same strategy every 10 years. Other strategies recommended by the expert panel 
were either less effective or cost more per year of life gained than the 
alternatives. Colonoscopy every 10 years was less effective than the combination 
of annual FOBT plus sigmoidoscopy every 5 years. However, a single colonoscopy 
at age 55 years achieves nearly half of the reduction in CRC mortality 
obtainable with colonoscopy every 10 years. Because of increased life expectancy 
among white women and increased cancer mortality among blacks, CRC screening was 
even more cost-effective in these groups than in white men.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for CRC, even in the setting of imperfect compliance, 
significantly reduces CRC mortality at costs comparable to other cancer 
screening procedures. However, compliance rates significantly affect the 
incremental CE ratios. In this model of CRC, 60% compliance with an every 5-year 
schedule of screening was roughly equivalent to 100% compliance with an every 
10-year schedule. Mathematical modeling used to inform clinical guidelines needs 
to take into account expected compliance rates. JAMA. 2000;284:1954-1961.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.15.1954
PMID: 11035892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Baillieres Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;14(2):171-9. doi: 
10.1053/beem.2000.0067.

Fractures in the elderly: epidemiology and demography.

De Laet CE(1), Pols HA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Osteoporosis and osteoporosis-related fractures are a major source of both 
morbidity and cost in the elderly, the fractures that are most commonly 
associated with osteoporosis being those of the hip, the distal forearm and the 
vertebrae, although it is believed that most other fractures occurring in the 
elderly are also related to osteoporosis. In this review, the incidence of all 
types of fracture is described based on the available literature, and the 
foreseeable trends resulting from demographic changes are discussed. Emphasis is 
given to the epidemiology of hip fracture since this is the most serious 
consequence of osteoporosis. Hip fractures occur all over the world, most 
currently occurring in Western countries, mainly Europe and the USA, but it is 
expected that there will be a large increase in the number of hip fractures in 
other countries because of demographic changes. The incidence of hip fractures 
increases exponentially with age, resulting in a 1-year incidence of 1% in women 
aged 80 in Western countries. Most hip fractures occur in women, but this is 
again partly due to demography, because of the longer life expectancy of women. 
Wrist fractures occur more often in women and do not show the same increase with 
age as hip fractures. The incidence reaches a plateau at age 60-70. Vertebral 
fractures show a modest increase with age and are again more common in women 
than men. The incidence of all other fractures increases modestly with age

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/beem.2000.0067
PMID: 11035900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2000 Sep 15;125(37):1095-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-7354.

[Infection thesis as explanation of the higher incidence of myocardial 
infarction in males].

[Article in German]

Bauer-Krylov E(1), Madeo M, Stille W.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum der Inneren Medizin/Infektiologie Klinikum der 
Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universität Frankfurt/Main.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-7354
PMID: 11036489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Recent Prog Horm Res. 2000;55:69-89; discussion 89-91.

Chronic hypersecretion of luteinizing hormone in transgenic mice disrupts both 
ovarian and pituitary function, with some effects modified by the genetic 
background.

Nilson JH(1), Abbud RA, Keri RA, Quirk CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-4965, USA.

When the pituitary or hypothalamus becomes resistant to steroid negative 
feedback, a vicious cycle ensues, resulting in chronic hypersecretion of 
luteinizing hormone (LH) from the pituitary and steroids from the ovaries. In 
women, LH hypersecretion is implicated in infertility, miscarriages, and 
development of granulosa cell tumors. Progress in defining the underlying 
mechanisms of LH toxicity, however, has been limited by the lack of well-defined 
animal models. To that end, we have developed a new transgenic mouse model 
(alpha-LHbetaCTP) wherein LH hypersecretion occurs chronically and results in 
several dire pathological outcomes. Chronic hypersecretion of LH was achieved by 
introducing a transgene containing a bovine alpha subunit promoter fused to the 
coding region of a chimeric LHbeta subunit. The alpha subunit promoter directs 
transgene expression only to gonadotropes. The LHbeta chimera contains the 
carboxyl-terminal peptide (CTP) of the human chorionic gonadotropin beta subunit 
linked to the carboxyl terminus of bovine LHbeta. This carboxyl extension 
extends the half-life of LH heterodimers that contain the chimeric beta subunit. 
In intact alpha-LHbetaCTP females, serum LH is elevated five- to ten-fold in 
comparison to nontransgenic littermates. Levels of testosterone (T) and 
estradiol (E2) also are elevated, with an overall increase in the T-to-E2 ratio. 
These transgenic females enter puberty precociously but are anovulatory and 
display a prolonged luteal phase. Anovulation reflects the absence of 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and the inability to produce a 
pre-ovulatory surge of LH. The ovaries are enlarged, with reduced numbers of 
primordial follicles and numerous, giant, hemorrhagic follicles. Despite the 
pathological appearance of the ovary, females can be superovulated and mated. 
Although pregnancy occurs, implantation is compromised due to defects in uterine 
receptivity. In addition, pregnancy fails at midgestation, reflecting a maternal 
defect presumably due to estrogen toxicity. When the transgene is in a CF-1 
background, all females develop granulosa cell tumors and pituitary hyperplasia 
by five months of age. They die shortly thereafter due to bladder atony and 
subsequent kidney failure. When the transgene is placed in other strains of 
mice, their ovaries develop a luteoma rather than a granulosa cell tumor and the 
pituitary develops pituitary hyperplasia followed by adenoma. In summary, 
alpha-LHbetaCTP mice provide a direct association between abnormal secretion of 
LH and development of a number of ovarian and pituitary pathological responses.

PMID: 11036934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Nov;51(9):1283-93. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00092-7.

Place, social exchange and health: proposed sociological framework.

Siegrist J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sociology, Heinrich Heine-University of Duesseldorf, 
Germany. Siegrist@uni-duesseldorf.de

A sociological framework is proposed to better understand how spatial 
characteristics translate into people's physical and psychosocial conditions 
that are relevant to their health. In particular, high susceptibility to poor 
health among specific adult population groups is analyzed in terms of exclusion 
from or inadequate participation in a society's structure of opportunities. 
Acquisition of, and agency through, core social roles, such as the work role, 
the family and marital role, and civic roles, are essential prerequisites for 
successful personal self-regulation in adult life, strengthening a sense of 
self-esteem, self-efficacy, and belonging (self-integration). It is argued that 
exclusion from, or loss of core social roles, threats to their continuity and 
confinement to non-reciprocal exchange impair personal self-regulation and 
trigger a state of 'social reward deficiency'. This state, in turn, elicits 
prolonged stressful experience, and it may reinforce a person's craving for 
stress-relieving, potentially addictive health-damaging behavior. This framework 
is applied to the explanation of the life expectancy gap between Western and 
Central/Eastern European countries. Although most of the epidemiological 
evidence reviewed in support of this approach originates from investigations 
that were conducted in western countries several results reported in the 
collection of articles published in this Special Issue of Social Science and 
Medicine are in line with the proposed framework.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00092-7
PMID: 11037217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Nov;51(9):1313-24. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00094-0.

Health lifestyles in Russia.

Cockerham WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-3350, 
USA. wcocker@uab.edu

Utilizing data from the nationwide Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey 
(RLMS), this paper analyzes health lifestyles in Russia. Heavy alcohol use and 
smoking, a high-fat diet, and lack of leisure-time exercise are the principal 
culprits in fostering high rates of heart disease and other causes of premature 
mortality. This is especially the situation for middle-age, working-class males 
whose mortality is greater than any other segment of society. This paper focuses 
on alcohol use as a particularly lethal component of male lifestyles and 
presents a theoretical argument, grounded in the work of Weber and especially 
Bourdieu, that poor health lifestyles practices are largely the outcome of 
structural conditions (life chances) rather than agency (life choices). Societal 
and group norms and routine practices can adversely affect longevity and this is 
the case for Russian male blue-collar workers in the middle period of their life 
course.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00094-0
PMID: 11037219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Nov;51(9):1405-20. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00105-2.

Eastern European transition and suicide mortality.

Mäkinen IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, University College of 
South Stockholm, Huddinge, Sweden. ilkka.makinen@sh.se

The current paper seeks to systematize the discussion on the causes of the 
changes in Eastern European countries' suicide mortality during the last 15 
years by analyzing the changes in relation to some common causes: alcohol 
consumption, economic changes, "general pathogenic social stress", political 
changes, and social disorganization. It is found that the developments in 
suicide have been very different in different countries, and that the same 
causes cannot apply to all of them. However, the relation between suicide 
mortality and social processes is obvious. A model consisting of the 
hypothetical general stress (as indicated by mortality/life expectancy), 
democratization, alcohol consumption, and social disorganization (with a 
period-dependent effect) predicted the percentual changes in the suicide rates 
in 16 out of the 28 Eastern Bloc countries in 1984-89 and 1989-94 fairly 
accurately, while it failed to do this for Albania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, 
and the Caucasian and Central Asian newly independent states. Most interesting 
were the strong roles played by changes in life expectancy, the causes of which 
are discussed, and the fact that economic change seemed to lack explanatory 
power in multiple analyses. The data are subject to many potential sources of 
error, the small number of units and the large multicollinearity between the 
independent variables may distort the results. Nevertheless, the results 
indicate that the changes in Eastern European suicide mortality, both decreases 
and increases, may be explained with the same set of variables. However, more 
than one factor is needed, and the multicollinearity will continue to pose 
problems.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00105-2
PMID: 11037226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2000 Aug;35(8):380-7. doi: 
10.1007/s001270050254.

Mortality among persons with a history as psychiatric inpatients with functional 
psychosis.

Hannerz H(1), Borgå P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Surveillance, National Institute of 
Occupational Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hh@ami.dk

BACKGROUND: An important aim in all psychiatric care should be a reduction of 
overall mortality. Information on mortality patterns in different types of 
psychiatric populations is vital for a successful design of treatment strategies 
and preventive programmes. The present study aims to describe mortality among 
persons with a history as psychiatric inpatients with functional psychosis.
METHODS: All psychiatric inpatients, 17,878 men and 23,256 women, registered in 
the Swedish National Hospital Discharge Registry between 1978 and 1982 with a 
functional psychosis (ICD-8 = 295-299) as principal diagnosis were followed for 
mortality during the time period 1983-85. Life tables were constructed and death 
rates for various types of causes of death were calculated.
RESULTS: Compared to the general population, the excess mortality in the study 
group caused a reduction in life expectancy of 22.1-27.9% (95% CI) among the men 
and 15.0-21.7% among the women. In the age group 2049 years, 62% of the excess 
mortality was caused by suicide. In the age group 50-89 years, only 8% of the 
excess was suicide, while 52% was caused by cardiovascular disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduction in mortality rates requires different strategies in 
different age groups. Even if the suicide rate were reduced to zero, it would 
only have a marginal influence on the highly elevated mortality among patients 
in upper middle age and among the elderly. Among the younger patients (<35 
years), on the other hand, practically all excess mortality was caused by 
suicide and accidents.

DOI: 10.1007/s001270050254
PMID: 11037308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. World J Surg. 2000 Nov;24(11):1402-8. doi: 10.1007/s002680010232.

Method for dissection of mesenteric metastases in mid-gut carcinoid tumors.

Ohrvall U(1), Eriksson B, Juhlin C, Karacagil S, Rastad J, Hellman P, Akerström 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, S-751 85 Uppsala, Sweden.

With adequate medical management the midgut carcinoid tumor generally is an 
indolent malignancy associated with substantial life expectancy and appreciable 
life quality, even in the presence of liver metastases and significant tumor 
burden. Abdominal complications may occur in this entity of carcinoids owing to 
entrapment of intestines and encasement of mesenteric vessels by mesenteric 
metastases and associated marked mesenteric fibrosis. This may be the cause of 
abdominal pain, disabling diarrhea, weight loss to the extent of malnutrition, 
and eventually the risk of death with acute or chronic intestinal obstruction or 
intestinal gangrene. Operative removal of the mesentericointestinal lesion is 
often indicated to prevent or treat these complications but may be technically 
difficult when mesenteric metastases extend in the vicinity of major vessels in 
the mesenteric root. At laparotomy 56 patients with advanced midgut carcinoids 
underwent removal of the mesenteric tumor with a method for preserving the 
mesenteric vessels. This was feasible by mobilizing and releasing the right 
colon and mesenteric root from posterior adhesions, identifying the mesenteric 
artery below the pancreas, and free-dissecting this artery on the tumor capsule 
in the mobilized mesentery. Dissection was successful even with tumors initially 
judged inoperable unless tumor growth completely surrounded the mesenteric 
vessels or extended retroperitoneally. One patient was subjected to distal 
intestinal artery bypass. Symptom relief was been substantial and often of long 
duration after mesenteric tumor removal in patients who prior to surgery often 
had threatening intestinal ischemia. Patients with advanced midgut carcinoids 
may benefit markedly from dissectional removal of mesenteric tumors, which 
(conceivably better than conventional wedge resection) preserves the length of 
the remaining intestine.

DOI: 10.1007/s002680010232
PMID: 11038214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. World J Surg. 2000 Nov;24(11):1437-41. doi: 10.1007/s002680010237.

Are patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I prone to premature death?

Dean PG(1), van Heerden JA, Farley DR, Thompson GB, Grant CS, Harmsen WS, 
Ilstrup DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, 200 First Street SW, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN-I) is an autosomal dominant disorder 
characterized by endocrinopathies involving the anterior pituitary gland, 
parathyroid glands, and pancreas. The long-term prognosis for patients affected 
with this disorder is uncertain. To better characterize this prognosis, we 
performed a retrospective review of all patients with MEN-I treated at a single 
institution during the period 1951-1997. A group of 233 patients served as the 
study population. Their records were analyzed for confirmation of diagnosis, 
treatments received, long-term survival, and cause of death. Altogether, 108 
eight male patients (46%) and 125 female patients (54%) were identified. At the 
conclusion of the study, 164 (70%) were alive and 69 (30%) were deceased, with a 
median follow-up for patients alive at last contact of 13.4 years (range < 1 
month to 54.3 years). The cause of death was reliably obtained in 60 patients. 
Of these patients, 17 (28%) died of causes related to MEN-I, most commonly 
metastatic islet cell tumors (10 patients). The remaining patients died of 
causes unrelated to MEN-I, most commonly coronary artery disease and 
nonendocrine malignancies (14% each). The overall 20-year survival of MEN-I 
patients was 64% (95% CI was 56-72%), and that of an age- and gender-matched 
upper Midwest population was 81% (p < 0.001). Patients with MEN-I appear to be 
at increased risk of premature death. Earlier diagnosis and treatment of 
potentially malignant pancreatic islet cell neoplasms may result in a decrease 
of this premature mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s002680010237
PMID: 11038219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2000 Oct;(379):55-67. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-200010000-00009.

Ceramic hip prostheses in young patients: a retrospective study of 74 patients.

Fenollosa J(1), Seminario P, Montijano C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Hospital Universitario Dr. 
Peset, Valencia, Spain.

Zones of osteolysis occur in mobilized and in well-fixed prostheses with the 
classic ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene-metal couple. However, since 
1981 with the use of the ceramic couple in cemented hip prostheses in young 
patients, osteolysis has not been observed. The prostheses in patients with a 
longer followup do not show signs of wear in the bearing or signs of bone lysis 
in the well-fixed prostheses. Cementless prostheses with the same type of 
ceramic bearing have been used since 1990 in patients with more than 30 years of 
life expectancy, in an effort to eliminate loosening at the cement-bone 
interface. The cementless prostheses performed well with spot welds visible 3 
months after the operation, which still are present at 7 years of followup. 
Lysis has not been observed behind the cup or around the stem. In the current 
series, head ruptures and accidents in the stem and neck junction produced by 
the modularity of the prostheses did not occur. The authors focus on the 
positive results shown by ceramic bearings and describe the results of 31 
cemented, five hybrid, and 58 uncemented prostheses with ceramic bearings in 
patients younger than 50 years of age.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-200010000-00009
PMID: 11039793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2000 Oct;(379):68-76. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-200010000-00010.

Alumina-on-alumina total hip prostheses in patients 40 years of age or younger.

Bizot P(1), Banallec L, Sedel L, Nizard R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hôpital Lariboisère, Paris, France.

To avoid the consequences of polyethylene wear in a high-risk population, 128 
alumina-on-alumina total hip arthroplasties have been done in 104 consecutive 
patients. The maximum age of patients was 40 years. The main preoperative 
diagnoses were osteonecrosis and sequellae of congenital hip dislocation (71% of 
the hips). The same titanium alloy cemented stem was implanted in all of the 
hips. Four types of alumina acetabular component fixations were used: a cemented 
plain alumina socket (41 hips), a screw-in ring with an alumina insert (22 
hips), a press-fit plain alumina socket (32 hips), and a press-fit titanium 
metal back with an alumina insert (33 hips). Eight patients (11 hips) died 
during the followup period. Sixteen revisions have been documented, 12 for 
acetabular aseptic loosening, three for bipolar loosening (two of which were 
septic), and one for unexplained pain. Eighty-eight hips in 74 patients have 
been followed up radiologically for 2 to 22 years. Wear was unmeasurable. Four 
additional sockets showed definite migration. The respective survival rates 
after 7 years were 94.1% for the cemented cup, 88.8% for the screw-in ring, 
95.1% for cementless press-fit plain alumina socket and 94.3% for the metal-back 
press-fit component. The 10-year survival rate was 90.4% for the cemented socket 
and 88.8% for the screw-in ring. The 15-year survival rate was 78.9% for the 
cemented socket. Grafting was the only prognostic factor, with a survival rate 
of 62.6% after 10 years for the hips with a bone graft and of 90.1% for hips 
without a graft. The alumina-on-alumina bearing surfaces seem to be a valuable 
alternative to the standard metal-on-polyethylene system for young patients. 
However, an improvement in socket fixation is required to lengthen the life span 
of the prosthesis to match the life expectancy of this demanding population.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-200010000-00010
PMID: 11039794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Adv Clin Chem. 2000;35:1-62. doi: 10.1016/s0065-2423(01)35014-x.

The biochemistry of aging.

Knight JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, USA.

Although philosophers and scientists have long been interested in the aging 
process, general interest in this fascinating and highly important topic was 
minimal before the 1960s. In recent decades, however, interest in aging has 
greatly accelerated, not only since the elderly form an ever-increasing 
percentage of the population, but because they utilize a significant proportion 
of the national expenditures. In addition, many people have come to the 
realization that one can now lead a very happy, active, and productive life well 
beyond the usual retirement age. Scientifically, aging is an extremely complex, 
multifactorial process, and numerous aging theories have been proposed; the most 
important of these are probably the genomic and free radical theories. Although 
it is abundantly clear that our genes influence aging and longevity, exactly how 
this takes place on a chemical level is only partially understood. For example, 
what kinds of genes are these, and what proteins do they control? Certainly they 
include, among others, those that regulate the processes of somatic maintenance 
and repair, such as the stress-response systems. The accelerated aging syndromes 
(i.e., Hutchinson-Gilford, Werner's, and Down's syndromes) are genetically 
controlled, and studies of them have decidedly increased our understanding of 
aging. In addition, C. elegans and D. melanogaster are important systems for 
studying aging. This is especially true for the former, in which the age-1 
mutant has been shown to greatly increase the life span over the wild-type 
strain. This genetic mutation results in increased activities of the 
antioxidative enzymes, Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and catalase. Thus, the 
genomic and free radical theories are closely linked. In addition, trisomy 21 
(Down's syndrome) is characterized by a significantly shortened life span; it is 
also plagued by increased oxidative stress which results in various free 
radical-related disturbances. Exactly how this extra chromosome results in an 
increased production of reactive oxygen species is, however, only partially 
understood. There is considerable additional indirect evidence supporting the 
free radical theory of aging. Not only are several major age-associated diseases 
clearly affected by increased oxidative stress (atherosclerosis, cancer, etc.), 
but the fact that there are numerous natural protective mechanisms to prevent 
oxyradical-induced cellular damage speaks loudly that this theory has a key role 
in aging [the presence of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione 
peroxidase, and glutathione reductase, among others; various important intrinsic 
(uric acid, bilirubin, -SH proteins, glutathione, etc.) and extrinsic (vitamins 
C, E, carotenoids, flavonoids, etc.) antioxidants; and metal chelating proteins 
to prevent Fenton and Haber-Weiss chemistry]. In addition, a major part of the 
free radical theory involves the damaging role of reactive oxygen species and 
various toxins on mitochondria. These lead to numerous mitochondrial DNA 
mutations which result in a progressive reduction in energy output, 
significantly below that needed in body tissues. This can result in various 
signs of aging, such as loss of memory, hearing, vision, and stamina. Oxidative 
stress also inactivates critical enzymes and other proteins. In addition to 
these factors, caloric restriction is the only known method that increases the 
life span of rodents; studies currently underway suggest that this also applies 
to primates, and presumably to humans. Certainly, oxidative stress plays an 
important role here, although other, as yet unknown, factors are also presumably 
involved. Exactly how the other major theories (i.e., immune, neuroendocrine, 
somatic mutation, error catastrophe) control aging is more difficult to define. 
The immune and neuroendocrine systems clearly deteriorate with age. (ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.1016/s0065-2423(01)35014-x
PMID: 11040957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2000 Jun;54 Suppl 3:S2-14. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1601019.

Demographic and nutritional trends among the elderly in developed and developing 
regions.

Solomons NW(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Studies of Sensory Impairment, Aging and Metabolism, Guatemala 
City, Guatemala. cessiam@guate.net

Aging for an individual and aging for a population are related but not the same. 
For an individual, aging first involves survival to more advanced years, which 
will inevitably be accompanied by progressive changes in the structure and 
function of somatic tissues due to a programmed failure of the organism 
maximally to invest in their maintenance. For a population, aging means an 
increase in the median age, a dual function of longer survival of individuals 
and a decrease in fertility. In the wilds of nature, and for all but the recent 
decades for the human species, survival beyond the peak reproductive years is 
rare. The hostility of natural selection has its greatest impact on the young 
and the old. Only captive fowl and beasts, domesticated animal species and Homo 
sapiens achieve long survival. For humans, life expectancy from birth and from 
any age thereafter is increasing; median ages of populations and the percentage 
of persons over 60 y are rising. The affluent developed countries led the way, 
but developing countries are closing the gap. As of about 1966, a majority of 
the world's elderly live in developing societies. The rarity of growing old left 
a dearth of knowledge in the domain of gerontological nutrition, both for lack 
of motivation to learn and lack of individuals and populations to study. The 
convening of this workshop signifies that the polarity of interest has shifted 
180 degrees. Social, economic, physiological and psychological changes with 
aging and growing older can both be influenced by diet and influence eating 
patterns and nutritional status. Many assumptions have been made about these 
changes, but only recently, with concerted metabolic studies of nutrient 
requirements in healthy elderly and carefully designed multi-center surveys of 
the health and nutrition of older segments of populations can a true portrait of 
the issues be delineated.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1601019
PMID: 11041069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Food Prot. 2000 Oct;63(10):1381-8. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-63.10.1381.

Extension of the shelf life of prawns (Penaeus japonicus) by vacuum packaging 
and high-pressure treatment.

López-Caballero ME(1), Pérez-Mateos M, Borderías JA, Montero P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnología de Carnes y Pescados, Instituto del Frío 
(CSIC), Ciudad Universitaria, Madrid, Spain.

The present study has investigated the application of high pressures (200 and 
400 MPa) in chilled prawn tails, both conventionally stored (air) and vacuum 
packaged. Vacuum packaging and high-pressure treatment did extend the shelf life 
of the prawn samples, although it did affect muscle color very slightly, giving 
it a whiter appearance. The viable shelf life of 1 week for the air-stored 
samples was extended to 21 days in the vacuum-packed samples, 28 days in the 
samples treated at 200 MPa, and 35 days in the samples pressurized at 400 MPa. 
Vacuum packaging checked the onset of blackening, whereas high-pressure 
treatment aggravated the problem. From a microbiological point of view, batches 
conventionally stored reached about 6 log CFU/g or even higher at 14 days. 
Similar figures were reached in total number of bacteria in vacuum-packed 
samples and in pressurized at 200-MPa samples at 21 days. When samples were 
pressurized at 400 MPa, total numbers of bacteria were below 5.5 log CFU/g at 35 
days of storage. Consequently, a combination of vacuum packaging and 
high-pressure treatment would appear to be beneficial in prolonging freshness 
and preventing spotting.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-63.10.1381
PMID: 11041138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Lancet. 2000 Sep 16;356(9234):968-74.

Surgery for colorectal cancer in elderly patients: a systematic review. 
Colorectal Cancer Collaborative Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Sep 16;356(9234):956.

BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of surgery for colorectal cancer depends on it 
being carried out safely, which allows most patients to return to productive 
lives, with an improved postoperative life expectancy, or at least one that is 
not diminished by the surgery. Because colorectal cancer is a major cause of 
morbidity and mortality in elderly people, we have examined how the outcomes of 
surgery in elderly patients differ from those in younger patients.
METHODS: We did a systematic review of published and aggregate data provided by 
investigators. Studies were identified by computerised and manual searches of 
published and unpublished reports, scanning references, and contacting 
investigators. Within each study, outcomes for patients aged 65-74 years, 75-84 
years, and 85+ years were expressed in relation to those aged less than 65 
years.
FINDINGS: From 28 independent studies, and a total of 34,194 patients, we found 
that elderly patients had an increased frequency of comorbid conditions, were 
more likely to present with later-stage disease and undergo emergency surgery, 
and less likely to have curative surgery than younger patients. The incidence of 
postoperative morbidity and mortality increased progressively with advancing 
age. Overall survival was reduced in elderly patients, but for cancer specific 
survival age-related differences were much less striking.
INTERPRETATION: The relation between age and outcomes from colorectal cancer 
surgery is complex and may be confounded by differences in stage at 
presentation, tumour site, pre-existing comorbidities, and type of treatment 
received. However, selected elderly patients benefit from surgery since a large 
proportion survive for 2 or more years, irrespective of their age.

PMID: 11041397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Lancet. 2000 Sep 16;356(9234):1010. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72633-7.

Researchers ask whether Dutch health care is inferior.

Weber W.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72633-7
PMID: 11041412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2000 Oct;11(9):1143-52. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61355-4.

Pulmonary embolism from pulse-spray pharmacomechanical thrombolysis of clotted 
hemodialysis grafts: urokinase versus heparinized saline.

Kinney TB(1), Valji K, Rose SC, Yeung DD, Oglevie SB, Roberts AC, Ward DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California San Diego Medical Center, 
USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the frequency and extent of pulmonary embolism (PE) 
occurring during pulse-spray pharmacomechanical thrombolysis (PSPMT) of clotted 
hemodialysis grafts with use of either urokinase (UK) or heparinized saline 
(HS). Postintervention primary patency and complication rates were compared for 
each method of thrombolysis.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Twenty-seven patients were enrolled in this prospective, 
randomized, double-blind study evaluating PE with two PSPMT agents. The doses of 
heparin were similar between groups. The only variable was that one group of 
patients received UK and the other received HS. In two cases, the venous 
anastomosis could not be crossed. Eleven patients were treated with UK and 14 
with HS. Nuclear medicine perfusion lung scans were performed before treatment 
and after graft declotting procedures. Lung perfusion was quantified to 10% of a 
pulmonary segment (0 = normal perfusion, 1 = segmental perfusion defect), with 
nine segments counted for each lung.
RESULTS: Baseline nuclear medicine perfusion lung scan results were abnormal (> 
or = 20% segmental perfusion defect) in 19 patients (70.4%). New PE (one or more 
pulmonary segments) occurred in two patients treated with UK (18.2%) and nine 
patients treated with HS (64.3%; P = .04). All cases of PE were asymptomatic. 
Quantitative global pulmonary perfusion analyses revealed that treatment with UK 
improved flow to 0.2 +/- 2.0 pulmonary segments, whereas treatment with HS 
decreased perfusion to 1.0 +/- 1.7 segments (P = .16, NS). Although 
postintervention primary patency rates were similar according to life-table 
analysis (P = .76, NS), complication rates were higher with use of HS (n = 4, 
28.6%) than with use of UK (n = 2, 18.2%) (P = .6, NS).
CONCLUSIONS: All PE were asymptomatic during PSPMT, but treatment with UK 
reduced the rate of PE and tended to result in smaller defects in lung scan 
results. Most patients undergoing hemodialysis have abnormal baseline perfusion 
scan results, but PSPMT with UK improved many of them. The postintervention 
primary patency rates were similar between groups, but complications were more 
frequent after treatment with HS.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61355-4
PMID: 11041470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Obstet Gynecol. 2000 Nov;96(5 Pt 1):645-52. doi:
10.1016/s0029-7844(00)00979-0.

Setting the target for a better cervical screening test: characteristics of a 
cost-effective test for cervical neoplasia screening.

Myers ER(1), McCrory DC, Subramanian S, McCall N, Nanda K, Datta S, Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Center for Clinical Health Policy 
Research-Evidence-Based Practice Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA. 
myers008@mc.duke.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the potential effects on costs and outcomes of changes 
in sensitivity and specificity with new screening methods for cervical cancer.
METHODS: Using a Markov model of the natural history of cervical cancer, we 
estimated the effects of sensitivity, specificity, and screening frequency on 
cost-effectiveness. Our estimates of conventional Papanicolaou test sensitivity 
of 51% and specificity of 97% were obtained from a meta-analysis. We estimated 
the effect of reducing false-negative rates from 40-90% and increasing 
false-positive rates by up to 20%, independently and jointly. We varied the 
marginal cost of improving sensitivity from $0 to $15.
RESULTS: When specificity was held constant, increasing sensitivity of the 
Papanicolaou test increased life expectancy and costs. When sensitivity was held 
constant, decreasing specificity of the Papanicolaou test increased costs, an 
effect that was more dramatic at more frequent intervals. Decreased specificity 
had a substantial effect on cost-effectiveness estimates of improved 
Papanicolaou test sensitivity. Most of those effects are related to the cost of 
evaluation and treatment of low-grade lesions.
CONCLUSION: Policies or technologies that increased sensitivity of cervical 
cytologic screening increased overall costs, even if the cost of the technology 
was identical to that of conventional Papanicolaou smears. These effects appear 
to be caused by relatively high prevalence of low-grade lesions and are 
magnified at frequent screening intervals. Efficient cervical cancer screening 
requires methods with greater ability to detect lesions that are most likely to 
become cancerous.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(00)00979-0
PMID: 11042294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Obstet Gynecol. 2000 Nov;96(5 Pt 1):757-62. doi:
10.1016/s0029-7844(00)01039-5.

Antepartum or postpartum isoniazid treatment of latent tuberculosis infection.

Boggess KA(1), Myers ER, Hamilton CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina, USA. kboggess@med.unc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare health outcomes and costs of different strategies for 
treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in pregnancy.
METHODS: Using a Markov decision-analysis model, the following three strategies 
were evaluated for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in pregnancy, 
defined as positive tuberculin skin reaction of 10 mm or greater and negative 
chest radiograph: no treatment, antepartum isoniazid administration, in which 
women were given 300 mg of isoniazid with pyridoxine beginning at 20 weeks' 
gestation for 6 months; and postpartum isoniazid, in which women were given 
isoniazid and pyridoxine for 6 months after delivery. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed for a wide range of probability and cost estimates, and considered 
discount rates.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, the fewest cases of tuberculosis within 
the cohort occurred with antepartum treatment (1400 per 100,000) compared with 
no treatment (3300 per 100,000) or postpartum treatment (1800 per 100,000). 
Antepartum treatment resulted in a marginal increase in life expectancy due to 
the prevented cases of tuberculosis, despite more cases of isoniazid-related 
hepatitis and deaths, compared with no treatment or postpartum treatment. 
Antepartum treatment was the least expensive. Only if the case-fatality rate for 
tuberculosis was tenfold lower than the base-case and the risk of fatal 
hepatitis tenfold higher did antepartum treatment become the least advantageous 
strategy.
CONCLUSION: Rather than delaying treatment until postpartum, consideration for 
antepartum treatment of latent tuberculosis during pregnancy should be given. If 
isoniazid is not administered antepartum, then efforts to improve postpartum 
compliance should be instituted, as either antepartum or postpartum treatment is 
better than no treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(00)01039-5
PMID: 11042314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2000 Nov;113(3):435-50. doi: 
10.1002/1096-8644(200011)113:3<435::AID-AJPA11>3.0.CO;2-O.

Grandmother hypothesis and primate life histories.

Alvarez HP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, 
USA. alvarez@anthro.utah.edu

The adaptive significance of midlife menopause in human females has long engaged 
the attention of evolutionary anthropologists. In spite of extensive debate, the 
problem has only recently been examined in the context of primate life 
histories. Here I extend those investigations by comparing life history traits 
in 16 primate species to test predictions generated from life history theory. In 
humans, late ages of maturity and higher than expected birth rates are 
systematically associated with extended postmenopausal longevity. Links among 
these adjustments on the primate pattern can explain how selection could slow 
somatic senescence without favoring extension of the fertile span. This 
conclusion is consistent with the observation that our fertile spans are similar 
to those of other pongids. The shape of the argument herein demonstrates the 
utility of life history theory for solving problems of adaptive evolution in 
female life history traits, with consequences for broader arguments regarding 
human evolution.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-8644(200011)113:3<435::AID-AJPA11>3.0.CO;2-O
PMID: 11042542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Orthop Clin North Am. 2000 Oct;31(4):611-21. doi:
10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70179-6.

Management of metastatic disease of the spine.

Wetzel FT(1), Phillips FM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Orthopaedic Surgery and Rehabilitation, University of Chicago 
Spine Center, Ilinois, USA.

Accurate assessment of spinal cord stability, pain, and neurologic function is 
essential to any rational approach to metastatic disease of the spine. The 
Harrington classification is useful in terms of selecting treatment options and 
planning appropriate interventional and adjuvant therapy. For milder cases, with 
bone involvement in the absence of structural deformity, adjuvant therapy 
usually is appropriate. In cases of bone collapse, with or without neurologic 
compromise, surgical consideration should be given to patients with appropriate 
life expectancy. Surgical principles revolve around anterior decompression and 
reconstruction, for anatomic and biomechanical reasons. More widespread use of 
anterior instrumentation may obviate the need for subsequent posterior 
stabilization, but additional long-term study is required in this area.

DOI: 10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70179-6
PMID: 11043100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Chirurg. 2000 Sep;71(9):1144-51. doi: 10.1007/s001040051192.

[Tumor surgery of the upper cervical spine].

[Article in German]

Vieweg U(1), Rao G, Stoffel J, Meyer B.

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Universitätsklinik, Bonn. Vieweg@boch.med.uni-jena.de

Our own series of tumors of the upper cervical spine was analyzed 
retrospectively. The standard treatment strategies were reevaluated. A total of 
nine patients (mean age 61 years, metastasis 4, plasmocytoma 3, chordoma 1, 
histiocytosis 1) were treated between 1/92 and 2/99. A total of 12 operations 
were carried out. One-step procedures (6): Three extraoral, one transoral, one 
dorsal and in one case combined dorsal and extraoral tumor removal were 
performed. Three dorsal occipitocervical or atlantoaxial stabilizations, one 
ventral plating and two combined ventral plating plus dorsal three-point 
fixations, and four vertebral body replacements were carried out. Two-step 
procedures (3): three extraoral tumor removals with ventral plating plus dorsal 
three-point fixation, in combination with vertebral body replacement in two 
cases. The neurological status and the quality of life (Karnofsky performance 
status, pain levels) were analyzed preoperatively and at the follow-up 
outpatient examinations (mean follow-up: 18 months). Flexion-extension 
radiographs were performed at the follow-up. There was no operative mortality. 
The transient morbidity was 11%. The operative intervention improved the quality 
of life in all patients. Three patients died within 27 months of operation. 
Tumor resection at the upper cervical spine using individually modified surgical 
strategies over an approach corresponding to the tumor location, stabilization 
and vertebral body replacement increases significantly the time of survival and 
quality of life with an acceptable surgical risk for complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040051192
PMID: 11043134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Am J Surg. 2000 Aug;180(2):100-3. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00426-8.

Axillofemoral bypass for aortoiliac occlusive disease.

Martin D(1), Katz SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Huntington Memorial Hospital, Pasadena, Division of 
Vascular Surgery, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Pasadena, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although aortoiliac disease remains a common cause of lower 
extremity ischemia, the efficacy of axillofemoral bypass in this setting remains 
controversial. This report summarizes our institutional experience with 
axillofemoral bypass.
METHODS: A retrospective review of consecutive axillofemoral bypass grafts was 
performed at a single institution between 1984 and 1997. Only patients 
presenting with chronic aortoiliac occlusive disease were included. Patient 
demographics, risk factors, indications for surgery and outcomes were recorded. 
Survival curves for primary patency were plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method 
according to the standards set by the Society of Vascular Surgery-International 
Society for Cardiovascular Surgery. Comparisons between groups were made using 
the log rank method. Statistical significance was assumed at P values <0.05.
RESULTS: Sixty patients underwent axillofemoral bypass grafting of which 53 were 
bifemoral and 8 unifemoral. Forty-seven procedures were performed for limb 
salvage. Primary patency rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were 86%, 72%, and 63%, 
respectively. Thirty-day mortality rate was 4.9%. Sixty percent of graft 
occlusions occurred in the femorofemoral limb with continued patency of the 
axillofemoral limb. Risk factors, type of procedure and superficial femoral 
artery patency had no statistically significant effect on long-term patency.
CONCLUSIONS: In the setting of diffuse, chronic aortoiliac occlusive disease, 
long-term patency rates of axillofemoral grafts approach those of aortobifemoral 
bypass and exceed those quoted for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, with 
results that are highly reproducible. Axillofemoral bypass is an excellent 
option in those patients at prohibitive risk for direct aortic reconstruction or 
those with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00426-8
PMID: 11044521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Transplantation. 2000 Oct 15;70(7):1121-7. doi: 
10.1097/00007890-200010150-00027.

Estimating the benefits of solitary pancreas transplantation in nonuremic 
patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus: a theoretical analysis.

Kiberd BA(1), Larson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The goal of early pancreas transplantation in type 1 diabetes 
mellitus is to achieve euglycemia and thereby prevent the renal, retinal, and 
vascular complications of this disease. The purpose of this analysis was to 
examine the conditions and assumptions that would make early solitary pancreas a 
viable therapeutic option.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to compare outcomes for patients with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus and early overt nephropathy assigned to either standard 
insulin therapy or solitary pancreas transplantation. Probabilities for 
development of end stage renal disease (ESRD), blindness, mortality, and direct 
health care costs were taken from the literature. Utility scores for the 
relevant health states were determined by the standard gamble method on 16 type 
1 diabetic patients suitable for pancreas transplantation.
RESULTS: Assuming a baseline graft life expectancy for the pancreas of 10 years, 
early pancreas transplantation could provide 0.42 more life years and 2.2 more 
quality adjusted life years (discounted at 3%) to patients above standard 
insulin therapy. The model was sensitive to estimates of pancreas graft life 
expectancy (<8 years being inadequate to extend patient life), timing of 
pancreas transplantation with respect to rate of progression to ESRD, and drug 
nephrotoxicity rates. The incremental costs (charges) for early pancreas 
transplantation over standard therapy were estimated to be modestly high (about 
$56,600/quality adjusted life year for the baseline case). Pancreas transplant 
costs were also a very sensitive parameter in the cost utility analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The success of early solitary pancreas transplantation may well be 
at the stage to consider a trial in selected type 1 diabetic patients at risk 
for renal and retinal disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-200010150-00027
PMID: 11045657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Scand J Public Health. 2000 Sep;28(3):194-9.

Socioeconomic differences in health expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen O, Denmark. hbh@dike.dk

BACKGROUND: Social differences in mortality rates reported in Denmark gave rise 
to the present study of health expectancy in different socioeconomic groups.
METHODS: Data on health status and occupation were derived from Health Interview 
Surveys. Information on occupation and deaths is register data. Health 
expectancy in each socioeconomic group was calculated using Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: Among 30-year-old men, high-level salaried employees had the longest 
expected lifetime in perceived good health, 41 years, which amounts to 89% of 
life expectancy, compared to 34 years (73%) for farmers, 32 years (73%) for 
unskilled workers, and 19 years (56%) for economically inactive men. Expected 
lifetime in perceived good health for high-level salaried female employees from 
age 30 was 46 years (91% of life expectancy). The lowest was found for assisting 
spouses, 36 years (71%) and economically inactive women, 25 years (56%). Large 
differences were also found when data on long-standing illness were used.
CONCLUSION: The differences between socioeconomic groups are greater for health 
expectancy than for life expectancy.

PMID: 11045751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Morphologie. 2000 Jun;84(265):31-8.

Classical cadherins in urological cancers.

Giroldi LA(1), Shimazui T, Schalken JA, Yamasaki H, Bringuier PP.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Decreased E-cadherin expression assessed by immunohistochemistry correlates with 
poor survival of bladder and prostate cancer patients. The clinical usefulness 
of this parameter should therefore be evaluated in a large scale prospective 
study. In proximal kidney tubule and in its derived tumours cadherin-6 seems to 
take over E-cadherin function. Impaired E-cadherin function leads to increased 
invasive capacity of the cells. It has been shown that defective function can 
result from several mechanisms: mutation of the gene, alteration of 
transcription, post translational modifications or changes in the interaction of 
E-cadherin with cytoskeleton anchoring proteins: the catenins. A major mechanism 
leading to decreased E-cadherin expression in tumours lies in decreased 
transcription of the gene. Hence, a better understanding of the regulation of 
E-cadherin transcription might open avenues for therapy by restoring a normal 
expression.

PMID: 11048296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Practitioner. 2000 Sep;244(1614):728, 733-6.

Key developments in men's health.

Kirby M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hertfordshire Primary Care Research Network (HertNet).

Comment in
    Practitioner. 2000 Nov;244(1616):994.

PMID: 11048369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Practitioner. 2000 Sep;244(1614):750, 754-6, 758 passim.

A rational approach to prostate cancer.

Kirk D(1).

Author information:
(1)Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow.

PMID: 11048371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Int J Biometeorol. 2000 Sep;44(3):148-56. doi: 10.1007/s004840000051.

Atmospheric control of Aedes aegypti populations in Buenos Aires (Argentina) and 
its variability.

de Garín AB(1), Bejarán RA, Carbajo AE, de Casas SC, Schweigmann NJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciencias de la Atmósfera, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Piso, 
Argentina. garin@at1.fcen.uba.ar

The mosquito Aedes aegypti is the main urban vector responsible for the 
transmission of dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever. The city of Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, is located at the southern end of the world distribution of 
the species. The population abundance of Ae. aegypti is mainly regulated by 
environmental factors. We calculated the potential number of times that a female 
