could lay eggs during its mean life expectancy, based on potential egg 
production and daily meteorological records. The model considers those variables 
implying physical hazard to the survival of Ae. aegypti, mosquito flying 
activity and oviposition. The results, obtained after calibration and validation 
of the model with field observations, show significant correlation (P<0.001) for 
different lags depending on the life stage. From these results, more favorable 
atmospheric conditions for Ae. aegypti reproduction (linked to the urban 
climatic change) can be observed. The climatic variability in the last decade 
resembles conditions at the end of 19th century.

DOI: 10.1007/s004840000051
PMID: 11049004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Arzneimittelforschung. 2000 Sep;50(9):795-801. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1300291.

Influence of the onion as an essential ingredient of the Mediterranean diet on 
arterial blood pressure and blood fluidity.

Kalus U(1), Pindur G, Jung F, Mayer B, Radtke H, Bachmann K, Mrowietz C, 
Koscielny J, Kiesewetter H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Fakultät, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Institut für 
Transfusionsmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Charité, Germany.

Mediterranean diet has got a favourable effect on life expectancy. One of the 
crucial components of the diet are onions. In an open and a randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over phase-I study a spontaneous 
pharmacological effect 5 h after administration of an onion-olive-oil maceration 
capsule formulation on arterial blood pressure could be demonstrated in 
apparently healthy subjects. In addition to a decrease in arterial blood 
pressure, a significant reduction in plasma viscosity and haematocrit were 
observed. These results are indicating a vasodilative effect of the 
onion-olive-oil-maceration product. The stickiness of the platelets was reduced. 
The effects were stronger in subjects with reduced blood fluidity compared to 
those subjects with normal rheological parameters.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300291
PMID: 11050695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Risk Anal. 2000 Aug;20(4):529-42. doi: 10.1111/0272-4332.204050.

Use of quality-adjusted life year weights with dose-response models for public 
health decisions: a case study of the risks and benefits of fish consumption.

Ponce RA(1), Bartell SM, Wong EY, LaFlamme D, Carrington C, Lee RC, Patrick DL, 
Faustman EM, Bolger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle 
98105-6099, USA. rponce@u.washington.edu

Risks associated with toxicants in food are often controlled by exposure 
reduction. When exposure recommendations are developed for foods with both 
harmful and beneficial qualities, however, they must balance the associated 
risks and benefits to maximize public health. Although quantitative methods are 
commonly used to evaluate health risks, such methods have not been generally 
applied to evaluating the health benefits associated with environmental 
exposures. A quantitative method for risk-benefit analysis is presented that 
allows for consideration of diverse health endpoints that differ in their impact 
(i.e., duration and severity) using dose-response modeling weighted by 
quality-adjusted life years saved. To demonstrate the usefulness of this method, 
the risks and benefits of fish consumption are evaluated using a single health 
risk and health benefit endpoint. Benefits are defined as the decrease in 
myocardial infarction mortality resulting from fish consumption, and risks are 
defined as the increase in neurodevelopmental delay (i.e., talking) resulting 
from prenatal methylmercury exposure. Fish consumption rates are based on 
information from Washington State. Using the proposed framework, the net health 
impact of eating fish is estimated in either a whole population or a population 
consisting of women of childbearing age and their children. It is demonstrated 
that across a range of fish methylmercury concentrations (0-1 ppm) and intake 
levels (0-25 g/day), individuals would have to weight the neurodevelopmental 
effects 6 times more (in the whole population) or 250 times less (among women of 
child-bearing age and their children) than the myocardial infarction benefits in 
order to be ambivalent about whether or not to consume fish. These methods can 
be generalized to evaluate the merits of other public health and risk management 
programs that involve trade-offs between risks and benefits.

DOI: 10.1111/0272-4332.204050
PMID: 11051076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Clin Cancer Res. 2000 Oct;6(10):3885-94.

A phase I and pharmacologic evaluation of the DNA intercalator CI-958 in 
patients with advanced solid tumors.

Dees EC(1), Whitfield LR, Grove WR, Rummel S, Grochow LB, Donehower RC.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore Maryland 21287, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2000 Oct;6(10):3801-2.

5-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino]-2-[2-(diethylamino)ethyl]-2H-[1]benzothiopyra 
no[4,3,2-cd]-indazol-8-ol trihydrochloride (CI-958) is the most active member of 
a new class of DNA intercalating compounds, the benzothiopyranoindazoles. 
Because of its broad spectrum and high degree of activity as well as a favorable 
toxicity profile in preclinical models, CI-958 was chosen for further 
development. The Phase I study described here was undertaken to determine the 
toxicity profile, maximum tolerated dose, and pharmacokinetics of CI-958 given 
as an i.v. infusion every 21 days. Adult patients with advanced refractory solid 
tumors who had adequate renal, hepatic, and hematological function, life 
expectancy, and performance status were eligible for this study. Written 
informed consent was obtained from all patients. Patients received a 1- or 2-h 
infusion of CI-958 at 21-day intervals. The starting dose was 5.2 mg/m2, and at 
least three patients were evaluated at each dose level before proceeding to a 
new dose level. A pharmacokinetically guided dose escalation design was used 
until reaching a predetermined target area under the plasma concentration versus 
time curve (AUC), after which a modified Fibonacci scheme was used. Forty-four 
patients (21 men and 23 women; median age, 59 years) received 162 courses of 
CI-958. Neutropenia and hepatorenal toxicity were the dose-limiting toxicities, 
which defined the maximum tolerated dose of CI-958 to be 875 mg/m2 when given as 
a 2-h infusion every 21 days. There were no tumor responses. Two patients had 
stable disease for >250 days. The recommended Phase II dose is 560 mg/m2 for 
patients with significant prior chemotherapy and 700 mg/m2 for patients with 
minimal prior chemotherapy. Pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma and urine 
concentration-time data from each patient was performed. At the recommended 
Phase II dose of 700 mg/m2, mean CI-958 clearance was 370 ml/min/m2, mean AUC 
was 33800 ng-h/ml, and mean terminal half-life (t1/2) was 15.5 days. The 
clearance was similar at all doses, and plasma CI-958 AUC increased 
proportionally with dose, consistent with linear pharmacokinetics. The 
percentage reduction in absolute neutrophil count from baseline was well 
predicted by AUC using a simple Emax model. The pharmacokinetically guided dose 
escalation saved five to six dose levels in reaching the maximum tolerated dose 
compared with a standard dose escalation scheme. This may represent the most 
successful application to date of this dose escalation technique.

PMID: 11051234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Ceylon Med J. 2000 Jun;45(2):52-4. doi: 10.4038/cmj.v45i2.7999.

Ageing and the health sector in Sri Lanka.

Abeykoon AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Division, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka.

DOI: 10.4038/cmj.v45i2.7999
PMID: 11051699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2000 Mar;6(3):123-30. doi: 10.12968/ijpn.2000.6.3.8939.

Rehabilitation and specialist palliative care.

Hopkins KF(1), Tookman AJ.

Author information:
(1)Edenhall Marie Curie Centre, North London, UK.

Enabling individuals to achieve their maximum potential and quality of life 
following a diagnosis of advanced cancer, has long been a stated aim of 
palliative care. Increased life expectancy and the introduction of specialist 
palliative care to patients at an earlier stage of their illness presents 
professionals in the specialty with new challenges in meeting the need for 
rehabilitative care. This article examines some of the recent developments 
affecting the provision of rehabilitative care and describes one specialist 
palliative care unit's response to the challenge, highlighting the role of a 
nurse-led clinic within the service framework.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2000.6.3.8939
PMID: 11051948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Cytokine. 2000 Nov;12(11):1702-11. doi: 10.1006/cyto.2000.0770.

A comparison of biodistribution of liposomal and soluble IL-2 by a new method 
based on time-resolved fluorometry of europium.

Neville ME(1), Richau KW, Boni LT, Pflug LE, Robb RJ, Popescu MC.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Department, Biomira USA Inc, Cranbury, NJ, USA.

A novel method was developed to determine the pharmacokinetics and 
biodistribution of cytokines and lymphokines based on time-resolved fluorometry 
(TRF) of europium (Eu). The comparison of two formulations of IL-2 was used to 
illustrate the sensitivity and applicability of this method as well as to extend 
the information on the pharmacokinetics of liposomal IL-2 and soluble IL-2. The 
blood kinetics and biodistribution of liposomal and soluble IL-2 in lymphoid 
organs and kidneys as measured by TRF were similar to those determined by the 
radioisotopic method. In both instances, the formulation of IL-2 into liposomes 
increased its serum half-life and accumulation in reticuloendothelial and 
lymphoid organs. The increased sensitivity of the Eu/TRF method permitted the 
extension of observational time points and the analysis of biodistribution in 
organs such as lymph nodes and bone marrow. These results suggest that 
Eu-labelled proteins in conjunction with TRF offer a suitable alternative to 
radiolabelled proteins for pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution studies in 
animals. This method offers distinct advantages over traditional techniques 
employing radioistopes since it has greater sensitivity, no half-life 
limitations and no radioactive or hazardous waste disposal.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/cyto.2000.0770
PMID: 11052822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Eur Heart J. 2000 Nov;21(22):1833-40. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2318.

Trends in case-fatality in 117 718 patients admitted with acute myocardial 
infarction in Scotland.

Capewell S(1), Livingston BM, MacIntyre K, Chalmers JW, Boyd J, Finlayson A, 
Redpath A, Pell JP, Evans CJ, McMurray JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2001 Jun;22(12):979-80.

OBJECTIVES: To analyse short- and long-term case-fatality trends following 
admission to hospital with a first acute myocardial infarction, in men and women 
between 1986 and 1995, after adjusting for risk factors known to influence 
survival.
DESIGN: A Scottish-wide retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: The Linked Scottish Morbidity Record Database was analysed. This 
contains accurate data on all hospital admissions since 1981, for the Scottish 
population of 5.1 million. It is linked to the Registrar General's death 
certificate data.
SUBJECTS: All 117 718 patients admitted to Scottish hospitals with a principal 
diagnosis of first acute myocardial infarction (ICD-9 code 410) between 1986 and 
1995.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcome was death, both in and out of hospital, from 
any cause, at 30 days, 1 year, 5 and 10 years.
RESULTS: Overall case-fatality following hospital admission with acute 
myocardial infarction was 22. 2%, 31.4%, 51.1% and 64.0% at 1 month, 1 year, 5 
and 10 years, respectively. Multivariate analyses identified statistically 
significant independent prognostic factors. Thirty day mortality increased 
twofold for each decade of increasing age, and increased with any prior 
admission to hospital. When comparing the most deprived category to that of the 
most affluent, men had a 10% increased mortality (P<0.01), whilst women had an 
increased mortality of 4% (not significant). After adjustment for age, sex, 
deprivation and prior admission to hospital, case-fatality rates fell 
significantly between 1986 and 1995. Short-term case-fatality fell by 46% in men 
(27% in women) and long-term by 34% in men (30% in women) (both P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Population-based case-fatality rates in Scotland have fallen 
dramatically since 1986, particularly in men. The increasing survival in 
patients admitted to hospital suggests that the trial-based efficacy of modern 
therapies is now translating into population-based effectiveness. However, an 
individual's life expectancy still halves after a diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction. Of the variables that we could examine, age was the most powerful 
predictor of prognosis.

Copyright 2000 The European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2318
PMID: 11052855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Ann Rheum Dis. 2000 Nov;59(11):892-7. doi: 10.1136/ard.59.11.892.

Value of the time trade off method for measuring utilities in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Tijhuis GJ(1), Jansen SJ, Stiggelbout AM, Zwinderman AH, Hazes JM, Vliet 
Vlieland TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. gjtijhuis@rheumatology.azl.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the feasibility, reliability, and validity of the time 
trade off (TTO) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: The TTO was applied in 194 patients with RA with increasing difficulty 
in performing activities of daily living. The test-retest reliability was 
determined in 35 of these patients and was calculated by the intraclass 
correlation coefficient (ICC). Construct validity was evaluated with the 
following sets of variables: measures of utility (rating scale), quality of life 
(RAND 36 item Health Status Survey (RAND-36) and RAQoL), functional status 
(Health Assessment Questionnaire, grip strength, and walk test), and disease 
activity (doctor's global assessment, disease activity score, pain, and morning 
stiffness).
RESULTS: Ten patients (5%) did not complete the TTO. The median value of the TTO 
was 0.77 (range 0.03-1. 0). The test-retest ICC of the TTO was 0.85 (p<0.001). 
Construct validity testing of the TTO showed poor to moderate correlations 
(Spearman's r(s) between 0.19 and 0.36, p<0.01) with all outcome measures except 
for the subscale role limitation (physical problem) of the RAND-36, the walk 
test, the doctor's global assessment of disease activity, and morning stiffness. 
Multiple regression analysis showed that only 17% of the variance of the TTO 
scores could be explained.
CONCLUSIONS: The TTO method appeared to be feasible and reliable in patients 
with RA. The poor to moderate correlations of the TTO with measures of quality 
of life, functional ability, and disease activity suggest that the TTO considers 
additional attributes of health status. This may have implications for the 
application of the TTO in clinical trials in patients with RA.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.59.11.892
PMCID: PMC1753018
PMID: 11053068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Exp Gerontol. 2000 Sep;35(6-7):671-6. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00146-7.

Metabolic mechanisms of yeast ageing.

Jazwinski SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and Department of Family 
Medicine, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA 
70112, USA. sjazwi@lsuhsc.edu

The genetic analysis of ageing of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae points to 
several processes important in determining life span. Among these, metabolic 
control plays a leading role. An examination of the molecular mechanisms 
underlying metabolic control of longevity has revealed two separate pathways. 
The retrograde response signals mitochondrial dysfunction to the nucleus 
resulting in gene regulatory changes that compensate. Nutritional status also 
modulates life span, adjusting metabolism to efficiently utilize energy 
resources, in a response that closely resembles the caloric restriction paradigm 
described in rodents. Although the retrograde response and caloric restriction 
are distinct pathways of life span extension, there appears to be some overlap 
of the longevity effectors under their control.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00146-7
PMID: 11053656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Tumour Biol. 2001 Jan-Feb;22(1):27-35. doi: 10.1159/000030152.

Comparison of Cyfra 21-1 and SCC assays in head and neck tumours.

Banal A(1), Hacene K, Berthelot-Ruff E, Mahé E, Fontana X, Pichon MF.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Oto-Rhino-Laryngologie, Centre René Huguenin de Lutte Contre le 
Cancer, Saint-Cloud, France.

Comment in
    Tumour Biol. 2001 Jan-Feb;22(1):1-3.

Patients with head and neck tumours (HNT) have a high risk of early locoregional 
relapse that is difficult to diagnose. This study evaluated the usefulness of 
the serum Cyfra 21-1 assay compared to squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC) 
assay for monitoring such patients. Three hundred and twelve HNT patients, 
including 204 newly diagnosed patients, were followed up for a median of 446 
days with serial serum assays for SCC and Cyfra 21-1. Untreated patients showed 
SCC and Cyfra 21-1 serum levels correlated with each other: concentration was 
correlated to clinical stage, tumour size (as T1 + T2 vs. T3 + T4) and nodal 
status. Cyfra 21-1, but not SCC, was related to the presence of metastases and 
the primary tumour site, with a univariate prognostic value for disease-free 
survival (p = 0.015). Cox's regression analysis showed that only Cyfra 21-1 was 
associated with a risk of relapse (p = 0.027). The random coefficient growth 
curve model applied to serial SCC and Cyfra 21-1 measurements of 111 patients 
showed that only Cyfra 21-1 exhibited a significant difference between patients 
with and without relapses. We found Cyfra 21-1 to be more closely related to 
initial clinical data and disease evolution than SCC, and therefore propose the 
use of Cyfra 21-1 for monitoring head and neck cancers.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000030152
PMID: 11054024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Tumour Biol. 2001 Jan-Feb;22(1):54-8. doi: 10.1159/000030147.

Comparison of two prognostic markers for malignant melanoma: MIA and S100 beta.

Juergensen A(1), Holzapfel U, Hein R, Stolz W, Buettner R, Bosserhoff A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Regensburg Medical School, 
Regensburg, Germany.

It has recently been shown that the serum level of melanoma-inhibitory protein 
(MIA) provides useful information for the therapy and follow-up of patients with 
malignant melanoma. Previously, S100 beta has been described as a useful tumor 
marker for malignant melanoma. In this study, we compare the significance of the 
two markers in follow-up, therapy outcome and prognosis by measuring MIA and 
S100 beta serum levels in 50 melanoma patients. Serum levels were measured in 
patients with malignant melanomas of stages I-IV with at least 3 time points of 
measurement. Serial MIA and S100 beta measurements were obtained from 32 
patients with stage IV disease in parallel to chemotherapy and from 18 patients 
with a history of stage I and stage II disease during follow-up. The response to 
chemotherapy in stage IV disease and relapse of melanoma during follow-up 
correlated with changes in MIA and S100 beta serum levels. In comparison, MIA 
revealed slightly higher specificity and sensitivity. In conclusion, both 
markers are useful for detection of progression from localized to metastatic 
disease during follow-up and for monitoring therapy of advanced melanomas.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000030147
PMID: 11054027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Geriatrics. 2000 Oct;55(10):63-6, 69.

Older Americans 2000. New data system that tracks health and well-being finds 
successes and disparities.

Guttman C.

PMID: 11054952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Hosp Pract (1995). 2000 Oct 15;35(10):45-8, 53-6. doi:
10.3810/hp.2000.10.215.

Screening in the elderly: principles and practice.

Rich JS(1), Sox HC.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vt., USA.

Comment in
    Hosp Pract (1995). 2000 Oct 15;35(10):11-2, 15.

DOI: 10.3810/hp.2000.10.215
PMID: 11054958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Biomed Environ Sci. 2000 Jun;13(2):140-7.

Estimation of burden of disease for smear-positive pulmonary TB and its 
infectivity.

Xu Q(1), Jin SG, Zhang LX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Jinzhou Medical College, China.

The study investigated the burden of smear-positive pulmonary TB and its 
infectivity, using DALY (Disability-Adjusted Life Year) as an indicator. An 
assumed cohort of 2000 cases was set up based on the age-specific incidence of 
794 newly registered smear positive cases of TB in Beijing in 1994. Prognostic 
trees and model diagrams of infectivity under natural history and DOTS (Direct 
Observed Treatment, Short-course) strategy were established according to the 
epidemiological evidence. The results show that 29.6% of DALYs would be 
neglected if the burden caused by the infectivity was not considered. The 
results also show that DOTS strategy may reduce 97.3% of the number of potential 
cases infected, 92.9% of DALYs related to TB-patients themselves, and 99.9% of 
DALYs caused by TB's infectivity as well.

PMID: 11055016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Med Ethics. 2000 Oct;26(5):363-9. doi: 10.1136/jme.26.5.363.

British community pharmacists' views of physician-assisted suicide (PAS).

Hanlon TR(1), Weiss MC, Rees J.

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol.

OBJECTIVES: To explore British community pharmacists' views on PAS, including 
professional responsibility, personal beliefs, changes in law and ethical 
guidance.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire.
SETTING: Great Britain.
SUBJECTS: A random sample of 320 registered full-time community pharmacists.
RESULTS: The survey yielded a response rate of 56%. The results showed that 70% 
of pharmacists agreed that it was a patient's right to choose to die, with 57% 
and 45% agreeing that it was the patient's right to involve his/her doctor in 
the process and to use prescription medicines, respectively. Forty-nine per cent 
said that they would knowingly dispense a prescription for use in PAS were it to 
be legalized and 54% believed it correct to refuse to dispense such a 
prescription. Although 53% believed it to be their right to know when they were 
being involved in PAS, 28% did not. Most pharmacists (90%) said that they would 
wish to see the inclusion of a practice protocol for PAS in the code of ethics 
of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain (CE-RPSGB) in the event of 
a change in the law on PAS. In addition, 89% would wish to see PAS included in 
the Conscience Clause of the CE-RPSGB. Males were found to be significantly less 
likely to favour PAS than females (p < 0.05), as were those declaring an 
ethnic/religious background of consideration when dealing with ethical issues in 
practice compared with their counterparts (p < 0.00005).
CONCLUSION: Pharmacists view their professional responsibility in PAS to be more 
obligatory than a physician's, in having to provide the means for PAS. It is 
worrying that a proportion of the respondents prefer to remain in ignorance of 
the true purpose of a prescription for PAS; a finding at odds with current 
developments within the pharmaceutical profession. A practice protocol for PAS 
and an extension of the conscience clause should be considered in the event of 
PAS becoming legal. Such measures would allow the efficient provision of the 
pharmaceutical service whilst at the same respecting the personal beliefs of 
those who object to cooperating in the ending of a life.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.26.5.363
PMCID: PMC1733280
PMID: 11055040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2000 Sep-Oct;15(5):691-700.

A multicenter report on 1,022 consecutively placed ITI implants: a 7-year 
longitudinal study.

Brocard D(1), Barthet P, Baysse E, Duffort JF, Eller P, Justumus P, Marin P, 
Oscaby F, Simonet T, Benqué E, Brunel G.

Author information:
(1)Recherche et Etude en Parodontologie, Groupe de Toulouse, France.

The aim of this multicenter study was to evaluate cumulative success and 
survival rates of ITI implants after 7 years. A complete medical report was 
obtained for all 440 patients enrolled in this investigation, which involved 10 
different private practices. The 1,022 consecutively placed implants were 
distributed between completely edentulous, partially edentulous, and 
single-tooth replacement cases. During the annual follow-up visit, each implant 
was examined both clinically and radiographically using predefined success 
criteria. The cumulative survival and success rates were calculated for all 
implants. Implant subgroups were defined according to the medical history of the 
patients or pooled according to various indications, locations, implant designs, 
or implant lengths. In each subgroup, the related cumulative success rate was 
statistically compared to the global cumulative success rate. Fifteen implants 
(1.4%) were regarded as early failures, and at the end of the follow-up, the 
global failure rate reached 6.6%; 30 implants (3%) were lost to follow-up. At 5 
years, the cumulative survival rate was 95.4%; this declined to 92.2% at 7 
years. The weakest success rates were observed for implants placed in older 
patients, periodontally treated patients, and completely edentulous arches. 
Conversely, cumulative success rates that were significantly above average were 
observed for patients between 40 and 60 years old without pathology, implants 
placed after bone regeneration, solid-screw implants, implants placed in 
edentulous spaces, and implants placed as single-tooth replacements. This 
investigation has demonstrated that in these 10 private practice settings, the 
success rate for ITI implants remained high for up to 5 years and declined 
slightly between 5 and 7 years. It should be noted that in later year intervals, 
a relatively small number of implants remained for the analysis of cumulative 
success rates.

PMID: 11055136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Brain Res. 2000 Nov 3;882(1-2):62-74. doi: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02828-6.

Is there an optimal age for recovery from motor cortex lesions? I. Behavioral 
and anatomical sequelae of bilateral motor cortex lesions in rats on postnatal 
days 1, 10, and in adulthood.

Kolb B(1), Cioe J, Whishaw IQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, AB T1K 
3M4, Lethbridge, Canada. kolb@uleth.ca

Rats were given bilateral lesions of the motor cortex on the day of birth (P1), 
tenth day of life (P10), or in adulthood. They were trained on several motor 
tasks (skilled forelimb reaching, beam traversing, tongue extension), general 
motor activity, and a test of spatial learning (Morris water task). Although all 
lesion groups were impaired at skilled reaching, the P10 group was less impaired 
than either of the other two lesion groups. Furthermore, on the other motor 
tests the P10 group did not differ from controls whereas both P1 and adult 
groups were impaired. Only the P1 lesion group was impaired at the acquisition 
of the Morris water task. Anatomical analyses revealed that the P1 and P10 rats 
had smaller brains than the other two groups as well as having a generalized 
decrease in cortical thickness. Dendritic analysis of layer III pyramidal cells 
in the parietal cortex revealed a decrease in apical arbor in the lesion groups 
and an increase in the basilar arbor of the P1 and adult lesion animals. The P1 
and adult operated groups showed an increase in spine density in the basilar 
dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells. Finally, analysis of the pattern of 
corticospinal projections revealed that the P1 animals had a markedly wider 
field of corticospinal projection neurons than any of the other groups. The 
widespread anatomical changes in all lesion groups versus the relatively better 
behavioral recovery after P10 lesions suggests that day 10 represents an optimal 
period for adapting to brain damage and subsequent brain reorganization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02828-6
PMID: 11056185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Eur Spine J. 2000 Oct;9(5):437-44. doi: 10.1007/s005860000162.

Vertebral body replacement with a bioglass-polyurethane composite in spine 
metastases--clinical, radiological and biomechanical results.

Schulte M(1), Schultheiss M, Hartwig E, Wilke HJ, Wolf S, Sokiranski R, Fleiter 
T, Kinzl L, Claes L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma, Hand and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Ulm, 
Germany. Michael.schulte@medizin.uni-ulm.de

Metastatic spine lesions frequently require corpectomy in order to achieve 
decompression of the spinal cord and restoration of spinal stability. A variety 
of systems have been developed for vertebral body replacement. In patients with 
prolonged life expectancy due to an improvement of both systemic and local 
therapy, treatment results can be impaired by a loosening at the implant-bone 
interface or mechanical failure. Furthermore, early detection of a metastatic 
recurrence using sensitive imaging modalities like computed tomography (CT) and 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is possible in these patients without artefact 
interference. The aim of our pilot study was to evaluate the clinical 
applicability and results of a new radiolucent system for vertebral body 
replacement in the lumbar spine. The system consists of bone-integrating 
biocompatible materials - a polyetherurethane/bioglass composite (PU-C) 
replacement body and an integrated plate of carbon-fibre reinforced 
polyetheretherketone (CF-PEEK) - and provides high primary stability with 
anterior instrumentation alone. In a current prospective study, five patients 
with metastatic lesions of the lumbar spine were treated by corpectomy and 
reconstruction using this new system. Good primary stability was achieved in all 
cases. Follow-up (median 15 months) using CT and MRI revealed progressive 
osseous integration of the PU-C spacer in four patients surviving more than 6 
months. Results obtained from imaging methods were confirmed following autopsy 
by biomechanical investigation of an explanted device. From these data, it can 
be concluded that implantation of the new radiolucent system provides sufficient 
long-term stability for the requirements of selected tumour patients with 
improved prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s005860000162
PMCID: PMC3611377
PMID: 11057540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2000 Nov 1;92(21):1731-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/92.21.1731.

Cost-effectiveness of androgen suppression therapies in advanced prostate 
cancer.

Bayoumi AM(1), Brown AD, Garber AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, and Inner City Health Research 
Unit, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Canada. ahmed.bayoumi@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2000 Nov 1;92(21):1704-6.

BACKGROUND: The costs and side effects of several antiandrogen therapies for 
advanced prostate cancer differ substantially. We estimated the 
cost-effectiveness of antiandrogen therapies for advanced prostate cancer.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model based 
on a formal meta-analysis and literature review. The base case was assumed to be 
a 65-year-old man with a clinically evident, local recurrence of prostate 
cancer. The model used a societal perspective and a time horizon of 20 years. 
Six androgen suppression strategies were evaluated: diethylstilbestrol (DES), 
orchiectomy, a nonsteroidal antiandrogen (NSAA), a luteinizing hormone-releasing 
hormone (LHRH) agonist, and combinations of an NSAA with an LHRH agonist or 
orchiectomy. Outcome measures were survival, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: DES, the least expensive therapy, had a discounted lifetime cost of 
$3600 and the lowest quality-adjusted survival, 4.6 QALYs. At a cost of $7000, 
orchiectomy was associated with 5.1 QALYs, resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $7500/QALY relative to DES. All other 
strategies-LHRH agonists, NSAA, and both combined androgen blockade 
strategies-had higher costs and lower quality-adjusted survival than 
orchiectomy. These results were sensitive to the quality of life associated with 
orchiectomy and the efficacy of combined androgen blockade, and they changed 
little when prostate-specific antigen results were used to guide therapy. Under 
a wide range of other assumptions, the cost-effectiveness of orchiectomy 
relative to DES was consistently less than $20 000/QALY. Androgen suppression 
therapies were most cost-effective if initiated after patients became 
symptomatic from prostate metastases.
CONCLUSIONS: For men who accept it, orchiectomy is likely to be the most 
cost-effective androgen suppression strategy. Combined androgen blockade is the 
least economically attractive option, yielding small health benefits at high 
relative costs.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/92.21.1731
PMID: 11058616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Aust Fam Physician. 2000 Oct;29(10):957-8.

Growing older and wiser. Part 1--What is life all about?

Hicks V.

This is an edited version of a presentation given at the 1999 RACGP Annual 
Scientific Meeting, held in Adelaide. Lady Valerie Hicks is the widow of Sir 
Stanton Hicks a renowned South Australian physiologist. As 1999 was the Year of 
the Older Person, Lady Valerie was asked for her reflections on what getting 
older means, the place of the older person in today's society and for her 
thoughts on life in general. Her erudite and thought provoking response to this 
task will be published over the next three issues.

PMID: 11059086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Med Decis Making. 2000 Oct-Dec;20(4):377-93. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000402.

Early surgery versus conservative management of dissecting aneurysms of the 
descending thoracic aorta.

Katz D(1), Payne D, Pauker S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA.

BACKGROUND: Optimal management for patients who present acutely with 
uncomplicated type III dissections of the descending thoracic aorta remains 
controversial. Patients with dissecting aneurysms represent a subgroup at high 
risk of rupture who may benefit from early elective surgery as an alternative to 
standard medical therapy. METHODS. The authors constructed a Markov decision 
model to compare the following clinical strategies: 1) early elective surgery 
immediately after diagnosis (EARLY SURGERY), 2) medical therapy with periodic 
computed tomography and with elective surgery when aortic diameter is projected 
to reach 6 cm (CT FOLLOW-UP), and 3) medical therapy with urgent surgery for 
dissection-related complications (WATCHFUL WAITING). Data sources included 
Medline (1966-1995) and a case series of patients with type III dissecting 
aneurysms who received medical therapy with radiographic follow-up.
RESULTS: For a typical 60-year-old patient with an acute, uncomplicated 5-cm 
dissecting aneurysm of the descending thoracic aorta and an operative 30-day 
mortality rate of 14% for EARLY SURGERY, the model predicts that EARLY SURGERY 
improves survival compared with CT FOLLOW-UP (9.91 vs 9.44 QALYs). Conservative 
management may be preferred for patients who have maximum aneurysm diameters < 
or = 4 cm, are elderly (> or = 75 years), or have higher-than-expected risk of 
operative mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The choice between early surgery and medical therapy for 
uncomplicated dissecting aneurysm of the descending thoracic aorta should be 
tailored to the individual patient's operative risk, risk of dissection-related 
events, and age. Early surgery may be a reasonable alternative to medical 
therapy for carefully selected patients at centers with favorable perioperative 
mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000402
PMID: 11059471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Med Decis Making. 2000 Oct-Dec;20(4):451-67. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000409.

A comprehensive league table of cost-utility ratios and a sub-table of 
"panel-worthy" studies.

Chapman RH(1), Stone PW, Sandberg EA, Bell C, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Harvard Center for 
Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: The authors compiled a comprehensive league table of cost/QALY 
ratios, and a standardized table of analyses satisfying selected Reference Case 
criteria from the USPHS Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.
METHODS: They identified 228 cost-utility analyses (CUAs) through literature 
searches, and abstracted data on methods and cost-utility ratios. The subset of 
"Panel-worthy" analyses used: a societal or broad health-care perspective, 
community or patient preference weights, net costs, incremental comparisons, and 
discounting of costs and QALYs.
RESULTS: The 228 CUAs included ratios for 647 interventions, ranging from 
cost-saving to $52,000,000/QALY (median = $12,000/QALY). The standardized table 
presents 112 ratios that met the "Panel-worthy" criteria, with articles 
published in recent years more likely to meet all of the criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: The comprehensive league table (available on the Web) provides a 
useful reference, but ratios may not be comparable because of methodologic 
variations. The standardized table focuses on studies meeting basic methodologic 
criteria, potentially allowing for better comparison with future Reference Case 
analyses. Future studies should investigate the quality of analyses' underlying 
assumptions in addition to whether certain key procedural protocols were met.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000409
PMID: 11059478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Pediatr Int. 2000 Oct;42(5):461-3. doi: 10.1046/j.1442-200x.2000.01289.x.

Child health in the new millennium.

Gracey M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, WA, 
Australia.

In today's modern, industrialized and affluent countries, like Japan and 
Australia, better living conditions and hygiene, plentiful nutritious food and 
rapid advances in biology and medical technologies have helped to bring about 
dramatic improvements in child health. The previous heavy burdens of infections 
and undernutrition have been eliminated or can now be controlled or effectively 
treated. In these countries, child health standards are higher than ever and 
expectation of life at birth is much higher than in the past. Some of the 
technological advances that have helped bring about this transformation are 
immunization, antimicrobial therapy, successful treatment of childhood 
leukemias, transplantation of vital organs and implementation of genetic 
diagnosis and gene therapy. The use of genetically modified foods and the 
prospects for cloning of humans are areas of intense interest and controversy. 
However, these advances have their disadvantages (e.g. antibiotic-induced drug 
resistance). Urbanization has encouraged the 'westernization' of dietary 
patterns and the long-term 'lifestyle diseases' that can follow in adults. 
Accidents, violence and drug abuse are major problems in many parts of the 
world. Changes in attitudes to sexuality and the spread of HIV/AIDS is another 
major problem, especially in Africa and Asia. Environmental pollution and the 
degradation of agricultural lands, rivers and seas are also important. 
Ironically, standards of child health and the prospects for long life in 
countries like Japan are better than ever before, but social and environmental 
changes are presenting children and their carers with new and unanswered 
challenges as we enter the 21 st century and the new millennium.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1442-200x.2000.01289.x
PMID: 11059531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Hepatol. 2000 Oct;33(4):651-8. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0641.2000.033004651.x.

Cost-effectiveness of combination therapy for naive patients with chronic 
hepatitis C.

Buti M(1), Casado MA, Fosbrook L, Wong JB, Esteban R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatology, Hospital Vall d'Hebrón, Barcelona, Spain. 
mbuti@hg.vhebron.es

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2000 Oct;33(4):664-6.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The higher initial cost of combination therapy is a factor 
which may discourage its use in naive patients with histologically mild or 
moderate chronic hepatitis C. However, chronic hepatitis C is a slowly 
progressive disease associated with a decrease in life expectancy and quality of 
life. The objective of this study was to determine if the incremental sustained 
response rate of combination therapy is sufficient to outweigh its extra cost.
METHODS: Chronic hepatitis C progression was studied using a Markov model in 
which cohorts of patients were treated with combination therapy for 6-12 months 
or with interferon for 12 months. The sustained virological response rates 
applied were 43, 35 and 19%, respectively, for combination therapy for 12 
months, for 6 months and for interferon for 12 months. Costs for each clinical 
state were calculated according to clinical practice in Spain.
RESULTS: In a 30-year-old patient with moderate chronic hepatitis C, combination 
therapy for 12 months increases life expectancy by 4.1 years compared with 
interferon for 12 months. In mild disease, the increase in life expectancy is 
lower. The cost per life-year saved in patients with chronic hepatitis C ranges 
from 880 to 64.421 euros depending on the age of the patient, the degree of 
hepatic lesion and the type and duration of therapy. Compared to other 
treatments accepted as standard practice in other therapeutic areas, combination 
therapy for chronic hepatitis C is cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients of any age with moderate chronic hepatitis C and those 
with mild disease under 50 years of age, combination therapy for 12 months is 
the most cost-effective schedule, whereas in older patients with mild hepatitis, 
combination therapy for 6 months is the preferred option based on 
cost-effectiveness criteria.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0641.2000.033004651.x
PMID: 11059872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Pediatr. 2000 Nov;137(5):687-93. doi: 10.1067/mpd.2000.109112.

Long-term follow-up and outcome of 39 patients with chronic granulomatous 
disease.

Liese J(1), Kloos S, Jendrossek V, Petropoulou T, Wintergerst U, Notheis G, Gahr 
M, Belohradsky BH.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Kinderklinik im Dr. v. Haunerschen Kinderspital, Munich, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical long-term course in patients with chronic 
granulomatous disease (CGD) with respect to different CGD subtypes and currently 
used antimicrobial prophylactic measures.
STUDY DESIGN: The records of 39 patients with CGD who were monitored during a 
period of 22 years were reviewed. All infections, infectious complications, and 
clinical outcomes were documented for a total observation period of 610 
patient-years and were stratified with respect to different CGD subtypes.
RESULTS: Lymphadenitis, skin abscesses, and pneumonia occurred in 87%, 72%, and 
59% of the patients, respectively. In 151 microbiologic isolates Staphylococcus 
aureus, Aspergillus species, Candida species, Pseudomonas species, and 
Salmonella species were the most frequently detected microorganisms. There were 
167 severe infections requiring hospitalization and intravenous antimicrobial 
treatment, resulting in an incidence of 3.7 severe infections per 100 patient 
months (SI/100 PM). Long-term antibiotic prophylaxis significantly reduced the 
incidence of severe bacterial infections from 4.8 SI/100 PM to 1. 6 SI/100 PM (P 
=.0035). In contrast, fungal infections increased under antibiotic prophylaxis 
from a mean incidence of 0.2 SI/100 PM to 1.9 SI/100 PM (P =.04). We found a 50% 
survival rate through the fourth decade of life, with a plateau after the third 
decade of life. Patients with a complete absence of cytochrome b(558) showed an 
earlier manifestation of their disease and a higher incidence of infections and 
had significant lower survival than patients with only diminished cytochrome 
b(558) or autosomal recessive CGD.
CONCLUSIONS: Infections with Aspergillus species have become the major cause of 
infectious complications and death in patients with CGD. Prophylactic and 
therapeutic measures are needed to further increase life expectancy and quality 
for patients with CGD.

DOI: 10.1067/mpd.2000.109112
PMID: 11060536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Adolesc Med. 2000 Oct;11(3):589-603.

Cystic fibrosis in adolescents and young adults.

Nasr SZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Michigan Health Systems, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109-0212, USA.

Advances in knowledge and medical science have resulted in an increased life 
span and quality of life of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The median age 
of survival for CF patients is 32.3 years of age and patients 18 years of age or 
older now constitute one third of the total patients with CF. Because of these 
advances, a new patient population has emerged: the adolescents and young adults 
with CF. Adolescence is normally a time of great cognitive, social and 
developmental changes. Adolescents with CF not only have to deal with the normal 
changes expected, but also have to deal with the transition of assuming 
responsibility for their care from the parents and transitioning their care from 
a pediatric to an adult care team. Moreover, many of these young adults have to 
deal with the impact of the progressive deterioration of their CF disease. This 
review discusses issues of significance to this emerging patient population, 
including medical care, issues of disability, and psychosocial and other medical 
conditions associated with an increased life expectancy.

PMID: 11060556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. P N G Med J. 1999 Mar-Jun;42(1-2):13-26.

Mortality rates and the utilization of health services during terminal illness 
in the Asaro Valley, Eastern Highlands Province, Papua New Guinea.

Kakazo M(1), Lehmann D, Coakley K, Gratten H, Saleu G, Taime J, Riley ID, Alpers 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research, Goroka, Papua New Guinea.

Between 1980 and 1989 we carried out fortnightly demographic surveillance in a 
random sample of people living in Goroka town, periurban areas and rural areas 
in the Lowa and Asaro Census Divisions, all within 1 1/2 hours' drive of the 
town in the Asaro Valley, Eastern Highlands Province. Cause of death was 
determined by verbal autopsy supplemented by any available health service 
information. Crude death and birth rates were 10 and 32 per 1000 person-years, 
respectively, in 59,906 person-years at risk. The standardized mortality ratio 
increased with increasing distance from town. Life expectancy at birth was 57 
years for males and 55 years for females. The stillbirth rate was 19 per 1000 
births, neonatal and infant mortality 21 and 60 per 1000 livebirths, 
respectively, and 1-4-year mortality 9 per 1000 person-years. Maternal mortality 
was 3 per 1000 births. Neonatal and infant mortality were respectively 7 and 3 
times as high in Asaro Census Division as in Goroka town. Acute lower 
respiratory tract infections accounted for 22% of all deaths, chronic 
obstructive lung disease 10%, trauma 8% and gastroenteritis/dysentery 7%. 76% of 
deaths occurred at home and 44% of people who died had no treatment during their 
terminal illness. Health services were used most frequently by urban dwellers 
and by the young. To reduce mortality, a political commitment to provide 
functioning health services in rural areas is needed; regular supervision of 
health staff, ensuring the safety of staff and their families, availability of 
antibiotics as near people's homes as possible and regular mobile maternal and 
child health clinics are essential. Health education should include recognition 
of signs of severe disease and the importance of seeking treatment early. In 
view of high maternal and neonatal mortality, user fees should be waived for 
pregnant women.

PMID: 11061003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Arthroplasty. 2000 Oct;15(7):901-8. doi: 10.1054/arth.2000.9194.

Variation in the wear rate during the life of a total hip arthroplasty: a 
simulator and retrieval study.

Elfick AP(1), Smith SL, Unsworth A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering, University of 
Durham, United Kingdom.

The limitation of wear is fundamental to the optimization of total hip 
arthroplasty longevity. The maintenance of the supersmooth femoral head surface 
is considered to be paramount in maximizing prosthesis life expectancy. Ex vivo 
studies have failed to substantiate a relationship between roughness and the 
clinical wear factor, however. A hip simulator wear study was undertaken to 
investigate this contradiction. Three explanted femoral heads were articulated 
for 5 million cycles against new acetabular liners. The simulator wear rate was 
5 times the ex vivo value. This difference can be explained only if the explant 
head roughness was not that which existed for most of the joint's life. The 
relationship between surface roughness and wear deduced for simulator testing is 
substantially different from that of unidirectional wear screening methods. The 
multiphasic nature of wear in cementless joints has been illustrated: a wear-in 
period, followed by a steady-state phase, until a head-roughening event causes a 
rapid wear period.

DOI: 10.1054/arth.2000.9194
PMID: 11061451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Ann Oncol. 2000 Sep;11(9):1073.

Cancer mortality up, life expectancy down in Eastern Europe.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11061595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. BMJ. 2000 Nov 4;321(7269):1094-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.321.7269.1094.

Ten years of German unification.

Nolte E, McKee M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.321.7269.1094
PMCID: PMC1118886
PMID: 11061719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. BMJ. 2000 Nov 4;321(7269):1124-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.321.7269.1124.

International comparators and poverty and health in Europe.
