
Marmot M(1), Bobak M.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, University College London, London WC1E 6BT. M.Marmot@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2001 Mar 31;322(7289):798.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.321.7269.1124
PMCID: PMC1118901
PMID: 11061736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Transfusion. 2000 Oct;40(10):1182-91. doi:
10.1046/j.1537-2995.2000.40101182.x.

A model of the health and economic impact of posttransfusion hepatitis C: 
application to cost-effectiveness analysis of further expansion of HCV screening 
protocols.

Pereira A(1), Sanz C.

Author information:
(1)Hemotherapy and Hemostasis Service, and the Blood Bank, Hospital Cl√≠nic and 
Augusto Pi-Sunyer Memorial Institute for Biomedical Research, Barcelona, Spain. 
apereira@clinic.ub.es

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses are needed to decide the value of 
further expansion of the screening protocols for HCV in blood donors. However, 
such analyses are hampered by imperfect knowledge of the health and economic 
repercussions of posttransfusion hepatitis C (PTHC).
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A Monte Carlo simulation of a Markov model 
representing the outcomes of patients transfused with HCV-infective blood was 
used to estimate the health and economic impact of PTHC and to calculate the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of various HCV screening methods.
RESULTS: Median survival for hypothetical patients with PTHC and for controls 
without hepatitis was 11.25 and 11.75 years, respectively. Overall, 12.3 percent 
of patients receiving HCV-infective blood will develop chronic hepatitis, 9.3 
percent will progress to liver failure, and 9. 25 percent will eventually die of 
liver disease after a median time of 20.75 years (range, 6-70). Ninety-one 
percent of the infected blood recipients had no reduction in life expectancy due 
to PTHC, and the average loss per patient was 0.754 years. The present value of 
the lifetime health costs incurred by patients with PTHC is $6330 per case. HCV 
antibody testing increases the patients' life expectancy by 20.4 hours per blood 
collection tested, and it results in net savings by decreasing the number of 
patients that will require treatment for liver disease in the future. Adding HCV 
NAT increases the patients' life expectancy by 0.08 hours per blood collection 
tested, at a cost-effectiveness ratio of $1,829,611 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: PTHC has low health benefits because of the advanced age of many 
blood recipients. Testing donors for HCV antibodies results in net savings for 
the health care system, despite low health benefits. Adding HCV NAT would 
produce little additional gain at a very high cost.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2000.40101182.x
PMID: 11061853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Urol. 2000 Dec;164(6):1998-2001.

Salvage radical prostatectomy for radiorecurrent prostate cancer: morbidity 
revisited.

Vaidya A(1), Soloway MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Miami, Miami, Florida, USA.

PURPOSE: With the advent of prostate specific antigen (PSA) testing and 
transrectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsy there has been stage migration in 
the diagnosis of prostate cancer, so that more younger men are being diagnosed 
with organ confined prostate cancer. Many patients elect radiation therapy, 
while some have recurrent or new prostate cancer with absent systemic disease 
and life expectancy greater than 10 years. We present our experience with 
salvage radical prostatectomy in these cases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1995 and 2000, 6 men treated with curative intent 
with radiotherapy for prostate cancer were subsequently treated with salvage 
surgery for clinically localized prostate cancer. All men had biopsy proved 
recurrent or persistent prostate cancer, increasing serum PSA, no evidence of 
systemic disease at surgery and life expectancy greater than 10 years. We 
assessed the morbidity associated with this procedure and compared results to 
those in the contemporary literature.
RESULTS: Six patients underwent salvage radical prostatectomy. Initial 
pre-radiation PSA was 4.5 to 15.7 ng./ml. Pre-radiation disease was clinical 
stage T1c in 5 cases and B2 in 1. The interval from radiotherapy to repeat 
biopsy was 12 to 48 months. A mean of 6.3 months after local recurrence was 
detected and before salvage radical prostatectomy was performed 4 patients 
underwent androgen deprivation therapy. Mean operative time was 195 minutes, 
intraoperative blood loss was 680 cc, and hospital stay and catheterization time 
were 3.2 and 13.8 days, respectively. There were no rectal injuries. All 6 
patients are impotent, 5 are continent and 1 has mild stress incontinence. There 
was biochemical failure in 1 case 36 months after salvage radical prostatectomy 
and no evidence of recurrence in the remaining 5 at a mean followup of 27 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: Salvage radical prostatectomy is a technically challenging 
procedure. In the past it was associated with a high incidence of rectal injury, 
urinary incontinence and anastomotic stricture. The results of our relatively 
small series are encouraging and concur with those of recent studies that the 
morbidity of salvage radical prostatectomy is lower than previously reported. We 
believe that salvage radical prostatectomy may be considered a reasonable 
treatment option in appropriate patients with radiorecurrent prostate cancer.

PMID: 11061900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Virology. 2000 Nov 10;277(1):66-75. doi: 10.1006/viro.2000.0587.

Construction of full-length cDNA clones to Soil-borne wheat mosaic virus RNA1 
and RNA2, from which infectious RNAs are transcribed In vitro: virion formation 
and systemic infection without expression of the N-terminal and C-terminal 
extensions to the capsid protein.

Yamamiya A(1), Shirako Y.

Author information:
(1)Asian Center for Bioresources and Environmental Sciences (ANESC), Graduate 
School of Agricultural Life Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.

The 19-kDa capsid protein (CP) of Soil-borne wheat mosaic furovirus (SBWMV) is 
encoded in the 5'-terminal region of RNA2. In addition to CP, two CP-related 
proteins are translated from SBWMV RNA2: (1) a 24-kDa protein (N-CP) with an 
N-terminal 40-amino-acid extension initiated at an upstream in-frame CUG codon; 
and (2) an 83-kDa protein (CP-RT) with an about 580-amino-acid, C-terminal 
extension by partial translational readthrough at the UGA termination codon at 
the end of the CP gene. We examined requirements for N-CP and CP-RT on virion 
formation and systemic infection in wheat plants using full-length cDNA clones, 
from which infectious RNA can be transcribed in vitro. RNA2 mutants, which could 
not synthesize N-CP, CP-RT, or either infected wheat plants systemically in 
combination with the wild-type RNA1 transcripts, produced rod-shaped virus 
particles in uninoculated upper leaves. Original mutations which abolished 
translation of N-CP and CP-RT were confirmed on RNA2 extracted from purified 
virus from the upper leaves by nucleotide sequence analysis. These results 
indicate that neither N-terminal nor C-terminal extensions to the CP are 
required for virion formation and systemic infection of SBWMV in wheat plants.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.2000.0587
PMID: 11062037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2000;6(5):476-95. doi: 
10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70019-x.

Status of high-dose chemotherapy for breast cancer: a review.

Nieto Y(1), Champlin RE, Wingard JR, Vredenburgh JF, Elias AD, Richardson P, 
Glaspy J, Jones RB, Stiff PJ, Bearman SI, Cagnoni PJ, McSweeney PA, LeMaistre 
CF, Pecora AL, Shpall EF.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Denver 80262, USA. 
yago.nieto@uchsc.edu

The purpose of this review is to analyze the current status of high-dose 
chemotherapy (HDCT) with autologous stem cell transplantation for patients with 
breast cancer. Current results from the major prospective phase 2 and phase 3 
trials in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) and high-risk primary breast cancer 
(HRPBC) are reviewed. Prognostic factors and future research directions are also 
discussed. The encouraging results of phase 2 trials suggested a benefit for 
HDCT in HRPBC and some categories of patients with MBC. Some investigators have 
argued that patient selection might have been a critical factor in those 
studies. Recently reported randomized trials in patients with chemosensitive MBC 
have included only small numbers of patients in complete remission and thus have 
not adequately addressed the relative value of HDCT versus maintenance 
standard-dose chemotherapy in this patient subset. Although initial results of 2 
studies have been reported, most randomized phase 3 studies of HDCT in HRPBC 
require longer follow-up before definitive conclusions can be made about its 
efficacy in this setting. We conclude that the role of HDCT for HRPBC or MBC 
patients has not yet been fully defined. Longer follow-up of the ongoing 
randomized trials is necessary, and their mature results will help clarify this 
important question. In the meantime, it is imperative that research continues, 
to enhance the efficacy of the procedure. This may come through incorporating 
more active drugs into HDCT regimens and combining HDCT with novel strategies 
aimed at eradication of posttransplantation minimal residual disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70019-x
PMID: 11063377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2000;6(5):496-505. doi: 
10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70020-6.

High-dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell rescue for breast cancer: 
experience in California.

Damon LE(1), Hu WW, Stockerl-Goldstein KE, Blume KG, Wolf JL, Gold E, Cecchi GR, 
Irwin D, Glaspy J, Territo I, Miller W, Mason JR, Linker CA.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0324, USA.

The role of high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) and autologous hematopoietic stem cell 
rescue in breast cancer is still controversial. We analyzed the outcomes of 1111 
consecutive patients with histologically proven breast cancer who underwent HDCT 
at 5 major California medical centers. The overall treatment-related mortality 
(TRM) was 2.3%. TRM was not influenced by disease stage or the HDCT regimen 
delivered, but it was influenced by hematopoietic graft source. The TRM was 6.1% 
when bone marrow with or without blood stem cells was used, but only 1.4% when 
blood stem cells alone were used (P < .001). With a median follow-up of 2.8 
years (range, 0.1-8.2 years) after HDCT and autologous hematopoietic stem cell 
rescue, the estimated 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) 
for stage II/IIIA patients with > or =10 involved axillary lymph nodes were 67% 
and 76%, respectively. Patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) (median 
follow-up, 1.9 years [range, 0.03-8.3 years]) achieving a complete response (CR) 
to conventional-dose chemotherapy or rendered to a "no evidence of disease" 
status before HDCT had significantly better estimated 5-year EFS and OS (28% and 
57%, respectively) than those achieving a partial response before HDCT (19% and 
27%, respectively; P < or = .0001). Our data suggest that HDCT with 
hematopoietic stem cell rescue is safe and can be beneficial to patients with 
high-risk primary breast cancer and for those with MBC achieving CR/no evidence 
of disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70020-6
PMID: 11063378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Can J Cardiol. 2000 Oct;16(10):1225-30.

Overview of the Alberta Provincial Project for Outcome Assessment in Coronary 
Heart Disease. On behalf of the APPROACH investigators.

Ghali WA(1), Knudtson ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada. 
wghali@ucalgary.ca

Comment in
    Can J Cardiol. 2000 Oct;16(10):1222-4.

The Alberta Provincial Project for Outcome Assessment in Coronary Heart Disease 
(APPROACH) is an ongoing prospective data collection initiative that began in 
January 1995. The cohort for the initiative is all patients undergoing cardiac 
catheterization in Alberta. Patients are followed longitudinally for the 
determination of short and long term clinical, economic and quality of life 
outcomes. The project is producing valuable information on the processes and 
outcomes of cardiac care in Alberta, and is now being implemented in British 
Columbia as well. This paper provides an overview of APPROACH with specific 
attention to the project's general objectives, salient features, database 
structure and technical specifications. Examples of applied research projects 
based on APPROACH data are also provided.

PMID: 11064296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Haematologica. 2000 Nov;85(11):1126-34.

Relevance of bone marrow features in the differential diagnosis between 
essential thrombocythemia and early stage idiopathic myelofibrosis.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM, Zankovich R, Diehl V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 
D-50924 Cologne, Germany. j.thiele@uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia (ET) remains a 
challenging problem and has been predominantly established by exclusion of other 
thrombocythemic disorders. In this context the updated diagnostic criteria of 
the Polycythemia Vera Study Group (PVSG) are generally accepted, although 
histopathologic features of the bone marrow were only marginally considered.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A retrospective evaluation was performed of 168 patients 
presenting with ET in accordance with the criteria of the PVSG. Analysis was 
focused on the discriminating impact of bone marrow morphology.
RESULTS: Histopathology revealed that our cohort of patients could be divided 
into three distinct groups (true ET, questionable ET and false ET). These groups 
were characterized by certain diagnostic constellations of clinical data on 
admission. True ET was found in 53 patients presenting with no or a borderline 
splenomegaly and no relevant anemia or leuko-erythroblastic blood picture. The 
other patients showed clinical signs and symptoms which were more compatible 
with initial-prefibrotic (52 patients) or early (68 patients) idiopathic-primary 
myelofibrosis (IMF) with severe thrombocythemia. In true ET no significant 
hypercellularity of the bone marrow including myeloid precursors or an increase 
in reticulin fibers was detectable. Most prominent were changes of 
megakaryopoiesis which revealed large to giant-sized cells lacking a definite 
maturation defect. Their appearance in true ET contrasted with the clusters of 
abnormally differentiated, often bizarre elements of this lineage in patients 
with initial and early IMF (questionable or false ET). Calculation of survival 
disclosed a relevant disparity with a non-significant loss in life expectancy of 
10.9% in true ET compared to 29.6% in questionable and 51.3% in false ET. 
Follow-up studies and repeated bone marrow biopsies revealed no transition into 
myelofibrosis in true ET, whereas this did occur in 22 of 27 patients with 
questionable and false ET. In the latter cohort bone marrow changes were 
accompanied by increasing anemia, splenomegaly, tear-drop poikilocytosis and 
reduction of the platelet count consistent with IMF.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: A detailed evaluation of bone marrow features, 
in particular megakaryopoiesis is recommended to establish positive criteria for 
the diagnosis of ET and thus to accomplish a significant improvement of the PVSG 
postulates. In this context ongoing clinical trials on ET must regard 
pretreatment bone marrow biopsies as a major clue to diagnosis.

PMID: 11064463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Mt Sinai J Med. 2000 Oct-Nov;67(5-6):365-74.

The cost-effectiveness of methadone maintenance.

Barnett PG(1), Hui SS.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Resource Center, VA Palo Alto Health Care System, 795 Willow 
Rd. (152 MPD), Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although methadone maintenance is effective in reducing injection 
drug use, needle sharing, and the overall mortality associated with opiate 
abuse, many health plans offer little or no access to methadone, and many 
methadone providers do not comply with treatment guidelines regarding dose, 
duration of treatment, or provision of ancillary services. Moral and political 
judgments have helped shape the U.S. treatment system. Evaluations of methadone 
cost-effectiveness may play a role in changing public policy.
METHOD: Cost-effectiveness analysis is used to compare a change, or changes, in 
treatment to that of current standard care. The cost of treatment and its effect 
on outcomes are used to find the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, and 
determine whether the change(s) should be adopted. The literature on methadone 
maintenance is reviewed from an economic perspective, focusing on five policy 
questions: (1) whether methadone should be a health care benefit; (2) what level 
of ancillary services is optimal; (3) what methadone dose is appropriate; (4) 
what length of treatment is appropriate; and (5) whether contingency contracts 
should be employed.
RESULTS: Expanded access to methadone maintenance has an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of less than $11,000 per Quality-Adjusted Life Year. 
This is more cost-effective than many widely used medical therapies, a finding 
that strongly supports the inclusion of methadone in the formulary of health 
care plans.Ancillary services have been shown to be an effective part of 
methadone maintenance therapy, especially during the beginning of a treatment 
episode, but there is not enough information available to tell whether the 
optimal amount of services is being used. There is extensive evidence that many 
treatment programs dispense inadequate doses of methadone. The cost of 
additional drugs is very small compared to the benefits of an adequate dose. 
Many methadone programs limit treatment to 6 months or less, but such short 
episodes are not likely to be cost-effective. The medical model of methadone 
maintenance may increase the cost-effectiveness of the treatment for long-term 
patients. Programs that reward patients for negative urinalysis have proven 
effective at reducing illicit drug use, but their cost-effectiveness will need 
to be demonstrated before they are widely adopted.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness researchers need to measure substance abuse 
outcomes in terms of Quality-Adjusted Life Years, as this will make their 
findings more relevant to the development of treatment policy. It will allow 
different substance abuse treatments to be compared to each other and to medical 
care interventions.

PMID: 11064486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Am J Health Promot. 2000 Jul-Aug;14(6):341-2. doi:
10.4278/0890-1171-14.6.341.

Special issue on health promotion among the elderly.

Breslow L, Reuben D, Wallace S.

DOI: 10.4278/0890-1171-14.6.341
PMID: 11067567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 Aug;18(2):161-71. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200018020-00006.

Cost effectiveness of epoetin-alpha to augment preoperative autologous blood 
donation in elective cardiac surgery.

Coyle D(1), Lee KM, Fergusson DA, Laupacis A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Loeb Health Research Institute, Ottawa Hospital, 
Canada. dcoyle@lri.ca

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the cost effectiveness of 
using epoetin-alpha (erythropoietin) to augment preoperative autologous donation 
(PAD) of blood prior to elective cardiac surgery.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We designed a decision-analytic model incorporating the risk 
of receiving allogeneic blood, the costs of blood products, the likelihood of 
developing transfusion-related diseases, the costs of transfusion-related 
diseases and their impact on life expectancy, and the effect of epoetin-alpha on 
the probability of transfusion.
INTERVENTIONS: The efficacy of epoetin-alpha was derived from data from a 
meta-analysis of published randomised trials comparing the use of epoetin-alpha 
to augment PAD with the use of PAD alone. Estimates for the other parameters 
were obtained by a systematic review of the literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: The use of epoetin-alpha reduced the 
proportion of patients receiving allogeneic transfusions by 60% (from 31.6 to 
12.7%). However, this led to only a modest benefit of 0.000035 life years gained 
per patient and an incremental cost per life year gained of $Can44.6 million 
(1998 Canadian dollars). A detailed sensitivity analysis confirmed that the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was larger than that which is generally considered 
acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that the use of epoetin-alpha to reduce 
perioperative allogeneic transfusions in cardiac surgery is not cost effective.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200018020-00006
PMID: 11067650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Pediatr Neurol. 2000 Oct;23(4):312-9. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(00)00194-6.

Life expectancy of children in vegetative and minimally conscious states.

Strauss DJ(1), Ashwal S, Day SM, Shavelle RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside, Riverside, 
California, USA.

We determined estimates of survival in children, 3-15 years of age, in the 
vegetative state (VS) (n = 564), immobile minimally conscious state (MCS) (n = 
705), and mobile MCS (n = 3,806). Data were extracted from the annual Client 
Development Evaluation Reports of the California Department of Developmental 
Services between 1988 and 1997 using the operational definitions for these three 
states on the basis of 15 descriptive behavioral categories. Patients were also 
categorized according to the following four etiologies: acquired (traumatic and 
nontraumatic) brain injury; perinatal/genetic; degenerative; and 
unknown/undetermined. The percentage of patients surviving 8 years was 63%, 65%, 
and 81%, for the VS, immobile MCS, and mobile MCS, respectively. Children in the 
VS and MCSs with acquired brain injury had lower mortality rates and those with 
degenerative diseases the highest mortality rates. We observed little difference 
in survival between patients in the VS and immobile MCS, suggesting that the 
presence of consciousness is not a critical variable in determining life 
expectancy. Furthermore, survival was much greater for patients in the mobile 
MCS than for those in the immobile MCS, suggesting that mobility is more 
important in predicting survival than the level of consciousness.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(00)00194-6
PMID: 11068163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nihon Rinsho. 2000 Oct;58(10):2132-8.

[Rating scale and functional prognosis of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakano I(1), Fujimoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jichi Medical School.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Motor functions 
of patients with Parkinson's disease are determined by its cardinal symptoms: 
akinesia, tremor, rigidity and disturbed righting reflexes. To evaluate degree 
of disability and rate of its progression in Parkinson disease, simple but 
reliable and reproducible rating scales are essential. Those that essentially 
fulfil such conditions are Hoehn and Yahr Scale, Schwab and England Scale, and 
Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). Levodopa, the major 
anti-parkinsonian agent, has greatly improved the motor functions of the 
Parkinson's disease patients and prolonged their life expectancy. Studies using 
the above mentioned scales compared the rate of disability progression and the 
motor functional prognosis between pre- and post-levodopa era, and always 
demonstrated the levodopa's benefits for the prognosis. Side effects of long 
administration of levodopa such as motor fluctuation, dyskinesia, wearing-off or 
on-off phenomenon, and psychosis, however, are disability factors to the 
patients' motor functions. Rating scales that can integrate the side effects to 
evaluate the functions will be required.

PMID: 11068460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2000 Oct;25(5):988-91. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-25-5-988.

Death takes no holiday. Essay review.

Sarewitz D(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, USA.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-25-5-988
PMID: 11068745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Leukemia. 2000 Nov;14(11):1861-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401924.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation improves the outcome of de novo AML with 
trilineage dysplasia (AML-TLD).

Taguchi J(1), Miyazaki Y, Yoshida S, Fukushima T, Moriuchi Y, Jinnai I, Matsuo 
T, Kuriyama K, Tomonaga M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Molecular Medicine Unit, Atomic Bomb Disease 
Institute, Nagasaki University School of Medicine, Japan.

De novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with dysplastic features in erythroblasts, 
granulocytes and megakaryocytes, similar to those in myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS) has been described as AML with trilineage dysplasia (AML-TLD) since 1987. 
Several reports have suggested that AML-TLD is a subtype of de novo AML in 
adults and has a poor clinical outcome when treated by conventional 
chemotherapy. It is not certain whether allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) brings a favorable outcome for AML-TLD. To evaluate the therapeutic 
efficacy of allogeneic BMT for AML-TLD, we investigated the clinical data and 
outcomes of conventional chemotherapy and allogeneic BMT for 118 patients with 
de novo AML. These patients were registered consecutively for the Japan Adult 
Leukemia Study Group (JALSG) protocols at our institutes. We treated 28 AML-TLD 
patients and 90 AML-nonTLD patients with conventional chemotherapeutic 
protocols. AML-TLD patients did not have a significantly different complete 
remission (CR) rate (75.0% and 88.4% P = 0.1234), but had a significantly higher 
relapse rate than AML-nonTLD patients (94.1% and 49.3%, P= 0.0007). The outcome 
of chemotherapy for AML-TLD was significantly worse than that for AML-nonTLD. 
The overall survival (OS) and leukemia-free survival (LFS) at 6 years were 9.4% 
and 0% in AML-TLD group, and 51.9% (P= 0.0017) and 46.3% (P< 0.0001) in 
AML-nonTLD group, respectively. Meanwhile, among the patients who underwent 
allogeneic BMT, five of eight AML-TLD patients and eight of 14 AML-nonTLD 
patients were alive, and three and five patients survived more than 3 years, 
respectively. These results suggest that allogeneic BMT can improve the outcome 
for AML-TLD, which is poor when conventional chemotherapy is given alone. 
Allogeneic BMT before relapse may be the best therapeutic strategy for AML-TLD 
patients under 50 years of age if a donor is available.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401924
PMID: 11069020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2000 Nov;162(5):1648-52. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.162.5.2003028.

Twelve months of isoniazid compared with four months of isoniazid and rifampin 
for persons with radiographic evidence of previous tuberculosis: an outcome and 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Jasmer RM(1), Snyder DC, Chin DP, Hopewell PC, Cuthbert SS, Antonio Paz E, Daley 
CL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, San Francisco General 
Hospital Medical Center, and the Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA, USA. rjasmer@itsa.ucsf.edu

Isoniazid taken daily for 12 mo and isoniazid and rifampin taken daily for 4 mo 
are both recommended options for patients with radiographic evidence of previous 
tuberculosis and positive tuberculin skin tests who have not had prior 
treatment. We compared the completion rates, number of adverse effects, and cost 
effectiveness of these two regimens. Patients were treated at the San Francisco 
Tuberculosis Clinic from 1993 through 1996. A Markov model was developed to 
assess impact on life expectancy and costs. One thousand twenty-two patients, 
with a mean age of 52 yr, and > 90% foreign born, were treated; 545 received 
isoniazid and 477 received isoniazid and rifampin. For isoniazid, 79.8% 
completed 12 mo of therapy and 4.9% had adverse effects versus 83.6% completion, 
6.1% adverse effects for isoniazid and rifampin (p > 0.05 for all between-group 
comparisons). Both regimens increased life expectancy by 1.4-1.5 yr. Compared 
with isoniazid, isoniazid and rifampin produced net incremental savings of $135 
per patient treated. In patients with radiographic evidence of prior 
tuberculosis who have not been previously treated, isoniazid for 12 mo and 
isoniazid and rifampin for 4 mo have similar rates of completion and adverse 
effects, and both increase life expectancy compared with no treatment. Isoniazid 
and rifampin for 4 mo is cost saving compared with isoniazid alone. This 
advantage was maintained even when compared with 9 mo of isoniazid, the new 
American Thoracic Society/Centers for Disease Control (ATS/CDC) recommendation 
for treatment with isoniazid alone.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.162.5.2003028
PMID: 11069790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2000 Sep 10;120(21):2513-6.

[Palliative endoscopic stent drainage of non-operable malignant biliary 
obstruction].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kleveland PM(1), Fougner R.

Author information:
(1)Medisinsk avdeling, Regionsykehuset i Trondheim.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic stenting is the treatment of choice for inoperable 
malignant biliary obstruction. The standard plastic stents in use, however, tend 
to clog with time.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We report the patient survival and stent patency rates in 
two separate groups of patients treated endoscopically for malignant biliary 
strictures on the basis of a retrospective review of patient medical records. 
The first group of 27 patients was treated with small caliber polyethylene 
stents in 1997. The second group of ten selected patients with fairly good life 
expectancy was treated with self-expandable wallstents due to early plastic 
stent occlusion in 1998.
RESULTS: The median stent patency and patient survival of patients treated with 
plastic stents was 11 and 14 weeks, respectively. Early stent occlusion occurred 
in seven patients. The median stent patency and patient survival of the patients 
treated with wallstents were 25 and 32 weeks, respectively. Late stent occlusion 
due to tumour ingrowth occurred in two patients.
INTERPRETATION: The last generation of self-expandable wallstent is 
endoscopically easy to insert and represents a valuable supplement to standard 
plastic stenting. Due to high cost, however, metal stents should preferably be 
offered patients with early plastic stent occlusion and estimated good life 
expectancy.

PMID: 11070987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Eur J Surg. 2000 Oct;166(10):771-6. doi: 10.1080/110241500447399.

Simultaneous aortic surgery and malnutrition increase morbidity after 
revascularisation of the mesenteric arteries.

Seelig MH(1), Klingler PJ, Oldenburg WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, General Hospital Ludwigshafen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the early and late outcome of mesenteric 
revascularisation in patients who had had elective mesenteric revascularisation 
for chronic intestinal ischaemia.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: Academic clinic, United States.
SUBJECT: 19 consecutive patients (7 men, 12 women; mean age 70 years, range 
53-83).
RESULTS: Angiography showed that 2 mesenteric vessels were affected in 7 
patients and 3 in 12. Four patients had coexisting symptomatic aortoiliac 
occlusive disease and 1 patient had bilateral renal artery stenosis. A total of 
36 visceral arteries were revascularised. One patient died postoperatively, and 
8 developed serious complications. Morbidity and mortality were significantly 
higher in patients who had simultaneous infrarenal aortic or renal artery 
reconstructions (p = 0.01). Patients whose body weight before operation was less 
than 90% of ideal had more complications (8/11) than patients who were within 
10% of their ideal body weight (1/8) (p = 0.02). Cumulative survival was 89% at 
1 year, 72% at 3 years, and 57% at 5 years. The cumulative graft patency rate 
was 92% at 3 years and 66% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Mesenteric bypass procedures for chronic mesenteric ischaemia are 
durable. Long-term survival and graft patency rates are excellent even in older 
patients. Simultaneous aortic surgery should be avoided because of the 
associated morbidity. More than 10% below ideal body weight was associated with 
higher morbidity. For these patients, early total parenteral nutrition 
postoperatively, or a period of total parenteral nutrition preoperatively may 
reduce postoperative morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/110241500447399
PMID: 11071163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Eur J Surg. 2000 Oct;166(10):777-81. doi: 10.1080/110241500447407.

Patency of autologous and prosthetic arteriovenous fistulas in elderly patients.

Staramos DN(1), Lazarides MK, Tzilalis VD, Ekonomou CS, Simopoulos CE, Dayantas 
JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Athens General Hospital G. GENNIMATAS, 
Greece.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the patency of autologous and graft-bridging (prosthetic) 
arteriovenous (AV) fistulas in patients 70 years of age or more.
DESIGN: Non-randomised comparative study.
SETTING: University hospital, Greece.
PATIENTS: 114 patients aged 70 years or more (mean 78) who required 135 
consecutive angioaccess procedures during the 8-year period January 
1990-December 1997.
INTERVENTIONS: 68 autologous and 67 prosthetic procedures, 64 of the prosthetic 
procedures being proximal brachioaxillary AV arm grafts.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary and secondary cumulative patency rates and 
cumulative survival.
RESULTS: Life table analysis showed that the 3-year secondary patency (medium 
term patency) was significantly superior in the prosthetic group (58% compared 
with 44%, p = 0.04). Cumulative survival at 3-years was 21%.
CONCLUSIONS: A proximal brachioaxillary prosthetic AV graft is a good 
alternative as initial primary access in elderly patients who are not suitable 
for an autologous proximal AV fistula. At this age long term patency and 
conservation of proximal access sites are of minimum importance because of their 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1080/110241500447407
PMID: 11071164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Lancet. 2000 Jul 22;356(9226):303-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02506-X.

Longevity of atomic-bomb survivors.

Cologne JB(1), Preston DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan. cologne@rerf.or.jp

BACKGROUND: Conflicting claims have been made regarding biological and health 
consequences of exposure to low doses of radiation. Studies have suggested that 
certain low-dose exposed atomic-bomb survivors live longer than their peers. 
Earlier studies in other radiation-exposed populations demonstrated life 
shortening from mortality from cancer but lacked dosimetry and relied on 
comparison groups which may introduce bias because of lack of comparability. We 
have re-examined the effect of radiation on life expectancy in one cohort of 
survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.
METHODS: We did a prospective cohort study of 120,321 survivors. The study 
encompasses 45 years of mortality follow-up with radiation-dose estimates 
available for most cohort members. We calculated relative mortality rates and 
survival distribution using internal comparison (cohort-based estimation of 
background mortality).
FINDINGS: Median life expectancy decreased with increasing radiation dose at a 
rate of about 1.3 years per Gy, but declined more rapidly at high doses. Median 
loss of life among cohort members with estimated doses below 1 Gy was about 2 
months, but among the small number of cohort members with estimated doses of 1 
Gy or more it was 2.6 years. Median loss of life among all individuals with 
greater-than-zero dose estimates was about 4 months.
INTERPRETATION: These results are important in light of the recent finding that 
radiation significantly increases mortality rates for causes other than cancer. 
The results do not support claims that survivors exposed to certain doses of 
radiation live longer than comparable unexposed individuals. Because the cohort 
was intentionally constructed to contain a higher proportion of high-dose 
atomic-bomb survivors, average loss of life among all exposed atomic-bomb 
survivors would be less than the 4 months found for the study cohort.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02506-X
PMID: 11071186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2000;6(5A):555-62. doi: 
10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70065-6.

Toxicity of high-dose sequential chemotherapy and purged autologous 
hematopoietic cell transplantation precludes its use in refractory/recurrent 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Johnston LJ(1), Stockerl-Goldstein KE, Hu WW, Negrin RS, Hoppe RT, Blume KG, 
Horning SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bone Marrow Transplantation, Stanford University, California 
94305, USA. laura.johnston@stanford.edu

We conducted a pilot study in 20 patients with high-risk or recurrent/refractory 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) using high-dose sequential chemotherapy (HDSC) and 
autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT). After cytoreduction with 
standard salvage therapy, HDSC/AHCT was administered in 4 phases at 2- to 4-week 
intervals. Phase 1 consisted of cyclophosphamide 7 g/m2 followed by granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) at 10 microg/kg per day and leukapheresis upon 
recovery from white blood cell nadir. The hematopoietic cell product was 
enriched by Percoll gradient separation and purged with a B-cell or T-cell 
monoclonal antibody panel and complement. Phase 2 consisted of methotrexate 8 
g/m2 with leucovorin rescue and vincristine 1.4 mg/m2. Phase 3 was etoposide 2 
g/m2 with G-CSF 5 microg/kg per day. In phase 4, the preparative regimen of 
mitoxantrone 60 mg/m2 and melphalan 180 mg/m2 was administered followed by AHCT. 
The NHL histologies were diffuse large cell, follicular/diffuse mixed, small 
noncleaved cell, T-cell-rich B-cell, lymphoblastic, and peripheral T cell. The 
remission status was first partial remission (PR1; n = 1) or beyond first 
complete remission (post-CR1; n = 19). Of the 20 patients enrolled, 11 proceeded 
through all 4 phases. Nine were removed from the study after the first or second 
phase because of progressive disease (n = 5), poor hematopoietic cell 
mobilization (n = 1), excessive toxicity (n = 2), and chronic active hepatitis C 
(n = 1). Treatment-related toxicities in the remaining 11 transplant recipients 
were cardiomyopathy, hemorrhagic cystitis, persistent cytopenias, acute renal 
failure, abnormal liver function test results, and infectious complications. 
There were no treatment-related deaths. Eight of the 11 transplant recipients 
were alive, 6 without disease, at a median follow-up of 2.7 years. The estimated 
median 2-year event-free survival was 55%, and overall survival was 70%. We 
conclude that HDSC/AHCT in refractory/recurrent NHL is associated with 
considerable acute and chronic toxicities. Given the toxicity profile, efficacy 
data were not sufficiently promising to warrant further study.

DOI: 10.1016/s1083-8791(00)70065-6
PMID: 11071261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. World J Surg. 2000 Oct;24(10):1211-4. doi: 10.1007/s002680010207.

Urology in the twenty-first century: noninvasive targeted treatments for 
urologic malignancies.

Droller MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 
10029-6574, USA. sarah.mcdermott@smtplink.mssm.edu

Notwithstanding the major advances that have been made in the treatment of 
bladder cancer, prostate cancer, and kidney cancer, much remains to be done if 
we are to translate the gains that have been made in "disease-free survival" 
into actual survival in terms of quantity as well as quality of life. Indeed, we 
are still at an embryonic stage in understanding how cancers originate, whether 
defense mechanisms exist that can recognize these cancers and recognize them 
when they first develop, when cancers metastasize during their development, 
whether we have methods that are sufficiently accurate to distinguish between 
organ-confined and regional extension or spread of disease, and the means by 
which we can identify cancers that are likely to remain organ-confined and 
distinguish them from those that are predestined to metastasize. If we are to be 
successful in the assessment and treatment of various urologic cancers, these 
questions must be answered. Many new methods of assessment and treatment are 
being explored that in themselves may provide some answers. The present 
discussion focuses on these issues, on how they may lead to further 
understanding of the unique biology of many of these tumors, and what we may 
expect in terms of increased longevity and improved quality of life as we 
attempt to cure patients of their disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s002680010207
PMID: 11071464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2000 Nov 1;48(4):977-82. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00672-6.

A cost-outcome analysis of adjuvant postmastectomy locoregional radiotherapy in 
premenopausal node-positive breast cancer patients.

Dunscombe P(1), Samant R, Roberts G.

Author information:
(1)Northeastern Ontario Regional Cancer Centre, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. 
pdunscombe@neorcc.on.ca

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1376.

PURPOSE: To calculate cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios for adjuvant 
postmastectomy locoregional radiotherapy in premenopausal node-positive breast 
cancer patients and to place these ratios in the context of generally accepted 
medical expenditures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A spreadsheet-based activity costing model using 1997 
Canadian (cdn) capital, operating, and administrative costs has been used to 
identify, from the institutional perspective, the incremental cost of adding 
radiotherapy to surgery and chemotherapy for this group of patients. Outcome 
data were derived from two recently published clinical trials and were converted 
to discounted incremental life years and quality-adjusted life years gained. 
Recommended health economics principles were employed in the quantification of 
both costs and outcomes, and a sensitivity analysis was performed. Three 
referenced publications provide a context within which to evaluate the 
calculated cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of adjuvant radiotherapy for this group of 
patients is calculated to be approximately $7,000cdn in 1997 Canadian dollars 
and in the Canadian socialized health-care environment. Based on published work 
the discounted incremental outcome benefit is calculated to be 0.5 life years or 
0.45 quality-adjusted life years at ten years. Thus, cost effectiveness and 
cost-utility ratios are estimated to be $14,000cdn and $15,600cdn, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Within the context of generally accepted medical expenditures, 
adjuvant postmastectomy locoregional radiotherapy for premenopausal 
node-positive breast cancer patients would be regarded as a cost-effective 
treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00672-6
PMID: 11072153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2000 Nov 1;48(4):1025-33. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00713-6.

The cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of high-dose palliative radiotherapy for 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.

Coy P(1), Schaafsma J, Schofield JA.

Author information:
(1)Vancouver Island Cancer Centre, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Victoria, BC, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: To compute cost-effectiveness/cost-utility (CE/CU) ratios, from the 
treatment clinic and societal perspectives, for high-dose palliative 
radiotherapy treatment (RT) for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
against best supportive care (BSC) as comparator, and thereby demonstrate a 
method for computing CE/CU ratios when randomized clinical trial (RCT) data 
cannot be generated.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Unit cost estimates based on an earlier reported 1989-90 
analysis of treatment costs at the Vancouver Island Cancer Centre, Victoria, 
British Columbia, Canada, are updated to 1997-1998 and then used to compute the 
incremental cost of an average dose of high-dose palliative RT. The incremental 
number of life days and quality-adjusted life days (QALDs) attributable to 
treatment are from earlier reported regression analyses of the survival and 
quality-of-life data from patients who enrolled prospectively in a lung cancer 
management cost-effectiveness study at the clinic over a 2-year period from 1990 
to 1992.
RESULTS: The baseline CE and CU ratios are $9245 Cdn per life year (LY) and 
$12,836 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY), respectively, from the clinic 
perspective; and $12,253/LY and $17,012/QALY, respectively, from the societal 
perspective. Multivariate sensitivity analysis for the CE ratio produces a range 
of $5513-28,270/LY from the clinic perspective, and $7307-37,465/LY from the 
societal perspective. Similar calculations for the CU ratio produce a range of 
$7205-37, 134/QALY from the clinic perspective, and $9550-49,213/QALY from the 
societal perspective.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness and cost utility of high-dose palliative RT 
for advanced NSCLC compares favorably with the cost effectiveness of other forms 
of treatment for NSCLC, of treatments of other forms of cancer, and of many 
other commonly used medical interventions; and lies within the US $50, 000/QALY 
benchmark often cited for cost-effective care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00713-6
PMID: 11072159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Nov;36(17):2177-88. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00330-0.

Overview of important cervical cancer screening process values in European Union 
(EU) countries, and tentative predictions of the corresponding effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness.

van Ballegooijen M(1), van den Akker-van Marle E, Patnick J, Lynge E, Arbyn M, 
Anttila A, Ronco G, Dik J, Habbema F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
vanmarle@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

The objective was the evaluation of the (cost-)effectiveness of cervical cancer 
screening in the European Union (EU) countries. Data were collected on 
recommended screening age ranges and intervals, coverage, proportion of 
non-negative smears and smear use. Estimates reported by representatives of each 
participating Member State were compared, and used as input for model based on 
(using the MISCAN simulation model for cancer screening) effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness calculations. Differences in coverage from below 50 to 82% 
resulted in more or less proportional differences in expected percentage 
life-years lost reduction, almost regardless of differences in 7-50+ smears 
recommended in a lifetime. Differences in screening intensity (resulting from 
the recommended number of smears per lifetime and the number of excess smears on 
top of these recommendations) resulted in more than 2-fold difference in the 
expected number of smears per percentage life-years lost reduction. 
(Cost-)effectiveness predictions would have greatly improved if estimates of 
long-term coverage had also been available. To conclude, estimates for a 
restricted set of well defined parameters - a few for short and long-term 
coverage and one for the total number of smears - are quite useful for 
country-specific (cost-)effectiveness evaluations. The main, and to some extent, 
unsolvable problem for further improvement of the analysis is the lack of 
reliable country-specific estimates for the background risk of cervical cancer 
in women eligible for screening in the near future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00330-0
PMID: 11072201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Med J Malaysia. 1999 Dec;54(4):459-70.

Outcome assessment of the Ministry of Health Malaysia dialysis programme.

Lim TO(1), Lim YN, Wong HS, Ahmad G, Singam TS, Morad Z, Suleiman AB, Rozina G, 
Ong LM, Hooi LS, Shaariah W, Tan CC, Loo CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Kuala Lumpur.

We describe the outcomes on haemodialysis (HD) and continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) provided by the Ministry of Health (MOH). The 
assessment was based on data from the Malaysian Dialysis Registry on 2480 HD and 
732 CAPD patients who commenced dialysis between 1980 and 1996. Young patients 
(age < 40) have remarkable long term survival (life expectancies of 16 years on 
HD, 18 years on CAPD). Adjusting for background mortality, relative survival of 
older patients was as good as younger ones. Diabetics did poorly. 52% of HD and 
26% of CAPD patients were employed in 1996. 71% of HD patients scored 10(normal) 
on QL index (a measure of quality of life) while 60% of CAPD patients have 
similar score. Differences in rehabilitation and QL index scores by age, gender 
and diabetes were also observed. Outcomes of dialysis in the MOH programme are 
reassuring.

PMID: 11072463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2000 Oct 14;144(42):1995-2000.

[Islet amyloid and diabetes mellitus type 2].

[Article in Dutch]

H√∂ppener JW(1), Nieuwenhuis MG, Vroom TM, Lips CJ.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Endocrinologie, Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht. 
j.w.m.hoeppener@lab.azu.nl

Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a heterogeneous and multifactorial disorder 
accompanied by severe complications and a reduced life expectancy. 
Histopathologically, it is characterized by deposition of protein in the islets 
of Langerhans in the pancreas ('islet amyloid'). The 37 amino acids 'islet 
amyloid polypeptide' (IAPP) was discovered in 1986 as the building block of 
islet amyloid. The identification of IAPP caused an intensification of research 
on islet amyloid. In the past few years, particularly transgenic mouse 
technology has shown that islet amyloidosis is a consequence as well as an 
(additional) cause in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Islet amyloid has 
turned out to be a pathogenic factor, which is accompanied by death of 
beta-cells and reduction of the insulin producing capacity. This knowledge 
offers opportunities for the development of novel (preventive) therapy and thus 
for a better life expectancy of persons which develop type 2 diabetes.

PMID: 11072517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2000;257(8):445-8. doi: 10.1007/s004050000257.

Sarcomatoid carcinoma of the pyriform sinus with brain and subcutaneous 
metastases: an unusual metastatic spread pattern.

Hardisson D(1), De Diego JI, Prim MP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Anatom√≠a Patol√≥gica, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, 
Spain. dhardiss@idecnet.com

A 63-year-old man presented a polypoid tumor in the laryngeal space involving 
the right pyriform fossa. The patient underwent a total laryngectomy with 
bilateral functional neck dissection, and the diagnosis of sarcomatoid carcinoma 
with malignant fibrous histiocytoma-like stroma was established. The tumor 
showed an uncommon behavior, with distant metastases to the brain and to the 
subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall. The patient died 1 year after the 
development of the metastases. Despite its polypoid pattern of growth, 
sarcomatoid carcinoma of the larynx may behave very aggressively. It is 
important for clinicians to be aware of the possibility of distant subcutaneous 
and brain metastases in sarcomatoid tumors of the laryngeal space. If such 
metastases develop, the prognosis is ominous, with an average life expectancy of 
3 months.

DOI: 10.1007/s004050000257
PMID: 11073196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Bacteriol. 2000 Dec;182(23):6630-7. doi: 10.1128/JB.182.23.6630-6637.2000.

