
DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8227(00)00216-3
PMID: 11080562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Arthritis Care Res. 1999 Dec;12(6):425-34. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(199912)12:6<425::aid-art11>3.0.co;2-a.

A review of economic evaluation in osteoporosis.

Cranney A(1), Coyle D, Welch V, Lee KM, Tugwell P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Loeb Research Unit, Ottawa Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(199912)12:6<425::aid-art11>3.0.co;2-a
PMID: 11081014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nouv Com Int Cathol Infirm Assist Med Soc. 1998;(1-2):2.

Childbirth in the forthcoming millennium.

Finnegan M.

PMID: 11081041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ther Umsch. 2000 Oct;57(10):617-27. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.10.617.

[Gynecological problems of the aging woman].

[Article in German]

Lauritzen C(1).

Author information:
(1)Forschungsinstitut für Gynäkologische Endokrinologie, Sterilität und 
Menopause, Ulm.

The increasing number of old aged women requires the establishment of geriatric 
gynecology as a new subspecialty of our profession. The care of senior women in 
the gynecologists office should not be limited to the conventional gynecological 
diseases. These are of course dealt with in this paper; however should also be 
included, in a new understanding and broadening of our specialty, the 
women-specific diseases of old age. These extragenital diseases are therefore 
also touched upon. This extension of gynecology follows logically from the broad 
spectrum of effects of the female sexual hormones in the hands of the 
gynecologists and especially of long-term estrogen substitution into many 
neighbour medical specialties, like internal medicine, orthopedics, psychiatry 
and others. The gynecologist must have a working knowledge of these 
women-diseases including their physiopathology, differential diagnosis, 
treatment and, above all, prevention. The new understanding is moreover based 
upon the unique position of the gynecologist in the regular prevention and last, 
not least, upon the special confidence of the clients to their women-doctor and 
upon the special human intimacy in the relation between female patients and 
gynecologists. The care of senior women today includes life style counseling 
with the aim of prevention of preventable diseases. Also these points of view 
are touched upon. Medicine, which has given thirty additional years to the life 
of women, has also to take the responsibility to preserve physical and mental 
wellness through this segment of existence in good life quality saving the 
seniors from suffering of the preventable diseases of old age.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.10.617
PMID: 11081373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Anticancer Drugs. 2000 Sep;11(8):603-7. doi:
10.1097/00001813-200009000-00001.

Chemotherapy versus palliative care in non-small cell lung cancer.

Nicum S(1), Cullen MH.

Author information:
(1)The Cancer Centre at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University Hospital 
Birmingham NHS Trust, UK.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the world's leading cause of cancer death 
and about 75% of all patients have advanced disease incurable with localized 
treatments (surgery and radiotherapy) alone. The aims of therapy in these are 
palliation of symptoms and extension of life. A substantial body of evidence has 
emerged in the last 15 years which shows that cisplatin-based combination 
chemotherapy prolongs life in advanced NSCLC. This evidence, which was well 
summarized in a major meta-analysis published in 1995, indicated that the degree 
of impact on survival is modest. Hence the balance between survival benefit and 
treatment-related toxicity is crucial in all considerations of chemotherapy in 
this disease. More recently this balance has been altered by considerable 
progress in the reduction of treatment-related toxicity and by documentation of 
lung cancer symptom palliation by effective chemotherapy. In 1999 a randomized 
trial of mitomycin, ifosfamide and cisplatin versus palliative care in 351 
patients demonstrated a significant survival advantage for those receiving 
chemotherapy, which did not compromise their quality of life. This review looks 
forward to further progress employing newer agents both as first- and 
second-line chemotherapy in advanced NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-200009000-00001
PMID: 11081450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Invest New Drugs. 2000 Nov;18(4):315-29. doi: 10.1023/a:1006476730671.

Conceptual changes in cancer chemotherapy: from an oral fluoropyrimidine 
prodrug, UFT, to a novel oral fluoropyrimidine prodrug, S-1, and low-dose FP 
therapy in Japan.

Shirasaka T(1), Yamamitsu S, Tsuji A, Taguchi T.

Author information:
(1)Lab. Pathogenic Biochemistry in Medicine, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 
Tokyo, Japan.

The conventional concept in cancer chemotherapy considers that no efficacy can 
be attained without provoking adverse reactions. We presented concrete 
descriptions based on a novel concept allowing us to emerge from the old one. 
Relief of adverse reactions, e.g., diarrhea, stomatitis, anorexia, and H&F 
syndrome, not only improves QOL of the patient but also allows prolongation of 
the treatment period without lowering patient compliance. We describe in this 
paper a therapeutic modality which is based on SRC (self-rescuing concept) 
featuring dual activity, i.e., effect-enhancing activity and adverse 
reaction-reducing activity. We present the theory and practice of S-1, a novel 
oral fluoropyrimidine anticancer agent designed to enhance anticancer activity 
and reduce gastrointestinal toxicity through the deliberate combination of the 
following components: an oral fluoropyrimidine agent tegafur; a DPD inhibitor 
(CDHP) which is more potent than uracil used in UFT; and an ORTC inhibitor (Oxo) 
which localizes in the gastrointestinal tract. Furthermore, we refer to 
combination therapy with 5-FU (CIV) and low-dose consecutive CDDP in which CDDP 
was used as a modulator of 5-FU and to the theory and practice of combination 
therapy with 5-FU (CVI) intermittent (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) 
administration and low-dose CDDP consecutive administration in which a 
difference in cell cycle between gastrointestinal mucosal cell and tumor cell or 
between bone marrow cell and tumor cell was utilized. We intend in future to 
combine the abovementioned therapeutic modalities provoking less adverse 
reactions and being gentle to patients with cancer in an effort to further 
increase their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006476730671
PMID: 11081568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Chronic Dis Can. 2000;21(3):104-13.

A deprivation index for health and welfare planning in Quebec.

Pampalon R(1), Raymond G.

Author information:
(1)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, chemin Sainte-Foy, Québec G1S 
2L4. robert.pampalon@msss.gouv.qc.ca

Given that one of the goals of public health policy in Quebec and Canada is to 
reduce social inequalities in health and welfare, it is surprising, to say the 
least, that most information systems in this field make no mention of people's 
socio-economic characteristics. The present article proposes an index to reflect 
the material and social dimensions of deprivation as this concept has been 
developed by Peter Townsend and other authors. The article describes the method 
used to create the index, which uses census data and tools developed by 
Statistics Canada to match postal codes with enumeration areas. Examples are 
provided of the use of the index in information systems covering three aspects 
of health and welfare in Quebec: deaths, hospitalizations and births. The value 
of the information provided by this index in planning health and social services 
is demonstrated.

PMID: 11082346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. J Neurooncol. 2000 Jun;48(2):95-101. doi: 10.1023/a:1006420921159.

Investigation of genetic alterations associated with development and adverse 
outcome in patients with astrocytic tumor.

Cianciulli AM(1), Morace E, Coletta AM, Occhipinti E, Gandolfo GM, Leonardo G, 
Carapella CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Regina Elena Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. 
cianciulli@crs.ifo.it

Models describing progression in the genetic derangement of glial tumors have 
shown chromosomal loss and gain occurring most frequently in high-grade lesions, 
suggesting that identification of these aberrations may be prognostically 
significant. In this study, Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) has been 
used to determine, and to confirm, loss and gain of chromosomes 1, 8, 10, 12 and 
17, in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brain biopsy tissue taken from 60 brain 
gliomas submitted to surgical resection or stereotactic biopsy. FISH analysis 
may be a valuable adjunct to histological grading. The results showed that this 
molecular cytogenetic technique is an important clinical and experimental tool 
that provides new insight on genetic alterations, confirming gain and loss of 
genetic material that occurs at the initiation and progression of human glioma. 
Our data suggests that potentially useful prognostic information may be obtained 
through this approach. Monosomy 10 was the most statistically significant 
negative predictor of patient survival, showing a significant correlation with 
the histological grading.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006420921159
PMID: 11083072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. J Neurooncol. 2000 Jun;48(2):121-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1006462618800.

Distinct radiochemotherapy protocols differentially influence cellular 
proliferation and expression of p53 and Bcl-2 in glioblastoma multiforme 
relapses in vivo.

Deininger MH(1), Grote E, Wickboldt J, Meyermann R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Brain Research, University of Tuebingen Medical School, Germany. 
hirnforschung@uni-tuebingen.de

Several protocols for the adjuvant treatment of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) 
are currently being evaluated. In this context, little is known about the 
influence of radiochemotherapy on apoptosis and the expression of 
apoptosis-related proteins in vivo. We have analyzed the incidence of apoptosis 
using in situ nick translation (ISNT) and expression of Ki-67 (MIB- 1), p53 
(DO-1 and DO-7), Bcl-2 and transglutaminase II (TGase II) by 
immunohistochemistry in 41 patients with GBM and their matched relapses. Sixteen 
patients received radiochemotherapy, 18 irradiation and 7 no treatment. 
Radiochemotherapy resulted in an increase in Bcl-2+ cells (p = 0.013). 
Irradiation caused the reduction of MIB-1+ (p = 0.0015), DO-7+ (p = 0.0043) and 
the increase of Bcl-2+ cells (p = 0.016). We calculated a positive correlation 
between high TGase II scores in patients preceding radiochemotherapy (p = 
0.0186) and no treatment (p = 0.0158), low ISNT scores (p = 0.0018) and high 
DO-1 scores (p = 0.0233) in patients preceding irradiation and short time to 
progression. These data show that distinct postsurgical radiochemotherapy 
protocols differentially alter cellular proliferation and expression of p53 and 
Bcl-2 in GBM relapses. Furthermore, we show that ISNT, DO-I and TGase II 
labeling scores are therapy-specific predictors of time to progression in GBM 
patients.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006462618800
PMID: 11083075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Neurooncol. 2000 Jun;48(2):135-40. doi: 10.1023/a:1006477905230.

Postoperative radiation therapy for pituitary adenoma.

Isobe K(1), Ohta M, Yasuda' S, Uno T, Hara R, Machida N, Saeki N, Yamaura A, 
Shigematsu N, Ito H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Chiba University, School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We evaluated the efficacy of postoperative radiation therapy (RT), 
prognostic factors for local control probability, dose response relationship and 
treatment sequelae in 75 patients with pituitary adenoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total dose of 48-60 Gy (median: 50 Gy) was delivered 
with a conventional fractionation schedule after surgery. Of 75 patients, 55 
(73%) were followed for more than 5 years and 27 (36%) were followed for more 
than 10 years with a median of 95 months.
RESULTS: Five- and 10-year local control probabilities were 87.1% and 85.0%, 
respectively. Univariate analysis revealed that age (p = 0.007), tumor volume 
smaller than 30 cm3 (p = 0.018) and the absence of prolactin secretion (p = 
0.003) were significantly favorable prognostic factors for local control 
probability. After multivariate analysis combining these 3 factors, tumor volume 
smaller than 30 cm3 (p = 0.017) and age (p = 0.039) were statistically 
significant. Patients with prolactinoma greater than 30 cm3 showed particularly 
poor local control rates. No significant improvement of the local control rate 
was detected with increasing total irradiation doses between 48 and 60 Gy (p = 
0.29). The most common side effect was hypopituitarism, and there were no severe 
sequelae such as optic neuropathy or brain necrosis.
CONCLUSION: Except with prolactinoma, the dose of postoperative RT for pituitary 
adenoma should not exceed 50 Gy. Large prolactinoma, however, was very difficult 
to control with the irradiation doses between 50 and 60 Gy, and would be good 
candidates for stereotactic radiosurgery or stereotactic radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006477905230
PMID: 11083077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. J Neurooncol. 2000 Jun;48(2):151-60. doi: 10.1023/a:1006434124794.

Management of atypical and malignant meningiomas: role of high-dose, 
3D-conformal radiation therapy.

Hug EB(1), Devries A, Thornton AF, Munzenride JE, Pardo FS, Hedley-Whyte ET, 
Bussiere MR, Ojemann R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Eugen.Hug@Hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVE: Atypical and malignant meningiomas are at high risk for local 
failure. The role of radiation therapy (RT) and dose levels required to improve 
tumor control are poorly defined. This study reviews our experience with RT.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty-one patients underwent fractionated RT for atypical 
(AM, 15 patients) or malignant meningioma (MM, 16 patients) of the cranium. 
Sixteen patients presented with primary and 15 with recurrent disease. Eight 
patients received RT following total resection, 21 patients after subtotal 
resection and 2 patient following biopsy only. RT was given using megavoltage 
photons in 15 patients and combined photons and 160 MeV protons in 16 patients. 
Total target doses ranged from 50 to 68 (AM, mean 62) and from 40 to 72 (MM, 
mean 58) Gy or CGE (= cobalt-gray-equivalent).
RESULTS: With mean observation time of 59 months (range: 7-155 months) actuarial 
local control rates at 5- and 8-years were similar for both histologies (38% and 
19% for AM and 52 and 17% for MM). However, significantly improved local control 
was observed for proton versus photon RT (80% versus 17% at 5 years, p = 0.003) 
and target doses > or = 60 Gy for both, atypical (p = 0.025) and malignant 
meningioma (p = 0.0006). At time of analysis, 14/15 patients (93%) with AM and 
6/16 (38%) with MM were alive. Three patients (19%) with MM developed distant 
metastasis. Actuarial 5- and 8-year survival rates for MM were significantly 
improved by use of proton over photon RT and radiation doses > 60 CGE. Three 
patients developed symptomatic radiation damage after 59.3, 68.4 and 72 Gy/CGE.
CONCLUSION: Conformal, high dose RT resulted in significant improvement of local 
control for atypical and malignant meningiomas. Increased local control resulted 
also in improved rates of survival for patients with malignant meningioma.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006434124794
PMID: 11083080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Nov;48(11):1367-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb02624.x.

The protective effect of social engagement on mortality in long-term care.

Kiely DK(1), Simon SE, Jones RN, Morris JN.

Author information:
(1)Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged Research and Training Institute, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02131, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the effect of social engagement (SE) on mortality in 
long-term care.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: A 725-bed long-term care facility.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 927 long-term care residents who had SE measurements 
and did not have a serious communication problem.
MEASUREMENTS: Minimum Data Set information including psychosocial items 
comprising an internally reliable and valid SE scale, and mortality risk factor 
measurements. Mortality data during the 1,721-day follow-up period was obtained 
from facility records.
RESULTS: Life table analyses indicate that higher levels of SE are associated 
with longer survival (P = .0001). Unadjusted proportional hazards analyses show 
that residents who did not engage socially were 2.3 times more likely to die 
during the follow-up period compared with residents who were the most socially 
engaged. Multivariate adjusted analyses showed the protective effect of SE on 
mortality remained even after simultaneously adjusting for mortality risk 
factors. Residents who did not engage socially were 1.4 times as likely to die 
during the follow-up period compared with residents who were the most socially 
engaged.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased levels of SE were associated with longer survival 
independent of mortality risk factors. SE may be a modifiable risk factor for 
death among long-term care residents. More research is needed to understand 
psychological factors that may influence residents' desire and ability to engage 
socially.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb02624.x
PMID: 11083310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Eur J Nucl Med. 2000 Oct;27(10):1441-56. doi: 10.1007/s002590000324.

Cost-effectiveness of FDG-PET for the management of solitary pulmonary nodules: 
a decision analysis based on cost reimbursement in Germany.

Dietlein M(1), Weber K, Gandjour A, Moka D, Theissen P, Lauterbach KW, Schicha 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Cologne, Germany.

Management of solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs) of up to 3 cm was modelled on 
decision analysis comparing "wait and watch", transthoracic needle biopsy (TNB), 
exploratory surgery and full-ring dedicated positron emission tomography (PET) 
using fluorine-18 2-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were calculated for the main risk group, a cohort of 62-year-old 
men, using first "wait and watch" and second exploratory surgery as the baseline 
strategy. Based on published data, the sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET 
were estimated at 0.95 and 0.80 for detecting malignancy in SPNs and at 0.74 and 
0.96 for detecting metastasis in normal-sized mediastinal lymph nodes. The costs 
quoted correspond to reimbursement in 1999 by the public health provider in 
Germany. Decision analysis modelling indicates the potential cost-effectiveness 
of the FDG-PET strategy for management of SPNs. Taking watchful waiting as the 
low-cost baseline strategy, the ICER of PET [3218 euros (EUR) per life year 
saved] was more favourable than that of exploratory surgery (4210 EUR/year) or 
that of TNB (6120 EUR/year). Changing the baseline strategy to exploratory 
surgery, the use of PET led to cost savings and additional life expectancy. This 
constellation was described by a negative ICER of -6912 EUR/year. The PET 
algorithm was cost-effective for risk and non-risk patients. However, the ICER 
of PET as the preferred strategy was sensitive to a hypothetical deterioration 
of any PET parameters by more than 0.07. To transfer the diagnostic efficacy 
from controlled studies to the routine user and to maintain the 
cost-effectiveness of this technology, obligatory protocols for data 
acquisitions would need to be defined. If the prevalence of SPNs is estimated at 
the USA level (52 per 100,000 individuals) and assuming that multiple strategies 
without PET are the norm, the overall costs of a newly implemented PET algorithm 
would be limited to far less than one EUR per member of the public health 
provider in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s002590000324
PMID: 11083532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Thorax. 2000 Dec;55(12):1000-6. doi: 10.1136/thorax.55.12.1000.

How well do we care for patients with end stage chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD)? A comparison of palliative care and quality of life in COPD and 
lung cancer.

Gore JM(1), Brophy CJ, Greenstone MA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, University of Hull, Hull, East Yorkshire.

Comment in
    Thorax. 2000 Dec;55(12):979-81.

BACKGROUND: Patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
have a poor quality of life and limited life expectancy. This study examined 
whether these patients were relatively disadvantaged in terms of medical and 
social care compared with a group with inoperable lung cancer.
METHODS: An open two group comparison was made of 50 patients with severe COPD 
(forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)) <0.75 l and at least one 
admission for hypercapnic respiratory failure) and 50 patients with unresectable 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). A multi-method design was used involving 
standardised quality of life tools, semi-structured interviews, and review of 
documentation.
RESULTS: The patients with COPD had significantly worse activities of daily 
living and physical, social, and emotional functioning than the patients with 
NSCLC (p<0.05). The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) scores 
suggested that 90% of patients with COPD suffered clinically relevant anxiety or 
depression compared with 52% of patients with NSCLC. Patients were generally 
satisfied with the medical care received, but only 4% in each group were 
formally assessed or treated for mental health problems. With regard to social 
support, the main difference between the groups was that, while 30% of patients 
with NSCLC received help from specialist palliative care services, none of the 
patients with COPD had access to a similar system of specialist care. Finally, 
patients in both groups reported a lack of information from professionals 
regarding diagnosis, prognosis and social support, although patients' 
information needs were disparate and often conflicting.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that patients with end stage COPD have 
significantly impaired quality of life and emotional well being which may not be 
as well met as those of patients with lung cancer, nor do they receive holistic 
care appropriate to their needs.

DOI: 10.1136/thorax.55.12.1000
PMCID: PMC1745647
PMID: 11083884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ann Otolaryngol Chir Cervicofac. 2000 Nov;117(5):313-21.

Contribution of artificial intelligence to the knowledge of prognostic factors 
in laryngeal carcinoma.

Zapater E(1), Moreno S, Fortea MA, Campos A, Armengot M, Basterra J.

Author information:
(1)ENT Department, Valencia University General Hospital, Valencia University 
Medical School, Spain. ezapater@ctv.es

Many studies have investigated prognostic factors in laryngeal carcinoma, with 
sometimes conflicting results. Apart from the importance of environmental 
factors, the different statistical methods employed may have influenced such 
discrepancies. A program based on artificial intelligence techniques is designed 
to determine the prognostic factors in a series of 122 laryngeal carcinomas. The 
results obtained are compared with those derived from two classical statistical 
methods (Cox regression and mortality tables). Tumor location was found to be 
the most important prognostic factor by all methods. The proposed intelligent 
system is found to be a sound method capable of detecting exceptional cases.

PMID: 11084405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Bull Cancer. 2000 Oct;87(10):755-9.

[Main indicators used for the descriptive analysis of medical causes of death].

[Article in French]

Michel E(1), Jougla E.

Author information:
(1)Inserm SCB, Service d'information sur le causes médicales de décès, Le 
Vésinet.

PMID: 11084539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Health Technol Assess. 2000;4(26):1-69.

Implantable cardioverter defibrillators: arrhythmias. A rapid and systematic 
review.

Parkes J(1), Bryant J, Milne R.

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

PROPOSED SERVICE: The service proposed is the use of implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators (ICDs) in the management of risk factors leading to sudden 
cardiac death (SCD). ICDs are similar in size to a pacemaker and are intended to 
prevent death due to life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
EPIDEMIOLOGY AND BACKGROUND: SCD occurs in approximately 100,000 people annually 
in the UK and is usually due to ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Increasing numbers 
of people are surviving a first episode of ventricular tachyarrhythmia and are 
at high risk of further episodes. Standard treatments for those at high risk 
have been anti-arrhythmic drugs, catheter ablation or surgery and, increasingly, 
vasodilating beta-blockers.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for the period 1980-99. In addition, 
bibliographies of related papers were assessed for relevant studies, and experts 
were contacted to identify additional published and unpublished references. 
Studies were included if they were systematic reviews, meta-analyses or 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ICDs with conventional therapy in 
people at high risk of SCD.
NUMBER AND QUALITY OF STUDIES AND DIRECTION OF EVIDENCE: Seven RCTs on 
effectiveness the majority of which were of good quality, eight 
cost-effectiveness analyses most of which were older studies and based on non-UK 
data, and two good-quality literature reviews one of which was a critical 
appraisal of the literature of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ICD 
therapy, and the other a review of the cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy. These 
showed changes in absolute risk of total mortality ranging from an increase of 
1.7% to a reduction of 22.8% (relative risk reductions of -7% to +54%).
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS: Estimated benefits from RCT data are 0.23-0.8 additional 
years of life with ICD therapy compared with anti-arrhythmic drug therapy.
COSTS: Unit cost of ICDs (based on 1999/2000 prices), ranges from pound 12,500 
to pound 22,000. Total discounted costs for 3 years range from pound 20,000 to 
pound 29,000. COST-EFFECTIVENESS: Cost-effectiveness estimates in the literature 
identified range from $11,000 to $146,000 per life-year saved. Using UK cost 
data from three hospitals and trial survival data from one RCT, the estimate of 
cost-effectiveness from this review ranges between pound 20,250 and pound 87,000 
per life-year saved. COST-UTILITY: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year is 
estimated by the authors of this review at pound 21,300 to pound 108,800 (using 
survival data from one trial and quality-of-life indices derived from clinical 
opinion). These figures remain speculative until quality-of-life data from 
ongoing trials are available to inform future UK cost-effectiveness/utility 
analyses.
IMPLICATIONS: If implemented for indications supported by evidence from RCTs, 
ICDs may cost the NHS in excess of pound 24 million per annum.
FUTURE RESEARCH: Future research should include the use of British Pacing and 
Electrophysiological Group registries to assess the use of different types of 
ICD and current service provision.

PMID: 11086270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Demography. 2000 Nov;37(4):477-88. doi: 10.1353/dem.2000.0004.

Understanding the sex ratio in India: a simulation approach.

Griffiths P(1), Matthews Z, Hinde A.

Author information:
(1)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 27516, 
USA.

The highly masculine sex ratio in India has increased substantially in the 
twentieth century, in contrast to most other countries in the world. Competing 
arguments alternatively posit under-enumeration, highly masculine sex ratios at 
birth, or excess female mortality throughout the life course as the factors 
underlying the level of the overall sex ratio; these arguments have not been 
resolved. Based on population projections that simulate population dynamics, our 
findings show that small differences in mortality at young ages, persisting over 
a long period, as well as a sex ratio at birth of 106 males per 100 females, 
result in a highly masculine population sex ratio.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2000.0004
PMID: 11086573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Psychol Rep. 2000 Oct;87(2):367-72. doi: 10.2466/pr0.2000.87.2.367.

Development, gender equality, and suicide rates.

Mayer P(1).

Author information:
(1)Politics Department, University of Adelaide, Australia.

A component of the United Nations Development Programme Human Development Index 
which measures longevity was negatively associated -.55 with suicide rates in 37 
nations for men; the correlation with the suicide sex ratio was also negative (r 
= -.59). Women's access to social, political, and economic power in a subsample 
of 26 nations, summarized in the UNDP's Gender Empowerment Measure, was 
positively correlated with suicide rates (r = .36 for both women and men). UNDP 
measures of attainment in literacy and income showed no individual relationship 
with suicide rates. In a multiple regression model, life expectancy was 
negatively related, and the Gender-related Development index was positively 
related, to suicide rates.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.2000.87.2.367
PMID: 11086579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. J Hum Hypertens. 2000 Oct;14 Suppl 2:S11-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001071.

Benefits and pitfalls of cardiovascular risk assessment.

Poulter NR(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Studies Unit, Imperial College School of Medicine, London, UK.

One of the most important challenges facing modern preventative medicine is the 
problem of how best to identify and treat those at highest risk of developing 
cardiovascular disease, for whom appropriate management (ranging from lifestyle 
modification to therapeutic regimens) can improve both duration and quality of 
life. The use of risk assessment can contribute greatly to identifying those 
individuals who will benefit from risk-reducing interventions. However, 
assessment tools must always be used with care because some are not sufficiently 
accurate, while most systems are subject to an ageist bias because they do not 
take into account the benefits of long-term treatment or risk. Nonetheless, 
assessment techniques can provide a more logical approach to patient management, 
predict short-term benefits, and provide accurate data to substantiate a 
physician's clinical judgement.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001071
PMID: 11086631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Ann Med. 2000 Oct;32(7):452-61. doi: 10.3109/07853890009002020.

Should we start and continue growth hormone (GH) replacement therapy in adults 
with GH deficiency?

ter Maaten JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Groningen, The 
Netherlands. j.c.ter.maaten@int.azg.nl

During the last decade, growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in adults has been 
described as a clinical syndrome. Central features of this entity include 
increased fat mass, reduced muscle and bone mass, as well as impaired exercise 
capacity and quality of life. GH replacement therapy has been initiated on a 
wide scale, but patients do not profit equally from this expensive therapy. The 
decision to start and continue GH replacement should be made individually for 
each patient. An eligible patient should have a clear diagnosis of GHD. In 
addition, GH replacement therapy should be efficacious. Especially, the unique 
and valuable effects of GH replacement on exercise performance and quality of 
life are strong arguments in favour of continuation of therapy. In osteopenic 
patients, GH replacement increases bone mass. Also, GH induces improvements in 
the cardiovascular risk profile. However, it has not yet been proved whether GH 
replacement reduces the incidence of bone fractures and cardiovascular mortality 
and improves life expectancy. Thus far, long-term physiological GH replacement 
does not appear to be complicated by adverse effects. Therefore, available 
evidence warrants continuation of long-term GH replacement therapy in patients 
with a clear-cut diagnosis of GHD who demonstrate beneficial effects of this 
therapy, especially with regard to exercise performance and quality of life.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890009002020
PMID: 11087165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Arch Dis Child. 2000 Dec;83(6):468-74. doi: 10.1136/adc.83.6.468.

Effect of severity of disability on survival in north east England cerebral 
palsy cohort.

Hutton JL(1), Colver AF, Mackie PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Newcastle, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE1 
7RU, UK. j.l.hutton@warwick.ac.uk

Comment in
    Arch Dis Child. 2001 Nov;85(5):442.

AIMS: To investigate the effect of motor and cognitive disabilities on the 
survival of people on the North of England Collaborative Cerebral Palsy Survey, 
and compare this with other published results.
METHODS: The cerebral palsy cohort consists of 1960-1990 births in 
Northumberland, Newcastle, and North Tyneside health districts. Survival and 
cause of death were analysed in relation to data on birth, disabilities, and a 
unique measure of the impact of disability.
RESULTS: Disability strongly influences survival. More than a third of those 
with a severe disability die before age 30. Fewer than a third of deaths are 
attributed to cerebral palsy on death certificates. Of those with severe 
cognitive disability, 63% live to age 35 (58% with severe ambulatory disability 
and 53% with severe manual disability), whereas at least 98% without severe 
disabilities live to age 35. The Lifestyle Assessment Score (LAS) allows a finer 
categorisation of impact of disability, and is strongly associated with 
survival: a ten point increase in LAS is associated with a doubling of the 
hazard rate. People who had LAS of at least 70, and had survived to age 5 have a 
39% chance of dying before age 35.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of people with cerebral palsy attain adulthood. There 
appears to be more variation in survival rates associated with severe disability 
between regions of England, than between north east England, British Columbia, 
and California. Instantaneous risks of dying vary widely between England and 
California. This variation is not obviously attributable to differing rates of 
severe disability.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.83.6.468
PMCID: PMC1718577
PMID: 11087278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Ann Rheum Dis. 2000 Dec;59(12):954-8. doi: 10.1136/ard.59.12.954.

No increased mortality in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: up to 10 years of 
follow up from disease onset.

Kroot EJ(1), van Leeuwen MA, van Rijswijk MH, Prevoo ML, Van 't Hof MA, van De 
Putte LB, van Riel PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University Medical Centre Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. E.Kroot@reuma.azn.nl

OBJECTIVE: To investigate mortality, functional capacity, and prognostic factors 
for mortality in an inception cohort of patients with recently diagnosed RA 
followed up for up to 10 years.
METHODS: The observed mortality of this inception cohort with recently diagnosed 
RA, was analysed in relation to the expected mortality, calculated with the aid 
of life tables of the general population of the Netherlands (matched for age and 
sex). Functional capacity was measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire. 
Prognostic factors for mortality were analysed multivariately by the Cox 
proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: Between January 1985 and April 1997, 622 patients entered the study, 
and were included in the analysis of mortality. The death rate in the first 10 
years of the disease was not significantly different from that of the general 
population. Fifty five patients from the study group died (16% up to 10 years of 
follow up). The most commonly reported causes of death were of cardiovascular 
and respiratory origin. The other causes of death could be classified into 
cancer, sepsis, amyloidosis, leukaemia, renal insufficiency of unknown cause, 
perforation of the oesophagus, probably related to the treatment with 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and pancytopenia during aurothioglucose 
treatment. Functional capacity improved significantly during the first six years 
compared with the value at start. Statistically significant predictors for death 
were age at the start and male sex.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast with earlier studies performed, no excess mortality in 
the first 10 years of an inception cohort of patients with RA was seen. In 
addition, the functional capacity was relatively constant during the first six 
years after an initial improvement from baseline. Age at start and male sex were 
the only statistically significant predictors for death.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.59.12.954
PMCID: PMC1753055
PMID: 11087698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Ann Rheum Dis. 2000 Dec;59(12):966-74. doi: 10.1136/ard.59.12.966.

Responsiveness of the core set, response criteria, and utilities in early 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Verhoeven AC(1), Boers M, van Der Linden S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology/Internal Medicine, University Hospital Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Validation of responsiveness and discriminative power of the World 
Health Organisation/International League of Associations for Rheumatology 
(WHO/ILAR) core set, the American College of Rheumatology (ACR), and European 
League for Rheumatology (EULAR) criteria for improvement/response, and other 
single and combined measures (indices) in a trial in patients with early 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Ranking of measures by response (standardised response means and effect 
sizes) and between-group discrimination (unpaired t test and chi(2) values) at 
two time points in the COBRA study. This study included 155 patients with early 
RA randomly allocated to two treatment groups with distinct levels of expected 
response: combined treatment, high response; sulfasalazine treatment, moderate 
response.
RESULTS: At week 16, standardised response means of core set measures ranged 
between 0.8 and 3.5 for combined treatment and between 0.4 and 1.2 for 
sulfasalazine treatment (95% confidence interval +/-0.25). Performance of 
patient oriented measures (for example, pain, global assessment) was best when 
the questions were focused on the disease. The most responsive single measure 
was the patient's assessment of change in disease activity, at 3.5. Patient 
utility, a generic health status measure, was moderately (rating scale) to 
poorly (standard gamble) responsive. Response means of most indices (combined 
measures) exceeded 2.0, the simple count of core set measures improved by 20% 
was most responsive at 4.1. Discrimination performance yielded similar but not 
identical results: best discrimination between treatment groups was achieved by 
the EULAR response and ACR improvement criteria (at 20% and other percentage 
levels), the pooled index, and the disease activity score (DAS), but also by the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and grip strength.
CONCLUSIONS: Responsiveness and discrimination between levels of response are 
not identical concepts, and need separate study. The WHO/ILAR core set comprises 
responsive measures that discriminate well between different levels of response 
in early RA. However, the performance of patient oriented measures is highly 
dependent on their format. The excellent performance of indices such as the ACR 
improvement and EULAR response criteria confirms that they are the preferred 
primary end point in RA clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.59.12.966
PMCID: PMC1753042
PMID: 11087700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Phys Rev E Stat Phys Plasmas Fluids Relat Interdiscip Topics. 2000 Jul;62(1
Pt  B):1119-23. doi: 10.1103/physreve.62.1119.

Extinctions and taxonomy in a trophic model of coevolution.

Camacho J(1), Solé RV.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Física (Física Estadística), Edifici C, Universitat Autònoma 
de Barcelona, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.

We investigate the statistics of extinction sizes and the taxonomy in a trophic 
model of evolution recently proposed [Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 652 (1999)]. By 
further exploring the parameters of this model, we find that the distribution of 
extinction sizes N(s) shows typically a characteristic maximum before developing 
the power-law behavior N(s) approximately s(-alpha) with alpha approximately 2, 
in agreement with empirical observations. Furthermore, the derivation of the 
alpha=-2 exponent given by Drossel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 5011 (1998)] for this 
model is completed. The extinction sizes in each trophic level are also 
analyzed; one finds that at the fourth level and up (l> or =4) the extinction 
size statistics is a power law with exponent alpha(l) approximately 1.4, and 
exponential-like at the second level, also in agreement with some empirical data 
not previously explained by current models. On the other hand, in contrast to 
the observed power-law distribution of the number of species in genera, 
numerical simulations yield an exponential law. A modification of the model is 
presented that provides an approximate potential behavior for taxonomy, and some 
consequences for future modeling are outlined.

DOI: 10.1103/physreve.62.1119
PMID: 11088568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Neurology. 2000;55(9 Suppl 2):S25-8.

Rizatriptan versus usual care in long-term treatment of migraine.

Silberstein SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Jefferson Headache Center, Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Because of the recurrent nature of migraine, a major concern with pharmacologic 
therapy is whether it will remain effective, safe, and tolerable over the long 
term. The development of sumatriptan offered an improvement in migraine therapy, 
although concerns remain about chest symptoms associated with this class of 
drugs. In early clinical trials, rizatriptan was shown to have good 
bioavailability and favorable effects on quality of life. Long-term extension 
trials ran for up to 12 months and compared rizatriptan with "usual care" (i.e., 
medications used for acute therapy). These studies showed that the 10-mg 
rizatriptan dose was consistently superior to usual care with regard to pain 
relief and complete pain relief (pain-free). Side effects were generally mild 
and transient in all treatment groups. Nausea, dizziness, and somnolence were 
the most commonly reported adverse effects.

PMID: 11089516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. AIDS. 2000 Oct 20;14(15):2383-9. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200010200-00020.

Cost effectiveness of expanded antenatal HIV testing in London.

Postma MJ(1), Beck EJ, Hankins CA, Mandalia S, Jager JC, de Jong-van den Berg 
LT, Walters MD, Sherr L.

Author information:
(1)Groningen University Institute for Drug Exploration/Groningen Research 
Institute of Pharmacy, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Recently the Department of Health announced the introduction in 
England of voluntary universal HIV screening in early pregnancy to prevent 
vertical transmission. New data have shown the importance of HIV infection in 
infants born to mothers who were HIV-negative in early pregnancy and who 
acquired HIV later in pregnancy or during lactation. This requires consideration 
of repeat testing in late pregnancy and testing of partners of pregnant women 
(expanded antenatal HIV testing).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate cost effectiveness of expanded antenatal HIV testing in 
London (England) within the framework of universal voluntary HIV screening in 
early pregnancy.
DESIGN: Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: Cost estimates of service provision for HIV-positive children and 
adults by stage of HIV infection were combined with estimates of health benefits 
for infants and parents and with costs of counselling and testing (testing 
costs). In a pharmacoeconomic model cost effectiveness was estimated for 
expanded antenatal HIV testing in London for universal and selective strategies.
RESULTS: Testing costs in the plausible range of pounds sterling 4 to pounds 
sterling 40 translate into favourable incremental cost-effectiveness estimates 
for expanded antenatal HIV testing in London which is already at low numbers of 
vertical transmissions averted per 100000 pregnant women who test HIV-negative 
in early pregnancy. Favourable cost effectiveness for universal expanded testing 
would require testing costs in the lower range, whereas selective expanded 
testing may produce favourable cost effectiveness at testing costs close to 
pounds sterling 40.
CONCLUSION: Based on pharmaco-economic considerations, the authors believe that 
implementation of expanded HIV testing in London should be considered.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200010200-00020
PMID: 11089627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2000 Nov 9;408(6809):267-9. doi: 10.1038/35041709.

The future of ageing.

Hayflick L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of California at San 
Francisco, 95497, USA. len@gene.com

Advances in our knowledge of age-associated diseases have far outpaced advances 
in our understanding of the fundamental ageing processes that underlie the 
vulnerability to these pathologies. If we are to increase human life expectancy 
beyond the fifteen-year limit that would result if today's leading causes of 
death were resolved, more attention must be paid to basic research on ageing. 
Determination of longevity must be distinguished from ageing to take us from the 
common question of why we age to a more revealing question that is rarely posed: 
why do we live as long as we do? But if the ability to intervene in ageing ever 
becomes a reality, it will be rife with unintended and undesirable consequences.

DOI: 10.1038/35041709
PMID: 11089985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Med Care Res Rev. 2000;57 Suppl 1:218-35. doi: 10.1177/1077558700057001S10.

Race, ethnicity, and the health care system: public perceptions and experiences.

Lillie-Blanton M, Brodie M, Rowland D, Altman D, McIntosh M.

To assess the public's perceptions and attitudes about racial and ethnic 
differences in health care, the Kaiser Family Foundation surveyed a nationally 
representative sample of 3,884 whites, African Americans, and Latinos in 1999. 
The survey found that the majority of Americans are uninformed about health care 
disparities--many were unaware that blacks fare worse than whites on measures 
such as infant mortality and life expectancy, and that Latinos are less likely 
than whites to have health insurance. Views on whether the health system treats 
people equally were strikingly different by race. For example, most minority 
Americans perceive that they get lower quality care than whites, but most whites 
think otherwise. Nonetheless, more minority Americans were concerned about the 
cost of care than racial barriers. Efforts to eliminate disparities will need to 
improve public awareness of the problems as well as address racial and financial 
barriers to care.

DOI: 10.1177/1077558700057001S10
PMID: 11092164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Spinal Cord. 2000 Oct;38(10):604-10. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3101080.

Causes of death after spinal cord injury.

Soden RJ(1), Walsh J, Middleton JW, Craven ML, Rutkowski SB, Yeo JD.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Cord Injuries Unit, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

STUDY DESIGN: Mortality review was undertaken of patients who suffered traumatic 
spinal cord injury (SCI) between 1955 and 1994 inclusive.
OBJECTIVES: The study objective was to provide evidence of reasons for the 
observed reduction in long-term life expectancy for the SCI population.
SETTING: Patients were those who had most, if not all, of their inpatient and 
outpatient care at Royal North Shore Hospital, Spinal Injuries Unit, Sydney, New 
South Wales, Australia.
METHODS: Data on causes of death for 195 patients fitting the inclusion criteria 
were analysed by actuarial methods using ICD9CM classifications.
RESULTS: The incidence of death in the spinal cord injured, from septicaemia, 
pneumonia and influenza, diseases of the urinary uystem and suicide, are 
significantly higher than in the general population. The findings confirm 
variations in potentially treatable causes of death depending on neurological 
impairment, attained age and duration since injury. Unlike septicaemia and 
pneumonia, which have shown a significant reduction since 1980, the death rate 
for suicide alone has risen.
CONCLUSION: This analysis identified complications which affect mortality and 
morbidity in patients suffering from the effects of SCI.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3101080
PMID: 11093321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 2000 Aug;34(4):252-6. doi: 10.1080/003655900750041988.

Evaluation of prognostic factors in prostate cancer with partial least squares 
analysis.

Wikström P(1), Wikström P, Lissbrant IF, Bergh A, Damber JE, Stattin P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Andrology, Umeå University Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: This study was carried out to explore the capability of partial least 
squares (PLS) analysis, a multivariate projection method, in the evaluation of 
investigative prognostic biomarkers.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Using PLS analysis, survival and life expectancy were 
prognosticated in 53 patients with prostate cancer treated with transurethral 
resection. The age of the patient, stage and grade of the tumours, and 
immunoreactivity in the tumours for p53, Bcl-2, and TGF-beta1 and its receptors 
type I and type II (TGFbeta-RI and TGFalpha-RII), and markers for proliferation, 
vascular density, and macrophage density were included as prognostic factors in 
the analysis.
RESULTS: The prognostic impact of the factors, in decreasing order, was tumour 
grade, proliferation, stage, vascular density, TGFbeta-RI, metastasis, 
TGF-beta1, and TGFbeta-RII. Macrophage staining, p53, Bcl-2, and patient age did 
not contribute to the model. The model explained 62% of the total variance in 
survival, and the standard deviation of error of prediction was 29 months.
CONCLUSIONS: PLS analysis may become a useful tool for evaluation of putative 
prognostic factors.

DOI: 10.1080/003655900750041988
PMID: 11095083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Adv Nurs. 2000 Oct;32(4):777.

Infectious diseases are the biggest killer of the young globally.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11095212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

