
314. Curr Infect Dis Rep. 2000 Apr;2(2):177-184. doi: 10.1007/s11908-000-0031-y.

HIV and Hepatitis Virus Infection.

Poles MA(1), Dieterich DT.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, Division of Digestive Diseases, Center 
for the Health Sciences 44-138, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1684, USA.

As the life expectancy of patients with HIV infection increases, greater 
attention will need to be focused on concurrent illnesses, such as viral 
hepatitis, that may increase mid- to long-range morbidity and mortality. The 
incidence of viral hepatitis is increased in patients with HIV disease, 
reflecting the epidemiologic risks that these two conditions share. Coinfection 
with HIV seems to adversely affect the natural history of hepatitis C but may 
actually reduce the hepatic damage associated with hepatitis B. 
Immunosuppression due to HIV does not seem to significantly affect hepatitis A, 
E, or G. Clinicians have been reluctant to treat viral hepatitis in the 
HIV-infected population, but this therapeutic nihilism is unwarranted. Most 
studies have concluded that the treatment of hepatitis C in HIV-infected 
patients results in an initial efficacy and a long-term response similar to 
those seen in the HIV-seronegative population. Although the efficacy of 
interferon is reduced against hepatitis B, some nucleoside analogues are 
effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s11908-000-0031-y
PMID: 11095854


315. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2000 Apr;2(2):117-124. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-000-0004-3.

Aortic Stenosis.

Orsinelli DA(1), Daniels CJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, The Ohio State University, 617 Means Hall, 1654 Upham 
Drive, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. orsinelli-2@medctr.osu.edu

Choice of the best surgical option for aortic stenosis (AS) must be 
individualized and requires discussion among patient, cardiologist, and surgeon 
to weigh the risks and benefits of different options. Mechanical valves have 
been preferred for young patients, for those with a life expectancy of more than 
10 to 15 years, or for those who require anticoagulation. Bioprosthetic valves 
have been preferred for elderly patients, for patients with limited life 
expectancy, or for patients who are unable to be anticoagulated. Newer tissue 
valves (eg, the stentless porcine aortic bioprosthesis and homografts) as well 
as newer techniques (eg, the Ross procedure) have increased the number of 
available options and the complexity of the decision-making process.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-000-0004-3
PMID: 11096516


316. J Hepatol. 2000 Nov;33(5):738-41. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(00)80304-9.

Prospective study on the application of the Baveno II Consensus Conference 
criteria in patients with cirrhosis and gastrointestinal bleeding.

Calès P(1), Lacave N, Silvain C, Vinel JP, Besseghir K, Lebrec D.

Author information:
(1)The French Club for the Study of Portal Hypertension, Service 
d'Hepato-Gastroenterologie, CHU, Angers. Paul.Cales@med.univ-angers.fr

BACKGROUND/AIMS: This study aimed to evaluate the Baveno II criteria defining 
key events in variceal bleeding.
METHODS: These criteria were applied to 196 patients with cirrhosis admitted for 
upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to portal hypertension and enrolled in a 
trial. Blood pressure, heart rate, hematocrit and clinical signs of upper 
digestive tract hemorrhage were recorded for 5 days. The blind overall clinical 
judgment of hemodynamic stability was recorded separately by the Steering 
Committee.
RESULTS: The evaluation of several hemodynamic criteria was left to the judgment 
of the clinician. The first time point for the control of bleeding, fixed at 6 h 
after admission, was impractical since 13% of the patients had not yet received 
specific treatment. The independent judgment did not agree in 38% of 82 cases 
without control of bleeding. In 15% of cases this was due to tachycardia. 
Calculation of several judgment criteria was not defined in the Baveno II 
criteria: survival without bleeding at 5 days, transfusion rate, and length of 
hospital stay.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the Baveno II criteria have improved the definitions of 
key events, the criteria are hampered by limits such as false positive criteria 
of failure to control bleeding. We make several proposals for improvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(00)80304-9
PMID: 11097481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Am J Psychiatry. 2000 Dec;157(12):1988-93. doi:
10.1176/appi.ajp.157.12.1988.

Temporal lobe dysfunction in childhood autism: a PET study. Positron emission 
tomography.

Zilbovicius M(1), Boddaert N, Belin P, Poline JB, Remy P, Mangin JF, Thivard L, 
Barthélémy C, Samson Y.

Author information:
(1)Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot, Direction des Sciences du Vívant, 
Département de Recherche, Commisariat à l'Energie Atomique, Tours, France. 
zilbo@shfj.cea.fr

OBJECTIVE: The nature of the underlying brain dysfunction of childhood autism, a 
life-long severe developmental disorder, is not well understood. Although 
researchers using functional brain imaging have attempted to contribute to this 
debate, previous studies have failed to report consistent localized neocortical 
brain dysfunction. The authors reasoned that early methods may have been 
insensitive to such dysfunction, which may now be detectable with improved 
technology.
METHOD: To test this hypothesis, regional cerebral blood flow was measured with 
positron emission tomography (PET) in 21 children with primary autism and in 10 
nonautistic children with idiopathic mental retardation. Autistic and comparison 
groups were similar in average age and developmental quotients. The authors 
first searched for focal brain dysfunction in the autistic group by using a 
voxel-based whole brain analysis and then assessed the sensitivity of the method 
to detect the abnormality in individual children. An extension study was then 
performed in an additional group of 12 autistic children.
RESULTS: The first autistic group had a highly significant hypoperfusion in both 
temporal lobes centered in associative auditory and adjacent multimodal cortex, 
which was detected in 76% of autistic children. Virtually identical results were 
found in the second autistic group in the extension study.
CONCLUSIONS: PET and voxel-based image analysis revealed a localized dysfunction 
of the temporal lobes in school-aged children with idiopathic autism. Further 
studies will clarify the relationships between these temporal abnormalities and 
the perceptive, cognitive, and emotional developmental abnormalities 
characteristic of this disorder.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.157.12.1988
PMID: 11097965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Med Lav. 2000 Jul-Aug;91(4):296-301.

[Biology and needs of the aged].

[Article in Italian]

Vergani C(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Università di Milano.

The elderly age group is growing rapidly as a proportion of the total population 
of Italy. By the year 2020 the population aged 65 and over is expected to 
increase from 17% to 23%. The biological process of aging leads to a loss of 
functional reserves, and so elderly people are frail and affected by multiple 
diseases. However, health in the elderly is synonymous with self-sufficiency, 
which may be preserved even in the presence of a disabling disease. According to 
the new WHO International Classification of Functioning and Disability (ICIDH-2) 
the important elements in defining health status include personal activity and 
social participation, as well as body functions. As people age in different 
ways, the response to the needs of the elderly must be flexible and 
multidimensional. One of the priority objectives of modern medicine is to push 
disability to the end of life as much as possible.

PMID: 11098593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Crit Care Med. 2000 Nov;28(11 Suppl):N214-8. doi: 
10.1097/00003246-200011001-00012.

Suspended animation for delayed resuscitation from prolonged cardiac arrest that 
is unresuscitable by standard cardiopulmonary-cerebral resuscitation.

Safar P(1), Tisherman SA, Behringer W, Capone A, Prueckner S, Radovsky A, 
Stezoski WS, Woods RJ.

Author information:
(1)Safar Center for Resuscitation Research, Department of Anesthesiology and 
Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Standard cardiopulmonary-cerebral resuscitation fails to achieve restoration of 
spontaneous circulation in approximately 50% of normovolemic sudden cardiac 
arrests outside hospitals and in essentially all victims of penetrating truncal 
trauma who exsanguinate rapidly to cardiac arrest. Among 
cardiopulmonary-cerebral resuscitation innovations since the 1960s, automatic 
external defibrillation, mild hypothermia, emergency (portable) cardiopulmonary 
bypass, and suspended animation have potentials for clinical breakthrough 
effects. Suspended animation has been suggested for presently unresuscitable 
conditions and consists of the rapid induction of preservation (using 
hypothermia with or without drugs) of viability of the brain, heart, and 
organism (within 5 mins of normothermic cardiac arrest no-flow), which increases 
the time available for transport and resuscitative surgery, followed by delayed 
resuscitation. Since 1988, we have developed and used novel dog models of 
exsanguination cardiac arrest to explore suspended animation potentials with 
hypothermic and pharmacologic strategies using aortic cold flush and emergency 
portable cardiopulmonary bypass. Outcome evaluation was at 72 or 96 hrs after 
cardiac arrest. Cardiopulmonary bypass cannot be initiated rapidly. A single 
aortic flush of cold saline (4 degrees C) at the start of cardiac arrest rapidly 
induced (depending on flush volume) mild-to-deep cerebral hypothermia (35 
degrees to 10 degrees C), without cardiopulmonary bypass, and preserved 
viability during a cardiac arrest no-flow period of up to 120 mins. In contrast, 
except for one antioxidant (Tempol), explorations of 14 different drugs added to 
the aortic flush at room temperature (24 degrees C) have thus far had 
disappointing outcome results. Profound hypothermia (10 degrees C) during 60-min 
cardiac arrest induced and reversed with cardiopulmonary bypass achieved 
survival without functional or histologic brain damage. Further plans for the 
systematic development of suspended animation include the following: a) aortic 
flush, combining hypothermia with mechanism-specific drugs and novel fluids; b) 
extension of suspended animation by ultraprofound hypothermic preservation (0 
degrees to 5 degrees C) with cardiopulmonary bypass; c) development of the most 
effective suspended animation protocol for clinical trials in trauma patients 
with cardiac arrest; and d) modification of suspended animation protocols for 
possible use in normovolemic ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest, in which 
attempts to achieve restoration of spontaneous circulation by standard external 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation-advanced life support have failed.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-200011001-00012
PMID: 11098950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Exp Dermatol. 2000 Dec;9(6):439-51. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-0625.2000.009006439.x.

What is the most promising strategy for the treatment of metastasizing melanoma?

Cascinelli N(1), Heerlyn M, Schneeberger A, Kuwert C, Slominski A, Armstrong C, 
Belli F, Lukiewcz S, Maurer D, Ansel J, Stingl G, Saida T.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, Milano, Italy. cascinelli@istitutotumori.mi.it

The treatment of patients with metastasizing melanoma, still one of the most 
deadly diseases in modern medicine, ranks among the greatest challenges that a 
clinician has to face. Metastatic melanoma also is one of the most profound 
sources of clinical frustration, since it provides far more ultimately defeating 
experiences than clinical victories. At the same time, the fascinating biology 
of melanoma has invited the study of this neuroectodermal tumor as a model 
system for dissecting many of the key problems of modern oncology, ranging from 
molecular oncogenesis via the controls of tumor proliferation, apoptosis, 
invasion, metastasis, and angiogenesis to tumor immunosurveillance and tumor 
drug resistance. Together with the dire need to develop more effective treatment 
modalities for improving both life expectancy and quality of life of affected 
patients, this has made metastatic melanoma a favorite model for the exploration 
of innovative strategies for tumor management. Encouragingly, many of these have 
already generated very promising results in animal models. However, this 
impressive level of research progress in conquering melanoma in the animal room 
contrasts rather pitifully with the actual progress made on the ward. This 
CONTROVERSIES feature, therefore, critically and soberly reviews the state of 
the art of treating metastatic melanoma today (distinguishing between nodal and 
distant metastases), and sharply defines unresolved or comparatively neglected 
key problems. In addition, this feature highlights several novel, provocative, 
hitherto underappreciated, yet potentially promising treatment approaches that 
deserve systematic exploration. Hopefully, this will offer further inspiration 
for the design and pursuit of innovative anti-melanoma strategies 
off-the-beaten-track.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0625.2000.009006439.x
PMID: 11099112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Pediatrics. 2000 Dec;106(6):1307-17. doi: 10.1542/peds.106.6.1307.

Annual summary of vital statistics: trends in the health of Americans during the 
20th century.

Guyer B(1), Freedman MA, Strobino DM, Sondik EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Family Health Sciences, Johns Hopkins School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The overall improvement in the health of Americans over the 20th century is best 
exemplified by dramatic changes in 2 trends: 1) the age-adjusted death rate 
declined by about 74%, while 2) life expectancy increased 56%. Leading causes of 
death shifted from infectious to chronic diseases. In 1900, infectious 
respiratory diseases accounted for nearly a quarter of all deaths. In 1998, the 
10 leading causes of death in the United States were, respectively, heart 
disease and cancer followed by stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
accidents (unintentional injuries), pneumonia and influenza, diabetes, suicide, 
kidney diseases, and chronic liver disease and cirrhosis. Together these leading 
causes accounted for 84% of all deaths. The size and composition of the American 
population is fundamentally affected by the fertility rate and the number of 
births. From the beginning of the century there was a steady decline in the 
fertility rate to a low point in 1936. The postwar baby boom peaked in 1957, 
when 123 of every 1000 women aged 15 to 44 years gave birth. Thereafter, 
fertility rates began a steady decline. Trends in the number of births parallel 
the trends in the fertility rate. Beginning in 1936 and continuing to 1956, 
there was precipitous decline in maternal mortality from 582 deaths per 100 000 
live births in 1935 to 40 in 1956. Since 1950 the maternal mortality ratio 
dropped by 90% to 7.1 in 1998. The infant mortality rate has shown an 
exponential decline during the 20th century. In 1915, approximately 100 white 
infants per 1000 live births died in the first year of life; the rate for black 
infants was almost twice as high. In 1998, the infant mortality rate was 7.2 
overall, 6.0 for white infants, and 14.3 for black infants. For children older 
than 1 year of age, the overall decline in mortality during the 20th century has 
been spectacular. In 1900, >3 in 100 children died between their first and 20th 
birthday; today, <2 in 1000 die. At the beginning of the 20th century, the 
leading causes of child mortality were infectious diseases, including diarrheal 
diseases, diphtheria, measles, pneumonia and influenza, scarlet fever, 
tuberculosis, typhoid and paratyphoid fevers, and whooping cough. Between 1900 
and 1998, the percentage of child deaths attributable to infectious diseases 
declined from 61.6% to 2%. Accidents accounted for 6.3% of child deaths in 1900, 
but 43.9% in 1998. Between 1900 and 1998, the death rate from accidents, now 
usually called unintentional injuries, declined two-thirds, from 47. 5 to 15.9 
deaths per 100 000. The child dependency ratio far exceeded the elderly 
dependency ratio during most of the 20th century, particularly during the first 
70 years. The elderly ratio has gained incrementally since then and the large 
increase expected beginning in 2010 indicates that the difference in the 2 
ratios will become considerably less by 2030. The challenge for the 21st century 
is how to balance the needs of children with the growing demands for a large 
aging population of elderly persons.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.106.6.1307
PMID: 11099582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Transfusion. 2000 Nov;40(11):1308-12. doi:
10.1046/j.1537-2995.2000.40111308.x.

Growth of bacteria in inoculated platelets: implications for bacteria detection 
and the extension of platelet storage.

Brecher ME(1), Holland PV, Pineda AA, Tegtmeier GE, Yomtovian R.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
27514, USA. brecher@med.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Recent reports from Europe have advocated the use of bacterial 
culturing of platelets on Day 2 or 3 of storage to extend the shelf life of 
platelets to 7 days, thereby reducing the outdating of platelets and preserving 
a limited medical resource. To assess the optimal timing, the necessary 
sensitivity, and the possible efficacy of bacterial detection, the bacterial 
growth characteristics were reviewed in 165 platelet units, each inoculated on 
the day of collection with one of the following organisms: Bacillus cereus, 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Serratia marcescens, 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Staphylococcus epidermidis from four previously 
published studies.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Quantitative culture data from inoculated platelet 
concentrates from five sites and four studies were combined into one database 
and analyzed for bacterial concentration thresholds (> or =10(1), > or =10(2), > 
or =10(3), > or =10(4), > or =10(5) CFU/mL) by day of storage.
RESULTS: All examples of B. cereus, P. aeruginosa, K. pneumoniae, S. marcescens, 
and S. aureus had concentrations > or =10(2) CFU per mL by Day 3 after 
inoculation. By Day 4, all units with these organisms contained > or =10(5) CFU 
per mL. Units contaminated with S. epidermidis showed slower and more varied 
growth. By Day 3 after inoculation, 81.3 percent had 10(2) CFU per mL. By Day 4 
after inoculation, 46 (95.8%) of 48 units had concentrations > or =10(2) CFU per 
mL.
CONCLUSION: These experiments suggest that an assay capable of detecting 10(2) 
CFU per mL on Day 3 of storage would detect the vast majority of bacterially 
contaminated platelet units, prevent many cases of platelet-associated bacterial 
sepsis, and provide a scientific basis for the extension of the current platelet 
storage time. It would be expected that a rare, slow-growing organism could 
escape such a detection scheme.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2000.40111308.x
PMID: 11099657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Am J Med. 2000 Dec 1;109(8):614-20. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00591-x.

Outcomes and cost-effectiveness of ventilator support and aggressive care for 
patients with acute respiratory failure due to pneumonia or acute respiratory 
distress syndrome.

Hamel MB(1), Phillips RS, Davis RB, Teno J, Connors AF, Desbiens N, Lynn J, 
Dawson NV, Fulkerson W, Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2000 Dec 1;109(8):686-7.

PURPOSE: Many patients with acute respiratory failure die despite prolonged and 
costly treatment. Our objective was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
providing rather than withholding mechanical ventilation and intensive care for 
patients with acute respiratory failure due to pneumonia or acute respiratory 
distress syndrome.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We studied 1,005 patients enrolled in a five-center study 
of seriously ill patients (the Study to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for 
Outcomes and Risks of Treatments [SUPPORT]) with acute respiratory failure 
(pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and an Acute Physiology Score 
> or =10) who required ventilator support. We estimated life expectancy based on 
long-term follow-up of SUPPORT patients. Utilities were estimated using 
time-tradeoff questions. Costs (in 1998 dollars) were based on hospital fiscal 
data and Medicare data.
RESULTS: Of the 963 patients who received ventilator support, 48% survived for 
at least 6 months. At 6 months, survivors reported a median of 1 dependence in 
activities of daily living, and 72% rated their quality of life as good, very 
good, or excellent. Among the 42 patients in whom ventilator support was 
withheld, the median survival was 3 days. Among patients whose estimated 
probability of surviving at least 2 months from the time of ventilator support 
("prognostic estimate") was 70% or more, the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved by providing rather than withholding 
ventilator support and aggressive care was $29,000. For medium-risk patients 
(prognostic estimate 51% to 70%), the incremental cost-effectiveness was $44,000 
per QALY, and for high-risk patients (prognostic estimate < or =50%), it was 
$110,000 per QALY. When assumptions were varied from 50% to 200% of baseline 
estimates, the results ranged from $19,000 to $48,000 for low-risk patients, 
from $29,000 to $76, 000 for medium-risk patients, and from $67,000 to $200,000 
for high-risk patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Ventilator support and intensive care for acute respiratory failure 
due to pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome are relatively 
cost-effective for patients with >50% probability of surviving 2 months. 
However, for patients with an expected 2-month survival < or =50%, the cost per 
QALY is more than threefold greater at >$100,000.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00591-x
PMID: 11099680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Am J Med. 2000 Dec 1;109(8):686-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00620-3.

Another perspective on SUPPORT.

Luce JM.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2000 Dec 1;109(8):614-20.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00620-3
PMID: 11099691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Transfus Sci. 2000 Dec;23(3):193-200. doi: 10.1016/s0955-3886(00)00088-6.

Clinical aspects of hemochromatosis.

Brissot P(1), Guyader D, Loréal O, Lainé F, Guillygomarc'h A, Moirand R, 
Deugnier Y.

Author information:
(1)Clinique des Maladies du Foie and Liver Research Unit INSERM U-522, 
University Hospital Pontchaillou, Rue H. Le Guilloux, 35033 Rennes, France. 
pierre.brissot@univ-rennes1.fr

Hemochromatosis is one of the most frequent genetic diseases among the white 
populations, affecting one in three hundred persons. Its diagnosis has been 
radically transformed by the discovery of the HFE gene. In a given individual, 
the diagnosis can, from now on, be ascertained on the sole association of a 
plasma transferrin saturation (TS) over 45% and homozygosity for the C282Y 
mutation. Liver biopsy is only required to search for cirrhosis whenever there 
is hepatomegaly and/or serum ferritin >1000 ng/ml and/or elevated serum AST. 
Family screening is mandatory, primarily centered on the siblings. The treatment 
remains based on venesection therapy which improves many features of the disease 
(one of the most refractory, however, being the joint signs) and permits normal 
life expectancy provided the diagnosis is established prior to the development 
of cirrhosis or of insulin-dependent diabetes. In view of the prevalence, the 
non-invasive diagnosis, the spontaneous severity and the efficacy of a very 
simple therapy, hemochromatosis should benefit from population screening. This 
screening could be based, first, on the assessment of transferrin saturation, 
followed - when elevated - by the search for the C282Y mutation. The discovery 
of the HFE gene has also paved the road for the individualization of other types 
of iron overload syndromes which are not HFE-related.

DOI: 10.1016/s0955-3886(00)00088-6
PMID: 11099895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2000 Nov;26(9):947-53. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702657.

Outcomes of high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant in 
isolated locally recurrent breast cancer: a multicenter evaluation.

Vij R(1), DiPersio J, Brown R, Trinkaus K, Abboud C, Meehan KR, Frenette G, 
Freytes C, Goodnough LT, Khoury H, Ponnuri J, Adkins D.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, Division of Bone Marrow 
Transplantation and Stem Cell Biology, St Louis, MO 63110-1093, USA.

To determine the outcomes of women with isolated loco-regional recurrence (LRR) 
of breast cancer treated with high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) and autologous stem 
cell transplantation (ASCT) following conventional therapy, we conducted a 
retrospective review of 58 patients from five institutions treated between 1990 
and 1998. Forty-five patients (78%) had > or = 2 poor prognostic factors (PPF) 
(defined as disease-free interval preceding LRR < or = 2 years, hormone receptor 
negative/refractory disease, and incomplete resection). At median follow-up of 
14.2 (0.5-72) months, 36 patients (62%) developed progressive disease. Disease 
progression usually occurred at local (27 patients) vs distant (nine patients) 
sites. Median time to disease progression following ASCT was 6.1 (1.3-31.4) 
months. At last follow-up, 23 patients (40%) had expired (all due to disease 
progression), and 13 (22%) were alive with, and 22 (38%) without progressive 
disease. By Kaplan-Meier analysis, the estimated median PFS and OS was 20.3 and 
29.2 months, respectively. In a multivariate model, complete remission at time 
of HDCT and estrogen-receptor positive disease were predictive of significantly 
longer PFS and OS. The survival of this cohort was similar to previous reports 
of those treated with conventional therapy alone, and to those with distant 
metastases treated with HDCT. Frequent progression locally, suggests that 
strategies to improve local disease control are needed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702657
PMID: 11100273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2000 Nov;26(9):979-83. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702640.

Effect of complete response on outcome following autologous stem cell 
transplantation for myeloma.

Rajkumar SV(1), Fonseca R, Dispenzieri A, Lacy MQ, Witzig TE, Lust JA, Larson D, 
Therneau TM, Kyle RA, Litzow MR, Greipp PR, Gertz MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

We studied the effect of complete response (CR) among 126 consecutive patients 
who underwent stem cell transplantation (SCT) for myeloma. The CR rate with SCT 
was 33%. Median overall survival (OS) from diagnosis of myeloma was 56 months. 
OS following SCT was 22 months. Progression-free survival (PFS) was 12 months. 
OS was not different between patients who achieved CR and those who did not, 
median survival 25 vs 24 months, P = 0.5. Corresponding median times for PFS 
were 15 and 11 months, P = 0.2. The plasma cell labeling index (PCLI) was high 
(> or = 1%) in 36% (high risk group) and was associated with poor OS and PFS (P 
< 0.001). Achieving CR did not influence OS or PFS in either the high or the low 
risk group. In contrast, OS and PFS were significantly influenced by high PCLI 
both in patients who achieved CR and those who did not. OS was poor (< 30 
months) in high risk patients regardless of CR status and in low risk patients 
who did not achieve CR, compared to low risk patients achieving CR (57 months), 
making them candidates for novel post-transplant treatment options. Outcome 
following SCT is dependent more on biological variables such as the PCLI than on 
CR status.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702640
PMID: 11100277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. AIDS. 2000 Nov 10;14(16):2543-52. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200011100-00017.

The cost-effectiveness of elective Cesarean delivery for HIV-infected women with 
detectable HIV RNA during pregnancy.

Mrus JM(1), Goldie SJ, Weinstein MC, Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Institute for Health Policy and Health 
Services Research, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Ohio 45267-0535, 
USA.

Comment in
    AIDS. 2000 Nov 10;14(16):2609-10.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the net health consequences, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of alternative delivery strategies for HIV-infected pregnant 
women with detectable HIV RNA in the USA.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a probabilistic decision model.
METHODS: The model compared two strategies: elective Cesarean section and 
vaginal delivery. Data for HIV transmission rate, maternal death rate, 
health-related quality of life and costs were obtained from the literature, 
national databases, and a tertiary hospital's cost accounting system. Model 
outcomes included total lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
maternal death rate, HIV transmission rate, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
RESULTS: Elective Cesarean section resulted in a vertical HIV transmission rate 
of 34.9 per 1000 births compared with 62.3 per 1000 births for vaginal delivery. 
Elective Cesarean section was more effective (38.7 quality adjusted life years 
per mother and child pair) and less costly ($10600 per delivery) than trial of 
labor (38.2 combined quality adjusted life years at a cost of $14500 per 
delivery). However, elective Cesarean section increased maternal mortality by 
2.4 deaths per 100000 deliveries. The results were consistent over a wide range 
of the variables, but were sensitive to the risk of HIV transmission with 
vaginal delivery and the relative risk of HIV transmission with elective 
Cesarean section.
CONCLUSIONS: In pregnant HIV-infected women with detectable HIV RNA, elective 
Cesarean section would reduce total costs and increase overall quality-adjusted 
life expectancy for the mother-child pair, albeit at a slight loss of quality 
adjusted life expectancy to the mother.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200011100-00017
PMID: 11101066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Dec;29(6):1076-84. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.6.1076.

Human T-cell lymphotropic virus testing of blood donors in Norway: a cost-effect 
model.

Stigum H(1), Magnus P, Samdal HH, Nord E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, National Institute of Public 
Health, Oslo, Norway. Hein.Stigum@Folkehelsa.no

BACKGROUND: Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I and II (HTLV-I and II) are 
human retroviruses that can be transmitted by transfusion of whole blood. An 
HTLV-I infection is associated with adult T-cell leukaemia (ATL) and with 
tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP). Antibody tests from 5.5 million European 
blood donors have shown that the HTLV prevalence is low, ranging from 0 to 
0.02%. This paper examines costs and effects associated with the intervention of 
testing all new blood donors for HTLV.
METHODS: A mathematical model was used to calculate the number of cases 
prevented by the intervention. For a given prevalence of HTLV in the blood donor 
population, the model calculates the number of recipients infected by 
transfusion, and the number of partners and offspring that will in turn be 
infected. The model then calculates the number of subjects with disease due to 
HTLV-I infection and the number of deaths from disease. From these numbers the 
measures of cost and effect are calculated.
RESULTS: Testing all new blood donors for HTLV is calculated to cost US$ 9.2 
million per life saved, or US$ 420,000 per quality adjusted life year gained by 
the intervention, when the HTLV prevalence among donors is 1 per 100,000. When 
the prevalence among donors is 10 per 100,000 the intervention will cost US$ 0.9 
million per life saved, or US$ 41,000 per quality adjusted life year gained. The 
same analysis shows that testing blood donors for human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) saves money when the HIV prevalence among donors is above 0.7 per 100,000.
CONCLUSION: For Norway, studies suggest a willingness to pay to save a 
statistical life of approximately US$ 1.2 million. The costs fall under this 
value when the number of infected persons is > or = 8 per 100,000 donors. The 
results are uncertain because of the uncertainty in HTLV infection and disease 
parameters.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.6.1076
PMID: 11101551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Brain Dev. 2000 Oct;22(7):454-7. doi: 10.1016/s0387-7604(00)00181-9.

A case of Walker-Warburg syndrome.

Asano Y(1), Minagawa K, Okuda A, Matsui T, Ando K, Kondo-Iida E, Kobayashi O, 
Toda T, Nonaka I, Tanizawa T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hyogo College of Medicine, 1-1 Mukogawa-cho, 
Nishinomiya, 663-8501, Hyogo, Japan. yumi-ped@hyo-med.ac.jp

Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized 
by type II lissencephaly, cerebellar and retinal anomalies, and congenital 
muscular dystrophy. We report a female diagnosed with WWS based on clinical 
criteria. This patient was found to have fetal hydrocephalus on ultrasonography 
at 29 weeks of gestation, and exhibited severe hypotonia, ocular malformations, 
and hydrocephalus at birth. MRI revealed type II lissencephaly, hydrocephalus, 
and other severe brain malformations. Genetic analysis was performed to 
distinguish WWS from severe Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), 
which has numerous findings in common. This revealed no expression of the 
founder haplotype or single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) 
abnormalities. Since the life expectancy of patients with FCMD is longer, 
differential diagnosis should be performed precisely.

DOI: 10.1016/s0387-7604(00)00181-9
PMID: 11102733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Ann Intern Med. 2000 Dec 5;133(11):864-76. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-133-11-200012050-00010.

Cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation for supraventricular tachycardia.

Cheng CH(1), Sanders GD, Hlatky MA, Heidenreich P, McDonald KM, Lee BK, Larson 
MS, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Stanford Medical Informatics, 251 Campus Drive, MSOB X-215, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305-5479, USA.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 2001 Nov 20;135(10):933.

BACKGROUND: Radiofrequency ablation is an established but expensive treatment 
option for many forms of supraventricular tachycardia. Most cases of 
supraventricular tachycardia are not life-threatening; the goal of therapy is 
therefore to improve the patient's quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation with 
that of medical management of supraventricular tachycardia.
DESIGN: Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: Costs were estimated from a major academic hospital and the 
literature, and treatment efficacy was estimated from reports from clinical 
studies at major medical centers. Probabilities of clinical outcomes were 
estimated from the literature. To account for the effect of radiofrequency 
ablation on quality of life, assessments by patients who had undergone the 
procedure were used.
TARGET POPULATION: Cohort of symptomatic patients who experienced 4.6 
unscheduled visits per year to an emergency department or a physician's office 
while receiving long-term drug therapy for supraventricular tachycardia.
TIME HORIZON: Patient lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Initial radiofrequency ablation, long-term antiarrhythmic drug 
therapy, and treatment of acute episodes of arrhythmia with antiarrhythmic 
drugs.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years, life-years, and marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Among patients who have monthly episodes of 
supraventricular tachycardia, radiofrequency ablation was the most effective and 
least expensive therapy and therefore dominated the drug therapy options. 
Radiofrequency ablation improved quality-adjusted life expectancy by 3.10 
quality-adjusted life-years and reduced lifetime medical expenditures by $27 900 
compared with long-term drug therapy. Long-term drug therapy was more effective 
and had lower costs than episodic drug therapy.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The findings were highly robust over 
substantial variations in assumptions about the efficacy and complication rate 
of radiofrequency ablation, including analyses in which the complication rate 
was tripled and efficacy was decreased substantially.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiofrequency ablation substantially improves quality of life and 
reduces costs when it is used to treat highly symptomatic patients. Although the 
benefit of radiofrequency ablation has not been studied in less symptomatic 
patients, a small improvement in quality of life is sufficient to give 
preference to radiofrequency ablation over drug therapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-133-11-200012050-00010
PMID: 11103056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Womens Health Gend Based Med. 2000 Nov;9(9):1007-13. doi: 
10.1089/15246090050200042.

A profile of early versus late onset of obesity in postmenopausal women.

McCrone S(1), Dennis K, Tomoyasu N, Carroll J.

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University School of Nursing, Morgantown, West Virginia 
26506-9630, USA.

Obesity is a serious health problem among women across the life span. Although 
people can become obese at any age, there is a large proportion of older women 
who have been obese since childhood. The purpose of this study was to determine 
whether postmenopausal women with an early versus late onset of obesity 
manifested differences in body habitus, eating behaviors, and mood. One hundred 
thirty-five postmenopausal women with obesity responded to self-report 
questionnaires on weight history, weight loss and maintenance expectancy, eating 
behaviors, and mood. Women with an early onset of obesity had a significantly 
higher body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, and highest attained adult 
body weight than women with a late onset of obesity. They had attempted a 
significantly larger number of diets and had lost more weight on any single 
diet. The groups also differed significantly on binge eating and overeating in 
response to negative affect. There was a tendency for women with an early onset 
to have more depressive and anxious symptoms. Postmenopausal women with an early 
onset of obesity differed physiologically and psychologically from those with a 
late onset. Tailoring dietary and behavioral interventions to profiles of 
postmenopausal women based on onset of obesity may improve the overall efficacy 
of weight loss programs.

DOI: 10.1089/15246090050200042
PMID: 11103101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Health Soc Work. 2000 Nov;25(4):270-5. doi: 10.1093/hsw/25.4.270.

Inequality and health: implications for social work.

Gorin SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Plymouth State College, NH 03624, USA. sgorin@gowebway.com

DOI: 10.1093/hsw/25.4.270
PMID: 11103700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Health Econ. 2000 Oct;9(7):611-21. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1050(200010)9:7<611::aid-hec540>3.0.co;2-r.

The social value of health programmes: is age a relevant factor?

Rodríguez E(1), Pinto JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, University of Vigo, Galicia, Spain. 
emiguez@uvigo.es

In cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) it is usually assumed that a 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is of equal value to everybody, irrespective 
of the patient's age. However, it is possible that society assigns different 
social values to a QALY, according to who gets it. In this paper, we discuss the 
possibility of weighting health benefits for age in CEA. We also examine the 
possibility that age-related preferences depend on the size of the health gain. 
An experiment was performed to test these hypotheses. The assessment of results 
suggests that the patient's age is a relevant factor when assessing health 
gains.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1050(200010)9:7<611::aid-hec540>3.0.co;2-r
PMID: 11103927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. MedGenMed. 1999 Sep 23:E4.

How Fast Can the Racial Gap in Life Expectancy Between Whites and Blacks Be 
Eliminated?

Wang H(1), Remington PL, Kindig DA.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin Medical School.

BACKGROUND: The racial gap in life expectancy between whites and blacks 
fluctuated from 7.6 to 5.7 years from 1970-1996, but the causes of this gap and 
the years required to eliminate it remain unclear. This paper analyzes the 
leading causes of death and how they contribute to the racial gap in life 
expectancy, and estimates the number of years required to eliminate this gap. 
METHODS: Standard abridged life table methods and life table partitioning 
techniques were used to estimate the total and the cause-specific racial gap in 
life expectancy. Cause-specific mortality rates by age, sex, and race in the 
United States from 1970-1996 were obtained from the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. The predictions of years needed to eliminate the racial gap in 
life expectancy are based on international and domestic trends in life 
expectancy improvement. RESULTS: The racial gap in life expectancy declined 
before 1982, increased from 1982 to 1989, and slowly declined after 1989. In 
1996, about 54% and 62% of the racial gap was attributable to cancer, heart 
disease, homicide, and HIV for females and males, respectively. If blacks could 
experience substantial improvement in life expectancy, the current racial gap in 
life expectancy could be eliminated in about 40 years. CONCLUSIONS: The goal of 
eliminating the racial gap in life expectancy is a critical national priority. 
Differences in life expectancy are the result of multiple health and 
socioeconomic determinants, which will require multiple intervention strategies. 
The time it will take to reduce the overall gap will depend on the speed of 
reduction of the leading cause-specific mortality differences, which will 
require intensified efforts in both prevention and treatment.

PMID: 11104406


336. Radiother Oncol. 2000 Dec;57(3):259-62. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(00)00285-1.

The place of radical prostatectomy in the treatment of early localized prostate 
cancer.

Debruyne FM(1), Beerlage HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Nijmegen, 6500, The, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.

Today a number of treatment options exist for men diagnosed with early localized 
prostate carcinoma, of which the most important are radical prostatectomy, 
external beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy. New advances in brachytherapy 
using the implantation of iodine-125 and palladium-103 seeds have significantly 
altered its place in the treatment of localized disease and provided an 
alternative to external beam radiotherapy and potentially radical prostatectomy. 
Drawing on recently published data and our own experiences of retropubic radical 
prostatectomy in 100 consecutive men with localized disease, we review the place 
of radical prostatectomy in the treatment of early prostate cancer today. For 
many urologists radical prostatectomy remains the treatment of choice for men 
aged 70 years or less, with localized disease, a life expectancy of over 10 
years and no co-morbidity. However, this has to be balanced against recent 
advances in brachytherapy, which now provides a minimally invasive alternative 
therapy for some patients with organ-confined disease and for those in whom 
surgery is contraindicated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(00)00285-1
PMID: 11104882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Prosthet Dent. 2000 Nov;84(5):514-21. doi: 10.1067/mpr.2000.110137.

Prospective clinical 5-year study of ceramic-veneered titanium restorations with 
the Procera system.

Lövgren R(1), Andersson B, Carlsson GE, Odman P.

Author information:
(1)The Public Dental Service Clinic, Kungshamn, Sweden. rolf.lovgren@vgregion.se

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: The biocompatibility of titanium has been well documented, 
but clinical outcomes of ceramic-veneered titanium restorations were not 
conclusive.
PURPOSE: The study presents the results of a 5-year clinical study of individual 
crowns and fixed partial dentures (FPDs) veneered with a low-fusing ceramic of 
the Procera system.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All patients at one clinic who required crowns or FPDs 
during a 2-year period were invited to participate. A total of 260 patients 
received 333 ceramic-veneered Procera restorations (242 single crowns and 91 
FPDs). Clinical registrations were performed annually, and the restorations were 
evaluated according to the California Dental Association rating system. At the 
5-year follow-up, 198 (76%) patients were examined. Most of the loss of patients 
could be explained.
RESULTS: Practically all Procera restorations were judged as satisfactory both 
at baseline and follow-up examinations. One artificial crown and 1 FPD were 
remade because of extensive fractures of ceramic veneers. Two FPDs had fractures 
of a soldered joint, but only 1 FPD was replaced. Some minor complications 
occurred, such as small porcelain fractures that could be polished (6% of single 
crowns, 13% of FPDs) and or loosened restorations that were recemented. Other 
recorded complications were not related to the Procera system but to dental 
caries, loosened posts and cores, and root fractures.
CONCLUSION: Clinical outcomes over a 5-year period for ceramic-veneered titanium 
restorations with the Procera system were favorable.

DOI: 10.1067/mpr.2000.110137
PMID: 11105007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Rev Saude Publica. 2000 Oct;34(5):514-21. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102000000500012.

[Differential mortality between metropolitan areas of Brazil, 1985-1995].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Abreu DM(1), Rodrigues RN.

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Estudos em Saúde Coletiva, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, 
Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil. dmxa@medicina.ufmg.br

OBJECTIVE: To analyze differential changes of rates and stratification of 
mortality by gender and causes of death in the metropolitan area of Belo 
Horizonte (RMBH) and Salvador (RMS) between 1985 and 1995.
METHODS: The Ministry of Health's Mortality Information System (SIM) provides 
data on death causes by age and sex that was used for this study. The groups of 
death causes were classified according to two major groups (preventable and 
non-preventable) and the decomposition method presented by Pollard was applied 
to analyze the contribution of each group of death causes in the changes in life 
expectation.
RESULTS: There have been changes in the pace of the current mortality rate 
decline in RMBH and RMS, which have resulted in a reduction in the differences 
between the mortality rates in both areas. In both areas there was a substantial 
reduction in the mortality rates in the group of preventable causes, especially 
among women.
CONCLUSIONS: There is still a structure of death causes, which seems to indicate 
that the improvement in mortality among the poor has been lower than it was 
expected.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102000000500012
PMID: 11105116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. JAMA. 2000 Dec 6;284(21):2748-54. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.21.2748.

Health and economic benefits of increased beta-blocker use following myocardial 
infarction.

Phillips KA(1), Shlipak MG, Coxson P, Heidenreich PA, Hunink MG, Goldman PA, 
Williams LW, Weinstein MC, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of 
California, San Francisco, 3333 California St, Room 420, Box 0613, San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA. kathryn@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2001 Feb 28;285(8):1013.

CONTEXT: beta-blockers are underused in patients who have myocardial infarction 
(MI), despite the proven efficacy of these agents. New evidence indicates that 
beta-blockers can have benefit in patients with conditions that have been 
considered relative contraindications. Understanding the consequences of 
underuse of beta-blockers is important because of the implications for current 
policy debates over quality-of-care measures and Medicare prescription drug 
coverage.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the potential health and economic impact of increased use 
of beta-blockers in patients who have had MI.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We used the Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) Policy Model, a 
computer-simulation Markov model of CHD in the US population, to estimate the 
epidemiological impact and cost-effectiveness of increased beta-blocker use from 
current to target levels among survivors of MI aged 35 to 84 years. Simulations 
included 1 cohort of MI survivors in 2000 followed up for 20 years and 20 
successive annual cohorts of all first-MI survivors in 2000-2020. Mortality and 
morbidity from CHD were derived from published meta-analyses and recent studies. 
This analysis used a societal perspective.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevented MIs, CHD mortality, life-years gained, and cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained in 2000-2020.
RESULTS: Initiating beta-blocker use for all MI survivors except those with 
absolute contraindications in 2000 and continuing treatment for 20 years would 
result in 4300 fewer CHD deaths, 3500 MIs prevented, and 45,000 life-years 
gained compared with current use. The incremental cost per QALY gained would be 
$4500. If this increase in beta-blocker use were implemented in all first-MI 
survivors annually over 20 years, beta-blockers would save $18 million and 
result in 72,000 fewer CHD deaths, 62,000 MIs prevented, and 447,000 life-years 
gained. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the cost-effectiveness of 
beta-blocker therapy would always be less than $11,000 per QALY gained, even 
under unfavorable assumptions, and may even be cost saving. Restricting 
beta-blockers only to ideal patients (those without absolute or relative 
contraindications) would reduce the epidemiological impact of beta-blocker 
therapy by about 60%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our simulation indicates that increased use of beta-blockers after 
MI would lead to impressive gains in health and would be potentially cost 
saving. JAMA. 2000;284:2748-2754.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.21.2748
PMID: 11105180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Eur J Nucl Med. 2000 Nov;27(11):1598-609. doi: 10.1007/s002590000376.

Cost-effectiveness of FDG-PET for the management of potentially operable 
non-small cell lung cancer: priority for a PET-based strategy after 
nodal-negative CT results.

Dietlein M(1), Weber K, Gandjour A, Moka D, Theissen P, Lauterbach KW, Schicha 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Cologne, Germany.

Decision analysis is used here to establish the most cost-effective strategy for 
management of potentially operable non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs). The 
strategies compared were conventional staging (strategy A), dedicated systems of 
positron emission tomography (PET) using fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in 
patients with normal-sized (strategy B) or in patients with enlarged mediastinal 
lymph nodes (part of strategy C), and FDG-PET followed by exclusion from 
surgical procedures when both computed tomography (CT) and PET were positive for 
mediastinal lymph nodes (strategy D) or when PET alone was positive (strategy 
E). Based on published data, the sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET were 
estimated at 0.74 and 0.96 for detecting metastasis in normal-sized mediastinal 
lymph nodes, and at 0.95 and 0.76 when these lymph nodes were enlarged. The 
calculated probability of up-staging to M1 by using PET was 0.05. The costs 
quoted correspond to the cost reimbursed in 1999 by the public health provider 
in Germany. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of strategy B was 
much more favourable (143 EUR/LYS; LYS = life year saved) than the ICER of 
strategy C (36,667 EUR/LYS). In strategy B, the use of PET did not raise the 
overall costs because the costs of PET were almost balanced by a better 
selection of patients for beneficial cancer resection. The exclusion from biopsy 
confirmation in strategies D and E led to cost savings that did not justify the 
