expected reduction in life expectancy. In sensitivity analyses, the ICERs of 
strategy B were robust to the pretest likelihood of N2/N3, to penalized test 
parameters of PET and to reimbursement of PET. However, the ICER of strategy B 
would be raised to 28,000 EUR/LYS through use of thoracic PET without whole-body 
scanning. To conclude, the implementation of whole-body PET with a full ring of 
detectors in the preoperative staging of patients with NSCLC and normal-sized 
lymph nodes is clearly cost-effective. However, patients with nodal-positive PET 
results should not be excluded from biopsy.

DOI: 10.1007/s002590000376
PMID: 11105815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000 Nov;53(11):1145-9. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00231-6.

Competing risks in absence of independence: impact of AIDS on liver function 
failure mortality, and lung cancer on ischemic heart disease mortality.

Llorca J(1), Delgado-RodrÃ­guez M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Cantabria 
School of Medicine, Av. Cardenal Herrera Oria s/n 39011-Santander, Spain. 
llorcaj@medi.unican.es

The increase in lung cancer (LC) mortality can produce a decrease in mortality 
from other causes, including ischemic heart disease (IHD). This problem (called 
the competing risks problem) has been addressed usually assuming independence 
between the competing causes of death. Our purpose is to show that assuming 
dependence of causes of death allows obtaining a better estimation of cumulative 
mortality. We use a clinical epidemiological example on the impact of AIDS in 
liver function failure in a cohort of drug users. The competing effect under 
dependence is 47% higher than under independence. This result is compared with a 
population-based example on LC and IHD mortalities in Spanish people in 1992. LC 
and IHD share tobacco smoking as a common risk factor, so independence cannot be 
assumed. Under the independence assumption, both life expectancy and number of 
deaths from IHD are underestimated. The difference is small compared to the 
model computed under dependence and it occurs mainly in the elderly (0.3% more 
deaths in people aged 70 and over).

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00231-6
PMID: 11106888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Dec;32(6):1043-51. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.111281.

Frequency of postoperative carotid duplex surveillance and type of closure: 
results from a randomized trial.

AbuRahma AF(1), Robinson PA, Mullins DA, Holt SM, Herzog TA, Mowery NT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of West Virginia 
University, Charleston Division, Charleston Area Medical Center, USA.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: In several nonrandomized studies investigators have reported 
on the value of postoperative carotid duplex surveillance (PCDS) with mixed 
results; however the type of closure was not analyzed in these studies. In this 
study we analyze the frequency and timing of postoperative carotid duplex 
ultrasound scanning according to the type of closure from a randomized carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) trial comparing primary closure (PC) versus patching.
PATIENT POPULATION AND METHODS: We randomized 399 CEAs into 135 PCs, 134 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) patch closures, and 130 vein patch closures 
(VPCs) with a mean follow-up of 47 months. PCDS was done at 1, 6, and 12 months 
and every year thereafter (a mean of 4.0 studies per artery). Kaplan-Meier 
analysis was used to estimate the rate of > or = 80% restenosis over time and 
the time frame of progression from < 50%, to 50%-79% and > or = 80% stenosis.
RESULTS: Restenoses of > or =80% developed in 24 (21%) arteries with PC and nine 
(4%) with patching. Kaplan-Meier estimate of freedom of > or = 80% restenosis at 
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years was 92%, 83%, 80%, 76%, and 68% for PC, respectively, 
and 100%, 99%, 98%, 98%, and 91% for patching, respectively, (P <.01). Of 56 
arteries with 20% to 50% restenosis, two of 28 patch closures and 10 of 28 PCs 
progressed to 50% to < 80% restenosis (P =.02); none of the patch closures and 
six of 28 PCs progressed to > or =80% (P =.03). In PCs, the median time to 
progression from <50% to 50%-79%, < 50% to > or =80%, and 50%-79% to > or = 80% 
was 42, 46, and 7 months, respectively. Of the 24 arteries with > or =80% 
restenosis in PC, 10 were symptomatic. Thus, assuming th symptomatic restenosis 
would have undergone duplex scan examinations regardless, there were 14 
asymptomatic arteries (12%) that could have been detected only with PCDS 
(estimated cost, $139, 200), and those patients would have been candidates for 
redo CEA. Of the 9 arteries (3 PTFE closures and 6 VPCs) with > or =80% 
restenosis with patch closures, 6 asymptomatic (4 VPCs and 2 PTFE closures) 
arteries (3%) could have been detected with PCDS. In patients with normal duplex 
scan findings at the first 6 months, only four (2%) of 222 patched arteries (two 
asymptomatic) developed > or = 80% restenosis versus five (38%) of 13 in 
patients with abnormal duplex scan examination findings (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: PCDS is beneficial in patients with PC, but is less beneficial in 
patients with patch closure. PCDS examinations at 6 months and at 1- to 2-year 
intervals for several years after PC are adequate. For patients with patching, a 
6-month postoperative duplex scan examination with normal results is adequate.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.111281
PMID: 11107075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Dec;32(6):1071-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.111408.

Pedal branch artery bypass: a viable limb salvage option.

Connors JP(1), Walsh DB, Nelson PR, Powell RJ, Fillinger MF, Zwolak RM, 
Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Dartmouth 
Medical School, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA.

PURPOSE: We reviewed our experience with pedal branch artery (PBA) bypass to 
confirm the role of these target arteries for limb salvage and to identify 
patient and technical factors that may be associated with graft patency and limb 
salvage.
METHODS: In this retrospective study we analyzed 24 vein grafts to PBAs 
performed from 1988 to 1998 for limb salvage in 23 patients who had no suitable 
tibial, peroneal, or dorsal pedal target arteries. These PBA grafts were 
compared with 133 perimalleolar posterior tibial, defined at or below the ankle, 
or dorsalis pedis bypass grafts performed contemporaneously; the Kaplan-Meier 
life table was used in the analysis of graft patency and limb salvage. Life 
table analyses and logistic regression analysis of prognostic patient variables 
were also performed.
RESULTS: The PBA bypass represented 3% of infrainguinal revascularizations for 
chronic critical limb ischemia at our institution over the study period. 
Patients who received PBA bypasses were more likely to be male (92% vs. 69%, P 
=.02) with lower incidences of overt coronary artery disease (33% vs. 50%, P 
=.12) and stroke (0% vs 15%, P =.04), and a higher incidence of end-stage renal 
disease (21% vs 8%, P =.06) than those undergoing perimalleolar bypass. 
Seventeen percent of PBA bypasses were performed with the anterior lateral 
malleolar artery, a vessel not previously described as a common bypass target. 
Two-year primary patency and limb salvage for PBA versus perimalleolar bypass 
was 70% versus 80% (P =.16) and 78% versus 91% (P = .28), respectively. Patency 
and limb salvage rates were no different in bypasses with above-knee or 
below-knee inflow arteries.
CONCLUSION: An autogenous vein bypass to the PBA, though rarely required, 
provides acceptable primary patency and limb salvage when compared with 
perimalleolar tibial artery bypass when no suitable, more proximal target 
arteries are available. The PBA bypass should be considered before major 
amputation is undertaken.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.111408
PMID: 11107078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Dec;32(6):1180-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.109770.

Incidentally detected stenoses proximal to grafts originating below the common 
femoral artery: do they affect graft patency or warrant repair in asymptomatic 
patients?

Treiman GS(1), Ashrafi A, Lawrence PF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, and the 
Salt Lake City Veterans Administration Medical Center, Salt Lake, Utah, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Stenoses in infrageniculate arteries proximal to a lower extremity 
vein graft may reduce flow velocity through the bypass graft and are thought to 
predispose to graft occlusion. Repair of these lesions has been recommended to 
preserve graft function. This study was undertaken to better define the natural 
history of grafts below inflow lesions and to evaluate the necessity of repair 
to preserve graft patency.
METHODS: From 1994 through 1999, patients undergoing lower extremity vein grafts 
by a single surgeon at a university hospital and an affiliated teaching hospital 
were placed in a prospective protocol for proximal infrageniculate native artery 
and graft surveillance through use of duplex scanning. The records of those 
patients with grafts originating distal to the common femoral artery were 
evaluated; they form the basis for this report. Arteriograms were obtained 
before bypass grafting, and no patient had a stenosis greater than 50% diameter 
reduction proximal to the graft origin. Follow-up scans were obtained from the 
common femoral artery through the graft and outflow artery. The peak systolic 
velocity and velocity ratio in an infrageniculate native artery proximal to the 
graft origin were recorded, as were the location and the time interval since the 
bypass graft. Repair of these proximal lesions was not performed during the 
course of this study. Revision of the bypass graft or its anastomoses was 
undertaken according to preestablished duplex scan criteria.
RESULTS: During this time, 288 autogenous infrainguinal bypass grafts were 
performed, of which 159 originated below the common femoral artery; of these, 74 
were from the superficial femoral artery, 29 from the profunda femoris artery, 
49 from the popliteal artery, and 7 from a tibial artery. The maximum peak 
systolic velocity proximal to the graft origin was more than 250 in 38 arteries 
(25%) and more than 300 in 26 arteries (16%). The velocity ratio was 3.0 or more 
in 32 arteries at the same location as the peak systolic velocity and 3.5 or 
more in 23 arteries (15%), confirming hemodynamically significant stenoses at 
these sites. The location of peak systolic velocity was the common femoral 
artery in 81 patients (51%), the superficial femoral artery in 50 (31%), the 
popliteal artery in 22 (14%), and a tibial artery in 6 (4%). Follow-up ranged 
from 8 to 60 months (mean, 35 months). During follow-up, 19 patients died, 18 
with patent grafts. Overall, nine grafts occluded. One of the occluded grafts 
had a velocity ratio greater than 3.0; this may have contributed to graft 
thrombosis. The other occlusions resulted from an unrepaired graft lesion in 2 
patients, graft infection in 2 patients, and graft ligation necessitated by 
below-knee amputation in 2 patients. No cause for the occlusion could be 
identified in two of the grafts (neither had evidence of proximal arterial 
stenosis). Assisted primary patency rates were 95% and 91% at 3 and 5 years, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For grafts originating distal to the common femoral artery, 
stenoses proximal to the graft do not affect bypass graft patency and do not 
require repair to prevent graft occlusion. Surveillance of these lesions may 
therefore be unnecessary, inasmuch as the repair of proximal lesions should not 
be undertaken to preserve graft function.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.109770
PMID: 11107091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Soc Biol. 2000;194(1):19-23.

[Selective pressure in host-parasite systems].

[Article in French]

Combes C(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie, UniversitÃ©, Avenue de Villeneuve, Perpignan.

Selective pressures in host-parasite systems are the result of a continuous 
conflict between the divergent interests of each partner, on the long run. 
Whereas the fitness (lifetime reproductive success) of parasites is usually 
increased by a higher frequency of encounters with susceptible hosts and a 
better survival rate after infection, the fitness of hosts is increased by 
opposite processes, avoidance of encounters with infective stages and 
destruction of the parasites. These selective processes, often referred to as 
coevolution or arms races are in agreement with the Red Queen hypothesis of Van 
Valen, which assumes indefinite adaptive changes in both partners, in order to 
set up counter-measures against the weapons of "the other". Arms races in 
host-parasite systems thus suggest a gradualistic evolution, but this does not 
contradict the present day ideas on the tempo changes in the course of evolution 
(punctuated equilibria). Numerous factors, either genetic (evolutionary lag...), 
environmental (nutritional status...) or cultural (prevention, vaccination, 
therapy...) influence the severity of infections at an individual scale. The 
"terrain", which is a component of the individual phenotype, is thus at the 
cross-roads of genes, environment and culture. Humans must count more on their 
intelligence than on natural selection to prevent and cure infectious and 
parasitic diseases.

PMID: 11107545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Clin Ter. 2000 Jul-Aug;151(4):235-9.

[Quality of life in hemodialyis patients: the effect of educational status].

[Article in Italian]

Di Corrado D(1), Di Nuovo S, Iannetti E, Carpinteri G, Vitale M, Squatrito R, 
Catalano D, Trovato GM.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Psicologia, FacoltÃ  di Scienze della Formazione, UniversitÃ  di 
Catania, Italia.

INTRODUCTION: Hemodialysis has a major influence on the quality of life of 
chronic renal failure patients. Great attention is currently paid to the 
development of supporting programmes for this patient group. Aim of this study 
was to evaluate the quality of life in maintenance dialysis and to research the 
influence of various factors related to treatment and ESRD on quality of life, 
taking into account also the level of school instruction.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Reduced functional abilities, as measured by the Sickness 
Impact Profile (SIP), and Functional Living Test (FLT), derived by Karnofsky 
Activity Scale were assessed; Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) and 
semistructured interviews, including a clinical grading of symptoms were 
considered vs. age, duration of dialysis, level of school instruction. The study 
was performed with 40 hemodialysis patients, aged 57.4 +/- 14.9 years (range 
22-79), treated since at least three years.
RESULTS: Significant (P < 0.05) independent correlates with higher SIP scores 
(greater disability) and Functional Living Test were lower educational level, 
and the score of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). No correlation was 
found for any of the three scales vs. age and vs. dialytic age; no gender 
difference was observed.
DISCUSSION: A greater care in considering Quality of Life questionnaires is 
warranted, especially for the severe interference of instruction level of 
patients on results. QALY (Quality Adjusted Life Years), used as a tool for 
decision-making in clinical and political subsets, can include critical bias 
that invalidate conclusion.

PMID: 11107671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Przegl Lek. 2000;57(6):358-61.

[Hemochromatosis--report of 2 cases].

[Article in Polish]

Cibor D(1), CieÄko-Michalska I, Mach T.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Gastroenterologii Collegium Medicum, Uniwersytetu 
JagielloÅskiego w Krakowie.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is an iron metabolism disorder known for a century, 
leading to iron overload and dysfunction of the major organs of the body. Early 
diagnosis and treatment result in a normal life expectancy. Authors present a 
report of two cases (the father and his son) in early stadium of the disease.

PMID: 11107874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Angiology. 2000 Oct;51(10):817-26. doi: 10.1177/000331970005101003.

The effect of high-protein diets on coronary blood flow.

Fleming RM(1).

Author information:
(1)The Fleming Heart and Health Institute and the Camelot Foundation, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68114, USA. rfmd1@uswest.net

Recent research has demonstrated that successful simultaneous treatment of 
multiple risk factors including cholesterol, triglycerides, homocysteine, 
lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)], fibrinogen, antioxidants, endothelial dysfunction, 
inflammation, infection, and dietary factors can lead to the regression of 
coronary artery disease and the recovery of viable myocardium. However, 
preliminary work revealed that a number of individuals enrolled in the original 
study went on popular high-protein diets in an effort to lose weight. Despite 
increasing numbers of individuals following high-protein diets, little or no 
information is currently available regarding the effect of these diets on 
coronary artery disease and coronary blood flow. Twenty-six people were studied 
for 1 year by using myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), echocardiography (ECHO), 
and serial blood work to evaluate the extent of changes in regional coronary 
blood flow, regional wall motion abnormalities, and several independent 
variables known to be important in the development and progression of coronary 
artery disease. Treatment was based on homocysteine, Lp (a), C-reactive protein 
(C-RP), triglycerides, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 
and fibrinogen levels. Each variable was independently treated as previously 
reported. MPI and ECHO were performed at the beginning and end of the study for 
each individual. The 16 people (treatment group/TG) studied modified their 
dietary intake as instructed. Ten additional individuals elected a different 
dietary regimen consisting of a "high-protein" (high protein group/HPG) diet, 
which they believed would "improve" their overall health. Patients in the TG 
demonstrated a reduction in each of the independent variables studied with 
regression in both the extent and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) as 
quantitatively measured by MPI. Recovery of viable myocardium was seen in 43.75% 
of myocardial segments in these patients, documented with both MPI and ECHO 
evaluations. Individuals in the HPG showed worsening of their independent 
variables. Most notably, fibrinogen, Lp (a), and C-RP increased by an average of 
14%, 106%, and 61% respectively. Progression of the extent and severity of CAD 
was documented in each of the vascular territories with an overall cumulative 
progression of 39.7%. The differences between progression and extension of 
disease in the HPG and the regression of disease in the TG were statistically 
(p<0.001) significant. Patients following recommended treatment for each of the 
independent variables were able to regress both the extent and severity of their 
coronary artery disease (CAD), as well as improve their myocardial wall motion 
(function) while following the prescribed medical and dietary guidelines. 
However, individuals receiving the same medical treatment but following a 
high-protein diet showed a worsening of independent risk factors, in addition to 
progression of CAD. These results would suggest that high-protein diets may 
precipitate progression of CAI) through increases in lipid deposition and 
inflammatory and coagulation pathways.

DOI: 10.1177/000331970005101003
PMID: 11108325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Health Technol Assess. 2000;4(29):1-123.

Screening for hypercholesterolaemia versus case finding for familial 
hypercholesterolaemia: a systematic review and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Marks D(1), Wonderling D, Thorogood M, Lambert H, Humphries SE, Neil HA.

Author information:
(1)The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Department of Public 
Health and Policy, Health Promotion Research Unit, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: In the majority of people with familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) 
the disorder is caused by a mutation of the low-density lipoprotein receptor 
gene that impairs its proper function, resulting in very high levels of plasma 
cholesterol. Such levels result in early and severe atherosclerosis, and hence 
substantial excess mortality from coronary heart disease. Most people with FH 
are undiagnosed or only diagnosed after their first coronary event, but early 
detection and treatment with hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme (HMG CoA) reductase 
inhibitors (statins) can reduce morbidity and mortality. The prevalence of FH in 
the UK population is estimated to be 1 in 500, which means that approximately 
110,000 people are affected.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether screening for FH is appropriate. To determine 
which system of screening is most acceptable and cost-effective. To assess the 
deleterious psychosocial effects of genetic and clinical screening for an 
asymptomatic treatable inherited condition. To assess whether the risks of 
screening outweigh potential benefits.
DATA SOURCES: Relevant papers were identified through a search of the electronic 
databases. Additional papers referenced in the search material were identified 
and collected. Known researchers in the field were contacted and asked to supply 
information on unpublished or ongoing studies. INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA: 
SCREENING AND TREATMENT: The review included studies of the mortality and 
morbidity associated with FH, the effectiveness and cost of treatment (ignoring 
pre-statin therapies in adults), and of the effectiveness or cost of possible 
screening strategies for FH. PSYCHOSOCIAL EFFECTS OF SCREENING: The search for 
papers on the psychological and social effects of screening for a treatable 
inherited condition was limited to the last 5 years because recent developments 
in genetic testing have changed the nature and implications of such screening 
tests. Papers focusing on genetic testing for FH and breast cancer were 
included. Papers relating to the risk of coronary heart disease with similarly 
modifiable outcome (non-FH) were also included. DATA EXTRACTION AND ASSESSMENT 
OF VALIDITY: A data assessment tool was designed to assess the quality and 
validity of the papers which reported primary data for the social and 
psychological effects of screening. Available guidelines for systematically 
reviewing papers concentrated on quantitative methods, and were of limited 
relevance. An algorithm was developed which could be used for both the 
qualitative and quantitative literature. MODELLING METHODS: A model was 
constructed to investigate the relative cost and effectiveness of various forms 
of population screening (universal or opportunistic) and case-finding screening 
(screening relatives of known FH cases). All strategies involved a two-stage 
process: first, identifying those people with cholesterol levels sufficiently 
elevated to be compatible with a diagnosis of FH, and then either making the 
diagnosis based on clinical signs and a family history of coronary disease or 
carrying out genetic tests. Cost-effectiveness has been measured in terms of 
incremental cost per year of life gained.
RESULTS: MODELLING COST-EFFECTIVENESS: FH is a life-threatening condition with a 
long presymptomatic state. Diagnostic tests are reasonably reliable and 
acceptable, and treatment with statins substantially improves prognosis. 
Therefore, it is appropriate to consider systematic screening for this 
condition. Case finding amongst relatives of FH cases was the most 
cost-effective strategy, and universal systematic screening the least 
cost-effective. However, when targeted at young people (16 year olds) universal 
screening was also cost-effective. Screening patients admitted to hospital with 
premature myocardial infarction was also relatively cost-effective. Screening is 
least cost-effective in men aged over 35 years, because the gains in life 
expectancy are small. (ABSTRACT TRUNCA

PMID: 11109029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Acta Clin Belg. 2000 Sep-Oct;55(5):257-65.

[Cost effectiveness of vaccination against pneumococcal bacteremia in the 
elderly: the results in Belgium].

[Article in Dutch]

De Graeve D(1), Verhaegen J, Ament A, Baltussen R.

Author information:
(1)Vakgroep algemene en publieke economie, Universiteit van Antwepen, UFSIA. 
Diana.Degraeve@ufsia.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that pneumococcal vaccination of older 
persons would be cost-effective in preventing pneumococcal pneumonia, but 
evidence of clinical protection for this condition is uncertain. Given much 
better evidence of vaccination effectiveness against invasive disease, studies 
showing that vaccination is cost-effective in preventing invasive disease alone 
could provide strong support for public policies to vaccinate older persons.
METHODS: We examined the cost-effectiveness of preventing invasive pneumococcal 
infection by vaccination with the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
of persons > or = 65 years in age in Belgium. The direct medical costs expressed 
per quality adjusted life year (QALYs) of a cohort of vaccinated persons was 
compared with the costs per QALY in a cohort of persons who are not vaccinated.
RESULTS: Preventing invasive pneumococcal infections by vaccinating elderly 
persons clearly benefits people's health. By vaccinating 10,000 persons over 65 
years of age, approximately eight QALYs can be gained compared with no 
vaccination. Achieving these health benefits however requires additional costs,: 
30,000 ECU per QALY gained. The cost-effectiveness ratio is slightly better 
(i.e. 25,000 ECU per QALY) for the age group 65-75 years, and slightly worse 
(i.e. 35,000 ECU per QALY) for the age group 75-84 years. It increases sharply 
to 77,000 ECU per QALY for the persons over 85 years of age. An extensive 
one-dimensional sensitivity analysis did not greatly affect these results. If 
vaccination is also clinically effective in preventing pneumococcal pneumonia, 
vaccinating all elderly persons is cost saving.
CONCLUSION: Using empirical epidemiological data, pneumococcal vaccination to 
prevent invasive pneumococcal disease is acceptably to moderately cost-effective 
in Belgium. On the basis of our findings, we believe public health authorities 
should consider policies for encouraging pneumococcal vaccination for all 
persons > or = 65 years in age.

PMID: 11109640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Fogorv Sz. 2000 Nov;93(11):335-41.

[Cantilever bridges--a cross-sectional study].

[Article in Hungarian]

Somogyi E(1), FejÃ©rdy P, Lindeisz F, Linninger M.

Author information:
(1)FogpÃ³tlÃ¡stani Klinika, Semmelweis OrvostudomÃ¡nyi Egyetem.

Life expectancy and functional performance of the cantilever bridges is 
determined by the length of the cantilever pontic(s) and by the number and 
localisation of the abutment teeth. No overall epidemiological survey covering 
this topic was found in the literature. 529 distally cantilevered bridges were 
evaluated by the authors. There were 310 upper and lower cases. The following 
parameters were recorded: length of the cantilever part (number of units), the 
relationship of the cantilevered pontics and the bridge, and the position of the 
fixed restoration in the dental arch. Previously the cantilevered bridge design 
was not accepted in Hungary but in spite of this fact a large number of distally 
cantilevered bridges were made in the country. Most of the examined cantilever 
bridges are properly designed: two abutments are supporting one pontic (342 
cases, 65.56%). However some of the solutions are too risky: one abutment, one 
cantilevered pontic (110 cases, 20.45%), or two abutments, two cantilevered 
pontics (53 cases, 9.85%).

PMID: 11109740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Psychosomatics. 2000 Nov-Dec;41(6):500-4. doi: 10.1176/appi.psy.41.6.500.

Prognostic awareness and the terminally ill.

Chochinov HM(1), Tataryn DJ, Wilson KG, Ennis M, Lander S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

The authors rated patients who were in advanced stages of cancer and in their 
final few weeks of life on their level of awareness of their medical prognosis 
(N = 200, mean age = 71.0 years). The authors measured prognostic awareness with 
a semistructured interview, dividing patients into those acknowledging No 
Awareness, Partial Awareness, and Complete Awareness. The authors also 
administered a semistructured interview for depressive disorders, along with an 
assessment of various demographic and social support measures. Nineteen patients 
(9.5%) denied awareness of both their terminal prognosis and foreshortened life 
expectancy. Thirty-four patients (17%) were placed in the partial awareness 
category, with the remaining 147 patients (73.5%) reporting complete awareness. 
Depression was nearly three times greater among patients who did not acknowledge 
their prognosis, as compared with those who demonstrated partial or complete 
acknowledgment (chi2 = 7.094), P = 0.029). In addition to depression, male 
patients, older patients, and those having "intense social contact" were 
associated with lower ratings of prognostic awareness. Dying patients differ in 
respect to their capacity to acknowledge their prognosis. Prognostic disavowal 
is most likely to arise in patients with underlying psychological distress and 
emotional turmoil.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.psy.41.6.500
PMID: 11110113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Jpn Circ J. 2000 Nov;64(11):814-8. doi: 10.1253/jcj.64.814.

Efficacy of mitral valve replacement for patients with mitral regurgitation and 
a dilated left ventricle.

Hirata N(1), Sakai K, Sawa Y, Ohtake S, Naka Y, Matsuda H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Osaka University Medical School, Japan.

Mitral regurgitation is a significant complication of end-stage cardiomyopathy, 
and its existence predicts poor survival. In general, it is thought that mitral 
valve replacement (MVR) alone is ineffective; however, there are few detailed 
reports of the clinical course of patients who have undergone MVR. Five patients 
with mitral regurgitation whose preoperative left ventricular end-systolic 
volume index was more than 100 ml/m2 were studied. Although their prognosis late 
after MVR became poor, none of them died within 30 days of the operation. 
Postoperative cardiac catheterization was performed 6.3+/-1.1 months after 
surgery; the end-diastolic volume had reduced (before: 193+/-26 ml/m2; after: 
166+/-34 ml/m2, p<0.05), but the end-systolic volume had not (before: 110+/-7 
ml/m2; after: 112+/-32 ml/m2). The end-systolic wall stress was substantially 
elevated preoperatively (238+/-29 kdyne/cm2) and tended to increase after 
surgery (295+/-96 kdyne/cm2). All the patients were able to return to work at 
some stage postoperatively (their New York Heart Association functional class 
improved to I or II), but 3 of the 5 patients died suddenly of heart failure at 
3.3+/-1.6 years after surgery and the New York Heart Association functional 
class of the others worsened to III again. Mitral valve surgery, including MVR, 
can manage severe end-stage heart disease with mitral regurgitation.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.64.814
PMID: 11110423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Blood. 2000 Dec 15;96(13):4075-83.

Karyotypic analysis predicts outcome of preremission and postremission therapy 
in adult acute myeloid leukemia: a Southwest Oncology Group/Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group Study.

Slovak ML(1), Kopecky KJ, Cassileth PA, Harrington DH, Theil KS, Mohamed A, 
Paietta E, Willman CL, Head DR, Rowe JM, Forman SJ, Appelbaum FR.

Author information:
(1)City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA, USA.

The associations of cytogenetics with complete remission (CR) rates, overall 
survival (OS), and outcomes after CR were studied in 609 previously untreated 
AML patients younger than 56 years old in a clinical trial comparing 3 intensive 
postremission therapies: intensive chemotherapy, autologous transplantation 
(ABMT), or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (alloBMT) from matched related 
donors. Patients were categorized into favorable, intermediate, unfavorable, and 
unknown cytogenetic risk groups based on pretreatment karyotypes. CR rates 
varied significantly (P <.0001) among the 4 groups: favorable, 84% (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 77%-90%); intermediate, 76% (CI, 71%-81%); 
unfavorable, 55% (CI, 48%-63%); and unknown, 54% (CI, 33%-74%). There was 
similar significant heterogeneity of OS (P <.0001), with the estimated relative 
risk of death from any cause being 1.50 (CI, 1.10-2.05), 3. 33 (CI, 2.43-4.55), 
and 2.66 (CI, 1.59-4.45) for the intermediate, unfavorable, and unknown risk 
groups, respectively, compared with the favorable group. In multivariate 
analyses, the effects of cytogenetic risk status on CR rate and OS could not be 
explained by other patient or disease characteristics. Among postremission 
patients, survival from CR varied significantly among favorable, intermediate, 
and unfavorable groups (P =.0003), with significant evidence of interaction (P 
=.017) between the effects of treatment and cytogenetic risk status on survival. 
Patients with favorable cytogenetics did significantly better following ABMT and 
alloBMT than with chemotherapy alone, whereas patients with unfavorable 
cytogenetics did better with alloBMT. Cytogenetic risk status is a significant 
factor in predicting response of AML patients to therapy; however, to tighten 
treatment correlates within genetically defined AML subsets, a significantly 
larger leukemia cytogenetic database is warranted.

PMID: 11110676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Blood. 2000 Dec 15;96(13):4084-90.

Evolving characteristics of AIDS-related lymphoma.

Levine AM(1), Seneviratne L, Espina BM, Wohl AR, Tulpule A, Nathwani BN, Gill 
PS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, and Division of 
Hematopathology, Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA. hornor@hsc.usc.edu

Over time, the epidemiologic and demographic characteristics of AIDS have 
changed in the United States, while the use of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy has changed the natural history of the disease. The goal of the study 
was to ascertain any changes in the epidemiologic, immunologic, pathologic, or 
clinical characteristics of AIDS-related lymphoma (ARL) over the course of the 
AIDS epidemic. Records of 369 patients with ARL diagnosed or treated at a single 
institution from 1982 through 1998 were reviewed. Single institutional data were 
compared to population-based data from the County of Los Angeles. Significant 
changes in the demographic profile of patients with newly diagnosed ARL have 
occurred, with the later time intervals associated with a higher prevalence in 
women (P =.25), in Latino/Hispanic individuals (P <.0001), and in those who 
acquired human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) heterosexually (P =.01). These 
changes were similar in both countywide, population-based analyses and in those 
from the single institution. The median CD4(+) lymphocyte count at lymphoma 
diagnosis has decreased significantly over the years, from 177/dL in the 
earliest time period (1982-1986), to 53/dL in the last time period from 1995 to 
1998 (P =.0006). The pathologic spectrum of disease has also changed, with a 
decrease in the prevalence of small noncleaved lymphoma (P =.0005) and an 
increase in diffuse large cell lymphoma (P <.0001). Despite changes in the use 
of antiretroviral or chemotherapy regimens, the median survival has not 
significantly changed.

PMID: 11110677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Blood. 2000 Dec 15;96(13):4091-5.

Serum level of soluble urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor is a strong 
and independent predictor of survival in human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Sidenius N(1), Sier CF, Ullum H, Pedersen BK, Lepri AC, Blasi F, Eugen-Olsen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pathology and Medicine, Molecular Genetics Unit, 
DIBIT, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. nicolai.sidenius@hsr.it

Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection has been shown to result in 
up-regulation of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR/CD87) 
on leukocytes in vitro and in vivo. The objective of this study was to 
investigate whether this up-regulation is paralleled by higher serum levels of 
soluble uPAR (suPAR) in patients with advanced HIV-1 disease and whether the 
serum level of suPAR is predictive of clinical outcome. Using an enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay, the level of suPAR was measured retrospectively in serum 
samples from 314 patients with HIV-1 infection. By Kaplan-Meier and Cox 
regression analyses, the serum suPAR levels were correlated to survival with 
AIDS-related death as the end point. High levels of serum suPAR (greater than 
median) were associated with poor overall survival, and Kaplan-Meier analysis on 
patients stratified by suPAR level demonstrated a continuous increase in 
mortality rates with higher suPAR levels. After adjustment for accepted 
prognostic markers-including Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-defined 
clinical stages, CD4 counts, viral load, beta2-microglobulin, and age-the 
prognostic strength of suPAR remained highly significant, indicating that the 
serum suPAR level is a novel, strong, and independent predictor of survival in 
HIV-1 infection. This report is the first to demonstrate an important 
association between the plasminogen activator system and disease progression in 
HIV-1 infection.

PMID: 11110678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Blood. 2000 Dec 15;96(13):4096-102.

Engraftment and survival after unrelated-donor bone marrow transplantation: a 
report from the national marrow donor program.

Davies SM(1), Kollman C, Anasetti C, Antin JH, Gajewski J, Casper JT, Nademanee 
A, Noreen H, King R, Confer D, Kernan NA.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. davie008@tc.umn.edu

We analyzed engraftment of unrelated-donor (URD) bone marrow in 5246 patients 
who received transplants facilitated by the National Marrow Donor Program 
between August 1991 and June 1999. Among patients surviving at least 28 days, 4% 
had primary graft failure (failure to achieve an absolute neutrophil count > 5 x 
10(8)/L before death or second stem-cell infusion). Multivariate logistic 
regression analysis showed that engraftment was associated with marrow matched 
at HLA-A, HLA-B, and DRB1; higher cell dose; younger recipient; male recipient; 
and recipient from a non-African American ethnic group. More rapid myeloid 
engraftment was associated with marrow serologically matched at HLA-A and HLA-B, 
DRB1 match, higher cell dose (in non-T-cell-depleted cases), younger recipient, 
recipient seronegativity for cytomegalovirus (CMV), male donor, no methotrexate 
for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis, and transplantation done in more 
recent years. A platelet count higher than 50 x 10(9)/L was achieved by 47% of 
patients by day 100. Conditional on survival to day 100, survival at 3 years was 
61% in those with platelet engraftment at day 30, 58% in those with engraftment 
between day 30 and day 100, and 33% in those without engraftment at day 100 (P 
<.0001). Factors favoring platelet engraftment were higher cell dose, DRB1 
allele match, recipient seronegativity for CMV, HLA-A and HLA-B serologically 
matched donor, and male donor. Secondary graft failure occurred in 10% of 
patients achieving initial engraftment, and 18% of those patients are alive. 
These data demonstrate that quality of engraftment is an important predictor of 
survival after URD bone marrow transplantation.

PMID: 11110679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Radiology. 2000 Dec;217(3):665-72. doi: 10.1148/radiology.217.3.r00dc39665.

Radio-frequency ablation of renal cell carcinoma: early clinical experience.

Gervais DA(1), McGovern FJ, Wood BJ, Goldberg SN, McDougal WS, Mueller PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Fruit St, Boston, MA 
02114, USA. dgervais@partners.org

PURPOSE: To report the authors' early experience with radio-frequency (RF) 
ablation of renal cell carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four percutaneous RF ablation treatments for nine 
tumors were performed in eight patients with renal cell carcinoma. Indications 
included coexistent morbidity, previous surgery, or solitary kidney in patients 
with a life expectancy shorter than 10 years. Smaller (</=3-cm) peripheral 
lesions (n = 3) were treated with single electrodes. All but one of the larger 
(>3 cm) and/or central lesions (n = 6) were treated with cluster or multiple 
electrodes. Patients returned for a second treatment when follow-up imaging 
depicted tumor enhancement. Follow-up imaging was performed at 1 and 3 months 
and then at 6-month intervals, with a mean follow-up of 10.3 months. Seven 
patients were alive at least 6 months after their initial treatment.
RESULTS: All five exophytic tumors were free of enhancement. One of three 
central tumors was free of enhancement. One tumor had both central and exophytic 
components and was free of enhancement. Three tumors were 3 cm or smaller and 
free of enhancement. Of the six tumors larger than 3 cm, four were free of 
enhancement.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous RF ablation is a promising treatment for select 
patients with renal cell carcinoma. The ultimate role of this modality will 
continue to evolve and warrants further study.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.217.3.r00dc39665
PMID: 11110926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Vox Sang. 2000;79(3):145-50. doi: 10.1159/000031232.

Long-term hematopoietic engraftment after autologous peripheral blood progenitor 
cell transplantation in pediatric patients: effect of the CD34+ cell dose.

Diaz MA(1), Vicent MG, Garcia-Sanchez F, Vicario JL, Madero L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, NiÃ±o JesÃºs Children's 
Hospital, Autonomous University of Madrid, Spain. mtcanto@jazzfree.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: We analyzed the relationship between long-term 
hematopoietic recovery and the number of CD34+ cells infused in order to 
determine the optimal dose of CD34+ cells for rapid and stable engraftment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between November 1993 and December 1998, 96 consecutive 
autologous transplantations were performed in 92 pediatric patients with 
different malignancies. Peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) were mobilized 
by G-CSF alone (12 microg/kg/day s.c., Neupogen((R)); Amgen, Thousand Oaks, 
Calif., USA) and collected using a Cobe Spectra blood cell separator (Cobe, 
Denver, Colo., USA) through a central venous catheter with double lumen. The 
CD34+ cell contents of apheresis products were assessed by means of 
flow-cytometric analysis using an Epics Elite flow cytometer (Coulter, USA).
RESULTS: The median number of CD34+ cells infused was 3.2 x 10(6)/kg (range 
0.17-44.4). The median times for short-term engraftment (neutrophil count >0.5 x 
10(9)/l and platelet count >20 x 10(9)/l) was 9 (range: 7-16) and 13 days 
(range: 7-91), respectively. The median times for long-term engraftment 
(platelet count >50 x 10(9)/l and >100 x 10(9)/l) was 21 (range: 10-249) and 45 
days (range: 12-288). When the infused CD34+ cell dose was >/=5 x 10(6)/kg 
(median 7.99, range 5.01-44.4), there was a statistically significant increase 
in the rate of short- and long-term hematopoietic recovery compared to patients 
transplanted with a lower number of CD34+ cells (p < 0.0001). The earlier 
recovery in the high CD34+ cell group resulted in less transfusional support, 
fewer days on intravenous antibiotics and shorter hospitalization.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms that G-CSF-mobilized PBPC provide rapid short- 
and long-term hematopoietic engraftment in pediatric patients undergoing 
autologous transplantation if a CD34+ cell dose >/=5.0 x 10(6)/kg is infused. As 
this PBPC dose seems to have clinical and potentially economic implications, it 
should be considered the optimal dose for apheresis.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000031232
PMID: 11111232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Int J Nurs Pract. 2000 Apr;6(2):62-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1440-172x.2000.00192.x.

Acute-care nurses' attitudes towards older patients: a literature review.

Courtney M(1), Tong S, Walsh A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Research, School of Nursing, Queensland University of 
Technology, Victoria Park Road, Kelvin Grove, Queensland 4059, Australia. 
m.courtney@qut.edu.au

With increases in life expectancy and increasing numbers of older patients 
utilising the acute setting, attitudes of registered nurses caring for older 
people may affect the quality of care provided. This paper reviews recent 
research on positive and negative attitudes of acute-care nurses towards older 
people. Many negative attitudes reflect ageist streotypes and knowledge deficits 
that significantly influence registered nurses' practice and older patients' 
quality of care. In the acute setting, older patients experience reduced 
independence, limited decision-making opportunities, increased probability of 
developing complications, little consideration of their ageing-related needs, 
limited health education and social isolation. Available instruments to measure 
attitudes towards and knowledge about older people, although reliable and valid, 
are outdated, country-specific and do not include either a patient-focus or a 
caring perspective. This paper argues for the development and utilisation of a 
research instrument that includes both a patient focus and a caring dimension.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-172x.2000.00192.x
PMID: 11111490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Jan;55(1):38-43. doi:
10.1136/jech.55.1.38.

Life expectancy as a summary of mortality in a population: statistical 
considerations and suitability for use by health authorities.

Silcocks PB(1), Jenner DA, Reza R.

Author information:
(1)Trent Institute for Health Services Research, University of Nottingham, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham. p.b.silcocks@nottingham.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the sampling distribution and usefulness of 
expectation of life in comparisons of mortality at health district level or 
below.
DESIGN: Derivation of a formula for the variance of the expectation of life, 
confirmation of the result and generation of the sampling distribution by Monte 
Carlo simulation; comparison of expectation of life with standardised mortality 
ratio (SMR) and other summary indices of mortality.
SETTING: A health district in Trent Region, England.
SUBJECTS: Routinely available mortality statistics at electoral ward level and 
above.
MAIN RESULTS: Given reasonable and simple assumptions the sampling distribution 
of the expectation of life is approximately normal. Expectation of life shows a 
high negative correlation with SMR even if the oldest age band for the SMR is 
open ended.
CONCLUSIONS: Where sampling error is an issue, inference concerning differences 
in mortality rates between populations can be based on expectation of life, 
which is better for illustrative purposes than SMR. The formula for the variance 
of the expectation of life is more complex however. If the final age band is 
open ended, its lower bound should be as high as possible to avoid misleading 
results caused by hidden differences in age structure.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.1.38
PMCID: PMC1731769
PMID: 11112949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2000 Dec;32(12):2307-13. doi: 10.1006/jmcc.2000.1260.

Malignant hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by the Arg723Gly mutation in 
beta-myosin heavy chain gene.

Enjuto M(1), Francino A, Navarro-LÃ³pez F, Viles D, ParÃ© JC, Ballesta AM.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cardiology Laboratory, Laboratory of Clinical Biochemistry and the 
Cardiovascular Institute, Hospital Clinic (IDIBAPS), University of Barcelona, 
Villarroel 170, Barcelona, 08036, Spain.

Mutations causing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have been described in nine genes 
encoding sarcomeric proteins. We report a new mutation in three families, with a 
C-->G transversion in nucleotide 12 307 of the beta-myosin heavy chain gene, 
located at the essential light chain interacting region, resulting in the 
replacement of arginine by glycine at amino acid residue 723. PCR amplification 
of the selected regions followed by single strand conformation polymorphism 
analysis, DNA sequencing of the polymorphic patterns and restriction analysis 
were used to detect the mutation. A total of 23 individuals were diagnosed as 
carriers, and seven were obligate carriers or had been clinically diagnosed. The 
Arg723Gly mutation was associated with a malignant phenotype. Ten out of 30 
affected members died suddenly or needed an implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator at a mean age of 42, and seven members developed 
progressive heart failure, leading to death or heart transplant in five, at a 
mean age of 50 years. Echocardiography showed non-obstructive left ventricular 
hypertrophy in affected members older than 20 (sensitivity 68%). Mean survival 
of affected members was 51 years. In conclusion, a new mutation Arg723Gly in 
beta-myosin heavy chain gene is reported which shortens life expectancy because 
of sudden death and end-stage heart failure.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jmcc.2000.1260
PMID: 11113006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Int J Parasitol. 2000 Nov;30(12-13):1283-94. doi:
10.1016/s0020-7519(00)00130-2.

Echinococcosis: an emerging or re-emerging zoonosis?

Eckert J(1), Conraths FJ, Tackmann K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Parasitology, University of Zurich, Winterthurer Strasse 266a, 
CH-8057, Zurich, Switzerland. eje@isi.ch

The aim of this review is a critical discussion of factors actually or 
potentially contributing to persistence or emergence of echinococcosis in 
humans. Alveolar echinococcosis (AE), a life-threatening infection of humans, is 
caused by a larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis. The adult parasite 
inhabits the intestine of foxes and other carnivores and has a wide distribution 
in the northern hemisphere (North America and northern and central Eurasia). 
Recent surveys in central Europe have extended the known geographical occurrence 
of E. multilocularis in foxes from four countries at the end of the 1980s to at 
least 11 countries in 1999. Cases of human AE previously regularly reported from 
only four countries are now recorded from seven countries, but the annual 
incidences are low. Since adequate information from earlier surveys is not 
available, it is not possible to conclude if the new findings reflect a recent 
extension of the parasite's range or just the first identification of hitherto 
unnoticed endemic areas. Evidence of parasite spreading has been reported from 
North America and Japan. Factors with the potential of enhancing the infection 
risk for humans in the future include increasing fox populations and parasite 
prevalences, progressing invasion of cities by foxes, the establishment of urban 
cycles of the parasite, and the spill-over of the E. multilocularis infection 
from wild carnivores to domestic dogs and cats. In view of the potential 
severity and fatality of AE in humans health authorities should initiate 
internationally coordinated countermeasures. Although control programmes against 
human cystic echinococcosis (CE), caused by E. granulosus, have been established 
in some countries and effective control strategies are available, the parasite 
has still a wide geographical distribution affecting many countries of all 
continents. Thus, human CE is persisting in many parts of the world with high 
incidences, and in some areas it is a re-emerging problem. For example, alarming 
increases of the number of human cases have been reported from Bulgaria and 
Kazakhstan, and the People's Republic of China. Progress in control can only be 
expected if health authorities attribute a higher priority to this disease and 
if all modern diagnostic and control options (for example vaccination of 
intermediate host animals) can be used.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7519(00)00130-2
PMID: 11113255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Int J Parasitol. 2000 Nov;30(12-13):1295-303. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7519(00)00133-8.

Neuro-angiostrongyliasis: unresolved issues.

Prociv P(1), Spratt DM, Carlisle MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, University of Queensland, 
Queensland 4072, St. Lucia, Australia. p.prociv@mailbox.uq.edu.au

Angiostrongylus cantonensis, the rat lungworm, probably evolved with its hosts, 
members of the genus Rattus and closely related species, in south-east Asia. 
Since its first discovery in rats in China and in a case of human infection in 
Taiwan, the parasite has been found to infect humans and other mammals across a 
wide and ever-increasing territory, which now encompasses much of south-east 
Asia, Melanesia, Polynesia and eastern Australia. It has also established a 
foothold in Africa, India, the Caribbean and south-eastern USA. This dispersal 
has been a direct result of human activity, and in some cases has been linked 
with the spread of the African giant land snail, Achatina fulica. However, this 
snail is not critical to the extension of the parasite's range, as numerous 
other indigenous molluscan species serve as adequate intermediate hosts; the 
importance of Achatina to the life cycle may have been over-emphasized. In 
Australia, the parasite is established along parts of the east coast, and the 
presence of an indigenous close relative, Angiostrongylus mackerrasae, suggests 
a long association of the parasite with its local rat hosts, a situation 
analogous to that of Angiostrongylus malaysiensis in south-east Asia. These 
three Angiostrongylus species share virtually the same life cycle, but only A. 
cantonensis has been confirmed to be a human pathogen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7519(00)00133-8
PMID: 11113256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2000 Dec 15;1524(2-3):87-93. doi: 
10.1016/s0304-4165(00)00072-6.

Expression, purification and characterization of beta domain and beta domain 
dimer of metallothionein.

Zhou Y(1), Li L, Ru B.

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Protein Engineering, College of Life Sciences, Peking 
University, 100871, Beijing, PR China.

In order to examine the independent self-assembly of the beta fragment of 
metallothionein and the interaction between two domains with the linker 
sequence, Lys-Lys-Ser, the chemically synthesized genes of the beta domain and 
its dimer (beta-KKS-beta) were cloned into vector pGEX-4T-1 and expressed as 
carboxyl terminal extension of glutathione-S-transferase (GST). After the GST 
fusion proteins had been digested with thrombin on a glutathione-Sepharose 4B 
affinity chromatography column, the beta domain and its dimer were purified with 
gel filtration and analyzed for their biochemical and spectroscopic properties. 
Amino acid composition and molecular mass are determined to be consistent with 
the expected value. The analysis of metal content shows that the beta domain and 
its dimer can bind with about 3eq and 6eq divalent metals, respectively. The 
characteristic peak presented around 254 nm in the UV and CD spectrum indicated 
that both the beta domain and its dimer are able to form the cadmium-thiolate 
clusters without the aid of the alpha domain. Furthermore, the absorption peak 
