of the beta domain dimer is much higher than that of the beta domain, which 
suggested that there is an interaction between two beta domains. Finally, the 
metal-binding ability was determined by DTNB competitive reaction and the value 
of half dissociation pH, the results reveal that the beta domain dimer has 
stronger metal-binding ability than the single beta domain, which provides 
further evidence of the interaction between the two domains.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-4165(00)00072-6
PMID: 11113554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Exp Gerontol. 2000 Dec;35(9-10):1111-29. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00194-7.

Demography of longevity: past, present, and future trends.

Wilmoth JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, 2232 Piedmont Avenue, 
Berkeley, CA 94720-2120, USA. jrw@demog.berkeley.edu

Life expectancy at birth has roughly tripled over the course of human history. 
Early gains were due to a general improvement in living standards and organized 
efforts to control the spread of infectious disease. Reductions in infant and 
child mortality in the late 19th and early 20th century led to a rapid increase 
in life expectancy at birth. Since 1970, the main factor driving continued gains 
in life expectancy in industrialized countries is a reduction in death rates 
among the elderly. In particular, death rates due to cardiovascular disease and 
cancer have declined in recent decades thanks to a variety of factors, including 
successful medical intervention. Based on available demographic evidence, the 
human life span shows no sign of approaching a fixed limit imposed by biology or 
other factors. Rather, both the average and the maximum human life span have 
increased steadily over time for more than a century. The complexity and 
historical stability of these changes suggest that the most reliable method of 
predicting the future is merely to extrapolate past trends. Such methods suggest 
that life expectancy at birth in industrialized countries will be about 
85-87years at the middle of the 21st century.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00194-7
PMID: 11113596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Exp Gerontol. 2000 Dec;35(9-10):1405-17. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00182-0.

Nutraceutical interventions may delay aging and the age-related diseases.

Villeponteau B(1), Cockrell R, Feng J.

Author information:
(1)HealthSpan Sciences, Carlsbad, CA 92008, USA. bvill@healthspansciences.com

Largely due to better control of infectious diseases and to year-round access to 
a more nutritious diet, life expectancy in developed countries has increased 
dramatically in the twentieth century. However, as the average age of the 
population has risen, the incidence of chronic age-related diseases such as 
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cardiovascular disease, cancer, arthritis, 
osteoporosis, benign prostatic hyperplasia, late-onset diabetes, and macular 
degeneration have increased. To obtain further significant improvements in both 
lifespan and the quality of life in this century, treatments and nutritional 
changes that address the age-related diseases and the aging process itself need 
to be examined and validated. There are many reports suggesting that oxidative 
stress and certain nutritional deficiencies may contribute to the aging process 
and to many age-related diseases. In this article, we report on two human 
clinical trials using novel antioxidant supplements in which urinary oxidative 
stress is significantly reduced. We also discuss the conceptual basis and 
existing literature for several nutritional supplements that may have beneficial 
effects on aging and age-related diseases. Based on the available data, we 
suggest that human life expectancy can be significantly increased in the 
twenty-first century by optimizing diet and using nutritional supplements.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00182-0
PMID: 11113618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Eur J Heart Fail. 2000 Dec;2(4):413-21. doi: 10.1016/s1388-9842(00)00106-9.

Heart failure in patients seeking medical help at outpatients clinics. Part I. 
General characteristics.

Rywik SL(1), Wagrowska H, Broda G, Sarnecka A, Pytlak A, Polakowska M, Drewla J, 
Korewicki J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease, Stefan 
Cardinal WyszyÅ„ski National Institute of Cardiology, 04-628 Warsaw, Alpejska 42, 
Poland. plmncwwa@ikard.waw.pl

BACKGROUND: During the last decade, the beneficial changes in lifestyle and in 
medical care increased average life expectancy, particularly in patients with 
chronic diseases such as hypertension and coronary heart disease. Unfortunately 
this also increased the number of patients, particularly among the elderly, who 
are susceptible to complications of these conditions such as heart failure. 
Uncontrolled hypertension is known to be a primary cause of heart failure and is 
also known to be very prevalent and frequently uncontrolled in the Polish 
population.
AIM: To estimate the prevalence and characteristics of heart failure among 
patients of 65 years and older seeking medical care in outpatient clinics in 
Poland.
METHODS: The study is a cross-country epidemiological project in which 417 
physicians from outpatient clinics were asked to register 50 consecutive 
patients aged 65 years and above seeking medical care for any cause. Information 
on case history, physical examination (diagnosis of heart failure, NYHA class, 
heart failure symptoms), laboratory tests (resting ECG, chest X-ray, 
echocardiogram) and data concerning pharmacology management during the 2 weeks 
prior to the index visit was obtained.
RESULTS: Over 5 months, 19877 eligible patients (7324 men and 12553 women) 
presented to the 417 participating physicians (90% physicians registered 46-50 
patients). Among the patients, 53% were diagnosed with heart failure (3901 men 
and 6678 women), prevalence did not differ by gender. Among patients with heart 
failure there were 38% of men in NYHA class III or IV and 34% of women. Coronary 
heart disease was a predominant cause of heart failure in 87% of men (26% of 
cases with isolated coronary heart disease, 53% with concomitant hypertension 
and 8% with other diseases), while percentages for women were 80% (15%, 61% and 
4%, respectively). Isolated hypertension was a further cause of heart failure in 
8% of men and 13% of women. Cardiac arrhythmia was found in approximately 20% of 
patients, enlargement of heart size in 32% of patients and peripheral leg edema 
in 54% of men and 64% of women. These symptoms increased with age. Chest X-ray 
revealed cardiomegaly in 68% of men and women and increased cardiothoracic ratio 
(>50%) in approximately 40% of patients. From resting ECGs, cardiac arrhythmia 
was recorded in 21% of patients with heart failure, with atrial fibrillation as 
a predominant disorder (19%). Left ventricular hypertrophy on resting ECG was 
noted in 42% of men and women and old myocardial infarction or cardiac ischemia 
was diagnosed in 71% of men and 66% of women.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Heart failure was diagnosed in over half of outpatients aged 65 
and older; in more than a third of these it was NYHA class III and IV. (2) 
Outpatients with heart failure had a high frequency of co-existing diseases such 
as arrhythmia, coronary heart disease and hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/s1388-9842(00)00106-9
PMID: 11113719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2000 Dec;90(6):689-93.
doi:  10.1067/moe.2000.111411.

Management of tongue cancer in the patient who is systemically immunosuppressed: 
a preliminary report.

Meng S(1), Jiamei L.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Medical University, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: Renal transplantation is being improved, and life expectancy for 
patients with transplanted kidneys is being prolonged, but the incidence of 
malignant tumors in other body organs or tissues is increasing progressively. We 
investigated effective clinical plans for treating lingual cancer in persons who 
are long-term renal transplant recipients.
STUDY DESIGN: The group included 3 cases of lingual cancer after renal 
transplantation. All were men. The mean age was 47.5 years (range, 40 to 55). 
The lingual cancer occurred a mean of 9 years after renal transplantation. The 
lesions of two patients were in the left lingual margins; the other patient had 
multiple bilateral lesions. All diagnoses were confirmed microscopically to be 
squamous cell carcinomas stage I to II.
RESULTS: The doses of immunosuppressive agents were decreased, and two patients 
accepted surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. The third patient died 1 year 
after the cancer was diagnosed because of metastases. The other 2 patients had 
regular follow-up for 2 to 3 years and did not have either local recurrence or 
metastasis.
CONCLUSION: Patients who have lingual cancer develop after renal transplantation 
have received long-term immunosuppressive therapy. We suggest the following 
clinical protocol: (1) Besides regular evaluation after renal transplantation, 
physical examination and biopsy of suspicious oral lesions are necessary because 
of the possibility of postrenal malignancy. (2) Surgery, along with chemotherapy 
and radiotherapy, is the main treatment of lingual cancer after renal 
transplantation. (3) The lingual tumor should be comprehensively treated despite 
the poor immune state of the body, or tumor recurrence can accelerate and 
metastases can occur. (4) Treating cancer thoroughly and maintaining the 
function of the transplanted kidney can decrease the patient's immune status. We 
should continue to observe and to report the patients' protocol, even if the 
patients' clinical follow-up periods are limited.

DOI: 10.1067/moe.2000.111411
PMID: 11113812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Spinal Cord. 2000 Nov;38(11):649-57. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3101070.

Preserving transfer independence among individuals with spinal cord injury.

Nyland J(1), Quigley P, Huang C, Lloyd J, Harrow J, Nelson A.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Therapy, University of South Florida, Tampa 33612-4766, 
USA.

STUDY DESIGN: Literature review.
OBJECTIVES: Upper extremity (UE) joint degeneration, particularly at the 
shoulder, detrimentally influences functional independence, quality of life, 
cardiovascular disease risk, and life expectancy of individuals following spinal 
cord injury (SCI). This review (1) describes UE use for transfers among 
individuals with SCI; (2) describes contributing factors associated with UE 
joint degeneration and loss of transfer independence; (3) summarizes and 
identifies gaps in existing research; and (4) provides suggestions for future 
research.
RESULTS: Investigations of wheelchair transfer related UE joint and function 
preservation among individuals with SCI should consider factors including age 
and length of time from SCI onset, interface between subject-wheelchair, pain, 
shoulder joint range of motion (ROM) and muscle strength deficiencies or 
imbalances, exercise capacity and tolerance for the physical strain of 
activities of daily living (ADL), body mass and composition, previous UE injury 
or disease history, and transfer techniques. Existing studies of transfers among 
individuals with SCI have relied on small groups of either asymptomatic or 
non-impaired subjects, with minimal integration of kinematic, kinetic and 
electromyographic data. Descriptions of UE joint ROM, forces, and moments 
produced during transfers are lacking.
CONCLUSIONS: Biomechanical measurement and computer modeling have provided 
increasingly accurate tools for acquiring the data needed to guide intervention 
planning to prevent UE joint degeneration and preserve function among 
individuals with SCI. The identification of stressful sub-components during 
transfers will enable intervening clinicians and engineers who design and modify 
assistive and adaptive devices to better serve individuals with SCI.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3101070
PMID: 11114770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Acta Physiol Scand. 2000 Oct;170(2):119-26. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-201x.2000.00765.x.

Intramuscular pressure and electromyographic responses of the vastus lateralis 
muscle during repeated maximal isokinetic knee extensions.

Crenshaw AG(1), Gerdle B, Heiden M, Karlsson S, FridÃ©n J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Musculoskeletal Research, National Institute for Working Life, 
UmeÃ¥, Sweden.

The purpose of the study was to investigate changes in intramuscular pressure 
(IMP) (maximal during contraction - peak IMP, and between contraction, 
relaxation IMP - RxIMP) and surface electromyographic activity (EMG) parameters 
[mean frequency of the power spectrum (fmean), and signal amplitude, root mean 
square (RMS)] throughout 100 repetitive isokinetic contractions for six healthy 
subjects. Parameters were recorded simultaneously from the vastus lateralis 
muscle during maximal knee extension. Regression analyses revealed significant 
decreases for peak IMP and fmean, and an increase in RxIMP; RMS, however, did 
not change. All parameters demonstrated trends of change throughout the 
contractions that were non-linear. Details and inter relations for RxIMP and 
fmean were highlighted to express intramuscular fluid accumulation and fatigue 
development, respectively. Individual regression analyses for RxIMP revealed 
significant positive correlations for all subjects (range of r=0.62 to 0.89). At 
group level, mean RxIMP increased from 6.0 mmHg for the 1st contraction to 14.0 
mmHg for the 100th contraction. For fmean, individual regressions were 
significantly negative for all subjects (r=-0.75 to -0.89). Fmean decreased from 
89.2 Hz for the 1st contraction to 63.3 Hz for the 100th contraction. When the 
data were delineated between the fatigue (contractions 1-40) and endurance 
phases (41-100), the slopes of increase for RxIMP, and of decrease for fmean 
were significantly greater during the fatigue phase. RxIMP throughout the 100 
contractions correlated negatively with fmean for each subject (r=-0.54 to 
-0.78); when delineated, the correlation between parameters was significantly 
greater for the fatigue as compared with the endurance phase. Relaxation IMP 
trends are mainly attributed to intramuscular water accumulations during 
repetitive contractions. In spite of consistent correlations between RxIMP and 
fmean a causal association could not be established. It may be suggested that a 
common factor occurring during the fatiguing process governs changes in RxIMP 
and fmean.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-201x.2000.00765.x
PMID: 11114949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Arch Dermatol. 2000 Dec;136(12):1452-8. doi: 10.1001/archderm.136.12.1452.

Clinical features and contribution of virological findings to the management of 
Kaposi sarcoma in organ-allograft recipients.

Barete S(1), Calvez V, Mouquet C, Barrou B, Kreis H, Dantal J, Dorent R, Durand 
F, Dimitrov Y, Dupin N, Marcelin AG, Piette JC, Bitker MO, FrancÃ¨s C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Virologie CERVI, Groupe Hospitalier PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re, 83, 
Boulevard de l'HÃ´pital 75651, Paris, Cedex 13, France. 
stephane.barete@psl.ap-hop-paris.fr

OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical features of Kaposi sarcoma (KS) in 
organ-allograft recipients and to determine the contribution of human 
herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) investigations to the management of KS.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: We examined 20 organ-allograft recipients with KS 
at PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re Hospital, Paris, France, between November 1, 1991, and May 
31, 1999.
METHODS: We detected HHV-8 antibodies using an indirect immunofluorescence assay 
and the HHV-8 DNA genome using nonnested polymerase chain reaction with 
KS-associated herpesvirus 330(233) primers in peripheral blood mononuclear cells 
collected at transplantation and KS diagnosis. We detected the HHV-8 genome in 
involved and uninvolved tissue specimens and in 10 patients' serum samples 
collected 1 month before the first manifestation of KS. We determined the HHV-8 
double-strand DNA sequence and subtypes of open reading frame 26.
INTERVENTION: Management of KS consisted of progressively tapering 
immunosuppressive therapy regardless of KS dissemination. Associated infections 
were treated when possible. Chemotherapy was prescribed only when a functional 
disability persisted, and polychemotherapy was prescribed for life-threatening 
disease.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Percentage of recipients with KS remission and 
stabilization, organ-graft survival, and death rates.
RESULTS: Remission of KS was obtained in 9 (45%) of the 20 patients 
independently of disease dissemination, with a mean follow-up of 35 months. The 
kidney graft survived in 12 (67%) of the 18 patients. Only 1 patient (5%) died 
of KS progression. All allograft recipients had anti-HHV-8 antibodies before 
transplantation. We detected HHV-8 DNA in all involved tissue samples but not in 
serum samples 1 month before KS onset. The most prevalent subtype was HHV-8 C (9 
[53%] of 17 patients) and was not associated with extradermatological extension 
of KS compared with subtypes A and B'.
CONCLUSIONS: Virological investigations of HHV-8 contribute poorly to KS 
management. Prospective studies are needed to determine the role of HHV-8 
virological investigations and to identify associated cofactors so as to prevent 
KS in organ-allograft recipients.

DOI: 10.1001/archderm.136.12.1452
PMID: 11115155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Chest. 2000 Dec;118(6):1603-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.118.6.1603.

Lung cancer in women: sex-associated differences in survival of patients 
undergoing resection for lung cancer.

Minami H(1), Yoshimura M, Miyamoto Y, Matsuoka H, Tsubota N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Hyogo Medical Center for Adults, Akashi City, 
Hyogo, Japan.

Comment in
    Chest. 2001 Jul;120(1):324.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to analyze various characteristics 
and survival in female patients treated surgically for lung cancer.
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical study.
PATIENTS: From 1,242 consecutive cases of primary non-small cell lung cancer 
treated with pulmonary resection between June 1984 and December 1998, 337 female 
patients (27.1%) were chosen.
RESULTS: Female patients had the following characteristics: a significantly 
younger age at onset (62.5 +/- 0.56 years vs 64.1 +/- 0.31 years for men), a 
higher frequency of adenocarcinoma (86.0% vs 48.3% for men), and smaller tumors 
(32.7 mm vs 38.3 mm in diameter for men). Peripheral tumors were significantly 
more common in women than men (71.8% vs 50.6%, respectively). Among 686 patients 
with a history of smoking, the women smoked significantly less often (12.8% vs 
91.4% for men). Complete resection was achieved significantly less often in 
women (79.6% vs 85.2% for men); however, women having complete resection 
survived significantly longer than their male counterparts. Women with a 
postoperative negative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) had a significantly better 
prognosis than men; however, women with a postoperative positive CEA did not. 
Women > or = 60 years old survived significantly longer than their male 
counterparts, while women < 60 years old did not.
CONCLUSIONS: Once the tumor was resected completely, women survived longer, 
partly due to the influence of life expectancy. However, the incidence of 
malignant effusion was higher and the rate of complete resection was lower in 
women.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.118.6.1603
PMID: 11115446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):27-31.

Prognostic results of cisplatin IP and carboplatin IV with G-CSF in patients 
with ovarian cancer.

Adachi S(1), Itani Y, Ito K, Noda T, Shintani M, Saito K, Furukawa N, Tomii Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hyogo College of Medicine, Hyogo 
663, Japan. adachi@hyo-med.ac.jp

We performed a dose-escalation study of carboplatin combined with a fixed dose 
of intraperitoneal cisplatin and G-CSF in patients with epithelial ovarian 
cancer, and analyzed the progression-free and overall survival. Six of the 
patients who entered the study with stage IC and II disease are still alive with 
no evidence of disease. The five-year survival rate was 61% for the 18 patients 
with stage III and IV disease; progression-free survival over 5 years was 32%. 
Our results show this to be an effective treatment regimen for epithelial 
ovarian cancer. Prognosis is good with this combined carboplatin/cisplatin/G-CSF 
therapy, especially for those patients with microscopic or no residual disease.

PMID: 11115564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):57-61.

Skin metastases in lung cancer: analysis of a 10-year experience.

Ambrogi V(1), Nofroni I, Tonini G, Mineo TC.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery, Tor Vergata University, 00144 Rome, Italy. 
ambrogi@med.uniroma2.it

We reviewed our 10-year experience in skin metastases from lung cancer. We 
identified a total of 26 patients with 49 resected skin metastases. Skin 
metastases were synchronous in 6 patients, 3 of whom underwent primary 
simultaneous resection, and solitary in 6 (6/26=23.07%). Negative prognostic 
factors were primary non-resectability (p=0.001), small cell lung cancer 
(p=0.032), simultaneous discovery of other cutaneous (p=0.048) or extracutaneous 
(p=0.0005, Wald test p<0.002, Odds ratio =14.37) metastases. Skin metastasis 
represented the unique distant localization in almost one quarter of our cases 
that represent the best-survivor category: in these patients skin metastasectomy 
is justified.

PMID: 11115569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):63-5.

Lung cancer patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Kurishima K(1), Satoh H, Ishikawa H, Yamashita YT, Homma T, Ohtsuka M, Sekizawa 
K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Respiratory Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University 
of Tsukuba, Tsukuba-city, Ibaraki, Japan.

The aim of this study is to evaluate characteristics in lung cancer patients 
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Among 966 lung cancer 
patients admitted to our division over a period of 24 years, 73 patients were 
diagnosed as having COPD. There were 68 (93.2%) men and 5 women; of the tumors 
43 (58.9%) were squamous cell carcinomas. Although 41 (56.2%) patients had stage 
IA-IIIA, only 11 (15.1%) had surgery. Coexistence of COPD was proved to be a 
prognostic factor (p=0.0451). Adequate palliative care to provide quality 
survival would be the primary goal of therapy for lung cancer patients with 
COPD.

PMID: 11115570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):93-7. doi: 10.3892/or.8.1.93.

Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor in keratinizing-type squamous 
cell uterine cervical cancer.

Matsumoto Y(1), Ishiko O, Deguchi M, Ogita S, Haba T, Wakasa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka City University Medical 
School, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether intratumor expression of 
platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (PD-ECGF) is a prognostic 
factor. We examined specimens from 61 cases of carcinoma of uterine cervix 
(Ca-Cx). Specimens were stained with periodic acid-Schiff preparation with 
diastase (d-PAS) and alcian blue (pH 2.5) to identify the presence of 
intracellular mucin. PD-ECGF expression and microvessel count (MVC) were 
assessed by immunohistochemical staining. Twenty specimens stained positive for 
mucin. MVC correlated with clinical stage (p<0.01). There was a correlation 
between PD-ECGF expression and survival time (p<0.05), but no correlation was 
seen between mucin staining positivity, MVC, and PD-ECGF expression and survival 
time by the Cox proportional hazard model. Intratumor PD-ECGF expression was not 
a prognostic factor in keratinizing-type squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine 
cervix.

DOI: 10.3892/or.8.1.93
PMID: 11115576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):119-25. doi: 10.3892/or.8.1.119.

Radiotherapy combined with transcatheter arterial infusion of cisplatin versus 
oral fluoropyrimidine anticancer agent for locally advanced carcinoma of the 
uterine cervix: a prospective follow-up study.

Nagai N(1), Oshita T, Murakami J, Shigemasa K, Hirokawa Y, Ohama K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hiroshima University Faculty of 
Medicine, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551, Japan. 
nagainob@mcai.med.hiroshima-u.ac.jp

We randomized patients with locally advanced cervical cancer to receive 
radiotherapy combined with transcatheter arterial infusion (TAI) of cisplatin or 
oral fluoropyrimidine anticancer agents, and compared the prognosis by a 
prospective follow-up study. Sixty patients were studied who completed their 
planned radiation therapy with chemotherapy at the Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology of Hiroshima University Hospital between January 1991 and December 
1998. Patients were randomly assigned to receive (A) radiotherapy with TAI of 
120 mg/body cisplatin twice a month at the interval of 4 weeks or (B) 
radiotherapy with 200 mg/day oral 5-FU or UFT every day. In both groups, 
radiotherapy is routinely 50 Gy of external beam irradiation to the whole pelvis 
and 18-20 Gy (point A dose) of intracavitary irradiation using a remote after 
loading system (RALS). Serious adverse reactions interfering with treatment did 
not appear in either group. The effective histologic response was 28/32 (87.5%) 
in group A and 25/28 (89.3%) in group B. The median follow-up period were 28.3 
months and 25.4 months in group A and B, respectively. There was no significant 
difference in the overall survival and disease-free survival rates for all 
patients, clinical stage III and squamous cell carcinoma. We could not conclude 
that radiotherapy with TAI of cisplatin achieved superior therapeutic efficacy 
in locally advanced cervical cancer. To improve the therapeutic effects, it is 
important to establish a new cisplatin-containing chemoradiotherapy regimen.

DOI: 10.3892/or.8.1.119
PMID: 11115582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):141-4. doi: 10.3892/or.8.1.141.

Laryngeal carcinoma--epidemiological and clinical features: experience of the 
Rabin Medical Center in Israel.

Brenner B(1), Marshak G, Rakowsky E, Shvero J, Sulkes A, Gutman H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oncology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tiqva, Israel.

We sought to compare the epidemiological and clinical features of patients with 
carcinoma of the larynx treated at a major Israeli tertiary facility with other 
series in the literature. The charts of 361 consecutive patients from 1974 to 
1995 were reviewed. Our population was distinguished from other series by a low 
rate of alcohol abuse (12%), high incidence of second malignancies in sites 
other than the upper aerodigestive tract (53%) and high rate of early-stage 
tumors (82%). Overall 5-year survival and local control rates were 88% and 85%, 
respectively. Our study suggests that the low alcohol consumption and high 
proportion of early-stage tumors at diagnosis, characteristic of the Israeli 
population of patients with laryngeal carcinoma, may explain, in part, the 
relatively high survival and local control rates.

DOI: 10.3892/or.8.1.141
PMID: 11115586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):167-71. doi: 10.3892/or.8.1.167.

Cisplatin, mitomycin-C, 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin combination chemotherapy 
(l-FCM) in locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric carcinoma: a 
phase-II study.

Bobbio-Pallavicini E(1), Tacconi F, Porta C, Brambilla G, Mainardi E, Bianchessi 
C, Moroni M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Emato-Oncologia, Ospedale Maggiore di Crema, Italy.

Despite relevant progress, the impact of chemotherapy on advanced gastric cancer 
patients' survival is still unsatisfactory. Thus, the key objective of our 
efforts should be palliation of the symptoms and the maintenance of an adequate 
quality of life. In this phase-II study, we evaluated toxicity and efficacy of 
the combination of cisplatin, fluorofolates and mitomycin C. Thirty-one advanced 
gastric cancer patients received cisplatin (15 mg/m2) and 5-fluorouracil (350 
mg/m2), both for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks; 5-fluorouracil infusion was 
preceded by a rapid i.v. injection of 100 mg/m2 leucovorin, while mitomycin-C 
(10 mg/m2) was administered on day 1 of odd cycles. Cycles were repeated every 4 
weeks until disease progression. We recorded 16 objective responses (51.6%, 95% 
confidence interval: 42.63-60.57); furthermore, such a response rate was coupled 
with a moderate degree of toxicity and an extremely good tolerance. In 
particular, alopecia, a frequent and distressing side-effect in patients, 
especially women, in our series occurred only in two patients. This treatment 
appears to be an active and tolerable therapeutic option for patients with 
advanced gastric carcinoma.

DOI: 10.3892/or.8.1.167
PMID: 11115592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):193-6.

Expression of nm23-H1 in transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract.

Cheng HL(1), Tong YC, Tzai TS, Weng CL, Ho CL, Yang WH, Lin JS, Chow NH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical College, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan, Taiwan 704, R.O.C.

Transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract is an uncommon neoplasm. 
Relatively little information is available regarding the clinical relevance of 
molecular markers. This study was performed to examine the importance of nm23-H1 
gene expression (NM23-H1) in this type of tumors. Immunohistochemical expression 
of NM23-H1 was analyzed in 90 cases of upper urinary tract cancer, and was 
compared for its prognostic significance with conventional biological 
indicators. High expression of NM23-H1 was found in 7 cases (8%), intermediate 
expression in 32 cases (36%), and low expression in 51 cases (57%). Reduced 
NM23-H1 (defined as intermediate or low level of expression) was associated with 
a higher histological grading (p=0.002), invasive tumor growth (p=0. 002), or an 
increased proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling index (p=0.004). NM23-H1 
tended to inversely relate to later recurrence or long-term survival (p=0.06), 
but, only tumor staging was found to be significant in predicting clinical 
outcome (p=0.002). nm23-H1 appears to function as a tumor suppressor for upper 
urinary tract cancer, however, evaluation of NM23-H1 provides limited prognostic 
information.

PMID: 11115597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Oncol Rep. 2001 Jan-Feb;8(1):201-6. doi: 10.3892/or.8.1.201.

The prognostic value of S-phase fraction in preoperative radiotherapy of rectal 
cancer.

Lammering G(1), Taher MM, Borchard F, Gruenagel HH, Porschen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298-0058, USA. glammering@vcu.org

The aim of this study was to analyze the flow cytometric S-phase fraction (SPF) 
in rectal tumors before and after preoperative radiotherapy (15x2 Gy) and to 
compare the findings to the clinical outcome. Archival specimens from 84 cases, 
treated from 1980 to 1988 with S-phase data and complete follow-up were 
reviewed. There was no significant correlation between SPF and 
clinicopathological factors. The median SPF for the 26 diploid tumors before 
irradiation was 6.6%+/-3.1, compared to a significantly higher median for the 58 
preirradiated aneuploid tumors (20.3%+/-6.1; p<0.0001). With a median follow-up 
of 6 years, there was a significant difference in the number of recurrences for 
aneuploid tumors with a pretreatment SPF < and >20.3 (51.7% vs. 20.7%; p=0.029), 
which also led to a significant difference in recurrence-free survival (p=0.05). 
For diploid tumors, a reduction in the percentage of cells in S-phase after 
radiation resulted in a borderline significant lower number of recurrences 
(p=0.06). It is concluded that pretreatment S-phase measurements may be of 
predictive value especially for aneuploid tumors. An alteration in SPF after 
radiotherapy may also be helpful in predicting outcome and planning therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/or.8.1.201
PMID: 11115599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Rev Prat. 2000 Oct 1;50(15):1642-5.

[Epidemiology and etiology of acquired heart valve diseases in adults].

[Article in French]

Lucas G(1), Tribouilloy C.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de cardiologie HÃ´pital Sud 80054 Amiens. CardioB@Burotec.fr

Acquired valvular heart disease remains common. Their causes have changed during 
the past 30 years with the increase in life expectancy and with the decrease in 
the incidence of rheumatic fever. Calcific aortic stenosis is currently the 
predominant cause, followed by left heart valvular regurgitations due to 
degenerative disease and infective endocarditis. Post-radiation valvular disease 
might become more frequent in the future. More recently, left heart valvular 
diseases were observed in the United States in patients treated by anorexigen 
treatment.

PMID: 11116603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Rev Prat. 2000 Oct 1;50(15):1653-8.

[Aortic stenosis in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Iung B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie A Groupe hospitalier Bichat-Claude-Bernard 75877 
Paris. bernard.iung@bch.ap-hop-paris.fr

Aortic stenosis is observed with an increasing frequency in the elderly. Main 
features in the elderly are the frequency of advanced stage of the heart 
disease, and of associated diseases, either cardiac, in particular coronary 
lesions, or extracardiac. This can explain that perioperative morbidity and 
mortality are higher than in younger patients. However, after the operative 
period, long-term prognosis is good. Life expectancy becomes similar to a 
general population and functional results are excellent. In case of symptomatic 
aortic stenosis in the elderly, the decision to operate should take into account 
an evaluation of the individual risk to benefit ratio, and avoid to differ the 
decision until an advanced stage of the disease.

PMID: 11116605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Rev Prat. 2000 Oct 1;50(15):1672-8.

[Mitral valve insufficiency and surgical repair].

[Article in French]

Avierinos JF(1), Enriquez Sarano M.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie HÃ´pital de La Timone 13385 Marseille. 
jfavierinos@mail.com

Management of mitral regurgitation have benefited over the last 10 years from 
the better understanding of its natural history and from the advent of new 
echocardiographic quantitative methods. The dismal prognosis displayed by 
patients with flail leaflet and severe mitral regurgitation medically treated in 
one hand and the demonstration of the dramatic consequences of impaired 
pre-operative left ventricular function in the other, have been a strong 
incentive for early surgical correction of the disease. In the same time, mitral 
valve repair developed because of the improvement in the surgical techniques, of 
changes in aetiology and because of the widespread use of intra-operative 
transoesophageal echocardiography. Mitral repair has been shown to be an 
independent and beneficial predictor of overall survival, operative mortality 
and late survival and consequently became the support of early surgical 
strategies. But it is not the only factor to predict mortality and morbidity, 
and one must not forget the decisive and independent part played by age, 
preoperative symptoms and above all pre-operative left ventricular function. 
Therefore, mitral valve repair must not be considered as a pretext to postpone 
intervention but should be an other reason to intervene earlier.

PMID: 11116608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Lakartidningen. 2000 Nov 8;97(45):5120-5.

[Vaccination of the elderly against pneumococcal disease is cost-efficient. Mass 
vaccination of all aged 65 and over is recommended].

[Article in Swedish]

Ortqvist A(1), JÃ¶nsson B, Baltussen R, Ament A.

Author information:
(1)Infektionskliniken, Karolinska sjukhuset, Stockholm. ake.ortqvist@ks.se

Comment in
    Lakartidningen. 2000 Dec 13;97(50):5958.

The pneumococcal vaccine has been shown to be about 70 percent efficacious in 
preventing invasive pneumococcal disease in elderly persons. In a European 
multicenter study, pneumococcal vaccination was moderately cost-effective in 
preventing hospital admission due to invasive pneumococcal disease in persons 65 
years of age or above. In Sweden the cost was approximately 300,000 SEK per 
quality adjusted life years (QALY) gained, but only about 60,000 SEK per QALY in 
a two-way sensitivity analysis making reasonable assumptions regarding the 
incidence and mortality of invasive pneumococcal disease in this age group. On 
the basis of these findings, pneumococcal vaccination should be recommended for 
all persons 65 years of age or older.

PMID: 11116891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nephrologie. 2000;21(6):273-4.

[Epidemiology of aging].

[Article in French]

Rainfray M.

PMID: 11117105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Am J Epidemiol. 2000 Dec 1;152(11):1003-8. doi: 10.1093/aje/152.11.1003.

Genetic epidemiologic studies on age-specified traits. NIA Aging and Genetic 
Epidemiology Working Group.

[No authors listed]

This commentary calls attention to the value of combining genetic and 
epidemiologic methods in studies to understand the determinants of two crucial 
aspects of aging: ages at which certain outcomes (e.g., disease, mortality) 
occur and rates of change with age of individual's characteristics (e.g., 
physiologic functions, disease risk factors). Inclusion of age in the 
specification of traits in genetic epidemiologic studies could lead to improved 
strategies to increase healthy life expectancy and evaluate individuals' risk 
for age-related morbidity. Special issues that make genetic epidemiologic 
approaches important for studies of age-specified phenomena as well as 
opportunities and challenges for such studies are discussed, including study 
designs, sampling frames, databases, analytic tools, and related methodological 
issues. This commentary is based on a report prepared by the Aging and Genetic 
Epidemiology Working Group, convened by the National Institute on Aging to 
review opportunities for research on the genetic epidemiology of aging-related 
outcomes. The report, which contains more extensive discussion, literature 
review, and references, is available on the World Wide Web at 
http://www.nih.gov/nia/conferences/GeneticReport111199.htm.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/152.11.1003
PMID: 11117608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2000 Dec;58(12):1372-9; discussion 1379-80. doi: 
10.1053/joms.2000.18269.

Survival of hydroxyapatite-coated implants: a meta-analytic review.

Lee JJ(1), Rouhfar L, Beirne OR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Washington, 
School of Dentistry, Seattle 98195-7134, USA.

PURPOSE: Some reports show a benefit of coating dental implants with 
hydroxyapatite (HA), and others assert that resorption of the HA coating 
compromises long-term implant survival. This study examined this controversy by 
systematically reviewing all the current literature that reports the outcomes of 
HA-coated implants in human clinical trials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic Medline computer search of the English 
literature yielded 45 human clinical trials that reported on the outcome of 
HA-coated implants. Eleven studies that met specific inclusion criteria were 
selected for detailed analysis. The studies were divided into 2 groups. One 
group of 5 studies reported implant survival using overall percentage, and 
another group of 6 studies reported implant survival using life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The overall percentage survival rates ranged from 93.2% to 98.5%, with 
4 to 8 years of follow-up. The cumulative survival rates for studies that used 
life-table analysis ranged from 79.2% to 98.5%, with 5 to 8 years of follow-up. 
The yearly interval survival rates reported for the studies using life-tables 
were variable but remained above 90% and did not show a progressive or 
precipitous decrease with increasing years of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The survival rates reported for HA-coated implants were similar to 
the survival rates reported for uncoated titanium implants. If resorption of the 
HA coating causes late failure of implants, the yearly interval survival rates 
should have decreased with increased years of follow-up. This decrease was not 
observed in the longitudinal human clinical trials that met the selection 
criteria for this study. Detailed analysis of these clinical trials did not show 
that HA-coating compromises the long-term survival of dental implants.

DOI: 10.1053/joms.2000.18269
PMID: 11117685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2000 Nov 30;408(6812):513-4. doi: 10.1038/35046270.

Bernoulli was ahead of modern epidemiology.

Dietz K, Heesterbeek JA.

DOI: 10.1038/35046270
PMID: 11117719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Occup Environ Med. 2001 Jan;58(1):24-30. doi: 10.1136/oem.58.1.24.

Mortality in chemical workers potentially exposed to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic 
acid (2,4-D) 1945-94: an update.

Burns CJ(1), Beard KK, Cartmill JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, The Dow Chemical Company, 1803 Building, Midland, 
MI 48674, USA. cburns@dow.com

Comment in
    Occup Environ Med. 2001 Sep;58(9):609-10.

OBJECTIVE: To update and add to a previously identified cohort of employees 
potentially exposed to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The 
putative association between 2,4-D and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has been debated 
for more than a decade.
METHODS: Cohort members were male employees of The Dow Chemical Company who 
manufactured or formulated 2,4-D any time from 1945 to the end of 1994. Their 
mortality experience was compared with national rates and with more than 40 000 
other company employees who worked at the same location.
RESULTS: 330 Deaths were observed among 1517 people compared with 365 expected 
(standardised mortality ratio (SMR)=0.90, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.81 
to 1.01). There were no significantly increased SMRs for any of the causes of 
death analyzed. When compared with the United States rates, the SMR for 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) was 1.00 (95% CI 0.21 to 2.92). The internal 
comparison with other Dow employees showed a non-significant relative risk of 
2.63, (95% CI 0.85 to 8.33). Death was attributed to amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS) for three cohort members. Compared with the other company 
employees, the relative risk was 3.45 (95% CI 1.10 to 11.11). The cases were 
employed in the manufacture or formulation of 2,4-D at different periods 
(1947-9, 1950-1, and 1968-86), and for varying durations of time (1.3, 1.8, and 
12.5 years).
CONCLUSION: There was no evidence of a causal association between exposure to 
2,4-D and mortality due to all causes and total malignant neoplasms. No 
significant risk due to NHL was found. Although not an initial hypothesis, an 
increased relative risk of ALS was noted. This finding is unsupported by other 
animal and human studies.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.58.1.24
PMCID: PMC1740039
PMID: 11119631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Radiat Res. 2001 Jan;155(1 Pt 2):188-193. doi: 
10.1667/0033-7587(2001)155[0188:tatifc]2.0.co;2.

Telomeres and telomerase: implications for cancer and aging.

Shay JW(1), Wright WE.

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Department of Cell 
Biology, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-9039, USA.

Maintenance of telomere stability is required for cells to escape from 
replicative senescence and proliferate indefinitely. Telomere length is 
maintained by a balance between processes that lengthen telomeres (telomerase) 
and processes that shorten telomeres (the end-replication problem). Telomerase 
is a cellular ribonucleoprotein reverse transcriptase which stabilizes telomere 
length by adding hexameric (TTAGGG) repeats to the telomeric ends of the 
chromosomes, thus compensating for the continued erosion of telomeres. 
Introduction of the telomerase catalytic protein component into normal 
telomerase-negative human cells results in restoration of telomerase activity 
and extension of cellular life span. Human cells with introduced telomerase 
maintain a normal chromosome complement and continue to grow in a normal manner. 
Telomerase-induced manipulations of telomere length may thus be important not 
only for cell and tissue engineering but also for dissecting the molecular 
mechanisms underlying inherited genetic diseases, as well as defining the 
genetic pathways leading to cancer. Because almost all human tumors express 
telomerase activity, inhibition of telomerase may result in gradual erosion of 
telomeres and eventual cessation of cell proliferation or induction of 
apoptosis. Thus telomerase may also be a promising target for cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1667/0033-7587(2001)155[0188:tatifc]2.0.co;2
PMID: 11121233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Free Radic Biol Med. 2000 Dec;29(11):1143-50. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(00)00423-8.

Prevention of flight activity prolongs the life span of the housefly, Musca 
domestica, and attenuates the age-associated oxidative damamge to specific 
mitochondrial proteins.

Yan LJ(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, 
USA.

The purpose of this study was to explore the mechanisms by which oxidative 
stress affects the aging process. The hypothesis that the rate of accumulation 
of oxidative damage to specific mitochondrial proteins is linked to the life 
expectancy of animals was tested in the housefly. The rate of oxygen consumption 
and life expectancy of the flies were experimentally altered by confining the 
flies in small jars, where they were unable to fly. Prevention of flight 
activity decreased the rate of oxygen utilization of flies and almost tripled 
their life span as compared to those permitted to fly. Rate of mitochondrial 
H(2)O(2) generation at various ages was lower in the low activity flies than in 
the high activity flies. Oxidative damage to mitochondrial proteins, adenine 
nucelotide translocase, and aconitase, detected as carbonyl modifications, was 
attenuated; and the loss in their functional activity occurring with age was 
retarded in the long-lived low activity flies as compared to the short-lived 
high activity flies. The two proteins were previously identified to be the only 
mitochondrial proteins exhibiting age-related increases in carbonylation. 
Results support the hypothesis that accrual of oxidative damage to specific 
protein targets and the consequent loss of their function may constitute a 
mechanism by which oxidative stress controls the aging process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(00)00423-8
PMID: 11121722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 1999 Jul;1(1):9-15. doi: 10.1007/s11883-999-0044-4.

Prevention of cardiovascular events in elderly hypercholesterolemic patients.

Bruckert E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Cardiovascular Disease Prevention, HÃ´pital 
PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re, Paris, France.

The management of hyperlipidemia in the elderly patient is a major problem, 
given the frequency of dyslipidemias and cardiovascular disorders in this age 
group. Therapy must take current uncertainties into account and, in the absence 
of therapeutic studies carried out in the elderly, is typically based upon a 
case-by-case approach. Raised cholesterol levels remain a significant risk 
factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in the elderly. Although the relative 
risk of CHD tends to diminish with increasing age, this reduction is accompanied 
by an increase in absolute risk (ie, the number of events) as the frequency of 
the illness increases markedly with age. The results of major outcome studies 
with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), when 
analyzed according to patient age, indicate that the benefits of these agents 
are not merely confined to younger individuals. However, the elderly form a 
unique patient population--the proportion of women is greater and the profile of 
cardiovascular illnesses is characterized, among others, by a greater incidence 
of cerebrovascular accidents. Problems relating to poor tolerability and 
comorbidity (which may give rise to drug-drug interactions) also occur more 
frequently in this age group. Moreover, the potential widespread treatment of 
hyperlipidemia in the elderly has profound economic implications. Under these 
circumstances, the clinical practice recommendations depend upon a reasonable 
extrapolation of epidemiologic and therapeutic data obtained from middle-aged 
men. At present, treatment is therefore aimed at patients with the most severe 
forms of hyperlipidemia, generally in the secondary prevention setting, taking 
into account the patient's life expectancy. The results of ongoing studies will 
determine the benefits of lipid-lowering therapy for primary prevention of CHD 
in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-999-0044-4
PMID: 11122686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 1999 Dec;1(2):166-71. doi: 10.1007/s11920-999-0027-8.

The cost-effectiveness of substance abuse treatment.

Barnett PG(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Resource Center and Center for Health Care Evaluation, VA 
Palo Alto Health Care System, 795 Willow Road (152 MPD), Menlo Park, CA 94025, 
USA.

Researchers have estimated the cost of treating substance abuse and its effects 
on medical care and social service expenses, but have rarely used the methods 
developed to evaluate medical care interventions. When outcomes are expressed as 
quality-adjusted life years, substance abuse treatment may be compared with 
other types of health care. This method has found smoking cessation and 
methadone maintenance to be highly cost-effective health care programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-999-0027-8
PMID: 11122920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Appl Microbiol. 2000 Dec;89(6):960-8. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2672.2000.01199.x.

Isolation of a bacteriocin-producing Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis and 
application to control Listeria monocytogenes in Moroccan jben.

Benkerroum N(1), Oubel H, Zahar M, Dlia S, Filali-Maltouf A.

