Author information:
(1)Institut Agronomique et Vétérinaire Hassan II, Département de Microbiologie 
Alimentaire et Biotechnologie, Rabat, Morocco.

AIM: Use of a bacteriocin-producing lactococcal strain to control Listeria 
monocytogenes in jben.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Lactococcus lactis strain isolated from lben was shown, 
by the spot technique, to produce a bacteriocin different from nisin. Inhibitory 
activity of the bacteriocin-producing strain against Listeria monocytogenes was 
investigated in jben, made from cow's milk fermented with the producer organism 
and contaminated with 104 or 107 cfu ml-1. Listeria counts were monitored during 
manufacture, and during conservation at room and at refrigeration temperatures. 
Results showed that the pathogen was reduced by 2.7 logarithmic units after 30 h 
of jben processing when the initial inoculum of 107 cfu ml(-1) was used. For the 
initial inoculum of 104 cfu ml(-1), the bacterium was completely eliminated at 
24 h. Furthermore, the use of the bacteriocin-producing starter culture extended 
the shelf-life of jben by 5 days.
CONCLUSIONS: In situ production of the lactococcal bacteriocin is an efficient 
biological means of controlling L. monocytogenes in jben and of allowing 
shelf-life extension.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The proposed technology will essentially 
benefit minimally processed dairy products and those made with raw milk.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2672.2000.01199.x
PMID: 11123469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Respiration. 2000;67(6):595-607. doi: 10.1159/000056287.

Treatment of cystic fibrosis in the adult.

Hodson ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cystic Fibrosis, Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust, London, 
UK. s.hockley@ic.ac.uk

There has been a dramatic increase in the life expectancy of patients with 
cystic fibrosis (CF) over the last 20 years. CF used to be fatal in childhood 
but now, over a third of the patients are adults. The reasons for improved 
survival are multi-factorial. The disease affects most systems of the body 
although the majority of morbidity and mortality is due to lung disease. As in 
any life-threatening disease, in addition to medical issues, there are many 
psychosocial and spiritual issues, which need attention. Transition from 
paediatric to adult care needs to be handled very sensitively. Arranging a 
balanced and reliable system of care - out-patient, in-patient and home care - 
is essential to ensure the patient's survival and quality of life is as good as 
possible.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000056287
PMID: 11124641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2000;74(1):37-51. doi: 10.1159/000056462.

Gamma knife radiosurgery for the treatment of brain metastases.

Sansur CA(1), Chin LS, Ames JW, Banegura AT, Aggarwal S, Ballesteros M, Amin P, 
Simard JM, Eisenberg H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21201-1595, USA.

One hundred and ninety-three patients with brain metastases from various primary 
sites received Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKR) from July 1992 to August 1997 and 
were reviewed to evaluate their clinical outcome. Survival follow-up was 
available on 173 patients. Whole-brain radiation therapy was also administered 
to 148 of these patients. The median survival was 13.1 months from initial 
detection of brain metastases, and 7.5 months from GKR. Univariate and 
multivariate analyses were performed to determine prognostic factors that 
influenced survival following GKR. Enhanced survival is observed in patients 
with radiosensitive tumor types, supratentorial tumor, history of brain tumor 
resection, controlled primary site, and absent extracranial metastases. Local 
lesion control was obtained in 82% of the patients according to their last 
follow-up MRI scan. GKR is an effective means of treating patients with brain 
metastases.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000056462
PMID: 11124663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Can J Gastroenterol. 2000 Dec;14(11):922-8. doi: 10.1155/2000/697943.

Peptic disease in elderly patients.

Khaghan N(1), Holt PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, St Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, New 
York 10025, USA

The increase in life expectancy demands that more attention be given to 
gastrointestinal problems, such as peptic ulcer disease, in elderly people. This 
review summarizes many of the physiological changes that have a role in peptic 
ulcer disease in elderly patients. How Helicobacter pylori infection modifies 
the course of peptic disease is also reviewed. The clinical presentation of 
peptic diseases often differs in elderly people, and atypical symptoms are 
common. Accurate diagnosis requires aggressive endoscopic evaluation. Treatment 
regimens using H2 receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors and regimens to 
eradicate H pylori may also need to be altered in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2000/697943
PMID: 11125182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Benefits Q. 2000;16(4):31-6.

Will we outlive our money?

Salisbury DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI), Washington, D.C., USA.

Fewer and fewer Americans retire with benefits in the form of life annuities. 
The author raises key issues regarding the increased importance that uncertainty 
plays in determining retirement income. The key issues include longevity risk 
and how savings withdrawals rates will be affected at varying rates of return.

PMID: 11126051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Intensive Care Med. 2000 Oct;26(10):1473-9. doi: 10.1007/s001340000629.

Health-related quality of life of multiple organ dysfunction patients one year 
after intensive care.

Pettilä V(1), Kaarlola A, Mäkeläinen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland. 
ville.pettila@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: To assess the quality of life (QOL) of intensive care survivors 1 
year after discharge with special emphasis on multiple organ dysfunction (MOD).
DESIGN: Prospective, observational study.
SETTING: A ten-bed medical-surgical intensive care unit in a tertiary care 
hospital.
PATIENTS: Among the 591 consecutive patients admitted in the year 1995, 307 of 
378 patients who survived 1 year were studied.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: A generic scale assessing health-related QOL, the RAND 
36-item Health Survey (RAND 36) was sent by mail 12 months after discharge. Data 
concerning age, severity of illness, organ dysfunctions and diagnoses were 
recorded. Of 307 patients, 98 (31.9 %) were able to work. The QOL measured by 
the RAND 36 showed clinically relevant impairment in emotional and physical role 
limitations compared with an age- and sex-matched general population. MOD (n = 
131, 42.7 %) had a statistically significant negative effect on all QOL domains, 
except bodily pain and mental health, with the only clinically relevant 
impairment being in vitality and emotional role limitations compared with 
non-MOD patients. Of the 131 MOD patients, 36 (27.4 %) were able to work, 26 
(19.8%) had severe limitations in their daily activities and 5 (3.8 %) were 
unable to live at home 1 year after discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: One year after intensive care the survivors had a lower QOL than an 
age-matched general population with clinically relevant further impairment of 
MOD patients in vitality and emotional role limitations.

DOI: 10.1007/s001340000629
PMID: 11126259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Int J Health Serv. 2000;30(4):717-38. doi: 10.2190/4M70-6CX9-HPU9-9LT4.

A nation in pain: why the HIV/AIDS epidemic is out of control in Zimbabwe.

Sibanda A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Population Studies Center, 3718 Locust Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

There has been a dramatic increase in the number of people living with HIV and 
the number who have died of AIDS-related diseases in Zimbabwe since the early 
1990s. This increase has caused shock waves and panic in Zimbabwe and in the 
entire southern African region. Understanding the factors that have given rise 
to and sustained patterns of sexual behavior that allow HIV to be transmitted 
easily and quickly among the general populace is of paramount importance if 
HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns are to be better formulated and to be effective in 
this part of sub-Saharan Africa. This article makes a contribution to those 
studies that seek to examine socioeconomic, cultural, political, and 
psychological factors determining high-risk sexual behaviors leading to 
heterosexual HIV infection in the African context. The author contends that the 
focus of HIV/AIDS prevention programs should be on a myriad of socioeconomic, 
cultural, political, and behavioral factors instead of just on women and 
prostitutes--groups that have the least negotiating power within the context of 
sex and reproduction in a patriarchal society such as Zimbabwe. The author also 
points out many important areas that have been omitted in the study of HIV 
transmission and AIDS in Africa.

DOI: 10.2190/4M70-6CX9-HPU9-9LT4
PMID: 11127020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 2000 Nov 18;130(46):1754-9.

Surgery of colorectal cancer: beyond the frontiers.

Gervaz PA(1), Wexner SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Florida, 3000 West Cypress 
Creek Road, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33309, USA.

Colorectal cancer is a significant health problem in Western countries and is 
expected to grow further as life expectancy increases. Different surgical 
techniques have improved the treatment of colorectal cancer. Three controversial 
treatment modalities are reviewed: laparoscopic surgery for colon cancer, total 
mesorectal excision, and adjuvant radiotherapy in the management of rectal 
cancer. Finally, recent advances in the molecular biology of sporadic colorectal 
cancer are discussed.

PMID: 11127954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2000 Dec;49(10):530-6. doi:
10.1007/s002620000150.

Behaviour of interleukin-2 serum levels in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
patients: relationship with response to therapy and survival.

Orditura M(1), Romano C, De Vita F, Galizia G, Lieto E, Infusino S, De Cataldis 
G, Catalano G.

Author information:
(1)F. Magrassi Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Second 
University of Naples School of Medicine, Italy. orditura@sirio-oncology.it

Interleukin(IL)-2 is a T helper (Th) 1 type cytokine that has been shown to play 
an important role in antitumour immune responses. In this study, the prognostic 
significance of serum IL-2 levels was investigated in 60 advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. IL-2 serum levels were determined before 
chemotherapy, at the end of chemotherapy and during follow-up, using a 
commercially available enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay kit. The results were 
analysed according to the response to therapy and were used to generate a model 
predicting overall survival and time to treatment failure. All 60 patients were 
shown to have higher IL-2 serum levels than controls (P < 0.0001). Stage IV 
patients had significantly lower IL-2 levels than stage III patients (P < 
0.0001), although they were still significantly higher than controls (P < 
0.0001). It is interesting that, when patients were divided into responders and 
non-responders according to the response to therapy, the former were shown to 
have significantly higher pre-chemotherapy levels than the latter (P < 0.0001). 
Moreover, a further significant increase in IL-2 serum levels (P = 0.004) and a 
significant decrease (P < 0.0001) were shown in responders and non-responders, 
respectively at the end of the therapy. Using univariate and multivariate 
analyses, both overall survival and time to treatment failure were shown to be 
affected by the mean pathological levels of IL-2. Furthermore, the prognostic 
significance of the serum level of IL-2 was confirmed by the stepwise regression 
analysis. In conclusion, determination of pre-treatment IL-2 serum levels was 
shown to be of independent prognostic utility in patients with advanced NSCLC; 
therefore, its possible use for prediction of outcome is proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s002620000150
PMID: 11129323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2000 Apr;57(4):635-50. doi: 10.1007/PL00000725.

The metabotropic GABA receptor: molecular insights and their functional 
consequences.

Blein S(1), Hawrot E, Barlow P.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Centre for Protein Technology, University of Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom.

Recent years have seen rapid and significant advances in our understanding of 
the G-protein-coupled gamma-amino butyric acid, B-type (GABA(B)) receptor, which 
could be a therapeutic target in conditions as diverse as epilepsy and 
hypertension. This progress originated with the ground-breaking work of Bernhard 
Bettler's team at Novartis who cloned the DNA encoding a GABA(B) receptor in 
1997. Currently, the receptor is thought to be an unusual, possibly unique, 
example of a heterodimer composed of homologous, seven-transmembrane-domain 
(7TMD) subunits (named GABA(B) R1 and GABA(B) R2), neither of which is fully 
functional when expressed alone. The large N-terminal domain of the GABA(B) R1 
subunit projects extracellularly and contains a ligand binding site. The 
similarity of the amino acid sequence of this region to some bacterial 
periplasmic amino acid-binding proteins of known structure has enabled 
structural and functional modelling of the N-terminal domain, and the 
identification of residues whose substitution modulates agonist/antagonist 
binding affinities. The intracellular C-terminal domains of the R1 and R2 
subunits appear to constitute an important means of contact between the two 
subunits. Alternative splice variants, a common and functionally important 
feature of 7TMD proteins, have been demonstrated for the R1 subunit. Notably 
GABA(B) R1a differs from GABA(B) R1b by the possession of an N-terminal 
extension containing two complement protein modules (also called SCRs, or sushi 
domains) of unknown function. The levels at which each of the respective 
variants is expressed are not equal to one another, with variations occurring 
over the course of development and throughout the central nervous system. It is 
not yet clear, however, whether one variant is predominantly presynaptically 
located and the other postsynaptically located. The existence of as yet 
unidentified splice variants, additional receptor subtypes and alternative 
quaternary composition has not been ruled out as a source of receptor 
heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1007/PL00000725
PMID: 11130463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Trauma. 2000 Dec;49(6):1059-64. doi: 10.1097/00005373-200012000-00014.

An evidence-based cost-effectiveness model on methods of prevention of 
posttraumatic venous thromboembolism.

Velmahos GC(1), Oh Y, McCombs J, Oder D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles 90033, USA. velmahos@hsc.usc.edu

BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism (VT) after injury is a major health problem. 
Literature data on methods of VT prophylaxis are not consistent with regard to 
safety and efficacy, and a recent evidence-based report could not conclude that 
any method was superior to any other or to no prophylaxis. Because no study 
exists on the cost-effectiveness (C-E) of the different methods of prophylaxis, 
data from the evidence-based report were used to design a C-E analysis. This 
analysis will assist in the design of future randomized trials with adequate 
power to show significant outcome differences.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was designed on the basis of outcomes from the 
evidence-based report or relevant literature. We then calculated the cost of 
prevention of VT by one of the most commonly used methods-low-dose heparin 
(LDH), low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), or sequential compression devices 
(SCDs)-using different probabilities of incidence of VT. Finally, we adjusted 
the cost for expected years of life after the episode of VT to calculate the 
cost per life-year saved by preventing VT.
RESULTS: We produced two tables that can be used to calculate the cost per 
life-year saved for any patient according to his or her age and the method of 
prophylaxis used. VT prophylaxis becomes less cost-effective as age progresses, 
because of decreased life-expectancy. With a widely accepted cost limit of 
$50,000 per life-year saved to indicate cost-effective treatment, LDH is more 
cost-effective than LMWH or SCDs.
CONCLUSION: Our C-E model can help future investigators plan VT-related research 
with appropriate sample sizes to evaluate cost-effective methods of prophylaxis. 
LMWH and SCDs must demonstrate substantial improvements in measured outcomes to 
be more cost-effective than LDH. C-E must be incorporated as a primary outcome 
in future studies comparing different methods of VT prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-200012000-00014
PMID: 11130489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Lancet. 2000 Dec 9;356(9246):2004-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)03319-5.

Cholesterol-lowering therapy for smokers and non-smokers: a life-table analysis.

Bonneux L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bonneux@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Erratum in
    Lancet 2001 Apr 28;357(9265):1370.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Mar 24;357(9260):960.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)03319-5
PMID: 11130539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2000 Dec;42(12):803-8. doi: 10.1017/s0012162200001493.

Birth defects in children with newborn encephalopathy.

Felix JF(1), Badawi N, Kurinczuk JJ, Bower C, Keogh JM, Pemberton PJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical student, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

This study was designed to investigate birth defects found in association with 
newborn encephalopathy. All possible birth defects were ascertained in a 
population-based study of 276 term infants with moderate or severe 
encephalopathy and 564 unmatched term control infants. A strong association 
between birth defects and newborn encephalopathy was found with defects 
affecting 27.5% of children with encephalopathy and 4.3% of control children 
(odds ratio 8.55; 95% confidence interval 5.25 to 13.91;p<0.001). In 11.8% of 
infants with a birth defect the defect was not diagnosed until after the newborn 
period, illustrating one of the difficulties in attempting to exclude infants 
with birth defects from studies of newborn encephalopathy. The majority of 
defects (89%) were not specific anomalies of the CNS. In 36.8% of children with 
encephalopthy who had a birth defect, the defect was considered to be the 
probable cause of the encephalopathy. Infants with birth defects who had 
encephalopathy had a poorer prognosis than those without: they were twice as 
likely to die by the age of 2 years and three times more likely to have cerebral 
palsy. This study catalogues the spectrum of birth defects associated with 
newborn encephalopathy and illustrates the importance of their inclusion when 
investigating both the aetiology and outcome of this condition.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162200001493
PMID: 11132253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2000 Nov;82(8):1167-9. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.82b8.10653.

A prospective comparative analysis of mobility in osteoarthritic knees.

Szabó G(1), Lovász G, Kustos T, Bener A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Tawam Hospital, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2002 Mar;84(2):308.

We have sought to clarify whether the traditional Arabic lifestyle prevents 
restriction of movement in patients with degenerative arthritis of the knee. The 
range of movement of 68 osteoarthritic knees of Arabic patients was compared 
with that of 51 healthy knees of Muslim patients and 83 osteoarthritic knees in 
non-Arabic patients. The range of flexion of the osteoarthritic knees in the 
Arabic patients matched that of the healthy control knees, but was significantly 
better than that of the osteoarthritic knees in the non-Arabic patients. There 
was also a statistically significant difference between the mean extension 
deficit of the two groups with osteoarthritis. Exercises may help to prevent 
restriction of movement in osteoarthritis of the knee.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.82b8.10653
PMID: 11132280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Actas Urol Esp. 2000 Oct;24(9):692-8. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72530-7.

[Androcheck: a new concept in urology in the Third Millennium].

[Article in Spanish]

Nogueira March JL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72530-7
PMID: 11132439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Blood. 2001 Jan 1;97(1):327-9. doi: 10.1182/blood.v97.1.327.

Enhanced survival in Sandhoff disease mice receiving a combination of substrate 
deprivation therapy and bone marrow transplantation.

Jeyakumar M(1), Norflus F, Tifft CJ, Cortina-Borja M, Butters TD, Proia RL, 
Perry VH, Dwek RA, Platt FM.

Author information:
(1)Glycobiology Institute, Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, United Kingdom.

Sandhoff disease is a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by G(M2) 
ganglioside accumulation in the central nervous system (CNS) and periphery. It 
results from mutations in the HEXB gene, causing a deficiency in 
beta-hexosaminidase. Bone marrow transplantation (BMT), which augments enzyme 
levels, and substrate deprivation (using the glycosphingolipid biosynthesis 
inhibitor N-butyldeoxynojirimycin [NB-DNJ]) independently have been shown to 
extend life expectancy in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease. The efficacy of 
combining these 2 therapies was evaluated. Sandhoff disease mice treated with 
BMT and NB-DNJ survived significantly longer than those treated with BMT or 
NB-DNJ alone. When the mice were subdivided into 2 groups on the basis of their 
donor bone marrow-derived CNS enzyme levels, the high enzyme group exhibited a 
greater degree of synergy (25%) than the group as a whole (13%). Combination 
therapy may therefore be the strategy of choice for treating the infantile onset 
disease variants.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v97.1.327
PMID: 11133779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Jan 1;19(1):220-30. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.1.220.

Patient preference for cancer therapy: an overview of measurement approaches.

Stiggelbout AM(1), de Haes JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Stiggelbout@rullf2.medfac.leidenuniv.nl

PURPOSE: In the era of evidence-based medicine and shared decision making, the 
formal assessment of patient preference for treatments or treatment outcomes has 
attracted much attention. In this article, the two most common approaches to the 
evaluation of preference, ie, utility assessment and probability trade-off 
assessment, are described. The purpose is to provide clinicians with the 
background knowledge needed to interpret preference studies published in the 
literature and to judge whether the reported findings are relevant to their own 
patients.
METHODS: An overview is given of the methods used to assess utilities and 
probability trade-off scores. Evidence on determinants of such scores is 
presented. Examples from oncology are provided. Because experience with the 
treatment plays an important role as a determinant of preferences for both 
treatments and treatment outcomes, special attention is paid to the 
interpretation of studies in the light of subject selection. Directions for 
future research are suggested.
CONCLUSION: The choice of approach and the measuring instrument depend on the 
goal of the preference assessment. Normal psychologic processes, such as coping, 
adaptation, and cognitive dissonance reduction, cause patients who are about to 
undergo a therapy or have experienced a therapy to rate it more favorably than 
other patients do. This should be remembered when using evidence from the 
literature to inform patients or for patient decision making.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.1.220
PMID: 11134216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Surg Oncol. 2000 Dec;75(4):280-300. doi: 
10.1002/1096-9098(200012)75:4<280::aid-jso13>3.0.co;2-q.

Pelvic cancer pain.

Rigor BM Sr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, School of Medicine, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, Kentucky, USA.

Pelvic cancer causes several types of pain, i.e., visceral, neuropathic, and 
somatic pain. Somatic pain is due to stimulation of nociceptors in the 
integument and supporting structures, namely, striated muscles, joints, 
periosteum, bones, and nerve trunks by direct extension through fascial planes 
and their lymphatic supply. In 60% of patients with malignant disease of soft 
tissues, nerve trunk, and sacral invasion from carcinoma of the cervix, uterus, 
vagina, colon, rectum, and other tissues in women, and from penile, prostate, 
and colorectal carcinoma and sarcoma in men, they have neuropathic pain. The 
infiltration of the perineal nerves results in lumbosacral plexopathies and 
complete destruction of the nerve, including perineural lymphatic invasions 
producing symptomatic sensory loss, causalgia, and deafferentation. Visceral 
pain is the result of spasms of smooth muscles of hallow viscus; distortion of 
capsule of solid organs; inflammation; chemical irritation; traction or twisting 
of mesentery; and ischemia, or necrosis, and encroachment of pelvis and 
presacral tumors. Pain of these types is managed by different modalities 
depending on the age of the patient, the expected life expectancy, availability 
of invasive and non-invasive pain control modalities, and the resources of the 
patient, community, and health care agencies. Patients with pelvic cancer can 
live with less pain due to better pain-control modalities that are available 
today with the help of dedicated and caring algologists.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-9098(200012)75:4<280::aid-jso13>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 11135274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Stat Med. 2001 Jan 15;20(1):109-122. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0258(20010115)20:1<109::aid-sim615>3.0.co;2-n.

A piecewise Markov process for analysing survival from breast cancer in 
different risk groups.

Pérez-Ocón R(1), Ruiz-Castro JE, Gámiz-Pérez ML.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Estadística e Investigación Operativa, Universidad de 
Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain. rperezo@ugr.es

A study of the relapse and survival times for 300 breast cancer patients 
submitted to post-surgical treatments is presented. After surgery, these 
patients were given three treatments: chemotherapy; radiotherapy; hormonal 
therapy and a combination of them. From the data set, a non-homogeneous Markov 
model is selected as suitable for the evolution of the disease. The model is 
applied considering two time periods during the observation of the cohort where 
the disease is well differentiated with respect to death and relapse. The effect 
of the treatments on the patients is introduced into the model via the 
transition intensity functions. A piecewise Markov process is applied, the 
likelihood function is built and the parameters are estimated, following a 
parametric methodological procedure. As a consequence, a survival table for 
different treatments is given, and survival functions for different treatments 
are plotted and compared with the corresponding empirical survival function. The 
fit of the different curves is good, and predictions can be made on the survival 
probabilities to post-surgical treatments for different risk groups.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0258(20010115)20:1<109::aid-sim615>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 11135351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jan;20(1):35-9. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00261-0.

Using the years-of-healthy-life measure to calculate QALYs.

Muennig PA(1), Gold MR.

Author information:
(1)Robert J. Milano Graduate School, New School University, New York, New York 
10011, USA. muennigp@newschool.edu

BACKGROUND: The quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is an attractive outcome 
measure because it captures both health-related quality of life (HRQL) and life 
expectancy in a single metric. We present a method for calculating QALYs that is 
simple, utilizes data that are free of charge, and may improve consistency in 
burden-of-disease investigations.
METHODS: For purposes of illustration, we calculated the burden of disease due 
to stroke using two abridged life tables, each adjusted for HRQL. The first life 
table was generated using all-cause mortality and morbidity data (a reference 
cohort) and the second was generated using all diseases except stroke (a 
stroke-free cohort). The difference in total QALYs and in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) was determined by subtraction.
RESULTS: Approximately 61,328 (95% CI=60,272, 62,383) QALYs were lost to stroke 
in the life-table cohort. Stroke is responsible for a decrement of 0.03 years of 
life expectancy and 0.61 years of QALE in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS: The "years of health life"measure affords a rapid, inexpensive, and 
sensitive means for estimating the burden of disease for local health priorities 
and may assist research efforts in including QALYs as an outcome measure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00261-0
PMID: 11137772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Health Econ. 2000 Dec;9(8):669-80. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1050(200012)9:8<669::aid-hec542>3.0.co;2-k.

Is there a trade-off between longevity and quality of life in Grossman's pure 
investment model?

Eisenring C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Bern, Department of Economics, Bern, Switzerland. 
christoph.eisenring@vwi.unibe.ch

The question is posed whether an individual maximizes lifetime or trades off 
longevity for quality of life in Grossman's pure investment (PI)-model. It is 
shown that the answer critically hinges on the assumed production function for 
healthy time. If the production function for healthy time produces a trade-off 
between life-span and quality of life, one has to solve a sequence of fixed time 
problems. The one offering maximal intertemporal utility determines optimal 
longevity. Comparative static results of optimal longevity for a simplified 
version of the PI-model are derived. The obtained results predict that higher 
initial endowments of wealth and health, a rise in the wage rate, or 
improvements in the technology of producing healthy time, all increase the 
optimal length of life. On the other hand, optimal longevity is decreasing in 
the depreciation and interest rate. From a technical point of view, the paper 
illustrates that a discrete time equivalent to the transversality condition for 
optimal longevity employed in continuous optimal control models does not exist.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1050(200012)9:8<669::aid-hec542>3.0.co;2-k
PMID: 11137949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Epidemiology. 2001 Jan;12(1):28-32. doi: 10.1097/00001648-200101000-00006.

Toward measuring the impact of ecological disintegrity on human health.

Sieswerda LE(1), Soskolne CL, Newman SC, Schopflocher D, Smoyer KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Erratum in
    Epidemiology 2001 Mar;12(2):283.

Ecological integrity refers to the ability of environmental life-support systems 
to sustain themselves in the face of human-induced impacts. We used a 
correlational, aggregate-data study design to explore whether life expectancy, 
as a general measure of population health, is linked to large-scale declines in 
ecological integrity. Most of the data were obtained from World Resources 
Institute publications. Selected surrogate measures of ecological integrity and 
gross domestic product (GDP) per capita (as a socioeconomic confounder) were 
modeled, for the first time, using linear regression techniques with life 
expectancy as the health outcome. We found a modest relation between ecological 
integrity and life expectancy, but the direction of the association was 
inconsistent. When GDP per capita was controlled, the relation between 
ecological integrity and life expectancy was lost. GDP per capita was the 
overwhelming predictor of health. Any relation between ecological integrity and 
health may be mediated by socioeconomic factors. The effect of declines in 
ecological integrity may be cushioned by the exploitation of ecological capital, 
preventing a direct association between measures of exposure and outcome. In 
addition, life expectancy may be too insensitive a measure of health impacts 
related to ecological decline, and more sensitive measures may need to be 
developed.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-200101000-00006
PMID: 11138815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Appl Toxicol. 2000 Sep-Oct;20(5):365-80. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1263(200009/10)20:5<365::AID-JAT700>3.0.CO;2-7.

Development of California Public Health Goals (PHGs) for chemicals in drinking 
water.

Howd RA(1), Brown JP, Morry DW, Wang YY, Bankowska J, Budroe JD, Campbell M, 
DiBartolomeis MJ, Faust J, Jowa L, Lewis D, Parker T, Polakoff J, Rice DW, 
Salmon AG, Tomar RS, Fan AM.

Author information:
(1)Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, California Environmental 
Protection Agency, Oakland 94612, USA.

As part of a program for evaluation of environmental contaminants in drinking 
water, risk assessments are being conducted to develop Public Health Goals 
(PHGs) for chemicals in drinking water, based solely on public health 
considerations. California's Safe Drinking Water Act of 1996 mandated the 
development of PHGs for over 80 chemicals by 31 December 1999. The law allowed 
these levels to be set higher or lower than federal maximum contaminant levels 
(MCLs), including a level of zero if data are insufficient to determine a 
specific level. The estimated safe levels and toxicological rationale for the 
first 26 of these chemicals are described here. The chemicals include alachlor, 
antimony, benzo[a]pyrene, chlordane, copper, cyanide, dalapon, 
1,2-dichlorobenzene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 2,4-D, diethylhexylphthalate, dinoseb, 
endothall, ethylbenzene, fluoride, glyphosate, lead, nitrate, nitrite, oxamyl, 
pentachlorophenol, picloram, trichlorofluoromethane, trichlorotrifluoroethane, 
uranium and xylene(s). These risk assessments are to be considered by the State 
of California in revising and developing state MCLs for chemicals in drinking 
water (which must not exceed federal MCLs). The estimates are also notable for 
incorporation or consideration of newer guidelines and principles for risk 
assessment extrapolations.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1263(200009/10)20:5<365::AID-JAT700>3.0.CO;2-7
PMID: 11139167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Baillieres Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2000 Dec;14(6):991-1008. doi: 
10.1053/bega.2000.0143.

Early diagnosis and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Llovet JM(1), Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Institut de Malalties Digestives, Catalonia, Spain.

The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma is increasing world-wide. Although 
there are no randomized controlled trials showing benefits from surveillance 
programmes, these strategies have been widely practised by hepatologists, and 
most early tumours are diagnosed in the setting of such a policy. In this 
chapter we summarize the surveillance schedule and recall the policy applied in 
our Unit. Diagnosis at an early stage is crucial to allow the application of 
curative treatments that are the only hope for increasing the life expectancy of 
the patient. Surgical resection and liver transplantation are considered the 
first-line options for early tumours, although there is no agreement on which is 
the best approach. Resection is limited by the high recurrence rate, whereas the 
increasing waiting times have decreased the intention-to-treat outcomes of 
transplantation. Percutaneous treatments are reserved for patients with single 
non-surgical tumours. Clinical trials assessing treatments for patients with 
advanced tumours have not shown any survival benefits.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/bega.2000.0143
PMID: 11139351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Cancer Treat Rev. 2000 Dec;26(6):429-47. doi: 10.1053/ctrv.2000.0175.

Long-term chemotherapy-related cardiovascular morbidity.

Meinardi MT(1), Gietema JA, van Veldhuisen DJ, van der Graaf WT, de Vries EG, 
Sleijfer DT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
Hospital Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. M.T.Meinardi@thorax.azg.nl

As a consequence of the successful use of chemotherapy in the treatment of 
curable neoplasms such as germ cell tumours and malignant lymphomas, and the 
increasing application of primary and adjuvant chemotherapy for various tumour 
types, the number of patients with a prolonged life expectancy after treatment 
is rising. Attention to long-term side-effects, including cardiovascular 
toxicity, is therefore of growing importance. In this review we evaluate the 
literature on long-term cardiovascular toxicity related to chemotherapy in adult 
patients. Two categories of patient with favourable life expectancy have been 
reviewed, namely patients cured of metastatic disease by chemotherapy and 
patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. In the first category, the 
literature on long-term cardiovascular morbidity in survivors of metastatic 
testicular cancer and lymphomas is discussed, while in the second category this 
is done for patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy for breast and colon 
cancer. As well as the direct toxic effects of chemotherapy on the 
cardiovascular system, the indirect toxic effects such as chemotherapy-related 
metabolic changes that may cause cardiovascular morbidity are also discussed.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ctrv.2000.0175
PMID: 11139373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2000 Nov;24(11):995-1000.

[Late biliary complications after endoscopic sphincterotomy for common bile duct 
stones in patients older than 65 years of age with gallbladder in situ].

[Article in French]

Boytchev I(1), Pelletier G, Prat F, Choury AD, Fritsch J, Buffet C.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Foie et de l'Appareil Digestif, CHU de Bicêtre, Le 
Kremlin Bicêtre.

Comment in
    Curr Surg. 2003 Mar-Apr;60(2):112-6.

The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the nature and the frequency 
of biliary complications after endoscopic retrograde cholangiography for common 
bile duct stones in elderly patients with gallbladder in situ.
METHODS: Between 1991 and 1993, 169 consecutive patients with gallbladder in 
situ, older than 65 years (79 +/- 8) had an endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiography with sphincterotomy for choledocholithiasis. Information on the 
early (<1 month) and late biliary complications, treatment and mortality were 
obtained by mail or phone calls from patients and general practitioners. 
Long-term data were obtained for 139 patients (82%). Mean follow-up was 56.5 
months (80 months for patients still alive at the end of the study).
RESULTS: Early complications occurred in 13 patients (10.8%). Seven patients had 
acute cholecystitis, present before the procedure in all cases; all were treated 
by surgery. Other early complications included cholangitis (n =7), mild acute 
pancreatitis (n =3), bleeding (n =1), perforation (n =1), biliary colic (n =1), 
pneumopathy (n =1) and bradycardia (n =1), all treated medically. Forty patients 
underwent early cholecystectomy, and 5 died during the first month without 
biliary disease. Late complications were thus assessed in 94 patients and 
occurred in 13 (14%), i.e around 2% per year. Complications were acute 
cholangitis (n=4), biliary pain (n =4), cholecystitis (n =2), abdominal pain (n 
=2) and jaundice due to sphincterotomy stenosis (n =1). Five patients had 
cholecystectomy, 1 a radiological drainage and 7 were treated medically. No 
death due to a biliary complication was observed. The presence of gallstones, 
the absence of gallbladder opacification at cholangiography were not prognostic 
factors for the recurrence of biliary symptoms. 65 patients (50%) died without 
biliary disease during the follow-up (actuarial death rate 10.5% per year).
CONCLUSION: Late biliary complications after endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiography for choledocholithiasis in patients with gallbladder in situ are 
rare (2% per year). Prophylactic cholecystectomy after sphincterotomy does not 
seem warranted in elderly patients, because of rare recurrent biliary symptoms, 
low mortality rate, and limited life expectancy.

PMID: 11139666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 2000 Jun;20(3):187-91.

[Post-parotidectomy Frey's syndrome. Treatment with botulinum toxin type A].

[Article in Italian]

Cavalot AL(1), Palonta F, Preti G, Nazionale G, Ricci E, Staffieri A, Di 
Girolamo S, Cortesina G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Fisiopatologia Clinica, II Cattedra di ORL, Università di 
Torino.

The Frey's syndrome, manifest after parotid trauma, is characterized by head and 
neck hyperemia and abundant sweating of the hyperemic skin in response to 
gustatory stimuli. The use of the botulin toxin to treat the symptoms in 
patients with Frey's syndrome has been described in numerous studies. For some 
time up until now our Center has achieved excellent results using the group A 
botulin toxin to overcome the hypertonus of the cricopharyngeal muscle in 
patients who had undergone laryngectomy and were rehabilitated with voice 
button. We have sought to extend the use of this toxin to Frey's syndrome, a 
relatively frequent complication of parotidectomy. A total of 86 patients 
participated in the study: 41 males (47.6%) and 45 females (52.4%) ranging in 
age from 25 to 77 years (average age 51 years). Of these patients 7 (8.1%) had 
undergone post-operative radiotherapy. Of the 86 patients studied, 18 referred 
significant symptoms in terms of abundance and frequency. The syndrome was 
considered severe if the symptoms were present at each meal and if the patient 
indicated a significant worsening of his quality of life. Intermittent episodes 
were indicated by 22 patients. The remaining 46 (43.5%) did not complain of any 
symptoms. The exact extension of the cervicofacial gustatory sweating was 
evaluated using the Minor test and the involved region was divided into 1 square 
centimeters sections. The amount of skin surface involved ranged from 10 to 80 
square centimeters. The type A neurotoxin was frozen and was reconstituted with 
a sterile saline solution at a final concentration of 2.5 UI/0.1 ml. The 
intracutaneous infiltration was performed without anesthesia, infiltrating 0.1 
ml of solution, containing 2.5 UI of toxin into the center of each 1 square 
centimeters section. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate the 
potential relationship between how long the treatment was effective, incidence 
of recurrence, seriousness of the crises and the following variables: age, sex, 
histology, cutaneous surface involved, injected dose of botulin toxin and 
post-operative radiotherapy. In the group of 18 patients with severe symptoms 
(20.9%) the benefit was immediate in all cases although the recurrence rate was 
50%. The Frey's syndrome symptoms disappeared within 7 days of infiltration. In 
the group of 22 patients with less severe involvement (25.5%), the treatment 
gave positive, definitive results in 16 patients (72.7%). Those patients whose 
symptoms persisted were treated a second time with an infiltration of 2.5 UI per 
square centimeters. We feel that the use of the type A botulin toxin is the most 
appropriate treatment for the Frey's syndrome. In fact, such treatment offers 
the following advantages: it is effective within 7 days, has limited side 
effects, can be applied on an outpatient basis, is inexpensive and is positively 
considered by the patients.

PMID: 11139877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2000 Jul;130(7):687-90. doi: 10.1007/BF02682106.

Effect of vilon on biological age and lifespan in mice.

Khavinson VK(1), Anisimov VN, Zavarzina NY, Zabezhinskii MA, Zimina OA, Popovich 
IG, Shtylik AV, Malinin VV, Morozov VG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, North-West Division of the 
Russian Academy of Medical Science, St Petersburg. vvm@med-port.ru

Subcutaneous administration of vilon (Lys-Glu) to female CBA mice starting from 
the 6th month of life increased physical activity and endurance, decreased body 
temperature, prolonged the lifespan, and prevented the development of 
spontaneous neoplasms. Vilon had no effect on age-related changes of estrous 
function and free radical processes. Long-term administration of vilon caused no 
unfavourable effects on animal development. The obtained results show safety of 
chronic vilon administration and allow to use this preparation for 
geroprotection and prophylaxis of age pathology.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02682106
PMID: 11140587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2000;51(2):115-36. doi: 10.2190/0BAJ-HPJ8-V0QL-DFMQ.

Coping strategies and integrative meaning as moderators of chronic illness.

Scioli A(1), McClelland DC, Weaver SL, Madden EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Keene State College, New Hampshire 03431, USA.

This study contrasted the moderating effects of deriving integrative meaning (a 
primary appraisal process) with the use of specific, cognitive-behavioral 
strategies (a secondary appraisal process) in confronting stressors involving 
harm or loss. Eighty young adults and eighty older participants with varying 
levels of chronic illness were assessed. Open-ended responses to recalled 
experiences with illness and death were coded for integrative meaning and use of 
specific cognitive-behavioral strategies. In young adults with higher levels of 
chronic illness, a greater tendency to use specific cognitive-behavioral 
strategies was related to higher morale. In older participants, a greater 
tendency to derive integrative meaning was related to increased morale, 
regardless of illness levels.

DOI: 10.2190/0BAJ-HPJ8-V0QL-DFMQ
PMID: 11140847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Folia Biol (Praha). 2000;46(6):241-50.

A comparison of systemic versus inhaled recombinant IL-2 administration for the 
treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Huland E(1), Heinzer H, Huland H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany. 
huland@uke.uni-hamburg.de

The aim of the current study was to compare the objective response and survival 
rates of patients with mRCC treated with IL-2 administered either systemically 
(SYST, subcutaneously) or via inhalation (INH), using relatively large sample 
sizes to afford a more meaningful comparison. We used univariate and 
multivariate analyses to retrospectively evaluate the data from two different 
databases generated from 277 patients treated with IL-2 during the 1993-1997 
period, one developed at the University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, and the 
other at Chiron-Amsterdam. Patients treated with INH IL-2 tended to have a 
poorer ECOG performance status than patients receiving SYST IL-2. Of 75 patients 
receiving INH IL-2, eight (10.7%) achieved an objective response; of 202 
patients administered SYST IL-2, 45 (22.2%) achieved an objective response. The 
median survival time was 13.8 months for patients receiving INH IL-2 and 13.1 
months for patients treated with SYST IL-2. One- and two-year survival rates 
were also comparable for the two treatment modalities (one-year: INH, 55%; SYST, 
56%; two-year: INH, 28%; SYST, 26%). There was no significant difference in the 
likelihood of survival for patients receiving INH IL-2 versus SYST IL-2 (risk 
ratio = 0.82, P = 0.27). Patients administered INH IL-2 experienced considerably 
less toxicity and complications than patients administered SYST IL-2. We 
conclude that INH IL-2 treatment is at least as effective as SYST IL-2 treatment 
in promoting the survival of patients with mRCC. Given that INH IL-2 treatment 
of patients with a poorer ECOG performance status elicited a survival rate 
comparable to that seen with SYST IL-2 treatment of patients with a superior 
performance status, the potential exists for INH IL-2 treatment to be even more 
effective for patients having a better performance status. Additionally, INH 
IL-2 treatment is considerably less toxic and associated with fewer 
complications than SYST IL-2 treatment, thus providing a therapeutic option for 
otherwise untreatable patients, offering patients a relatively good quality of 
life, and requiring fewer co-medications. Nonetheless, selection of an IL-2 
treatment modality should be based on several patient-related considerations. 
Moreover, these two IL-2 treatment modalities need not be mutually exclusive.

PMID: 11140857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2000 Dec 15;25(5):403-16. doi: 
10.1097/00042560-200012150-00004.

The cost effectiveness of voluntary prenatal and routine newborn HIV screening 
in the United States.

Zaric GS(1), Bayoumi AM, Brandeau ML, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Ivey School of Business, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of voluntary prenatal and routine 
postnatal HIV screening in the cohort of pregnant women and newborns in the 
United States.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis. We developed a decision model to analyze 
the cost effectiveness of enhanced prenatal screening and routine newborn 
screening for HIV. We also analyzed the incremental cost effectiveness of 
routine newborn screening when improved voluntary prenatal screening is already 
in place.
PARTICIPANTS: Analysis of the cohort of pregnant women and newborns in the 
United States.
