INTERVENTIONS: Enhanced prenatal screening, or routine newborn screening for 
HIV.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Infections averted, life expectancy, costs, and 
incremental cost effectiveness.
RESULTS: Improved participation in voluntary prenatal HIV screening would result 
in an additional 1.1 million women being screened annually, would identify an 
additional 527 HIV-infected mothers annually, would avert 150 infections in 
newborns, and would cost $8,900 U.S. per life-year gained. Routine newborn HIV 
screening would test 3.9 million infants annually, would identify 1061 
HIV-infected mothers, would avert 266 infections in newborns, and would cost 
$7,000 U.S. per life-year gained. If improved voluntary prenatal screening is 
already in place, routine newborn screening would avert an additional 135 
infections in newborns, at an incremental cost of $10, 600 U.S. per life-year 
gained. The screening programs are likely to be cost effective over a wide range 
of assumptions regarding key factors in the analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Improved voluntary prenatal HIV screening of women and routine 
screening of newborns are cost effective. Routine newborn screening becomes less 
attractive as the rate of voluntary prenatal screening increases. Improved 
participation in voluntary prenatal screening has the added benefit that mothers 
maintain their right to determine whether they are tested for HIV.

DOI: 10.1097/00042560-200012150-00004
PMID: 11141240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Pituitary. 2000 Oct;3(2):77-81. doi: 10.1023/a:1009901707125.

Is vascular mortality increased in hypopituitarism?

Erfurth EM(1), Bülow B, Hagmar LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, University 
Hospital, SE-221 85 Lund, Sweden. Eva-Marie.Erfurth@med.lu.se

Hitherto four relevant cohort studies have been published on the life expectancy 
of patients with hypopituitarism, two from the UK and two from Sweden. In all 
four studies patients with acromegaly or Cushing's disease were excluded, and 
patients with GH replacement were not included. A crude meta-analysis, not 
considering differences in validity of the study designs, gives an overall 
Relative Risk (RR) of 1.47, with a relatively small 95% confidence interval of 
1.27-1.70. The aim of this critical review was to assess whether lacking 
validity in the design of one or several of these studies indicates that the 
true RR might be higher or lower than indicated by meta-analyses. A high 
frequency of cranial irradiation in one of the Swedish cohorts may explain part 
of the very high observed RR for cerebrovascular mortality, but there remained a 
40% risk increase for cardiac diseases that cannot be explained by irradiation. 
Some other validity problems, especially seen in the UK studies, will result in 
under-estimation of the true RR, but for others the direction of bias is 
uncertain due to lacking information in the original publications. According to 
our view, it is more probable that the observed overall 50% risk increase for 
vascular mortality is an under-estimation than an over-estimation of the true 
RR. This analysis is of a qualitative nature, and it is not possible to quantify 
to what extent the lacking validity may have affected the RR.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009901707125
PMID: 11141699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2000 Nov;48(9):825-31.

[Breast cancer: prognostic value of a dissemination index based on 4 components 
of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator system].

[Article in French]

Bouchet C(1), Hacène K, Martin PM, Becette V, Tubiana-Hulin M, Lasry S, Oglobine 
J, Spyratos F.

Author information:
(1)Département de biologie, centre René-Huguenin, 35, rue Dailly, 92211 
St-Cloud, France.

Among the proteases involved in the tumor invasion process, components of the 
plasminogen activator system (plasminogen activator type-urokinase uPA, its 
membrane receptor uPAR and its two inhibitors PAI-1 and PAI-2) appear to define 
high risk patients in primary breast cancer. As individual analysis of each 
component of the plasminogen activator system does not reflect the complex 
interactions between the different components, we studied the prognostic impact 
of a dissemination risk index combining the four variables. We found that this 
index was the most powerful prognostic factor, particularly in node-negative 
patients.

PMID: 11141918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2000 Nov 30;89(48):2011-6.

[Primary and adjuvant radiochemotherapy of pancreatic carcinoma].

[Article in German]

van Tienhoven G(1).

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, Universiteit van Amsterdam, Abteilung 
Strahlentherapie.

Pancreatic carcinoma is a type of cancer with an extremely poor prognosis. 
Surgery is the only curative option, and only possible in a minority of 
patients. After surgery the 5-year survival rate is approximately 25%. The role 
of radiochemotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced pancreatic cancer and 
in the adjuvant setting is discussed:--Locally advanced disease: Numerous 
studies are being performed to improve disease free survival in locally advanced 
disease. So far the combination of high dose radiotherapy and continuous 
infusion of 5-fluorouracil appears to be the best option. However, the potential 
gain is limited, and this should be weighed against the burden of treatment for 
patients with a very short life expectancy. New combinations are being 
investigated.--Adjuvant treatment: After radical surgery there is no standard 
adjuvant treatment. Four randomized trials were performed so far. In one of 
these only the role of chemotherapy was investigated. In the three other trials 
the radiochemotherapy applied was not optimal. Yet a trend for a survival 
benefit was seen in two of these trials, at least in the subgroup of pancreatic 
head cancer. One of the four trials appears to show a benefit from chemotherapy. 
These results warrant further investigation of the role of (optimal) 
radiochemotherapy, and the role of chemotherapy. In collaboration with the FFCD 
and GERCOR, the EORTC will start an international multicenter randomized phase 
III study comparing high dose radiotherapy and concomitant continuous infusion 
of 5-FU versus control after pancreatico-duodenectomy for pancreatic head cancer 
(22995/40992).

PMID: 11142140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. South Med J. 2000 Dec;93(12):1173-6. doi: 10.1097/00007611-200012000-00007.

Medical progress past, present, and future.

Hollis RS(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Mississippi, Jackson 39215, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-200012000-00007
PMID: 11142452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1399-403. doi: 10.1023/a:1026595525977.

Gemcitabine and cisplatin in the treatment of advanced or metastatic pancreatic 
cancer.

Heinemann V(1), Wilke H, Mergenthaler HG, Clemens M, König H, Illiger HJ, Arning 
M, Schalhorn A, Possinger K, Fink U.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Grosshadern, Medizinisches Klinik III, München, Germany. 
Volker.Heinemann@med3.med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: This phase II study was initiated to determine the efficacy and 
safety of gemcitabine plus cisplatin in patients with pancreatic cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 was given on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 
28-day schedule, and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1 and 15 to chemonaive patients 
with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer.
RESULTS: Of the 41 patients enrolled (median age 57, and 61% male), median 
Karnofsky performance status was 80%. Patients received a median of 4.2 cycles 
(range 1-11). In 35 evaluable patients, one complete response (CR) and three 
partial responses (PR) were observed, for an overall response rate of 11% (95% 
confidence interval (95% CI): 3.2% -26.7%). Stable disease (SD) > 3 months 
occurred in 20 (57%) patients; 6 survived > or = 1 year. Median time to 
progressive disease was 4.3 months (95% CI: 3.0-5.7 months). For all patients, 
median survival was 8.2 months (95% CI: 6.1-10.6 months) with a one-year 
survival rate of 27%. Therapy was well tolerated. Grade 3-4 neutropenia (no 
grade 3-4 infection), thrombocytopenia (no bleeding), nausea/vomiting, and 
alopecia were reported in 29%, 13%, and 2.6% of patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin is a moderately active 
treatment for patients with locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer 
without compromising tolerability.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026595525977
PMID: 11142479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1413-20. doi: 10.1023/a:1026527605389.

Schedule specific biochemical modulation of 5-fluorouracil in advanced 
colorectal cancer: a randomized study. GISCAD, IOR and collaborating centers.

Sobrero A(1), Zaniboni A, Frassineti GL, Aschele C, Guglielmi A, Giuliani R, 
Ravaioli A, Lanfranco C, Caroti C, Arnoldi E, Barni S, Gallo L, Pessi MA, Turci 
D, Cortesi E, Grossi F, Frontini L, Piazza E, Bruzzi P, Labianca R.

Author information:
(1)University of Udine, Department of Medical Oncology, Italy. sobrero@uniud.it

BACKGROUND: We have recently suggested that bolus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) may work 
via a RNA directed mechanism while continuous infusion 5-FU may kill cells via a 
thymidylate synthase related pathway. It may thus be possible to selectively 
modulate each schedule biochemically. We have compared an alternating regimen of 
bolus and continuous infusion 5-FU, selectively modulated for the schedule of 
administration, with modulated bolus 5-FU in advanced colorectal cancer 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred fourteen patients from nineteen Italian 
centers were randomized to the control arm consisting of biweekly cycles of MTX, 
200 mg/m2 on day 1, followed by bolus 5-FU 600 mg/m2 on day 2 and 6-S-leucovorin 
rescue, or to the experimental arm consisting of two biweekly cycles of the same 
regimen as in the control arm alternated to three weeks of continuous infusion 
5-FU (200 mg/m2 day) + weekly bolus 6-S-leucovorin, 20 mg/m2.
RESULTS: Nine CR and twenty-seven PR were obtained on one hundred eleven 
evaluable patients treated in experimental arm (RR = 32%, 95% confidence 
interval (95% CI): 24%-42%), while two CR and eleven PR were observed among one 
hundred three evaluable patients in control arm (RR = 13%, 95% CI: 7%-21%). WHO 
grade 3-4 toxicity occurred in 13% of cycles of experimental arm and in 8% of 
cycles in control arm. The PFS was significantly longer in experimental arm (6.2 
vs. 4.3 months, odds ratio 0.66, P = 0.003), while the overall survival was 
similar in both arms (14.8 months in experimental arm vs. 14.1 months in control 
arm); quality of life was similar as well. Eighty percent of patients receiving 
second-line chemotherapy in control arm were treated with continuous infusion 
5-FU.
CONCLUSIONS: Alternating, schedule-specific biochemical modulation of FU is more 
active than MTX --> 5-FU as first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. 
However, the overall survival was similar suggesting that alternating bolus and 
infusional 5-FU upfront may be as effective as giving them in sequence as first- 
and second-line treatment.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026527605389
PMID: 11142481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1421-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1026527004596.

Paclitaxel and carboplatin in combination with gemcitabine: a phase I-II trial 
in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Gruppo Studio Tumori 
Polmonari Veneto (GSTPV).

Favaretto A(1), Ceresoli GL, Paccagnella A, Barbieri F, Bearz A, Ghiotto C, 
Oniga F, Schiavon S, Frustaci S, Villa E.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Azienda Ospedaliera Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The combination of paclitaxel (P) and carboplatin (C) is an 
effective treatment for advanced NSCLC. Gemcitabine (G) is an active new drug. 
We planned a phase I study to find the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the PCG 
combination. A phase II study was subsequently conducted to evaluate the 
activity and toxicity of PCG.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-five patients entered the study. Twenty-eight had 
stage IIIA-B disease, 17 stage IV. In the phase I study, with a fixed dose of C 
at AUC = 6 on day 1, P was escalated using increments of 25 mg/m2 starting from 
175 mg/m2 on day 1 and G with increments of 200 mg/m2 starting from 800 mg/m2 on 
day 1 and 8.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients entered the phase I study. The MTD was reached at P 
200 mg/m2, C AUC = 6 and G 1000 mg/m2. Neutropenic fever and grade 3 diarrhea 
were the dose limiting toxicities. Thirty-one patients were treated in the phase 
II study with P 175 mg/m2, C AUC = 6 and G 1000 mg/m2. Response rate was 57% 
(68% in stage III and 47% in stage IV). Myelosuppression was the main toxicity, 
with grade 3-4 leukopenia occurring in 35% of cases. Grade 3 anemia was observed 
in 24% of cases and grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 34% of patients. 
Non-hematological toxicity was mild. Median survival and one-year actuarial 
survival were 20.5 months and 74% for stage III and 11.5 months and 47% for 
stage IV.
CONCLUSIONS: PCG is a promising regimen for treating advanced NSCLC. A phase III 
study comparing PCG to paclitaxel plus carboplatin in advanced NSCLC is ongoing. 
On the other hand, we are planning to introduce the PCG regimen in the treatment 
of stage II-III patients in the setting of a multimodality treatment.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026527004596
PMID: 11142482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1427-36. doi: 10.1023/a:1026548226770.

Interferon-alpha treatment in multiple myeloma: meta-analysis of 30 randomised 
trials among 3948 patients.

Fritz E(1), Ludwig H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine and Oncology, Wilhelminenspital, Vienna, 
Austria.

BACKGROUND: After two decades of interferon (IFN) treatment in myeloma patients 
and many randomised clinical trials, no definite proof of its benefits exists. 
This meta-analysis of all available relevant published data tests the 
differences between IFN and control arms in a large patient population and 
addresses the issue of cost-effectiveness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Meta-analysis was performed on 17 trials among 2333 
patients who received IFN-chemotherapy induction treatment or chemotherapy alone 
and on 13 trials among 1615 patients on IFN maintenance therapy or without 
treatment. Response rates and parameters of published Kaplan Meier relapse-free 
and overall survival curves were analysed.
RESULTS: Patients in IFN arms showed significantly better results in all 
investigated parameters: IFN-chemotherapy induction treatment yielded 6.6% 
higher response rates (2P < 0.002) as well as 4.8-month and 3.1-month 
prolongations of relapse-free (P < 0.01) and overall survival (P < 0.01), 
respectively. Interferon maintenance therapy lead to 4.4-month (P < 0.01) and 
7.0-month (P < 0.01) prolongations of relapse-free and overall survival, 
respectively. Meta-analysis of all IFN trials combined resulted in 4.6-month and 
3.7-month IFN-related gains in relapse-free and overall survival, respectively. 
As early as 6 and 12 months after the start of IFN treatment, percentages of 
cumulative relapse-free and overall survival were always significantly higher in 
IFN trial arms. IFN drug expenses for a one-year survival gain, as determined 
from AUCs of best-fitted Gompertz functions of IFN and control survival curves, 
were estimated to be US$42,482.28 for induction therapy and US$18,968.16 for 
maintenance treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Significantly superior outcomes were consistently found in IFN 
trial arms by meta-analysis of published data. These results are in accordance 
with a concomittantly conducted meta-analysis on individual patient data but 
were much easier to accrue. Taking all our results into account. i.e., the 
consistently significant, although limited, improvement of clinical outcomes and 
its acceptable cost-effectiveness, IFN treatment of patients with multiple 
myeloma seems worthwhile to be considered.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026548226770
PMID: 11142483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1471-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1026556119020.

Verapamil increases the survival of patients with anthracycline-resistant 
metastatic breast carcinoma.

Belpomme D(1), Gauthier S, Pujade-Lauraine E, Facchini T, Goudier MJ, Krakowski 
I, Netter-Pinon G, Frenay M, Gousset C, Marié FN, Benmiloud M, Sturtz F.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, H pital Boucicaut, Paris, France. 
artac.cerc@bcc.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND: Verapamil (VER), a potent calcium channel blocker, has been found to 
overcome P-gp-mediated multi-drug resistance (MDR) and to increase sensitivity 
to cytotoxic anticancer drugs in refractory myeloma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. 
The value of VER for treating solid tumors is still a matter for debate.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a prospective study in 99 patients with 
anthracycline-resistant metastatic breast carcinoma (MBC), to assess the 
clinical effect of oral VER given in association with chemotherapy. Instead of 
retreating patients with anthracycline, we used a partially noncross-resistant 
regimen (VF), combining vindesine (VDS) and 5-fluorouracil given as a continuous 
infusion (5-FU CI). Patients were randomly assigned to two cohorts. One cohort 
(47 patients) was treated in 28-day cycles, each involving the administration of 
VDS (3 mg/m2 i.v. bolus on days 1 and 10) and 5-FU CI, (400 mg/m2/day i.v. from 
day 1 to day 10). The other cohort (52 patients) received the same VDS and 5-FU 
treatment and an additional oral VER treatment (240 mg/day divided in 2 doses), 
from day 1 to day 28 of each cycle. Patients were treated until progression.
RESULTS: The treatment was well tolerated and no side effects that could be 
attributed to VER were detected. Patients treated with VER had longer overall 
survival (OS) (median OS: 323 vs. 209 days, P = 0.036) and a higher response 
rate (27% vs. 11%, P = 0.04) than those not given VER. Progression-free survival 
(PFS) was also longer but the difference was not statistically significant 
(median PFS: 4.6 and 2.7 months for the VER and non-VER groups respectively, P = 
0.6).
CONCLUSIONS: This clinical trial demonstrates that a chemosensitizer, such as 
VER, can increase the survival of MBC patients with acquired anthracycline 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026556119020
PMID: 11142488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1477-83. doi: 10.1023/a:1026520812351.

Evaluation of oxaliplatin dose intensity in bimonthly leucovorin and 48-hour 
5-fluorouracil continuous infusion regimens (FOLFOX) in pretreated metastatic 
colorectal cancer. Oncology Multidisciplinary Research Group (GERCOR).

Maindrault-Goebel F(1), de Gramont A, Louvet C, André T, Carola E, Gilles V, 
Lotz JP, Tournigand C, Mabro M, Molitor JL, Artru P, Izrael V, Krulik M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne-Oncologice, H pital Saint-Antoine, France.

BACKGROUND: Studies of bimonthly 48-hour regimens of high-dose leucovorin (LV) 
(FOLinic acid), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) by continuous infusion combined with 
OXaliplatin (FOLFOX) in pretreated patients with metastatic colorectal cancer 
suggest that oxaliplatin dose intensity is an important prognostic factor for 
response rate and progression-free survival (PFS). To help define the optimal 
dose schedule for oxaliplatin in pretreated metastatic colorectal cancer, we 
retrospectively analyzed data from three phase II studies using different FOLFOX 
regimens (FOLFOX2, 3 and 6).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data on 126/161 patients were analyzed. FOLFOX2 included 
oxaliplatin 100 mg/m2; FOLFOX3, 85 mg/m2; and FOLFOX6, 100 mg/m2 (added to a 
simplified LV-5-FU regimen), all as two-hour infusions. A total of 47 patients 
received low dose intensity oxaliplatin (LDI: < or = 85 mg/m2/2 weeks) and 79 
patients high dose intensity oxaliplatin (HDI: > 85 mg/m2/2 weeks).
RESULTS: Objective responses occurred in 31 (39%) HDI patients and 9 (19%) LDI 
patients (P = 0.03). Median PFS was 28 weeks, with 52% of HDI patients 
progression free at 6 months, and 26 weeks with 36% of LDI patients progression 
free at six months (P = 0.02). Increased oxaliplatin dose intensity was not 
associated with increased neurotoxicity or other toxicities. FOLFOX are among 
the most effective regimens for treating LV-5-FU-resistant metastatic colorectal 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that oxaliplatin dose intensification 
significantly improves response rate and PFS in pretreated metastatic disease 
without increasing severe toxicity.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026520812351
PMID: 11142489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1485-91. doi: 10.1023/a:1026789232033.

A new serologic index for low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma based on initial 
CA125 and LDH serum levels.

Benboubker L(1), Valat C, Linassier C, Cartron G, Delain M, Bout M, Fetissof F, 
Lefranq T, Lamagnere JP, Colombat P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, H pital Bretonneau, Tours, France. 
l.Benboubker@bretonneau.chu-tours.fr

BACKGROUND: Serum CA125 (sCA125) was recently reported to be of clinical value 
in the staging and follow-up of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). This 
report aims to investigate the prognostic value of a new serologic index 
combining sCA125 and LDH serum levels.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty-seven patients were studied, 
sixty-three with histologically proven low-grade NHL, and seventy-four with a 
high-grade subtype.
RESULTS: sCA125 and LDH levels were elevated in more than one third of patients. 
sCA125 was more frequently increased than LDH in low-grade NHL. In this group, 
complete remission (CR) was achieved in 87, 45, and 0% (P = <2 x 10(-6)) of 
patients with normal sCA125 and LDH serum levels (Low-risk group), one parameter 
increased (Intermediate-risk group), and increased sCA125 and LDH serum levels 
(high-risk group), respectively. The estimated five-year overall survival was 
97%, 67% and 22% for low, intermediate, and high-risk groups, respectively. This 
combination was the only parameter predictive of RFS and OS in multivariate 
analysis (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In this study the combination of s-LDH and sCA125 levels (normal 
vs. abnormal) was found to be an important prognostic factor in low-grade 
lymphoma and may be used in the selection of appropriate therapeutic approaches 
for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026789232033
PMID: 11142490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Epidemiol Biostat. 2000;5(5):315-20.

Characterising life-span variability in a population using the life-table-based 
Lorenz-curve analysis.

Lee WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: 'Life expectancy' (LE) is a health-status indicator in widespread 
use. However, LE is an index of central location, but not of dispersion. It 
cannot describe inter-individual variation in the life-span. This author 
proposes using the Gini coefficient, a summary index of the Lorenz curve, for 
characterising life-span variability. Like the LE, the proposed index is also 
based on a lifetable.
METHOD: The method is a nonparametric approach that does not make specific 
assumptions about mortality rates.
RESULTS: The author uses vital statistics from Taiwan as a demonstration and 
finds that the method provides information crucial to the understanding of the 
epidemiologic transitions of the past 20 years (Gini decreases from 0.1320 to 
0.1130). It also quantifies the impacts of elimination of some selected causes 
of death in Taiwan.
CONCLUSIONS: It is recommended that Gini be routinely compiled in official vital 
statistics, along with the LE.

PMID: 11142607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Salud Publica Mex. 1999 Sep-Oct;41(5):376-80.

[Mortality ranking in the norwest of Mexico according to the years of productive 
life lost index].

[Article in Spanish]

Rascón-Pacheco RA(1), Rivera-Icedo BM, Santillana-Macedo MA, Romero-Téllez MB.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación Epidemiológica y en Servicios de Salud, Instituto 
Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), Hermosillo, Sonora, México. 
arascon@son1.telmexnet.mx

OBJECTIVE: To determine the order of death causes in the Northwestern states of 
Mexico using the years of potential life lost (YPLL) index.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The 1995 INEGI mortality data base for the states of Baja 
California, Baja California Sur, Sinaloa and Sonora was used to estimate the 
YPLL index. The method by Bustamante et al. was followed to calculate the cause 
of death, with ponderation of the potential investment, production and 
consumption of each individual, according to the age of death.
RESULTS: A ranking of cause of death resulted from the application of the YPLL 
index. At present, in the four states, the group with the greatest potential 
loss is that between 5 and 14 years of age, and the rate is higher in Baja 
California than in Sonora. The group of "Perinatal problems as a cause of death" 
ranked first in three states and in the fourth, Sinaloa, the group of "Homicide 
and lesions caused intentionally by another person" ranked first.
CONCLUSIONS: This work highlights the importance of the YLPP with economic loss 
ponderation index to discriminate death causes among states in a region with 
apparently homogeneous mortality.

PMID: 11142832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Neurosurg. 2000 Dec;93 Suppl 3:32-6. doi: 10.3171/jns.2000.93.supplement.

Gamma knife treatment for multiple metastatic brain tumors compared with 
whole-brain radiation therapy.

Serizawa T(1), Iuchi T, Ono J, Saeki N, Osato K, Odaki M, Ushikubo O, Hirai S, 
Sato M, Matsuda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Neurology, Chiba Cardiovascular Center, 
Ichihara, Japan. QWT03231@nifty.ne.jp

OBJECT: The purpose of this retrospective study was to compare the effectiveness 
of gamma knife radiosurgery (GKS) for multiple cerebral metastases with that of 
whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT).
METHODS: Ninety-six consecutive patients with cerebral metastases from nonsmall 
cell lung cancer were treated between 1990 and 1999. The entry criteria were the 
presence of between one and 10 multiple brain lesions at initial diagnosis, no 
surgically inaccessible tumors with more than a 30-mm diameter, no carcinomatous 
meningitis, and more than 2 months of life expectancy. The patients were divided 
into two groups: the GKS group (62 patients) and the WBRT group (34 patients). 
In the GKS group, large lesions (> 30 mm) were removed surgically and all other 
small lesions (< or = 30 mm) were treated by GKS. New distant lesions were 
treated by repeated GKS without prophylactic WBRT. In the WBRT group, the 
patients were treated by the traditional combined therapy of WBRT and surgery. 
In both groups, chemotherapy was administered according to the primary 
physician's protocol. The two groups did not differ in terms of age, sex, 
initial Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) score, type, lesion number, and size 
of lesion, systemic control, and chemotherapy. Neurological survival and 
qualitative survival of the GKS group were longer than those of the WBRT group. 
In multivariate analysis, significant poor prognostic factors were systemically 
uncontrolled patients, WBRT group, and poor initial KPS score.
CONCLUSIONS: Gamma knife radiosurgery without prophylactic WBRT could be a 
primary choice of treatment for patients with as many as 10 cerebral metastases 
from nonsmall cell cancer.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2000.93.supplement
PMID: 11143259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Med Law. 2000;19(3):635-55.

Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace: a theoretical model, 
combining quality of life and years of life, which offers clues for the proper 
time to die with dignity.

Dimoliatis I.

"Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word" 
said Saint Symeon (New Testament, Luke 2, 29). But, which is this day? How can 
we know it? In this article we re-examine theoretically, using a "thought 
experiment", the ancient dilemma of "when is the proper time to die". It is a 
contribution to the international debate on quality of life, quality of death, 
and dying with dignity. Quality is defined as a variable, which incorporates 
every other dimension of life except time (except years of life). It is accepted 
that a heuristic definition of life is the product of duration and quality, and, 
since quality can be negative, we accept the idea that life can be negative as 
well. Given that, the proper time to die in dignity is when life, from being 
positive becomes negative. After that we examine the individual as a member and 
part of the society in which he belongs and we conclude that negative life can 
be prolonged only be consuming positive life of other members of the society; 
this means that negative life in a hypothetical one-member society cannot exist; 
a critical population size is necessary. Finally, rising to the society level, 
and having defined society's life as the sum of every person's life, we 
discovered that preserving the negative life of some people can only be possible 
by consuming the positive life of other members of this society or/and other 
society (ies) or/and of the whole biosphere. Now the question is raised whether 
this is ethical or not, whether it is a human right and, if so, whose?

PMID: 11143895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Joint Bone Spine. 2000;67(5):401-7.

Marfan syndrome and fibrillin disorders.

Le Parc JM(1), Molcard S, Tubach F, Boileau C, Jondeau G, Muti C, Chevallier B, 
Pisella PJ.

Author information:
(1)Service de rhumatologie, h pital Ambroise-Paré, UFR Paris-Ouest, université 
Rene-Descartes, Boulogne, France.

Marfan syndrome is the second most common inherited connective tissue disorder 
after osteogenesis imperfecta. Musculoskeletal abnormalities are at the 
forefront of the clinical picture and count among the major diagnostic criteria 
for Marfan syndrome, together with cardiovascular and ocular system involvement. 
Early diagnosis is of the utmost importance since preventive measures 
significantly increase life expectancy and prevent the occurrence of impairments 
and disabilities. Marfan syndrome is due to mutations within the fibrillin-1 
gene, which is the main protein of the microfibril network. Microfibrils play a 
crucial role in the trophicity and function of elastic tissue. Multidisciplinary 
management of the patients and their families is vital.

PMID: 11143906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Arq Gastroenterol. 2000 Apr-Jun;37(2):133-43. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-28032000000200012.

[Hepatocellular carcinoma. Part 2. Treatment].

[Article in Portuguese]

Conte VP(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Gastroenterologia da Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo, SP.

Recent improvements on the therapeutical management of hepatocellular carcinoma 
are revised with special attention to evaluate the role of surgery for the 
disease. Considering that definitive surgical intervention is not feasible in 
most cases because of extreme tumor extension, multiplicity of tumor foci, and 
associated advanced liver cirrhosis at the time of diagnosis, others forms of 
treatment are listed, such as transcatheterarterial chemoembolization, 
percutaneous ethanol and acetic acid injections, and chemotherapy only to a 
small portion of patients with no indication for standard treatments. The 
emerging role of retinoic acid metabolism blocking agents, was examined and may 
offer a significant new potential treatment for cancer, inclusive the 
possibility of combining other anticancer drugs with exogenous retinoids or 
modulation of endogenous retinoids as a real opportunity to advance our ability 
to treat or prevent human cancer effectively Octreotide, nitrosamine and other 
drugs are analyzed and is concluded that improves survival and is a valuable 
alternative in the treatment of inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma. The 
potential role of intersticial laser coagulation for patients with irresectable 
hepatic tumors was investigated, and in terms of experience, it has now been 
developed sufficiently to study its effect on these patients survival. The 
homeostatic control of angiogenesis and its influences on the tumor growth and 
for migration of metastatic cells, was focused in this concise review, given 
that hepatocytes are the source of much of the precursor pool, regulation of 
angiogenesis may be regarded as a new liver function with important consequences 
for tissue repair and cancer. Early hepatocellular carcinoma and its recognition 
in routine clinical practice contributes to improved patients survival. 
Recombinant-Interferon-alpha therapy surely prevents, the development of 
cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma in about one-third of patients, with 
chronic hepatitis C, with sustained response. Finally, in individuals with 
life-threatening liver disease, such as those with cirrhosis and hepatocellular 
carcinoma, the liver transplantation, must be considered, besides controversial, 
however, with increasing experience the results of the procedure in these 
patients have improved, and may offer a better long-term survival than liver 
resection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-28032000000200012
PMID: 11144017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2000 Dec;4(12 Suppl 2):S127-33.

The cost-effectiveness of screening for latent tuberculosis infection.

Taylor Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. zxt0@cdc.gov

PMID: 11144542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Lancet. 2000 Dec 16;356(9247):2103. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74317-8.

Gene-environment interaction and human lifespan.

Wildner M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74317-8
PMID: 11145526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2000 Dec;11(6):403-9. doi: 10.1006/scdb.2000.0193.

Adaptive evolution of larvae and life cycles.

McEdward LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Florida, PO Box 118525, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611-8525, USA. mcedward@zoo.ufl.edu

The larval patterns of marine invertebrates pose intriguing questions for both 
evolutionary and developmental biologists. However, combined investigations have 
been rare. Quantitative models analyze the selective factors that drive 
evolutionary change in larval nutrition and timing of metamorphosis. 
Developmental studies describe the morphogenesis characterizing ancestral and 
derived larval patterns. Rigorous evolutionary analysis of the transition to 
derived modes of development is lacking and detailed developmental and 
ecological data are needed to test and refine theoretical models. A major 
challenge facing studies of life cycle evolution is the elucidation of the 
genetic structure and covariance of important developmental and larval traits.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/scdb.2000.0193
PMID: 11145868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 2000 Dec 28;85(1-2):251-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0169-328x(00)00266-7.

Loss of base excision repair in aging rat neurons and its restoration by DNA 
polymerase beta.

Rao KS(1), Annapurna VV, Raji NS, Harikrishna T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad, 
Hyderabad-500046, India. ksrs1@uohyd.ernet.in

Synthetic staggered oligodeoxynucleotide duplexes are formed by annealing a 
5'-32P-labeled 14-mer with four different 21-mers. These duplexes have either a 
correct or mismatched base pair at 3'-end of the primer. With these model 
template primers the ability of neuronal extracts, obtained from rats of 
different ages, to extend the primer to the predicted length was tested. While 
the neuronal extracts of all ages were able to degrade the 14-mer to shorter 
lengths, extension of the primers in general and in particular, the mismatched, 
is achieved only feebly by the young and adult neuronal extracts and 
undetectable with old neuronal extracts. The possibility of restoring the lost 
activity by supplementing the neuronal extracts with pure DNA polymerases was 
examined. Of the three polymerases tested (calf thymus alpha polymerase, E. coli 
DNA polymerase I and rat liver DNA polymerase beta) only polymerase beta gave 
consistent and encouraging results although the extension was slow and 
distributive in nature and mismatched primers were extended much less 
efficiently than the correctly paired primer. However, significantly improved 
extension, including those of mismatched primers, was achieved by prior removal 
of mismatched bases in a preincubation with just the neuronal extracts 
(3'-5'exonuclease activity) followed by extension by the added polymerase beta 
and dNTPs in the presence of Mn(2+) instead of the usual Mg(2+). These results 
are taken to indicate that the activity of polymerase beta in brain cells is 
compromised with age and that this deficit can be corrected in vitro by the 
addition of pure recombinant rat liver polymerase beta under appropriate 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-328x(00)00266-7
PMID: 11146128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Haematologica. 2001 Jan;86(1):8-12.

What is changing in the natural history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia?

Molica S(1), Levato D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologia e Oncologia Clinica, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Pugliese-Ciaccio, viale Pio X, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy. smolica@libero.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: In the last few years there has been a trend towards 
an improvement in overall survival of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL). Studies based on tumor registries of the general population or including 
patients referred to hematologic institutions have analyzed reasons for these 
changes. However, results need to be validated on independent series.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated 518 CLL patients diagnosed at 
our institution between January 1970 and December 1998. In this cohort of 
patients we looked at characteristics affecting natural history such as age and 
sex distribution, stage at diagnosis, survival probability and impact of the 
disease status on the actuarial survival. Trends in these variables were 
analyzed after splitting the whole series into three groups according to the 
period in which the diagnosis was made. Group I consisted of 75 patients 
diagnosed between 1970 and 1979, group II consisted of 149 patients diagnosed in 
the period 1980--1989, group III was composed of 293 patients diagnosed between 
1991 and 1998.
RESULTS: Age and sex distribution did not reflect different periods of 
diagnosis. The proportion of patients in whom diagnosis was established in low 
clinical stage (stage A) was higher in the group III (72%) than in groups I or 
II (26.3% and 50.3%, respectively) (p < 0.0001). Differences in the stage 
distribution affected life-expectancy which was longer for patients diagnosed in 
the nineties (median survival, 93 months) than in those diagnosed in the 
eighties (median survival, 54 months) or in the seventies (median survival, 38 
months) (p < 0.0001). Finally, survival analyses by stage showed an improvement 
of life-expectancy when dealing with patients of high risk category (p =0.005).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: CLL patients diagnosed in the last decade enjoy 
the best clinical outcome, mostly as a result of a greater proportion of 
patients in the low-risk clinical stage and a relatively longer survival of the 
high risk group. It is not clear whether these changes represent true 
modifications of the natural history of CLL. At the beginning of the third 
millennium CLL continues to be a fatal disease with a significant impact on 
life-expectancy.

PMID: 11146563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Jan 8;161(1):111-20. doi: 10.1001/archinte.161.1.111.

Cost-effectiveness of combined outreach for the pneumococcal and influenza 
vaccines.

Weaver M(1), Krieger J, Castorina J, Walls M, Ciske S.

Author information:
(1)mweaver@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis as part of a randomized, 
controlled trial of a community-based outreach initiative to promote the 
pneumococcal and influenza vaccines for people aged 65 years or older.
METHODS: The analysis was based on primary data from the trial on the increase 
in vaccination rates and cost of the intervention, and published estimates of 
the effectiveness of the vaccines and cost of treatment. We performed partial 
stochastic analyses based on the confidence intervals (CIs) of the effectiveness 
of the intervention and of the vaccines.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness ratio of the combined-outreach initiative as 
implemented was $35 486 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), whereas it was 
$53 547 per QALY for the pneumococcal vaccine and $130 908 per QALY for the 
influenza vaccine. In partial stochastic analyses, the quasi-CI of the 
combined-outreach initiative ranged from $15 145 to $152 311 per QALY. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio of the intervention targeted to people who had never 
received the pneumococcal vaccine or who had not received the influenza vaccine 
in the previous year was $11 771 per QALY, with a quasi-CI of $3330 to $46 095 
per QALY. With the use of the projected cost of replicating the intervention, 
the cost-effectiveness ratio was $26 512 per QALY for the initiative as 
implemented and $7843 per QALY for a targeted initiative.
CONCLUSIONS: The community-based outreach initiative to promote the pneumococcal 
and influenza vaccines was reasonably cost-effective. Further improvements in 
cost-effectiveness could be made by targeting the initiative or through lessons 
learned during the first year that would reduce the cost of the initiative in 
subsequent years.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.1.111
PMID: 11146707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Arch Surg. 2001 Jan;136(1):105-12. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.136.1.105.

Hypoxic pelvic perfusion with mitomycin C using a simplified balloon-occlusion 
technique in the treatment of patients with unresectable locally recurrent 
rectal cancer.

Guadagni S(1), Fiorentini G, Palumbo G, Valenti M, Russo F, Cantore M, Deraco M, 
Vaglini M, Amicucci G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy. 
guadagni@rdn.it

HYPOTHESIS: To evaluate the role of hypoxic pelvic perfusion in providing 
therapeutic options for palliation without relevant complications in a 
homogeneous group of patients with unresectable locally recurrent rectal cancer 
who are nonresponders or have disease progression after the standard treatments.
DESIGN: Nonrandomized and noncontrolled phase II experimental study.
SETTING: University hospital, L'Aquila, and the National Cancer Institute, 
Naples and Milan, Italy.
PATIENTS: Eleven patients had symptomatic unresectable pelvic recurrent rectal 
cancer. The mean +/- SD product of the 2 maximum perpendicular diameters of the 
recurrent cancer was 24.2 +/- 11.0 cm(2) (range, 10-48 cm(2)). Tumor fixation to 
the pelvic side walls or proximal sacrum were the main criteria for 
unresectability. All patients were free from extrapelvic disease and had a life 
expectancy longer than 3 months.
INTERVENTION: Patients were submitted to one course of pelvic perfusion with 
mitomycin C (MMC) (25 mg/m(2)) by means of a simplified balloon occlusion 
technique. A pharmacokinetic evaluation of the procedure was also performed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Response rate and time to disease progression were the 
primary endpoints; overall survival was the secondary endpoint.
RESULTS: Mean +/- SD value of the ratios of pelvic MMC area under the plasma 
concentration curve (0 to 20 minutes) (AUC(0-20)) to systemic MMC AUC(0-20) was 
13.30 +/- 6.52. During the procedures there were no technical, hemodynamic, or 
vascular complications, and no deaths occurred during surgery or in the 
postoperative period. The response rate was 36.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
6.5%-66.1%). Pain response rate was 45.4% (95% CI, 16.6%-76.2%). Median survival 
was 12.2 months (range, 5.7-19.5 months). Median time to disease progression was 
6 months (range, 3-8 months). Two-year overall survival was 9.1%.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypoxic pelvic perfusion with MMC is a safe and good palliative 
treatment for patients with unresectable locally recurrent rectal cancer. 
Further studies are necessary to establish if a different sequence in the 
multimodular treatment of these patients could be more useful.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.136.1.105
PMID: 11146790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Bus Health. 2000 Fall;18(10 Suppl A):4-6.

Real men don't eat quiche (or go to doctors).

Reese S.

PMID: 11146852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. J Allied Health. 2000 Winter;29(4):189-95.

The challenge of expanding health benefits for the aged.

Elwood TW(1).

Author information:
(1)Association of Schools of Allied Health Professions, Washington, DC, USA.

PMID: 11147184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2000 Dec;14(6):1353-66, x. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70190-8.

Adult acute lymphocytic leukemia study testing chemotherapy and autologous and 
allogeneic transplantation. A follow-up report of the French protocol LALA 87.

Thiebaut A(1), Vernant JP, Degos L, Huguet FR, Reiffers J, Sebban C, Lepage E, 
Thomas X, Fière D.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

The French protocol LALA 87 was designed to compare three different 
postinduction strategies in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL): 
chemotherapy, autologous transplantation, and allogeneic transplantation. This 
trial demonstrated a significant superiority of allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) in high-risk ALL patients. Similarly, there was a trend in 
favor of autologous BMT over chemotherapy in those same patients. Allogeneic BMT 
was not superior to autologous BMT or chemotherapy in less aggressive leukemia 
(standard-risk ALL). Further improvements are warranted in the treatment of 
adult ALL. The authors' current ongoing study is stratifying patients to 
allocate them to regimens with risk-adapted treatment intensity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70190-8
PMID: 11147227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Cancer. 2000 Dec 1;89(11):2266-73.

How should patients with hepatocellular carcinoma be staged? Validation of a new 
prognostic system.

Farinati F(1), Rinaldi M, Gianni S, Naccarato R.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra Malattie Apparato Digerente, Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche e 
Gastroenterologiche Università di Padova, Italy. farinati@ux1.unipd.it

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
in cirrhosis is hard to predict, making it difficult to decide whether a certain 
treatment is indicated and what to say to the patient regarding prognosis. A new 
score recently has been proposed, which includes the parameters involved in the 
Child-Pugh stage, plus macroscopic tumor morphology, alpha-fetoprotein levels, 
and the presence or absence of portal thrombosis. The score has been validated 
in internal control series, but its general applicability has yet to be 
confirmed. The authors compared the discriminatory ability of the Cancer of the 
Liver Italian Program (CLIP) score with those of the Okuda and TNM staging 
systems and the Child-Pugh classification in a group of cirrhotic patients with 
HCC, diagnosed and followed up by their unit.
METHODS: One hundred fifty-four patients with histologically ascertained HCC in 
cirrhosis were recruited (median age, 62.5 years; male/female ratio, 122/32) and 
prospectively followed up. Staging was performed at the baseline using the 
Child-Pugh, Okuda, TNM, and CLIP systems.
RESULTS: The CLIP score was able to predict survival better than the Okuda or 
TNM staging system, as confirmed by the Kaplan-Meier comparison of survival 
curves and by the Cox regression analysis, with a median survival rate of 31, 
27, 13, 8, 2, and 2 months in patients with CLIP Stages 0, I, II, III, IV, and 
V-VI, respectively. The Child-Pugh classification performed as well as the 
Okuda. The predictive capacity of CLIP score was confirmed in the subgroup of 
patients undergoing chemoembolization. Overall, the survival rate in the 
authors' series was higher than predicted on the basis of previous reports.
CONCLUSIONS: The CLIP score, which is based on simple features of the patient 
and of the tumor, can accurately identify patients with different prognoses, 
particularly in the early phases of HCC, thus representing a useful tool in the 
management of the disease and of the affected patient.

PMID: 11147597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Cancer. 2000 Dec 1;89(11 Suppl):2489-93. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20001201)89:11+<2489::aid-cncr29>3.3.co;2-5.

Cost-effectiveness of lung cancer screening in Japan.

Okamoto N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, Yokohama, Japan. 
okamoto@gancen.asahi.yokohama.jp

BACKGROUND: Because the mortality rate from lung cancer is increasing sharply in 
Japan, lung cancer screening is being performed actively to assure early 
diagnosis and early treatment. However, its effectiveness is not clear, because 
it is extremely difficult to diagnose early microcarcinoma of the lungs (< 1 cm 
in greatest dimension) with the indirect X-rays that are used in mass screening. 
Therefore, the authors compared differences in the study population by gender 
and by age and economic class with the present method for mass screening of lung 
cancer as well as with computed tomography (CT) screening from the standpoint of 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of lung cancer screening was analyzed using the 
deterministic mathematical model developed by T. Iinuma. The total cost for one 
life saved (Y/N) and the total cost for the mean life expectancy of a patient 
saved (Y/NT) were compared for each three cases: mass screening of the type used 
in 1983, mass screening of the present type, and mass screening using CT in 
1993.
RESULTS: For the present mass screening method, the results show that costs are 
reduced when patients are males age - 55 years and females age > or = 65 years. 
There was almost no difference between 1983 and 1993, and the percentage 
increased slightly with the introduction of CT. The cost-effectiveness was 
observed using two values, Y/N and Y/NT. The cost of screening in 1993 for 
females age < or = 50 years was lower than that in 1983, but there was no major 
difference in males from the other age groups. The Y/NT value became even lower 
when CT was introduced.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the present method used in lung cancer 
screening is cheaper, but its effectiveness is also low; and, although the cost 
of screening by CT is higher than that of the present screening method, it is 
much more effective. Lung cancer screening by CT should become the most 
appropriate screening method with respect to cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20001201)89:11+<2489::aid-cncr29>3.3.co;2-5
PMID: 11147633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Annu Rev Psychol. 2001;52:1-26. doi: 10.1146/annurev.psych.52.1.1.

Social cognitive theory: an agentic perspective.

Bandura A(1).

Author information:
