(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305-2131, USA. bandura@psych.stanford.edu

The capacity to exercise control over the nature and quality of one's life is 
the essence of humanness. Human agency is characterized by a number of core 
features that operate through phenomenal and functional consciousness. These 
include the temporal extension of agency through intentionality and forethought, 
self-regulation by self-reactive influence, and self-reflectiveness about one's 
capabilities, quality of functioning, and the meaning and purpose of one's life 
pursuits. Personal agency operates within a broad network of sociostructural 
influences. In these agentic transactions, people are producers as well as 
products of social systems. Social cognitive theory distinguishes among three 
modes of agency: direct personal agency, proxy agency that relies on others to 
act on one's behest to secure desired outcomes, and collective agency exercised 
through socially coordinative and interdependent effort. Growing transnational 
embeddedness and interdependence are placing a premium on collective efficacy to 
exercise control over personal destinies and national life.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.psych.52.1.1
PMID: 11148297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. J Aging Soc Policy. 2000;11(4):7-13. doi: 10.1300/J031v11n04_03.

Later-life employment.

Encel S(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Policy Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia. S.Encel@unsw.edu.au

DOI: 10.1300/J031v11n04_03
PMID: 11148832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. J Health Econ. 2001 Jan;20(1):131-9. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00073-4.

Is there a meaningful definition of the value of a statistical life?

Johansson PO(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Box 6501, SE-113 83 Stockholm, Sweden. 
hepoj@hhs.se

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2002 Jan;21(1):169-75; discussion 177-8.

A definition of the value of a statistical life is derived. This definition has 
a meaningful interpretation in terms of the monetary value of expected present 
value utility if consumption is age-independent. In all other cases, empirical 
estimates of the value of a statistical life are biased estimators of the 
monetary counterpart to expected present value utility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00073-4
PMID: 11148868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2000 Oct;41(5):753-8.

Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a 
short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable 
alternative for limb-threatening ischemia?

Rijbroek A(1), Vermeulen EG, Wisselink W, Rauwerda JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. A.Rijbroek@azvu.nl

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to analyse the results of infragenual 
arterial revascularisation using semiclosed endarterectomy of the superficial 
femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in patients with critical leg 
ischemia and insufficient venous material for a straightforward femorocrural 
reconstruction.
METHODS: From December 1990 through December 1998 thirty patients were studied 
(22 males and 8 females; mean age 65 years, range 31-92 years). The mean 
follow-up was 26 months (range 1-96 months). Cumulative primary patency and limb 
salvage rates were calculated according to life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The cumulative primary patency was 60.3% at 1 year and 48.4% at 3 
years. The limb salvage rate was 68.6% at 1 and at 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with limb-threatening ischemia and lack of venous 
material for a straightforward venous femorocrural bypass, semi-closed 
endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short 
popliteo-crural bypass provides a good alternative.

PMID: 11149643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2001 Feb;12(1):47-57. doi: 
10.1097/00055735-200102000-00009.

Lens implant selection with absence of capsular support.

Dick HB(1), Augustin AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johannes-Gutenberg-University, Langenbeckstr. 1, 
55131 Mainz, Germany. bdick@mail.uni-mainz.de

If contact lens or spectacle correction is not viable, little debate exists that 
the secondary placement of an intra-ocular lens (IOL) is the method of choice in 
the absence of capsular support. The choice of IOL mainly depends on the 
preoperative status of the eye (eg, aphakia in children) and the selected 
location for the implant. Theoretically, there are several IOL implantation 
approaches in cases without capsular support: an angle-supported anterior 
chamber (AC) IOL, an iris-fixated ACIOL, an iris-sutured or iris-fixated 
posterior chamber (PC) IOL and a transsclerally sutured PCIOL. No consensus 
exists, however, on the indications as well as on the relative safety and 
efficacy of these different options. Implantation of modern ACIOLs, like the 
refined open-loop or iris-fixated claw (toric) ACIOLs, have regained popularity 
and provide a valuable alternative to sutured PCIOLs. However, in the absence of 
capsular support, the transsclerally sutured PCIOLs offer numerous advantages 
for certain eyes. Because of its anatomic location, the sutured PCIOL is more 
appropriate for eyes with compromised cornea, peripheral anterior synechiae, 
shallow anterior chamber, or glaucoma. Moreover, sutured PCIOLs are appropriate 
if the patient with aphakia is young or has a life expectancy of 10 years or 
more. Recent technological advances, including PCIOL with iris diaphragm for 
aniridia, toric ACIOLs, and small-incision surgery with foldable, transsclerally 
sutured IOLs, seem to further improve clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-200102000-00009
PMID: 11150081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Ophthalmology. 2001 Jan;108(1):172-8. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(00)00449-8.

Iris melanoma: risk factors for metastasis in 169 consecutive patients.

Shields CL(1), Shields JA, Materin M, Gershenbaum E, Singh AD, Smith A.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify risk factors that predict distant metastases of iris 
malignant melanoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
PARTICIPANTS: The participants included 169 consecutive patients with 
microscopically confirmed iris malignant melanoma managed on the Oncology 
Service at Wills Eye Hospital between 1974 and 1999.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measure was the development of distant 
tumor metastasis. Cox proportional regression models were used to calculate the 
risk of eventual metastatic spread.
RESULTS: Of 1054 patients referred with suspicious iris melanocytic tumors (rule 
out malignant melanoma) over a 25-year period, 169 patients (16%) had 
microscopically proven iris melanoma, and the remainder (84%) had clinically 
diagnosed iris nevus. Of the patients with iris melanoma, the mean age at the 
time of diagnosis was 43 years (median, 45 years; range, 1-90 years). All 
patients were Caucasian. The mean tumor base was 6 mm (median, 5 mm; range, 1-17 
mm), and mean tumor thickness was 2 mm (median, 2 mm; range, 1-4 mm). The mean 
number of clock hours of tumor involvement in the iris was four, tumor seeding 
on the iris was four, and tumor seeding into the anterior chamber angle was 
four. Extraocular extension was present in 10 eyes (6%). The tumor management 
consisted of local resection (iridectomy, iridocyclectomy, or 
iridocyclogoniectomy) in 102 patients (60%), enucleation in 51 (30%), plaque 
radiotherapy in 9 (5%), and observation in 7 patients (4%). Metastasis developed 
in nine patients (5%). Using Kaplan-Meier life table analysis, metastasis was 
found in 3% of patients at 5 years, 5% at 10 years, and 10% at 20 years. The 
clinical factors at initial evaluation predictive of eventual metastasis from 
iris melanoma included increasing age at diagnosis (P = 0.03), elevated 
intraocular pressure (P = 0.03), posterior tumor margin at angle or iris root 
(versus midzone) (P = 0.02), extraocular extension (P: = 0.02), and prior 
surgical treatment of the tumor elsewhere before referral (versus observation) 
(P = 0.006). The method of management (resection, radiotherapy, or enucleation) 
did not have an impact on metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Microscopically confirmed iris melanoma demonstrates distant 
metastasis in 5% of patients at 10 years follow-up. Metastases are more likely 
to develop in those patients who are older and show tumor features of iris 
root/angle location with elevated intraocular pressure and extraocular 
extension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(00)00449-8
PMID: 11150284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Blood Purif. 2001;19(2):189-94. doi: 10.1159/000046939.

A simplified method for adequate hemodialysis.

Kleophas W(1), Backus G.

Author information:
(1)Dialysezentrum Karlstrasse, DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany. Kleophas@nierenpraxis.de

DOI: 10.1159/000046939
PMID: 11150808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000;18 Suppl 1:33-45. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200018001-00006.

Is there a link between pharmaceutical consumption and improved health in OECD 
countries?

Miller RD Jr(1), Frech HE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Naval Analyses, 4401 Ford Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22302, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine whether there is a 
measurable health return associated with high pharmaceutical consumption in a 
sample of developed countries.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The study focused on the production of health, 
disaggregating healthcare into pharmaceuticals and other healthcare. We 
controlled for wealth and lifestyle factors. The sample consisted of 21 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries and the 
measure of pharmaceutical consumption used was the best available for a large 
number of OECD countries. We proxied health with life expectancies at birth, at 
age 40, and age 60.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Pharmaceutical consumption had a positive and 
statistically significant effect on remaining life expectancy at age 40 and 60 
years (significant at the 0.10 and 0.05 level, respectively, based on a 2-tailed 
test), although the effect on life expectancy at birth was small and not 
significant. Sensitivity analysis showed that these results were generally 
robust. A significant effect of pharmaceutical consumption on infant mortality 
was not demonstrated and results of the infant mortality model were very 
sensitive to small changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased pharmaceutical consumption helps improve mortality 
outcomes, especially for those at middle age and older.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200018001-00006
PMID: 11151308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2000 Dec 16;144(51):2437-42.

[Diverse expression of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1].

[Article in Dutch]

Dreijerink KM(1), Roijers JF, Jansen-Schillhorn van Veen JM, Neijt JP, van 
Vroonhoven TJ, Lips CJ.

Author information:
(1)Divisie Inwendige Geneeskunde en Dermatologie, afd. Endocrinologie, 
Universitair Medisch Centrum, Postbus 85.500, 3508 GA Utrecht.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2000 Dec 16;144(51):2445-9.

MEN-1 is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder, characterised by the 
occurrence of multiple tumours, particularly in the parathyroid glands, the 
pancreatic islets, the pituitary gland and the adrenal glands, as well as by 
neuroendocrine carcinoid tumours. Various clinical manifestations are presented 
by description of three patients harbouring a MEN1 gene germline mutation. A 
44-year-old man had symptoms of hyperparathyroidism and in addition to 
parathyroid adenomas proved to have tumours in the thymus, adrenal and pituitary 
glands. A 48-year-old woman from a family with MEN-1 had suffered since her 40th 
year from headache and heartburn; she appeared to have adenomas in the 
parathyroid glands and gastrinomas in the pancreas, leading to a 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. One of her relatives, a man aged 29, had suffered 
from childhood from convulsions due to attacks of hypoglycaemia, and an 
insulinoma was assessed. In all patients, surgical and/or medical treatment 
alleviated symptoms. Clearly, the position or nature of the mutations in the 
MEN1 gene do not correlate with the clinical expression of the disease. Family 
investigation, DNA analysis and periodic examination improve quality of life and 
the life expectancy.

PMID: 11151650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Naturwissenschaften. 2000 Nov;87(11):476-86. doi: 10.1007/s001140050763.

Life history evolution: successes, limitations, and prospects.

Stearns SC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Basel, Zoology Institute, Rheinsprung 9, 4051 Basel, 
Switzerland. stephen.stearns@yale.edu

Life history theory tries to explain how evolution designs organisms to achieve 
reproductive success. The design is a solution to an ecological problem posed by 
the environment and subject to constraints intrinsic to the organism. Work on 
life histories has expanded the role of phenotypes in evolutionary theory, 
extending the range of predictions from genetic patterns to whole-organism 
traits directly connected to fitness. Among the questions answered are the 
following: Why are organisms small or large? Why do they mature early or late? 
Why do they have few or many offspring? Why do they have a short or a long life? 
Why must they grow old and die? The classical approach to life histories was 
optimization; it has had some convincing empirical success. Recently 
non-equilibrium approaches involving frequency-dependence, density-dependence, 
evolutionary game theory, adaptive dynamics, and explicit population dynamics 
have supplanted optimization as the preferred approach. They have not yet had as 
much empirical success, but there are logical reasons to prefer them, and they 
may soon extend the impact of life history theory into population dynamics and 
interspecific interactions in coevolving communities.

DOI: 10.1007/s001140050763
PMID: 11151666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Folia Parasitol (Praha). 2000;47(4):293-302. doi: 10.14411/fp.2000.051.

New records of trypanorhynch cestodes from the Gulf of Mexico, including 
Kotorella pronosoma (Stossich, 1901) and Heteronybelinia palliata (Linton, 1924) 
comb. n.

Palm HW(1), Overstreet RM.

Author information:
(1)Marine Pathology Group, Abteilung Fischereibiologie, Institut fÃ¼r Meereskunde 
an der UniversitÃ¤t Kiel, Germany. hpalm@gmx.net

Four trypanorhynchs, Kotorella pronosoma (Stossich, 1901), Nybelinia cf. 
bisulcata (Linton, 1889), Nybelinia scoliodoni (Vijayalakshmi, Vijayalakshmi et 
Gangadharam, 1996), and Dasyrhynchus pacificus Robinson, 1965 are reported for 
the first time from the Gulf, which is now known to harbour at least 34 
different species. In addition to the range extension for the trypanorhynchs 
listed above, 21 new host records are reported involving 13 cestode species. 
Characters of the genus Kotorella Euzet et Radujkovic, 1989 are emended, 
Nybelinia narinari MacCallum, 1917 is considered ajunior synonym of 
Kotorellapronosoma (Stossich, 1901), and Heteronybelinia palliata (Linton, 1924) 
comb. n. is redescribed. The usefulness of the bulb ratio as a means to 
distinguish different tentaculariid species is discussed, and the importance of 
shallow water localities for the life cycle of trypanorhynch cestodes is 
emphasised.

DOI: 10.14411/fp.2000.051
PMID: 11151954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Altern Complement Med. 2000 Dec;6(6):557-9. doi: 10.1089/acm.2000.6.557.

The effect of a traditional Chinese prescription for a case of lung carcinoma.

Kamei T(1), Kumano H, Iwata K, Nariai Y, Matsumoto T.

Author information:
(1)Shimane Institute of Health Science, Izumo, Japan. 
kamei@hanken.shimane-med.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effectiveness of Ninjin Yoei To (NYT; 
Ren-Shen-Yang-Rong-Tang in Chinese medicine; Kotaro Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan), one of the traditional herbal medicines, against lung carcinoma.
SETTING: The Nursing Center Himawari DESIGN, PATIENT, AND PREPARATION: The 
regular dosage of NYT (15 g/d) was prescribed for 7 weeks to one elderly patient 
with lung carcinoma. The daily standard dose of NYT is prepared from dried 
extract obtained from 12 crude natural substances, ginseng, cinnamon bark, 
Japanese angelica root, astragalus root, peony root, citrus unshiu peel, 
rehmannia root, polygala root, atractylodes rhizome, schisanda fruit, poria 
sclerotium, and glycyrrhiza. NYT is certified by the Japanese Ministry of Health 
and Welfare.
RESULTS: The tumor marker levels (CEA and CA19-9) decreased and the scores of 
yin-yang and xu-shi inverted from negative and positive during 7 weeks. The 
patient's cough disappeared and her appetite recovered.
CONCLUSION: NYT has a positive effect on life expectancy for patients with 
malignancy. The diagnostic scoring system in yin-yang and xu-shi and 
prescription of Chinese herb may be available to gain control over a patient's 
health.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2000.6.557
PMID: 11152062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Am J Cardiol. 2001 Jan 15;87(2):203-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)01317-5.

Impact of presentation of research results on likelihood of prescribing 
medications to patients with left ventricular dysfunction.

Lacy CR(1), Barone JA, Suh DC, Malini PL, Bueno M, Moylan DM, Kostis JB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease Management and Clinical Outcomes, University of Medicine 
and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick 
08903-0019, USA.

This study was conducted to evaluate willingness to prescribe medication based 
on identical data presented in different outcome terms to health professionals 
of varied discipline, geographic location, and level of training. 
Cross-sectional survey using a self-administered questionnaire was performed in 
400 health professionals (physicians, pharmacists, physicians-in-training, and 
pharmacy students) in the United States and Europe. Data reflecting a clinical 
trial were presented in 6 outcome terms: 3 terms describing identical mortality 
(relative risk reduction, absolute risk reduction, and number of patients needed 
to be treated to prevent 1 death); and 3 distractors (increased life expectancy, 
decreased hospitalization rate, and decreased cost). Willingness to prescribe 
and rank order of medication preference assuming willingness to prescribe were 
measured. The results of the study showed that willingness to prescribe and 
first choice preference were significantly greater when study results were 
presented as relative risk reduction than when identical mortality data were 
presented as absolute risk reduction or number of patients needed to be treated 
to avoid 1 death (p <0.001). Increase in life expectancy was the most 
influential distractor. In conclusion, this study, performed in the era of 
"evidence-based medicine," demonstrates that the method of reporting research 
trial results has significant influence on health professionals' willingness to 
prescribe. The high numerical value of relative risk reduction and the concrete 
and tangible quality of increased life expectancy exert greater influence on 
health professionals than other standard outcome terms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)01317-5
PMID: 11152840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Am J Med. 2001 Jan;110(1):33-40. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00598-2.

Comparison of four strategies for diagnosing deep vein thrombosis: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Perone N(1), Bounameaux H, Perrier A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic 2 (NP), Department of Medicine, Geneva University Hospital, 
Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2001 Jan;110(1):69-70.

PURPOSE: Four strategies for the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis have been 
validated recently. The strategies use various combinations of assessment of a 
patient's clinical probability of having deep venous thrombosis, serial lower 
limb venous compression ultrasonography, and measurement of plasma D-dimer 
levels. We compared the cost-effectiveness of these diagnostic strategies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a formal cost-effectiveness analysis using a 
decision-analysis model. Outcomes considered were costs per patient, 3-month 
quality-adjusted survival, number of lives saved per 1,000 patients, and 
incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Under baseline conditions, with a 24% prevalence of deep vein 
thrombosis in tested patients, the effectiveness of all strategies was similar 
(4.6 to 4.8 lives saved per 1,000 patients managed). The most expensive strategy 
was serial ultrasound (repeat ultrasound on day 7 in all patients with a normal 
initial ultrasound) at a cost-effectiveness of $10,716 per additional QALY. 
Performing a repeat ultrasound only in patients with an elevated D-dimer level 
(serial ultrasound with D-dimer) was somewhat less expensive at $10,281 per 
additional QALY. Taking clinical probability into account by repeating 
ultrasound only in patients with an intermediate clinical probability of deep 
vein thrombosis (risk-based serial ultrasound) yielded further savings and cost 
$10,090 per additional QALY. The least expensive and most cost-effective option 
was to perform D-dimer as the initial test, followed by a single ultrasound if 
the D-dimer level was abnormal, and by phlebography in patients with a normal 
ultrasound and a high clinical probability of deep vein thrombosis (D-dimer with 
risk-based single ultrasound) at $8,897 per additional QALY. This strategy 
allowed a 17% reduction in incremental costs compared with the most expensive 
algorithm and reduced resource consumption (70 ultrasound procedures per 100 
patients managed vs 130 to 170 with the other diagnostic strategies).
CONCLUSIONS: Combining clinical probability and D-dimer with a single ultrasound 
in the diagnostic workup of patients with possible deep vein thrombosis is 
highly cost-effective, allowing a reduction in costs and resource use without 
any substantial increase in mortality. Serial ultrasonography is less 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00598-2
PMID: 11152863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Int Orthop. 2000;24(5):268-71. doi: 10.1007/s002640000167.

Interdependence of clinical and isokinetic results after bicondylar knee 
prostheses with special emphasis on quality of life results.

Fuchs S(1), Tibesku CO, FlÃ¶ren M, Thorwesten L.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Allgemeine OrthopÃ¤die, WestfÃ¤lische 
Wilhelms-UniversitÃ¤t MÃ¼nster, Albert-Schweitzer-Strasse 33, 48129 MÃ¼nster, 
Germany. fuchssu@uni-muenster.de

Nineteen patients were examined at an average follow-up of 2 years after total 
knee joint replacement without patella resurfacing. They were compared with 22 
healthy subjects of the same age. Using the Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) 
score the operated knee joints scored an average of 77 points, the contralateral 
side scored 87 points and the control group 97 points. In the SF-36 health 
questionnaire the patients showed highly significant deviations. Isokinetic 
measurements revealed a clear loss of isokinetic strength of more than 50% on 
average in flexion as in extension when compared to the control group and there 
were considerable asymmetries between the operated and the contralateral legs.

Dix-neuf patients ont suivis pendant une durÃ©e moyenne de 2 ans aprÃ¨s une 
arthroplastie totale du genou sans implant rotulien. Ils sont comparÃ©s avec 22 
sujets de mÃªme age bonne santÃ©. Utilisant le score HSS, les patients ont atteint 
environ 77 points, le groupe de contrÃ´le 97 points. Les rÃ©sultats des patients 
selon le questionnaire de qualitÃ© de vie SF-36 ont montrÃ©s des dÃ©viations 
hautement significatives. Les donnÃ©es isokinÃ©tiques rÃ©vÃ¨lent une perte de force 
supÃ©rieure 50% en moyenne, sâagissant de la flexion et de lâextension, en 
comparaison avec le groupe de contrÃ´le.

DOI: 10.1007/s002640000167
PMCID: PMC3619910
PMID: 11153456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Blood. 2001 Jan 15;97(2):536-42. doi: 10.1182/blood.v97.2.536.

Chronic inborn erythrocytosis leads to cardiac dysfunction and premature death 
in mice overexpressing erythropoietin.

Wagner KF(1), Katschinski DM, Hasegawa J, Schumacher D, Meller B, Gembruch U, 
Schramm U, Jelkmann W, Gassmann M, Fandrey J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, the Institute of Physiology, University of 
LÃ¼beck, LÃ¼beck, Germany.

The most common cause of an increase of the hematocrit is secondary to elevated 
erythropoietin levels. Erythrocytosis is assumed to cause higher blood viscosity 
that could put the cardiovascular system at hemodynamic and rheological risks. 
Secondary erythrocytosis results from tissue hypoxia, and one can hardly define 
what cardiovascular consequences are caused by chronic erythrocytosis or 
hypoxia. Herein, a novel transgenic (tg) mouse line is characterized that is 
erythrocytotic because of chronic overexpression of the human erythropoietin 
gene. These mice grow up well, reaching a hematocrit of about 0.80 in adulthood. 
Blood volume of adult tg mice was markedly increased by 75%. Unexpectedly, blood 
pressure was not elevated and cardiac output was not decreased. Still, the adult 
tg mice showed features of cardiac dysfunction with increased heart weight. In 
vivo, high-frequency echocardiography revealed marked ventricular dilatation 
that was confirmed by histologic examination. Furthermore, by transmission 
electron microscopy, a prominent intracellular edema of the cardiomyocytes was 
seen. Exercise performance of the tg mice was dramatically reduced, unmasking 
the severity of their compromised cardiovascular function. In addition, life 
expectancy of the tg mice was significantly reduced to 7.4 months. Our findings 
suggest that severe erythrocytosis per se results in cardiac dysfunction and 
markedly reduced life span.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v97.2.536
PMID: 11154234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Feb;55(2):123-5. doi:
10.1136/jech.55.2.123.

The discount rate in the economic evaluation of prevention: a thought 
experiment.

Bonneux L(1), Birnie E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
bonneux@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: In the standard economic model of evaluation, constant discount 
rates devalue the long term health benefits of prevention strongly. This study 
shows that it is unlikely that this reflects societal preference.
DESIGN: A thought experiment in a cause elimination life table calculates 
savings of eliminating cardiovascular disease from the Dutch population. A cost 
effectiveness analysis calculates the acceptable costs of such an intervention 
at a threshold of 18 000 Euro per saved life year.
METHODS: Cause specific mortality (all cardiovascular causes of death and all 
other causes) and health care costs (all costs of cardiovascular disease and all 
other causes of costs) by age and male sex of 1994.
RESULTS: At a 0% discount rate, an intervention eliminating cardiovascular 
disease may cost 71 100 Euro. At the same threshold but at discount rates of 3% 
or 6%, the same intervention may cost 8100 Euro (8.8 times less) or 1100 Euro 
(65 times less).
CONCLUSIONS: The standard economic model needs more realistic duration dependent 
models of time preference, which reflect societal preference.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.2.123
PMCID: PMC1731836
PMID: 11154251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Health Policy. 2000 Dec;54(3):169-85. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00109-3.

Setting priorities for the adoption of health technologies on a national level 
-- the Israeli experience.

Shani S(1), Siebzehner MI, Luxenburg O, Shemer J.

Author information:
(1)Israeli Center for Technology Assessment in Health Care, The Gertner 
Institute for Epidemiology and Health Policy Research, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

The rapid development of new and expensive health technologies together with the 
limited resources available for the health care system, makes priority setting 
or rationing inevitable. The Israeli Health Insurance Law, enacted in 1995, 
determined a basic list of health services to be provided to all residents by 
public funding. Although the Israeli health care system has reached a high 
standard of medical care as expressed by parameters such as long life expectancy 
and low infant mortality, the social and professional demand for new and 
expensive health technologies is increasing. Towards the fiscal year of 1999, 
the Medical Technologies Administration of the Ministry of Health recommended a 
list of new technologies to be added to the list of health services. The 
Ministry of Finance allocated that year US dollars 35 million for this purpose, 
while a rough assessment found that there are new important technologies to be 
added at a cost of more than US dollars 350 million. The Medical Technologies 
Administration took a systematic approach of health technology assessment - 
ad-hoc teams were established for evaluating clinical safety, efficacy and 
effectiveness, conducting needs assessment and cost-effectiveness descriptions. 
Assessment of the data was based on evidence-based medicine. A set of criteria 
was determined in order to enable the prioritizing of the assessed new 
technologies. This procedure led to a list of technologies suggested for 
inclusion. The Minister of Health appointed a public committee whose purpose was 
to decide the technologies to be added to the list of health services. The 
committee, made up of representatives from the government, the sick-funds and 
the public, had to evaluate each technology, based on the analysis submitted to 
the committee, taking into consideration clinical, economic, social, ethical and 
legal aspects according to predefined criteria. The thorough work of the Medical 
Technologies Administration enabled the committee to adopt its recommended list 
with minor changes within a limited timeframe. In conclusion, we propose a 
practical and pragmatic model for the inclusion of new health technologies at a 
national level, based on health technology assessment and explicit priority 
setting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00109-3
PMID: 11154787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2000 Oct;17(9):498-503. doi: 10.1023/a:1009489624045.

Toward a more meaningful in vitro fertilization success rate.

Deonandan R(1), Campbell MK, Ãstbye T, Tummon I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Western Ontario, 
Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: The objective was to explore the variability in in vitro fertilization 
(IVF) success rates.
METHODS: Published success rates from IVF clinics in North America were 
investigated to establish types of biases and potential inaccuracies.
RESULTS: Success rates reported by IVF clinics vary with regard to the indices 
and patient populations used to compute them. Selection bias and misunderstood 
statistics are major factors contributing to the inappropriateness of certain 
rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The influence of privatization and market forces also may 
contribute to the need to oversimplify IVF statistics.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009489624045
PMCID: PMC3455266
PMID: 11155322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Autumn;16(4):1147-57. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300103186.

Cost savings and health losses from reducing inappropriate admissions to a 
department of internal medicine.

Eriksen BO(1), FÃ¸rde OH, Kristiansen IS, Nord E, Pape JF, Almdahl SM, Hensrud A, 
Jaeger S, MÃ¼rer FA.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of TromsÃ¸.

OBJECTIVES: Inappropriate hospital admissions are commonly believed to represent 
a potential for significant cost reductions. However, this presumes that these 
patients can be identified before the hospital stay. The present study aimed to 
investigate to what extent this is possible.
METHODS: Consecutive admissions to a department of internal medicine were 
assessed by two expert panels. One panel predicted the appropriateness of the 
stays from the information available at admission, while final judgments of 
appropriateness were made after discharge by the other.
RESULTS: The panels correctly classified 88% of the appropriate and 27% of the 
inappropriate admissions. If the elective admissions predicted to be 
inappropriate had been excluded, 9% of the costs would have been saved, and 5% 
of the gain in quality-adjusted life-years lost. The corresponding results for 
emergency admissions were 14% and 18%.
CONCLUSIONS: The savings obtained by excluding admissions predicted to be 
inappropriate were small relative to the health losses. Programs for reducing 
inappropriate health care should not be implemented without investigating their 
effects on both health outcomes and costs.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300103186
PMID: 11155834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Autumn;16(4):1158-67. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300103198.

Modeling age differences in cost-effectiveness analysis. A review of the 
literature.

Russell LB(1), Sisk JE.

Author information:
(1)Rutgers University, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Cost-effectiveness analysts often present cost-effectiveness results 
by age to help inform decisions about the use of an intervention. Yet it is not 
known how well studies model the risks and costs associated with age. We 
reviewed published studies to examine their modeling of age differences.
METHODS: MEDLINE searches identified all cost-effectiveness analyses published 
between 1985 and 1997 that included adults 50 years of age and older, were based 
on data for developed countries, and compared cost-effectiveness ratios for 
adults of different ages or for initiation of an intervention at different ages; 
36 articles met these criteria. They were reviewed to determine the extent to 
which they incorporated age-specific data. Studies that justified using the same 
data for all ages were counted as having varied the data element by age.
RESULTS: All studies varied life expectancy by age. Most also varied the 
incidence/prevalence of the target condition and the case fatality rate. Only 
36% varied the effectiveness rate of the intervention by age. Costs were usually 
assumed constant: 42% of studies varied the cost of treating adverse effects and 
17% varied the cost of treating the target condition. Whether a data element was 
varied did not appear to be related to the pattern of cost-effectiveness ratios 
by age.
CONCLUSIONS: Many studies have not modeled age differences in sufficient detail 
to ensure that differences in cost-effectiveness ratios by age are accurate and 
a sound basis for decisions. As cost-effectiveness analysis becomes more 
widespread, analysts should strive to incorporate more complete age-specific 
data.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300103198
PMID: 11155835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Autumn;16(4):1220-4. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300103265.

A note on QALYs versus HYEs. Health states versus health profiles.

Dolan P.

This paper considers the question of what ought to be valued in the context of 
measuring the outcomes of healthcare interventions. The answer is discrete 
health states in the case of the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) model and an 
entire health profile in the case of the healthy-years equivalent (HYE) 
approach. How well the weighted average of values attached to the former 
approximates the overall value attached to the latter depends on the validity of 
the assumptions of the QALY model. The paper considers some of the empirical 
literature relating to them. One of the most important assumptions, which from 
the limited evidence available appears not to hold, is additive separability. 
However, it is argued that violation of this assumption does not in itself 
invalidate the QALY approach, since in some circumstances it might be more 
appropriate to elicit the value of a health state independently of the states 
that succeed it. Investigation into this issue is identified as one of the key 
areas where future research efforts should be directed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300103265
PMID: 11155842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Autumn;16(4):976-86. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300103058.

Where are the economic guidelines coming from?

McGuire A(1), Morris S, Raikou M.

Author information:
(1)City University, London.

Economic guidelines recommend methods that should be employed in conducting 
economic evaluations of healthcare programs. The nature of the efficiency or 
equity goal underpinning economic guidelines is unclear. What is also unclear is 
how the methods recommended in the guidelines are linked to the underlying 
efficiency or equity goal being targeted. If it is unclear what 
efficiency/equity objectives are being pursued, then it is unlikely that even 
full implementation of economic guidelines will improve resource allocation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300103058
PMID: 11155846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ann Thorac Surg. 2000 Dec;70(6):1946-52. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01863-4.

Prosthetic valve type for patients undergoing aortic valve replacement: a 
decision analysis.

Birkmeyer NJ(1), Birkmeyer JD, Tosteson AN, Grunkemeier GL, Marrin CA, O'Connor 
GT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and the Center For the Evaluative Clinical Sciences, 
Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA. 
nancyj.birkmeyer@dartmouth.edu

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2001 Nov;72(5):1795-6.

BACKGROUND: In two large, randomized, clinical trials long-term survival after 
aortic valve replacement (AVR) was similar for patients receiving tissue and 
mechanical aortic heart valve prostheses. Higher bleeding rates among patients 
with mechanical valves, who must receive permanent oral anticoagulation to 
prevent thromboembolism, were offset by higher reoperation rates for valve 
degeneration among patients with tissue valves. Because the average age of 
patients undergoing AVR and clinical practices have changed considerably since 
the randomized clinical trials were conducted, we performed a decision analysis 
to reassess the optimal valve type for patients undergoing AVR.
METHODS: We used a Markov state-transition model to simulate the occurrence of 
valve-related events and life expectancy for patients undergoing AVR. 
Probabilities of clinical events and mortality were derived from the randomized 
clinical trials and large follow-up studies.
RESULTS: Although the two valve types were associated with similar life 
expectancy in 60-year-old patients (mean age of patients in the randomized 
clinical trials), tissue valves were associated with greater life expectancy 
than mechanical valves (10.7 versus 11.1 years) in 70-year-old patients 
(currently mean age of AVR patients). For 70-year-old patients, the effects of 
major bleeding complications (24%) with mechanical valves substantially 
outweighed those of reoperation for valve failure (12%) with tissue valves at 12 
years. Of the clinical practice changes assessed, the recommended valve type was 
most sensitive to changes in bleeding rates with anticoagulation. However, 
bleeding rates would have to be 68% lower than those reported in the European 
randomized clinical trial to affect the recommended valve type for 70-year-old 
patients. Reoperation rates would have to be five times higher, and mortality 
rates at reoperation would have to be four times higher to affect the 
recommended valve type for 70-year-old patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although mechanical valves are preferred for AVR patients less than 
60 years old, most patients currently undergoing AVR are elderly and would 
benefit more from tissue valves.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01863-4
PMID: 11156100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Dis Colon Rectum. 2000 Dec;43(12):1704-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02236854.

Favorable short-term and long-term outcome after elective radical rectal cancer 
resection in patients 75 years of age or older.

Puig-La Calle J Jr(1), Quayle J, Thaler HT, Shi W, Paty PB, Quan SH, Cohen AM, 
Guillem JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA.

PURPOSE: Because the elderly population in Western countries is rapidly 
increasing, as is their life expectancy, studies aimed at determining the impact 
of major surgery for primary rectal cancer in this group are warranted. The 
purpose of this study was to compare perioperative morbidity and mortality and 
long-term disease-specific and overall survival in primary rectal cancer 
patients, older and younger than 75 years of age, subject to major pelvic 
surgery.
METHODS: From September 1986 to December 1996, the Prospective Colorectal 
Service Database identified 1,120 consecutive patients who underwent major 
pelvic surgery for primary rectal cancer. Of these, 157 (15 percent) were 75 
years of age or older and comprise the elderly group. From the remaining 963 
patients younger than 75 years of age, a representative random sample of 174 was 
selected and constitutes the younger group. Data were obtained from computerized 
databases and confirmed via chart review and telephone interviews.
RESULTS: Perioperative complications were observed in 53 (34 percent) elderly 
and 63 (36 percent; P = not significant) younger patients. Perioperative deaths 
occurred in two (1.3 percent) elderly and one (0.6 percent; P = not significant) 
younger patient. The median follow-up time was 48 months. Although the overall 
survival was lower in the elderly group (P = 0.02; the 5-year overall survival 
rates were 51 and 66 percent), the disease-specific survival rate was similar in 
the two groups (P = 0.75; the 5-year disease-specific survival rates were 69 and 
71 percent).
CONCLUSION: In select individuals 75 years of age or older, major pelvic surgery 
for primary rectal cancer can be done with perioperative morbidity and mortality 
rates comparable to those obtained in younger individuals, while achieving 
excellent disease-specific and overall long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02236854
PMID: 11156454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Am J Hum Genet. 2001 Feb;68(2):397-409. doi: 10.1086/318197. Epub 2001 Jan
10.

A genomewide linkage-disequilibrium scan localizes the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean 
cytochrome oxidase deficiency to 2p16.

Lee N(1), Daly MJ, Delmonte T, Lander ES, Xu F, Hudson TJ, Mitchell GA, Morin 
CC, Robinson BH, Rioux JD.

Author information:
(1)Metabolism Research Programme, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Leigh syndrome (LS) affects 1/40,000 newborn infants in the worldwide population 
and is characterized by the presence of developmental delay and lactic acidosis 
and by a mean life expectancy variously estimated at 3-5 years. 
Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean (SLSJ) cytochrome oxidase (COX) deficiency (LS 
French-Canadian type [LSFC] [MIM 220111]), an autosomal recessive form of 
congenital lactic acidosis, presents with developmental delay and hypotonia. It 
is an LS variant that is found in a geographically isolated region of Quebec and 
that occurs in 1/2,178 live births. Patients with LSFC show a phenotype similar 
to that of patients with LS, but the two groups differ in clinical presentation. 
We studied DNA samples from 14 patients with LSFC and from their parents, 
representing a total of 13 families. Because of founder effects in the SLSJ 
region, considerable linkage disequilibrium (LD) was expected to surround the 
LSFC mutation. We therefore performed a genomewide screen for LD, using 290 
autosomal microsatellite markers. A single marker, D2S1356, located on 2p16, 
showed significant (P < 10(-5)) genomewide LD. Using high-resolution genetic 
mapping with additional markers and four additional families with LSFC, we were 
able to identify a common ancestral haplotype and to limit the critical region 
to approximately 2 cM between D2S119 and D2S2174. COX7AR, a gene encoding a 
COX7a-related protein, had previously been mapped to this region. We determined 
the genomic structure and resequenced this gene in patients with LSFC and in 
controls but found no functional mutations. Although the LSFC gene remains to be 
elucidated, the present study demonstrates the feasibility of using a genomewide 
LD strategy to localize the critical region for a rare genetic disease in a 
founder population.

DOI: 10.1086/318197
PMCID: PMC1235273
PMID: 11156535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. West J Med. 2001 Feb;174(2):84. doi: 10.1136/ewjm.174.2.84.

Is an ounce of prevention always worth a pound of cure? Yes: clinical preventive 
services can provide excellent value.

Teutsch SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research and Management, US Human Health, Merck & Co, Inc, West 
Point, PA 19486, USA. steven_teutsch.merck.com

DOI: 10.1136/ewjm.174.2.84
PMCID: PMC1071252
PMID: 11156898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Pediatrics. 2001 Feb;107(2):357-62. doi: 10.1542/peds.107.2.357.

Maternal prenatal lifestyle factors and infectious disease in early childhood: a 
follow-up study of hospitalization within a Danish birth cohort.

Yuan W(1), Basso O, SÃ¸rensen HT, Olsen J.

Author information:
(1)Danish Epidemiology Science Centre, University of Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark. 
yw@soci.au.dk

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether maternal prenatal lifestyle factors were 
associated with the risk of hospitalization with infectious disease during early 
childhood and whether a possible association was modified by fetal growth 
reduction.
METHODS: The study was based on a birth cohort of 10 400 newborns whose mothers 
attended the midwife centers in Odense and Aalborg, Denmark, from April 1984 to 
April 1987 at approximately the 36th week of gestation. Information on 
hospitalization with infectious disease was extracted from the National Hospital 
Discharge Registry, and newborns were followed up to the end of 1996.
RESULTS: Among 6022 children who were hospitalized at least once, 31.4% (n = 
1892) were hospitalized with infectious diseases. The cumulative incidence rate 
of hospitalization with infections in children from the age of 6 months to 12 
years was 18.9%. The incidence rate ratio in children born to mothers smoking 
during pregnancy was 1.24 (95% confidence interval: 1.13-1.36) compared with 
those of nonsmoking mothers. Mothers whose body mass index was <18 kg/m(2) were 
more likely to give birth to infants who were hospitalized with infectious 
disease (incidence rate ratio: 1.29; 95% confidence interval: 1.05-1.59). The 
increased risk was present in children only up to the age of 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The study shows that maternal smoking during pregnancy and a low 
prepregnancy body mass index are associated with a higher risk of 
hospitalization with infectious disease during early childhood. These 
associations are independent of fetal growth indicators.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.107.2.357
PMID: 11158470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Ophthalmology. 2001 Feb;108(2):348-66. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(00)00526-1.

Collaborative ocular melanoma study (COMS) randomized trial of I-125 
brachytherapy for medium choroidal melanoma. I. Visual acuity after 3 years COMS 
report no. 16.

Melia BM, Abramson DH, Albert DM, Boldt HC, Earle JD, Hanson WF, Montague P, Moy 
CS, Schachat AP, Simpson ER, Straatsma BR, Vine AK, Weingeist TA; Collaborative 
Ocular Melanoma Study Group.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2001 Oct;108(10):1716-7.

OBJECTIVE: To report visual acuity during the first three years after iodine 125 
(I(125)) brachytherapy for medium-sized choroidal melanoma and to identify 
important baseline and treatment factors associated with posttreatment visual 
acuity in a group of patients who were treated and observed prospectively as 
part of a large, randomized clinical trial.
DESIGN: Observational case series within a randomized, multicenter study.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients enrolled in the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study 
randomized trial of I(125) brachytherapy versus enucleation had choroidal 
melanoma of at least 2.5 mm but no more than 10.0 mm in apical height, and no 
more than 16.0 mm in largest basal dimension. One thousand three hundred 
seventeen patients enrolled from February 1987 through July 1998; 657 patients 
were assigned to I(125) brachytherapy. Visual acuity data for 623 patients who 
received I(125) brachytherapy as randomly assigned and who have been observed 
for at least 1 year were analyzed for this report.
METHODS: Under study protocol, an ophthalmic evaluation, including 
best-corrected visual acuity measurement of each eye, was performed at baseline, 
every 6 months thereafter for 5 years, and once yearly thereafter. Two poor 
vision outcomes, visual acuity of 20/200 or worse that was confirmed at the next 
follow-up examination and loss of six lines or more of visual acuity from 
baseline that was confirmed at the next follow-up examination, were analyzed to 
identify baseline and treatment characteristics that were associated with 
posttreatment visual acuity.
RESULTS: At baseline, median visual acuity in the eye with choroidal melanoma 
was 20/32, with 70% of eyes having 20/40 or better and 10% of eyes having 20/200 
or worse visual acuity. Three years after I(125) brachytherapy, median visual 
acuity was 20/125, with 34% having 20/40 or better and 45% having 20/200 or 
worse visual acuity, including eyes that were enucleated within 3 years of 
treatment. Life-table estimates of percentages of patients who lost six or more 
lines of visual acuity from baseline, a quadrupling of the minimum angle of 
resolution, with this finding confirmed at the next 6-month follow-up 
examination, were 18% by 1 year, 34% by 2 years, and 49% by 3 years after 
treatment. Life-table estimates of percentages of patients with baseline visual 
acuity better than 20/200 whose visual acuity decreased to 20/200 or worse, 
confirmed at the next follow-up examination, were 17% by 1 year, 33% by 2 years, 
and 43% by 3 years after treatment. As soon as a poor vision outcome was 
observed, improvement of visual acuity to a level that no longer met the 
definition for a poor vision outcome was rare. Greater baseline tumor apical 
height and shorter distance between the tumor and the foveal avascular zone 
(FAZ) were the factors most strongly associated with loss of six or more lines 
of visual acuity after treatment. These two factors and baseline visual acuity 
also were strongly associated with visual acuity 20/200 or worse after 
treatment. Patient history of diabetes, presence of tumor-associated retinal 
detachment, and tumors that were not dome shaped also were associated with 
greater risk for both of the poor vision outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Forty-three percent to 49% of treated eyes had substantial 
impairment in visual acuity by 3 years after I(125) brachytherapy, defined as a 
loss of six or more lines of visual acuity from the pretreatment level (49% of 
eyes) or visual acuity of 20/200 or worse (43% of eyes) that was confirmed at 
the next 6-month examination. Patients with a history of diabetes and patients 
whose eyes had thicker tumors, tumors close to or beneath the FAZ, 
tumor-associated retinal detachment, or tumors that were not dome shaped were 
those most likely to have a poor visual acuity outcome within 3 years after 
I(125) brachytherapy.
