
DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(00)00526-1
PMID: 11158813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Am J Epidemiol. 2001 Jan 15;153(2):132-6. doi: 10.1093/aje/153.2.132.

Is the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease greater for women than for men?

Hebert LE(1), Scherr PA, McCann JJ, Beckett LA, Evans DA.

Author information:
(1)Rush Institute for Healthy Aging, Rush University and Rush-Presbyterian-St. 
Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. lhebert1@rush.edu

A large proportion of people with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are women; however, 
it is not clear whether this is due to higher risk of disease or solely to the 
larger number of women alive at ages when AD is common. Beginning in 1982, two 
stratified random samples of people aged > or =65 years in East Boston, 
Massachusetts underwent detailed, structured clinical evaluation for prevalent 
(467 people) and incident (642 people from a cohort previously ascertained to be 
disease-free) probable AD. The prevalence sample was followed for mortality for 
up to 11 years (through December 1992). The age-specific incidence of AD did not 
differ significantly by sex (for men vs. women, odds ratio = 0.92; 95% 
confidence interval (CI): 0.51, 1.67). Controlled for age, prevalence also did 
not differ significantly by sex (for men vs. women, odds ratio = 1.29; 95% CI: 
0.67, 2.48). The increase in risk of mortality due to AD did not vary by sex. 
The odds ratio for women with AD compared with women without AD was 2.07 (95% 
CI: 1.21, 3.56). For men, the odds ratio was 2.22 (95% CI: 1.02, 4.81). These 
findings suggest that the excess number of women with AD is due to the longer 
life expectancy of women rather than sex-specific risk factors for the disease.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/153.2.132
PMID: 11159157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Blood. 2001 Feb 15;97(4):858-62. doi: 10.1182/blood.v97.4.858.

Risk of recurrent venous thrombosis in children with combined prothrombotic risk 
factors.

Nowak-Göttl U(1), Junker R, Kreuz W, von Eckardstein A, Kosch A, Nohe N, 
Schobess R, Ehrenforth S; Childhood Thrombophilia Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, University of Münster, Germany.

Comment in
    Blood. 2001 Sep 15;98(6):1993-4.
    Blood. 2002 May 1;99(9):3476-7; author reply 3477-8.

After a first episode of spontaneous venous thromboembolism (VTE), the risk of 
recurrence persists for many years. However, comprehensive data about the risk 
of recurrence in pediatric patients have hitherto not been reported. Thus, this 
study evaluated the risk of recurrent VTE among children in relation to the 
presence of single or combined-inherited and/or acquired causes of 
thrombophilia. A total of 301 patients aged neonate to 18 years (median, 6 
years) who were referred for an objectively confirmed first episode of 
spontaneous VTE were followed prospectively for a median time of 7 years (range, 
6 months to 15 years) after withdrawal of anticoagulation. All patients were 
studied for established acquired and inherited causes of thromboembolism. With 
reference to all 301 patients, one single prothrombotic risk factor was found in 
176 subjects (58.5%), whereas combined defects were found in 20.6% (n = 62). 
Recurrent VTE occurred in 64 patients (21.3%) within a median time of 3.5 years 
(range, 7 weeks to 15 years) after withdrawal of anticoagulation, with a 
significantly shorter cumulative thrombosis-free survival in children carrying 
combined defects (P <.0001; chi-square, 42.2). The factor V G1691A mutation was 
present in the majority of patients with recurrent VTE. Including genetic 
defects, gender, and acquired risk factors, multivariate analysis showed that 
only the presence of prothrombotic defects increases the risk of recurrent VTE 
(single defect: odds ratio [OR], 4.6; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.3-9.0; P 
<.0001; combined defect: OR, 24.0; 95% CI: 5.3-108.7; P <.0001). As a 
consequence of the data presented here, it is suggested that screening for 
genetic risk factors be done among pediatric patients with VTE.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v97.4.858
PMID: 11159508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2001 Feb;47 Suppl T1:1-8. doi:
10.1093/jac/47.suppl_1.1.

Herpes zoster--predicting and minimizing the impact of post-herpetic neuralgia.

Johnson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Pain Management Clinic, Department of Anaesthesia, Bristol Royal Infirmary, 
Marlborough Street, Bristol BS2 8HW, UK. robert.johnson@ubht.swest.nhs.uk

Herpes zoster results from reactivation of latent varicella-zoster virus in the 
dorsal root ganglia and is frequently associated with severe pain. Most patients 
suffer acute pain during the rash phase, and in many, prodromal pain or 
discomfort also precedes the rash. The pain of herpes zoster gradually resolves 
with time, but may persist after the acute disease as post-herpetic neuralgia 
for weeks, months or even years. Post-herpetic neuralgia, the most common 
complication of herpes zoster, often results in significant morbidity and 
healthcare resource usage. Early treatment with oral antivirals has been shown 
to accelerate the resolution of postherpetic neuralgia, with therapeutic effects 
particularly evident in the over-50 age group, where pain generally persists for 
longer. Progressively increasing life expectancy of the population translates to 
increasing numbers of cases of herpes zoster. The socio-economic gains 
associated with active management, including use of oral antivirals where 
indicated, to speed resolution of pain and post-herpetic neuralgia, readily 
justify additional cost.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/47.suppl_1.1
PMID: 11160029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Prev Med. 2001 Feb;32(2):156-62. doi: 10.1006/pmed.2000.0790.

The cost-effectiveness of public postsecondary education subsidies.

Muennig P(1), Fahs M.

Author information:
(1)Robert J. Milano Graduate School, New School University, Health Care Policy 
Research Center, 66 5th Avenue, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10011, USA. 
pm124@erols.com

BACKGROUND: Although educational attainment is a well-recognized covariate of 
health status, it is rarely thought of as a tool to be used to improve health. 
Since fewer than 40% of U.S. citizens have a college degree, it may be possible 
for the government to improve the health status of the population by assuming a 
larger burden of the cost of postsecondary education. This paper examines the 
costs and health effects of a government subsidy for public postsecondary 
education institutions.
METHODS: All high school graduates in 1997 were included in a decision analysis 
model as a hypothetical cohort. Data from the U.S. Department of Education, the 
World Health Organization, and the National Center for Health Statistics were 
used as model inputs. Results. Relative to the present educational system, a 
federal subsidy for public and private colleges equal to the amount now paid by 
students for tuition and living expenses would save $6,176 and avert 0.0018 of a 
disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) per person annually if enrollment increased 
5%. The overall savings among 1997 high school graduates would be $17.1 billion 
and 4,992 DALYs would be averted per year relative to the present educational 
system. If enrollment increased by just 3%, $3,743 would be saved and 0.0011 
DALYs would be averted per person. An enrollment increase of 7% would lead to 
savings of $8,610 and 0.0025 DALYs would be averted per person relative to the 
present educational system.
CONCLUSIONS: If the government were to offer a full subsidy for college tuition 
at public universities, both lives and money would be saved, so long as 
enrollment levels increased. Providing a free postsecondary education for 
students attending public schools may be more cost-effective than most health 
investments.

Copyright 2001 American Health Foundation and Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.2000.0790
PMID: 11162341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Jan;36(1):21-8. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00205-9.

Prolonged longevity of hypopituitary dwarf mice.

Bartke A(1), Brown-Borg H, Mattison J, Kinney B, Hauck S, Wright C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale, IL 62901-6512, USA. abartke@som.siu.edu

In two types of mutant dwarf mice, congenital deficiencies in pituitary function 
are associated with remarkably increased life expectancy. In this review, we 
will describe the key phenotypic characteristics of these animals, the evidence 
that they exhibit delayed aging, and the mechanisms that are suspected to 
account for their prolonged longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00205-9
PMID: 11162909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. FEBS Lett. 2001 Jan 19;488(3):133-8. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)02397-8.

Expression of telomerase inhibits hydroxyl radical-induced apoptosis in normal 
telomerase negative human lung fibroblasts.

Ren JG(1), Xia HL, Tian YM, Just T, Cai GP, Dai YR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, PR China.

In tumor cells telomerase activity is associated with resistance to apoptosis 
and the introduction of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) 
subunit into normal human cells is associated with life span extension of the 
cells. To determine the role of telomerase in regulating apoptosis, telomerase 
negative human embryo lung fibroblasts were transfected with the hTERT gene. 
Unlike the control fibroblasts, the telomerase-expressing cells had elongated 
telomeres and were resistant to apoptosis induced by hydroxyl radicals. The 
results indicate that expression of telomerase and, thus, the maintenance of 
telomere length in normal human somatic cells caused resistance to not only 
cellular senescence but also apoptosis. Moreover, we found that hydroxyl 
radical-induced apoptosis in telomerase-expressing and control fibroblasts was 
caspase-3 independent. These findings have revealed a new type of interrelation 
between telomerase and caspase-3, which may indicate that in this case the 
expressed telomerase may inhibit apoptosis at a site not related to the 
caspase-3 cascade.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)02397-8
PMID: 11163759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Ann Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;11(2):127-35. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(00)00186-1.

Prevalence corrected hysterectomy rates and probabilities in Utah.

Merrill RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, College of Health and Human Performance, 
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA

PURPOSE: A life table method is used for correcting hysterectomy rates and 
probabilities for prevalent cases of hysterectomies in the population. Both 
corrected and conventional hysterectomy rates and probabilities are reported.
METHODS: Hysterectomy prevalence estimates are derived from cross-sectional 
hysterectomy and mortality using a life table method. Analysis is based on the 
Utah Hospital Discharge Data Base and State death certificates.
RESULTS: Hysterectomy rates are strongly influenced by age, reaching 150 per 
10,000 for ages 45-49 years. The corresponding corrected hysterectomy rate is 
196. Differences between the corrected and uncorrected cause-specific 
hysterectomy rates tend to be most pronounced at their peaks, particularly later 
in life where the prevalence of hysterectomy is greatest. Probability of 
hysterectomy approaches slightly above 35% over the life span, whereas the 
corrected hysterectomy probability approaches 43%. Probability of hysterectomy 
in the next 10 years is 12.9% for women aged 35 years and 11.7% for women aged 
45 years. Corresponding corrected hysterectomy probabilities are 14.3 and 15.1. 
Higher prevalence of hysterectomy in later ages explains the reverse in 
magnitude of the rates when the correction is applied to the hysterectomy rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Conventional hysterectomy rates are underestimated, particularly in 
older age groups. A prevalence correction of the rates and probabilities is 
necessary to fully understand the potential health related consequences and 
impact of this medical procedure in the population.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(00)00186-1
PMID: 11164129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Health Policy. 2001 Mar;55(3):227-31. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00129-9.

Educational differences in health expectancy in Madrid and Barcelona.

Martínez-Sánchez E(1), Gutiérrez-Fisac JL, Gispert R, Regidor E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Universidad Rey Juan 
Carlos, Madrid, Spain.

Educational differences in Health Expectancy (HE) among residents older than 24 
years of age in Madrid and Barcelona are evaluated. Death records were linked to 
the 1991 Population Census and self-perceived health from the National Health 
Interview Survey was used. Differences between the higher and the lower 
educational groups in HE at 25 years were: 7.5 years in men and 5.58 years in 
women in Madrid and 9.5 years in men and 13.4 years in women in Barcelona. Since 
HE combines mortality and health status, results presented may have important 
implications for health policy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00129-9
PMID: 11164969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2001 Feb;17(2):93-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0924-8579(00)00333-2.

Changes in strategies for optimal antibacterial therapy in cystic fibrosis.

Ratjen F(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, University of Essen. Hufelandstr. 55, D-45122, Essen, 
Germany. f.ratjen@uni-essen.de

Aggressive antibiotic therapy of bacterial airway infection is one of the main 
reasons for the dramatic increase in life expectancy over the last few decades. 
Staphylococcus aureus and Haemophilus influenzae are the predominant pathogens 
in younger patients, but the choice of antibiotic therapy against these 
pathogens remains highly controversial. There is general agreement that patients 
with pulmonary exacerbations should be treated and many cystic fibrosis (CF) 
centres will also try to eradicate bacteria in the absence of symptoms. 
Prophylactic antibiotic therapy, with anti-staphylococcal medications started at 
the time of diagnosis, is advocated by some groups but its positive effect 
remains unproven. In fact, recent studies have suggested that continuous 
prophylactic treatment with anti-staphylococcal antibiotics may increase the 
risk of early colonisation with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. P. aeruginosa is the 
main pathogen in older children with CF. While chronic airway infection with 
mucoid P. aeruginosa is considered irreversible, both the combination of oral 
ciprofloxacin with inhaled colistin and inhaled tobramycin alone has been used 
successfully in the early phase of colonisation. In patients chronically 
infected with P. aeruginosa, standard treatment of pulmonary exacerbations 
consists of intravenous combination therapy for 2-3 weeks. Controversy exists 
whether this treatment should be performed routinely every 3 months or only in 
the presence of a pulmonary exacerbation. Inhaled antibiotics such as tobramycin 
have been shown to improve lung function and reduce sputum density of P. 
aeruginosa, but both the optimal dose and the duration of therapy are unclear at 
the present time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0924-8579(00)00333-2
PMID: 11165111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Health Place. 2001 Mar;7(1):13-25. doi: 10.1016/s1353-8292(00)00034-4.

Health status and healthy life measures for population health need assessment: 
modelling variability and uncertainty.

Congdon P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Queen Mary and Westfield College, Mile End Road, E1 
4NS, London, UK.

It is increasingly recognised that population health need assessments based on 
the comparison of clinical or demographic end points (e.g. area mortality rates) 
neglect population variation in broader aspects of health status and 
health-related quality of life. Similarly, outcome measures which neglect 
impacts on health-related quality of life may be an inadequate basis for 
assessing the effectiveness of health interventions. This paper reviews issues 
in assessing needs and outcomes at population level based on health status 
valuations. It considers especially the modelling of sources of uncertainty in 
measures of health status by using Bayesian sampling estimation methods which 
produce a distribution of summary outcome measures. The modelling issues are 
illustrated in models for individual level health status from survey responses 
and their incorporation in area life tables to derive total and healthy life 
expectancies. In particular, a health status index derived from Short Form 36 
profile responses in a health and lifestyle survey in a London health authority 
provides a case study of community health needs assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/s1353-8292(00)00034-4
PMID: 11165152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Lung Cancer. 2001 Feb-Mar;31(2-3):335-7. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00173-2.

Male lung cancer patients die earlier in life Austria 1976-1996.

Groman E(1), Kiefer I, Bayer P, Kunze U, Rieder A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine and Nicotine Institute, University of Vienna, 
Rechte Wienzeile 81/1, A-1050 Vienna, Austria. nicotineinstitute@teleweb.at

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00173-2
PMID: 11165416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Control Clin Trials. 2001 Feb;22(1):56-61. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(00)00121-5.

Obtaining event status at the close of the Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study: 
methods and implication for other trials.

Grandits GA(1), Grimm RH Jr, Prineas RJ, Grambsch P, Holland LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA. greg-g@ccbr.umn.edu

The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Trial was a randomized, double-blind clinical 
trial conducted from 1986 to 1992 comparing the efficacy of six antihypertensive 
treatment regimens in 902 participants with stage I hypertension. To satisfy a 
secondary objective of the study, follow-up information on mortality and 
cardiovascular morbidity was collected. For this objective the aim was to 
ascertain the vital and cardiovascular event status as of the last day of the 
trial. This was accomplished by inviting each participant to attend a closeout 
visit shortly after the closeout date. In addition to serving as verification of 
vital status, this visit allowed data collection on nonfatal events that 
occurred between the last clinic visit and the closeout date. During this visit 
the patient was unblinded to study medication and given a medical summary of 
their participation during the trial, as well as a bottle of open-label 
medication. The advantages of a closeout visit are discussed along with a call 
for studies to provide clearer definitions of lost to follow-up and censoring 
times used in life-table analyses, especially when the primary event includes 
both fatal and nonfatal events. Control Clin Trials 2001;22:56-61

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(00)00121-5
PMID: 11165424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Jan;54(1):1-22. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00268-7.

Multiple sclerosis in the Faroe Islands: an epitome.

Kurtzke JF(1), Heltberg A.

Author information:
(1)Neuroepidemiology Section, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, 
NW, Washington, DC 20422, USA.

The Faroe Islands are a semi-independent unit of the Kingdom of Denmark and are 
located in the North Atlantic Ocean between Norway and Iceland. Efforts to 
identify all cases of multiple sclerosis (MS) since 1900 among Faroese have been 
continuing for over a quarter century. As of 1998 prevalence was 66 per 100,000, 
age adjusted to 1960 US population, with a rate of 100 for women and 34 for men. 
Median survival was at 29 to 34 years with no significant difference by sex. 
Faroese with overseas residence indicated that at least 2 years of exposure from 
age 11 on in a high-risk area are required for acquisition of MS. Among native 
resident Faroese the first instance of symptom onset was in 1943, heralding a 
type 1 epidemic of 21 cases. This was followed by three successive epidemics of 
10, 10, 13 cases, with membership in each epidemic defined by calendar time and 
age of exposure. Age at exposure for epidemic I was 11 to 45 years; for later 
epidemics age 11 was the minimum. We believe the source of MS on the Faroes was 
their occupation by British troops for 5 years in World War II. We think they 
introduced a widespread, specific, persistent (but unknown) infection, probably 
asymptomatic, which we call the primary multiple sclerosis affection (PMSA). 
Only a small proportion of those affected with PMSA will years later show any 
clinical signs of MS. Models of transmission of PMSA through successive cohorts 
of Faroese fit the data for epidemics II and III, and predicted the occurrence 
of epidemic IV. The Faroese provide an ideal location to determine the nature of 
PMSA, since the disease has remained geographically stable for 50 years without 
further spread throughout the islands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00268-7
PMID: 11165464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Obstet Gynecol. 2001 Feb;97(2):205-10. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(00)01114-5.

Pregnancy after tubal sterilization with silicone rubber band and spring clip 
application.

Peterson HB(1), Xia Z, Wilcox LS, Tylor LR, Trussell J; US Collaborative Review 
of Sterilization Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine risk factors for pregnancy after tubal sterilization 
with silicone rubber bands or spring clips.
METHODS: A total of 3329 women sterilized using silicone rubber bands and 1595 
women sterilized using spring clips were followed for up to 14 years as part of 
a prospective cohort study conducted in medical centers in nine US cities. We 
assessed the risk of pregnancy by cumulative life-table probabilities and 
proportional hazards analysis.
RESULTS: The risk of pregnancy for women who had silicone rubber band 
application differed by location of band application and study site. The 10-year 
cumulative probabilities of pregnancy varied from a low of 0.0 per 1000 
procedures at one study site to a high of 42.5 per 1000 procedures in the four 
combined sites in which fewer than 100 procedures per site were performed. The 
risk of pregnancy for women who had spring clip application varied by location 
of clip application, study site, race or ethnicity, tubal disease, and history 
of abdominal or pelvic surgery. The probabilities across study sites ranged from 
7.1 per 1000 procedures at 10 years to 78.0 per 1000 procedures at 5 years 
(follow-up was limited to 5 years at that site).
CONCLUSION: The 10-year cumulative probability of pregnancy after silicone 
rubber band and spring clip application is low but varies substantially by both 
clinical and demographic characteristics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(00)01114-5
PMID: 11165583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2001 Feb;94(2):172-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-2115(00)00299-2.

Decision analysis and its application in clinical medicine.

Sarasin FP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hopital Cantonal, 24 Rue Micheli du Crest, 
1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland. francois.sarasin@hcuge.ch

Comment in
    Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2001 Feb;94(2):171.

Decision analysis is increasingly used to address difficult medical problems. 
Case-by-case models designed for individual patients facing complex trade-offs 
in their medical care often help individual clinical decision making, but are 
expensive and time consuming. On the other hand, generic models addressing broad 
clinical questions that can be adapted from one patient to another, can often 
make valid projections about specific outcomes, such as life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and cost-effectiveness issues, and represent a 
useful approach to clinical decision making.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-2115(00)00299-2
PMID: 11165721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;54(2):111-6. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00278-x.

Number needed to treat: caveat emptor.

Wu LA(1), Kottke TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo 
Clinic and Foundation, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
Wu.Lambert@mayo.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Epidemiol. 2002 Jan;55(1):102-3.

Number needed to treat (NNT)-the inverse of the absolute risk reduction 
resulting from an intervention-was introduced as a yardstick to describe the 
harm as well as the benefit of therapeutic maneuvers. Analysis using NNT works 
well when comparing two or more interventions that have their impact over the 
same period of time in similar populations or patients. Under other conditions, 
however, analysis based on NNT can produce results that diverge widely from the 
impact that the interventions can be expected to have on risk of death. This can 
happen either for entire populations or for an individual when comparing NNTs 
for interventions which have their effects on different subsets of the 
population or when comparing interventions which have their effects over 
different periods of time. We demonstrate how this can occur by comparing the 
NNTs and effect of intervention on deaths in a population for automatic 
implantable cardioverter defibrillators (AICDs), heart transplantation, and 
cholesterol lowering through nutritional intervention with plant stanol ester.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00278-x
PMID: 11166524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;54(2):157-65. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00275-4.

Psychometric properties of Aquarel. a disease-specific quality of life 
questionnaire for pacemaker patients.

Stofmeel MA(1), Post MW, Kelder JC, Grobbee DE, van Hemel NM.

Author information:
(1)Heart Lung Centre, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

In cardiac pacing current clinical practice permits the use of ventricular or 
atrioventricular-synchronous pacemakers. However, it is not known which type of 
pacemaker results in superior clinical and patient outcomes. To date, there is 
no feasible and validated disease-specific questionnaire for pacemaker patients 
to assess quality of life (QoL) available. The Aquarel questionnaire was 
developed as a disease-specific extension to the Short-Form-36 (SF-36). A 
cross-sectional study was carried out in 74 pacemaker patients to evaluate 
validity and reliability of this instrument. Items were selected and scales 
constructed based on factorial analysis. Internal consistency, content validity 
and test-retest reliability were moderate to excellent. Correlations with the 
SF-36 scales, pacing mode and functional tests were as hypothesized, 
demonstrating the individual value and distinctiveness of the Aquarel subscales. 
The results support the feasibility and usefulness of evaluating QoL in 
pacemaker patients when using Aquarel as an extension to the SF-36.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00275-4
PMID: 11166531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2001 Feb;37(2):137-45. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(00)00109-8.

Cancer and age in the USA.

Balducci L(1), Beghe' C.

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, USA. 
balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Cancer in the older person has become an increasingly common problem with the 
aging of the population. The goal of this paper is to review the influence of 
age on cancer biology and cancer management. Specific interactions of cancer and 
aging include: Increased incidence of cancer with the age: This association may 
be reported to three factors: duration of carcinogenesis; increased 
susceptibility of older tissues to late stage carcinogens, and systemic effects 
of aging, including immune-senescence and enhanced cytokine production. 
Biological behavior of cancer: With aging, the prognosis of certain neoplasms, 
including acute myelogenous leukemia and large-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
worsens, whereas the behavior of other tumors becomes more indolent. In these 
biologic variations one may recognize both a 'seed" effect (different tumor 
cells) and a "soil" effect (different ways in which the older tumor host handles 
tumor growth. Goals of prevention and treatment: Given the limited 
life-expectancy of older individuals and reduced tolerance of clinical 
intervention, the main goal is compression of morbidity, rather than 
prolongation of survival. Cancer prevention in the older person: In virtue of 
increased susceptibility to environmental carcinogens, the older person appears 
an ideal candidate for primary prevention of cancer, including chemoprevention; 
though randomized controlled studies have not been performed, the older person 
may benefit from secondary prevention (screening), when the average 
life-expectancy is 3 years or longer. Cancer treatment: The risk of surgical 
complications increases only slightly with age for elective surgery, but 
increases dramatically for emergency surgery. Radiation therapy appears a 
valuable method of cancer treatment in patients of all ages. Chemotherapy can be 
made safer by the following provisions: use of hemopoietic growth factors for 
patients aged 70 and older receiving moderately toxic chemotherapy (CHOP and 
CHOP-like); maintenance of hemoglobin levels at 12 g/dl with erythropoietin; 
adjustment of the dose of renally excreted agents to the glomerular filtration 
rate; selection of the best candidates for chemotherapy based on comprehensive 
geriatric assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(00)00109-8
PMID: 11166587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2001 Feb;37(2):147-52. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(00)00104-9.

Life expectancy, comorbidity and quality of life: the treatment equation in the 
older cancer patients.

Repetto L(1), Comandini D, Mammoliti S.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica 1, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul 
Cancro, Largo Rosanna Benzi 10, 16132 Genova, Italy. repetto@hp380.ist.unige.it

With ageing, function preservation and maintenance of quality of life represent 
a major goal in an increasing proportion of patients. Life expectancy is a 
function of age, comorbidity, disability and cancer type and stage. 
Decision-making involves a delicate balance among all these factors, evaluation 
of treatment related complications of the overall effects of cancer and cancer 
treatment on the patients' quality of life. Despite several instruments for the 
assessment of quality of life being validated, none have been calibrated to the 
special requirements of the older patients. The structured interview 
administered by a trained clinician represents a standard approach for geriatric 
research and even for clinical practice because of the frailty of the older 
population. The combination of this approach with the self-administered 
questionnaire appears the most effective way to minimise missing data in 
collecting information for patients unable to complete the form.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(00)00104-9
PMID: 11166588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Womens Health Issues. 2001 Jan-Feb;11(1):40-2. doi: 
10.1016/s1049-3867(00)00083-9.

Panel 2: Finding solutions through partnerships, education, and 
technology--speaker 2.

Kobbe AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Life and Human Development, USDA/Cooperative State Research, Education 
and Extension Service, Washington, DC, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1049-3867(00)00083-9
PMID: 11166598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 2001 Feb;80(2):152-7.

Carcinoma of the cervical stump. The radiumhemmet series 1959-1987. Treatment 
and prognosis.

Hellström AC(1), Sigurjonson T, Pettersson F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecological Oncology, Radiumhemmet, Karolinska Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this retrospective study is to evaluate the longterm 
prognosis for cervical stump cancer compared to matched controls with cancer in 
an intact uterus.
METHODS: From 1959 to 1987, 145 patients were treated for an infiltrating 
carcinoma of the cervical stump at Radiumhemmet representing 2.2% of all 
cervical cancers. Three control cases to each case were selected from the cohort 
of cervical carcinoma cases - matched to year of treatment, stage, histology and 
age (plus, minus 2 years). Actuarial survival was calculated for cases and 
controls. Survival differences were analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier technique. 
The age distribution for cases ranged between 36 and 84 years with a mean age of 
60.6 years. The mean age for the control series is 9 years of age (range 35-86 
years). Among the cases 87.6% were squamous cell carcinoma and 12.4% were 
adenocarcinomas. Treatment of carcinoma of the uterine stump at Radiumhemmet 
followed the same modality as was practised for ordinary cervical cancer cases 
i.e. two brachyradium applications with 3 weeks interval followed by external 
irradiation. The dose of irradiation from the intracavitary application given to 
the stump cancers was lower than that given to comparable cases of the common 
cervical cases.
RESULTS: No evidence was found of poorer longterm prognosis for radiologically 
treated squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine stump compared to that of the 
ordinary cervical carcinomas. Stump cancers of the adenocarcinoma type had a 
worse prognosis than adenocarcinomas in an intact uterus (p<0.07) and also 
compared with stump cancers of the squamous epithelial type (p=0.05). The 
complication rate was higher for the stump cancer cases compared with that for 
cervical cancers in intact uterus. The mean time interval from subtotal 
hysterectomy to the stump cancer diagnosis was 17.6 years with a range from 1 to 
46 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent discussions argue for a better sexual function after 
subtotal hysterectomy. Our study gave no convincing argument in terms of poorer 
prognosis for radiologically treated carcinoma of the uterine stump compared to 
that of the total cervical cancer series. It is thus necessary to weigh the 
possible gains with subtotal hysterectomy against the relatively low risk to 
fall victim of a stump cancer. Complications following surgery, as well as 
possible physiologic and sexual functions of the cervix, should be taken into 
account.

PMID: 11167211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2000 Apr;11(2):144-53.

A 5-year prospective clinical and radiographic study of non-submerged dental 
implants.

Weber HP(1), Crohin CC, Fiorellini JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Department of Periodontology, Harvard 
School of Dental Medicine, 188 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
hpweber@hms.harvard.edu

Osseointegrated implants as anchors for various prosthetic reconstructions have 
become a predictable treatment alternative. It was expected that implants 
required submucosal placement during the healing period for successful tissue 
integration. However, it has been demonstrated that healing and long-term health 
of implants could be achieved with equal predictability in a 1-stage, 
non-submerged approach. This prospective 5-year study not only calculates 
implant success by life table analysis, but also evaluates the correlation 
between observed bone level changes with clinical parameters as measured by 
suppuration, plaque indices, bleeding indices, probing depth, attachment level 
and mobility. A total of 112 ITI dental implants were inserted in different 
areas of the jaws. Clinical and radiographic parameters were evaluated annually 
for 5 years, whereas a portion of the study group for which 6-year evaluations 
were available were included in the life-table analysis. The overall success 
rate after 5 years in service was 99.1%, while after 6 years it was reduced to 
95.5% due to the fracture of 3 implants in 1 patient. The mean crestal bone loss 
experienced during the first year was 0.6 mm followed by an annual yearly loss 
of approximately 0.05 mm. No significant differences could be found between the 
amount of bone loss measured at each of the yearly follow-up visits. This 
suggests that statistically the followed implants did not show any 
radiographically measurable bone loss following the initial period of bone loss 
associated with implant placement and osseointegration. Low levels of 
correlation between the individual and cumulative clinical parameters with 
radiographically measured bone loss suggests that these parameters are of 
limited clinical value in assessing and predicting future peri-implant bone 
loss.

PMID: 11168205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2000;11 Suppl 1:33-58. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2000.011s1033.x.

The scientific basis for and clinical experiences with Straumann implants 
including the ITI Dental Implant System: a consensus report.

Cochran DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78284-7894, USA. cochran@uthscsa.edu

Successful endosseous implant therapy requires integration of the implant with 
bone, soft connective tissue and epithelium. This report from a consensus 
conference on Straumann dental implants including the ITI Dental Implant System 
documents the interaction of these nonsubmerged one-piece implants with the oral 
tissues and reviews clinical studies supporting the high success achievable with 
these implants in patients. Light and electron microscopy reveal that epithelial 
structures similar to teeth are found around the implants. A connective tissue 
zone exists between the apical extension of the junctional epithelium and the 
alveolar bone. This connective tissue comprises a dense circular avascular zone 
of connective tissue fibers surrounded by a loose vascular connective tissue. 
The histologic dimensions of the epithelium and connective tissue comprising the 
biologic width are similar to the same tissues around teeth. The nonsubmerged 
one-piece design of the Straumann implants, which have been used for over 20 
years, has set a standard in implant dentistry, with other implants now being 
manufactured and placed using similar techniques. Straumann implants have an 
endosseous portion that is either coated with a well-characterized and 
well-documented titanium plasma-sprayed surface or is sandblasted and acid 
attacked. Both surfaces have been shown to have advantages for osseous 
integration compared to machined and other smoother implant surfaces. These 
advantages include greater amounts of bone-to-implant contact, more rapid 
integration with bone tissue, and higher removal torque values. The lack of 
component connection at or below the alveolar crest provides additional 
benefits. Component connection at the alveolar crest, as seen with submerged 
implants, results in microbial contamination, crestal bone loss and a more 
apical epithelial location. Numerous human clinical trials document the 
successful use of Straumann implants in a variety of indications and areas of 
the mouth. These include prospective long-term trials using strict criteria of 
success and life table analyses. Taken together, the clinical studies reveal 
that Straumann implants can be used predictably in partially edentulous and 
completely edentulous maxilla and mandibles with high success rates. 
Furthermore, the animal and microscopic studies reviewed provide a scientific 
basis for the integration of Straumann implants with bone, connective tissue and 
epithelium.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2000.011s1033.x
PMID: 11168256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Jan;66(1):11-7. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00301.x.

Multiple myeloma in elderly patients: presenting features and outcome.

Rodon P(1), Linassier C, Gauvain JB, Benboubker L, Goupille P, Maigre M, Luthier 
F, Dugay J, Lucas V, Colombat P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Haematology, Centre Hospitalier Général, 
Blois, France. rodon.philippe@wanadoo.fr

Few studies have been performed regarding multiple myeloma (MM) in elderly 
patients. We report a retrospective series of 130 unselected patients with MM 
aged 75 yr or more at diagnosis. Presenting features were identical to those 
reported in younger patients, except for a higher rate of infection. Heavy 
comorbidity was characteristic of unselected geriatric patients. Ninety-four 
patients received conventional chemotherapy. The response rate was 62%. 
Treatment toxicity was mild. Median survival was 22 months. Durie-Salmon (DS) 
clinical stages II and III MM were severe and often led to death, while 
significantly more patients with DS stage I MM died from unrelated causes 
(p<0.0001). Univariate analysis showed that age > or = 85 yr, performance status 
> or = 2, creatinine level > or = 120 micromol/l, beta 2 microglobulin level > 4 
mg/l, C-reactive protein level > 6 mg/l, platelet count < 100 x 10(9)/l, 
presence of infection and lack of response to chemotherapy were adverse 
prognostic factors for survival. In Cox multivariate regression analysis, age > 
or = 85 yr (p<0.0001), performance status > or = 2 (p<0.0001) and creatinine 
level > or = 120 micromol/l (p<0.0001) were independent factors in predicting 
short survival. This study provides evidence that in patients with symptomatic 
MM age should not be considered as a major obstacle to active treatment. 
Prospective clinical trials are needed in this population of patients and should 
include an assessment of quality of life.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00301.x
PMID: 11168502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Jan;66(1):18-23. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00285.x.

Comparison of vincristine, carmustine, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, prednisone 
(VBMCP) and interferon-alpha with melphalan and prednisone (MP) and 
interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) in patients with good-prognosis multiple myeloma: a 
prospective randomized study. Greek Myeloma Study Group.

Zervas K(1), Pouli A, Gregoraki B, Anagnostopoulos N, Dimopoulos MA, Bourantas 
K, Tzilianos M, Barbarousi D, Venetis E, Vyniou N, Maniatis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Theagenion Anticancer Hospital, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to evaluate, in a selected group of 
myeloma patients with favorable prognosis, the effect, on response and survival, 
of polychymotherapy compared with melphalan prednisone, plus interferon in both 
arms.
METHODS: Eighty-nine previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma and 
prognostic factors indicating a good prognosis were randomized to either oral 
melphalan plus prednisone (MP) in combination with recombinant interferon-alpha 
(rIFN-alpha) or combination chemotherapy with vincristine, carmustine, 
melphalan, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (VBMCP) alternating with rIFN-alpha. 
The two treatment groups were comparable in terms of pretreatment 
characteristics.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 67.4% (2.3% complete remission, 65.1% 
partial response) in the MP/IFN-alpha group and 69.1% (14.3% complete remission, 
54.8% partial response) in the VBMCP/IFN-alpha group (p=0.59). There were no 
differences also in response duration and overall survival between the two 
treatment groups. The median response duration was 39.1 months in the 
MP/IFN-alpha group and was not reached in the VBMCP/IFN-alpha group (p = 0.6). 
Overall survival was long in both treatment groups. The estimated 5-yr survival 
was 66% and 62% in the MP/IFN-alpha and VBMCP/IFN-alpha group, respectively 
(p=0.8). Toxicity was modest and treatments were well tolerated. Neutropenia 
(WHO grade 3 or 4) was higher, but not statistically significant, in the 
VBMCP/IFN-alpha group.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study show that in myeloma patients with good 
prognosis, combination chemotherapy alternating with interferon-alpha has no 
advantage over conventional MP plus interferon-alpha, in regard to response 
rate, response duration, and overall survival of patients.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00285.x
PMID: 11168503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Jan;66(1):24-30. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00334.x.

A high serum-soluble interleukin-2 receptor level is associated with a poor 
outcome of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Niitsu N(1), Iijima K, Chizuka A.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Toho University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan. nniitsu@med.toho-u.ac.jp

Soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) is produced by activated T and B cells, 
and the level of this receptor is elevated in patients with non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (NHL). The present study demonstrated that the sIL-2R level was high in 
the following groups of patients with aggressive NHL; those aged > or = 60 yr, 
those with a poor PS, those in Ann Arbor stage III or IV, and those in the high 
intermediate or high risk group according to the International Prognostic Index 
(IPI). Overall survival was significantly poorer when the sIL-2R level was 2000 
U/ml or more. In addition, the overall survival of patients in the low (L) and 
low-intermediate (L-I) risk groups with an sIL-2R level of 3000 U/ml or more was 
significantly poorer, suggesting that the sIL-2R level could be particularly 
useful for identifying patients with a poor prognosis among the L and L-I risk 
groups. Univariate analysis identified some significant prognostic factors, and 
multivariate analysis of these factors plus the five IPI prognostic factors 
showed that the sIL-2R level was an independent prognostic indicator. In 
conclusion, the present findings established that the sIL-2R level is a 
significant independent prognostic factor in patients with aggressive NHL.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00334.x
PMID: 11168504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Jan;66(1):43-9. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00300.x.

Allogeneic or autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT) for relapsed and 
refractory Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: a single-centre 
experience.

Nachbaur D(1), Oberaigner W, Fritsch E, Nussbaumer W, Gastl G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Innsbruck, Austria. 
david.nachbaur@uibk.ac.at

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The aim of the study was to evaluate which patient might 
benefit most from allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) in the treatment of 
relapsed and/or refractory lymphoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-eight consecutive lymphoma patients receiving 
either autologous (n = 24) or allogeneic (n = 14) stem cell grafts at our 
institution from 1986 to 1998 were retrospectively analysed regarding overall 
survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), transplant-related mortality (TRM), 
and relapse incidence (RI). Uni- and multivariate analyses were performed to 
identify patient characteristics predictive for outcome after SCT.
RESULTS: The probabilities of OS, DFS, TRM, and relapse were 57%, 51%, 29%, and 
30% following autologous and 43%, 43%, 29%, and 38% following allogeneic SCT. 
Disease status (sensitive versus refractory) and the time interval between 
diagnosis and SCT were the most powerful predictive parameters for OS and TRM, 
whereas elevated serum LDH levels were signifcant in determining relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with elevated serum LDH levels and bone marrow 
involvement at the time of transplantation allogeneic was superior to autologous 
SCT and resulted in better outcome due to a lower relapse incidence strongly 
suggesting the existence of a graft-versus-lymphoma effect.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00300.x
PMID: 11168507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Eur J Haematol. 2001 Jan;66(1):50-6. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00331.x.

An ethnic role for chronic, but not acute, graft-versus-host disease after 
HLA-identical sibling stem cell transplantation.

Remberger M(1), Aschan J, Lönnqvist B, Carlens S, Gustafsson B, Hentschke P, 
Klaesson S, Mattsson J, Ljungman P, Ringdén O.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation, and Department of Clinical 
Immunology, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge Hospital, Sweden. 
Mats.Remberger@impi.ki.se

Among 424 HLA identical siblings undergoing stem cell transplantation, 364 were 
Scandinavians and 60 represented other ethnic groups. The cumulative 
probabilities of acute graft-versus-host disease grades II-IV were similar in 
both groups, 17% in Scandinavians and 12% in the others, p = 0.4. In a 
multivariate analysis, less effective immune suppression with cyclosporine or 
methotrexate alone (p = 0.001), recipient seropositive for three to four herpes 
viruses (p = 0.004), CMV-seropositive recipient (p = 0.05) and early engraftment 
(before day 15) (p = 0.05) were independent risk-factors for acute GVHD grades 
II-IV. The cumulative probabilities of chronic GVHD were 47% and 68% in the two 
ethnic populations, respectively (p = 0.004). In multivariate analysis, higher 
patient age (p < 0.001), non-Scandinavian population (p < 0.001) and immunised 
female donor to male recipient (p = 0.03) were independent risk factors for 
chronic GVHD. The higher incidence of chronic GVHD could not be explained by 
differences in HLA antigen frequencies. The cumulative probabilities of relapse 
were 37% in the both groups. This suggests that the Scandinavian population is 
more homogeneous with regard to minor histocompatibility antigens important for 
chronic, but not acute GVHD.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2001.00331.x
PMID: 11168508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Cancer. 2001 Feb 1;91(3):490-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20010201)91:3<490::aid-cncr1027>3.0.co;2-l.

Prognostic factors in patients with locally advanced pancreatic carcinoma 
receiving chemoradiotherapy.

Ikeda M(1), Okada S, Tokuuye K, Ueno H, Okusaka T.

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology Division, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The combination of radiation therapy and chemotherapy 
(chemoradiotherapy [CRT]) has been accepted as standard therapy for patients 
with locally advanced pancreatic carcinoma (PC). This study investigated 
prognostic factors in patients with locally advanced PC receiving CRT.
METHODS: Fifty-five consecutive patients with locally advanced PC, who received 
concurrent radiotherapy (50.4 grays) and chemotherapy using 5-fluorouracil or 
cisplatin, were analyzed retrospectively to investigate prognostic factors.
RESULTS: Median survival time and overall survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 
301 days, 35.1% and 2.4%, respectively. By multivariate analysis using the Cox 
proportional hazards model, performance status of 0-1 (P < 0.01), absence of 
regional lymph node swelling (P < 0.01), and serum CA 19-9 level of less than 
1000 (P = 0.02) were independent favorable prognostic factors. A prognostic 
index based on the coefficients of those prognostic factors was used to classify 
patients into three groups with good, intermediate, and poor prognoses. The 
median survival times for these three groups were 410, 239, and 143 days, 
respectively (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The results may be helpful in predicting life expectancy, 
determining treatment strategies, and designing future clinical trials.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20010201)91:3<490::aid-cncr1027>3.0.co;2-l
PMID: 11169931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Am J Ind Med. 2001 Feb;39(2):121-32. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0274(200102)39:2<121::aid-ajim1000>3.0.co;2-h.

