Mortality in dry-cleaning workers: an update.

Ruder AM(1), Ward EM, Brown DP.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45226, USA. amr2@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: A cohort of 1,708 dry-cleaning workers identified from union records 
was exposed to perchloroethylene (PCE), a known animal carcinogen and probable 
human carcinogen, for at least 1 year before 1960. Many workers also had 
exposure to Stoddard solvent, a petroleum-based dry-cleaning solvent.
METHODS: Vital status was updated through 1996 and life table analyses 
conducted.
RESULTS: The cohort had excess cancer mortality (271 deaths, standardized 
mortality ratio [SMR] 1.25, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.11-1.41). Elevated 
SMRs for tongue, bladder, esophagus, intestine, lung, and cervical cancer, 
pneumonia, and diseases of the stomach and duodenum were statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSION: The current study confirms findings of prior updates and other 
studies that dry-cleaning workers have excess cancer mortality at several sites. 
Although important lifestyle and socioeconomic risk factors exist for both 
cervical and esophageal cancer mortality, excesses of these sites in the PCE 
only subcohort and among workers with longer duration of PCE exposure suggest an 
association with PCE exposure.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0274(200102)39:2<121::aid-ajim1000>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 11170155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Clin Infect Dis. 2001 Feb 1;32(3):419-30. doi: 10.1086/318502. Epub 2001 Jan
26.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 2 management strategies for 
infected total hip arthroplasty in the elderly.

Fisman DN(1), Reilly DT, Karchmer AW, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and 
Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA. dfisman@caregroup.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Mar 15;34(6):868-70.
    Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Mar 15;34(6):870-4.

Optimal management of infected total hip arthroplasty poses a major challenge to 
clinicians. Exchange arthroplasty is usually advocated but has high rates of 
surgical morbidity and is expensive. Debridement with prosthesis retention is 
associated with less morbidity, but high rates of relapsed infection have been 
described. To estimate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of these 2 
strategies among older patients, we used a Markov model to simulate patients' 
projected lifetime clinical course in hypothetical cohorts of 65-year-old and 
frail 80-year-old men and women. Initial debridement and retention increased 
life expectancy 2.2-2.6 quality-adjusted life months and had a favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratio in all cohorts. Results were most sensitive to the 
annual rate of relapse after debridement and age at initial diagnosis of 
infection. In the absence of prospective clinical trials, debridement and 
retention is a reasonable strategy for treatment of older persons with 
staphylococcal or streptococcal infection and a nonloosened prosthesis.

DOI: 10.1086/318502
PMID: 11170950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;30(1):99-101. doi: 10.1093/ije/30.1.99.

Competing risks analysis using Markov chains: impact of cerebrovascular and 
ischaemic heart disease in cancer mortality.

Llorca J(1), Delgado-Rodríguez M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, University of Cantabria, 
School of Medicine, Santander, Spain. llorcaj@medi.unican.es

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;30(1):102-3.

BACKGROUND: A decrease in cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and ischaemic heart 
disease (IHD) mortality can produce an increase in mortality from other causes, 
even cancer. This problem is called the competing risks problem.
METHODS: A Markov chain is used to analyse the interrelation between CVD, IHD 
and cancer mortalities in Spanish women in 1981 and 1994. We compare the results 
using two models: discarding CVD and IHD mortality (the elimination model) and 
substituting CVD and IHD 1981 mortality rates in 1994 figures (the constant 
model).
RESULTS: Removing mortality from CVD and IHD increases cancer mortality rates in 
women aged > or = 70, and the probability of death from cancer rises from 10.7% 
to 13.3%. In the second model, the use of CVD and IHD 1981 mortality rates in 
1994 data yields slightly lower mortality rates and so the impact of CVD and IHD 
mortality changes in the period 1981 to 1994 is negligible except in elderly 
women.
CONCLUSIONS: Although IHD and CVD mortality have decreased in all age groups of 
Spanish women from 1981 to 1994, this has not had a great impact on cancer 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.1.99
PMID: 11171866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Pediatr Surg. 2001 Feb;36(2):362-5. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2001.20717.

Nephron-sparing surgery for unilateral primary renal tumor in children.

Cozzi DA(1), Schiavetti A, Morini F, Castello MA, Cozzi F.

Author information:
(1)Università di Roma "La Sapienza," Policlinico Umberto I, Pediatric Surgery 
Unit, Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: Definition of the role of nephron-sparing surgery (NSS) in the 
treatment of children with primary unilateral renal tumor (URT).
METHODS: Between January 1992 and June 2000, 28 children with URT were admitted 
to our surgical unit. Criteria for selection of patients eligible for NSS were 
at least 50% of affected kidney preservable and stage I at surgery (frozen 
section biopsies from regional lymph nodes, perirenal fat, and surrounding renal 
parenchyma). Preoperative 2-drug chemotherapy was given to all patients more 
than 6 months of age. Between 1992 and 1995, 3-drug chemotherapy was used after 
NSS. Thereafter, following NSS, 2-drug chemotherapy was given if no microscopic 
residual disease was found on final histologic examination.
RESULTS: NSS was feasible in 10 of 28 children (35%). Enucleation of 6 tumors (1 
metachronous) was performed in 5 patients. NSS was elective in 5 patients, 
mandatory in 3 patients (1 with aniridia and genitourinary anomalies, 1 with 
chronic glomerulonephritis, 1 with bilateral hyperplastic nephroblastomatosis), 
and advisable in 2 patients (1 with familial vesicoureteric reflux and 1 with 
cystic nephroma). Seven children had standard histology nephroblastoma, 1 highly 
differentiated epithelial type nephroblastoma, 1 oncocytoma, and 1 cystic 
nephroma. The only post-NSS complication was macroscopic hematuria in 1 patient. 
None of the patients had a relapse. All children are alive and disease free with 
good functioning of the affected kidney after NSS, at a mean follow-up of 40.7 
months (range, 2 to 100 months).
CONCLUSION: NSS should be considered in selected children with URT, especially 
in patients with increased risk for metachronous tumor or renal disease, and in 
patients with benign or low-grade malignant URT.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2001.20717
PMID: 11172435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Contraception. 2000 Nov;62(5):221-30. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(00)00171-2.

Multicenter study of the lactational amenorrhea method (LAM) III: effectiveness, 
duration, and satisfaction with reduced client-provider contact.

Peterson AE(1), Peŕez-Escamilla R, Labbok MH, Hight V, von Hertzen H, Van Look 
P.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Reproductive Health, Breastfeeding and MCH Division, Department 
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
DC, USA.

The objective of this effort was to assess the use and efficacy of the 
Lactational Amenorrhea Method (LAM) with reduced numbers of client-provider 
contacts. A co-sponsored multicenter study of LAM was performed to test the 
efficacy and acceptability of the method under "post-marketing" conditions, with 
investigator-initiated contact occurring only twice: at the time of intake and 
then again at month 7 of postpartum. These data are assumed to provide an 
assessment of LAM's use, efficacy, and performance that more closely reflects 
the prevailing conditions of these populations during normal use. Three hundred 
and sixty-two subjects were recruited through centers that had participated in 
the previous, more contact-intensive studies. Using a cooperatively developed 
protocol, data were gathered prospectively on at least 10 and up to 50 LAM 
acceptors at nine sites, and entered and cleaned on site. Data were further 
cleaned and analyzed at the Georgetown University Institute for Reproductive 
Health (IRH) and the Department of Nutrition at the University of Connecticut. 
Using country-level and pooled data, descriptive statistics and life tables were 
produced. LAM efficacy in this sample is 100% because there were no pregnancies 
at any of the participating sites. Satisfaction with the method was high, and 
the rate of continuation on to another method after LAM was 66.7% at 7 months 
postpartum. Of the women who had never used family planning prior to LAM, 63.0% 
went on to use another method of family planning in a timely manner. LAM can be 
highly effective as an introductory postpartum family planning method when 
offered in a variety of cultures, health care settings, and industrial and 
developing country locales. Under conditions of limited client-provider contact, 
LAM remains effective and leads to acceptance of another method by about 
two-thirds of the acceptors. Women are able to use LAM effectively without 
extensive counseling or follow-up, with a high level of user satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(00)00171-2
PMID: 11172792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Chemotherapy. 2001 Mar-Apr;47(2):143-9. doi: 10.1159/000048514.

Improved tumor targeting by regional carboplatin application combined with 
Gelfoam. An experimental study on liver tumor-bearing rabbits.

Pohlen U(1), Berger G, Reszka R, Binnenhei M, Buhr HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Benjamin Franklin, Freie 
Universität Berlin, Hindenburgdamm 30, D-12200 Berlin, Germany. SU1110@aol.com

Regional chemotherapy of liver metastases is a promising alternative to systemic 
chemotherapy. Despite a number of theoretical advantages, extended life 
expectancy has only been confirmed in two studies. Since tumors have a 
concentration-dependent response to cytostatics, the primary goal is to increase 
the cytostatic concentration applied in tumor tissue. The aim of this study on 
liver tumor-bearing chinchilla rabbits was to show that the regional application 
of carboplatin leads to an increased concentration in tumor tissue. A further 
increase in carboplatin concentration by additional regional application of 
gelatine powder (Gelfoam) was demonstrated in a subsequent test; regional 
compared to intravenous application increased the carboplatin concentration in 
the tumor tissue by a factor of 12.1 and coapplication with Gelfoam increased 
the cytostatic concentration by a factor of 44.3.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000048514
PMID: 11173817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2):273-8; discussion 278-80. doi: 
10.1067/mva.2001.112701.

The natural history of intermediate and critical vein graft stenosis: 
recommendations for continued surveillance or repair.

Mills JL Sr(1), Wixon CL, James DC, Devine J, Westerband A, Hughes JD.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Arizona 
Health Sciences Center, Tucson 85724, USA. jmills@u.arizona.edu

OBJECTIVE: Duplex ultrasound surveillance (DUS) after autogenous lower extremity 
bypass grafting is controversial. Specific criteria mandating graft revision are 
not uniform. It has been suggested that grafts harboring critical stenoses 
undergo revision, whereas those with intermediate stenoses undergo arteriography 
with selective repair. We sought to define the natural history and determine the 
risk of graft occlusion associated with unrepaired vein graft stenoses.
METHODS: We analyzed serial vascular laboratory and clinical data of 156 
autogenous infrainguinal vein grafts in 142 patients. Grafts were categorized 
into three groups according to the first DUS-detected (index) lesion: (1) normal 
(peak systolic velocity [PSV] < 200 cm/s, velocity ratio [V(r)] < 2); (2) 
intermediate stenosis (200 cm/s < PSV < 300 cm/s, 2 < V(r) < 4); and (3) 
critical (PSV > 300 cm/s, V(r) > 4). Our policy was to repair grafts with 
critical lesions and monitor all others. The risks of stenosis progression, 
graft revision, and graft thrombosis for each group were compared.
RESULTS: Serial DUS was normal in 100 (64%) grafts. The incidence of graft 
thrombosis in the normal group was 3% per year (mean follow-up, 27.5 months). 
Intermediate lesions developed in 32 grafts (20%) and were followed. Among these 
32 grafts with intermediate stenoses, 63% progressed to critical and were 
revised, and 32% resolved or stabilized (mean follow-up, 26 months). Only one 
graft occlusion occurred in grafts with intermediate lesions subjected to serial 
DUS monitoring (incidence 1.5% per year, P = not significant). In the third 
group, 16 of 25 grafts with critical lesions were successfully revised and 
remain patent. In nine cases, critical lesions were not repaired, resulting in 
seven (78%) occlusions, all within 4 months of DUS detection.
CONCLUSIONS: Serial surveillance is safe and effective for grafts with 
intermediate stenoses. The graft occlusion rate for such grafts with careful 
monitoring is no different from grafts without stenosis, and therefore, 
arteriography is not indicated in the absence of progression to critical 
stenosis. The short-term risk of graft occlusion in the presence of an unrevised 
critical stenosis is nearly 80%. These data have important clinical implications 
concerning the natural history of vein graft lesions.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.112701
PMID: 11174778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2):281-7; discussion 287-8. doi: 
10.1067/mva.2001.111810.

Distal thoracic aorta as inflow for the treatment of chronic mesenteric 
ischemia.

Farber MA(1), Carlin RE, Marston WA, Owens LV, Burnham SJ, Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 
27599-7212, USA. Mark_Farber@med.unc.edu

PURPOSE: Mesenteric revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) 
traditionally involves antegrade or retrograde bypass graft originating from the 
supraceliac or infrarenal aorta. The distal thoracic aorta (DTA) may provide a 
better inflow source than the abdominal aorta. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate the results with the DTA used as inflow for the surgical treatment of 
CMI.
METHODS: All patients undergoing mesenteric revascularization for CMI with 
grafts originating from the DTA were identified from 1990 to 1999. A ninth 
interspace thoracoretroperitoneal incision was used for exposure, and distal 
aortic flow was maintained by use of a partial occlusion clamp.
RESULTS: Eighteen consecutive patients with CMI underwent mesenteric bypass 
grafting with the DTA used as inflow. All patients were admitted with chronic 
abdominal pain or weight loss, with two (12%) requiring urgent revascularization 
because of acute exacerbation of chronic symptoms. Fourteen (78%) patients had 
both celiac and superior mesenteric artery bypass grafts placed, and three (17%) 
patients had superior mesenteric artery grafts alone. There was one (6%) 
perioperative death and three (17%) major complications. There was no kidney 
failure, mesenteric infarction, or spinal cord ischemia. The life-table survival 
rate was 89%, 89%, and 76% at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. All 18 patients 
remained symptom free and required no additional procedures to assist patency. 
There was no evidence of graft stenosis or occlusion (100% patency) for those 
grafts evaluated objectively during the mean follow-up of 34.8 months (range, 
1-97 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Antegrade mesenteric revascularization with the DTA used as inflow 
is associated with low morbidity and mortality rates. Furthermore, it provides 
excellent midterm patency and survival results and should be considered as a 
primary approach for reconstruction of patients with CMI.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111810
PMID: 11174779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2):443. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.111985.

The UK small aneurysm trial.

Schermerhorn ML, Cronenwett JL.

Comment on
    J Vasc Surg. 2000 Feb;31(2):217-26.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111985
PMID: 11174805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2 Suppl):S21-6. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.111660.

Improved survival after endoluminal repair with second-generation prostheses 
compared with open repair in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms: a 
5-year concurrent comparison using life table method.

May J(1), White GH, Waugh R, Ly CN, Stephen MS, Jones MA, Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to compare the outcome of consecutive 
patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) treated concurrently by means of 
open repair (OR) and endoluminal repair (ER) with second-generation prostheses 
by the same surgeons during a defined interval.
METHODS: Between May 1995 and December 1998 second-generation (low profile, 
fully supported, modular) endoprostheses were implanted in 148 patients. These 
patients, together with 135 patients treated concurrently with OR during the 
same period, comprised the study group of 283 patients. Patient selection was 
based on aneurysm morphology. Those patients who were anatomically suitable for 
ER were treated with this method. The ER and OR groups were similar with regard 
to age, sex, and size of AAA. The ER group contained high-risk patients 
considered unfit for OR (n = 46), and the OR group contained high-risk patients 
who were anatomically unsuitable for ER (n = 19). Outcome criteria in both 
groups were survival and successful aneurysm repair. Success in the ER group was 
defined as exclusion of the aneurysm sac and stability or reduction in AAA 
maximum transverse diameter. Persistent endoleaks were classified as failures, 
regardless of whether they were subsequently corrected with secondary 
endovascular intervention. Data were analyzed with the life table method. The 
minimum period of follow-up for all patients was 18 months.
RESULTS: The perioperative mortality rate was 5.9% in the OR group and 2.7% in 
the ER group (not significant). There was a statistically significant difference 
between the survival curves of the two groups in favor of the ER group when 
analyzed with the log-rank test (P =.004). The Kaplan-Meier curve for graft 
failure for the ER group revealed a 3-year graft success probability of 82%. 
Survival probability with successful repair in the OR group at 3 years was 85%.
CONCLUSIONS: A concurrent comparison of ER with second-generation prostheses 
versus OR demonstrated a significant difference in survival in favor of the ER 
group. The probability of survival with successful repair at 3 years was similar 
in both groups.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111660
PMID: 11174808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2 Suppl):S93-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.111666.

Selecting patients for combined femorofemoral bypass grafting and iliac balloon 
angioplasty and stenting for bilateral iliac disease.

Aburahma AF(1), Robinson PA, Cook CC, Hopkins ES.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of West Virginia 
University, Charleston Area Medical Center, Charleston Division, USA.

PURPOSE: This study examines the selection of patients for combined 
femorofemoral bypass (FFB) grafting and iliac balloon angioplasty (IBA) and 
stenting for bilateral iliac occlusive disease (successively or simultaneously) 
and the correlation of the length and location of stenoses of the donor iliac 
artery to the success of FFB grafts.
METHODS: Forty-one patients with long iliac occlusion and significant 
contralateral iliac stenosis were treated with combined FFB grafting and IBA and 
stenting, which were performed simultaneously or percutaneously within 1 to 2 
days before surgery. Stenting was performed for suboptimal IBAs. IBA/graft 
patency was evaluated by duplex scanning/ankle-brachial index at 1, 3, 6, and 12 
months and every 12 months thereafter. A life-table analysis of patency was 
performed, according to the length of stenosis as classified by the Society of 
Cardiovascular Interventional Radiology (group A, < 3 cm and 3-5 cm; group B, > 
5 cm).
RESULTS: Indications for surgery were limb salvage (22%), rest pain (44%), and 
claudication (34%). The mean follow-up time was 34.1 months. Perioperative 
complications were 7% for group A versus 62% for group B (P = .0007) with no 
perioperative deaths or amputations. Stenting was needed in 12 of 13 patients 
(92%) in group B versus four of 28 patients (14%) in group A (P < .0001) and in 
11 of 12 external iliac artery lesions versus five of 29 common iliac artery 
lesions (P < .0001). The overall early success rate was 100% for group A and 62% 
for group B (P = .0028). The primary patency rates at 1, 2, and 3 years were 
96%, 85%, and 85% for group A, respectively, and for group B were 46%, 46%, and 
31%, respectively (P < .01). The secondary patency rates for group A at 1, 2, 
and 3 years were 100%, 96%, and 87%, respectively; and for group B were 62%, 
54%, and 27%, respectively (P < .001). The overall primary and secondary patency 
rates for common iliac and external iliac artery lesions were similar (72% and 
72% versus 67% and 75%, respectively). The overall limb salvage rates were 96% 
for group A and 85% for group B. Seven of 13 patients (54%) of group B, in 
contrast with 0 of 28 patients in group A, had to undergo a revision of the 
procedure within 30 days (P < .01).
CONCLUSION: Combined use of IBA and stenting and FFB grafting is effective and 
durable and can be performed simultaneously, if the donor iliac stenosis length 
is 5 cm or less. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty/stenting of stenoses of 5 
cm or more fail to support FFB grafting in most patients; therefore, their 
combination should be questioned.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111666
PMID: 11174818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2 Suppl):S129-34. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.111673.

The Ancure endografting system: an update.

Makaroun MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
USA.

The Ancure endografting system (Guidant Cardiac and Vascular Division, Menlo 
Park, Calif) features a unibody, nonsupported woven polyester graft designed to 
treat abdominal aortic aneurysms. It is constructed in tube, bifurcated, and 
aortoiliac configurations. The attachment system consists of a frame with four 
independent V-shaped double hooks that penetrate the arterial wall for fixation. 
There are separate attachment systems at the proximal and distal ends of the 
endoprosthesis. In September 1999, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
approved the tube and bifurcated devices for general use. The aortoiliac device 
is under present consideration of the FDA. Phase II and III clinical trials of 
the system enrolled over 870 patients from the end of 1995 to the summer of 
1999. The device was deployed successfully in 90% to 96% of cases, depending on 
the configuration and the phase of the trial. Mortality rates were similar to 
those of concurrent open surgical control rates, but serious morbidity was 
reduced. Long-term follow-up of the bifurcated group from phase II showed only 
one migration and no ruptures. Aneurysm size reduction in this group was noted 
in 51.3% of patients at 1 year and 68.5% at 2 years. In the same subset, type I 
endoleaks were noted in 2.7% at 1 year and 1.3% at 2 years. All postoperative 
imaging studies were reviewed by a core laboratory facility. The advantages of 
the ancure system include solid fixation, flexibility in accommodating 
morphologic changes, and excellent long-term clinical performance. The 
disadvantages include a large introducer system and the potential for limb 
obstruction by compression or angulation. However, limb compromise responds well 
to intraluminal stenting. The expected FDA approval of the aortoiliac device and 
a larger variety of graft sizes should expand the number of patients who can be 
treated with this system.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111673
PMID: 11174824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Cardiol Rev. 2000 Mar-Apr;8(2):96-102. doi:
10.1097/00045415-200008020-00006.

What a physician needs to know about cost-effectiveness.

Heidenreich PA(1), Lee TT.

Author information:
(1)111C Cardiology, Palo Alto VA Medical Center, 3801 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, 
CA 94304, USA. pah@smi.stanford.edu.

Comment in
    Cardiol Rev. 2000 Mar-Apr;8(2):103.

The cost of medical care in the United States continues to spiral upward, partly 
as a result of new technological breakthroughs that promise improved length of 
life and quality of life for patients. But how good are these treatments in 
everyday practice? How do we make policies for adopting innovations that improve 
outcome but also increase costs? Cost-effectiveness studies are designed to 
answer these questions. They reveal important aspects of a particular medical 
decision and inform treatment choices by systematically analyzing the 
relationships between the costs and outcomes of alternative health care 
interventions. This article provides an introduction to the field of 
cost-effectiveness analysis and describes an approach to interpreting the 
rapidly proliferating cost-effectiveness literature.

DOI: 10.1097/00045415-200008020-00006
PMID: 11174880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2000 Oct-Dec;46(4):325-30. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302000000400031.

[Clinical and nutritional aspects in patients with cystic fibrosis: 20 years of 
follow-up in the Clinical Hospital-Federal University of Minas Gerais 
(HC-UFMG)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Reis FJ(1), Oliveira MC, Penna FJ, das GR Oliveira M, Oliveira EA, Monteiro AP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Pediatria, Unidade de Pneumologia Pediátrica do Hospital das 
Clínicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common severe autosomal recessive 
disease in caucasian population. The life expectancy of patients with CF has 
improved dramatically during the past three decades. A better approach to these 
patients depends on a better knowledge of clinical course and prognosis of CF. 
The purpose of the present study was to identify aspects clinical and 
nutritional on admission at Center of CF (HC-UFMG).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Over a period of 20 years 127 patients with CF were 
admitted, submitted to a systematic protocol and prospectively followed. Data 
associated with demographic conditions, clinical presentation, nutritional and 
laboratory findings on admission were studied. The median follow-up was 44 
months. The genotype was performed by PCR method. The survival analysis was 
carried out by Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: The median age at diagnosis was 33 months. Sixty-one per cent of 
patients at diagnosis had chronic pulmonary and gastrointestinal symptoms. 
Seventeen patients (16%) were homozygous for DF508 mutation and 30 (28%) were 
heterozygous. There was a standard prevalence of malnutrition of 63% at 
diagnosis and of 45% at the end of follow up. Twenty patients (15,7%) died 
during follow up. The estimated probability of survival after one year from 
diagnosis was 96% and after five years was 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: CF diagnosis has been later in our country and the survival is 
shorter than in developed countries. Management of cystic fibrosis in pediatric 
specializing centers results in a better nutritional state in spite of clinical 
progression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302000000400031
PMID: 11175567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2000 Nov-Dec;33(6):565-72. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822000000600008.

[The ACHEI Program: Chagas' disease awareness through comprehensive education in 
the municipality of Maringá, Northwest Paraná, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Araújo SM(1), Andó MH, Cassarotti DJ, Mota DC, Borges SM, Gomes ML.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Análises Clínicas, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Av. 
Colombo 5790, 87020-900 Maringá, PR, Brazil. marqueslima@wnet.com.br

This study analyzes 131 chagasic patients from different endemic areas that came 
to the Chagas' disease laboratory at the Maringa State University. The subjects 
discovered they were infected principally because they presented symptoms (58%) 
or donated blood (29.4%). During etiologic treatment for Trypanosoma cruzi, 
45.2% of benznidazole users complained of side effects. Based on these data, the 
ACHEI program (Chagas' Disease Awareness through Comprehensive Education) was 
developed, which is a multiprofessional/interdisciplinary extension project. 
Monthly meetings are held that are divided into two parts: The first half of the 
meetings provide specific information, including the distribution of brochures 
explaining Chagas' disease transmission, symptoms and treatment. The second half 
of the meetings focuses on psycho-social assistance and includes topics such as 
self-esteem and personal responsibility. The meetings provide an environment for 
chagasic patients to share their concerns regarding post-diagnosis quality of 
life, fear, anxiety, stigma and family and social group relationships. In short, 
the meetings offer an opportunity for patients to reflect on their situation and 
to discover ways to deal with their disease.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822000000600008
PMID: 11175587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Med Care. 2001 Jan;39(1):61-71. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200101000-00008.

Imputing physical health status scores missing owing to mortality: results of a 
simulation comparing multiple techniques.

Revicki DA(1), Gold K, Buckman D, Chan K, Kallich JD, Woolley JM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, MEDTAP International, Bethesda, Maryland 
20814, USA. Revicki@medtap.com

BACKGROUND: Having missing data complicates the statistical analysis of 
health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) data and, depending on the extent and 
nature of missing data, can introduce significant bias in treatment comparisons.
OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the bias associated with 4 different imputation methods 
for estimating physical health status (PHS) scores missing as a result of 
mortality.
METHODS: A simulation study was conducted in which we systematically varied 
mortality rates from 0% to 30% and change in PHS scores from -20 to 20 on a 
100-point scale for a 2-group clinical trial with follow-up over 18 months. The 
4 imputation methods were last value carried forward (LVCF), arbitrary 
substitution (ARBSUB), empirical Bayes (BAYES), and within-subject modeling 
(WSMOD). Pseudo-root mean square residuals (RMSRs) and differences between true 
and estimated slopes were used to evaluate how well the imputation methods 
reproduced the true characteristics of the simulated population data.
RESULTS: ARBSUB and BAYES methods have the smallest RMSRs compared with LVCF and 
WSMOD across all mortality rates. As the rate of missing data resulting from 
mortality increased, all imputation techniques deviated more from population 
data. The BAYES technique was best at reproducing group slopes in cases with 
differential mortality rates or when mortality rates exceeded 15%. WSMOD and 
LVCF significantly underestimated changes in PHS.
CONCLUSIONS: The different imputation methods produced comparable results when 
there were few missing data. The BAYES approach most closely estimated true 
population differences and change in PHS regardless of missing data rates. These 
findings are limited to physical health and functioning measures.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200101000-00008
PMID: 11176544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Feb 12;161(3):454-60. doi: 10.1001/archinte.161.3.454.

The effect of age on pain, function, and quality of life after total hip and 
knee arthroplasty.

Jones CA(1), Voaklander DC, Johnston DW, Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, PT, Room 2137, Dentistry/Pharmacy Bldg, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2N8. 
ajones@pharmacy.ualberta.ca

Comment in
    Acta Orthop. 2016 Jul;87 Suppl 1:9-23.

BACKGROUND: As utilization rates for total joint arthroplasty increase, there is 
a hesitancy to perform this surgery on very old patients. The objective of this 
prospective study was to compare pain, functional, and health-related 
quality-of-life outcomes after total hip and total knee arthroplasty in an older 
patient group (> or =80 years) and a representative younger patient group (55-79 
years).
METHODS: In an inception community-based cohort within a Canadian health care 
system, 454 patients who received primary total hip arthroplasty (n = 197) or 
total knee arthroplasty (n = 257) were evaluated within a month prior to surgery 
and 6 months postoperatively. Pain, function, and health-related quality of life 
were evaluated with the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities (WOMAC) 
Osteoarthritis Index and the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36).
RESULTS: There were no age-related differences in joint pain, function, or 
quality-of-life measures preoperatively or 6 months postoperatively. 
Furthermore, after adjusting for potential confounding effects, age was not a 
significant determinant of pain or function. Although those in the older and 
younger groups had comparable numbers of comorbid conditions and complications, 
those in the older group were more likely to be transferred to a rehabilitation 
facility than younger patients. Regardless of age, patients did not achieve 
comparable overall physical health when matched with the general population for 
age and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: With increasing life expectancy and elective surgery improving 
quality of life, age alone is not a factor that affects the outcome of joint 
arthroplasty and should not be a limiting factor when considering who should 
receive this surgery.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.3.454
PMID: 11176772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. JAMA. 2001 Feb 7;285(5):535-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.285.5.535.

Burden of disease--implications for future research.

Michaud CM(1), Murray CJ, Bloom BR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population and Development Studies, 9 Bow St, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA. cmichaud@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2001 Oct 17;286(15):1833; author reply 1834-5.
    JAMA. 2001 Oct 17;286(15):1833-4; author reply 1834-5.
    JAMA. 2001 Oct 17;286(15):1834; author reply 1834-5.

One overall challenge for public health and medicine in the future is to 
allocate available resources effectively to reduce major causes of disease 
burden globally and to decrease health disparities between poor and affluent 
populations. The major risk factors for death and disability worldwide are 
malnutrition; poor water supply, sanitation, and personal and domestic hygiene; 
unsafe sexual behavior; tobacco use; alcohol use; occupational hazards; 
hypertension; physical inactivity; illicit drugs; and air pollution. The 
challenge for research in the 21st century is to maintain and improve life 
expectancy and the quality of life that was achieved for most of the world's 
population during the 20th century.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.285.5.535
PMID: 11176854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Hong Kong Med J. 2000 Dec;6(4):341-2.

Women's health in Hong Kong.

Lau EM.

PMID: 11177153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Feb 6;134(3):249; author reply 250-1. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-3-200102060-00018.

Cost-effectiveness of sildenafil.

Beaird J.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2000 Jun 20;132(12):933-7.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-3-200102060-00018
PMID: 11177340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2001 Feb;4(1):89-100. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-001-0051-1.

Achalasia.

Dunaway PM(1), Wong RK.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Service, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, 6900 Georgia 
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20307-5001, USA.

The optimal treatment of achalasia includes several options and presents a 
challenge for most gastroenterologists. There are numerous patient variables 
that must be assessed including age, degree of symptoms, duration of disease, 
desires of each patient, and related comorbidities. Treatment includes both 
medical and surgical options, with medical therapy further subclassified into 
pharmacologic and pneumatic dilation. Pneumatic dilations with a polyethylene 
dilator (sizes of 3.0, 3.5, and 4.0 cm) and laparoscopic myotomy represent the 
most common forms of therapy. A graduated increase in dilator size, based on 
symptomatic response, minimizes complications and is successful in more than 90% 
of patients. Further dilations or adjustment of pharmacologic therapy should be 
based on symptoms, weight gain, and a timed barium meal. Referral for myotomy 
should be considered for patients who do not respond to medical therapy or 
individuals that do not desire pneumatic dilations. Most patients responding to 
botulinum toxin (Botox; Allergan, Irvine, CA) injections will require repeat 
treatment at 3- to 6-month intervals. Due to cost constraints, Botox therapy 
should be reserved for patients who are at an increased risk from possible 
complications of a dilation or surgery, or those with less than 2 years of life 
expectancy. The most cost-effective course of therapy per patient cured over a 
5-year period is pneumatic dilation, then Botox, and finally laparoscopic 
myotomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-001-0051-1
PMID: 11177686


535. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Jan;69(1):57-65. doi: 10.1067/mcp.2001.113181.

Pharmacokinetics of nicotine in healthy elderly people.

Molander L(1), Hansson A, Lunell E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Pharmacia & Upjohn Consumer Healthcare, 
Lund, Sweden. Lars.Molander@eu.pnu.com

BACKGROUND: Mortality hazards of smoking extend well into later life; this 
suggests that smoking cessation will continue to improve life expectancy in 
older people. The pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of nicotine have not been 
studied in elderly subjects. Drug disposition and pharmacodynamic responsiveness 
to nicotine may change with age, and conclusions founded on data from studies of 
younger populations may not apply to elderly populations. Our aim was to assess 
the pharmacokinetics of nicotine in healthy elderly subjects compared with 
healthy adults.
METHODS: Twenty healthy elderly subjects (age, 65-76 years) and 20 healthy adult 
subjects (age, 22-43 years) were given an intravenous infusion of 0.028 mg/kg of 
nicotine over 10 minutes. Nicotine and cotinine concentrations were measured in 
plasma and urine. Heart rate and blood pressure were monitored.
RESULTS: For most adult and elderly subjects nicotine distributed according to a 
two-compartment system. Even though there was a large interindividual variation 
within and overlap between groups, nicotine total clearance (-23%), nonrenal 
clearance (-21%), renal clearance (-49%), volume of central compartment (-37%), 
volume of distribution at steady state (-17%), and cotinine renal clearance 
(-18%) were statistically significantly decreased in elderly subjects compared 
with adults. Maximal heart rate response to nicotine was decreased in the 
elderly subjects (-29%).
CONCLUSION: Even though statistically significant differences were observed, the 
disposition of nicotine does not seem to be changed to a clinically important 
extent in elderly subjects compared with younger adults.

DOI: 10.1067/mcp.2001.113181
PMID: 11180039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Health Econ. 2001 Jan;10(1):39-52. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1050(200101)10:1<39::aid-hec563>3.0.co;2-e.

Theory versus practice: a review of 'willingness-to-pay' in health and health 
care.

Olsen JA(1), Smith RD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway. 
jano@ism.uit.no

This paper is based upon an extensive review of 71 willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
surveys of health and health care published in English during the period 
1985--1998. The aim of the paper is to outline the arguments advanced for the 
superiority of WTP over quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) as a measure of 
benefit of health care programmes, and to review how empirical WTP studies 
adhere to their implications. An important argument is that WTP enables a more 
comprehensive valuation of benefits than QALYs. Our main focus is therefore to 
provide a careful review of the scenario descriptions used in the surveys, 
according to which types of benefits are being valued, and how comprehensively 
the descriptions are presented. Furthermore, the 'cost-benefit argument', that 
WTP can assist in improving social efficiency, is discussed before we inquire 
into the extent to which the studies actually compare WTP with social costs.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1050(200101)10:1<39::aid-hec563>3.0.co;2-e
PMID: 11180568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Health Econ. 2001 Jan;10(1):79-82. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1050(200101)10:1<79::aid-hec567>3.0.co;2-z.

Economic evaluation alongside n-of-1 trials: getting closer to the margin.

Karnon J(1), Qizilbash N.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK. 
hesrjdk@brunel.ac.uk

The n-of-1 trial is a particularly flexible form of randomized controlled trial 
that involves a single patient receiving multiple episodes of alternative 
therapies. Although n-of-1 trials are only applicable in certain treatment 
areas, the collection of economic data within such trials may provide unique 
advantages. This paper illustrates the issues around the use of economic n-of-1 
trials with a hypothetical example, and discusses their potential for the 
estimation of individualized cost-effectiveness.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1050(200101)10:1<79::aid-hec567>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 11180571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Dev Genes Evol. 2000 Apr;210(4):212-6. doi: 10.1007/s004270050306.

Neuroectodermal and endodermal expression of the ascidian Cdx gene is separated 
by metamorphosis.

Hinman VF(1), Becker E, Degnan BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology and Entomology, University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4072, Australia.

Ascidians are a group of invertebrate chordates that exhibit a biphasic life 
history, with chordate-specific structures developing during embryogenesis 
(dorsal neural tube and notochord) and metamorphosis (pharyngeal gill slits and 
endostyle). Here we characterize the expression of a caudal/Cdx gene homologue, 
Hec-Cdx, from the ascidian Herdmania curvata. Vertebrate Cdx genes are expressed 
at gastrulation and in the posterior of the developing neural tube and endoderm. 
Hec-Cdx expression is initiated at the earliest stages of gastrulation, with 
peaks in RNA abundance occurring first during neurulation and tailbud extension 
and then in 3- to 5-day-old juveniles. Hec-Cdx is expressed in a pair of cells 
in the anterior lip of the blastopore in the late gastrula which form the most 
posterior portion of the neural plate. During tailbud formation expression is 
maintained in and solely restricted to these cells. During metamorphosis 
expression is localized to the intestine of the juvenile. These data, along with 
data for the H. curvata Otx gene, suggest that the evolution of the novel 
ascidian biphasic body plan was not accompanied by a deployment of these genes 
into new pathways but by a temporal separation of tissue-specific expression.

DOI: 10.1007/s004270050306
PMID: 11180824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2001 Feb;54(2):235-8.

[Tropical endomyocardial fibrosis or Davies disease. A case report].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández FJ(1), Berjón J, Ruiz V, Alcasena MS, Imizcoz MA, Lezáun R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital de Navarra, Irunlarrea, 3, 31008 Pamplona, 
Spain.

Endomyocardial fibrosis is a restrictive endomyocardial myocardiopathy of 
unclear etiology, it is an endemic disease in tropical and subtropical 
countries. The patients are usually young and the disease has an insidious onset 
and poor prognosis. Surgery may lead to clinical improvement and prolong life 
expectancy, although it is only a palliative treatment and does not stop disease 
progression. We present a case of endomyocardial fibrosis from Equatorial Guinea 
with severe clinical involvement and clear improvement following surgery. The 
current etiopathogenic hypothesis, the results obtained and the management of 
these cases, which are infrequent in Spain, are discussed. We also comment upon 
the differences with the historically related Loeffler syndrome according to one 
of the etiopathogenic hypotheses.

PMID: 11181314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Feb 15;19(4):980-91. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.4.980.

Computer program to assist in making decisions about adjuvant therapy for women 
with early breast cancer.

Ravdin PM(1), Siminoff LA, Davis GJ, Mercer MB, Hewlett J, Gerson N, Parker HL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San 
Antonio, TX 78284, USA. pravdin@swog.org

PURPOSE: The goal of the computer program Adjuvant! is to allow health 
professionals and their patients with early breast cancer to make more informed 
decisions about adjuvant therapy.
METHODS: Actuarial analysis was used to project outcomes of patients with and 
without adjuvant therapy based on estimates of prognosis largely derived from 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End-Results data and estimates of the efficacy 
of adjuvant therapy based on the 1998 overviews of randomized trials of adjuvant 
therapy. These estimates can be refined using the Prognostic Factor Impact 
Calculator, which uses a Bayesian method to make adjustments based on relative 
risks conferred and prevalence of positive test results.
RESULTS: From the entries of patient information (age, menopausal status, 
comorbidity estimate) and tumor staging and characteristics (tumor size, number 
of positive axillary nodes, estrogen receptor status), baseline prognostic 
estimates are made. Estimates for the efficacy of endocrine therapy (5 years of 
tamoxifen) and of polychemotherapy 
(cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil-like regimens, or 
anthracycline-based therapy, or therapy based on both an anthracycline and a 
taxane) can then be used to project outcomes presented in both numerical and 
graphical formats. Outcomes for overall survival and disease-free survival and 
the improvement seen in clinical trials, are reasonably modeled by Adjuvant!, 
although an ideal validation for all patient subsets with all treatment options 
is not possible. Additional speculative estimates of years of remaining life 
expectancy and long-term survival curves can also be produced. Help files supply 
general information about breast cancer. The program's Internet links supply 
national treatment guidelines, cooperative group trial options, and other 
related information.
CONCLUSION: The computer program Adjuvant! can play practical and educational 
roles in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.4.980
PMID: 11181660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2001 Mar;12(3):589-597. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V123589.

Survival in recipients of marginal cadaveric donor kidneys compared with other 
recipients and wait-listed transplant candidates.

Ojo AO(1), Hanson JA(1), Meier-Kriesche HU(1), Okechukwu CN(1), Wolfe RA(2), 
Leichtman AB(1), Agodoa LY(3), Kaplan B(1), Port FK(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(3)The United States Renal Data System, Division of Kidney, Urologic, and 
Hematologic Diseases, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney 
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

An increasing number of cadaveric kidney transplants are now performed with 
organs from donors who would have been deemed unsuitable in earlier times. 
Although good allograft outcomes have been obtained with these marginal donor 
transplants, it is unclear whether recipients of marginal kidney transplants 
achieve a reduction in long-term mortality as do recipients of "ideal" kidneys. 
Patients with end-stage renal disease registered on the cadaveric renal 
transplant waiting list between January 1, 1992, and June 30, 1997, were studied 
for mortality risks according to three outcomes: wait-listed on dialysis 
treatment with no transplant (WLD); transplantation with marginal donor kidney 
(MDK); and "ideal" or optimal donor kidney transplantation (IDK). Thirty-four 
percent of wait-list registrants had received a cadaveric kidney transplant by 
June 30, 1998. Of these, 18% received a marginal kidney that had one or more of 
the following pretransplant factors: donor age >55 yr, non-heartbeating donor, 
cold ischemia time >36 h, and donor hypertension or diabetes mellitus of > 10 yr 
duration. Five-year graft and patient survival was 53% and 74% for MDK 
recipients compared with 67% (P< 0.001) and 80% (P< 0.001) for IDK recipients. 
Adjusted annual death rate and estimated remaining life time was 6.3%, 4.7%, and 
3.3% and 15.3 yr, 20.4 yr, and 28.7 yr for WLD, MDK, and IDK groups, 
respectively. The average increase in life expectancy for MDK recipients 
compared with the WLD cohort was 5 yr, although this benefit varied from 3 to 10 
yr depending on the recipient's characteristics. It is concluded that 
transplantation of a marginal kidney is associated with a significant survival 
benefit when compared with maintenance dialysis.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V123589
PMID: 11181808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. QJM. 2001 Feb;94(2):107-12. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/94.2.107.

With increasing ageing in Western populations, what are the prospects for 
lowering the incidence of coronary heart disease?

Walker AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, Department of Tropical Diseases, School of 
Pathology of the University of the Witwatersrand, and the South African 
Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, South Africa. 
alexw@mail.saimr.wits.ac.za

Coronary heart disease (CHD), rare in the early 1900s, in the 1970s was 
responsible for almost a third of deaths in Western populations. Although its 
mortality rate has fallen in the last 20 years, considerably in certain 
populations, it remains the leading cause of death, and there is little evidence 
of any fall in its incidence rate. The primary risk factors, which include 
pattern of diet, smoking practice, and level of physical activity, are well 
known, but explain only approximately 50% of variation in its occurrence. 
Despite the numerous health improvement recommendations made, alterations in 
