diet have been relatively slight. Although smoking practice has halved in some 
populations, its prevalence is now rising in the young. The extent of physical 
activity is low, compared with that in the past, and may even be decreasing in 
the young. With the general ageing of populations, the near absence of strong 
encouragement from the state, and individuals' general failure to reduce risk 
factors significantly, the chances of decreases in the incidence of CHD appear 
remote.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/94.2.107
PMID: 11181987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Urology. 2001 Feb;57(2):217-24. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(00)00993-6.

Prostate-specific antigen best practice policy--part I: early detection and 
diagnosis of prostate cancer.

Carroll P(1), Coley C, McLeod D, Schellhammer P, Sweat G, Wasson J, Zietman A, 
Thompson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California, San Francisco, Medical 
Center, San Francisco, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(00)00993-6
PMID: 11182324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Science. 2000 Oct 6;290(5489):52-3. doi: 10.1126/science.290.5489.52.

Life expectancy in Eastern Europe.

Brainerd EL.

DOI: 10.1126/science.290.5489.52
PMID: 11183148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2000 Jul;5(3):170-5. doi:
10.1177/135581960000500308.

Priority-setting in New Zealand: translating principles into practice.

Ashton T(1), Cumming J, Devlin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, University of Auckland, Auckland.

In May 1998 the New Zealand Health Funding Authority released a discussion paper 
which proposed a principles-based approach to setting purchasing priorities that 
incorporates the economic methods of programme budgeting and marginal analysis, 
and cost-utility analysis. The principles upon which the process was to be based 
are effectiveness, cost, equity of health outcomes, Maori health and 
acceptability. This essay describes and critiques issues associated with 
translating the principles into practice, most particularly the proposed methods 
for evaluating the effectiveness and measuring the cost of services. It is 
argued that the proposals make an important contribution towards the development 
of a method for prioritizing services which challenges our thinking about those 
services and their goals, and which is systematic, explicit, and transparent. 
The shift towards 'thinking at the margin' and systematically reviewing the 
value for money of competing claims on resources is likely to improve the 
quality of decision-making compared with the status quo. This does not imply 
that prioritization can, or should, be undertaken by means of any simple 
formula. Any prioritization process should always be guided by informed 
judgement. The approach is more appropriate for some services than for others. 
Key methodological issues that need further consideration include the choice of 
instrument for measuring health gains, the identification of marginal services, 
how to combine qualitative and quantitative information, and how to ensure 
consistency across different levels of decision-making.

DOI: 10.1177/135581960000500308
PMID: 11183628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Healthc Exec. 2000 Sep-Oct;15(5):suppl 1-3 following 68.

Key industry facts. American College of Healthcare Executives.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11183957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Health Serv J. 2000 Jan 6;110(5686):16-8.

Elderly people. The long goodbye.

Bryan J.

PMID: 11184384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Health Serv J. 2000 Jan 27;110(5689):suppl 6-7.

Cystic fibrosis. Growing pains.

Bryan J.

PMID: 11184399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Health Econ. 2000 Sep;19(5):755-66. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00048-5.

Incorporating option values into the economic evaluation of health care 
technologies.

Palmer S(1), Smith PC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

Despite uncertainty being intrinsic to economic evaluation of health care, 
existing techniques for handling uncertainty remain underdeveloped compared to 
the formal techniques commonly applied in the business sector. This paper 
develops an alternative approach to handling uncertainty in economic evaluation 
based on 'option-pricing' techniques. The presence of uncertainty and the degree 
of irreversibility of a decision make it clear that some flexibility in the 
timing of a decision is often a desirable characteristic with an economic value. 
We demonstrate how option-pricing techniques can be applied to the decision 
rules for economic evaluation in health care. The key determinants of an option 
value are the presence and type of uncertainty; the ability to defer a decision; 
and the irreversibility of the decision. The relative significance of each of 
these for a particular economic evaluation will depend on the particular 
characteristics of the technology under consideration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00048-5
PMID: 11184803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. US News World Rep. 2000 Oct 30;129(17):30.

Power-plant pollution. Is it killing people?

Curry A.

PMID: 11184928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Aging Soc Policy. 2000;11(2-3):61-70. doi: 10.1300/J031v11n02_07.

Increasing life expectancy, retirement age, and pension reform in the German 
context.

Schm√§hl W(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Social Policy Research, University of Bremen, Germany. 
schmaehl@zes.uni-bremen.de

DOI: 10.1300/J031v11n02_07
PMID: 11185050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Health Serv J. 2000 Sep 7;110(5721):33.

Data briefing. Inputs, process and outcomes.

Appleby J.

PMID: 11185202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Eff Clin Pract. 2000 Sep-Oct;3(5):250-5.

Enhancing the use of mammography: effectiveness and cost.

Rimer BK, Lipscomb J.

Comment on
    Eff Clin Pract. 2000 Sep-Oct;3(5):213-20.

PMID: 11185331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Provider. 2000 Nov;26(11):28-30, 33-4, 38-41.

Can science add years to our lives?

Wagner L.

PMID: 11185335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Can J Gastroenterol. 2000 Sep;14(8):685-90. doi: 10.1155/2000/501201.

The economic impact of AIDS in Africa.

Whiteside AW(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and HIV/AIDS Research Division, University of Natal, South 
Africa. freeman@shep.und.ac.za

The experience of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in Africa is very 
different from that in the developed world. In the West, AIDS affects few 
people, and for those who are infected, it is an increasingly manageable 
illness. In Africa, huge numbers of people are being infected - mainly young 
adults through sexual intercourse. This is having a dramatic effect on key 
demographic indicators. Child mortality in some countries has doubled, while up 
to 25 years of life expectancy have been lost. The economic impact of AIDS is 
difficult to establish, but it is certainly leading to increased poverty in 
African families and communities. Development advances are being reversed, but 
the impact is incremental rather than catastrophic.

DOI: 10.1155/2000/501201
PMID: 11185534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2000 Jun;54(3):311-3. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1819.2000.00692.x.

Survey of sleep-health and lifestyle of the elderly in Okinawa.

Uezu E(1), Taira K, Tanaka H, Arakawa M, Urasakii C, Toguchi H, Yamamoto Y, 
Hamakawa E, Shirakawa S.

Author information:
(1)College of Education, University of the Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japan.

A total of 788 people (aged from 60 to 93 years) living in the Okinawa 
prefecture, renowned for the long life expectancy of its citizens, were randomly 
chosen as subjects. A questionnaire based on lifestyle and sleep-health was 
distributed. Following this, subjects were chosen in groups of nine from the 
good sleep-health group and then from the poor sleep-health group based on the 
results of the survey; their physical activities were then recorded using 
actigraphs for 1 week. This study suggested that lifestyle, such as exercise, 
walking and short naps, occupies an important position in the maintenance and 
improvement of sleep-health. It also verified the reliability of the 
sleep-health risk index and the questionnaire.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1819.2000.00692.x
PMID: 11186091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Manag Care. 2000 Aug;9(8):38-40, 43-7.

Prospective value-based assessment of new health care technologies and 
practices.

Girod CS, Axene DV.

PMID: 11186514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Health Econ. 2000 Nov;19(6):1007-26. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00055-2.

Income-related inequality in life-years and quality-adjusted life-years.

Gerdtham UG(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. heug@hhs.se

We estimate the income-related inequality in Sweden with respect to life-years 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). We use a large data set from Sweden 
with over 40,000 individuals followed up for 10-16 years, to estimate the 
survival and quality-adjusted survival in different income groups. For both 
life-years and QALYs, we discover inequalities in health favouring the higher 
income groups. For men (women) in the youngest age-group (20-29 years), the 
number of QALYs is 43.7 (45.7) in the lowest income decile and 47.2 (49.0) in 
the highest income decile.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00055-2
PMID: 11186842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Radiat Res. 2000 Dec;154(6):733-4;discussion 734-5.

Age-time patterns for cancer and noncancer excess risks in the atomic bomb 
survivors.

Preston DL(1), Pierce DA, Shimizu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

PMID: 11187021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2000;101(9):477-83.

World Health Report 2000: the position of Slovak Republic.

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Limbova 14, SK-833 01 
Bratislava, Slovakia. ginter@upkm.sk

The World Health Organization (WHO) published the analysis of the health systems 
in 191 member states of WHO with important data (mostly for the year 1999) on 
probability of dying under age 5 years and between ages 15 and 59 years, life 
expectancy at birth, disability-adjusted life expectancy--DALE which is defined 
as the expectation of life lived in equivalent full health, responsiveness of 
health system, fairness of financial contribution and overall health system 
attainment. The last parameter was based on five weighted components: overall 
level of population health, health inequalities within the population, level of 
health system responsiveness, distribution of responsiveness between population 
and the distribution of health system financial burden within the population. 
Between 149 countries with more than 1 million inhabitants the rank for Slovakia 
(30th) is not bad and is close to Croatia and Poland. The estimates of overall 
health system performance (i.e. how efficiently health systems translate 
financial expenditure into health) belong to the problematic part of the 
report:. In this parameter the health system of USA ranks much lower than Turkey 
or Tunisia and Slovakia ranks lower than Albania. The authors did not take into 
consideration, that the health of population depends not only on health care and 
health expenditure but on many other factors, such as life style, nutrition, 
pollution, etc., which are not influenced by expenditure into health system. 
(Tab. 2, Fig. 6, Ref. 15.)

PMID: 11187049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Am J Manag Care. 2000 Nov;6(21 Suppl):S1089-95.

Managing diabetes for improved health and economic outcomes.

McCulloch D.

The contribution of postprandial glucose to diabetes progression and 
diabetes-related complications lends a new perspective to diabetes management. 
It has been long understood that tightly controlled glucose levels improve 
diabetes outcomes. Clinical studies and simulated models have estimated the 
impact of improved glycemic control on the economic outcomes of this disease, 
reporting that these cost benefits can be both short term and long term. The new 
economics of diabetes management emphasizes improved management through 
strategies such as better adherence to frequency of monitoring guidelines. The 
health and economic benefits have been demonstrated incrementally with improved 
glycemic status. Of additional importance to realizing economic benefits is the 
use of therapies that maintain lower glucose levels while minimizing side 
effects, hypoglycemic episodes, and long-term diabetes-related complications. 
Fast-acting insulins and the newer classes of insulin secretagogues, which 
target postprandial glucose, may pose distinct therapeutic advantages in this 
regard.

PMID: 11187397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Clin Laser Med Surg. 1999 Apr;17(2):69-75. doi: 10.1089/clm.1999.17.69.

Dycal versus Nd:YAG laser and Vitrebond for direct pulp capping in permanent 
teeth.

Santucci PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Dental Education, St. Louis University, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy of laser-assisted direct pulp capping by 
comparing the survival rates of permanent teeth treated with Nd:YAG laser and 
Vitrebond (3M Corporation, St. Paul, MN) direct pulp caps to permanent teeth 
treated with the traditional calcium hydroxide direct pulp cap over intervals of 
up to 54 months.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: While there are case reports and evaluations of various 
laser techniques in the literature, statistical studies comparing the success of 
laser-assisted applications to traditional techniques are needed. This is a 
retrospective investigation of one such laser assisted application.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of all active and inactive patients 
resulted in the identification of 83 patients who received direct pulp caps in a 
total of 93 permanent teeth; 29 with calcium hydroxide and 64 with Nd:YAG laser 
and Vitrebond.
RESULTS: Life table analysis of the data of this retrospective study 
demonstrated that the teeth treated with the laser and Vitrebond direct pulp cap 
showed significantly greater survival rates than those treated with Dycal direct 
pulp cap over intervals of nine to 54 months postoperatively. The cumulative 
proportion of teeth surviving postoperatively for the Dycal (L.D. Caulk 
Corporation, Milford, CT) direct pulp cap was 89.7% at 1 month declining to 
79.4% at 3 months and 76% at 6 months and then continued to decline in the final 
two intervals finishing after 54 months at 43.6%. For the laser and Vitrebond 
direct pulp cap the cumulative proportion surviving stood at 98.4% after 1 
month, declining to 93.8% at 3 months and 90.3% after 6 months but then held 
steady in the final 2 intervals finishing at 90.3% after 54 months.
CONCLUSION: The laser and Vitrebond direct pulp cap produces a significantly 
more predictable pulpal response after the first 6 months than the Dycal direct 
pulp cap. The survival rate of teeth treated with the laser and Vitrebond direct 
pulp cap is significantly greater than those treated with the Dycal direct pulp 
cap over intervals of 9 to 54 months. Direct pulp capping is a worthwhile 
procedure that should be performed when indicated, especially in light of the 
90.3% survival rate achieved with the laser and Vitrebond direct pulp cap at 54 
months.

DOI: 10.1089/clm.1999.17.69
PMID: 11189978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Qual Life Res. 2000;9(5):541-57. doi: 10.1023/a:1008917432368.

The effect of individually assessed preference weights on the relationship 
between holistic utilities and nonpreference-based assessment.

Jansen SJ(1), Stiggelbout AM, Nooij MA, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. S.J.T.Jansen@lumc.nl

In the assessment of health-related quality of life, nonpreference-based methods 
usually show only moderate correlations with utility-based measures. One cause 
may be that patients assign different weights to the various domains of 
health-related quality of life, for which nonpreference-based methods usually do 
not allow. Utilities reflect a weighted sum of these domains. The aim of this 
study is to assess whether the relationship between utility-based methods and 
nonpreference-based measures improves through the use of individual importance 
weights for the various domains of health-related quality of life. For this 
purpose, weights were obtained from 41 early-stage breast cancer patients, both 
before and during treatment, for seven pre-selected health status attributes 
representing important domains of health-related quality of life during 
chemotherapy. The importance weights were combined with the level of functioning 
on the attributes. These scores were regressed against patients' utilities for 
their actually experienced health state during chemotherapy, measured by means 
of a visual analog scale (VAS), a time trade-off (TTO), and a standard gamble 
(SG). Before weighting, the seven attribute scores were more strongly related to 
TTO and SG utilities than the nonpreference-based questionnaires. However, when 
they were combined with the importance weights, only the correlation with the SG 
utilities improved, and only so with the importance weights obtained before 
chemotherapy. In this study, assigning individually assessed preference weights 
to self-reported level of functioning did not result in stronger relationships 
with utilities.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008917432368
PMID: 11190009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2000 Dec;94(10):870-6.

["Medical decision making in the tension field between medical possibilities, 
cost pressure and humanity."].

[Article in German]

Vilmar K(1).

Author information:
(1)Bundes√§rztekammer, K√∂ln.

The progress in medicine has contributed to the fact that for 50 years life 
expectancy in Germany has increased by three to four years per decade. The 
number of older people has considerably increased and at the same time there has 
been a decline in the birthrate with the effect that the portion of the people 
over 60 years, now a quarter of the population, will rise to a third of the 
population in 2040. The dual relationship between patient and physician has 
changed due to the extension of the statutory health insurance to more than 90% 
of the population. Today collective contracts made with the statutory health 
insurance determine the preconditions for entitlement, but often with uncertain 
legal concepts. The expenditure which occurred due to the demographic and 
epidemiologic changes caused the limitations of the contribution rates by the 
legislator. The health insurance funds have implemented further regementations 
by means of health care duties and action for recourse in case of exceeding the 
budget. Thus the politically intended limitation of the resources can bring the 
physician in a decision emergency condition or even in an ethical dilemma. He 
has to observe legal rules, especially in the field of the criminal law and the 
liability law. Thus the financial, organizational and structural deficits in the 
health care system that are resulting from the social legislation are shifted by 
means of the liability law to the individual physician or to other service 
providers. Even treatment guidelines cannot protect them from this because the 
"standard patient" does not exist. What we really need are appropriate reforms 
including adjustments of the insurance structures which offer the insured 
alternatives: Expansion of the financial elements of the statutory health 
insurance Adjustments of the health care structures with integration between the 
outpatient and inpatient sector Restriction of the legislator to the definition 
of framework provisions and service limits Orientation of the health care 
necessities to the health care needs of the patients Economy must not dominate 
over humanity Adjustment of the social legislation and the liability law 
Settlement of the details by the joint self-administration of physicians and 
health insurance funds.

PMID: 11190926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Lancet. 2000 Dec;356 Suppl:s49. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)92035-x.

Public health in eastern Europe.

Demine AK(1).

Author information:
(1)hefrus@glasnet.ru

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)92035-x
PMID: 11191507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Cas Lek Cesk. 2000 Nov 22;139(23):715-21.

[The phenomenon of rectangularization of the survival curve in the Czech 
population as a result of the concept of successful aging and geriatric 
medicine].

[Article in Czech]

Kalvach Z(1).

Author information:
(1)III. intern√≠ klinika 1. LF UK a VFN, Praha.

An overview of conceptions of the successful ageing with positive impacts on the 
improvement of the quality of life, on decreased dependence in activities of 
daily living, and on demands for health-social care in senescence is given. 
Necessity of altering of sanitary services and outlooks on the geriatric 
patients corresponding to the demographic development and improvement of their 
functional state is stressed. Concepts of the upgrowth of the life expectancy 
are given. The phenomenon of rectangularization of the survival curve in the 
population of the Czech Republic during the 20th century is demonstrated and the 
prospect till the middle of 21st century for the population structure, life 
expectancy, longevity index are presented.

PMID: 11191741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 2000 Nov-Dec;34(6):543-8.

Disease emergence and health transitions in the last millennium.

Donaldson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, London. Liam.Donaldson@doh.gsi.gov.uk

For most of the first millennium, average expectation of life was only 30 or 40 
years. The beginning of the 20th century saw the start of improvements, which by 
the century's end meant that a baby boy could expect an average 75 years of 
life, a baby girl even longer. The successes of the 20th century were not 
products of advances in medicine alone, but consequences of the great sanitary 
reforms that fuelled the public health movement in late Victorian Britain. 
However, health challenges also grew and changed: the rise in so-called modern 
epidemics (coronary heart disease, cancer, accidents and mental illness); the 
ageing of the population; the containment of the costs of rapid technological 
advances; the marked and intractable inequalities in health status between rich 
and poor, and between North and South. The dawn of a new millennium sees many of 
these health problems carried over from the late 20th century, whilst 
communicable diseases, once thought conquered, continue to pose a serious threat 
to human health because of their global significance. This paper traces progress 
in the health of the population and identifies some of the key challenges for 
medicine in the 21st century.

PMCID: PMC9665431
PMID: 11191970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000 Dec;83(6):463-8. doi: 10.1007/s004210000309.

Changes in the elastic properties of tendon structures following 20 days 
bed-rest in humans.

Kubo K(1), Akima H, Kouzaki M, Ito M, Kawakami Y, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Sports Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 20 days bed-rest on 
the elastic properties of tendon structures of the human knee extensor muscles 
in vivo. Six healthy men carried out a 6 degrees head-down bed-rest for 20 days. 
Muscle volume and maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) torque of the quadriceps 
femoris muscle significantly decreased by an average of 7.8 (SD 2.7)% and 14.9 
(SD 6.9)%, respectively. Before and after bed-rest, the elongation (l) of the 
tendon and aponeurosis of vastus lateralis muscle was measured directly by 
ultrasonography, while the subjects performed ramp isometric knee extension up 
to MVC. The extent of l tended to be greater after bed-rest. The l above 110 N 
was significantly greater after bed-rest. Furthermore, the mean stiffness after 
bed-rest [35.5 (SD 7.8) N x mm(-1)] was significantly lower than that before 
bed-rest [52.6 (SD 19.2) N x mm(-1)]. The rate of torque development 
significantly reduced after bed-rest by an average of 47%, and the bed-rest 
induced a lengthening in the electromechanical delay (mean 21%). These results 
suggest that bed-rest results in a decrease in the stiffness of tendon 
structures with a reduction of muscle strength and volume. These adaptations of 
the tendon structures to bed-rest would bring about the changes in 
electromechanical delay and rate of torque development.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210000309
PMID: 11192050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000 Dec;83(6):475-80. doi: 10.1007/s004210000310.

The use of magnetic resonance images to investigate the influence of recruitment 
on the relationship between torque and cross-sectional area in human muscle.

Akima H(1), Kuno S, Takahashi H, Fukunaga T, Katsuta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Sports Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Japan. akima@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of recruitment on 
the relationship between peak torque and physiological cross-sectional area 
(PCSA) in human muscle. A group of 11 healthy men participated in this study. 
Isokinetic knee extension torques at seven (0, 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300 
degrees x s(-1)) velocities were determined. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
was performed to calculate PCSA of right quadriceps femoris (QF) muscle. 
Exercise-induced contrast shifts in spin-spin relaxation time (T2)-weighted MRI 
were taken at rest and immediately after repetitive knee-extension exercise and 
T2 of QF were calculated. The MRI pixels with T2 values more than 1 SD greater 
than the means at rest were considered to represent QF muscle that had 
contracted. The area of activated PCSA within the total in QF was expressed as 
percentage activated PCSA and used as an index of muscle recruitment. The PCSA 
correlated with peak torque at 0 degree x s(-1) (r = 0.615, P<0.05); in 
contrast, activated PCSA correlated with peak torque at 120 degrees x s(-1) (r = 
0.603, P<0.05) and 180 degrees x s(-1) (r = 0.606, P<0.05). Additionally, there 
was a significant difference in correlation coefficients between the activated 
PCSA-peak torque relationship and the PCSA-torque relationship (P<0.05). These 
results suggested that muscle recruitment affects the PCSA-torque relationship.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210000310
PMID: 11192052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Public Health Med. 2000 Dec;22(4):518-24. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/22.4.518.

The Global Burden of Disease Study: a useful projection of future global health?

Cohen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Jonniecohen@hotmail.com

One major conclusion of the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBDS) is that the 
global burden of disease will not change significantly from 1990 to 2020, in 
developed regions, developing regions or as a whole. Using the 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY), the Study estimates the burden as a result 
of 107 diseases, accidents and their disabling sequelae, disaggregated with 
respect to cause, sex, age and geographical region. The basic data used to 
construct estimates are sparse, and the DALY as a tool has received many 
criticisms. It obscures the distribution of disease and its impact in terms of 
handicap, and includes several social and economic value judgements. This 
weakens its power as a guide for the rational allocation of health resources at 
any point in time. Does it have use in guiding future planning and preventive 
action? At a global level, exceeding ecological capacity primarily through 
relative overpopulation is likely to be the greatest threat to overall health, 
yet overpopulation is not considered as a risk factor in itself. This reflects 
the understanding of health as an issue of the individual rather than the 
community. Together with the productivity-orientated weighting of DALYs, the 
Study appears to be more concerned with cost-effectiveness of health 
interventions rather than their equity. This underlies the reservations of the 
World Health Organization regarding the Study's use as a rational tool in health 
policy.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/22.4.518
PMID: 11192280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Respirology. 2000 Dec;5(4):403-9.

The rapid diagnosis of smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Lim TK(1), Cherian J, Poh KL, Leong TY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 
mdclimtk@nus.edu.sg

OBJECTIVE: The prompt diagnosis of smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) 
is a clinical challenge. It may be achieved by a number of tests which have 
varying accuracies, costs and degrees of invasiveness. The objective of this 
study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of clinical judgement (empirical), 
the Roche Cobas amplicor assay for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (amplicor), 
acid-fast staining of bronchoalveolar lavage specimens (BAL), nucleic acid 
amplification tests of bronchoalveloar lavage specimens for M. tuberculosis (BAL 
+ NAA), computed tomography (CT) and amplicor assay followed by BAL.
METHODOLOGY: The range of predictive values of the various strategies were 
derived from published data and a new study of 441 consecutive adult patients 
with suspected smear-negative PTB prospectively stratified into three pretest 
risk groups: low, intermediate and high. The cost-effectiveness was evaluated 
with a decision tree model (DATA software).
RESULTS: The incidence of PTB was 5.7% (4% culture positive) for the whole 
group, 95% in the high-risk group, 0.9% in the low-risk group and 3.4% in the 
intermediate-risk group. The sensitivity of the empirical approach was 49% and 
of the amplicor assay was 44%. Patient outcomes were expressed as life 
expectancy for the base case of a 58-year-old man with a pretest probability of 
5.7%. At this low pretest risk the differences in life expectancies between 
tests was < 0.1 years and the empirical approach incurred the lowest cost. 
Sensitivity analysis at increasing pretest risks showed better life expectancies 
(approximately 1 years) for CT scan and test combinations than empirical and 
amplicor for additional costs of US$243-US$309. Bronchoalveolar lavage had the 
worst overall cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the pretest risk of active PTB was a key 
determinant of test utility; that the AMPLICOR assay was comparable to clinical 
judgement; that BAL was the least useful test; and that with increasing risks, 
CT scan and test combinations performed better. Further studies are needed to 
better define patients with intermediate risk for PTB and to directly compare 
the cost-effectiveness of more sensitive nucleic acid amplification tests such 
as the enhanced Gen Probe, CT scan and test combinations/sequences in these 
patients.

PMID: 11192555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Am Coll Surg. 2001 Jan;192(1):38-46. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(00)00778-x.

Hepatic resection for hepatocellular carcinoma in the elderly.

Hanazaki K(1), Kajikawa S, Shimozawa N, Shimada K, Hiraguri M, Koide N, Adachi 
W, Amano J.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Shinshu University School of Medicine, 
Matsumoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although the number of elderly people undergoing surgery for 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has increased because of the prolonged life 
expectancy rate, potential benefits of hepatectomy for elderly patients with HCC 
have not been fully delineated.
STUDY DESIGN: Using medical records, surgical outcomes of HCC in 103 patients 70 
years of age or older undergoing hepatic resection (older group) were clarified 
and compared with those of 283 patients younger than 70 years of age (younger 
group) in this retrospective study. Postresection prognostic factors were 
evaluated by multivariate analysis using Cox's proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in postoperative complication, 
operative mortality, and overall hospital death rates between the two groups. 
Overall 3- and 5-year survival rates for the older group and the younger group 
were 51.0% versus 55.2%, and 42.2% versus 40.0%, respectively (p = 0.95). 
Disease-free 3- and 5-year survival rates for the older group and the younger 
group were 35.2% versus 37.6%, and 16.6% versus 24.2%, respectively (p = 0.66). 
Multivariate analysis revealed that the presence of liver cirrhosis and vascular 
invasion were independently significant factors of poor overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Selected elderly patients with HCC benefited from resection as much 
as young patients, and age by itself may not be a contraindication to surgery. 
Postresection longterm prognosis in the elderly was determined by the presence 
of liver cirrhosis and vascular invasion.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(00)00778-x
PMID: 11192921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Diabetes Care. 2001 Jan;24(1):45-50. doi: 10.2337/diacare.24.1.45.

How cost-effective is the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with diabetes 
but without cardiovascular disease?

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Zowall H, Alexander CM, Weiss TW, Gomes DR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care and the Division of General 
Internal Medicine, Montreal General Hospital, Quebec, Canada. 
mdev@musica.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2001 Jul;24(7):1306-7.

OBJECTIVE: Epidemiological studies have shown that the risk of myocardial 
infarction (MI) in diabetic patients without cardiovascular disease (CVD) is 
comparable to the risk of MI in patients with CVD. We used a validated Markov 
model to compare the long-term costs and benefits of treating dyslipidemia in 
diabetic patients without CVD versus treating CVD patients without diabetes in 
the U.S. The generalizability and robustness of these results were also compared 
across six other countries (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the 
U.K.).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: With use of the Cardiovascular Disease Life 
Expectancy Model, cost effectiveness simulations of simvastatin treatment were 
performed for men and women who were 40-70 years of age and had dyslipidemia. We 
forecast the long-term risk reduction in CVD events after treatment. On the 
basis of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study results, we assumed a 35% 
reduction in LDL cholesterol and an 8% rise in HDL cholesterol.
RESULTS: In the U.S., treatment with simvastatin for CVD patients without 
diabetes was cost-effective, with estimates ranging from $8,799 to $21,628 per 
year of life saved (YOLS). Among diabetic individuals without CVD, lipid therapy 
also appeared to be cost-effective, with estimates ranging from $5,063 to 
$23,792 per YOLS. In the other countries studied, the cost effectiveness of 
treating diabetes in the absence of CVD was comparable to the cost effectiveness 
of treating CVD in the absence of diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Among diabetic men and women who do not have CVD, lipid therapy is 
likely to be as effective and cost-effective as treating nondiabetic individuals 
with CVD.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.24.1.45
PMID: 11194239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Diabetes Care. 2001 Jan;24(1):56-63. doi: 10.2337/diacare.24.1.56.

All-cause mortality in the Canterbury (New Zealand) insulin-treated Diabetic 
Registry population.

Brown LJ(1), Scott RS, Moir CL.

Author information:
(1)School of Geosciences, University of Wollongong, New South Wales, Australia. 
laurie_brown@uow.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To establish all-cause death rates and life expectancies of and risk 
factors for mortality in insulin-treated diabetic individuals living in 
Canterbury, New Zealand.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Insulin-treated diabetic subjects (n = 1,008) on 
the Canterbury Diabetes Registry were tracked over 9 years, and their vital 
status was determined. Death rates were standardized using direct and indirect 
methods. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to model the effects of 
demographic and clinical covariates on survival time.
RESULTS: At study entry, age ranged from 2.9 to 92.7 years, with mean 48.7 +/- 
20.4 years; age at diagnosis was 0.2-88.9 years, mean 34.5 +/- 20.0 years; and 
duration of diabetes was 0.1-58.5 years, mean 14.0 +/- 10.6 years. There were 
303 deaths in 7,372 person-years of follow-up with a standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) of 2.6 (95% CI 2.4-3.0). Relative mortality was greatest for those 
aged 30-39 years (SMR 9.2 [4.8-16.2]). The death rate for the diabetic cohort 
standardized against the Segi world standard population was 16.2 per 1,000. 
Attained age, sex, and clinical subtype were significant predictors of mortality 
The SMR for subjects with type 1 diabetes and age at onset <30 years was 3.7 (CI 
2.7-5.0), 2.2 (1.8-2.6) for those with onset > or =30 years, and 3.1 (2.5-3.7) 
for subjects suspected of having latent autoimmune diabetes in adulthood or 
insulin-treated type 2 diabetes. Life expectancy was reduced for both sexes at 
all ages.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality rates for insulin-treated diabetic individuals remain 
high, resulting in shortened life spans relative to the general population. 
Marked differences in mortality exist between clinical groups of subjects. 
Further research is needed to improve diabetes classification and to clarify 
differences in health outcomes.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.24.1.56
PMID: 11194242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Cancer Radiother. 2000 Nov;4 Suppl 1:109s-112s.

[Methods and results of radical prostatectomy for localized cancer of the 
prostate].

[Article in French]

Zerbib M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, h√¥pital Cochin, 27, rue du Faubourg-Saint-Jacques, 75014 
Paris, France.

A radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer is indicated after 
evaluation of the disease (initial PSA, clinical stage, biopsy mapping, results 
of radiologic explorations with an endorectal MRI) and the patient (age, 
morbidity, life expectancy and wishes of potency conservation). The surgical 
approaches, retropubic or laparoscopic, depend on the surgeon's experience. 
Radical prostatectomy provides good disease-free survival for organ-confined 
disease close to the natural life expectancy. Post-radical prostatectomy 
morbidity is essentially represented by orthostatic incontinence (up to 6.8%), 
stress incontinence (up to 27%) and impotence (30 to 95%), depending on the 
published series and patient age.

PMID: 11194947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2001;121(1-2):26-30. doi: 10.1007/s004020000185.

The GSB total knee arthroplasty. A medium- and long-term follow-up and survival 
analysis.

van Loon CJ(1), Pluk C, de Waal Malefijt MC, de Kock M, Veth RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

From 1981 to 1987, 77 GSB-II total knee arthroplasties were implanted in 65 
patients. There were 23 men and 42 women aged on average 60 years old (range 
30-85 years). The diagnosis was osteoarthritis (OA) in 21 knees, rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) in 44 knees, and other in 12 knees. A clinical and radiological 
follow-up was performed in two stages after a mean of 6.7 years (61 knees) and 
14.8 years (22 knees) to assess the medium- and long-term results and to 
determine if deterioration had occurred after mid-term follow-up. A survival 
analysis was done with two endpoints: (1) revision, and (2) revision, moderate 
or severe pain and lost to follow-up (worst-case scenario). At the last 
follow-up 36 patients (44 knees) had died, 2 patients (2 knees) refused 
examination, and 3 patients (3 knees) were lost to follow-up. Six knees had been 
revised for malposition (1.3%), septic (3.9%) and aseptic (2.6%) loosening. The 
mean Knee Society score after 6.7 and 14.8 years was 85 points (OA 82 points, RA 
87 points). Lateralisation, subluxation or dislocation of the patella was 
present in 8 of 17 knees at the last follow-up. The 6- and 15-year survival 
rates with revision as the endpoint were 95% (CI 89%-100%) and 87% (CI 
65%-100%), respectively. For the worst-case scenario, the 6- and 15-year 
survival rates were 95% (CI 89%-100%) and 56% (CI 0%-100%), respectively. The 
medium- and long-term results of the GSB-II total knee arthroplasty were good, 
and a decline in the knee score did not occur beyond the mid-term follow-up. 
Patella complications were abundant, and a marked decrease in implant survival 
was noted when moderate or severe pain and lost to follow-up were included as 
endpoints.

DOI: 10.1007/s004020000185
PMID: 11195114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Oncology (Williston Park). 2000 Nov;14(11A):221-7.

General guidelines for the management of older patients with cancer.

Balducci L(1), Yates J.

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Community Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, Florida, USA.

Because aging is highly individualized, the best guide to treatment of the older 
patient with cancer may be provided by a comprehensive assessment that evaluates 
such diverse areas as functional status, comorbidity, socioeconomic conditions, 
nutrition, polypharmacy, and the presence or absence of geriatric syndromes. 
Aging is further associated with important pharmacologic changes that involve 
pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and the toxicity profile of the drugs. These 
changes increase the risk of therapeutic complications partly because of the 
different behavior of the disease in an older patient population and partly 
because of a decreased tolerance to treatment in some older patients.

PMID: 11195414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Vestn Oftalmol. 2000 Nov-Dec;116(6):9-13.

[Potentialities of conservative and surgical treatment of patients with 
congenital microphthalmia and anophthalmia].

[Article in Russian]

Kataev MG, Filatova IA, Verigo EN, Kiriukhina SL.

Congenital anophthalmia and microphthalmia were responsible for 1.7-1.8% cases 
of all cases treated at laboratory of plastic surgery and ocular prostheses. 
Clinical picture of the condition is described. The philosophy of rehabilitation 
of patients with congenital anophthalmia and microphthalmia is as follows: 1) no 
operations during the first years of life; 2) early staged fitting with 
prostheses; 3) surgical treatment in older age, when the resources of 
conservative extension of the cavity are exhausted. The authors emphasize that 
active conservative treatment should be preferred. Method for nonsurgical 
extension of the conjunctival cavity by staged insertion of prostheses is 
described. Positive and negative aspects of surgical treatments are discussed. 
The authors emphasize that surgical activity in early age is extremely harmful. 
Results of surgical treatment of 27 patients are presented. The patients were 
divided into 2 groups differing by the tasks of surgery: repair of consequences 
of previous operations (59.2% cases) and typical correction of the eye lids 
(40.8%). Clinical examples are offered.

PMID: 11196218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Geriatrics. 2001 Jan;56(1):35-9; quiz 40.

Successful aging. How increased life expectancy and medical advances are 
changing geriatric care.

Cassel CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Henry L. Schwartz Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.

If the unprecedented increase in life expectancy has a downside, it is the 
exposure of risk to chronic age-related disorders. As clinicians work to foster 
healthy aging, we must also seek ways to prevent the disabling disorders that 
keep many older persons from enjoying their longevity. The high prevalence of 
chronic illness and functional limitation among older persons underscores the 
need for strategically directed health and social services. Successful patient 
management must extend beyond diagnosis and disease treatment and include 
promotion of function and prevention of decline. Achieving this goal requires a 
seamless continuum of management and interdisciplinary caregiving. There also 
must be a focus on improving the understanding of the science of aging. New 
treatment approaches for managing aging may one day include cognitive enhancers, 
designer hormones, telomerase, antioxidants, and gene therapy.

PMID: 11196337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2001 Jan 11;409(6817):131. doi: 10.1038/35051797.

Did agriculture reduce human lifespan?

Mehta NG.

DOI: 10.1038/35051797
PMID: 11196618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Am J Gastroenterol. 2001 Jan;96(1):179-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03374.x.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in HIV-infected patients with chronic hepatitis C.

Garc√≠a-Samaniego J(1), Rodr√≠guez M, Berenguer J, Rodr√≠guez-Rosado R, Carb√≥ J, 
Asensi V, Soriano V.

Author information:
(1)Service of Hepatology, Hospital Carlos III, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 
Madrid, Spain.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2001 Dec;96(12):3441-2.

OBJECTIVES: Chronic hepatitis C is frequently seen in HIV-positive subjects 
infected through needle sharing or transfusion of contaminated blood products. 
Progression to end-stage liver disease seems to occur faster in these patients. 
As the life expectancy of HIV-infected persons has dramatically improved since 
the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapies, cirrhosis and 
eventually hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may be recognized at an increasing 
rate in patients coinfected with HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV).
METHODS: We identified the main features of HIV-infected individuals with 
end-stage liver disease due to HCV infection and diagnosed with HCC in three 
HIV/AIDS referral centers, and compared these features to those of a control 
group of patients with HCV-related HCC but without HIV infection.
RESULTS: Seven HIV-infected patients were identified. Of these, six were <45 yr 
of age and had been intravenous drug users. The mean time between exposure to 
HCV and the development of HCC was estimated to be 17.8 yr. Two subjects were 
coinfected with hepatitis B and delta viruses, respectively. Only one individual 
had been diagnosed of an AIDS-defining condition before the diagnosis of HCC was 
made. However, all subjects had < 500 CD4+ T cells at the time of HCC diagnosis. 
Five died within the first 4 months of follow-up. Patients in the control group 
(n = 31) were significantly older (68.9 +/- 8.9 vs 42.2 +/- 10.4; p < 0.001) and 
