the duration of HCV infection was significantly longer (28.1 +/- 10.9 vs 17.8 
+/- 2.7; p < 0.05) than in those with HIV-HCV coinfection.
CONCLUSIONS: HCC seems to occur at a younger age and after a shorter period of 
HCV infection in subjects coinfected with HIV. Thus, treatment of CHC should be 
encouraged in HIV-positive patients, and in those with HCV-related cirrhosis the 
periodic monitoring of alpha-fetoprotein and abdominal ultrasonography should be 
recommended.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03374.x
PMID: 11197250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Anat. 2000 Nov;197 Pt 4(Pt 4):521-8. doi:
10.1046/j.1469-7580.2000.19740521.x.

An integrated theory of ageing in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.

Gems D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, UK. dgems@galton.ucl.ac.uk

Numerous theories of ageing have been proposed, and many have been tested 
experimentally, particularly using nematode models such as Caenorhabditis 
elegans. By combining those theories of ageing that remain plausible with recent 
findings from studies of C. elegans life span mutants, an integrated theory of 
ageing has been devised. This is formed from 3 interconnected elements: the 
evolutionary theory of ageing, the oxidative damage theory of ageing, and a 
nonadaptive programmed ageing theory. This tripartite theory of ageing gives 
rise to a number of predictions that may be tested experimentally.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.2000.19740521.x
PMCID: PMC1468166
PMID: 11197524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. MCN Am J Matern Child Nurs. 2001 Jan-Feb;26(1):39-41. doi: 
10.1097/00005721-200101000-00010.

Sexuality & cystic fibrosis.

Bolyard DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Pulmonary Center, Mercy Children's Hospital, 2222 Cherry Street, 
Suite 2900, Toledo, Ohio 43608, USA. dawnboly@aol.com

The life expectancy for a child with Cystic Fibrosis has steadily increased over 
the past few decades from an average of 8 years in 1970 to 29.5 years in 1998. 
Nurses who care for this special population need to be open to discussions about 
the quality of life of these individuals, including sexuality, body image, and 
self-esteem. Specific information concerning expected body image, fertility, and 
safe-sex practices is essential. Males will want to know about their 
reproductive choices, and females will need to have counseling about the 
decision to become pregnant, including the genetic implications for both 
themselves and the unborn child.

DOI: 10.1097/00005721-200101000-00010
PMID: 11198454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Occup Med (Lond). 2000 Sep;50(7):473-7. doi: 10.1093/occmed/50.7.473.

Designing and managing healthy work for older workers.

Griffiths A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Work, Health & Organisations, Nottingham University Business 
School, Jubilee Campus, Wollaton Road, Nottingham NG8 1BB, UK. 
amanda.griffiths@nottingham.ac.uk

Throughout many countries in the developed world, largely because of increasing 
life expectancy, the population is ageing. One of the economic implications of 
this demographic change is that workers may need to work longer and retire later 
than they have done in recent years. Much needs to be done to ensure that work 
remains a positive experience for workers throughout their career trajectories, 
and that it does not damage their health. The major contemporary challenges to 
health at work are those associated with the way work and work organizations are 
designed and managed. This is especially true for older workers. This paper 
focuses on the relationships between age and work performance, between age and 
work-related health, and between age and work-related stress. It concludes that 
there remains considerable scope for designing optimal work systems to harness 
the potential and protect the health of older workers. This important initiative 
will require a co-ordinated and multidisciplinary occupational health strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/occmed/50.7.473
PMID: 11198670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. CA Cancer J Clin. 1999 Sep-Oct;49(5):282-96. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.49.5.282.

Contemporary results of anatomic radical prostatectomy.

Catalona WJ(1), Ramos CG, Carvalhal GF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urologic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

Comment in
    CA Cancer J Clin. 1999 Sep-Oct;49(5):262-3.

With current clinical practice, most newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer 
are potentially life-threatening yet still curable. The anatomical 
(nerve-sparing) radical prostatectomy has dramatically improved the results of 
surgical treatment. Other new management options, including conformal 
(three-dimensional) external beam radiation therapy, radioactive seed 
implantation (brachytherapy), cryoablation, and hormonal therapy, may be useful 
in some patients, but they are all probably less effective than radical 
prostatectomy. Suitability for radical prostatectomy generally requires a 
clinically localized, potentially life-threatening tumor [as defined by Gleason 
grade, tumor stage, and serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level], a life 
expectancy of 10 years, and no serious co-morbid medical conditions. With 
contemporary radical prostatectomy, about 70% of men with clinically localized 
disease will be cured, depending on tumor grade, tumor stage, and the serum PSA 
level. Urinary continence and sexual potency can be preserved in most patients, 
but substantially better results have been reported from centers of excellence 
than from community-based series. Other complications occur in about 10% of 
patients and with greater frequency in older patients. The operative mortality 
rate is less than 0.5%. Neoadjuvant hormonal therapy does not appear to affect 
treatment failure rates in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. 
Prostatectomy may be beneficial in patients with microscopic lymph node 
metastases. Postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy may also be beneficial for 
patients with adverse pathologic findings. Salvage radical prostatectomy after 
radiation failure is associated with a 10-fold higher risk of complications and 
limited prospects for cure. Prospective, randomized clinical trials are underway 
to compare the results of radical prostatectomy with other treatments. 
Currently, radical prostatectomy is considered the preferred treatment for men 
with localized disease and a 10-year life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.49.5.282
PMID: 11198955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Ann Chir Gynaecol Suppl. 2000;(214):7-36.

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy in acute necrotizing infections with a special 
reference to the effects on tissue gas tensions.

Korhonen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.

Clostridial gas gangrene and perineal necrotizing fasciitis or Fournier's 
gangrene are rare but serious infections with an acute onset, rapid progression, 
systemic toxemia and a high mortality rate. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the efficacy of surgery, antibiotic treatment, surgical intensive 
care and in particular the role of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) in the management of 
these infections. An experimental rat model was used to investigate the 
possibilities for measuring tissue oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions during 
hyperbaric oxygen treatment. In addition to this preliminary experimental study, 
Silastic tube tonometer and capillary sampling techniques were tested to measure 
the effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment on subcutaneous oxygen and carbon 
dioxide tensions in patients with necrotizing fasciitis and healthy controls. 
Between January 1971 and April 1997, 53 patients with Clostridial gas gangrene 
were treated in the Department of Surgery, University of Turku. The patients 
underwent surgical debridement, broad spectrum antibiotic therapy and a series 
of hyperbaric oxygen treatments at 2.5 atmospheres absolute pressure (ATA). 
Twelve patients died (22.6%). Hyperbaric oxygen therapy in gas gangrene seems to 
be life-, limb- and tissue saving. Early diagnosis remains essential. Patient 
survival can be improved if the disease is recognized early and appropriate 
therapy instituted promptly. Between February 1971 and September 1996, 33 
patients with perineal necrotizing fasciitis were treated in the Department of 
Surgery, University of Turku. The management included surgical debridement of 
the necrotic tissue with incisions and drainage of the involved areas, 
antibiotic therapy, hyperbaric oxygen treatment at 2.5 ATA pressure and surgical 
intensive care. Three patients died giving a mortality rate of 9.1%. The 
survivors received hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 2-12 times. Our results 
indicate that hyperbaric oxygenation is an important therapeutic adjunct in the 
treatment of Fournier's gangrene. Electrical equipment should not be used 
unsheltered in a hyperbaric chamber due to the increased risk of fire. The 
subcutaneous tissue gas tensions of rats were therefore measured using a 
subcutaneously implanted Silastic tube tonometer and a capillary sampling 
technique. The method was successfully adapted to hyperbaric conditions. The 
subcutaneous oxygen tension levels increased five fold and the carbon dioxide 
tension levels two fold compared to initial levels. The PO2 and PCO2 of 
subcutaneous tissue and arterial blood were measured directly in six patients 
with necrotizing fasciitis and three healthy volunteers in normobaric conditions 
and during hyperbaric oxygen exposure at 2.5 ATA pressure. The measurements were 
carried out in healthy tissue and at the same time in the vicinity of the 
infected area of the patients. During HBO at 2.5 ATA subcutaneous oxygen 
tensions increased several fold from baseline values and carbon dioxide tensions 
also increased, but to a lesser degree in both healthy and infected tissues. 
When examining the subcutaneous PO2 levels measured from patients with 
necrotizing fasciitis, the PO2 was regularly higher in the vicinity of the 
infected area than in healthy tissue. In general, HBO treatment resulted in a 
marked increase in tissue oxygenation in both healthy tissue and in the vicinity 
of infected tissue. The hyper-oxygenated tissue zone surrounding the infected 
area may be of significance in preventing the extension of invading 
microorganisms.

PMID: 11199291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2000 Dec;35(12):1284-7. doi: 10.1080/003655200453638.

Impact of screening examinations on survival in familial adenomatous polyposis.

Heiskanen I(1), Luostarinen T, Järvinen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Second Dept of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Prophylactic family screening and surgery has improved the outcome 
of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) largely preventing deaths 
due to colorectal cancer. The present study compared the mortality rates and 
causes of death of FAP patients diagnosed by symptoms (probands) or by family 
screening (call-up).
METHODS: The study comprised all 236 FAP patients registered in the Finnish 
Polyposis Registry until the end of June 1998. There were 116 probands and 120 
call-up patients with a median age of 36.8 and 22.8 at diagnosis and median 
follow-up times of 6.3 and 9.9 years, respectively. Cumulative crude and 
relative survival estimates were calculated for each group and the causes of 
death were determined.
RESULTS: The life expectancy was significantly better in the call-up group than 
in the probands after colectomy (P < 0.001). The survival rates of the call-up 
group equaled those expected for a comparable group in the general population up 
to 18 years after colectomy. The main cause of death was colorectal cancer 
accounting for 54 out of 68 deaths: four in the call-up group (all rectal stump 
cancer) and 50 in probands. Upper GI-tract cancer caused four deaths 
(periampullary cancer two, stomach cancer two) and two deaths were due to 
postoperative pulmonary embolism.
CONCLUSION: The survival of FAP patients is significantly improved by 
prophylactic screening and surgery. Further improvement may be possible by using 
restorative proctocolectomy instead of colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis and 
by regular upper GI-tract endoscopic surveillance.

DOI: 10.1080/003655200453638
PMID: 11199368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Gen Dent. 2000 Sep-Oct;48(5):544-9.

Aging and oral health for the 21st century.

Niessen LC(1), Gibson G.

Author information:
(1)DENTSPLY International, 570 West College, York, PA 17405, USA.

Americans' oral health, along with their life expectancy, has improved 
dramatically during the 20th century. The 21st century offers dental 
professionals the opportunity to help patients maintain their oral health for a 
lifetime. This article describes trends in health and wellness among older 
adults that will affect use of dental services; reviews risk factors such as 
chronic diseases, medications, and nursing home placement that will increase 
oral diseases in older adults; and concludes with opportunities for dental 
leadership to improve the oral health of aging Americans.

PMID: 11199634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2000 Dec;33(6):438-46. doi: 10.1007/s003910070017.

[Aortic valve replacement in 80- and over 80-year-old patients. Short-term and 
long-term results].

[Article in German]

Mortasawi A(1), Gehle S, Schröder T, Ennker IC, Rosendahl U, Dalladaku F, Bauer 
S, Albert A, Ennker J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz-, Thorax- und Gefässchirurgie Herzzentrum Lahr/Baden 
Hohbergweg 2 D-77933 Lahr. a.mortasawi@heart-lahr.com

Due to demographic changes in average life expectancy, the age of patients 
undergoing cardiac surgery is increasing as well. We have reviewed the short- 
and long-term outcome in patients over 80 years of age after aortic valve 
replacement. From 01 Jan 1995 until 31 Dec 1998, 105 patients (76 women, 29 men 
between 80 and 89 years, median: 83) underwent aortic valve replacement. 42% 
presented with aortic stenosis, 58% with combined valve disease with leading 
stenosis. 53% (group A) received isolated valve replacement, 47% (group B) 
underwent myocardial revascularization as well. The in-hospital mortality rate 
was 8.9% for group A and 14.3% for group B. The follow-up time ranged between 10 
and 243 weeks (median: 112 weeks). None of the patients had to be reoperated for 
prosthetic valve dysfunction or endocarditis. Bleeding complications due to 
anticoagulant therapy were not observed. Of the 11 deaths during the follow-up 
period, 5 (45%) were cardiac in nature and 2 (18%) related to stroke. Actuarial 
survival rates for group A were 98, 95 and 88% at 1, 2 and 3 years, and for 
group B 92, 84 and 84%, respectively. Permanent nursing care was not required 1 
year after the operation by 98% of patients in group A (2 years: 95%, 3 years: 
88%) and by 100% of patients in group B (2 years: 95%, 3 years: 88%). At an 
interval of 1 year after the operation 98% of patients in group A had not been 
hospitalized as a result of cardiac disorders (2 years: 98%, 3 years: 94%). The 
rates for group B were 90, 82 and 82%. Compared with younger age groups, aortic 
valve replacement in patients 80 years of age and older is associated with a 
distinctly increased mortality and morbidity. However, our data suggest that 
considering the poor prognosis of conservative therapy of symptomatic aortic 
valve disease, the functional status as well as life expectancy in this age 
group seems to be positively influenced by aortic valve replacement.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910070017
PMID: 11201014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Scand J Rehabil Med. 2000 Dec;32(4):148-58. doi: 10.1080/003655000750060896.

Current status of rehabilitation, especially in patients with stroke, in Japan.

Liu M(1), Chino N, Takahashi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The current status of stroke rehabilitation in Japan was reviewed from the 
perspectives of epidemiology, structures, outcomes and research. Japan is the 
fastest aging society in the world, facing a rapid increase in its disabled 
population and ensuing healthcare costs. Although its mortality is decreasing, 
stroke is the most frequent cause of disability. Traditionally, stroke patients 
acutely admitted to general hospitals remained bed-ridden for months, hindering 
maximal functional gain. With more attention to the importance of 
rehabilitation, improved outcomes such as shorter length of stay, more 
functional gain and increased community discharge have resulted. Japan's 
healthcare system, characterized by universal coverage, equity and a mandatory 
fee schedule, has contributed to the world's longest life expectancy and the 
lowest infant mortality rate, but it has also lacked quality assurance. Under 
stringent economic conditions, drastic healthcare and welfare reform plans are 
being debated and pressure is mounting for more efficient stroke rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1080/003655000750060896
PMID: 11201621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2000;142(11):1219-30. doi: 10.1007/s007010070018.

Noncontiguous spinal metastases and plasmocytomas should be operated on through 
a single posterior midline approach, and circumferential decompression should be 
performed with individualized reconstruction.

Mühlbauer M(1), Pfisterer W, Eyb R, Knosp E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Donauspital SMZ-Ost, Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2001;143(6):633-5.

BACKGROUND: In noncontiguous spinal metastatic disease, anterior or combined 
anterior-posterior surgery is an effective treatment. The objective of this 
study is to investigate whether circumferential decompression through a 
single-stage posterior midline approach with individualized spinal 
reconstruction can still achieve comparable results for functional improvement 
and for maintenance of spinal alignment in the absence of the risks associated 
with the more invasive transcavitary or combined approaches.
METHOD: Seventeen patients with noncontiguous spinal metastases and 
plasmocytomas at one or two adjacent levels were included in this series. 
Circumferential decompression was obtained with anterior reconstruction and 
posterior fixation in ten patients, and with posterior instrumentation alone in 
seven patients. Postoperatively the patients were prospectively followed, and 
their functional status and spinal alignment were periodically evaluated.
FINDINGS: Fourteen patients died from progression of their underlying cancer. 
Their mean survival time was 8 months (range: 1 to 21 months). Three survivors 
were evaluated at 10, 4 and 3 months respectively. At one month after surgery, 
14 patients (82%) showed neurological improvement. Of 10 preoperative 
nonambulators, seven regained walking capacity. Five patients who were 
ambulatory with assistance improved to full functional independence. Local 
tumour recurrence was recorded in one patient after subtotal vertebrectomy for a 
plasmocytoma at L5. No other tumour recurrences were noted. In one patient a 
partial loss of correction occurred at T6 - without functional deterioration, 
however. Spinal alignment was maintained in all other patients who became or 
remained ambulatory. No major intra-operative complications or peri-operative 
deaths occurred. CSF leakage was recorded as the most common complication in 
four patients.
INTERPRETATION: Circumferential decompression and spinal reconstruction through 
a single-stage posterior midline approach is feasible and effective. The extent 
of surgery can be individualized by means of this technique to the patient's 
specific problem. In patients with limited life expectancy from metastatic 
neoplastic disease, the results compare favourably with the more invasive 
anterior or combined antero-posterior procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s007010070018
PMID: 11201636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 2001 Jan 18;409(6818):338-40. doi: 10.1038/35053066.

Three-butterfly system provides a field test of müllerian mimicry.

Kapan DD(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biodiversity Research, Department of Zoology, University of 
British Colombia, Vancouver, Canada. dkapan@rrpac.upr.clu.edu

In 1879, Müller proposed that two brightly coloured distasteful butterfly 
species (co-models) that share a single warning-colour pattern would benefit by 
spreading the selective burden of educating predators. The mutual benefit of 
sharing warning signals among distasteful species, so-called müllerian mimicry, 
is supported by comparative evidence, theoretical studies and laboratory 
simulations; however, to date, this key exemplar of adaptive evolution has not 
been experimentally tested in the field. To measure natural selection generated 
by müllerian mimicry, I exploited the unusual polymorphism of Heliconius cydno 
(Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Here I show increased survival of H. cydno morphs 
that match locally abundant monomorphic co-model species. This study 
demonstrates müllerian mimicry in the field. It also shows that müllerian 
mimicry with several co-models generates geographically divergent selection, 
which explains the existence of polymorphism in distasteful species with warning 
coloration.

DOI: 10.1038/35053066
PMID: 11201741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Vopr Onkol. 2000;46(5):538-48.

[Mortality from malignant neoplasms in the vital statistics of 
Saint-Petersburg].

[Article in Russian]

Shabashova NIa, Diatchenko OT, Merabishvili VM, Popova SP.

PMID: 11202184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2000 Aug;20(4):366-73.

A retrospective study of dental implants in diabetic patients.

Fiorellini JP(1), Chen PK, Nevins M, Nevins ML.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Dental Medicine, Department of Periodontology, 188 Longwood 
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. joseph_fiorellini@hms.harvard.edu

The efficacious placement of dental implants in diabetic patients remains 
controversial. Definitive guidelines with objective criteria, including the type 
of diabetes, age of onset, and level of long-term control, have not been 
determined. In addition, few relevant literature citations assess the survival 
rate of implants in diabetic patients. Therefore, it is the purpose of this 
study to assess the success and survival rates of dental implants in diabetic 
patients. In this retrospective analysis, 215 implants placed in 40 patients at 
2 clinical centers were evaluated. Chart reviews and interviews provided medical 
and implant data. From the analysis, 31 failures occurred, for an overall 
success rate of 85.6%. Of these failures, 24 occurred within the first year of 
functional loading. The mean time of functional load was 4.05 +/- 2.6 years. 
When the success rate was analyzed by implant location, success rates for the 
maxilla and mandible were 85.5% and 85.7%, respectively. For the anterior and 
posterior regions, success rates were 83.5% and 85.6%, respectively. The 
lifetable analysis revealed a cumulative success rate of 85.7% after 6.5 years 
of function. Based on the data, the survival rate of dental implants in 
controlled diabetic patients is lower than that documented for the general 
population, but there is still a reasonable success rate. The increase in 
failure rate occurs during the first year following prosthetic loading.

PMID: 11203576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2000 Dec;20(6):628-36.

Resin-bonded fixed partial dentures and splints in periodontally compromised 
patients: a 10-year follow-up.

Corrente G(1), Vergnano L, Re S, Cardaropoli D, Abundo R.

Author information:
(1)University of Turin, Dental Clinic, S Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, Orbassano, 
Turin, Italy.

In the present study, 139 periodontally compromised patients received a complete 
periodontal treatment; in 104 cases this was followed by orthodontic treatment. 
At the end of the entire therapy, a total of 150 Maryland restorations (69 
resin-bonded fixed partial dentures and 81 resin-bonded splints) was placed and 
then followed for a period of up to 10 years (mean 6.7 y). Thirteen fixed 
partial dentures and 16 splints failed during the observation period; the 
10-year cumulative survival rate from lifetable analysis was 76.2% (70.6% for 
fixed partial dentures and 80.7% for splints).

PMID: 11203600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Int J Prosthodont. 2000 Jul-Aug;13(4):282-8.

A comparison of laser-welded titanium and conventional cast frameworks supported 
by implants in the partially edentulous jaw: a 3-year prospective multicenter 
study.

Jemt T(1), Henry P, Lindén B, Naert I, Weber H, Bergström C.

Author information:
(1)Prosthetic Division, Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health, Göteborg, 
Sweden. torsten.jemt@odontologi.gu.se

PURPOSE: The purpose of this prospective multicenter study was to evaluate and 
compare the clinical performance of laser-welded titanium fixed partial 
implant-supported prostheses with conventional cast frameworks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two partially edentulous patients were provided 
with Brånemark system implants and arranged into 2 groups. Group A was provided 
with a conventional cast framework with porcelain veneers in one side of the jaw 
and a laser-welded titanium framework with low-fusing porcelain on the other 
side. The patients in group B had an old implant prosthesis replaced by a 
titanium framework prosthesis. The patients were followed for 3 years after 
prosthesis placement. Clinical and radiographic data were collected and 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Only one implant was lost, and all prostheses were still in function 
after 3 years. The 2 framework designs showed similar clinical performance with 
few clinical complications. Only one abutment screw (1%) and 9 porcelain tooth 
units (5%) fractured. Four prostheses experienced loose gold screws (6%). In 
group A, marginal bone loss was similar for both designs of prostheses, with a 
mean of 1.0 mm and 0.3 mm in the maxilla and mandible, respectively. No bone 
loss was observed on average in group B. No significant relationship (P > 0.05) 
was observed between marginal bone loss and placement of prosthesis margin or 
prosthesis design.
CONCLUSION: The use of laser-welded titanium frameworks seems to present similar 
clinical performance to conventional cast frameworks in partial implant 
situations after 3 years.

PMID: 11203643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Int J Prosthodont. 2000 Sep-Oct;13(5):373-7.

A preliminary study on a resin-modified glass-ionomer cement for transitional 
restorations and subsequent core buildups.

Plasmans PJ(1), Kreulen CM, Creugers NH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occlusal Reconstruction and Oral Function, College of Dental 
Science, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
p.plasmans@dent.kun.nl

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the serviceability of a 
resin-modified glass-ionomer cement for transitional restorations and subsequent 
core buildups in endodontically treated maxillary premolars.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty Vitremer restorations were made in 42 patients by 
one operator during a period of 5 months. After 1 year of follow up, the quality 
of the restorations was assessed for the variables occlusal contacts, proximal 
contacts, marginal adaptation, and surface roughness. Survival was estimated at 
2 years of service either as a transitional restoration or as a core buildup.
RESULTS: The percentage survival of the transitional restorations was 85% +/- 
6%. When the crowned Vitremer restorations were added to the transitional 
restorations, the 2-year survival was 98% +/- 2%. With respect to the quality 
assessment, the majority of the restorations showed either no or light occlusal 
contacts and no or light contacts on at least one of their proximal surfaces. 
Marginal integrity and surface roughness were considered to be suboptimal on 
average.
CONCLUSION: The described restorations seem to perform adequately for a 
transitional period of 1 to 2 years. Their viability as substructures for 
permanent cast restorations remains to be tested in long-term clinical studies.

PMID: 11203656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Oper Dent. 2000 Sep-Oct;25(5):374-81.

Review of bonded amalgam restorations, and assessment in a general practice over 
five years.

Smales RJ(1), Wetherell JD.

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, 19a Wattle St, Fullarton, Adelaide, South Australia 
5063.

This study reviewed the literature on bonded amalgam restorations and assessed 
the failure, marginal fracture and marginal staining behavior of 366 Permite C 
amalgam restorations lined with five dentin bonding resins (Scotchbond 2, 
Panavia Ex, Amalgambond, Amalgambond Plus, Geristore) and a polyamide cavity 
varnish (Barrier). The restorations were placed in the posterior permanent teeth 
of 190 adult patients and examined at intervals over periods of up to five 
years. There were five restoration failures (1.4%), usually from tooth fracture, 
involving Class II preparations in molar teeth. No instances of persistent 
pulpal sensitivity or recurrent caries were reported. The marginal deterioration 
of the restorations was assessed indirectly using photographs for comparison 
with two standard sets of enlarged color transparencies. Most of the marginal 
fracture and marginal staining scores were low, with little difference between 
the six lining materials at any period.

PMID: 11203845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Spec Care Dentist. 2000 Mar-Apr;20(2):66-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1754-4505.2000.tb01146.x.

Effect of an oral health training program on knowledge and behavior of state 
agency long-term-care surveyors.

Kaiser CM(1), Williams KB, Mayberry W, Braun J, Pozek KD.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Western Wisconsin Technical College, 304 6th Street North, La 
Crosse, WI 54601, USA.

This study examines the effect of a training program on long-term-care (LTC) 
surveyors' knowledge of factors affecting oral health and their behavior in 
citing oral health deficiencies of LTC residents. Twenty surveyors were 
recruited for the experimental group, along with a non-equivalent comparison 
group of 31 surveyors. The experimental group participated in a three-hour 
interactive, case-based training program. The experimental group had a 
significant increase in total knowledge (p < 0.002) post-test scores with a 
moderate effect size, eta 2 = 0.115. The training program resulted in a 
statistically significant increase (p < 0.0001) in oral health citation behavior 
for the experimental group for six months following training. This study 
provides evidence that an interactive case-based training program can affect 
participants' knowledge regarding oral health of LTC residents and participants' 
oral health citation behavior. As the elderly population experiences an 
increased life expectancy with increased need for assistance with Activities of 
Daily Living (ADL), similar training programs will become an important factor in 
assessing the quality of care provided to LTC residents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1754-4505.2000.tb01146.x
PMID: 11203881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Haematologia (Budap). 2000;30(4):253-62. doi: 10.1163/156855900300109503.

Complications of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Lambertenghi Deliliers G(1), Annaloro C, Lambertenghi Deliliers D.

Author information:
(1)Centro Trapianti di Midollo, Ospedale Maggiore IRCCS and University of 
Milano, Italy. giorgio.lambertenghi@unimi.it

Myeloablative therapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) 
transplantation is a therapeutic option proposed for a variety of hematological 
and non-hematological diseases. However, although mortality due to this 
procedure is steadily decreasing, patients are still exposed to the risk of a 
number of complications negatively affecting their expectancy or quality of 
life. Adverse events due to HSC harvesting are rare and generally reversible. 
The early post-transplant complications include infections, mucositis, hepatic 
veno-occlusive disease and various acute organ toxicities. Immune derangement is 
a leading cause of most late events, such as viral or fungal infections, 
auto-immune manifestations and secondary neoplasms, of which secondary AML/MDS 
are the most commonly reported. In line with the favoured pathogenetic 
explanation, neoplastic clones previously established during conventional 
treatment are harvested and reinfused at the time of autografting. Other late 
effects are single organ dysfunction due to the underlying disease and treatment 
toxicities combined with infectious and post-infectious phenomena. The lungs, 
heart, CNS and reproductive system are the most investigated targets, but no 
clinical patterns have been identified as specific for autografting.

DOI: 10.1163/156855900300109503
PMID: 11204025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Haematologia (Budap). 2000;30(4):263-9. doi: 10.1163/156855900300109512.

Hodgkin's disease in the elderly: a single institution retrospective study of 40 
patients aged 65 or over.

Illés A(1), Vadász G, Gergely L, Szegedi G.

Author information:
(1)3rd Department of Medicine, University Medical School of Debrecen, Hungary. 
illes@iiibel.dote.hu

Out of 485 patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) treated in our institution 
between 1970-1998, 40 (8.2%) patients aged 65 or over at the date of the first 
presentation were examined retrospectively. The localization of the disease was 
more frequently infradiaphragmatic and rarely mediastinal in the elderly. The 
time that elapsed from the first clinical sign to the diagnosis of HD was twice 
as long as that in the young patient population. Since the first treatment was 
often inadequate and due to severe associated diseases, therapeutic and overall 
survival results in this patient population were less favourable than in the 
case of young patients. However, the relapse-free survival rate of the elderly 
patients treated successfully did not differ from that of the young patient 
population. Complete healing should be the final aim of treatment in the aged 
population, while the status of the patient, associated diseases and life 
expectancy not related with HD should also be taken into consideration. Besides 
the search for effective and less toxic treatment strategies and supportive 
therapy, more frequent and overall patient follow-up and care is of great 
importance.

DOI: 10.1163/156855900300109512
PMID: 11204026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. ASDC J Dent Child. 2000 Nov-Dec;67(6):428-30, 407.

Impaired dentofacial development after radiotherapy of a non-Hodgkin lymphoma: 
report of case.

Folwaczny M(1), Hickel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry and Periodontology, Ludwig-Maximilians 
University, Munich, Germany.

Since the advances in therapy of childhood malignancies have improved life 
expectancy attention is now increasingly focused on the long-term effects of 
antineoplastic therapy. Developmental abnormalities due to antineoplastic 
therapy have been claimed to preferentially occur in children treated before the 
age of six years. This report of a case demonstrates severe developmental 
disturbances following radiotherapy of a cervical non-Hodgkin lymphoma at the 
age of eight years. The morphological changes included microdontia, root 
shortening, blunting and thinning as well as mandibular hypoplasia.

PMID: 11204069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2000 Dec 22;112(24):1059-61.

Can it be worse? On the sub-Saharan HIV/AIDS epidemic at the beginning of the 
new millennium.

Balint GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Psychiatry, New Clinics, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Szeged, Hungary. 
BALINT@nepsy.szote.u-szeged.hu

According to the data in the relevant literature, it seems that at the 
millennium the worldwide HIV/AIDS epidemic shows no decline. In the most heavily 
affected area of tropical (sub-Saharan) Africa the situation is getting worse. 
There is a number of factors which are responsible for this situation. 
Considering the lack of necessary funds, it is evident that the most important 
task is a vigorous health education.

PMID: 11204318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Neural Transm Suppl. 2000;(60):139-56. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6301-6_9.

Common properties for propargylamines of enhancing superoxide dismutase and 
catalase activities in the dopaminergic system in the rat: implications for the 
life prolonging effect of (-)deprenyl.

Kitani K(1), Minami C, Maruyama W, Kanai S, Ivy GO, Carrillo MC.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Longevity Sciences, Obu, Aichi, Japan. 
kitani@nils.go.jp

(-)Deprenyl has been reported to prolong the life span of different animal 
species. Further, the drug effectively increases antioxidant enzyme activities 
such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in brain dopaminergic 
regions. We have found that the effect of the drug on antioxidant enzyme 
activities is highly dose dependent, increasing with an increasing dose, 
however, a higher dose becomes less effective and an excessive dose becomes 
adversely effective. Most importantly, an optimal dose for the effect varies 
widely depending on animal species, strain, sex, age and duration of the 
treatment, which may at least partly explain discrepancies reported among 
different studies in the past. From the parallelism of the dose-effect 
relationship of the drug between life span extension and increasing endogenous 
antioxidant enzyme activity, we have suggested that the above two effects of 
(-)deprenyl may be causally related. This review summarizes our past series of 
studies and also reports our very recent observation that other propargylamines 
such as rasagiline and (R)-N-(2-heptyl)-N-methylpropagylamine (R-2HMP) also 
share the property of enhancing antioxidant enzyme activities. Further, our most 
recent study has found that these propargylamines increase antioxidant enzyme 
activities not only in brain dopaminergic regions but in extra-brain 
dopaminergic tissues such as the heart and kidneys. These observations are 
discussed in relation to the life prolonging effect of (-)deprenyl reported in 
the past.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6301-6_9
PMID: 11205136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Rev Neurol. 2000 Dec 16-31;31(12):1247-9.

[Surgical treatment of brain metastases].

[Article in Spanish]

Bartumeus F(1), Clavel P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, 
España.

INTRODUCTION: Up to 40% of the patients with cancer have cerebral metastases, so 
that their incidence in the general population reaches 0.15%. Different 
treatments for metastases have been described. Most aim to eradicate one or 
several metastases so as to improve the quality of life and life expectancy of 
the patients.
DEVELOPMENT: The main factors determining the prognosis and indication for 
surgery are age, functional state and extent of the neoplastic disease. The 
presence of more than one metastasis does not contraindicate surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: The development of new surgical techniques over the past twenty 
years has led to a reduction in operative morbidity and mortality. Surgery 
followed by holocranial radiotherapy is still the method of choice for the 
treatment of metastases. In cases in which surgical treatment is not indicated, 
radiosurgery may be done.

PMID: 11205568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Rev Neurol. 2000 Dec 16-31;31(12):1267-75.

[Oncologic treatment of oto-neuro-ophthalmological metastases and their 
complications].

[Article in Spanish]

Borràs J(1), Gumà J, Lainez N, Villar JL, Sabater S.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología, Hospital Universitari de Sant Joan, Reus, Tarragona, 
España.

INTRODUCTION: Cerebral metastases and the sequelae of their treatment are the 
major cause of neurological symptoms in patients with cancer.
OBJECTIVE: In this article we review the oto-neuro-ophthalmological 
complications of the treatment of metastases with radiotherapy and/or 
chemotherapy.
DEVELOPMENT: When speaking of the iatrogenic diseases caused by radiotherapy 
treatment of metastases, it is important to emphasize that the major 
complications of this form of treatment are seen in the long term, in general, 
months or years later. When dealing with incurable diseases, such as most 
metastatic cancers, the benefit/risk balance of each therapeutic option has to 
be taken into account. Thus we have a population of patients with symptoms 
secondary to metastatic involvement, and with an overall life expectancy which 
may be measured in months. The oto-neuro-ophthalmological toxicity of the 
chemotherapy may present as an infrequent and unexpected complication or as a 
usual, expected secondary effect of the drug used. A large variety of drugs are 
used for the systemic control of cancer (cystostatic drugs, hormones and 
modifiers of the biological response) which, in one way or another, may cause 
neurological signs.
CONCLUSION: The increasingly frequent use of high dose chemotherapy and of the 
combined use of chemotherapy and radiotherapy mean that these types of toxicity 
have become common clinical syndromes in current oncological practices.

PMID: 11205576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2001 Feb;32(2):99-105. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-200102000-00003.

Surveillance issues in inflammatory bowel disease: ulcerative colitis.

Provenzale D(1), Onken J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham VA 
Medical Center, North Carolina 27710, USA.

This review article on the surveillance of patients with ulcerative colitis 
provides an overview of the criteria for evaluating screening and surveillance 
programs and applies the criteria to the available evidence to determine the 
effectiveness of the surveillance of patients with ulcerative colitis. We 
examine the clinical outcomes associated with surveillance, the additional 
clinical time required to confirm the diagnosis of dysplasia and cancer, 
compliance with surveillance and follow-up, and the effectiveness of the 
individual components of a surveillance program, including colonoscopy and 
pathologist's interpretation. The disability associated with colectomy is 
considered, as are the cost and acceptability of surveillance programs. Patients 
with long-standing ulcerative colitis are at risk for developing colorectal 
cancer. Recommended surveillance colonoscopy should be supported. New endoscopic 
and histopathologic techniques to improve the identification of high-risk 
patients may enhance the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of surveillance 
practices.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-200102000-00003
PMID: 11205664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Clin Cornerstone. 2000;3(2):45-56. doi: 10.1016/s1098-3597(00)90031-0.

Surgical options for the treatment of heart failure.

Spinale FG(1), Lucas DG Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Gazes Cardiac Research Institute, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.

This article will examine the role of specific surgical interventions for 
congestive heart failure (CHF). The most definitive surgical option for severe 
end-stage heart failure is cardiac transplantation. In general, patients 
considered for heart transplant should have severe heart disease despite all 
other therapies with a high risk of death within 1 year. Noncardiac conditions 
that would by themselves shorten life expectancy or increase the risks of 
rejection, infection, or other fatal complication, should not be present. 
However, in light of the limited donor pool, complications associated with 
long-term immunosuppressive therapy, and the ever-increasing number of CHF 
patients, the role of cardiac transplantation for CHF will continue to be 
limited. The conduct of and evaluation for cardiac transplantation has been well 
described previously and therefore will not be evaluated in this review (1); 
however, there has been recent progress in the genetic modification of animal 
organs for potential use in transplantation (xenografts) (2). If these 
developments come to fruition, then cardiac transplantation/organ replacement 
may become a surgical option for a much greater number of CHF patients. One 
alternative approach to complete cardiac transplantation is the surgical 
placement of transformed cells into the diseased myocardium, briefly discussed 
under "Future Directions." This article will examine surgical options that are 
currently being used for CHF patients, surgical modalities that are currently 
under clinical evaluation, and finally, potential future therapies with respect 
to surgical options for heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s1098-3597(00)90031-0
PMID: 11205724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Epidemiol Bull. 2000 Dec;21(4):1-3.

Health situation analysis in the Americas, 1999-2000.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11206021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Immunol. 2001 Mar 1;166(5):3256-65. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.166.5.3256.

Functional association of CD9 with the Fc gamma receptors in macrophages.

Kaji K(1), Takeshita S, Miyake K, Takai T, Kudo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Japan.

CD9, a member of the tetraspan family of proteins, is highly expressed on 
macrophages. Although a clear function for the molecule has yet to be described, 
we have found that the anti-CD9 mAb activates mouse macrophages. The rat 
anti-CD9 mAb, KMC8.8, but not the F(ab')(2), induced tyrosine phosphorylation of 
proteins including syk and cbl and induced cell aggregation in the mouse 
macrophage cell line, J774, suggesting that co-cross-linking of CD9 and Fc gamma 
R was required for the signal. Co-cross-linking of CD9-Fc gamma R with KMC8.8 on 
macrophages from three different FcR-deficient mice, FcR gamma-chain(-/-), Fc 
gamma RIIB(-/-), and Fc gamma RIII(-/-), revealed that Fc gamma RIII is specific 
and crucial for syk phosphorylation. Although both KMC8.8 and the anti-Fc gamma 
RIIB/III mAb, 2.4G2, evoked similar phosphorylation patterns, only KMC8.8 
induced cell aggregation. Additionally, KMC8.8 treatment led to reduce levels of 
TNF-alpha production and p42/44 extracellular signal-related kinase 
phosphorylation relative to 2.4G2 stimulation. Immunofluorescence staining 
showed that co-cross-linking of CD9-Fc gamma R with KMC8.8 induced filopodium 
extension before cell aggregation, which was followed by simultaneous 
colocalization of CD9, Fc gamma RIIB/III, Mac-1, ICAM-1, and F-actin at the 
cell-cell adhesion site. Moreover, KMC8.8 treatment of Fc gamma R-deficient 
macrophages revealed that the colocalization of CD9, Fc gamma RIII, Mac-1, and 
F-actin requires co-cross-linking of CD9-Fc gamma RIII, whereas co-cross-linking 
of CD9-Fc gamma RIIB induced the colocalization of only CD9 and Fc gamma RIIB. 
Our results demonstrate that co-cross-linking of CD9 and Fc gamma Rs activates 
macrophages; therefore, CD9 may collaborate with FcRs functioning in infection 
and inflammation on macrophages.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.166.5.3256
PMID: 11207280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2001 Feb;54(2):137-54. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.2001.01218.x.

Growth hormone and the heart.

Colao A(1), Marzullo P, Di Somma C, Lombardi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy. colao@unina.it

Impaired cardiovascular function has recently been demonstrated to potentially 
reduce life expectancy both in GH deficiency and excess. Experimental and 
clinical studies have supported the evidence that GH and IGF-I are implicated in 
cardiac development. In most patients with acromegaly a specific cardiomyopathy, 
characterized by myocardial hypertrophy with interstitial fibrosis, 
lympho-mononuclear infiltration and areas of monocyte necrosis, results in 
biventricular concentric hypertrophy. In contrast, patients with childhood or 
adulthood-onset GH deficiency (GHD) may suffer both from structural cardiac 
abnormalities, such as narrowing of cardiac walls, and functional impairment, 
that combine to reduce diastolic filling and impair left ventricular response to 
peak exercise. In addition, GHD patients may have an increase in vascular 
intima-media thickness and a higher occurrence of atheromatous plaques, that can 
further aggravate the haemodynamic conditions and contribute to increased 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk. However, several lines of evidence have 
suggested that the cardiovascular abnormalities can be partially reversed by 
suppressing GH and IGF-I levels in acromegaly or after GH replacement therapy in 
GHD patients. Recently, much attention has been focussed on the ability of GH to 
increase cardiac mass suggesting its possible use in the treatment of chronic 
nonendocrine heart failure. In fact, GH administration can induce an improvement 
in haemodynamic and clinical status in some patients. Although these data need 
to be confirmed in more extensive studies, such promising results seem to open 
new perspectives for GH treatment in humans.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.2001.01218.x
PMID: 11207626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Cardiol Rev. 1999 Nov-Dec;7(6):332-41. doi:
10.1097/00045415-199911000-00011.

Therapeutic management of patients with Marfan syndrome: focus on cardiovascular 
involvement.

Nienaber CA(1), Von Kodolitsch Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, 
20246 Hamburg, Germany. nienaber@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder of the connective tissues, 
with mutation on the fibrillin-1 gene encoding for fibrillin, a major component 
of the extracellular microfibrils. The prevalence of the syndrome is 7 to 17 in 
100,000. The mean life expectancy for untreated patients with Marfan syndrome is 
32 years, with aortic dissection, aortic rupture, or cardiac failure from mitral 
or aortic valve regurgitation as the predominant cause of death in >90% of 
patients. However, with optimal clinical management of patients with Marfan 
syndrome, life expectancy may be improved substantially to a nearly normal life 
span. Cornerstones of clinical management include modern noninvasive imaging 
modalities, molecular analysis at the complementary deoxyribonucleic 
acid/deoxyribonucleic acid level of the fibrillin-1 gene, genetic counseling, 
lifestyle changes, and cardiovascular surveillance, the latter including regular 
imaging of the aorta and endocarditis prophylaxis. Prophylactic use of 
beta-blocking agents, the timing of elective surgery, and the optimal surgical 
technique are difficult issues that need to be evaluated individually. Juvenile, 
