postoperative, and pregnant patients with Marfan syndrome pose particular 
problems. The goal of this review is to facilitate differential decision-making 
based on referenced evidence and to provide guidelines for medical and surgical 
therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/00045415-199911000-00011
PMID: 11208245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2001 Jan 17;93(2):96-111. doi: 10.1093/jnci/93.2.96.

Arm edema in breast cancer patients.

Erickson VS(1), Pearson ML, Ganz PA, Adams J, Kahn KL.

Author information:
(1)V. S. Erickson, RAND Health, Santa Monica, CA, USA.

The improvement in the life expectancy of women with breast cancer raises 
important questions about how to improve the quality of life for women 
sustaining complications of breast cancer treatment. In particular, attention to 
common problems, such as arm edema, is of critical importance. We reviewed 
published breast cancer guidelines and literature identified via MEDLINE(R) 
searches in an effort to summarize the research literature pertinent to 
management of breast cancer-related arm edema, including incidence, prevalence, 
and timing; risk factors; morbidity; prevention; diagnosis; and efficacy of 
nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic interventions. We found that arm edema is a 
common complication of breast cancer therapy that can result in substantial 
functional impairment and psychological morbidity. The risk of arm edema 
increases when axillary dissection and axillary radiation therapy are used. 
Recommendations for preventive measures, such as avoidance of trauma, are 
available, but these measures have not been well studied. Nonpharmacologic 
treatments, such as massage and exercise, have been shown to be effective 
therapies for lymphedema, but the effect of pharmacologic interventions remains 
uncertain. Comparing results across studies is complicated by the fact that the 
definitions of interventions and measures of outcomes and risk stratification 
vary substantially among studies. As arm edema becomes more prevalent with the 
increasing survival of breast cancer patients, further research is needed to 
evaluate the efficacy of preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/93.2.96
PMID: 11208879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Natl Med J India. 2000 Nov-Dec;13(6):326.

Worldwide decline in birth rate--how is Africa affected?

Walker AR, Adam F.

PMID: 11209491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2000;117(1):113-28; discussion 129-31.

[The health of the members of the Academy].

[Article in Spanish]

Dom√≠nguez Carmona M.

The present paper, analyses the health of the numerary members of the Academy 
since 1791 until 1998 as evaluated through mortality and supervivence registers 
from birth or until their entrance as members. A positive trend of 3.67 years in 
life expectancy appears as compared to male spaniards of their time. Finally, 
biasses of this work are discussed as well as possible factors that could have 
played a role in this life expectancy mirease.

PMID: 11209553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2000;27(12):1049-56.

[Affect of heredity, disease and environment on the life-span of personage in 
History Book of Song Dynasty].

[Article in Chinese]

Lin Q(1), Wang MQ.

Author information:
(1)Branch of Genetic and Breeding, Second Institute of Agricultural Science of 
Chengdu, 611130 China.

The data have been sorted and calculated by statistics for personages' life-span 
according to surname and Yin-Yang type and disease according to the cause of 
pattern over 793 personage from the biography of emperor families' and official 
in feudal times and subjects of the feudal ruler in History Book of Song 
Dynasty. (1) For there are some genetic diseases causing their earlier death in 
surname Zhao's, the average value of life-span is shorter than the other surname 
of Wang, Li, Zhang, Liu and Chen's. Because the average value among those five 
surnames are not different each other, the character of the distribution of 
every one's tally with neuter alleles. (2) The average value in a population on 
a type of mild Yin and Yang is higher than the type of Yang only, P < 0.05. (3) 
Disease and bad environment are the limiting factors for life. Besides, to rise 
the resistance ability is an important path way for increasing our life-span. 
The attribute of a genetic system in Yin or Yang is an objective existence. 
Influence on life by genetics may vary with various disease and environment, but 
different disease is controlled genetically. A bad environment may affect life, 
but neuter environment would be affected the life through attribute of a genetic 
system in Yin or Yang type indirectly.

PMID: 11209697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Epidemiol. 2000 Nov;10(6):403-9. doi: 10.2188/jea.10.403.

Does hyperuricemia affect mortality? A prospective cohort study of Japanese male 
workers.

Tomita M(1), Mizuno S, Yamanaka H, Hosoda Y, Sakuma K, Matuoka Y, Odaka M, 
Yamaguchi M, Yosida H, Morisawa H, Murayama T.

Author information:
(1)Central Health Institute of East Japan Railway Company, Tokyo, Japan.

A positive association between hyperuricemia and cardiovascular disease has been 
reported, but no study has evidenced yet the precise role of serum uric acid in 
the development of cardiovascular disease. In addition, no epidemiological 
studies have so far documented a decreased risk of cancer among people with 
hyperuricemia, even though the antioxidant action of uric acid has recently been 
stressed to inhibit DNA damage. The present prospective cohort study 
investigates the relationship between hyperuricemia and health hazards in a 
Japanese working population. The subjects were 49,413 Japanese male railroad 
workers, aged 25-60 years at enrollment. Serum uric acid and other baseline data 
were provided by annual health-survey records from 1975 to 1982. The vital 
status of the subjects was traced until the end of 1985 for those who remained 
alive. During an average 5.4-year study period, 984 deaths were recorded. Those 
with serum uric acid over 8.5 mg/dl showed elevated relative risks (RRs) of 
death in all causes (RR 1.62, p<0.01), coronary heart disease ( RR 1.52), stroke 
(RR 2.33, p<0.01), hepatic disease (RR 3.58, p<0.01), and renal failure ( RR 
8.52, p<0.01), as compared with those with serum uric acid levels of 
5.0-6.4mg/dl. The RR of death in all causes still remains statistically 
significant when adjusted by age and serum total cholesterol (2.00, p<0.01), age 
and alcohol intake (1.85, p<0.001), age and smoking (1.69, p<0.001), age and 
gout treatment (1.61, p<0.05), and also age and BMI (1.50, p< 0.05). On the 
other hand, the RR of all causes decreased but was still above 1.0 when adjusted 
by age and blood glucose (1.62), age and systolic blood pressure (1.32), age and 
GOT (1.23), and also age and history of cardiovascular disease (1.17). These 
results showed that hyperuricemia has a strong association with the RRs of death 
in all causes, coronary heart disease, stroke, hepatic disease and renal 
failure, and indicated that serum uric acid seems to be a considerable risk 
factor for reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.10.403
PMID: 11210110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Transplantation. 2001 Jan 15;71(1):82-90. doi:
10.1097/00007890-200101150-00014.

The impact of simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation on long-term patient 
survival.

Ojo AO(1), Meier-Kriesche HU, Hanson JA, Leichtman A, Magee JC, Cibrik D, Wolfe 
RA, Port FK, Agodoa L, Kaufman DB, Kaplan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-0364, USA.

BACKGROUND: Simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPK) ameliorates the 
progression of microvascular diabetic complications but the procedure is 
associated with excess initial morbidity and an uncertain effect on patient 
survival when compared with solitary cadaveric or living donor renal 
transplantation. We evaluated mortality risks associated with SPK, solitary 
renal transplantation, and dialysis treatment in a national cohort of type 1 
diabetics with end-stage nephropathy.
METHODS: A total of 13,467 adult-type 1 diabetics enrolled on the renal and 
renal-pancreas transplant waiting list between 10/01/88 and 06/30/97 were 
followed until 06/30/98. Time-dependent mortality risks and life expectancy were 
calculated according to the treatment received subsequent to wait-list 
registration: SPK; cadaveric kidney only (CAD); living donor kidney only (LKD) 
transplantation; and dialysis [wait-listed, maintenance dialysis treatment 
(WLD)].
RESULTS: Adjusted 10-year patient survival was 67% for SPK vs. 65% for LKD 
recipients (P=0.19) and 46% for CAD recipients (P<0.001). The excess initial 
mortality normally associated with renal transplantation and the risk of early 
infectious death was 2-fold higher in SPK recipients. The time to achieve equal 
proportion of survivors as the WLD patients was 170, 95, and 72 days for SPK, 
CAD, and LKD recipients, respectively (P<0.001). However, the adjusted 5-year 
morality risk (RR) using WLD as the reference and the expected remaining life 
years were 0.40, 0.45, and 0.75 and 23.4, 20.9, and 12.6 years for SPK, LKD, and 
CAD, respectively. There was no survival benefit in SPK recipients > or =50 
years old (RR=1.38, P=0.81).
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with type 1 DM with end-stage nephropathy, SPK 
transplantation before the age of 50 years was associated with long-term 
improvement in survival compared to solitary cadaveric renal transplantation or 
dialysis.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-200101150-00014
PMID: 11211201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Laryngol Otol Suppl. 2000;(27):32-6. doi: 10.1258/0022215001904699.

Auditory brainstem implants: current neurosurgical experiences and perspective.

Matthies C(1), Thomas S, Moshrefi M, Lesinski-Schiedat A, Frohne C, Battmer RD, 
Lenarz T, Samii M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Klinikum Hannover-Nordstadt, Germany. 
cordula.matthies@debitel.net

The objective of this study was to present aspects of the current treatment 
protocol, such as patient evaluation and selection for therapy, multimodality 
monitoring for optimal auditory brainstem implant (ABI) positioning and 
radiological evaluation, that might have an impact on the functional results of 
ABI. Out of a series of 145 patients with bilateral vestibular schwannomas 10 
patients received an ABI, eight of which are reported here. Patient selection 
was based on disease course, clinical and radiological criteria (according to 
the Hannover evaluation and prognosis scaling of neurofibromatosis type 2 
(NF2)), extensive otological test battery and psycho-social factors. ABI 
placement was controlled by multimodality electrophysiological monitoring in 
order to activate the auditory pathway and to prevent false stimulation of the 
cranial nerve nuclei or long sensory or motor tracts. Results of hearing 
function were correlated with patients' ages, duration of deafness, tumour 
extension, tumour-induced compression or deformation of the brainstem, and 
numbers of activated electrodes without any side-effects. Out of 59 patients 
with pre-operative deafness eight patients received an ABI of the Nucleus 22 
type. All these patients became continuous users without any side effects and 
experienced improved quality of life. Speech reception in combination with 
lip-reading was markedly improved, with further improvement over a long period. 
A short duration of deafness may be favourable for achieving good results, while 
age was not a relevant factor. Lateral recess obstruction may necessitate a more 
meticulous dissection, but did not prevent good placement of the ABI in the 
lateral recess. Pre-existing brainstem compression did not prevent good results, 
but brainstem deformation and ipsi- and contralateral distortion were followed 
by a less favourable outcome. Among the factors that can be influenced by the 
therapy management are the selection of patients with a slow progressing NF2 
disease, a short duration of deafness, a careful analysis of brainstem 
deformation and consideration of either side for implantation. Long-standing 
brainstem deformation might not lead to recovery, but instead lead to a low 
number of active electrodes and possibly only moderate results. ABI treatment is 
a safe procedure that can increase a patient's quality of life considerably. ABI 
placement along with neurophysiological control helps to prevent side effects 
and to improve acoustic activation. Further studies on structural and functional 
changes of the brainstem after previous tumour compression and distortion should 
increase our understanding and facilitate a decision on the best side for ABI 
implantation.

DOI: 10.1258/0022215001904699
PMID: 11211435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Am J Public Health. 2001 Feb;91(2):239-44. doi: 10.2105/ajph.91.2.239.

Simulated effect of tobacco tax variation on population health in California.

Kaplan RM(1), Ake CF, Emery SL, Navarro AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, 0628, University of California, 
San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0628, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study simulated the effects of tobacco excise tax increases on 
population health.
METHODS: Five simulations were used to estimate health outcomes associated with 
tobacco tax policies: (1) the effects of price on smoking prevalence; (2) the 
effects of tobacco use on years of potential life lost; (3) the effect of 
tobacco use on quality of life (morbidity); (4) the integration of prevalence, 
mortality, and morbidity into a model of quality adjusted life years (QALYs); 
and (5) the development of confidence intervals around these estimates. Effects 
were estimated for 1 year after the tax's initiation and 75 years into the 
future.
RESULTS: In California, a $0.50 tax increase and price elasticity of -0.40 would 
result in about 8389 QALYs (95% confidence interval [CI] = 4629, 12,113) saved 
the first year. Greater benefits would accrue each year until a steady state was 
reached after 75 years, when 52,136 QALYs (95% CI = 38,297, 66,262) would accrue 
each year. Higher taxes would produce even greater health benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: A tobacco excise tax may be among a few policy options that will 
enhance a population's health status while making revenues available to 
government.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.91.2.239
PMCID: PMC1446521
PMID: 11211632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Blood Press. 2000;9(6):328-34. doi: 10.1080/080370500300000905.

Self-reported side-effects of antihypertensive drugs: an epidemiological study 
on prevalence and impact on health-state utility.

Bardage C(1), Isacson DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Services Research, Uppsala University, 
Sweden. Carola.Bardage@samfarm.uu.se

The aim in this study was to assess the frequency and type of self-reported 
side-effects among hypertensives in a general population, and to estimate the 
relationship between drug use and side-effects and health utility using the 
Rating Scale (RS) method. The study is based on a postal questionnaire that was 
sent to a random sample of 8000 inhabitants aged 20-84 years (response rate 68%) 
in Uppsala County, Sweden, in 1995. The results showed that nearly 20% of the 
users of antihypertensive drugs reported side-effects. Men and women reported 
side-effects to nearly the same extent. In the linear regression analyses, those 
with hypertension, with or without medication, rated lower health utilities 
(-6.0 and -7.1 respectively) than did normotensives after controlling for age 
and sex. The lowest value, -8.7, was found among drug users who experienced 
side-effects. Side-effects causing impotence and emotional distress, i.e. 
insomnia, tiredness and depression had the strongest negative impact on health 
utility. To conclude, the study showed that side-effects among hypertensives are 
common. Both the disease and the drug treatment adversely affect the patient's 
well-being. However, drug treatment was of less importance than that found in 
prior studies. The findings here stress that side-effects should be taken into 
greater consideration when evaluating drug treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/080370500300000905
PMID: 11212061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Cell Mol Life Sci. 1999 Nov 15;56(7-8):709-13. doi: 10.1007/s000180050464.

A C-terminally elongated form of PHI from porcine intestine.

Eriste E(1), Norberg A, Bonetto V, Nepomuceno D, Lovenberg TW, Sillard R, 
J√∂rnvall H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

A C-terminally elongated form of peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI) was 
isolated from porcine intestine based on its effect on cAMP production in IMR-32 
cells. The structure was determined by amino acid sequence analysis of tryptic 
fragments and by mass spectrometry. The peptide has 42 amino acid residues like 
those described from human, rat and mouse, but the amino acid sequence of the 
C-terminal extension of pig PHI is unique. Unlike the other peptides, it has a 
C-terminal Ala and it differs at five positions from the human form and at six 
positions from the rat form, while the human and the rat forms differ by only 
two substitutions. To avoid confusion arising from different C-terminal 
residues, a unifying nomenclature is proposed: PHI-27 for the hormone and PHI-42 
for the elongated product.

DOI: 10.1007/s000180050464
PMID: 11212317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2001 Feb;56(2):B89-93. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/56.2.b89.

Female sensitivity to diet and irradiation treatments underlies sex-mortality 
differentials in the Mediterranean fruit fly.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, M√ºller HG, Wang JL, Love B, Harshman L, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Large-scale experiments on medflies that were subjected to sterilizing doses of 
ionizing radiation (plus intact controls) and maintained on either sugar-only or 
full, protein-enriched diets revealed that, whereas the mortality trajectories 
of both intact and irradiated male cohorts maintained on both diets are similar, 
the mortality patterns of females are highly variable. Mean mortality rates at 
35 days in male cohorts ranged from 0.2 to 0.3 but in female cohorts ranged from 
0.09 to 0.35, depending on treatment. The study reports three main influences: 
(a) qualitative differences exist in the sex-mortality response of medflies 
subjected to dietary manipulations and irradiation; (b) the female mortality 
response is linked to increased vulnerability due to the nutritional demands of 
reproduction; and (c) female sensitivity to environmental changes underlies the 
dynamics of the sex-mortality differential.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/56.2.b89
PMID: 11213272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2001 Jan 25;90(4):91-5.

[Risk factors for arteriosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Henzen C(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Kantonsspital, Luzern. christoph.henzen@ksl.ch

The arteriosclerotic damage of the arterial endothelium is initiated by risk 
factors like dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking, which 
account for the majority of vascular morbidity and mortality. Interventional 
studies confirmed the causative role of hyperlipidemia, particularly of the 
modified LDL-cholesterol. A large number of epidemiological and interventional 
studies identified hypertension as another risk factor and showed the 
correlation between lowering blood pressure and the reduction in micro- and 
macrovascular complications. Diabetes mellitus decreases the life expectancy on 
average by 10 years, mainly due to cardiovascular disease. However, intensive 
control of blood glucose and blood pressure achieved a significant and 
clinically important reduction in death and complications related to diabetes. 
Smoking is a main risk factor for peripheral arterial disease and causes 
advanced arterial lesions in the younger people. Novel risk factors have been 
identified and contribute to the elucidation of the atherogenic process.

PMID: 11213573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. An Med Interna. 2000 Dec;17(12):628-31.

[Prevalence of hereditary hemochromatosis among healthy workers. Diagnostic 
value of transferrin saturation assay].

[Article in Spanish]

Mart√≠nez-V√°zquez C(1), Mart√≠nez Cadilla J, Gil M, Sope√±a B, Torres J, Cordeiro 
E, Seijas M, de la Fuente J, M√©ndez MJ.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna y Aparato Digestivo, Complejo Hospitalario 
Xeral-C√≠es, Vigo, Universidad de Santiago, Vigo.

Comment in
    An Med Interna. 2000 Dec;17(12):625-7.

AIM: Hereditary hemochromatosis is the most common inherited disorder in white 
population (2-8 cases per 1000 habitants). Hemochromatosis is characterized by 
increased intestinal absorption of iron leading to its deposition into multiple 
organs. An early diagnosis and proper management with frequent phlebotomies are 
known to improve life expectancy and quality of life. Diagnosis is suggested by 
an elevated Transferrin saturation (TS) (more than 60%).
METHOD: Prospective study of the level of TS among 1131 healthy workers, who 
came to the Security and Hygiene Official Centre for their annual revision had 
been undertaken.
RESULTS: Twenty-wo workers had high TS; in 10 of them the increase of TS was 
confirmed on repeated determinations. Liver biopsy was performed in six (and 
refused by the other four), eventually a diagnosis of hemochromatosis was 
confirmed in three (in-group prevalence of 2.6 per 1000 people).
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, TS is the most appropriate initial screening 
test for detecting hereditary hemochromatosis in a normal population.

PMID: 11213576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 2000 Dec;10 Suppl 1:33-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1072412.

Longevity of patients born with myelomeningocele.

Dillon CM(1), Davis BE, Duguay S, Seidel KD, Shurtleff DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle 98195, USA.

There are limited data concerning the life expectancy for individuals born with 
myelomeningocele (MM), with and without hydrocephalus. To ascertain such data 
was our first purpose. We have selected all patients with MM in our computer 
database, The Patient Data Management System (PDMS/fx). Data were transferred to 
Excel for primary and SPSS/PC for final analysis by Kaplan-Meier life survival 
curves. Of the 1,054 patients with MM in the Birth Defects Clinic and the 
University of Washington Medical Center (UWMC) of Seattle, 505 are now over the 
age of 21 (391) or have died (114). Follow-up information was available since 
1994 for 132, 62% of whom we have had contact within the past 2 years. The 
second purpose was to identify potential health factors associated with 
long-term outcome of patients with MM. Patient variables chosen as relevant to 
survival included hydrocephalus, treatment before or after 1975, and health 
maintenance determined by outcome for those receiving care within the last 5 
years or those last seen before. Age at last appointment and reason for visit 
were determined in order to identify age-specific health care needs of the adult 
population. Survival and medical needs were obtained from the UWMC's computer 
database, Mindscape, and by telephone survey for adult patients not seen in the 
last 2 years. Death is more frequent earlier in life for those MM patients with 
hydrocephalus. Ordinary degenerative disorders affect MM patients earlier in 
life than normals. Our data extend life expectancy for patients with MM and 
hydrocephalus to age 40 years with some reliability for those treated from 1957 
to 1974, but only 24 years for those treated with modern techniques after 1974. 
More data is needed to determine long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1072412
PMID: 11214830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Healthc Manage Forum. 2000 Winter;13(4):45-8. doi: 
10.1016/S0840-4704(10)60796-X.

Going beyond triage in Tajikistan. Health reform in the former Soviet Union.

Alidina S(1), Annett H.

Author information:
(1)Child Health Network for the Greater Toronto Area.

Tajikistan is among the few countries where life expectancy diminished during 
the 1990's. To rebuild a health system fractured by economic collapse, political 
disintegration and civil war, the Essential Hospital Services Project was 
initiated to restore essential hospital services, encourage structural reform 
and build the health system's capacity to sustain itself. The article provides 
an overview of these reform efforts, outlines some of the challenges of health 
reform in Tajikistan and illustrates the benefits global partnerships can 
achieve when sharing creative new approaches to health reform.

DOI: 10.1016/S0840-4704(10)60796-X
PMID: 11214986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2001 Jan;2(1):12-7.

[Need and quality assurance: can the introduction of the new generation mobile 
systems change the reference standards?].

[Article in Italian]

Marzocchi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Cardiologia, Universit√† degli Studi, Bologna. 
antonio.marzocchi@tin.it

The new generation of radiological mobile systems, by lowering the installation 
and depreciation expenses, has led to start new low volume catheterization 
laboratories. These equipments allow to obtain good quality images, but they are 
not so reliable for extended performances, so that they are not suitable for 
interventional procedures. On the other hand, the extension of the indications 
to coronary angiography and angioplasty, with the related increase in the 
population needs, leads the resetting of the reference areas to start new 
catheterization laboratories. Anyhow lowering of expenses and of the extension 
of the reference areas does not change the need for maintaining high activity 
levels of centers and first operators in order to guarantee the quality of 
diagnostic and interventional procedures. The optimal levels of centers in 
national standards are 800 coronary angiographies and 400 coronary angioplasties 
per year: these numbers indicate the experience necessary to warrant the quality 
of procedures, with optimal results and low rate of complications, therefore 
they should not be changed. The spreading of laboratories due to the new low 
cost radiological equipments leads to an increase in inappropriate procedures 
and in the total expenses for the management of cardiac patients, without a 
proportional advantage in prognosis and quality of life. In order to ensure a 
quick diagnostic and therapeutic process to all the patients who need invasive 
procedures, instead of starting new centers, it is worthwhile to perfect the 
efficiency of links among small and main centers following shared pathways.

PMID: 11216077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nutr Hosp. 2000 Nov-Dec;15(6):280-90.

[Feeding and nutrition in Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferrero L√≥pez MI(1), Botella Trelis JJ.

Author information:
(1)Enfermera, Servicio de Diet√©tica, Hospital Dr. Moliner, Conselleria de 
Sanitat, Serra, Valencia, Espa√±a.

Dementia is an organic brain disease. The most frequent type of dementia is 
Alzheimer's and it affects mostly elderly people. Due to the increase in life 
expectancy and to the ageing of the population, Alzheimer's has recently become 
an area of research of interest. The eating behaviour and nutrition of elderly 
people has some special characteristics which become particularly relevant 
during illness. An Alzheimer's patient suffers a progressive decay in their 
functional and physical abilities, and these renders them at high nutritional 
risk. Prevention, rapid intervention and ensuring an adequate nutritional intake 
is essential in each of the dementia stages. This paper reviews the most 
important nutrients influencing the development or worsening of dementia and the 
guidelines for food intake throughout the disease.

PMID: 11216096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Contemp Health Law Policy. 2000 Winter;17(1):321-47.

The viatical settlement industry: betting on people's lives is certainly no 
"exacta".

Ray LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, LLP, USA.

PMID: 11216342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 Feb;23(2):93-8. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200102000-00005.

Selective use of whole-lung irradiation for patients with Ewing sarcoma family 
tumors and pulmonary metastases at the time of diagnosis.

Spunt SL(1), McCarville MB, Kun LE, Poquette CA, Cain AM, Brandao L, Pappo AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee 38105-2794, USA. sheri.spunt@stjude.org

Erratum in
    J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2001 Dec;23(9):637.

PURPOSE: The benefit of whole-lung irradiation (WLI) for patients who have 
pulmonary metastases (PM) of Ewing sarcoma family tumors (ESFT) is unclear. At 
our institution, WLI is reserved for patients with PM that do not respond 
completely to induction chemotherapy. We reviewed our experience to assess the 
impact of WLI on clinical outcome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-eight patients with ESFT and PM were treated in 
three consecutive institutional trials (1979-1996). Extent of pulmonary 
involvement at diagnosis, response of PM after induction chemotherapy, local 
treatment of PM thereafter, and clinical outcome were recorded. Treatment 
included primary tumor surgery and/or radiotherapy and 42 to 58 weeks of 
multiagent chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Only eight patients (29%) received WLI. For the entire study group, the 
estimated 5-year event-free survival was 22.9% +/- 9.0%; the 5-year survival was 
37.3% +/- 9.8%. Complete resolution of PM after induction chemotherapy was not 
correlated with survival (P = 0.53), nor was treatment with WLI (P = 0.87).
CONCLUSIONS: The comparable survival of patients with poor and good response of 
PM to induction chemotherapy suggests that WLI may benefit poor responders. The 
use of WLI in good responders may provide similar benefit and merits further 
study.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200102000-00005
PMID: 11216713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Prog Urol. 2000 Dec;10(6):1271-6.

[Prostatic biopsies: technical modalities and conditions of the test].

[Article in French]

Ravery V(1), Fontaine E, Villers A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, H√¥pital Bichat, Paris, France. 
vincent.ravery@bch.ap-hop-paris.fr

Histological examination of prostate biopsies is necessary for the diagnosis of 
prostate cancer. The technical modalities and examination conditions of prostate 
biopsies were evaluated in the light of a review of the literature and the 
conclusions are presented in the form of standards, options and recommendations.
STANDARDS: The standard or modified protocol of 6 sextant biopsies, applied as 
first-line investigation in all cases of stage T1c or T2 prostate cancer is a 
standard procedure and remains a reproducible, effective and well tolerated 
method for diagnosis and staging. Rectal preparation by enema and prophylactic 
antibiotics before the examination decrease the risk of infectious 
complications. In its usual modality used for the majority of patients, biopsies 
are performed as an outpatient procedure, with or without local anaesthesia, 
with ultrasound guidance via a transrectal approach using an 18 Gauge needle 
(pink colour code), mounted on an automatic biopsy gun and especially sampling 
the posterior and lateral zone. The patient must be given written information 
explaining the risks and management of possible complications following this 
examination.
OPTIONS: Local, regional or general anaesthesia may be necessary in a minority 
of cases, either in the context of a protocol of extensive systematized biopsies 
(more than 10 biopsies), or in the case of repeated examination, or when 
preferred by the patient. Modified extensive protocols (sextant plus 
posterolateral zones or sextant plus anterior zones) applied to all cases as 
first-line procedure is a useful option, particularly when: 1) a first series of 
biopsies was negative 2) PSA is < or = 10 ng/ml and digital rectal examination 
is normal (sextant plus posterolateral zones) 3) the prostate is larger than 50 
cm3 (sextant plus anterior zones). The transperineal approach is less reliable 
for detection and staging, and is used when the transrectal approach is 
contraindicated. When curative treatment is not considered (life expectancy < 10 
years, patient's choice, stage T3, T4), the number of biopsies can be decreased. 
Transurethral resection of the prostate is not recommended as first-line 
procedure for the diagnosis of prostate cancer.
RECOMMENDATIONS: Written information given to the patient during the visit prior 
to biopsy to explain the objectives, practical modalities and risks of prostate 
biopsies facilitates the patient's cooperation during the examination and 
increases its tolerance.

PMID: 11217574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Child Neurol. 2000;15 Suppl 1:S7-13. doi: 10.1177/0883073800015001S03.

Use of topiramate in childhood generalized seizure disorders.

Wheless JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas-Houston, 77030, USA. 
jamesw.wheless@uth.tmc.edu

Topiramate is a sulfamate derivative of the naturally occurring monosaccharide 
D-fructose. It was initially approved in the United States as adjunctive therapy 
for partial seizures in 1997. However, there is increasing evidence that it is 
effective in the treatment of generalized seizures and epilepsy syndromes. 
Initially, open-label studies using topiramate as add-on therapy in children 
with refractory generalized seizure types were performed. These showed 
improvement in patients with the following generalized seizure types: typical 
and atypical absence, atonic, myoclonic, generalized tonic-clonic, and juvenile 
myoclonic epilepsy. Double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentered studies in 
patients with refractory primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures and epilepsy 
syndromes were performed. The median reduction in seizure frequency for primary 
generalized tonic-clonic seizures was 56.7% for topiramate and 9% for placebo. 
Additionally, 13.6% of topiramate-treated patients were primary generalized 
tonic-clonic seizure free for the study period. In the topiramate-treated 
juvenile myoclonic epilepsy patients, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures 
were reduced > 50% in 73% of patients. Open-label extension showed that primary 
generalized tonic-clonic seizures were reduced >50% in 63% of topiramate-treated 
patients for > or = 6 months, and 16% were primary generalized tonic-clonic 
seizure free > or = 6 months. Accumulating evidence suggests that topiramate has 
a broad spectrum of antiepileptic effect. Moreover, life-threatening organ 
toxicity has not been attributed to topiramate. Topiramate is an effective 
treatment for refractory generalized seizure types and epilepsy syndromes 
encountered in children.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073800015001S03
PMID: 11218056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Tumori. 2000 Nov-Dec;86(6):458-64. doi: 10.1177/030089160008600605.

Cellular and clinical pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic basis for lack of efficacy 
of 21-day continuous topotecan in patients with untreated advanced 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

Mans DR(1), Di Leone L, Ferrary Caldas AP, Maino M, Almeida L, Cancela AI, 
Grivicich I, Brondani da Rocha A, Schwartsmann G.

Author information:
(1)South-American Office for Anticancer Drug Development (SOAD), Lutheran 
University of Brazil, Canoas.

BACKGROUND: In a phase II study, topotecan was evaluated for response and 
toxicity in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma at the schedule of 0.7 
mg/m2/day q 21 days q 28 days.
METHODS: Responses were assessed after at least 2 courses using WHO criteria, 
and toxicity was evaluated after each course according to the CTC-NCI standards. 
Between December 1995 and September 1997, 15 assessable patients (median age, 55 
years; range, 36-74; median ECOG performance, 1; range, 0-3) were included in 
the study. All had biopsy-proven and measurable disease, a life-expectancy of at 
least 3 months, and normal bone marrow, liver, and renal function. None of the 
patients had undergone prior cytotoxic or radiation therapy, and 10 were 
initially treated by surgery. Twenty-five cycles were assessable for toxicity. 
Plasma was collected from 7 patients who had received a total of 10 cycles and 
was, after extraction with methanol at -20 degrees C, analyzed for total 
topotecan by an HPLC method. The thus determined steady-state concentrations 
were assessed for their capacity to affect growth and DNA integrity in the 
BxPC-3 human pancreatic carcinoma cell line after 21 days of continuous 
exposure. For these purposes, we used a sulforhodamine B staining assay, and 
agarose gel electrophoresis, respectively.
RESULTS: Grades 3-4 leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, granulocytopenia, and anemia 
occurred in 8, 6, 8 and 8 cycles, respectively. Other mild to moderate side 
effects (grades 1-2) included malaise, nausea and vomiting, anorexia, and 
alopecia. No objective tumor response was documented. HPLC analysis of patients' 
plasma showed the attainment of constant steady-state levels of 1.0+/-0.1 ng/mL 
during the entire infusion period. At such a concentration, topotecan did not 
significantly affect growth or DNA integrity in the BxPC-3 cells. Fifty percent 
cell growth inhibition and appreciable oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation were 
only evident with 21 days topotecan > or = 50 ng/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the lack of clinical activity of 0.7 mg/m2 
daily topotecan for 21 days q 28 days in patients with advanced pancreatic 
carcinoma might be partially attributed to the achievement of non-tumoricidal 
plasma drug concentrations.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160008600605
PMID: 11218186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2001 Jan;36(1):2-15. doi: 10.1080/00365520150218002.

A critical review of epidemiological studies in inflammatory bowel disease.

Farrokhyar F(1), Swarbrick ET, Irvine EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Health Sciences Center, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Erratum in
    Scand J Gastroenterol 2001 Jun;36(6):facing 561.

Comment in
    Scand J Gastroenterol. 2001 Sep;36(9):1008.

This review addresses the difficulty in interpreting the results of 
epidemiological studies in IBD and in making meaningful comparisons between 
studies. Both ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease appear to be more common in 
some industrialized countries such as Scandinavia, United Kingdom, North America 
and less common in Central and Southern Europe, Asia and Africa. Given data 
showing an increased incidence of ulcerative colitis in the United Kingdom, it 
is crucial that more studies be conducted in developing countries. While the 
incidence of Crohn disease has increased strikingly in many areas, the incidence 
of ulcerative colitis has remained fairly stable in most. This could be due to 
the rising number of community-based studies, as well as the improved accuracy 
in diagnosing Crohn disease. Although, the incidence of IBD among Blacks in 
Africa is low, infection rates are high, life expectancy is lower than in 
developed countries. Data from the USA suggest that rates are similar in 
Afro-American and Caucasian populations. Rates for Jewish populations may be 
slightly higher than in non-Jewish populations but this also varies 
geographically. Careful attention to genetic, environmental, and socioeconomic 
factors must be accounted for in these studies. There is no strong evidence to 
support that IBD is more common in urban than in rural settings and migration 
towards more accessible health care has not been adequately addressed. Recent 
epidemiological studies suggest that mortality rates for IBD are similar to that 
of the general population for the majority of patients. However, older patients 
with IBD and newly diagnosed cases with severe diseases are at increased risk of 
dying. Epidemiological studies remain important in assisting with health policy 
planning and in hypothesis testing of etiological factors. As better diagnostic 
techniques become widely available and public health registries are increasingly 
used, it is possible that geographic differences will diminish. International 
collaborative studies will be better equipped to answer research questions 
addressing risk factors and disease natural history. We have summarized in Table 
V the essential criteria to conduct a sound epidemiological study, which would 
permit future testing of hypotheses among different populations.

DOI: 10.1080/00365520150218002
PMID: 11218235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Ugeskr Laeger. 2001 Jan 22;163(4):425-9.

[Trends in dietary habits in Denmark and Sweden since the 1960s].

[Article in Danish]

Groth MV(1), Fagt S.

Author information:
(1)K√∏benhavns Universitet, Institut for Folkesundhedsvidenskab. 
m.groth@dadlnet.dk

Dietary habits in Denmark and Sweden are compared during the period 1965-1998 
based on data from Food Balance Sheets. Common trends are an increase in 
consumption of vegetables, fruits, berries and meat and a decrease in 
consumption of fats. In the latest ten years percentage of energy from fat has 
also decreased. Denmark has a higher consumption of fats and meat and a lower 
consumption of fruits, berries and fish. These differences contribute to a 
higher percentage of energy from fat in the Danish diet compared to the Swedish. 
Data consequently indicate that dietary habits in Sweden are healthier than in 
Denmark. Differences in dietary habits may have contributed to differences in 
life expectancy between the countries. Disparities in dietary habits are seen in 
both countries. The tendency is greater social differences in Denmark.

PMID: 11218777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Clin Liver Dis. 2001 Feb;5(1):43-68. doi: 10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70153-7.

Animal models of hepadnavirus-associated hepatocellular carcinoma.

Tennant BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York, USA.

Animal models of hepatitis B virus infection have been valuable for determining 
the mechanisms of hepadnavirus replication, for studies of pathogenesis, and for 
investigations of viral hepatocarcinogenesis. The woodchuck model also seems to 
be useful in the discovery and development of antiviral drugs to treat HBV 
infection and for testing new forms of immunotherapy. In particular, the 
woodchuck seems to be ideal for studying the effect of antiviral treatment and 
immunotherapy on the outcome of hepadnavirus infection and on survival. The 
median life expectancy of experimentally infected, chronic WHV carriers is 
approximately 29 months, and almost all develop HCC. New types of prophylaxis or 
therapy can be evaluated under controlled experimental conditions, in a relevant 
animal model, and within a reasonable time frame.

DOI: 10.1016/s1089-3261(05)70153-7
PMID: 11218919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2000;101(11):589-93.

Health-status of the Slovak Republic population in comparison with countries of 
Central Europe and European Union.

Ginter E.

The Central Europe (CE) countries are probably to become members of the European 
Union (EU) in a few years' time. This overview compares the health trends of 
Slovak Republic (SK) population in comparison with Central Europe countries 
(Czech Republic (CZ), Poland (PL) and Hungary (H)) and with the weighed mean of 
EU. The life expectancy of males and females at birth is significantly higher in 
EU, and this difference is not caused by substantially different infant 
mortality rate. Total premature mortality is significantly higher in CE and the 
differences in mortality due to cardiovascular diseases are the main cause of 
this gap. Cancer mortality in males, but not in females is the second most 
important difference. Breast cancer mortality rates in SK, CZ and PL are even 
lower than the EU average. Male mortality due to external causes is the third 
most important difference between EU and CE. The differences in mortality due to 
infectious diseases and due to diseases of respiratory system are not very 
great. After the political changes in 1989/90, the decline in cardiovascular 
mortality, mortality due to external causes and due to respiratory system 
diseases were observed in CE. Unfortunately, this is not true with cancer 
mortality. The rank of health status of four CE countries is as follows: the CZ 
is in the best situation, followed by SK and PL. There is an evident gap between 
these 3 countries and Hungary. The differences between EU and CE at the end of 
the 20th century are still relatively great, but in CZ, SK and PL there is the 
tendency to overcome this gap in the first 10-15 years of the next century. 
(Tab. 2, Fig. 6, Ref. 18.)

PMID: 11218954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2000;101(11):619-21.

[Cardiovascular diseases at the turn of the millenium].

[Article in Slovak]

Riecansky I(1).

Author information:
(1)Kardiologick√° klinika Slovensk√©ho √∫stavu srdcov√Ωch a cievnych chor√¥b v 
Bratislave. bll@fmed.uniba.sk

The coronary disease of the heart (CDH) will be the most frequent cause of 
mortality and inability to work in the 21st century not only in industrially 
advanced countries but also in the developing countries. This unfavourable, 
assumedly paradoxical tendency persevering despite the significant progress in 
diagnosis and therapy is caused by two circumstances: ageing of population 
(prolonged mean life expectancy) and the increase in the number of individuals 
afflicted with (CDH) and living up to high age. In result of this development, 
the rapid increase in the prevalence of heart failure, especially in the aged, 
becomes the main cause of mortality, morbidity and hospitalisation.

PMID: 11218962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Geriatrics. 2001 Feb;56(2):39, 42, 47-8 passim.

Prostate cancer Tx. Therapeutic options based on tumor grade, life expectancy, 
and patient preferences.

Cohen SP(1), Jaskulsky SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, USA.

Cancer of the prostate is the most common malignancy in American men. Its 
incidence is associated with age, race, family history, and life style factors, 
such as high-fat diets. Some men develop prostate cancer before age 55, but 80% 
of tumors occur in men older than age 65. For organ-confined prostate cancers, 
treatment options include observation, radical prostatectomy, external beam or 
interstitial radiation, and cryoablation. The appropriate therapeutic decision 
is based on analysis of multiple factors by the physician and the individual 
patient. Advanced prostate cancer remains incurable, but hormonal manipulation 
and newer chemotherapeutic regimens offer palliation in later stages of the 
disease.

PMID: 11219024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Epidemiol Prev. 2000 Nov-Dec;24(6):262-9.

[Health status indicators: features of the economic approach].

[Article in Italian]

Ghislandi S(1), Bertolini G, Garattini L.

Author information:
(1)CESAV-Centro di economia sanitaria Angelo e Angela Valenti dell'Istituto M. 
Negri, Ranica, BG.

Quality of Life (QoL) instruments are often considered similar, since they all 
concern subjective health state valuations. Actually, among the set of QoL 
scales, it is possible to distinguish two approaches, different in terms of both 
goals and tools. The clinical approach elicits functional limitations as 
perceived by patients, the economic approach is aimed at solving allocation 
problems generated by scarsity of resources. The major goal of this article is 
to analyse the economic approach to health state subjective valuation. By using 
QoL questionnaires, economists attempt to set up quantitative indexes which can 
value any kind of health outcome. Thus the economic approach seems to be more 
ambitious than the clinical one. However, the results so far achieved are quite 
disappointing, especially if compared to those of the clinical approach. In 
particular, economic scales still suffer a general lack of validation, due to 
the scarcity of studies conducted on relevant samples. Accordingly, indexes now 
available seem to require substantial revision. In general, further significant 
efforts seem necessary to improve the methodology inside the field of HRQoL 
measures. Integrating the two approaches, as recently attempted, could be a 
sound strategy.

PMID: 11219203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2001 Jan;6(1):38-43. doi:
10.1258/1355819011927189.

Developing appropriate measures of the benefits of complementary and alternative 
medicine.

Meenan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Research, Northwest and Hawaii, Kaiser Permanente 
Northwest, 3800 N. Interstate Avenue, Portland, OR 97227, USA.

Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) is growing in popularity and 
consumes increasing amounts of resources. Economic evaluations such as 
cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) are intended to inform decision-makers about 
the relative efficiency of different interventions, including CAM. To be 
generalizable, economic evaluations should use the same metric to assess health 
benefits--e.g. quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). However, the recurrent 
conditions for which CAM is typically used suggest that the health benefits of 
CAM will manifest themselves primarily as quality-of-life improvements that 
appear in CEA as 'utilities' attached to health states. Therefore, appropriate 
utility measures will be critical to the production of valid CEAs of CAM 
therapies. Some economists assert that the process of health care, as well as 
its outcome, can contribute to patient utility. This essay argues that process 
utility is especially relevant to CAM; accurate assessment of process utility 
will be important to valid economic evaluations of CAM; existing utility 
assessment methods do not directly account for process utility; and, therefore, 
techniques such as qualitative analysis that can inform more appropriate and 
complete assessments of the benefits of CAM should be explored. The 
heterogeneity of CAM modalities suggests that the arguments made in this essay 
will apply with similar force to economic evaluation of conventional therapies 
