with which CAM is likely to be compared.

DOI: 10.1258/1355819011927189
PMID: 11219359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Med J Aust. 2001 Jan 1;174(1):21-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143140.x.

Death, disease and diversity in Australia, 1951 to 2000.

Hetzel DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Information, Development Unit, University of Adelaide, SA. 
di.hetzel@adelaide.edu.au

There has been a substantial decline in mortality in Australia during the 20th 
century, with a major improvement in life expectancy. There has been a broad 
"health transition", from a pattern of high mortality from infectious diseases 
to one of lower overall mortality from non-communicable diseases and injury. 
From 1951, trends in death rates from major causes were evident, with the rise 
and partial fall of two epidemics (coronary heart disease and stroke, and lung 
cancer). This overall picture masks significant inequalities in health for 
Indigenous people and the socioeconomically disadvantaged.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143140.x
PMID: 11219786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Med Arh. 2000;54(5-6):285-7.

[Tetralogy of Fallot: postoperative monitoring of patients].

[Article in Croatian]

Terzić R(1), Dinarević S, Begić Z.

Author information:
(1)Pedijatrijska klinika, Klinicki centar Univerziteta u Sarajevu.

In 25 patients, 13 boys and 12 girls, median age 5.5 years, in 1990-2000, 
surgical reparation of their heart defects were performed. Median age of 
diagnostic Tetralogy of Fallot was 3.2 months, range 1 day-2 years. Anoxic 
spells were present in three patients. Ten patients (median age 3 years, range 3 
months-10 years) initially palliated with a modified Blalock-Taussig shunt, 
underwent a reparation at a median of 4.5 years after palliation. Median follow 
up was 4.2 years, range 3 months-10 years. The 30-day mortality rate was 16%. 
Mean right ventricular outflow tract gradient on echocardiography was 20.20 +/- 
4.78, and mean oxygen saturation was 96% +/- 1.3. Two patients had non 
significant residual ventricular septal defect with left to right shunt, 7 right 
ventricular enlargement and almost all mild pulmonary regurgitation. Also two 
patients had Blalock-Taussig shunt's thrombosis. Before surgical reparation, one 
boy showed pulmonary valve's endocarditis. Complete atrioventricular block has 
been developed on one girl. No patient required reintervention during follow up 
and there was no late mortality. Almost all of our patients were asymptomatic, 
had normal activity, regularly exercised and some of them participated in school 
sport programs. Complete correction of Tetralogy of Fallot showed good results 
with normal life expectancy for the patients.

PMID: 11219906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Feb;55(2):151-2. doi:
10.1136/jech.55.2.151.

Absolute income and life expectancy.

Der G.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.2.151
PMCID: PMC1731824
PMID: 11220229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2000 Dec;72(4):135-7.

[Ultrasonography and Doppler color ultrasonography in kidney neoplasms: the 
demands of the clinician].

[Article in Italian]

Porena M(1), Del Zingaro M, Fornetti P, Salomone U, Rosi P.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Urologica, Università di Perugia.

The high number of diagnostic methods for images (ultrasound, computer 
tomography--CT, magnetic nuclear resonance--MNR) has allowed the urologist 
diagnosis more precocious of renal masses contributing to increase the survival 
rate and quality of life of patients affected by renal carcinoma. Although many 
are the advantages that the ultrasound scan gives to the urologist, still today 
in presence of ultrasound scan results showing expansive renal masses, probably 
malignant, many perform a CT or MNR for diagnostic confirmation and tumor 
extension.

PMID: 11221025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Ann Vasc Surg. 2001 Jan;15(1):67-72. doi: 10.1007/s100160010012.

Combined iliac angioplasty and infrainguinal revascularization surgery are 
effective in diabetic patients with multilevel arterial disease.

Faries PL(1), Brophy D, LoGerfo FW, Akbari CM, Campbell DR, Spence LD, Hook SC, 
Pomposelli FB Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA. 
peter.faries@mssm.edu

The success of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in the treatment of 
common and external iliac atherosclerotic lesions has been established for the 
general population. However, several studies have suggested that the presence of 
diabetes may reduce the effectiveness of iliac angioplasty, particularly in the 
setting of limb-threatening ischemia requiring concomitant lower extremity 
revascularization. This study compared the results of iliac artery PTA performed 
in conjunction with infrainguinal bypass for limb-threatening ischemia for 
diabetic (DM) and nondiabetic (non-DM) patients. Between 1991 and 2000, 159 PTA 
were performed in 126 patients (DM = 99/79%, non-DM = 27/21%) in conjunction 
with subsequent infrainguinal bypass for limb-threatening ischemia (gangrene = 
42%, ulcer = 36%, rest pain = 22%). These patients were followed prospectively 
using a computerized vascular registry. Stents were placed in 34 (21.4%) cases 
for suboptimal angioplasty results. In this study the combined use of standard 
surgical and endoluminal modalities for the treatment of multilevel arterial 
occlusive disease resulted in excellent cumulative patency and limb salvage 
rates. The presence of diabetes did not alter these favorable results. 
Multimodal vascular therapy may be used effectively in diabetic patients with 
limb-threatening ischemia due to multiple levels of arterial occlusion.

DOI: 10.1007/s100160010012
PMID: 11221947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Ann Vasc Surg. 2001 Jan;15(1):89-97. doi: 10.1007/s100160010002.

The value and limitations of the arm cephalic and basilic vein for arteriovenous 
access.

Ascher E(1), Hingoran A, Gunduz Y, Yorkovich Y, Ward M, Miranda J, Tsemekhin B, 
Kleiner M, Greenberg S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY 11219, USA. 
anilph@aol.com

The National Kidney Foundation has identified the use arteriovenous grafts (AVG) 
and the interventions required to maintain their patency as two major causes of 
increased expenditure in the management of hemodialysis access in end-stage 
renal disease patients. They have issued an appeal for the increased use of 
native arteriovenous fistulae (AVF). Although the radialcephalic AVF is 
considered to be the procedure of choice for these patients, other veins should 
be sought after to maintain an all-autogenous AVF policy. We examined our 
experience of using arm veins that were transposed to the brachial artery. Over 
the last 2.5 years, 109 brachiocephalic AVF (BCAVF) and 63 brachiobasilic AVF 
(BBAVF) were placed in 163 patients with chronic renal failure. In each group, 
40 and 25 patients were males, respectively. Ages ranged from 29 to 88 years 
(mean 67+/-1.4 years) and 37 to 84 years (mean 69+/-2.0 years) in each group. 
Diabetic patients comprised 56 and 65% of each group and hypertensive patients 
comprised 73 and 75% of each group. Data collection was via chart review, 
personal interviews, and review of the dialysis records. Patency was assessed by 
life-table analysis. The log-rank test was performed in conjunction with 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Our results showed that the use of BCAVF and 
BBAVF appears to be a viable alternative to prosthetic arteriovenous grafts. On 
the basis of our experience, an algorithm for placement of AVF is suggested.

DOI: 10.1007/s100160010002
PMID: 11221952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Mar;85(3):327-31. doi: 10.1136/bjo.85.3.327.

Utility values associated with blindness in an adult population.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Sharma S, Kistler J, Brown H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Flourtown, PA 19031, USA. 
Lissa1011@aol.com

AIM: To ascertain utility values associated with varying degrees of legal 
blindness.
METHODS: A cross sectional study on three group of patients. There were: (1) 15 
patients with complete absence of vision (no light perception) in at least one 
eye who were asked to assume a scenario of no light perception in the second eye 
as well, (2) 17 patients with light perception to counting fingers in the better 
seeing eye, and (3) 33 patients with 20/200-20/400 vision in the better seeing 
eye. Utility values were measured using the time trade-off and standard gamble 
methods in each of the three groups.
RESULTS: The mean time trade-off utility value for the no light perception group 
with the theoretical scenario of bilateral absence of light perception was 0.26 
(95% CI, 0.19-0.33). The mean utility value for the light perception to counting 
fingers group was 0.47 (95% CI, 0.33-0.61), and the mean utility value for the 
20/200-20/400 group was 0.65 (95% CI, 0.58-0.72). Thus, patients with no light 
perception in one eye, who were presented with the same scenario in the second 
eye as well, were willing to trade almost 3 out of every 4 years of remaining 
life in return for perfect vision in each eye. Those with light perception to 
counting fingers would trade approximately 1 of 2 remaining years and those with 
20/200-20/400 would trade approximately 1 of 3 remaining years.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a wide range of utility values associated with legal 
blindness. The utility value decreases dramatically with perceived total loss of 
vision (absence of light perception in each eye), compared with counting fingers 
to light perception vision, indicating that the preservation of even small 
amounts of vision in patients with legal blindness is critically important to 
their wellbeing and functioning in life.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.85.3.327
PMCID: PMC1723892
PMID: 11222340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2001 Feb;112(2):183-91. doi: 
10.1016/s0166-6851(00)00362-5.

Cloning of a pyruvate phosphate dikinase from Trypanosoma cruzi.

Maldonado RA(1), Fairlamb AH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Microbiology, School of Life 
Sciences, Wellcome Trust Biocentre, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

We have cloned and characterised a gene that encodes a putative pyruvate 
phosphate dikinase (PPDK) from Trypanosoma cruzi, an enzyme that catalyses the 
reversible conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate to pyruvate. PPDK is absent in 
mammalian cells, but has been found in a wide variety of other organisms, 
including plants and bacteria. In T. cruzi, two genes (PPDK1 and PPDK2) are 
present in a tandem array localised on a 1 Mbp chromosome. Northern and Western 
blot analyses indicates that PPDK is expressed as a 100-kDa protein in 
epimastigote, amastigote and trypomastigote forms. PPDK1 and PPDK2 encode an 
identical protein of 100.8 kDa with a C-terminal extension ending with the 
sequence AKL, a signal for glycosomal import. Both T. cruzi and T. brucei 
enzymes possess a 23-residue insertion, that is absent in other PPDKs. A 
three-dimensional alignment with the crystal structure of the enzyme from 
Clostridium symbiosum predicts that this insertion is located on the surface of 
the nucleotide-binding domain. Phylogenetic studies indicate that bacterial and 
protist PPDKs cluster as a separate group from those of plants. The evolutionary 
implications and possible role of this enzyme in T. cruzi is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-6851(00)00362-5
PMID: 11223125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Prog Pediatr Cardiol. 2001 Jan;12(2):195-198. doi: 
10.1016/s1058-9813(00)00073-4.

Active and passive tobacco exposure.

Gidding SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Nemours Cardiac Center, 1600 Rockland Road, 19899, Wilmington, DE, USA

Both passive and active exposure to tobacco smoke have adverse cardiovascular 
consequences for children and adolescents. Smoking as a habit begins in 
mid-adolescence and is perpetuated by the highly addictive nature of nicotine. 
Smoking has been associated with decreased life expectancy from all causes and 
early atherogenesis. The physiologic effects of active, and possibly passive 
smoke exposure include endothelial injury, increased oxidizability of LDL 
cholesterol, lower HDL cholesterol, impaired exercise performance, and altered 
oxygen delivery. Physician roles have been limited to research into the harmful 
nature of tobacco in the past, but new roles in advocacy against tobacco 
companies and the treatment of nicotine addiction are evolving.

DOI: 10.1016/s1058-9813(00)00073-4
PMID: 11223347


652. Am J Med Genet. 2001 Jan 15;98(2):176-81. doi: 
10.1002/1096-8628(20010115)98:2<176::aid-ajmg1027>3.0.co;2-q.

Genetic study of SOX9 in a case of campomelic dysplasia.

Giordano J(1), Prior HM, Bamforth JS, Walter MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada.

Campomelic dysplasia (CD) is a sporadic autosomal dominant syndrome that results 
in skeletal malformation and developmental abnormalities. Death usually occurs 
neonatally as a result of respiratory insufficiencies, but life expectancy 
varies depending on the severity of the phenotype. XY sex reversal is common in 
CD, and a range of genital defects is observed in males and females. CD is due 
to mutations in SOX9, a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG box) gene family. 
SOX9 is a transcription factor involved in chondrogenesis and sex determination. 
We present a CD patient with a normal 46,XX karyotype and female phenotype. 
Single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis of DNA from this CD patient 
demonstrated a single-stranded conformation polymorphism shift in the C-terminal 
region of SOX9. DNA sequencing showed a frameshift mutation resulting from the 
insertion of a single guanine residue in nucleotide region 1,453-1,456. This 
insertion mutation creates a mutant SOX9 open reading frame that is 201 
nucleotides longer than the normal gene. It has been shown that the C-terminal 
region of SOX9 is responsible for the transactivating ability of the protein. 
The frameshift identified here affects approximately half of the protein region 
needed for full transactivating function. We hypothesize that residual SOX9 
function may explain why this patient survived infancy.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-8628(20010115)98:2<176::aid-ajmg1027>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 11223854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Haematologica. 2001 Feb;86(2):167-73.

Competitive polymerase chain reaction as a method to detect the amplification of 
bcr-abl gene of chronic myeloid leukemia.

Campanini F(1), Santucci MA, Pattachini L, Brusa G, Piccioli M, Barbieri E, 
Babini L, Tura S.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ematologia e Oncologia Medica L.A. Seràgnoli, via Massarenti, 9, 
Ospedale S. Orsola, Università degli Studi di Bologna, 40138 Bologna, Italy. 
campa9@inwind.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The chimeric product of the bcr-abl rearranged gene 
is critical in the pathogenesis of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), yet its role 
in the progression of the disease remains unclear. There is some evidence that 
increased bcr-abl expression levels, possibly due to gene amplification, precede 
the clonal evolution of CML hematopoietic progenitors toward a fully transformed 
phenotype and might be involved in their resistance to interferon-alpha or 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
DESIGN AND METHODS: To quantify the bcr-abl gene both at the genomic and at the 
transcriptional levels we developed a competitive polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) strategy. The competitive PCR technique is based upon the co-amplification 
of the sample template (target) together with increasing amounts of a DNA 
fragment (competitor) sharing with the target the primer recognition sites, but 
differing in size. We constructed a competitor for the quantification of both 
b2a2 and b3a2 alternative splicing forms of the bcr-abl chimera and established 
the accuracy and reproducibility of our competitive strategy in a clone of the 
murine 32DG hematopoietic cell line (32D LG7), which bears a stable integration 
of a single copy of p210 bcr-abl fusion gene. We utilized this technique to 
follow, over a period of 200 days, the fusion gene copy numbers and 
transcription rates in several p210 bcr-abl-transduced 32D cell clones, an 
experimental condition mimicking the evolution of CML myeloid progenitors in 
vivo.
RESULTS: Our results are consistent with p210 bcr-abl overexpression but not 
gene amplification associated with their clonal evolution. Increased p210 
bcr-abl transcription rate is associated with the abrogation of 
radiation-induced apoptotic cell death, suggesting a role for the chimeric gene 
expression level in cell life expectancy after a genotoxic insult.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the assessment of gene 
amplification and expression might serve to improve prognostic classification 
and follow-up of CML patients.

PMID: 11224486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Ann Surg. 2001 Mar;233(3):310-9. doi: 10.1097/00000658-200103000-00003.

Decision analysis for the cost-effective management of recurrent colorectal 
cancer.

Park KC(1), Schwimmer J, Shepherd JE, Phelps ME, Czernin JR, Schiepers C, 
Gambhir SS.

Author information:
(1)Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging, the Department of Molecular & Medical 
Pharmacology, the Division of Nuclear Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine, Los 
Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 2001 Mar;233(3):320-1.
    Ann Surg. 2002 Feb;235(2):308; author reply 310.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the use of [(18)F]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose 
positron emission tomography (FDG PET) in addition to computed axial tomography 
(CT) is helpful in managing recurrent colorectal cancer (CRC).
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: There is no consensus on a management algorithm for 
CRC. However, when recurrence is suspected, CT is generally used for further 
evaluation and staging of disease.
METHODS: The authors used decision trees based on theoretical models to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of a CT + FDG PET strategy for the diagnosis and 
management of recurrent CRC compared with a CT-alone strategy. These theoretical 
models focus on patients with hepatic recurrence who are potentially curable 
through surgical hepatic resection. The population entering the decision trees 
consisted of patients with CRC who had undergone surgical resection of their 
primary CRC and who were suspected of having recurrence based on elevated levels 
of carcinoembryonic antigen.
RESULTS: The CT + FDG PET strategy was found to be cost-effective for managing 
patients with elevated carcinoembryonic antigen levels who were candidates for 
hepatic resection. The CT + FDG PET strategy was higher in mean cost by $429 per 
patient but resulted in an increase in the mean life expectancy of 9.527 days 
per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: These results show, through rigorous decision tree analysis, the 
potential cost-effectiveness of FDG PET in the management of recurrent CRC. The 
decision trees can be used to model various features of the management of 
recurrent CRC, including the cost-effectiveness of other newly emerging 
technologies.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-200103000-00003
PMCID: PMC1421245
PMID: 11224617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Ann Surg. 2001 Mar;233(3):445-52. doi: 10.1097/00000658-200103000-00021.

Impact of increasing comorbidity on infrainguinal reconstruction: a 20-year 
perspective.

Conte MS(1), Belkin M, Upchurch GR, Mannick JA, Whittemore AD, Donaldson MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. mconte@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in patient and procedural variables and outcomes 
associated with autogenous lower extremity arterial reconstruction (LER) in a 
single center during a period of two decades.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Surgical arterial reconstruction is of proven value in 
the therapy of patients with critical ischemia of the lower extremities. 
Changing demographics and increasing comorbidity are resulting in an increasing 
prevalence and associated complexity of peripheral vascular disease. The effect 
of these variables on the types and outcomes of surgical reconstructions is not 
known.
METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective analysis of all autogenous LER 
procedures performed at their institution from 1978 to 1997. Procedures were 
divided into 5-year intervals: group 1, 1978 to 1982; group 2, 1983 to 1987; 
group 3, 1988 to 1992; group 4, 1993 to 1997. Categorical parameters were 
compared using chi-square analysis; rates were computed by the life-table method 
and compared using Mantel-Cox log-rank analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 1,642 autogenous LER procedures were performed in 1,274 
patients. A significant increase in age, female gender, diabetes mellitus, renal 
failure, and prior coronary artery bypass grafting was noted in group 4. 
Increased technical complexity in this group was reflected by a greater 
incidence of tissue necrosis as the indication for LER, the use of ectopic or 
composite vein, and more distal levels of outflow. The surgical death rate 
remained unchanged (2%) throughout. Patient survival, primary and secondary 
graft patency, and limb salvage at 5 years for the entire cohort were 70 +/- 2%, 
63 +/- 2%, 73 +/- 1%, and 85 +/- 1%, respectively. Hospital length of stay was 
reduced 25% from a mean of 15.7 +/- 0.8 days in group 3 to 11.7 +/- 0.4 days in 
group 4.
CONCLUSION: In a tertiary practice setting, patients requiring LER present an 
increasingly complex medical and surgical challenge compared with the previous 
decade. Excellent outcomes may still be achieved by an aggressive approach 
relying on autogenous vein conduit.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-200103000-00021
PMCID: PMC1421261
PMID: 11224635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2001 Mar;16(2):126-35. doi:
10.1097/00001573-200103000-00009.

Are the indications for tissue valves different in 2001 and how do we 
communicate these changes to our cardiology colleagues?

Fann JI(1), Burdon TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University Medical Center, 300 
Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

The indications for tissue valves in the aortic and mitral positions are 
becoming better defined with advances in valve design, valve preservation, and 
management of reoperations. Although some patients who require cardiac valve 
replacement clearly benefit more from one type of valve than from another, not 
infrequently one encounters a patient who is in the "gray zone," where the 
optimal choice is difficult. At present, bioprostheses for the diseased aortic 
valve include stented porcine and pericardial valves, stentless porcine valves, 
aortic homograft, and pulmonary autograft. For patients with mitral valve 
disease, options for tissue valve replacement are a stented porcine or 
pericardial prosthesis. Generally, factors to consider in choosing the 
appropriate valve substitute include the patient's age, expected life 
expectancy, coexisting medical problems, lifestyle, and socioeconomics; the 
etiology of the valve disease, annular size, and physician and patient 
preference are also relevant. Despite the known finite durability of tissue 
valves, which is the main limitation in their use, the long-term results have 
been satisfactory, particularly in older patients, patients with a limited life 
expectancy, and those undergoing valve replacement in the aortic position. 
Distillation of available information and ongoing communication between the 
surgeon and the cardiologist will enable us to assist the patient in choosing 
the best valve substitute.

DOI: 10.1097/00001573-200103000-00009
PMID: 11224645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2001 Mar;17(2):154-161. doi: 
10.1097/00001574-200103000-00010.

Surgery for obesity.

Kral JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn, Brooklyn, New 
York, USA.

As were most types of gastrointestinal surgery, antiobesity surgery was 
dominated by the development of laparoscopic techniques during the last decade. 
The feasibility of performing any primary antiobesity operation safely 
laparoscopically was convincingly demonstrated during the last 2 years. This 
represents a significant continued improvement in the perioperative safety of 
"bariatric" surgery. However, antiobesity surgery entails very much more than 
technique. Unfortunately, little progress has been made in optimizing patient 
selection, improving follow-up, and devising strategies for reoperative 
antiobesity surgery. The latest publications in the field are mainly 
confirmatory, demonstrating durable medically significant weight loss resulting 
in comorbidity reduction with increased life expectancy. The most interesting 
contribution of this surgery is provision of "experimental models" using 
gastrointestinal physiology to study the pathophysiology of obesity and 
undernutrition by guaranteeing substantial weight loss maintained long-term. It 
is unfortunate that surgery for obesity is seriously underutilized.

DOI: 10.1097/00001574-200103000-00010
PMID: 11224672


658. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001 Feb;33(2):220-6. doi: 
10.1097/00005768-200102000-00008.

Muscle function in 164 men and women aged 20--84 yr.

Akima H(1), Kano Y, Enomoto Y, Ishizu M, Okada M, Oishi Y, Katsuta S, Kuno S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. 
akima@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of aging 
in men and women on muscle functional properties, i.e., muscle force and force 
per unit of cross-sectional area (force/CSA).
METHODS: A total of 164 volunteers participated in this study and were divided 
into five groups according to their chronological age as follows: 20s (20--39 yr 
old), 40s, 50s, 60s, and 70s (70--84 yr old). Isokinetic (0, 60, 180, and 300 
degrees.s(-1)) knee extensor and flexor peak torque, and CSA of the quadriceps 
femoris (QF) muscle of the mid-thigh were measured.
RESULTS: Peak torque during knee extension and flexion was inversely related to 
age in both men and women. This was the case irrespective of the speed of 
contraction in both genders (men: r = -0.797 to -0.756, all P < 0.001, women: r 
= -0.639 to -0.530, all P < 0.001). A significant correlation was observed 
between CSA of QF and peak torque during isometric knee extension in men (r = 
0.827, P < 0.001) and women (r = 0.657, P < 0.001). During isometric 
contraction, the force/CSA exhibited a significant decrease with increasing age 
in men (r = -0.518, P < 0.001) but not in women (r = -0.207, NS).
CONCLUSION: These results thus suggest that muscle strength losses would be 
mainly due to a decline in muscle mass in both genders, whereas age-related 
decline in muscle function in men may also be the result of neural factors, such 
as muscle recruitment and/or specific tension.

DOI: 10.1097/00005768-200102000-00008
PMID: 11224809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Cancer Treat Res. 2001;105:327-73. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-1589-0_13.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Ho L(1), Sugarbaker DJ, Skarin AT.

Author information:
(1)M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Malignant pleural mesothelioma remains a difficult tumor to treat, much less 
cure. Currently, the best chance for long-term survival lies with early 
diagnosis and aggressive surgical extirpation, but given the typically long 
delay between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis, this is only possible with a 
high index of suspicion and an aggressive diagnosis workup. Early referral to a 
tertiary center experienced in the treatment of MPM may be important for several 
reasons: (1) decreased risk of tumor spread along multiple thoracenesis/biopsy 
tracts, (2) the availability of specialized pathologic assays for definitive 
diagnosis, (3) the availability of critical staging modalities (aggressive 
mediastinoscopy +/- thoracoscopy, MRI scans performed according to specific 
mesothelioma protocols, and perhaps PET scans), (4) surgical experience with 
pleurectomy/decortication and/or extrapleural pneumonectomy, that may decrease 
morbidity and mortality, and (5) the availability of novel adjuvant protocols. 
Single-modality therapy is unlikely to result in long-term survival. Aggressive 
surgery is required for optimal debulking, and extrapleural pneumonectomy may 
offer better local control compared with pleurectomy/ecortication. Delivery of 
optimal radiation schedules, which may involve large fractions as well as large 
total doses, is limited by the presence of nearby dose-limiting structures. 
Current chemotherapy is severely lacking in producing objective responses and 
improved survival although gemcitabine and IL-2 may be active agents to be 
combined with radiation and/or other agents. Hyperthermia, photodynamic therapy, 
intracavitary therapy, and gene therapy are all relatively new techniques under 
active investigation that should be supported by enrollment in on-going 
protocols. Predictably, many of these techniques provide greater benefit when 
used in the setting of adjuvant protocols or minimal residual disease, 
emphasizing the importance of multimodality therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-1589-0_13
PMID: 11224994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Klin Padiatr. 2001 Jan-Feb;213(1):8-12. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-11265.

[Bardet-Biedl syndrome: aspects of nephro-urology and human genetics].

[Article in German]

Brühl P(1), Schwanitz G, Mallmann R, Müller SC, Raff R.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik u. Poliklinik, Universität Bonn.

Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive complex 
of features in which five gene loci have been described up to now. The diagnosis 
of this rare syndrome is based on the main manifestations hypogonadism, 
age-dependent increasing obesity and reduction of renal function, age-dependent 
progressive retinal degeneration with blindness as well as postaxial polydactyly 
and mental retardation. The life expectancy is short. Problems of early 
diagnostics, secondary hyperparathyroidism as well as surgical reconstruction of 
the genitals and kidney replacement therapy are discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-11265
PMID: 11225476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Diabetes Obes Metab. 1999 Sep;1(5):293-6. doi:
10.1046/j.1463-1326.1999.00048.x.

Unfavourable impact of growth hormone (GH) discontinuation on body composition 
and cholesterol profiles after the completion of height growth in GH-deficient 
young adults.

Kohno H(1), Ueyama N, Honda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Fukuoka Children's Hospital, 
Japan. fwka3415@mb.infoweb.ne.jp

AIM: Growth hormone (GH) plays an important role in the regulation of body 
composition and metabolism. GH deficiency is associated with obesity and 
hypercholesterolemia, which respond to GH treatment. In this study we evaluated 
changes in body composition and cholesterol profiles after discontinuation of GH 
therapy to assess atherogenic risk factors in GH-deficient patients.
METHODS: We studied 18 male patients with GH deficiency 17-20 years of age at 
the time of discontinuing GH therapy. Body composition and cholesterol were 
measured 6 months before discontinuation of GH therapy with a weekly dose of 0.5 
IU/kg (approximately 0.19 mg/kg), and immediately, 2 months, and 6 months after 
the end of GH therapy.
RESULTS: Two months after termination of GH therapy the percentage of body fat 
and fat mass increased from 7.4% to 9.4% and from 3.8 kg to 5.0 kg, 
respectively, and remained high thereafter. Lean body mass decreased gradually, 
but the change was not significant. Lean body mass: fat mass ratio decreased 
from 14.7 at termination of GH therapy to 10.9 at the end of study. Total 
cholesterol (TC) showed a significant linear increase from 156 mg/dl immediately 
after discontinuation to 169 mg/dl 6 months after discontinuation of GH, whereas 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLC) showed no change during the study. 
The TC to HDLC ratio showed a slight but insignificant trend toward an increase. 
There were no significant changes in any variables during the last 6 months of 
GH therapy.
CONCLUSION: GH therapy in patients with GH deficiency can reduce risk factors 
for obesity-related diseases and atherosclerosis. These beneficial effects are 
reversed after discontinuation of GH therapy. Further long-term studies of the 
effects of the GH withdrawal on lipid profiles, adiposity and life expectancy 
must be performed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1463-1326.1999.00048.x
PMID: 11225641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Feb 27;98(5):2688-93. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.041624998.

Chronic elevation of plasma thioredoxin: inhibition of chemotaxis and 
curtailment of life expectancy in AIDS.

Nakamura H(1), De Rosa SC, Yodoi J, Holmgren A, Ghezzi P, Herzenberg LA, 
Herzenberg LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University Medical School, Stanford, CA 
94305-5318, USA.

Thioredoxin (Trx) is an intracellular redox protein with extracellular 
cytokine-like and chemokine-like activities. We show here that, although plasma 
Trx levels are unrelated to survival of HIV-infected individuals with CD4 cell 
counts above 200/microl blood, survival is significantly impaired (P = 0.003) 
when plasma Trx is chronically elevated in HIV-infected subjects with CD4 T cell 
counts below this level (i.e., with Centers for Disease Control (CDC)-defined 
AIDS). Relevant to the mechanism potentially underlying this finding, we also 
present data from experimental studies in mice showing that elevated plasma Trx 
efficiently blocks lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chemotaxis, an innate immune 
mechanism that is particularly crucial when adaptive immunity is compromised. 
Thus, we propose that elevated plasma Trx in HIV-infected individuals with low 
CD4 T cell counts directly impairs survival by blocking pathogen-induced 
chemotaxis, effectively eliminating the last (innate) barrier against 
establishment of opportunistic and other infections in these immunodeficient 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.041624998
PMCID: PMC30199
PMID: 11226300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Feb 27;98(5):2934-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.041431898.  Epub 2001 Feb 20.

Lifespan depends on month of birth.

Doblhammer G(1), Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Doberanerstrasse 114, 18057 
Rostock, Germany. doblhammer@demogr.mpg.de

Month of birth influences adult life expectancy at ages 50+. Why? In two 
countries of the Northern Hemisphere-Austria and Denmark-people born in autumn 
(October-December) live longer than those born in spring (April-June). Data for 
Australia show that, in the Southern Hemisphere, the pattern is shifted by half 
a year. The lifespan pattern of British immigrants to Australia is similar to 
that of Austrians and Danes and significantly different from that of 
Australians. These findings are based on population data with more than a 
million observations and little or no selectivity. The differences in lifespan 
are independent of the seasonal distribution of deaths and the social 
differences in the seasonal distribution of births. In the Northern Hemisphere, 
the excess mortality in the first year of life of infants born in spring does 
not support the explanation of selective infant survival. Instead, remaining 
life expectancy at age 50 appears to depend on factors that arise in utero or 
early in infancy and that increase susceptibility to diseases later in life. 
This result is consistent with the finding that, at the turn of the last 
century, infants born in autumn had higher birth weights than those born in 
other seasons. Furthermore, differences in adult lifespan by month of birth 
decrease over time and are significantly smaller in more recent cohorts, which 
benefited from substantial improvements in maternal and infant health.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.041431898
PMCID: PMC30243
PMID: 11226344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2001 Feb 7;48(18):1-40.

United States life tables, 1998.

Anderson RN(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, 6525 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782-2003, USA.

The life tables in this report are current life tables for the United States 
based on age-specific death rates in 1998. Data used to prepare these life 
tables are 1998 final mortality statistics; July 1, 1998, population estimates; 
and data from the Medicare program. Presented are complete life tables by age, 
race, and sex. In 1998 the overall expectation of life at birth was 76.7 years, 
an increase of 0.2 years compared with life expectancy in 1997. Life expectancy 
increased from 1997 to 1998 for each of the four race-sex groups for which life 
expectancy is reported. Life expectancy increased for black males by 0.4 year 
(from 67.2 to 67.6), for black females by 0.1 year (from 74.7 to 74.8), for 
white males by 0.2 year (from 74.3 to 74.5), and for white females by 0.1 year 
(from 79.9 to 80.0).

PMID: 11227258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Demography. 2001 Feb;38(1):97-114. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0002.

New African American life tables from 1935-1940 to 1985-1990.

Elo IT(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. popelo@pop.upenn.edu

New life tables for African Americans are presented from 1935 through 1990. They 
are based on a historical series of vital statistics data on deaths that have 
been corrected for age misreporting, on reconstructed population counts that 
have been adjusted for census underenumeration, and on births that have been 
corrected for underregistration. The new life tables show rapid mortality 
declines for both African American males and females from 1935 to 1950, and 
relatively steady reductions thereafter for females. The smaller declines in 
male mortality in young adulthood and middle age since the 1950s have led to 
exceptionally high ratios of male to female mortality at these ages. Corrections 
for census undercounts lead to higher values of life expectancy than in official 
life tables, but to less improvement over time. Official estimates of life 
expectancy at age 65 appear to be about 10% too high around 1940 but only about 
1.5% too high in the late 1980s.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0002
PMID: 11227848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2001 Feb;184(3):489-96. doi: 10.1067/mob.2001.109735.

Life-table analysis of the risk of perinatal death at term and post term in 
singleton pregnancies.

Smith GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Pregnancy and Newborn Research, Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to estimate the cumulative risk of 
perinatal death associated with delivery at each gestational week both at term 
and post term.
STUDY DESIGN: The numbers of antepartum stillbirths, intrapartum stillbirths, 
neonatal deaths, and surviving neonates delivered at between 37 and 43 weeks' 
gestation in Scotland, 1985-1996, were obtained from national databases (n = 
700,878) after exclusion of multiple pregnancies and deaths caused by congenital 
abnormality. The numbers of deaths at each gestational week were related to 
appropriate denominators: antepartum stillbirths were related to ongoing 
pregnancies, intrapartum stillbirths were related to all births (excluding 
antepartum stillbirths), and neonatal deaths were related to live births. The 
cumulative probability of perinatal death associated with delivery at each 
gestational week was estimated by means of life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The gestational week of delivery associated with the lowest cumulative 
risk of perinatal death was 38 weeks' gestation, whereas the perinatal mortality 
rate was lowest at 41 weeks' gestation. The risk of death increased more sharply 
among primigravid women after 38 weeks' gestation because of a greater risk of 
antepartum stillbirth. The relationships between risk of death and gestational 
age were similar for the periods 1985-1990 and 1991-1996.
CONCLUSION: Delivery at 38 weeks' gestation was associated with the lowest risk 
of perinatal death.

DOI: 10.1067/mob.2001.109735
PMID: 11228508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Bull Entomol Res. 2001 Feb;91(1):47-52.

Effect of temperature and cultivar on pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Hemiptera: 
Aphididae) life history.

Morgan D(1), Walters KF, Aegerter JN.

Author information:
(1)Central Science Laboratory, Sand Hutton, York, YO41 1LZ, UK. 
D.Morgan@csl.gov.uk

Life history parameters of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum were studied at 
five constant temperatures on two cultivars of peas, Scout and Sancho. The 
development and mortality of juveniles and the life-span, age-specific fecundity 
and survivorship of adult aphids were recorded and used to construct life 
tables. The juvenile development period (from birth to adulthood) was longest at 
11.9 degrees C (16.8 days on cv. Scout and 16.2 days on cv. Sancho) and shortest 
at 26.7 degrees C (8.5 days on cv. Scout and 8.8 days on cv. Sancho). At all 
temperatures, except 26.7 degrees C, juveniles developed faster on cv. Sancho 
than on cv. Scout. On both pea varieties juvenile mortality was highest at 
temperatures above 19.6 degrees C and lowest at 19.6 degrees C. Highest 
cumulative juvenile mortality was recorded on cv. Scout at 26.7 degrees C when 
only 9% of aphids survived from birth to reproductively mature adults. Fecundity 
rates were unaffected by temperature in the range tested on cv. Sancho but 
increased with increasing temperatures between 11.9 and 19.6 degrees C on cv. 
Scout. These differences in life history parameters were reflected in the 
population growth (rm) of aphids on both pea cultivars which increased with 
increasing temperatures between 11.9 and 23.1 degrees C on cv. Sancho and 11.9 
and 19.6 degrees C on cv. Scout, declining thereafter. Population growth was 
consistently greater at all temperatures for aphids reared on cv. Sancho than 
those reared on cv. Scout.

PMID: 11228587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Clin Infect Dis. 2001 Mar 1;32(5):783-93. doi: 10.1086/319223. Epub 2001 Feb
28.

Preevaluation of clinical trial data: the case of preemptive cytomegalovirus 
therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus.

Paltiel AD(1), Goldie SJ, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Seage GR 3rd, Kimmel AD, Zhang 
H, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
CT 06520-8034, USA. david.paltiel@yale.edu

We developed a mathematical simulation model to anticipate outcomes from an 
upcoming trial of targeted, preemptive cytomegalovirus (CMV) therapy in 
high-risk, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients identified by 
means of CMV polymerase chain reaction screening. We estimated the costs and 
consequences of CMV prophylaxis in patients with CD4(+) counts < or =100 
cells/microL under various assumptions regarding disease progression, 
complication rates, drug effects, and costs. Without CMV preemptive therapy, 
lifetime costs average $44,600 with expected duration of survival of 19.16 
quality-adjusted life-months and 213 CMV cases per 1000 patients. Targeted 
preemptive therapy with orally administered valganciclovir increases costs and 
duration of survival to $46,900 and 19.63 quality-adjusted life-months, 
respectively. CMV cases decrease to 174 per 1000 patients. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained is $59,000. This result compares favorably 
with other strategies in end-stage HIV disease but hinges on valganciclovir cost 
and efficacy assumptions and the absence of minimally effective salvage 
antiretroviral therapy for HIV. The upcoming trial should resolve the clinical 
uncertainty surrounding some of these assumptions.

DOI: 10.1086/319223
PMID: 11229847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Mar 1;19(5):1320-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.5.1320.

Phase II trial of paclitaxel and carboplatin in metastatic small-cell lung 
cancer: a Groupe Français de Pneumo-Cancérologie study.

Thomas P(1), Castelnau O, Paillotin D, Léna H, Robinet G, Muir JF, Delaval P, 
Gouva S, Balmes P, Blanchon F, Perdu D, Poirier R, Pommier De Santi P, 
Penot-Ragon C, Kleisbauer JP.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Oncologie Respiratoire and Pharmacie, Hôpital Sainte-Marguerite, 
Marseille, France. pnthomas@ap-hm.fr

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel and carboplatin in 
the treatment of previously untreated patients with metastatic small-cell lung 
cancer (SCLC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eligible patients were aged 18 to 75 years with an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) score < or = 2 and life expectancy > or = 12 
weeks. Paclitaxel (200 mg/m(2)) was infused over 3 hours, before carboplatin 
(area under the curve [AUC] 6; Calvert formula) infused over 1 hour, once every 
3 weeks for six cycles maximum. Prednisolone, dexchlorpheniramine, and 
ranitidine were standard premedication. Response to treatment was assessed every 
two cycles, and nonresponding patients were withdrawn from the trial to receive 
standard chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Of the 50 patients entering the study, 48 and 46 patients were 
assessable for toxicity and response, respectively. The overall response rate 
was 65%, with complete responses in three patients. Five patients had stable 
disease (11%) and 11 patients experienced progressive disease (24%). Median 
survival was 38 weeks, and median duration of response was 20 weeks. One-year 
survival was 22.5%. For a total of 232 cycles, grade 3 and 4 toxicity was 33% 
for neutropenia, 3.5% for thrombocytopenia, and 4% for anemia. Four patients had 
neutropenic fever (one toxic death). Nonhematologic toxicity was mainly grade 1 
and 2 paresthesia (21% of patients); grade 3 myalgia/arthralgia was observed in 
6.5% of patients.
CONCLUSION: First-line chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin in 
metastatic SCLC achieved a response rate and survival similar to standard 
regimens. With 1-day administration and a tolerable toxicity profile, this 
combination merits further investigation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.5.1320
PMID: 11230474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nat Biotechnol. 2001 Mar;19(3):195. doi: 10.1038/85611.

Genomics and human life span-what's left to extend?

Strohman RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, 229 Stanley Hall #3206, Berkeley, 
CA 94720-3206, USA. strohman@uclink4.berkeley.edu

Erratum in
    Nat Biotechnol 2001 Jun;19(6):508.

DOI: 10.1038/85611
PMID: 11231538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Mar 12;161(5):745-8. doi: 10.1001/archinte.161.5.745.

The adequacy of informed consent for placement of gastrostomy tubes.

Brett AS(1), Rosenberg JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, 2 
Medical Park, Suite 502, Columbia, SC 29203, USA. allansb@medpark.sc.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2001 Oct 22;161(19):2385-6.
    Arch Intern Med. 2001 Nov 12;161(20):2506-7.

BACKGROUND: Gastrostomy tubes are placed commonly in patients with limited life 
expectancy. However, it is unclear whether the process of informed consent is 
adequate in these patients. This study examined the quality of informed consent 
in hospitalized patients undergoing placement of gastrostomy tubes.
METHODS: Retrospective review of the medical records of a cohort of 154 
consecutive hospitalized adults undergoing placement of gastrostomy tubes in the 
context of chronic progressive illness, in the setting of a large 
community-teaching hospital.
RESULTS: The medical record documented a procedure-specific discussion of 
benefits and burdens of and alternatives to tube feeding in only 1 of 154 
patients. Only 12 of 33 definitely or probably competent patients signed the 
hospital consent form; in the remaining 21, a surrogate decision-maker signed 
the form. The cumulative 1-year mortality for this cohort was 50%.
CONCLUSIONS: The quality of informed consent for placement of gastrostomy tubes 
was inadequate in a large community-teaching hospital. Indirect evidence from 
the literature suggests that these results are not unique to this institution. 
Physicians should become more familiar with the medical and ethical issues 
relevant to medically administered nutrition near the end of life, and 
institutions should develop procedures to improve the quality of decision-making 
for patients considering this intervention.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.5.745
PMID: 11231709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 2000;(232):60-4.

Surgical treatment of morbid obesity: role of the gastroenterologist.

Greve JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, University Hospital Maastricht, P. O. Box 5800, 6202 AZ 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. jgre@shee.azm.nl

AIM: Obesity is an increasing medical problem with associated disorders such as 
type 2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disorders and many others. The chance 
to develop co-morbidity is related to the body mass index (BMI) (weight in kg 
divided by height in metres2) and increases exponentially when the BMI is above 
40 (morbid obesity). Permanently effective treatment of morbid obesity is 
necessary to prevent the development of co-morbidities and to improve the life 
