expectancy of these patients. To date, surgical intervention is the only 
treatment that can provide the required long-lasting reduction of the excess 
weight.
DISCUSSION: Two types of surgical intervention are currently used, restrictive 
(including vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) and adjustable gastric banding) 
and malabsorptive procedures (gastric bypass, biliopancreatic diversion (BPD)). 
These interventions effectively reduce weight, with on average a permanent 
reduction of the excess weight by 60% after gastric restrictive procedures. 
However, long-term follow-up has shown that up to 30-40% of patients require 
additional surgical interventions to maintain the acquired weight loss. 
Long-term failures are dependent on the primary intervention. After VBG the most 
common problems are occlusion of the outlet by a foreign body, vertical staple 
line disruption, band stenosis and band erosion. For the adjustable silicone 
gastric band outlet problems similar to the VBG, band erosion and particularly 
pouch dilation or slippage have been reported. Failure of the gastric bypass are 
mainly due to stenosis of the gastro-jejunostomy and stoma ulcers, whereas BPD 
mainly has metabolic long-term complications.
CONCLUSION: The gastroenterologist has an important role in the diagnosis (stoma 
stenosis, band erosion, staple line disruption, foreign body) and treatment 
(dilatation, removal of foreign body) of the complications associated with 
surgical procedures for morbid obesity. In light of the increasing number of 
procedures performed, a basic knowledge of the currently used techniques and the 
associated complications is important.

PMID: 11232494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Am J Gastroenterol. 2001 Feb;96(2):315-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03512.x.

Clinicopathological features of superficial spreading and nonspreading squamous 
cell carcinoma of the esophagus.

Yuasa N(1), Miyachi M, Yasui A, Hayakawa N, Hattori T, Yoneyama F, Hirabayashi 
N, Nimura Y.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Superficially spreading carcinoma of the esophagus, consisting 
mainly of intraepithelial carcinoma, is not as rare as was previously thought. 
Despite the surgical significance of this entity, no general definition has been 
established, and the clinical features of this disease remain to be clarified.
METHODS: A total of 54 patients with superficial carcinoma of the esophagus 
(defined as carcinoma limited to the epithelium or superficially invading the 
lamina propria or submucosa) were classified into two groups according to the 
longitudinal extent of the lesion. A total of 13 patients with superficially 
spreading carcinoma (defined as a superficial carcinoma measuring >5 cm and 
consisting mainly of intraepithelial carcinoma) were compared to 41 patients 
with nonspreading esophageal carcinoma.
RESULTS: One patient with superficially spreading carcinoma had a positive 
resection margin because of multiple cancerous lesions. The only significant 
difference in the clinical and pathological features of the two groups was a 
higher prevalence of associated multiple cancerous lesions in patients with the 
superficially spreading type.
CONCLUSIONS: Superficially spreading carcinoma of the esophagus is often 
associated with multiple cancerous lesions. For endoscopists and esophageal 
surgeons, it is important to define the proximal extent of intraepithelial 
cancer and the presence of multiple cancerous lesions to perform curative 
resection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03512.x
PMID: 11232669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Am J Gastroenterol. 2001 Feb;96(2):338-47. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03516.x.

Quality of life measurement clarifies the cost-effectiveness of Helicobacter 
pylori eradication in peptic ulcer disease and uninvestigated dyspepsia.

Groeneveld PW(1), Lieu TA, Fendrick AM, Hurley LB, Ackerson LM, Levin TR, 
Allison JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center and University of California, 
San Francisco, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Previous economic studies of Helicobacter pylori eradication in 
dyspepsia and peptic ulcer disease have not measured quality of life using 
utilities (preference probabilities), which are needed to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of such treatment to other health care interventions. The 
goals of this study were to measure quality of life in patients with dyspepsia 
or peptic ulcer and apply these measurements to published models of disease 
management to determine cost-effectiveness in dollars per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: Utilities for dyspepsia and peptic ulcer disease were measured in adult 
patients (n = 73) on chronic acid suppression for peptic ulcer or ulcer-like 
dyspepsia. Median utility values were applied to the results of published 
cost-effectiveness analyses and a previously validated dyspepsia model. 
Cost-utility ratios for early H. pylori eradication in uninvestigated dyspepsia 
and peptic ulcer disease were then computed.
RESULTS: The total disutility, or lost quality of life, for an ulcer was 0.11 
QALY, of which 0.09 QALY was attributed to dyspeptic symptoms. After these 
results were incorporated into published studies, cost-utility ratios for ulcer 
treatment varied from $3,100 to $12,500 per QALY gained, whereas estimates for 
uninvestigated dyspepsia management ranged from $26,800 to $59,400 per QALY. 
Sensitivity analyses indicated a range of $1,300 to $27,300 per QALY for 
management of duodenal ulcer and $15,000 to $129,700 per QALY for dyspepsia.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies that emphasize early H. pylori eradication were 
cost-effective for patients with peptic ulcer and possibly cost-effective for 
patients with uninvestigated dyspepsia, relative to other medical interventions. 
Dyspeptic symptoms cause significant disutility that should be incorporated in 
future cost-effectiveness analyses of treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03516.x
PMID: 11232673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Am J Gastroenterol. 2001 Feb;96(2):579-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03537.x.

Assessment of utilities and health-related quality of life in patients with 
chronic liver disease.

Younossi ZM(1), Boparai N, McCormick M, Price LL, Guyatt G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Quantitative measures of the value patients place on the state of 
their health is crucial to understanding their experience, and to calculate 
quality-adjusted years of life for economic analyses. Patients' values in 
chronic liver disease remain unexplored, although experts' estimates of 
utilities have been examined. Our study tests the validity of a widely used 
utility measure in chronic liver disease and, if valid, establishes the 
decrement in health-related quality associated with chronic liver disease.
METHODS: A total of 120 patients with chronic liver disease participated in the 
study (age 50 +/- 10 yr; men 53%; cirrhosis 51%, chronic viral hepatitis 51%, 
and chronic cholestatic liver disease 30%). All patients completed three 
instruments: Health Utility Index Mark 2 (scores 0-1), Short Form-36 (scale 
scores 0-100), and a disease-specific health-related quality of life instrument 
(Chronic Liver Disease Questionnaire; scores 1-7).
RESULTS: We found a moderate to strong correlation between scores on the three 
measures and that impairment worsened as the severity of disease worsened. 
Patients without cirrhosis and those with Child's A cirrhosis showed substantial 
decrement in utilities (0.82 and 0.83, respectively) in the range of patients 
surviving brain tumor. Those with Child's B and C showed a greater decrement 
(0.67 and 0.56) that was in the range experienced by patients who survive a 
stroke (0.67). Utilities assessed by Health Utility Index Mark 2 differed 
substantially from estimates by "expert."
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that utilities should be based on patient reports and 
that the data from this study can inform economic analyses in studies of 
patients with chronic liver disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2001.03537.x
PMID: 11232711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Drugs Aging. 2001;18(1):31-44. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200118010-00003.

Management of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the elderly: special considerations.

Rosenstock J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dallas Diabetes and Endocrine Center, Medical City Dallas, Texas 75230, USA. 
juliorosenstock@dallasdiabetes.com

The principles of managing type 2 diabetes mellitus in the elderly are no 
different from those in younger patients, but the priorities and therapeutic 
strategies need to be cautiously individualised. The objectives of treatment are 
to improve glycaemic control in a stepwise approach that involves 
nonpharmacological methods including diet and exercise, and pharmacological 
therapy including mixtures of oral antihyperglycaemic agents alone or in 
combination with insulin. Although the goals of treatment may be the same for 
elderly and younger patients, certain aspects of type 2 diabetes in the elderly 
require special consideration. Treatment decisions are influenced by age and 
life expectancy, comorbid conditions and severity of the vascular complications. 
Adherence to dietary therapy, physical activity, and medication regimens may be 
compromised by comorbid conditions and psychosocial limitations. Drug-induced 
hypoglycaemia has been the main consideration and the most serious potential 
complication. In addition, the long term macrovascular and microvascular 
complications of type 2 diabetes are a source of significant morbidity and 
mortality. Indeed, vascular and neuropathic complications are already present at 
the time of diagnosis in a significant number of patients, and the impact of 
improved diabetes control depends on the age and life expectancy of the patient. 
Age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and the potential for adverse effects 
and drug interactions should also be considered when choosing appropriate 
pharmacological therapy. In general, a conservative and stepwise approach to the 
treatment of the elderly patient with type 2 diabetes is suggested; treatment 
may be initiated with monotherapy, followed by early intervention with a 
combination of oral agents including a sulphonylurea as a foundation insulin 
secretagogue in addition to a supplemental insulin sensitiser. Insulin therapy 
is eventually required if significant hyperglycaemia [glycosylated haemoglobin 
(HbA1c) >8%] persists despite oral combination therapy. Combination therapy with 
evening insulin and a long-acting sulphonylurea such as glimepiride is an 
effective strategy to improve hyperglycaemia in the elderly patient with type 2 
diabetes in whom polypharmacy with oral agents is unsuccessful. In addition, 
such a regimen is simple to follow for the patient who may not be able to adhere 
to a more complicated insulin regimen. Hyperglycaemia in the elderly can be 
managed well with practical intervention and a straightforward treatment plan to 
enhance compliance. Optimal glycaemic control should be possible for every 
patient if treatment is individualised; however, strict glycaemic control may 
not be achievable in all patients or even desirable in many elderly patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200118010-00003
PMID: 11232737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Ann Oncol. 2000 Nov;11(11):1365-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a010396.

How good is the Dutch health-care system?

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a010396
PMID: 11233044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Jpn J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Jan;49(1):47-52. doi: 10.1007/BF02913123.

Cardio-aortic operation in octogenarians.

Ohashi M(1), Fukunaga S, Kawano H, Tayama E, Kashikie H, Akashi H, Kawara T, 
Ohryoji A, Aoyagi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kurume University School of Medicine, 67 Asahi-machi, 
Kurume City, Fukuoka 830-0011, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Aging of the population is a current phenomenon in Japan, and life 
expectancy at 80 years old is getting longer. So we reviewed cardio-aortic 
operations on octogenarians at our institution.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Thirty-three consecutive octogenarian patients who had 
undergone cardio-aortic operations from 1992 to 1998 were studied. There were 14 
men and 19 women. The mean age was 81.9 years. Of the 33, 19 patients (58%) were 
in New York Heart Association class IV, and 21 patients (64%) were operated on 
urgently or in emergency. The procedures undergone were operation for coronary 
artery disease in 17 patients, operation for valvular disease in 7 patients, 
operation for thoracic-aorta in 7 patients, and others in 2 patients.
RESULTS: The hospital mortality rate was 27% (9 patients). However, 89% of 
patients experiencing hospital death were in New York Heart Association class IV 
preoperatively and had required an emergency/urgent operation. On the other 
hand, there was only one hospital death (1/12, 8.3%) among the elective 
patients. The statistically significant risk factors for hospital death were 
renal insufficiency, shock, New York Heart Association class IV, intra-aortic 
balloon pumping, and longer cardiopulmonary bypass time. The one-, three-, and 
five-year-survival rate was 73%, 68%, and 55%, respectively. Of the survivors, 
77% were in class I or II.
CONCLUSION: Although octogenarians' hospital mortality was still very high, the 
mid-term results were acceptable and the survivors' quality of life was 
satisfactory. These data suggested that we should operate on cardio-aortic 
patients before they reach a very serious state, especially in octogenarians.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02913123
PMID: 11233242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Ear Nose Throat J. 2001 Feb;80(2):106, 109-12.

Second malignant neoplasms of the head and neck in survivors of retinoblastoma.

Wenzel CT(1), Halperin EC, Fisher SR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, N.C., USA.

Retinoblastoma is a malignant tumor of the embryonic retina. Although it is 
rare, it is the most common primary eye tumor of childhood. Life expectancy 
following treatment is now excellent, but survivors who have heritable 
retinoblastoma face an increased risk of a second malignant head or neck 
neoplasm. A second neoplasm, which often occurs in the irradiated field of the 
original tumor, has become the most significant threat to the survival of these 
patients. We report the case of a young girl who was cured of her retinoblastoma 
only to later develop a second nonocular tumor that metastasized to the 
superficial parotid gland. She underwent a superficial parotidectomy and neck 
dissection, but the malignancy eventually recurred and required further surgery 
and radiation therapy. In this article, we discuss the etiology, incidence, 
sites of occurrence, and management options for a second malignant neoplasm in 
retinoblastoma survivors. The head and neck surgeon must be vigilant in the 
diagnosis and management of second neoplasms in this patient population because 
they often occur in irradiated fields; surgical management is important to 
patient survival.

PMID: 11233341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Ark Med Soc. 2001 Mar;97(9):315-8.

Older female inpatients in Arkansas.

Johnson M(1), Duncan L, Rothenberger A, Thomas J.

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas, Little Rock, USA.

The purpose of this study was to examine age and Major Diagnostic Categories 
(MDCs) and compare the variables to mortality and length of stay among inpatient 
women age 50 and over. Archival statistical data were obtained for 2,238 
inpatients in a private, nonprofit hospital in 1998. The ages ranged from 50 to 
107 years old, with a mean age of 71.21 years. Quantitative analyses were 
conducted to examine the data from a private, nonprofit hospital and determine 
if there were significant relationships between age, major diagnostic category, 
length of stay, and mortality in older women. The MDC distribution indicated 
that the highest frequency of diseases and disorders were in the following three 
systems: circulatory system, musculoskeletal system and connective tissue, and 
the digestive system. The average length of stay was 8.01 days. The 30-day 
readmission percentage and the 365-day readmission percentage were 12.24% and 
28.02%, respectively. The mortality rate was 6%. In addition, 63.97% went home 
after discharge, and 67.07% were Medicare recipients. The risk of 
musculoskeletal diseases and disorders increased with age (p = .0001). The 
conditional probability of death was nearly nine times higher for the diseases 
of the nervous system, myeloproliferative diseases and disorders, poorly 
differentiated neoplasms and respiratory diseases. As age increased, the 
probabilities of a long hospital stay decreased. The mortality analyses found 
that the lowest probabilities of survival were in categories of 
myeloproliferative diseases and disorders, poorly differentiated neoplasms, and 
infectious and parasitic diseases. According to current health statistics, our 
society is getting older. Not only are people living longer, they are accessing 
more health care (American Association for World Health, 1999). Overall, the 
average life expectancy at birth has been identified at 76.5 years. The female 
has a longer life expectancy than the male, averaging 5.8 years longer. The 
highest life expectancy has been identified in the white female, who can expect 
to live to 79. The black woman has the second-highest life expectancy, 74.7 
years. Peters, Kochanek, and Murphy reported an all-time-low age-adjusted death 
rate for the United States and a continuing trend in the decline in mortality 
for all age groups. With a growing number of people living longer, there is a 
need to know about the most common health issues that affect quality of life. 
The top three national causes of death in older Americans were diseases of the 
heart, malignant neoplasms, and cerebrovascular diseases/stroke. Arkansas health 
statistics mirror the national statistics. In April 1999, the Arkansas 
Department of Health reported that 30.5% percent of all female deaths were 
caused by heart disease. Malignant neoplasms were responsible for 20.1%, 
followed by cerebrovascular diseases at 10.8%. Other than three Connecticut 
hospital studies that explored the relationship of diagnosis code, mortality, 
and readmission, research is meager in this area. There is a need for 
hospital-based research that addresses the diagnosis categories and the 
relationship to age and other variables.

PMID: 11233503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Med Lav. 2000 Nov-Dec;91(6):515-30.

[Health promotion in the occupational setting: what are the prospects in the 
Italian situation?].

[Article in Italian]

Abbritti G(1), Muzi G, Latini L, Abbritti EP, Dell'Omo M, Vinci F, Castellino N.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina del Lavoro e Tossicologia Professionale e Ambientale, 
Università di Perugia.

Over the past decades advances in sciences and medicine have improved living and 
health conditions and lengthened life expectancy. These benefits are associated 
with an increase in prevalence of chronic degenerative diseases. With their 
multi-factorial aetiology these diseases are influenced by life styles and 
personal habits and require prolonged medical care and high social costs. Now 
days health is no longer considered as the absence of disease but a state of 
mental, physical and social well-being. The World Health Organization has 
defined health promotion as "the process of enabling people to increase control 
over and to improve health". Since the 70s in the USA many health promotion 
programmes have been proposed, especially by large corporations, in order to 
ensure a more efficient, productive and motivated work-force, to reduce health 
insurance costs and to provide a better company image. Workplaces,--particularly 
when the working population is relatively stable--are excellent areas for health 
promotion programmes because workers can be monitored over a long period of 
time. The most successful programmes are aimed at modifying behaviour in risk 
patterns (smoking, alcohol abuse, eating disorders, etc.) through information, 
active participation, screening, follow-up, personalized programmes, changes in 
the working environment, physical exercise programmes. These health promotion 
programmes are extremely hard to develop for Italian workers. Most firms are 
small or very small and much still remains to be done to eliminate well-known 
occupational risk factors. The current flexibility of modern work patterns could 
constitute a further obstacle.

PMID: 11233573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Science. 2001 Feb 23;291(5508):1491-2. doi: 10.1126/science.291.5508.1491.

Demography. Prospects for human longevity.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA, Désesquelles A.

Collaborators: Carnes BA(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago and Center on 
Aging, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. sjayo@uic.edu
(2)U Chicago, IL

Comment in
    Science. 2001 Jun 1;292(5522):1654-5.

DOI: 10.1126/science.291.5508.1491
PMID: 11234076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Eff Clin Pract. 2001 Jan-Feb;4(1):1-9.

Decision support and the appropriate use of fibrinolysis in myocardial 
infarction.

Kellett J(1).

Author information:
(1)Nenagh General Hospital, Nenagh, Ireland. kellett@iol.ie

Comment in
    Eff Clin Pract. 2001 Jan-Feb;4(1):34-8.

CONTEXT: For patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction, decisions 
about fibrinolytic therapy must account for trade-offs between risks and 
benefits, which vary according to the clinical characteristics of the patient.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether use of a decision-support computer program (DSCP) 
improves the selection of appropriate candidates for fibrinolytic therapy among 
patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: Before-and-after trial at a small rural hospital in Ireland.
INTERVENTION: DSCP based on a previously published decision-analysis model. With 
input of patient characteristics (e.g., age, sex, duration of symptoms, findings 
on electrocardiography) at initial evaluation, the DSCP predicts the likelihood 
of different outcomes (e.g., mortality, stroke) and life expectancy with and 
without fibrinolysis.
PATIENTS: 894 consecutive patients (262 before DSCP was introduced, 632 after) 
admitted to the coronary care unit with suspected acute myocardial infarction 
between January 1993 and July 1999.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of appropriate candidates (ST-segment elevation > 2 
mm on electrocardiogram, symptom duration < or = 6 hours) receiving fibrinolysis 
before and after implementation of DSCP.
RESULTS: In general, patients admitted before and after DSCP implementation had 
similar clinical characteristics. The preintervention group presented somewhat 
earlier after the onset of symptoms (5.4 hours for preintervention vs. 7.2 hours 
for postintervention; P < 0.01) but had fewer confirmed acute myocardial 
infarctions (32% vs. 38%; P = 0.13). The proportion of appropriate patients 
receiving fibrinolysis before and after DSCP was nearly identical (66.7% vs. 
68.9%; P > 0.2). Patients who received fibrinolysis after implementation of DSCP 
tended to be older (66.7 years vs. 63.8 years; P = 0.11) and were more likely to 
be female (36% vs. 26%; P > 0.2) than those who received fibrinolysis before 
DSCP implementation. The door-to-needle time decreased significantly from 88 
minutes to 67 minutes after implementation of DSCP (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Although overall rates of fibrinolysis did not change after 
implementation of DSCP, fibrinolytics may have been more appropriately directed 
toward higher risk patients who may be more likely to benefit from them.

PMID: 11234180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Pathologica. 2000 Dec;92(6):503-15.

[Primary gastric lymphomas. Clinico-pathological study and evaluation of 
prognostic factors in 65 cases treated surgically].

[Article in Italian]

Pozzi B(1), Hotz AM, Feltri M, Cornaggia M, Campiotti L, Bonato M, Pinotti G, 
Capella C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Cliniche e Biologiche, Università dell'Insubria, 
Varese.

Based on the histological criteria proposed by the REAL and adopted by the WHO 
Classification, 30 cases of MALT type lymphoma, 18 cases of diffuse large B cell 
lymphoma (DLCL), and 17 cases of DLCLs, associated with a MALT type, were 
identified in a series of 65 surgically treated primary gastric lymphomas. The 
clinical records of the patients were analyzed retrospectively and the resected 
specimens were immunostained for bcl-2, p53 and Ki-67. Primary gastric DLBCLs, 
with or without a MALT type component, disclosed a higher stage of local 
extension, a more frequent nodal involvement and a significantly worse survival 
than pure MALT types. High p53 expression and high proliferation rate correlated 
with the presence of a large cell component and appeared useful for its 
identification in mixed forms. Low bcl-2 expression discriminated DLCL from 
DLCL/MALT. Tumor size, stage and Mib-1 index revealed a value in predicting 
prognosis.

PMID: 11234301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Therapie. 2000 Nov-Dec;55(6):669-74.

[Prevention of cardiovascular diseases in elderly subjects with 
hypercholesterolemia].

[Article in French]

Bruckert E(1), Giral P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie-Métabolisme, Unités de Prévention des Maladies 
Cardiovasculaires, Hôpital Pitié Salpétrière, 83 boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 
Paris, France.

Cardiovascular diseases are frequent in elderly subjects and these patients also 
frequently present with hyperlipidaemia. Therapy must take current uncertainties 
into account and, in the absence of therapeutic studies carried out in the 
elderly, is typically based on a case-by-case approach. Raised cholesterol 
levels remain a significant risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD) in the 
elderly. Although the relative risk of CHD tends to diminish with increasing 
age, this reduction is accompanied by an increase in absolute risk (i.e. the 
number of events) as the frequency of the illness increases markedly with age. 
The results of major outcome studies with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A 
reductase inhibitors (statins), when analysed according to patient age, indicate 
that the benefits of these agents are not merely confined to younger 
individuals. However, the elderly form a unique patient population: the 
proportion of women is greater and the profile of cardiovascular illnesses is 
characterized, among other things, by a greater incidence of cerebrovascular 
accidents. Moreover, the potential widespread treatment of hyperlipidaemia in 
the elderly has profound economic implications. Under these circumstances, the 
clinical practice recommendations depend upon a reasonable extrapolation of 
epidemiological and therapeutic data obtained from middle-aged men. At present, 
treatment is therefore aimed at patients with the most severe forms of 
hyperlipidaemia, generally in the secondary prevention setting, taking into 
account the patient's life expectancy.

PMID: 11234461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2001;151(1-2):7-12.

[Amount and intensity of physical exercise in primary prevention].

[Article in German]

Smekal G(1), Pokan R, Baron R, Tschan H, Bachl N.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Sportphysiologie, Institut für Sportwissenschaften, Universität 
Wien, Auf der Schmelz 6, A-1150 Wien.

Numerous epidemiological studies have demonstrated an inverse relation between 
physical activity and physical "fitness" on one hand and premature death and the 
risk of chronic disease on the other hand. However, most of these studies showed 
crucial methodological and statistical differences, a fact which caused a lack 
of consensus of dose and intensity of physical activities for "health benefits". 
The optimal amount of physical activity to decrease mortality is in literature 
stated to range between 1,000 and 3,500 motoric kcal per week. Only a few data 
exist concerning the optimal intensity of preventive physical activities. There 
is some indication that only "vigorous" but not "non-vigorous" physical 
activities are associated with decreased mortality. Previous investigations 
suggest that a "threshold-intensity" (e.g. of at least 6 MET of "conditioning 
physical activity") is needed to produce an adequate preventive effect. On the 
other hand it has been documented, that "physical fitness" (endurance capacity) 
is a decisive factor for a decreased mortality. Therefore it may be assumed, 
that physical activities are only efficient for health benefits, if they also 
result in increased physical fitness. Following from this assumption the quality 
and quantity of training in primary prevention has to be adjusted to the 
individual requirements (performance, age, gender, health) of men.

PMID: 11234598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Neurologia. 2001 Jan;16(1):30-7.

[Quality of life and neurologic diseases].

[Article in Spanish]

Hernández Mejía R(1), Fernández López JA, Rancaño García I, Cueto Espinar A.

Author information:
(1)Area de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Oviedo, E33006 Oviedo, Asturias. radhames@correo.uniovi.es

BACKGROUND: The development reached by many countries of our planet has allowed 
that in them most of the infectious diseases have diminished and that the life 
expectancy is over the 75 years of life. As a result of this, degenerative and 
chronic diseases are every day more prevalent and their treatments are longer 
and complex. To value quality of life in these patients and the effect of the 
therapy on health is at the moment a main goal of public health.
OBJECTIVES: To know the origin, the evolution, and the theoretical foundation of 
the concept of the quality of life, as well as their measurement methods. On the 
other hand, to describe the characteristics of the different available 
questionnaires in Spain to measure the quality of life, either of generic or 
specific for neurologic illness.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The most important questionnaires which have been adapted 
and validated into Spanish have been revised. An exhaustive revision of the 
bibliography related with quality of life and neurology was carried out, and all 
the questionnaires described in these processes were revised.
RESULTS: We describe the philosophy and concepts of health, quality of life 
(QOL) and health related quality of life (HRQL). The following generic 
questionnaires are described: the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP), the Sickness 
Impact Profile (SIP), the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form (SF-36), the 
European Profile of Quality of Life (EuroQoL), the Questionnaire of Quality of 
Life (CCV) and the Profile of Life quality in the Chronically ill (PLC). In an 
exhaustive bibliographical revision on quality of life and neurology, 52 indexed 
papers appeared, of those which only twelve were related with those subject. The 
following specific questionnaires are described: Qualité de Vie et Migraine 
(QVM), the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39), the Functional Status 
Questionnaire (FSQ), the Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory (QOLIE-89) and 
their variant of 31 items. Finally two questionnaires ad hoc are described to 
study migraine and epilepsy.
CONCLUSIONS: The incorporation of HRQL measures in patients with neurological 
illnesses is an increasing and valued practice by its specialists. We observe 
that the availability of generic tools to measure the HRQL in Spanish is wider 
every day, although most of these come from other cultures. The process 
continued in their transcultural adaptation and validation allows us to have 
some tools of great reliability and effectiveness that facilitate its use. In 
relation to the specific questionnaires on neurologic process, the supply is 
considerably smaller due to the recent appearance of these methods in this 
clinic area.

PMID: 11234659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. South Med J. 2001 Feb;94(2):176-83.

Predicted impact of attaining smoking reduction goals on mortality.

Silverstein MD(1), Nietert PJ, Zoller JS, Silvestri GA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Care Research, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care 
Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 29425-8060, USA.

The impact of reducing smoking initiation, increasing smoking cessation, and 
combination approaches on life expectancy, deaths averted, and life-years gained 
in a birth cohort of 50,000 persons and in the state population (3.6 million) 
were analyzed. A 60% reduction in initiation of smoking in adolescents would 
increase life expectancy by 0.42 years. Over the next 100 years, there would be 
an additional 18,000 years of life for a birth cohort and an additional 675,000 
years of life for the state's population. The reduction in mortality, however, 
would not begin before 35 years, and only 25% of the benefit would occur in the 
next 70 years. An increase in smoking cessation would have a smaller impact that 
would occur sooner. Maximum reduction in mortality could be achieved by reducing 
initiation and increasing cessation at all ages, but a reduction in mortality 
would not occur for several decades.

PMID: 11235031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Pflege Z. 2001 Feb;54(2):126-8.

[Quality of life: without past and future there is no significant present].

[Article in German]

Schmitz-Scherzer R(1).

Author information:
(1)Geamthochschule Kassel-Universität.

PMID: 11235479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2001 Jan;21(1):57-64. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2000.1268.

Short-term (30-day) outcome of endovascular treatment of abdominal aortic 
aneurism: results from the prospective Registry of Endovascular Treatment of 
Abdominal Aortic Aneurism (RETA).

Thomas SM(1), Gaines PA, Beard JD; Vascular Surgical Society of Great Britain 
and Ireland; British Society of Interventional Radiology.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Vascular Institute, Northern General Hospital, Herries Road, 
Sheffield S57AU, U.K.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2001 Jan;21(1):3-5.

OBJECTIVES: to assess the early morbidity and mortality of a new treatment, the 
endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms, during its introduction into 
clinical practice.
DESIGN: a prospective voluntary registry collecting demographic and risk factor 
data, details of aneurysm morphology, procedure performed, immediate and 30-day 
outcomes.
SETTING: thirty-one U.K. centres performing endovascular repair submitted data.
RESULTS: six hundred and eleven cases were registered in three years of data 
collection (January 1996 to December 1998). Four per cent of patients received 
an aortic tube device, 60% an aorto-bi-iliac device and 36% an aorto-uni-iliac 
device and a crossover graft (AUIC). Conversion to open repair was required in 
5% of cases, with more conversions in the AUIC group (OR 2.9 (95% CI: 
1.3-6.4)p=0.01). Post procedure complications occurred in 25% of cases. Unfit 
patients had significantly more complications than fit patients (35% vs 20% for 
fit patients (OR 1.8 (95% CI: 1.2-2.7)p=0.007)). At 30 days aneurysms were 
excluded in 90% of cases. Endoleaks were more common in larger aneurysms (2% if 
aneurysms were <6 cm in diameter vs 10% if >6 cm, OR 5.6 (95% CI: 
2.1-14.9)p=0.0006). The overall mortality was 7% but was significantly higher 
for AUIC devices, (4% for combined aortic tube and bi-iliac devices (AT/BI) vs 
12%, OR 2.6 (95% CI: 1.2-5.9 p=0.018)), and unfit patients (4% for fit patients 
vs 18%, OR 4.3 (95% CI: 2.0-9.5)p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: endovascular repair is feasible with short-term outcomes comparable 
to those of conventional surgical repair. In unfit patients the possible benefit 
in life expectancy gain must be balanced against the morbidity and mortality of 
the procedure.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2000.1268
PMID: 11235667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Br J Cancer. 2001 Mar 2;84(5):604-10. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1637.

Phase I trial and pharmacological study of a 3-hour paclitaxel infusion in 
children with refractory solid tumours: a SFOP study.

Doz F(1), Gentet JC, Pein F, Frappaz D, Chastagner P, Moretti S, Vassal G, 
Arditti J, Tellingen OV, Iliadis A, Catalin J.

Author information:
(1)Departement d'Oncologie Pédiatrique, Institut Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, Paris, 
75231 Cx 05, France.

The maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel administered by 24-hour continuous 
infusion in children is known. Short infusion might offer equivalent antitumour 
efficacy and reduced haematological toxicity, without increasing the allergic 
risk. Our aims were to determine the maximum tolerated dose and the 
pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel in children when administered in 3-h infusion 
every 3 weeks. Patients older than 6 months, younger than 20 years with 
refractory malignant solid tumours were eligible when they satisfied standard 
haematological, renal, hepatic and cardiologic inclusion criteria with life 
expectancy exceeding 8 weeks. Paclitaxel was administered as a 3-hour infusion 
after premedication (dexamethasone, dexchlorpheniramine). Pharmacokinetic 
analysis and solvent assays (ethanol, cremophor) were performed during the first 
course. 20 courses were studied in 17 patients; 4 dosage levels were 
investigated (240 to 420 mg/m(2)). No dose-limiting haematological toxicity was 
observed. Severe acute neurological and allergic toxicity was encountered. One 
treatment-related death occurred just after the infusion at the highest dosage. 
Delayed peripheral neurotoxicity and moderate allergic reactions were also 
encountered. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed dose-dependent clearance of 
paclitaxel and elevated blood ethanol and Cremophor EL levels. Although no 
limiting haematological toxicity was reached, we do not recommend this 
paclitaxel schedule in children because of its acute neurological toxicity.

Copyright 2001 Cancer Research Campaign.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1637
PMCID: PMC2363793
PMID: 11237379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Br J Cancer. 2001 Mar 2;84(5):700-3. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1616.

Excess mortality from breast cancer 20 years after diagnosis when life 
expectancy is normal.

Louwman WJ(1), Klokman WJ, Coebergh JW.

Author information:
(1)Eindhoven Cancer Registry, Comprehensive Cancer Centre South (IKZ), PO Box 
231, Eindhoven, 5600 AE, The Netherlands.

In a population-based study, causes of death were traced of 418 deceased breast 
cancer patients diagnosed in 1960-1979 who survived at least 10 years after 
diagnosis. The pattern of causes of death in these patients was compared with 
the general female population using standardized mortality ratios (SMRs). Of 418 
patients surviving at least 10 years, 196 (47%) died from breast cancer and 50 
(12%) died from another cancer. The SMR for breast cancer was 15.8 (95% CI: 
13.1-18.8) 10-14 years after diagnosis; it was still 4.7 (95% CI: 2.6-7.8) after 
20 years. Overall mortality was higher than expected 10-14 years after diagnosis 
(SMR: 1.3; 95% CI: 1.1-1.5), but lower after more than 20 years (SMR: 0.6; 95% 
CI: 0.4-0.7). Despite a normal (or even improved) life expectancy for breast 
cancer patients 20 years after diagnosis the risk of dying from this disease 
remained elevated.

Copyright 2001 Cancer Research Campaign.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1616
PMCID: PMC2363789
PMID: 11237394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. BMJ. 2001 Mar 10;322(7286):591-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.322.7286.591.

Recent advances: International perspectives on health inequalities and policy.

Leon DA(1), Walt G, Gilson L.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT. 
d.leon@lshtm.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.322.7286.591
PMCID: PMC1119787
PMID: 11238156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Apr;55(4):263-70. doi:
10.1136/jech.55.4.263.

An analysis of health levels and various indicators of urban environments for 
Healthy Cities projects.

Takano T(1), Nakamura K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Environmental Science, School of Medicine, 
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Yushima 1-5-45, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8519, 
Japan. takano.hlth@med.tmd.ac.jp

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 Feb;57(2):84.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: (1) To identify and to categorise the various city indicators 
that are related to health levels; (2) to demonstrate the extent of the 
influence on health of these categorised health determinants; and (3) to 
demonstrate both the interactive associations among the health determinants and 
the magnitude of influence of each health determinant on the people's health.
DESIGN: By using city statistics of study areas, the health index and health 
determinant indices were formulated. The extent of influence of health 
determinants on the health index was examined by regression analysis; the 
interrelations between the health determinants and the health index were 
examined by correlation analysis.
SETTING: All the administrative units in Japan with populations more than 100 
000 were selected as study areas to analyse the relation of health and health 
determinants.
MAIN RESULTS: The nine health determinant indices used-healthcare resources, 
preventive health activities, environmental quality, housing, urban clutter, 
local economy, employment, income, and education-explained 51.6% of the 
variances of the health index as a whole in the cities studies. The health 
determinant indices showed interrelations with each other, in addition to 
individual health determinant indices having a high correlation with the health 
level index of the population.
CONCLUSIONS: Both individually and collectively the health determinants are 
closely related to the health status of a population and individual determinants 
interact with each other. Simultaneous analysis of the interrelations among 
health determinants and health status would contribute to widen integration 
oriented perspective in policy interventions based on collaboration between 
different sectors of society.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.4.263
PMCID: PMC1731876
PMID: 11238582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2001 Mar 7;93(5):341. doi: 10.1093/jnci/93.5.341.

Stat bite: Average years of life lost from cancer.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/93.5.341
PMID: 11238693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. J Nutr. 2001 Mar;131(3):903S-906S. doi: 10.1093/jn/131.3.903S.

The role of fat depletion in the biological benefits of caloric restriction.

Barzilai N(1), Gabriely I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. barzilai@aecom.yu.edu

One of the most robust observations in the biology of aging is that caloric 
restriction (CR) extends life in a variety of species. Although CR results in 
substantial decrease in fat mass, the role of fat in life extension was 
considered minimal. Indeed, in the fields of obesity and diabetes, the amount of 
fat has been directly implicated in the metabolic consequences. Since it became 
apparent that fat is a massive endocrine tissue, some of its roles have been 
recently revised. Many of the systemic effects of CR can now be explained by the 
chronic effects related to decreased plasma levels of peptides, cytokines, 
complement factors and substrates that are produced in fat. Most of the benefits 
of CR on the neuroendocrine system and those related to the improvement in 
glucose homeostasis can be attributed to a decrease in adipose cells and their 
products. If all or most of the life-extending benefits of CR can be attributed 
to decreased fat stores, the expression of specific candidate substrates and 
proteins may be explored and manipulated in searching for the most powerful 
adipose-dependent signals that modulate life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/131.3.903S
PMID: 11238783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Nutr. 2001 Mar;131(3):913S-917S. doi: 10.1093/jn/131.3.913S.

Calorie restriction in obesity: prevention of kidney disease in rodents.

Stern JS(1), Gades MD, Wheeldon CM, Borchers AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jsstern@ucdavis.edu

The incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has risen considerably in the 
past two decades. This trend is partly due to the alarming rise in the incidence 
of type 2 diabetes over the same period, which in turn might be linked to the 
staggering increase in overweight and obesity. If these trends continue, ESRD 
can be expected not only to cause suffering of ever growing numbers of patients, 
but also to become an increasing financial as well as logistical burden on the 
health care system. Therefore, it is imperative not only to gain a better 
understanding of the molecular, cellular and metabolic mechanisms involved in 
renal pathology, but also to uncover treatment modalities, including lifestyle 
changes, that can help prevent and/or slow the progression of kidney 
pathogenesis. Insights into both of these aspects are provided by animal models 
of obesity and diabetes. It has long been known that food restriction, more so 
than restriction of any particular dietary component, can greatly enhance 
longevity in laboratory rodents. These findings are being extended into a 
variety of other mammals, including nonhuman primates. These studies have 
indicated that caloric restriction in nonobese laboratory animals does not 
primarily affect specific disease processes but rather nonspecifically slows the 
aging process. In contrast, a growing body of evidence suggests that in 
genetically obese animals, food restriction can prevent or greatly delay the 
onset of specific degenerative lesions, in particular glomerulonephritis 
associated with obesity and diabetes.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/131.3.913S
PMID: 11238785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Qual Health Care. 2001 Mar;10(1):4-9. doi: 10.1136/qhc.10.1.4.

Improving the quality of surgeons' treatment decisions: a comparison of clinical 
decision making with a computerised evidence based decision analytical model.

Timmermans D(1), van Bockel H, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Making Unit, Leiden University Medical Center, K6-R, PO Box 
9600, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. DRM.Timmermans.EMGO@med.vu.nl

Comment in
    Qual Health Care. 2001 Mar;10(1):1-2.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to demonstrate to what extent an 
evidence based decision model can improve physicians' decisions and whether a 
selective use of the decision model is feasible.
METHODS: Four experienced vascular surgeons were asked to make a treatment 
decision for 137 "paper patient" cases with asymptomatic abdominal aneurysms. 
Their decisions were compared with the optimal treatment as calculated by a 
computerised evidence based decision analytical model.
RESULTS: Surgeons agreed with the model's advice based on life expectancy in 81% 
of the cases, and decided to operate in only 12% of the cases for which there 
was no agreement. Surgeons' decisions differed from the decision model's 
calculated optimal treatment, in particular, for older patients with aneurysms 
of intermediate size and with many risk factors, and for younger patients with 
small aneurysms and few risk factors. Not all these decisions, however, were 
reported to be more difficult.
CONCLUSION: Use of a decision analytical model might lead to more appropriate 
decisions and a better quality of care. Selective use of the decision tool for 
difficult decisions only would be more efficient but is not yet feasible because 
reported decision difficulty is not strongly related to disagreement with the 
decision tool.

DOI: 10.1136/qhc.10.1.4
PMCID: PMC1743418
PMID: 11239137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Eur J Cancer. 2001 Feb;37(3):369-75. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00411-1.

Economic analysis of adjuvant therapy with interferon alpha-2a in stage II 
malignant melanoma.

Lafuma A(1), Dreno B, Delaunay M, Emery C, Fagnani F, Hieke K, Bonerandi JJ, 
Grob JJ; French Cooperative Group on Melanoma.

Author information:
(1)Cemka, 43 boulevard du Maréchal Joffre, F-92340, Bourg-la-Reine, France. 
antoine.lafuma@cemka.fr

Using the trial demonstrating that interferonalpha-2a (IFNalpha-2a) is 
efficacious as adjuvant therapy in stage II melanoma, we evaluate its outcomes 
and economic consequences. Using rates observed in the 5-year trial and 
published figures, survival and Q-TWIST (Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity) 
were extrapolated to a 10-year and lifetime horizon. Cost analysis was performed 
using the trial's data, published literature and experts' opinions from the 
perspective of the French Sickness Funds. Patients in the IFNalpha-2a-group have 
an additional 0.26 years in life-expectancy over a 5-year time period (P=0.046), 
0.67 years over a 10-year period and 2.59 years over a lifetime. Cost per 
life-year-gained was estimated at approximately 14400 after 5 years, 6635 after 
10 years and 1716 over a lifetime. Assuming that there is an improvement in 
disease-free survival only, cost is 26147 per Q-TWIST. Cost-effectiveness of 
IFNalpha-2a in stage II melanoma compares favourably with estimates for widely 
used therapies in the oncological field.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00411-1
PMID: 11239759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Surg Neurol. 2000 Dec;54(6):447-51. doi: 10.1016/s0090-3019(00)00317-7.

Ophthalmoplegia resulting from an intraorbital hematoma.

Spence CA(1), Duong DH, Monsein L, Dennis MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, The George Washington University Medical 
Center, Washington, DC 20037, USA.

BACKGROUND: A case is described in which an intraorbital hematoma was found to 
complicate recovery from attempted aneurysm clipping 5 days into the 
postoperative period. The etiology, management, and complication avoidance are 
discussed.
CASE DESCRIPTION: Five days after attempted surgical clipping of an internal 
carotid artery aneurysm via a frontotemporal craniotomy with orbital osteotomy, 
a patient underwent coiling of the aneurysm. Shortly after the endovascular 
procedure, the patient developed exophthalmos and ophthalmoplegia involving the 
right side followed by decline in her level of consciousness. An emergency 
computed tomography (CT) scan revealed an epidural hematoma with intraorbital 
extension. After evacuation of the hematoma, the patient recovered extraocular 
function and returned to her baseline mental status.
CONCLUSION: Exophthalmos and ophthalmoplegia in a patient recovering from 
cranial surgery using skull base techniques warrants immediate attention, 
especially after endovascular procedures. Delay in intervention may result in 
loss of neurologic function or life. The authors discuss the relevant literature 
and management of this uncommon complication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(00)00317-7
PMID: 11240175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Mar;33(3):528-32. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.111729.

