Long-term assessment of cryopreserved vein bypass grafting success.

Harris L(1), O'brien-Irr M, Ricotta JJ.

Author information:
(1)KALEIDA Health, Millard Fillmore Hospital, Department of Surgery, State 
University of New York, Buffalo 14209, USA.

PURPOSE: When autogenous vein is unavailable, cryopreserved veins have been used 
in patients as a means of attempted limb salvage. We evaluated the long-term 
patency and limb salvage rates for patients undergoing bypass grafting with 
cryopreserved veins.
METHODS: Medical records were reviewed for patients undergoing cryovein bypass 
grafting at two hospitals from 1992 to 1997. Follow-up data were obtained from 
subsequent admissions and office records. Primary outcomes were death, 
amputation, and primary patency. Skin integrity and additional bypass grafting 
procedures were assessed when data were available. Analysis was performed by 
means of life-table and chi(2) analyses with the Statistical Package for Social 
Sciences (SPSS).
RESULTS: Seventy-six patients (mean age, 70 +/- 11 years) underwent 80 
procedures. Indications for surgery were tissue loss (63%), rest pain (24%), 
acute ischemia (11%), and other (2%). Early complications included 3 deaths 
(4%), 14 acute thromboses (18%), and 7 major amputations (9%). The mean 
follow-up period was 17.8 +/- 20.89 months (range, 0-77 months). The primary 
patency rate was determined to be 36.8% at 1 year and 23.6% at 3 years by means 
of life-table analysis. The limb salvage rate was 65.5% at 1 year and 62.3% at 3 
years. Skin integrity was found to be compromised in 17 (55%) of 31 patients who 
were available to follow-up. Nine patients (11.3%) underwent additional 
ipsilateral revascularization or revisions, with one of three of these patients 
eventually requiring a major amputation.
CONCLUSION: Cryopreserved vein may be a reasonable alternative conduit for limb 
salvage when no autogenous tissue is available; it has an acceptable limb 
salvage rate (62.3%) at 3 years. Long-term patency remains relatively poor, with 
only 23.6% of originally placed grafts patent at 3 years. The use of 
cryopreserved veins should be strictly confined to limb salvage after a thorough 
search for autogenous tissue has been exhausted.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.111729
PMID: 11241123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Med Care. 2001 Mar;39(3):217-27. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200103000-00003.

"Death" and the valuation of health-related quality of life.

Macran S(1), Kind P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Economics, University of York, Helsington, York, United 
Kingdom. sm37@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Despite evidence to the contrary, a common assumption 
in the area of health status measurement is that the state "dead" is the worst 
possible health state and by definition should be assigned a value of 0. 
However, the value of the state "dead" and the notion of states worse than 
"dead" have never been fully addressed as a research topic. This article 
demonstrates the extent of the variation in the value given to the state "dead" 
by individuals and the effects of transformation on individual and aggregate 
values using data elicited with 2 methods (visual analog scale rating and 
ranking) that place no constraint on the value given to the state "dead."
RESEARCH DESIGN: Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 253 adults in North 
Yorkshire, UK, in 1998. Each participant performed ranking and visual analog 
scale rating exercises for 19 EuroQol EQ-5D health states.
CONCLUSIONS AND RESULTS: Data showed that there is a small group of individuals 
who, when given the option, choose to place relatively high value on the state 
"dead" compared with other health states. This did not appear to be due to 
artifact. Evidence also suggested that the usual assumptions underlying the 
transformation of health state values, for which the distance between full 
health and "dead" is used to define the denominator, may not hold for these 
individuals and may distort aggregate preference structures. The authors stress 
the need for more systematic inquiry in this field.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200103000-00003
PMID: 11242317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Br J Nutr. 2000 Dec;84 Suppl 2:S169-71. doi: 10.1079/20010411600038.

Diet for health and longevity. Foreward.

Hoshi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Shizuoka Foundation of Health and Longevity.

DOI: 10.1079/20010411600038
PMID: 11242463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 6;134(5):345-60. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-5-200103060-00007.

The cost-utility of screening for depression in primary care.

Valenstein M(1), Vijan S, Zeber JE, Boehm K, Buttar A.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Development, Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Box 130170, Ann Arbor, MI 48113-0170, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 6;134(5):418-20.
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Mar 5;136(5):412; author reply 412.

BACKGROUND: Depressive disorders are common in primary care and cause 
substantial disability, but they often remain undiagnosed. Screening is a 
frequently proposed strategy for increasing detection of depression.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-utility of screening for depression compared with 
no screening.
DESIGN: Nonstationary Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: The published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Hypothetical cohort of 40-year-old primary care patients.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care payer and societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Self-administered questionnaire followed by provider assessment.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with no screening, the cost to society 
of annual screening for depression in primary care patients is $192 444/QALY. 
Screening every 5 years and one-time screening cost $50 988/QALY and $32 
053/QALY, respectively, compared with no screening. From the payer perspective, 
the cost of annual screening is $225 467.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSES: Cost-utility ratios are most sensitive to the 
prevalence of major depression, the costs of screening, rates of treatment 
initiation, and remission rates with treatment. In Monte Carlo sensitivity 
analyses, the cost-utility of annual screening is less than $50 000/QALY only 
2.2% of the time. In multiway analyses, four model variables must be changed to 
extreme values for the cost-utility of annual screening to fall below $50 
000/QALY, but a change in only one variable increases the cost-utility of 
one-time screening to more than $50 000/QALY. One-time screening is more 
robustly cost-effective if screening costs are low and effective treatments are 
being given.
CONCLUSIONS: Annual and periodic screening for depression cost more than $50 
000/QALY, but one-time screening is cost-effective. The cost-effectiveness of 
screening is likely to improve if treatment becomes more effective.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-5-200103060-00007
PMID: 11242495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2001 Feb;9(1):3-13.

The future of chronic diseases.

Kopczyński J(1), Wojtyniak B, Goryński P, Lewandowski Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Social Medicine, Warsaw Medical 
University, Poland.

Major chronic diseases continue to be the main health scourge of the most 
developed countries, have only recently been retreating in frequency in the 
fledgling market economies, and are becoming dominant in many populous areas of 
the developing world. The descriptive evidence from the developments of the near 
past strongly suggests that much of the control outcomes have already been 
achieved with the existent imperfect causative knowledge. The continuation of 
desirable trends in major chronic diseases in some places like Central & Eastern 
Europe, is uncertain within the intermediate time range without gaining more 
etiological clues, among which the role of medical care is worthy of 
reconsideration. Other factors can grow in importance, like obesity, which may 
be freed from the suppressive influence of cigarette smoking to trigger major 
mass pathologies, like type 2 diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension, some 
cancers etc. The role of social underpriviledge seems recalcitrant, although the 
part played by social share of biological risk agents may diminish in response 
to educational persuasion. The remotest destinies of some chronic diseases may 
depend on the mixture of external and genetic influences ending as 
predispositions towards some ailments, antecedents of which might have protected 
their carriers from dangers of the past unfriendly environment, like obesity (or 
diabetes) against famine, or hypertension against inefficient defense reaction. 
The resulting medium-range prediction of well-being for inhabitants of more 
developed world may not be forbidding, since increasing life expectancy needs 
not be synonymous with disability, and attaining old age does not require 
excessive sacrifice, beyond reducing number smoked, or preserving decent 
respiratory volumes.

PMID: 11243586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Biol Chem. 2001 Mar 16;276(11):7713-6. doi: 10.1074/jbc.C000889200. Epub
2001  Jan 17.

Altered quinone biosynthesis in the long-lived clk-1 mutants of Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Miyadera H(1), Amino H, Hiraishi A, Taka H, Murayama K, Miyoshi H, Sakamoto K, 
Ishii N, Hekimi S, Kita K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Mutations in the clk-1 gene of Caenorhabditis elegans result in an extended life 
span and an average slowing down of developmental and behavioral rates. However, 
it has not been possible to identify biochemical changes that might underlie the 
extension of life span observed in clk-1 mutants, and therefore the function of 
CLK-1 in C. elegans remains unknown. In this report, we analyzed the effect of 
clk-1 mutation on ubiquinone (UQ(9)) biosynthesis and show that clk-1 mutants 
mitochondria do not contain detectable levels of UQ(9). Instead, the UQ(9) 
biosynthesis intermediate, demethoxyubiquinone (DMQ(9)), is present at high 
levels. This result demonstrates that CLK-1 is absolutely required for the 
biosynthesis of UQ(9) in C. elegans. Interestingly, the activity levels of 
NADH-cytochrome c reductase and succinate-cytochrome c reductase in mutant 
mitochondria are very similar to those in the wild-type, suggesting that DMQ(9) 
can function as an electron carrier in the respiratory chain. To test this 
possibility, the short side chain derivative DMQ(2) was chemically synthesized. 
We find that DMQ(2) can act as an electron acceptor for both complex I and 
complex II in clk-1 mutant mitochondria, while another ubiquinone biosynthesis 
precursor, 3-hydroxy-UQ(2), cannot. The accumulation of DMQ(9) and its use in 
mutant mitochondria indicate, for the first time in any organism, a link between 
the alteration in the quinone species used in respiration and life span.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.C000889200
PMID: 11244089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Gerontology. 2001 Jan-Feb;47(1):9-14. doi: 10.1159/000052764.

Prenatal exposure to a maternal low protein diet shortens life span in rats.

Aihie Sayer A(1), Dunn R, Langley-Evans S, Cooper C.

Author information:
(1)MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit, Southampton General Hospital, University 
of Southampton, Southampton General Hospital, Southampton, UK. 
aas@mrc.soton.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Postweaning diet restriction is associated with prolongation of life 
span, reduced age-related disease and slower ageing. The effects of diet 
restriction imposed prior to weaning have not been so well characterised, but 
studies suggest an opposite effect with increased age-related diseases occurring 
in offspring exposed to undernutrition in prenatal life. It remains unclear 
whether life span is similarly adversely affected by early diet restriction.
OBJECTIVE: The present study in rats aimed to evaluate the impact of a maternal 
low protein diet upon the life span of the resulting offspring.
METHODS: Rat dams were fed either a 180-gram casein/kg control diet or a 90-gram 
casein/kg low protein diet from conception until the end of pregnancy. The 
offspring were then maintained with minimal handling until death from natural 
causes or distress-necessitated euthanasia.
RESULTS: The average life span of female rats exposed to low protein diets in 
utero was reduced by 11% (p = 0.044, Kaplan-Meier analysis). There was a similar 
but non- significant trend in the male offspring (control 76 +/- 3 weeks, low 
protein 73 +/- 3 weeks). In addition the rats exposed to a prenatal low protein 
diet had significantly higher systolic blood pressure at 4 weeks of age and 
tended to be smaller than control animals in postnatal life.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that intrauterine diet restriction reduces life 
span in rats and contrasts with the well-recognised increase in life span 
produced by postweaning diet restriction. The timing of the nutritional 
intervention appears to be critical and recognition of this is relevant to 
understanding the mechanisms underlying the effects of diet restriction on 
ageing and life span.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000052764
PMID: 11244286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Jan;27(1):73-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702726.

Prophylactic donor lymphocyte infusions after moderately ablative chemotherapy 
and stem cell transplantation for hematological malignancies: high remission 
rate among poor prognosis patients at the expense of graft-versus-host disease.

de Lima M(1), Bonamino M, Vasconcelos Z, Colares M, Diamond H, Zalcberg I, 
Tavares R, Lerner D, Byington R, Bouzas L, da Matta J, Andrade C, Carvalho L, 
Pires V, Barone B, Maciel C, Tabak D.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplantation Unit, Instituto Nacional de Cancer, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

We investigated the use of 'prophylactic' donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) 
containing 1 x 107 CD3+ cells, given at 30, 60 and 90 days post-allogeneic blood 
and marrow transplantation (BMT), following conditioning with fludarabine 30 
mg/m(2)/4 days and melphalan 70 mg/m(2)/2 days. GVHD prophylaxis consisted of 
cyclosporin A (CsA) 2 mg/kg daily with early tapering by day 60. Our goals were 
the rapid achievement of chimerism and disease control, providing an 
immunological platform for DLIs to treat refractory patients with hematological 
malignancies. Twelve heavily pre-treated patients with life expectancy less than 
6 months were studied; none were in remission. Diagnoses were AML (n = 4), MDS 
(n = 1), ALL (n = 3), CML (n = 3) and multiple myeloma (n = 1). Response rate 
was 75%. Three patients are alive at a median of 450 days (range, 450-540). Two 
patients are in remission of CML in blast crisis and AML for more than 14 
months. Median survival is 116 days (range, 25-648). Six patients received 12 
DLIs; three patients developed acute GVHD after the first infusion and were 
excluded from further DLIs, but no GVHD occurred among patients receiving 
subsequent DLIs. One patient with CML in blast crisis went into CR after the 
first DLI. The overall incidence of acute GVHD was 70%. Primary causes of death 
were infections (n = 3), acute GVHD (n = 3), chronic GVHD (n = 1) and disease 
relapse (n = 2). We observed high response and chimerism rates at the expense of 
an excessive incidence of GVHD. DLI given at day +30 post BMT caused GVHD in 50% 
of the patients, and its role in this setting remains unclear.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1702726
PMID: 11244440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Ann Chir. 2000 Nov;125(9):856-60. doi: 10.1016/s0003-3944(00)00008-0.

[Surveillance after treatment of differentiated thyroid cancers].

[Article in French]

Mellière D(1), Berrahal D, Hindie E, Jeanguillaume C, Becquemin JP, Lange F.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire et endocrinienne, CHU Henri-Mondor, 94010 
Créteil, France. didier.melliere@hmn.ap-hop-paris.fr

The prognosis of differentiated thyroid carcinoma mainly depends on the quality 
of the initial treatment and on early detection and management of any 
recurrences.
STUDY AIM: The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the modalities and 
duration of surveillance in these patients according to an original 
classification based on the initial extent of the tumour.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: The modalities of detection of local recurrences and 
metastases and the date of the latest recurrences were assessed in a series of 
509 patients with a mean follow-up of 8.2 years (range: 1 to 25 years). Most 
patients were treated by total thyroidectomy, followed by a therapeutic dose of 
radioactive iodine. The other patients with a small localized carcinoma 
underwent partial thyroidectomy without radioactive iodine. Patients were 
divided into four groups on the 7th postoperative month after follow-up 
scintigraphy and thyroglobulin assay: group I: microcancers (n = 117), group II: 
cancer without lymph node involvement or metastasis and normal thyroglobulin 
divided into IIA, age < 45 years (n = 100) and IIB, age > 45 (n = 94), group 
III: cancer with lymph node involvement and normal thyroglobulin (n = 102), 
group IV: high-risk cancers with metastases or regional extension other than 
lymph node extension or thyroglobulin > 3 micrograms/L (n = 96).
RESULTS: Cancer-dependent actuarial survival rates for groups I, IIA, IIB, III, 
IV were 100%, 100%, 96%, 100%, and 73% at 10 years and 100%, 100%, 92%, 100%, 
and 86% at 15 years, respectively. Local or metastatic recurrences were 
sometimes detected by a single follow-up examination, while the other 
examinations were negative: cervical palpation, thyroglobulin assay, iodine 
scintigraphy, chest X-rays. The latest recurrences were observed at 12 years in 
groups I and IIA and at 16 years in groups IIB, III, and IV with normal 
thyroglobulin.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the importance of weaning thyroglobulin assays 
and scintigraphy which must be repeated every 5 years. Cervical palpation, 
thyroglobulin assay without weaning, chest X-rays may also detect recurrences. 
Duration of follow-up must be adapted to the initial extension and subsequent 
course: 15 years in groups I and IIA, 20 years in groups IIB, III, and IV with 
normal thyroglobulin, for at least 10 years after each recurrence, and life-long 
in the case of progression and thyroglobulin > 3 micrograms/L. Patients must be 
informed about the duration of follow-up at the 7th month when the definitive 
classification can be established and continuity of this follow-up must be 
documented in a special register.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-3944(00)00008-0
PMID: 11244593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Circulation. 2001 Mar 13;103(10):1416-21. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.103.10.1416.

Cost-effectiveness of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: results from 
the Canadian Implantable Defibrillator Study (CIDS).

O'Brien BJ(1), Connolly SJ, Goeree R, Blackhouse G, Willan A, Yee R, Roberts RS, 
Gent M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2001 Nov-Dec;135(3):113.
    Circulation. 2001 Mar 13;103(10):1372-4.

BACKGROUND: In the Canadian Implantable Defibrillator Study (CIDS), we assessed 
the cost-effectiveness of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) in 
reducing the risk of death in survivors of previous ventricular tachycardia (VT) 
or fibrillation (VF).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Healthcare resource use was collected prospectively on the 
first 430 patients enrolled in CIDS (n=212 ICD, n=218 amiodarone). Mean cost per 
patient, adjusted for censoring, was computed for each group based on initial 
therapy assignment. Incremental cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy was computed 
as the ratio of the difference in cost (ICD minus amiodarone) to the difference 
in life expectancy (both discounted at 3% per year). All costs are in 1999 
Canadian dollars (C$1 approximately US$0.65). Over 6.3 years, mean cost per 
patient in the ICD group was C$87 715 versus C$38 600 in the amiodarone group 
(difference C$49 115; 95% CI C$25 502 to C$69 508). Life expectancy for the ICD 
group was 4.58 years versus 4.35 years for amiodarone (difference 0.23, 95% CI 
-0.09 to 0.55), for incremental cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy of C$213 543 
per life-year gained. ICD benefit was greater in patients with low left 
ventricular ejection fraction (<35%), and cost-effectiveness in this group was 
more attractive (C$108 484). Alternative extrapolations of survival benefit and 
costs to 12 years indicated cost-effectiveness in the range of C$100 000 to 
C$150 000 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: At C$213 543, the value for the money offered by ICD therapy is not 
attractive by currently accepted standards. Further research is warranted to 
identify the indications and patient subgroups for whom ICDs are a 
cost-effective use of resources.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.103.10.1416
PMID: 11245646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Neurosci. 2001 Mar 15;21(6):2028-38. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.21-06-02028.2001.

Regulation of microglial development: a novel role for thyroid hormone.

Lima FR(1), Gervais A, Colin C, Izembart M, Neto VM, Mallat M.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U.495, Hôpital de 
la Salpêtrière, 75651 Paris Cedex 13, France.

The postnatal development of rat microglia is marked by an important increase in 
the number of microglial cells and the growth of their ramified processes. We 
studied the role of thyroid hormone in microglial development. The distribution 
and morphology of microglial cells stained with isolectin B4 or monoclonal 
antibody ED1 were analyzed in cortical and subcortical forebrain regions of 
developing rats rendered hypothyroid by prenatal and postnatal treatment with 
methyl-thiouracil. Microglial processes were markedly less abundant in 
hypothyroid pups than in age-matched normal animals, from postnatal day 4 up to 
the end of the third postnatal week of life. A delay in process extension and a 
decrease in the density of microglial cell bodies, as shown by cell counts in 
the developing cingulate cortex of normal and hypothyroid animals, were 
responsible for these differences. Conversely, neonatal rat hyperthyroidism, 
induced by daily injections of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3), accelerated the 
extension of microglial processes and increased the density of cortical 
microglial cell bodies above physiological levels during the first postnatal 
week of life. Reverse transcription-PCR and immunological analyses indicated 
that cultured cortical ameboid microglial cells expressed the alpha1 and beta1 
isoforms of nuclear thyroid hormone receptors. Consistent with the trophic and 
morphogenetic effects of thyroid hormone observed in situ, T3 favored the 
survival of cultured purified microglial cells and the growth of their 
processes. These results demonstrate that thyroid hormone promotes the growth 
and morphological differentiation of microglia during development.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.21-06-02028.2001
PMCID: PMC6762591
PMID: 11245686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2001 Mar;82(3):415-8. doi: 10.1053/apmr.2001.19784.

Bilateral, simultaneous, spontaneous rupture of quadriceps tendons without 
trauma in an obese patient: a case report.

Kelly BM(1), Rao N, Louis SS, Kostes BT, Smith RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Rush-Presbyterian-St. 
Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

This is a single case report of bilateral, simultaneous, spontaneous rupture of 
the quadriceps tendon caused by obesity without trauma. The patient was a 
52-year-old, 350-pound, morbidly obese man with a sedentary life style whose 
quadriceps tendons ruptured while he was descending a staircase. He presented 
with a large deficit superior to the patella and an inability to straighten his 
knees. After surgery, his knees were immobilized in extension for 6 weeks, 
followed by gradual weight bearing and gait training with braces. He was weaned 
off the braces as he increased the range of motion and strength in his knees. 
The rehabilitation process was protracted, and he returned to full-time work 6 
months postinjury. Physiatrists should be familiar with the diagnosis, 
treatment, and rehabilitation of this rare condition.

DOI: 10.1053/apmr.2001.19784
PMID: 11245767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(2):161-70.

The epidemiologic transition. A theory of the Epidemiology of population change. 
1971.

Omran AR.

PMCID: PMC2566347
PMID: 11246833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Biomaterials. 2001 Apr;22(7):717-23. doi: 10.1016/s0142-9612(00)00235-0.

Mixed oxides prosthetic ceramic ball heads. Part 3: effect of the ZrO2 fraction 
on the wear of ceramic on ceramic hip joint prostheses. A long-term in vitro 
wear study.

Affatato S(1), Goldoni M, Testoni M, Toni A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Tecnologia Medica, Istituti Ortopedici Rizzoli, Bologna, 
Italy. affatato@tecno.ior.it

Using ceramic materials it is possible to obtain a number of beneficial 
mechanical properties such as considerable hardness, good chemical resistance, 
high tensile strength, and a good fracture toughness. The use of 
ceramic-on-ceramic as bearing surfaces for hip joint prostheses has been 
reported to produce a lower wear rate than other combinations (i.e. 
metal-on-polyethylene and ceramic-on-polyethylene) in total hip artroplasty. 
These advantages may increase the life expectancy of hip implants and improve 
the life of patients. Two new types of mixed-oxide ceramics (alumina and 
yttria-stabilised zirconia) femoral heads and acetabular cups containing 
different ratios of alumina and zirconia were compared with pure commercial 
alumina in terms of wear behaviour in a hip joint simulator. Hip joint wear 
simulator studies were carried out with a full-peak load of 2030 N and a 
frequency of 1 Hz in bovine calf serum. After 10 million cycles the measured 
weight loss of all specimens was very low. However, the experimental results did 
not show any significant difference between the new experimental mixed-oxide 
ceramics prototype and the commercial ceramic material couplings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0142-9612(00)00235-0
PMID: 11246966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 Feb;24(2):51-5. doi:
10.1016/s0210-5705(01)78985-6.

[Predictive factors of the mortality of digestive hemorrhage caused by 
esophageal varices in elderly patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Piqueras B(1), Bañares R, Rincón D, Matilla A, Casado M, Salcedo M, Alonso S, 
Vaquero J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio 
Marañón, Madrid.

Complications of liver cirrhosis are increasingly frequent in elderly patients 
due to increased life expectancy and better management of cirrhotic patients. 
However, the influence of this condition on the evolution of variceal bleeding 
has not been well established. The aim of the present study was to determine the 
characteristics of esophagogastric variceal bleeding in elderly patients and the 
possible influence of advanced age on hemorrhage-related mortality. We analyzed 
321 episodes of variceal bleeding in 227 cirrhotic patients. One hundred and 
thirteen (35.2%) episodes occurred in patients older than 65 years. No 
differences were found among patients older or younger than this age in terms of 
bleeding characteristics or Child-Pugh score. Patients older than 65 years more 
frequently presented serious associated diseases, hepatocellular carcinoma and 
hepatic encephalopathy during the episode (52.7% vs. 14%, p < 0.001; 19.7% vs. 
8.7%, p = 0.01 and 17.4% vs. 10%, p = 0.09 respectively). Although 
hemorrhage-related mortality was higher in elderly patients (23.2% vs. 13.5%, p 
= 0.04), only the Child-Pugh score, definitive hemostasis, hepatocellular 
carcinoma and the development of encephalopathy or bacterial infection were 
independent predictive factors of mortality. A considerable proportion of the 
patients with esophagogastric variceal bleeding were older than 65 years. 
Advanced age does not independently influence mortality due to variceal 
bleeding.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-5705(01)78985-6
PMID: 11247289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Lancet. 2001 Mar 3;357(9257):680-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)04132-5.

Survival estimates for patients with homozygous sickle-cell disease in Jamaica: 
a clinic-based population study.

Wierenga KJ(1), Hambleton IR, Lewis NA.

Author information:
(1)Sickle Cell Unit, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, University of the 
West Indies, Mona, Kingston, Jamaica. kjwier@uwimona.edu.jm

BACKGROUND: Information about life expectancy of patients with homozygous 
sickle-cell disease is needed for research and patient counselling. Our aim was 
to study two Jamaican populations, one clinic-based and one birth cohort and, by 
careful consideration of data quality and statistical analysis, to identify ways 
to increase the chances of obtaining valid and generalisable results.
METHODS: We investigated the survival experience of 3301 patients with 
homozygous sickle-cell disease attending the Jamaican sickle-cell clinic between 
Jan 1, 1987, and Dec 31, 1996. We applied and assessed a simulation technique 
for incorporating early life mortality using a birth cohort, and analysed the 
precision of this technique. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates are produced.
FINDINGS: 290 of the 3301 patients died. Median survival calculated with the 
excess mortality rate simulation data was 53 years (95% CI 49.3-57.0) for men 
and 58.5 (55.1-67.5) for women.
INTERPRETATION: Our simulation technique, with realistic assumptions based on 
empirical evidence, offers a new estimate of median survival for patients with 
homozygous sickle-cell disease. We present the precision of these survival 
estimates, which introduces an important level of uncertainty. The inherent 
biases of clinically ascertained populations of patients, and the assumptions 
underlying analysis techniques are crucial features of survival studies in 
sickle-cell disease, and can modify summary statistics substantially.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)04132-5
PMID: 11247552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Ann Rheum Dis. 2001 Apr;60(4):359-66. doi: 10.1136/ard.60.4.359.

Antibiotic prophylaxis for haematogenous bacterial arthritis in patients with 
joint disease: a cost effectiveness analysis.

Krijnen P(1), Kaandorp CJ, Steyerberg EW, van Schaardenburg D, Moens HJ, Habbema 
JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
krijnen@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis for 
haematogenous bacterial arthritis in patients with joint disease.
METHODS: In a decision analysis, data from a prospective study on bacterial 
arthritis in 4907 patients with joint disease were combined with literature data 
to assess risks and benefits of antibiotic prophylaxis. Effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness calculations were performed on antibiotic prophylaxis for various 
patient groups. Grouping was based on (a) type of event leading to transient 
bacteraemia-that is, infections (dermal, respiratory/urinary tract) and invasive 
medical procedures-and (b) the patient's susceptibility to bacterial arthritis 
which was increased in the presence of rheumatoid arthritis, large joint 
prostheses, comorbidity, and old age.
RESULTS: Of the patients with joint disease, 59% had no characteristics that 
increased susceptibility to bacterial arthritis, and 31% had one. For dermal 
infections, the effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis was maximally 35 quality 
adjusted life days (QALDs) and the cost effectiveness maximally $52 000 per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY). For other infections, the effectiveness of 
prophylaxis was lower and the cost effectiveness higher. Prophylaxis for 
invasive medical procedures seemed to be acceptable only in patients with high 
susceptibility: 1 QALD at a cost of $1300/QALY; however, the results were 
influenced substantially when the level of efficacy of the prophylaxis or cost 
of prophylactic antibiotics was changed.
CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis seems to be indicated only for dermal infections, and 
for infections of the urinary and respiratory tract in patients with increased 
susceptibility to bacterial arthritis. Prophylaxis for invasive medical 
procedures, such as dental treatment, may only be indicated for patients with 
joint disease who are highly susceptible.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.60.4.359
PMCID: PMC1753617
PMID: 11247866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):824-31. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441108.

The cost effectiveness of combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV disease.

Freedberg KA(1), Losina E, Weinstein MC, Paltiel AD, Cohen CJ, Seage GR, Craven 
DE, Zhang H, Kimmel AD, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and the Partners AIDS Research Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston 02114, USA. 
kfreedberg@partners.org

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):844-6.
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 5;345(1):68; author reply 68-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 5;345(1):68; author reply 68-9.

BACKGROUND: Combination antiretroviral therapy with a combination of three or 
more drugs has become the standard of care for patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in the United States. We estimated the 
clinical benefits and cost effectiveness of three-drug antiretroviral regimens.
METHODS: We developed a mathematical simulation model of HIV disease, using the 
CD4 cell count and HIV RNA level as predictors of the progression of disease. 
Outcome measures included life expectancy, life expectancy adjusted for the 
quality of life, lifetime direct medical costs, and cost effectiveness in 
dollars per quality-adjusted year of life gained. Clinical data were derived 
from major clinical trials, including the AIDS Clinical Trials Group 320 Study. 
Data on costs were based on the national AIDS Cost and Services Utilization 
Survey, with drug costs obtained from the Red Book.
RESULTS: For patients similar to those in the AIDS Clinical Trials Group 320 
Study (mean CD4 cell count, 87 per cubic millimeter), life expectancy adjusted 
for the quality of life increased from 1.53 to 2.91 years, and per-person 
lifetime costs increased from $45,460 to $77,300 with three-drug therapy as 
compared with no therapy. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted year of life 
gained, as compared with no therapy, was $23,000. On the basis of additional 
data from other major studies, the cost-effectiveness ratio for three-drug 
therapy ranged from $13,000 to $23,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. 
The initial CD4 cell count and drug costs were the most important determinants 
of costs, clinical benefits, and cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of HIV infection with a combination of three 
antiretroviral drugs is a cost-effective use of resources.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441108
PMID: 11248160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):844-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441112.

Providing antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection.

Steinbrook R.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):817-23.
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):824-31.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441112
PMID: 11248164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Am J Surg. 2001 Jan;181(1):24-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00547-x.

Patency and flow characteristics using stapled vascular anastomoses in dialysis 
grafts.

Cook JW(1), Schuman ES, Standage BA, Heinl P.

Author information:
(1)Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital, Department of Surgery, 1130 NW 22nd Avenue, 
#300, 97210, Portland, OR, USA.

BACKGROUND: Improving patency of hemodialysis grafts is challenging. Vascular 
stapling creates nonpenetrating anastomoses, possibly decreasing intimal 
hyperplasia. We investigated patency and flow characteristics of stapled 
hemodialysis grafts.
METHODS: Eighty-six grafts (41 stapled, 45 sewn) were placed in 84 patients 
(prospective, randomized). The groups had comparable demographics.
RESULTS: Thirty-six grafts were functioning at the study endpoint. Complications 
in both groups were similar. The primary patency (stapled, 342 days versus sewn, 
382 days; P = 0.67) and secondary patency (stapled, 513 days versus sewn, 507 
days; P = 0.76) had no significant differences. Flow characteristics were 
similar between the groups. Thrombectomies per patient-year were 1.01 for 
stapled grafts and 1.12 for sewn grafts (not significant). Stapling decreased 
the average operating time by 4.5 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: Stapled and sewn anastomoses have similar primary and secondary 
patency and flow characteristics, with minimal operative time differences. 
Stapled anastomoses are safe but had no advantage over sewn anastomoses in this 
study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00547-x
PMID: 11248171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 2001 Jan-Feb;48(1):118-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1550-7408.2001.tb00423.x.

Gametogenesis, fertilization and ookinete differentiation of Leucocytozoon 
smithi.

Steele EJ(1), Noblet GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Clemson University, South Carolina 
29634-0326, USA.

Development of Leucocytozoon smithi during gametogenesis, fertilization, and 
ookinete differentiation was studied by light and electron microscopy. 
Gametogenesis occurred rapidly, within 1-2 min after gametocytes were ingested 
by black flies. Usually one axoneme, but not infrequently two, was observed in 
microgametes. The macrogamete nucleus was characteristically elongated and 
fragmented, with a convoluted nuclear envelope. Fertilization occurred within 
five min after ingestion of gametocytes by the vector. The entire axoneme and 
nucleus of the microgamete entered the cytoplasm of the macrogamete. Zygote 
differentiation resembled sporozoite formation in that a thickened inner 
membrane and subpellicular microtubules developed beneath the plasmalemma, 
followed by cytoplasmic protrusion or evagination to form the anterior end. 
Extension of the inner thickened membrane continued as the zygote elongated. 
Development of sausage-shaped ookinetes was completed within 6-8 h after 
ingestion of a blood meal by a black fly. Mature ookinetes possessed a single 
nucleus, double-layered pellicle, canopy, apical pore, polar ring complex, 
subpellicular microtubules, micronemes, crystalloids, abundant mitochondria, 
endoplasmic reticulum, and ribosomes. Comparison of development of L. smithi 
with species of Plasmodium and Haemoproteus revealed general similarities in 
both sexual and asexual development within the insect vector. A diagram 
summarizing life cycle events for L. smithi is included.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1550-7408.2001.tb00423.x
PMID: 11249187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2001 Apr 6;58(1):53-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-5876(00)00466-3.

Indirect costs, cost-utility variations and the funding of paediatric cochlear 
implantation.

O'Neill C(1), Archbold SM, O'Donoghue GM, McAlister DA, Nikolopoulos TP.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Policy, Economics and Law, University of Ulster at 
Jordanstown, Newtownabbey BT37 0QB, Northern Ireland, UK. c.oneill2@ulst.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the existence of variations in cost-utility associated 
with indirect costs in paediatric cochlear implantation; to illustrate the 
implications of this for purchasing decisions and; to posit a potential solution 
to anomalies in purchasing that may otherwise result when services are publicly 
funded.
METHODS: Data was taken from published sources on the cost of implantation, 
outcomes measured in terms of quality adjusted life years (QALY) and in savings 
in education costs associated with paediatric cochlear implantation. 
Cost-utility ratios across education authorities were calculated using a single 
centre's implantation costs.
RESULTS: Variations in savings across education authorities show that the cost 
per QALY gain associated with paediatric cochlear implantation can vary between 
approximately $12,000 and $18,000 assuming an exchange rate of $1.45 = 1 pound 
sterling for the same implant centre. These variations have the potential to 
produce situations in which less efficient implant centres are preferred by 
purchasers over more efficient ones or in which candidates with poorer outcomes 
are selected for funding over candidates with superior outcomes. It is important 
that savings associated with education be taken into consideration in 
evaluations intended to inform purchasing decisions regarding implantation. 
Equally it is important that potentially anomalous decisions be avoided if 
evaluations are to remain credible. It is argued that this may be achievable if 
public funding for implantation is determined at a national level and 
ring-fenced i.e. devoted exclusively to use in cochlear implantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5876(00)00466-3
PMID: 11249980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Mar;36(3):431-40. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00225-4.

Comparative demography of isogenic populations of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Chen J(1), Carey JR, Ferris H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nematology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
carlchen@mailbox.ucdavis.edu

Demographic characteristics of the bacterial-feeding nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans were determined in two long-lived mutant strains, TJ1052 (age-1), CB4876 
(clk-1), and a wild-type strain, N2. Within each strain, there was little 
correlation between longevity and reproduction for individuals that lived longer 
than 10days. Long-lived mutant strains produced fewer eggs than the wild type. 
Mean total life spans were 13.2days for the wild type, 21.9days for age-1, and 
15.8days for clk-1; maximum life spans were 24days for the wild type, 47days for 
age-1, and 32days for clk-1. Differences in total life span resulted primarily 
from longer post-reproductive survival. The mean post-reproductive life spans 
were longer than the wild type by 183% in age-1 and 60% in clk-1. We conclude 
that (i) post-reproductive survival is not correlated with egg production within 
isogenic populations of C. elegans, and (ii) the relationship between 
reproduction and longevity differs among isogenic populations with specific 
longevity genes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00225-4
PMID: 11250116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Apr;9(2):122-6. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00096-x.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in patients with ischemic tissue necrosis 
is worthwhile.

Mellière D(1), Berrahal D, D'Audiffret A, Desgranges P, Allaire E, Becquemin JP.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, University of Paris, Val de Marne, 94010 Creteil, 
France.

PURPOSE: Ischemic tissue necrosis is usually associated with long or sequential 
arterial obstructions. As a result, the role of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (PTA), which addresses only short lesions, in patients presenting 
with trophic changes remains questionable. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate the effectiveness of PTA in diabetic and non-diabetic patients 
presenting with grade 4 Fontaine's classification.
METHOD: Between January 1992 and December 1997, 1352 patients with aorto-iliac 
and/or infrainguinal occlusive diseases were admitted to our institution. Three 
hundred and ten patients who presented with distal gangrene (95.5%) or ischemic 
ulcers (4.5%) were identified. The patients consisted of 117 diabetics and 193 
non-diabetics. PTA alone was performed in 26 diabetics (group 1) and in 30 
non-diabetics (group 2). Their charts were retrospectively reviewed and the 
patients were recalled for clinical examination and non-invasive monitoring.
RESULTS: Follow-up was available for all patients and ranged from 1 to 4 years. 
The survival rate was significantly higher in diabetic patients than in 
non-diabetic patients (96% vs 77% at 1 year; p<0.05 and 91% vs 66% at 3 years; 
p<0.05). In group 1, the primary cumulative patency rate at 1 and 3 years was 
76%. In group 2, the primary cumulative patency rate at 1 and 3 years were 85% 
and 80%, respectively. Three patients in group 1 required a redo PTA at 4 
months, resulting in an assisted primary patency rate at 1 and 3 years of 88%. 
In contrast, no patients in group 2 required additional PTA. In group 1, the 
limb salvage rate at 1 and 3 years was 84%; and in group 2, 80% and 75%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The results of PTA in both groups were encouraging. Dilation of one 
or two short stenoses, despite multiple distal lesions, may improve distal flow 
sufficiently to promote wound healing. Thus, this procedure may be recommended 
in selected patients suffering from ischemic tissue loss. However, during the 
first 6 months following PTA, diabetic patients should be followed carefully 
with Duplex as they are prone to early restenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00096-x
PMID: 11250173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Apr;9(2):133-40. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00109-5.

Endovascular stenting of superficial femoral artery stenosis and occlusions: 
results and risk factor analysis.

Cheng SW(1), Ting AC, Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Medical Centre, Queen Mary 
Hospital, 102 Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong, PR China. wkcheng@hku.hk

PURPOSE: To determine the early and midterm results of femoro-popliteal 
angioplasty with adjunctive stenting and to identify factors affecting early and 
continuing success.
METHODS: Sixty-nine consecutive balloon angioplasty procedures on the 
superficial femoral artery (SFA) were performed in 60 limbs and 55 patients in 
the operating theater. Fifty-two percent of lesions were occlusions, and 87% 
involved the distal half or the whole segment of the SFA. Immediate endovascular 
stenting was used in all procedures, involving the placement of 105 stents, with 
a mean stented length of 13.8 cm. Twenty-nine procedures (43%) were performed 
for critical ischemia. Three-monthly duplex ultrasound was used for follow up 
assessment, with stenosis of > 50% defined as the endpoint for failure. The 
patient demographic and biochemical data, and procedural details were correlated 
with success criteria according to Society of Vascular Surgery standards.
RESULTS: Initial technical success by intent to treat was 92%, with four 
procedure-related complications and no deaths. Initial success by anatomic, 
hemodynamic and clinical criteria were 98.3, 96.7 and 93.3% respectively (92.2, 
90.6 and 87.5% by intent to treat). Cumulative primary patency at 6, 12, and 24 
months was 73.1, 62.6 and 53.8%, and secondary patency 84.9, 72.1 and 72.1% 
correspondingly. Significant factors relating to inferior patency were 
occlusions, stented segment length > 10 cm, procedure in claudicants, and the 
use of the Memotherm stent.
CONCLUSIONS: Angioplasty and stenting of the superficial femoral artery has 
acceptable primary and secondary patency rates even in the presence of long 
stenosis and occlusions. A duplex surveillance program is recommended for early 
detection and timely treatment of restenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00109-5
PMID: 11250175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2001 Apr;12(2):159-66. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.012002159.x.

A comparison of hydroxylapatite coated implant retained fixed and removable 
mandibular prostheses over 4 to 6 years.

Tinsley D(1), Watson CJ, Russell JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Restorative Dentistry, Leeds Dental Institute, Leeds, UK. 
a.r.calvert@leeds.ac.uk

In a 6-year prospective clinical study, 181 hydroxylapatite coated endosseous 
dental implants were placed into the anterior mandible of 48 patients. 
Twenty-one patients were treated with fixed prostheses and 27 patients with an 
overdenture. When the implants were exposed all 181 had integrated. To date, 
there is 100% survival of all implants and they all retain a functioning 
prostheses. The initial results were very promising, in both groups the interval 
success was over 95% in the first 4 years of the study. However, by year 6, the 
interval success rates had fallen to 83% for both the fixed and removable 
groups. This study also compares the construction and maintenance complications 
for the two types of restorations. The clinical time taken, after implant 
exposure, to construct the prostheses was similar whether the fixed (mean of 8 
visits) or removable option (mean of 7 visits) was chosen. However, the 
removable restoration cost less than half the price of the fixed when both 
technical time and implant component costs were evaluated. Maintenance for both 
groups was higher than expected, but patients required more appointments in the 
removable group both in the first year and beyond. Regarding the prostheses 
itself, the incidence of remakes, relines and general adjustments was higher in 
the removable group. This study has shown that the overdenture offers an 
effective and initially a more economical alternative to the fixed prostheses, 
in the treatment of the edentulous mandible. However, long-term maintenance of 
such a prosthesis can be significant.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.012002159.x
PMID: 11251666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Public Health Nurs. 2001 Jan-Feb;18(1):13-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1446.2001.00013.x.

Cost analysis: concepts and application.

Brosnan CA(1), Swint JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA. cbronson@son1.nur.uth.tmc.edu

Public health nurses are increasingly called upon to justify the cost of care or 
to decide which of two alternative programs is more cost-effective. Cost studies 
can be complex and difficult to conduct, but an understanding of the basic 
techniques allows nurses to fully participate in planning, implementing, and 
evaluating programs that greatly impact the health of the community. This 
article defines some of the basic terms used in health economics, discusses 
standard methods of cost analysis, and provides an example of neonatal screening 
to illustrate methods of describing, measuring, and assigning a value to cost 
items.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1446.2001.00013.x
PMID: 11251868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Cancer. 2001 Mar 1;91(5):928-39.

De novo establishment and cost-effectiveness of Papanicolaou cytology screening 
services in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

Suba EJ(1), Nguyen CH, Nguyen BD, Raab SS; Viet/American Cervical Cancer 
Prevention Project.

Author information:
(1)Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Redwood City, California, USA. 
eric.suba@kp.org

Comment in
    Cancer. 2002 Apr 15;94(8):2312-4; author reply 2314-6.

BACKGROUND: Cervical carcinoma is the leading cause of cancer-related death 
among women in the developing world. The absence of cervical screening in 
Vietnam and other developing countries is due in large part to the perceived 
expense of implementing Papanicolaou cytology screening services, although, to 
the authors' knowledge, the cost-effectiveness of establishing such services has 
never been studied in a developing country.
METHODS: Using decision analytic methods, the authors assessed 
cost-effectiveness of Pap screening from a societal perspective in Vietnam, the 
world's 9th most populous developing country (estimated 1999 population, 79 
million). Outcomes measured included life expectancy, cervical carcinoma 
incidence, cost per woman, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Total costs to establish a nationwide 5-year interval Pap screening 
program in Vietnam will average less than $148,400 annually during the 10-year 
time period assumed necessary to develop the program and may be considerably 
