lower if only high risk geographic areas are targeted. Maintenance costs will 
average less than $0.092 annually per woman in the target screening population. 
Assuming 70% program participation, cervical carcinoma incidence will decrease 
from 26 in 100,000 to 14.8 in 100,000, and cost-effectiveness will be $725 per 
discounted life-year. Several assumptions used in this analysis constitute 
biases against the effectiveness of Pap screening, which in reality may be 
significantly more cost-effective than reported here.
CONCLUSIONS: Contrary to widespread belief, Pap screening in developing 
countries such as Vietnam is extraordinarily inexpensive and appears to be 
cost-effective. Because prospects are uncertain regarding useful alternatives to 
the Pap test, the evidence-based argument for establishing conventional Pap 
screening services in developing countries such as Vietnam is compelling. 
Population-based conventional Pap screening services have been established de 
novo in Vietnam and are now operational.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

PMID: 11251944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Feb 26;161(4):554-61. doi: 10.1001/archinte.161.4.554.

The cost-effectiveness of vaccination against Lyme disease.

Shadick NA, Liang MH, Phillips CB, Fossel K, Kuntz KM.

BACKGROUND: Vaccination against Lyme disease appears to be safe and effective; 
however, the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained with vaccination 
is unknown.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination compared with no vaccination in individuals 
living in endemic areas of Lyme disease. Our analysis encompassed a 10-year time 
horizon including a 2-year vaccination schedule with an additional year of 
vaccine effectiveness. The costs and probabilities of vaccination risk, 
compliance and efficacy, and Lyme disease clinical sequelae and treatment were 
estimated from the literature. Health-related quality-of-life weights of the 
various clinical sequelae of Lyme disease infection were obtained from a sample 
of 105 residents from Nantucket Island, Massachusetts.
RESULTS: Vaccinating 10 000 residents living in endemic areas with a probability 
of Lyme disease per season of 0.01 averted 202 cases of Lyme disease during a 
10-year period. The additional cost per QALY gained compared with no vaccination 
was $62 300. Vaccination cost $12 600/QALY gained for endemic areas with an 
attack rate of 2.5% per season, and $145 200/QALY gained for an attack rate of 
0.5%. Vaccinating individuals over an accelerated 2-month vaccination schedule 
improved the cost-effectiveness to $53 700/QALY gained. If a yearly booster shot 
is required for persisting efficacy, the marginal cost-effectiveness ratio 
increases to $72 700/QALY. The cost-effectiveness of vaccination was most 
sensitive to the Lyme disease treatment efficacy and assumptions about the 
persistence of vaccination effect.
CONCLUSION: Vaccination against Lyme disease appears only to be economically 
attractive for individuals who have a seasonal probability of Borrelia 
burgdorferi infection of greater than 1%.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.4.554
PMID: 11252114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Gend Specif Med. 2000 Apr;3(3):28-34.

Preventive gerontology: optimizing health and longevity for men and women across 
the lifespan.

Hazzard WR(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Puget Sound Health Care System (S-182-GEC), 1660 S Columbian Way, Seattle, 
WA 98108, USA. william.hazzard@med.va.gov

PMID: 11252824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Gend Specif Med. 1999 Sep-Oct;2(5):52-8.

The impact of emotions on cardiovascular health.

Williams R(1), Kiecolt-Glaser J, Legato MJ, Ornish D, Powell LH, Syme SL, 
Williams V.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Medicine Research Center, Department of Psychiatry, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Recent research suggests that the maintenance of emotional well-being is 
critical to cardiovascular health. People who feel lonely, depressed, and 
isolated have been found to be significantly more likely to suffer illnesses and 
to die prematurely of cardiovascular diseases than those who have adequate 
social support. Consequently, the development of appropriate interventions to 
improve the emotional health of people with certain psychosocial risk factors 
has become an important research goal. It is anticipated that such interventions 
will increase the life expectancy of people at risk and that it may also save 
millions of dollars in medical care costs. First, however, researchers in this 
field must identify specific emotional risk factors and must agree upon a 
working definition of "good emotional health." Such explicit definitions, as 
well as additional data, are essential to educating physicians and insurers so 
that consideration of emotional health can be integrated into basic medical 
care.

PMID: 11252836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. J Clin Ethics. 2000 Winter;11(4):323-7.

Physicians' responses to clinical scenarios involving life-threatening illness 
vary by patients' age.

Johnson MF(1), Kramer AM.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging Research Section, University of Colorado Health Sciences 
Center, Denver, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Ethics. 2000 Winter;11(4):328-33.

PMID: 11252915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2001 Feb;15(1):121-43. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70202-1.

Autologous stem cell transplantation for acute lymphocytic leukemia in adults.

Martin TG(1), Linker CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, University of Texas M. D. 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation remains an investigational treatment for 
adult ALL. Despite many anecdotal studies showing efficacy, the rarity of ALL 
has prevented the large randomized trials necessary to confirm effectiveness. 
Candidates for autoBMT include adult patients in first CR with adverse risk 
factors and all patients who have experienced disease relapse. It remains 
debatable which preparative regimen is optimal, whether purging is necessary, or 
if chemotherapy or immunotherapy administered after transplantation can decrease 
disease relapse. Overall, every effort should be made to enter ALL patients on 
well-designed randomized multi-institutional trials. These trials should compare 
autologous transplantation to newer more intensive chemotherapy regimens and 
should take into account the heterogeneity of ALL. A quality of life analysis 
should be performed as one high-dose treatment may be less toxic and better 
tolerated than multiple cycles of consolidation chemotherapy. Strategies aimed 
at enhancing an autologous graft-versus-leukemia effect after transplantation 
may enhance long-term survival. Many more studies are needed to further define 
the optimal role of autoBMT in adult ALL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70202-1
PMID: 11253604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2001 Feb;15(1):51-95, vi. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70200-8.

Lymphoblastic lymphoma.

Thomas DA(1), Kantarjian HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA. debthomas@mdanderson.org

Recent advances in the unique clinicopathologic entity of lymphoblastic lymphoma 
(and its variants) are discussed in this article, which details the natural 
history, molecular biology, prognosis, and outcome with various chemotherapy 
regimens. Improved outcome with the newer intensive chemotherapy regimens and 
the role of modalities such as autologous intensification, allogeneic bone 
marrow transplant, and radiotherapy are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70200-8
PMID: 11253609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2001 Feb;15(1):9-20. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70197-0.

High-dose anthracycline induction in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia.

Todeschini G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Verona University, Verona, Italy.

Many anthracyclines seem to be essential components of chemotherapy in adult ALL 
patients. The results of different studies suggest that 1. anthracyclines 
increase the probability of CR 2. complete response is obtained earlier with the 
use of high-dose anthracyclines 3. the optimal timing for anthracycline 
administration is probably the very early phase of the disease, because an 
earlier CR is a favorable prognostic indicator in ALL 4. high-dose DNM may be 
beneficial: given at high dosage in a dose-intensive way it can reduce the 
occurrence of relapse. There is evidence from randomized and nonrandomized 
studies that anthracyclines increase the CR rates when added to other classic 
components of ALL therapy. The dose and dose intensity of DNM during induction 
may influence duration of CR and long-term prognosis. Although anthracyclines in 
induction are only part of a complex program of therapy for adult ALL, the dose 
and dose intensity of anthracyclines may become important components of the 
armamentarium against this devastating disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70197-0
PMID: 11253610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2001 Feb;15(1):97-120. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70201-x.

Allogeneic stem cell transplantation for acute lymphocytic leukemia in adults.

Martin TG(1), Gajewski JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, University of Texas M. D. 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.

Acute lymphocytic leukemia remains a difficult disease to treat in adults. 
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation can cure some patients with ALL, but GVHD 
transplant-related mortality and disease relapse remain problematic. 
Immunotherapeutic approaches aimed at eliminating minimal residual disease and 
enhancing the GVL effect may decrease relapse rates and improve overall 
survival. Because of the rarity of this disease in adults, every new patient 
should be entered in well-designed, peer-reviewed, investigational trial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70201-x
PMID: 11253611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2000;34(6):54-6.

[Investigation of the methods of extension of useful life of nanofiltration 
membranes in washing water regenerating system].

[Article in Russian]

Shumilina IV, Krivobok SM, Maksimov ED.

Transport and selective characteristics of Russian nanofiltration membranes 
OPMN-K were investigated in order to find approaches to extend useful life of 
the membranes and, therefore, of the nanofiltration assembly and the washing 
water regenerating system at large. Hygienic cleansing agents as washing water 
ingredients pollute but not irreversibly impair the membranes. Flushing of 
membranes after regeneration of various model detergents was shown to recover 
the membrane permeability virtually up to original level.

PMID: 11253726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 20;134(6):440-50. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-6-200103200-00008.

Use of genotypic resistance testing to guide hiv therapy: clinical impact and 
cost-effectiveness.

Weinstein MC(1), Goldie SJ, Losina E, Cohen CJ, Baxter JD, Zhang H, Kimmel AD, 
Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, 718 Huntington 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02115-5924, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 20;134(6):475-7.

BACKGROUND: Genotypic sequencing for drug-resistant strains of HIV can guide the 
choice of antiretroviral therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of genotypic resistance testing for 
patients acquiring drug resistance through failed treatment (secondary 
resistance) and those infected with resistant virus (primary resistance).
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis with an HIV simulation model incorporating 
CD4 cell count and HIV RNA level as predictors of disease progression.
DATA SOURCES: Published randomized trials and data from the Multicenter AIDS 
Cohort Study, the national AIDS Cost and Services Utilization Survey, the Red 
Book, and an institutional cost-accounting system.
TARGET POPULATION: HIV-infected patients in the United States with baseline CD4 
counts of 0.250 x 10(9) cells/L.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Genotypic resistance testing and clinical judgment, compared with 
clinical judgment alone, in two contexts: after initial treatment failure 
(secondary resistance testing) and before initiation of antiretroviral therapy 
(primary resistance testing).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and 
cost-effectiveness in dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Secondary resistance testing increased life 
expectancy by 3 months, at a cost of $17 900 per QALY gained. The 
cost-effectiveness of primary resistance testing was $22 300 per QALY gained 
with a 20% prevalence of primary resistance but increased to $69 000 per QALY 
gained with 4% prevalence.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The cost-effectiveness ratio for secondary 
resistance testing remained under $25 000 per QALY gained, even when 
effectiveness and cost of testing and antiretroviral therapy, quality-of-life 
weights, and discount rate were varied.
CONCLUSIONS: Genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing following 
antiretroviral failure is cost-effective. Primary resistance testing also seems 
to be reasonably cost-effective and will become more so as the prevalence of 
primary resistance increases.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-6-200103200-00008
PMID: 11255519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 20;134(6):475-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-6-200103200-00012.

HIV resistance testing in clinical practice: a Qaly-fied success.

Saag MS.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Mar 20;134(6):440-50.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-6-200103200-00012
PMID: 11255523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Br Med Bull. 2000;56(3):704-16. doi: 10.1258/0007142001903292.

Overview of advances in contraception.

Baird DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh, Contraceptive 
Development Network, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 37 Chalmers 
Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.

For most of man's existence, natural checks on fertility ensured that the 
numbers of the population more or less matched the resources available. It is 
only in the last few generations that man has so dominated the natural 
environment that the numbers of people in the world have increased 
exponentially, unchecked by natural disasters such as disease and starvation. 
Coincidental with extended life expectancy, the fertility rate of individual 
women has increased with the advent of bottle feeding and the decline in the 
contraceptive effects of breast feeding. Contraception has become increasingly 
important to individuals, allowing them to break free from the 'burden of 
excessive fertility'.

DOI: 10.1258/0007142001903292
PMID: 11255555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Aust Health Rev. 2000;23(4):176-80.

The future shape of primary health care in New Zealand.

Davies P(1), Booth M.

Author information:
(1)New Zealand Ministry of Health.

The Minister of Health in New Zealand earlier this year released a discussion 
document titled "The Future Shape of Primary Health Care" which outlines some 
far-reaching proposals for the provision of primary health care services within 
New Zealand. This article sets the discussion document in the context of primary 
health care within New Zealand by examining current arrangements for primary 
health care, previous arrangements and the proposals outlined in the discussion 
document.

PMID: 11256265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Ital Heart J. 2001 Feb;2(2):107-14.

"Natural histories" of mitral valve prolapse. Influence of patient selection on 
cardiovascular event rates.

Zuppiroli A(1), Mori F, Favilli S, Dolara A, Roman MJ, Fishman D, Devereux RB.

Author information:
(1)II Cardiology Unit, Hospital of Careggi, Florence, Italy.

BACKGROUND: In previous studies the reported incidence of cardiovascular events 
among mitral valve prolapse patients has differed more than 10 fold. We 
endeavored to determine the relation between the clinical features and mode of 
ascertainment of mitral valve prolapse and the resulting event rate.
METHODS: Between January 1979 and August 1996, 275 patients (129-47% men, 
146-53% women, mean age 43 +/- 19 years), were followed for a mean of 98 months 
after evaluation in a referral center for valvular heart disease. Comparative 
data were obtained from a separate, less selected population consisting of 316 
patients.
RESULTS: A total of 65 events occurred (2.9/100 patient-years): 46 (2.0/100 
patient-years) mitral surgery, 12 cardiac deaths (0.5/100 patient-years), 6 
neurologic ischemia (0.26/100 patient-years), and 1 infective endocarditis 
(0.04/100 patient-years). The overall event rate varied significantly according 
to demographic, clinical and echocardiographic variables (all p < 0.0001). It 
was higher among males (odds ratio-OR 2.1), subjects > or = 45 years of age (OR 
14.7), those with a holosystolic murmur (OR 25.9), an enlarged left ventricle 
(OR 13.5) or left atrium (OR 34.9) and those with 3-4+ mitral regurgitation at 
color Doppler echocardiography (OR 40.0). It was lower in those with an audible 
mid-systolic click (OR 0.05). These ORs closely resembled those we reported 
previously in a less selected population. At multivariate analysis, male gender 
(p = 0.013), severe Doppler mitral regurgitation (p = 0.0048), and left atrial 
enlargement (p = 0.046) were all independent predictors of events.
CONCLUSIONS: In a population of mitral valve prolapse patients, including many 
with significant mitral regurgitation at baseline, we identified similar 
predictors of events but an overall event rate nearly 3 times higher than that 
we previously reported for relatively unselected patients or family members in 
New York City (1/100 patient-years). Therefore, the impact of patient selection 
on the prevalence of mitral regurgitation, older age and male gender strongly 
affects the adversity of the "natural history" of mitral valve prolapse.

PMID: 11256537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2001 Feb;52(6):539-44. doi:
10.1016/S0940-2993(01)80012-9.

Spectrum and age-related incidence of spontaneous tumours in a colony of 
Han:AURA hamsters.

Kamino K(1), Tillmann T, Mohr U.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Germany.

One-hundred-and-forty-four male and 184 female untreated Syrian golden hamsters 
(strain Han:AURA) were kept for life under standard laboratory conditions. They 
were examined with regard to spontaneously occurring tumours in relation to 
their survival periods. The mean survival rate of the males was 106 +/- 26 weeks 
and that of the females 97 +/- 20 weeks. Tumours were found in 71% of males and 
67% of females. Adenomas and carcinomas of the adrenal glands were the most 
frequently observed tumours in both sexes (male: 66%; female: 38%) and in the 
early stages of life. Malignant lymphoma (8%), adenomas and carcinomas of 
pancreatic islet-cells (8%) and papillomatous benign and malignant squamous cell 
tumours of the forestomach (7%) showed relatively high incidences in males, 
whilst in females, leiomyoma (10%) and endometrial adenocarcinoma (7%) of the 
uterus and adenomas and carcinomas in the pars distalis of the pituitary gland 
(9%) occurred frequently.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(01)80012-9
PMID: 11256756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Menopause. 2001 Summer;8(2):111-9. doi: 10.1097/00042192-200103000-00006.

Factors related to sexual function in postmenopausal women with a history of 
breast cancer.

Greendale GA(1), Petersen L, Zibecchi L, Ganz PA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1687, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The normal life expectancy of survivors of early-stage breast cancer 
(BCS) underscores the need to address long-term quality of life issues in these 
women. Sexual dysfunction persists after breast cancer treatment, despite 
recovery in other domains.
OBJECTIVE: To examine associations between a broad array of characteristics and 
sexuality in BCS.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixty-one postmenopausal BCS who were participants in a 
randomized, controlled trial of nonhormonal interventions for menopause symptoms 
and who had a partnered, intimate relationship.
METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of baseline trial data. Outcomes were 
standardized scales of sexual interest, dysfunction, and satisfaction. Candidate 
predictors included demographic, anatomical, medical, psychological, 
sociocultural, and hormonal characteristics. Forward, stepwise regression was 
used.
RESULTS: Relationship quality, vaginal discomfort, education, and hot flashes 
were each associated with two of the three domains of sexuality assessed. Ten 
other factors entered predictive models: age, time since diagnosis, breast 
conservation, comorbidity, urinary incontinence, perceived health, body image, 
bioavailable testosterone, luteinizing hormone, and sex hormone binding 
globulin. Each of these 10 factors was associated with only one sexuality 
domain.
CONCLUSIONS: In this small sample of BCS, we found multiple correlates of 
sexuality. Most seem to impact uniquely on individual domains of sexual 
function. Several characteristics are modifiable and could be targets for 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/00042192-200103000-00006
PMID: 11256871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Circulation. 2001 Mar 20;103(11):1535-41. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.103.11.1535.

Prognosis after aortic valve replacement with a bioprosthesis: predictions based 
on meta-analysis and microsimulation.

Puvimanasinghe JP(1), Steyerberg EW, Takkenberg JJ, Eijkemans MJ, van Herwerden 
LA, Bogers AJ, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Bioprostheses are widely used as an aortic valve substitute, but 
knowledge about prognosis is still incomplete. The purpose of this study was to 
provide insight into the age-related life expectancy and actual risks of 
reoperation and valve-related events of patients after aortic valve replacement 
with a porcine bioprosthesis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a meta-analysis of 9 selected reports on 
stented porcine bioprostheses, including 5837 patients with a total follow-up of 
31 874 patient-years. The annual rates of valve thrombosis, thromboembolism, 
hemorrhage, and nonstructural dysfunction were 0.03%, 0.87%, 0.38%, and 0.38%, 
respectively. The annual rate of endocarditis was estimated at 0.68% for >6 
months of implantation and was 5 times as high during the first 6 months. 
Structural valve deterioration was described with a Weibull model that 
incorporated lower risks for older patients. These estimates were used to 
parameterize, calibrate, and validate a mathematical microsimulation model. The 
model was used to predict life expectancy and actual risks of reoperation and 
valve-related events after implantation for patients of different ages. For a 
65-year-old male, these figures were 11.3 years, 28%, and 47%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of meta-analysis with microsimulation enabled a 
detailed insight into the prognosis after aortic valve replacement with a 
bioprosthesis for patients of different ages. This information will be useful 
for patient counseling and clinical decision making. It also could serve as a 
baseline for the evaluation of newer valve types.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.103.11.1535
PMID: 11257081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. FEBS Lett. 2001 Mar 16;492(3):187-92. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02212-8.

Anticoagulants and inhibitors of platelet aggregation derived from leeches.

Salzet M(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Endocrinologie et Immunité des Annélides, UPRESA CNRS 8017, 
Université des Sciences et Technologies de Lille, SN3, F-59655 Cedex, Villeneuve 
d'Ascq, France. michel.salzet@univ-lille1.fr

Increased life expectancy is associated with aging populations in the developed 
countries, and we can expect an increased incidence of cardiovascular and 
inflammatory diseases and cancers. A priority for medical research is to reduce 
such morbidity. Leeches have been demonstrated to be a useful source of drugs to 
treat cardiovascular diseases, as they have evolved highly specific mechanisms 
to feed on their hosts by blocking blood coagulation. Powerful molecules acting 
at different points in the coagulation cascade or in the inhibition of platelet 
aggregation have been purified from these animals. Moreover, clinical trials 
confirm their potential to treat cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02212-8
PMID: 11257492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Health Promot Int. 2001 Mar;16(1):55-64. doi: 10.1093/heapro/16.1.55.

Why do Swedish-speaking Finns have longer active life? An area for social 
capital research.

Hyyppä MT(1), Mäki J.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Centre of Kela (The Social Insurance Institution of 
Finland), FIN20720 Turku, Finland. markku.hyyppa@kela.memonet.fi

Comment in
    Health Promot Int. 2002 Sep;17(3):287-90; author reply 291.

We performed ecological and individual register studies to compare 
disability-free life expectancies and disability pensions among Swedish-speaking 
and Finnish-speaking Finns residing on the western coast of Finland. The study 
was conducted to establish our assumption that the Swedish-speaking ethnic 
minority has a longer active life than the Finnish-speaking majority and to show 
that this disparity can be seen in a limited geographical area with similar 
socio-economic and health service structures. We suggest that the observed 
disparities in active life and in mortality depend on differences in the extent 
of social capital. A detailed characterization of the social capital and its 
impact on the health of the Swedish-speaking individuals is in progress.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/16.1.55
PMID: 11257853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Herz. 2001 Feb;26(1):84-8. doi: 10.1007/pl00002010.

[Cardiac resynchronization therapy in terminal heart failure: current status and 
prospects].

[Article in German]

Sack S(1), Heinzel F, Dagres N, Wieneke H, Erbel R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Zentrum für Innere Medizin, Universitätsklinikum 
Essen. stefan.sack@uni-essen.de

BACKGROUND: With regard to epidemiological aspects, heart failure has been shown 
an increasing incidence in constrast to coronary artery disease which counts 
decreasingly due to secondary and primary prevention. The present data show an 
incidence for heart failure of 2% per year. 4-5 million people are newly 
affected by the disease. The prognosis is limited after diagnosis is confirmed. 
According to the US Framingham study, the median life expectancy is 3.2 and 5.4 
after diagnosis for male and female, respectively. For patients in an advanced 
stage of the disease the mortality rate is 27% within 3 years. AV SEQUENTIAL 
PACING: The introduction of AV sequential pacing by the Austrian group of 
Margarete Hochleitner in 1992 showed an improved left ventricular systolic 
function, an improved clinical benefit in terms of NYHA classification, an 
enhanced left ventricular ejection fraction, an improved systolic and diastolic 
blood pressure, a reduction of the heart-chest relationship as well as a 
reduction of the resting hart rate and the echocardiographic dimension 
parameters.
STUDIES: First experimental approach for biventricular stimulation, which means 
the simultaneous activation of the right and the left chamber, relied on the 
observation of a distorted ventricular activation due to the presence of a 
bundle branch block. The bundle branch block is a result of the dilatation of 
the myocardial fibers, death of myocardial cells which are replaced by fibrous 
tissue. Resynchronization of both ventricles was associated with an improved 
left ventricular function and improved diastolic relaxation. Clinical studies of 
patients with heart failure, severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction, and 
left bundle branch block have shown that systolic function can be improved by 
electrically stimulating the site of late activation. The magnitude of the 
improvement seems to be associated with the duration of the intrinsic surface 
QRS complex and whether the ventricle ipsilateral with the conduction defect is 
stimulated. The effect of ventricular resynchronization therapy was optimized by 
timing of atrioventricular activation associated with a decrease in both 
systolic and diastolic mitral regurgitation.
CONCLUSION: The prognosis of patients with end-stage heart failure is limited by 
two determinants: myocardial pump failure and sudden (arrhythmogenic) cardiac 
death. Due to the fact that the incidence for sudden cardiac death is 
considerably high in patients with end-stage heart failure it is reasonable to 
include the implantation of cardioverters/defibrillaters (ICD) in the concept of 
biventricular stimulation.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00002010
PMID: 11258115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Alcohol Alcohol. 2001 Mar-Apr;36(2):122-30. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/36.2.122.

Alcohol use inventory: screening and assessment of first-time 
driving-while-impaired offenders. II. Typology and predictive validity.

Chang I(1), Lapham SC, C'de Baca J, Davis JW.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Health Research Centre of the Southwest, 6624 Gulton Court NE, 
Albuquerque, NM 87109, USA.

This study evaluated the use of Alcohol Use Inventory (AUI) for 
driving-while-impaired (DWI) screening, by determining whether DWI offenders (n 
= 1644), grouped according to their reported alcohol involvement on the AUI, 
would have different rates of recidivism in a 5-year follow-up. Cluster analysis 
using the six second-order scales produced six groups (clusters 1-6) described 
as the Low-Profile (50%), Alcohol-Preoccupation (14%), Enhanced (22%), 
Enhanced-Disrupt (9%), Anxious-Disrupt (3%), and High-Profile (1%) types. They 
were characterized by different sociodemographic profiles. Members of cluster 4 
were associated with the highest DWI recidivism rate (40%), committing one or 
more further DWI, and clusters 5 and 6 were associated with the highest rate of 
committing two or more DWIs. Rates of subsequent traffic convictions and crashes 
were, however, not statistically different among the clusters. Predictors of DWI 
recidivism included male gender, young age, less-educated, high blood-alcohol 
concentration at arrest, and clusters of 3 and 4. Different typologies indicated 
that the needs for treatment might be different. Evaluators should keep in mind 
the strength of AUI, use risk factors identified in the study, and take measures 
of test-taking defensiveness to enhance overall predictive validity.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/36.2.122
PMID: 11259208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. J Gerontol Nurs. 2000 Jul;26(7):8-17. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-20000701-09.

Maintaining health in well older adults: initiatives for schools of nursing and 
The John A. Hartford Foundation for the 21st century.

Belza B(1), Baker MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biobehavioral Nursing and Health Systems, University of 
Washington, Box 357266, Seattle, WA, 98195-7266, USA. basiab@u.washington.edu

In the past century, there has been a substantial increase in the number of 
older Americans and an increase in their life expectancy at birth. These trends 
will continue over the next century, marked by further increases in active life 
expectancy and marked changes in the racial and ethnic composition of the older 
population. While nursing has traditionally focused on the care of frail older 
individuals, most older adults--well older adults--enjoy a relatively high level 
of health and function. In this article, well older adults are defined as those 
with the physical, mental, social, and spiritual function or resources to meet 
the needs of everyday living. Recommendations for improving care of well older 
adults are provided, including reconceptualizing ways of thinking, expanding 
practice initiatives, building the science of nursing research in geriatrics and 
gerontology, developing education and training opportunities, and rethinking 
individual safety within the context of autonomy.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-20000701-09
PMID: 11261071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2000 Jul-Aug;4(4):153-8.

Astrocytomas: the clinical picture.

Strickler R(1), Phillips ML.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee Bowld Hospital, 951 Court Avenue, 1st Floor PCS, 
Memphis, TN 38103, USA. Strru@meditech.bowld.utmem.edu

Erratum in
    Clin J Oncol Nurs 2001 Jan-Feb;5(1):6.

Comment in
    Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2000 Sep-Oct;4(5):198.

An astrocytoma is one of the most common brain tumors. Approximately 16,500 
people will be diagnosed with brain cancer this year in the United States; of 
these, an estimated 13,000 will die. Astrocytomas originate from astrocytes in 
the central nervous system, and the maximum average life expectancy following an 
astrocytoma diagnosis is 18 months. Intracranial tumors often are devastating 
because of their growth and spread to vital centers, where they alter neurologic 
functions that make patients "people." Surgery, radiation, biotherapy, and 
chemotherapy are among the most common regimens used to treat these 
life-threatening intracranial tumors. Nurses caring for these patients play a 
vital role in providing pertinent interventions, emotional support, and 
end-of-life care.

PMID: 11261094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Acta Psychiatr Scand Suppl. 2000;(407):96-9. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0447.2000.00019.x.

The schizophrenic patient in the somatic hospital.

Muck-Jørgensen P(1), Mors O, Mortensen PB, Ewald H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatric Demography, Institute for Basic Research, 
Psychiatric Hospital in Aarhus, Risskov, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: There is an increased risk in schizophrenia for premature death from 
illnesses in almost all organic systems. The present study analyses the Rate 
Ratio (RR) for schizophrenic patients' admissions to somatic departments in 
Denmark.
METHOD: 20000 schizophrenic patients were identified in the Danish Psychiatric 
Central Register and 200000 sex- and age-matched controls were identified in the 
Danish Central Person Register. Both groups were searched for in the Danish 
National Patient Register in which admissions to all somatic departments are 
registered. Pulmonary and cardiovascular diseases are used as examples.
RESULTS: RR is increased for several diseases, especially infectious, up to a 
maximum of RR = 4.15 for severe heart failures and decreased to as low as RR = 
0.35 for atherosclerotic diseases of the brain vessels.
CONCLUSION: It seems that individuals with schizophrenia are rarely treated for 
their physical illness in its early, less severe phases, but more likely in its 
acute phases when the disease is severe, life-threatening or painful.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0447.2000.00019.x
PMID: 11261651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2001 Feb;8(1):39-56. doi: 10.1076/opep.8.1.39.1540.

Gender and blindness: a meta-analysis of population-based prevalence surveys.

Abou-Gareeb I(1), Lewallen S, Bassett K, Courtright P.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Epidemiologic & International Ophthalmology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Many individual surveys of blindness have reported slightly higher 
rates of blindness for women. In order to gain a continent-by-continent and 
global sense of the burden of blindness by sex we conducted a meta-analysis of 
published, population-based surveys of blindness.
METHOD: Published reports were collected using a predetermined search protocol 
involving commercial electronic databases, hand-searching of references and 
direct contact with researchers. Studies were included that were 
population-based, included clinical examination and had a minimum sample size of 
1000. The studies were critically appraised to determine methodological rigour. 
Data were analysed using the Cochrane Collaboration Review Manager.
RESULTS: The overall odds ratio (age-adjusted) of blind women to men is 1.43 
(95% CI 1.33-1.53), ranging from 1.39 (95% CI 1.20-1.61) in Africa, 1.41 (95% CI 
1.29-1.54) in Asia, and 1.63 (95% CI 1.30-2.05) in industrialised countries. 
There was good homogeneity of findings from Africa, Asia, and the industrialised 
countries. Globally, women bear excess blindness compared to men. In these 
surveys, overall, women account for 64.5% of all blind people. The excess of 
blindness in women was marked among the elderly and not due only to differential 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The excess burden of blindness among women is likely due to a number 
of factors, which are different in industrialised countries compared to 
developing countries. Particular attention to gender differences in blindness is 
needed in the creation of targets for blindness reduction and in the development 
of interventions.

DOI: 10.1076/opep.8.1.39.1540
PMID: 11262681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2001 Feb;10(1):61-7. doi:
10.1097/00008469-200102000-00007.

Stomach cancer-related mortality.

Sun J(1), Misumi J, Shimaoka A, Aoki K, Esaki F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Hygiene, Faculty of Medicine, Oita Medical 
University, Japan.

In Japan stomach cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. 
We analysed the annual mortality rate of stomach cancer in relation to age, 
gender and life expectancy in Japan between 1970 and 1995. The adjusted stomach 
cancer-related mortality rates decreased from 88.9 in 1970 to 45.4 per 100,000 
in 1995 in males and from 46.5 to 18.5 per 100,000 in females. The male-female 
ratio for stomach cancer-related mortality in all ages was 1.9-2.5 during this 
25-year period, and the mortality rate was higher in females than in males at 
young age. The negative contribution to life expectancy for stomach cancer in 
males was 0.65 years and 0.42 years in females, which is consistent with a 
higher mortality rate in males. This negative contribution was 41.8% of total 
cancer in 1970 and 39.4% in 1995 in males and 34.4% and 16.0%, respectively, in 
females. Our results demonstrated the need to take into consideration the 
characteristics of stomach cancer in young women and the effects of ageing when 
designing programmes aimed at prevention and control of this malignancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00008469-200102000-00007
PMID: 11263592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Evolution. 2001 Jan;55(1):81-92. doi: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb01274.x.

Cryptic reproductive isolation in the Drosophila simulans species complex.

Price CS(1), Kim CH, Gronlund CJ, Coyne JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, The University of Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA.

Forms of reproductive isolation that act after copulation but before 
fertilization are potentially important components of speciation, but are 
studied only infrequently. We examined postmating, prezygotic reproductive 
isolation in three hybridizations within the Drosophila simulans species 
complex. We allowed females to mate only once, observed and timed all 
copulations, dissected a subset of the females to track the storage and 
retention of sperm, examined the number and hatchability of eggs laid after 
insemination, counted all progeny produced, and measured the longevity of mated 
females. Each of the three hybridizations is characterized by a different set of 
cryptic barriers to heterospecific fertilization. When D. simulans females mate 
with D. sechellia males, few heterospecific sperm are transferred, even during 
long copulations. In contrast, copulations of D. simulans females with D. 
mauritiana males are often too short to allow sperm transfer. Those that are 
long enough to allow insemination, however, involve the transfer of many sperm, 
but only a fraction of these heterospecific sperm are stored by females, who 
also lay fewer eggs than do D. simulans females mated with conspecific males. 
Finally, when D. mauritiana females mate with D. simulans males, sperm are 
transferred and stored in abundance, but are lost rapidly from the reproductive 
tract and are therefore used inefficiently. These results add considerably to 
the list of reproductive isolating mechanisms in this well-studied clade and 
possibly to the list of evolutionary processes that could contribute to their 
reproductive isolation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb01274.x
PMID: 11263748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Exp Mol Pathol. 2001 Apr;70(2):103-19. doi: 10.1006/exmp.2000.2340.

Coronary heart disease, hypercholesterolemia, and atherosclerosis. I. False 
premises.

Stehbens WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Wellington School of 
Medicine, Wellington, New Zealand.

Lipid-rich caseous debris of advanced lesions stimulated interest in the role of 
cholesterol and lipids in atherosclerosis. Lipid-containing arterial lesions in 
cholesterol-overfed animals (cholesterolosis) and xanthomatous vascular lesions 
in subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia were then misrepresented as being 
atherosclerotic and led to the development of the hypercholesterolemic/lipid 
hypothesis. It is untenable that cholesterol, an essential multifunctional 
metabolite, is pathogenic at all blood levels and hypercholesterolemia is not 
prerequisite for human or experimental atherosclerosis. Serum cholesterol levels 
display a poor correlation with atherosclerosis at autopsy and with unreliable 
national coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality in each sex. Atherosclerosis 
topography and its iatrogenic production in humans and experimentally in 
herbivores by hemodynamic means both support a biomechanical causation and 
preclude causality by any circulating humoral factor. CHD, not a specific 
disease, is a nonspecific complication of many diseases including 
atherosclerosis and cannot be equated with coronary atherosclerosis due to 
differences in pathology and pathogenesis. Thus, extrapolations from CHD risk 
factors or correlations with fallacious vital statistics to atherosclerosis are 
invalid. It follows that the hypercholesterolemic/lipid hypothesis evolving from 
false premises, misuse of CHD, scientific misrepresentation, and fallacious data 
has no legitimate basis.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exmp.2000.2340
PMID: 11263954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Exp Mol Pathol. 2001 Apr;70(2):120-39. doi: 10.1006/exmp.2000.2339.

Coronary heart disease, hypercholesterolemia, and atherosclerosis. II. 
Misrepresented data.

Stehbens WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Wellington School of 
Medicine, Wellington, New Zealand.

Early development of the hypercholesterolemic/lipid hypothesis of 
atherosclerosis was based on false premises including fallacious national 
mortality rates and misrepresentation of the vascular lesions in 
cholesterol-overfed animals and monogenic hypercholesterolemias (MH). 
Nonspecific coronary heart disease (CHD) was inappropriately used as a surrogate 
of atherosclerosis, unmeasured and unseen. Causality was assumed and implied by 
classifying statistical correlates of CHD as atherogenic risk factors. These 
faults were compounded by methodological errors, pooling of all causes of CHD, a 
large clinical diagnostic error, biased age selection of cohorts leading to 
confounding by age and MH, and emphasis on population and cohort mean values 
which conceal heterogeneity within cohorts and are inapplicable to individuals. 
Overzealous investigators neglected to review the premises and relevant 
pathology on which the hypothesis was based or to reconcile valid criticisms, 
inconsistencies, and invalidation of CHD epidemiology by pathological, 
experimental, and iatrogenic evidence. Statistical data, pertaining to CHD but 
with no scientific applicability to atherosclerosis, progressively imparted to 
readers a misleading perception of the relationship of serum cholesterol to CHD. 
Concurrently the statistical serum cholesterol range was unjustifiably 
abandoned. The evidence establishes that the lipid hypothesis of atherosclerosis 
lacks scientific basis.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exmp.2000.2339
PMID: 11263955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Clin Transplant. 2001 Apr;15(2):89-94. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-0012.2001.150202.x.

Influence of diabetes mellitus on patient and graft survival in recipients of 
kidney transplantation.

Revanur VK(1), Jardine AG, Kingsmore DB, Jaques BC, Hamilton DH, Jindal RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Western Infirmary, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
UK.

AIMS: To investigate the outcomes in patients who have pre-existing diabetes and 
those who develop post-transplant diabetes mellitus (PTDM).
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 939 patients who received a 
first functioning renal transplant in the cyclosporine (CyA) era between 1984 
and 1999.
RESULTS: Sixty-six (7%) patients had renal failure due to insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (IDDM) and 7 (0.8%) patients due to non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Ten (1.1%) patients had coexistent diabetes and 48 
(5.1%) recipients developed PTDM. The mean graft survival for the patients with 
PTDM was 9.7 yr versus 11.3 yr for the non-diabetic patients, while mean graft 
survival was 10.1 yr for patients with IDDM and 2.9 yr with NIDDM and 8.3 yr for 
those with coexistent diabetes (p=ns). However, there was a statistically 
significant difference in patient survival between patients who developed PTDM 
and in those who did not develop this complication. The mean survivals of 
patients with IDDM, NIDDM, coexistent diabetics and PTDM were 8.4, 3.7, 8.6 and 
10.3 yr, respectively. The mean survival of the patients without pre-existing 
diabetes or PTDM was 12.8 yr (p<0.001). The survival of patients older than 55 
yr with PTDM was no different to the control group. However, in those younger 
than 55 yr, PTDM was associated with a higher risk of death (relative risk of 
2.54, p<0.001). Fifty percent of patients with IDDM developed acute rejection 
episodes, whereas rejection rate was 57.1% in NIDDM group, 50.0% in the PTDM 
group, 20.0% in the coexistent diabetes group and 44.3% in the control group 
(p=ns).
CONCLUSION: Patient survival, but not graft survival, was adversely affected by 
both pre-existing diabetes and by PTDM, particularly in those with an age less 
than 55 yr.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0012.2001.150202.x
PMID: 11264633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Minerva Chir. 2000 Nov;55(11):771-8.

[Surgery in the cirrhotic patient. Prognosis and risk factors].

[Article in Italian]

Pisani Ceretti A(1), Cordovana A, Pinto A, Spina GP.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Chirurgia 2o, Azienda Ospedaliera, Fatebenefratelli e Oftalmico, 
Milano.

Patients with cirrhosis have reduced life expectancy. Surgery is often 
associated with clinical decompensation in this group of patients. The purpose 
of this paper is to study the surgical risk in cirrhotic patients undergoing 
nonderivative operations. Unfortunately, most of the studies in the literature 
about this problem are retrospective reviews with limitations. The conditions 
increasing surgical risk in cirrhotic patients are analysed. These include 
changes in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of various drugs, altered 
hemostasis, poor resistance to infections, water retention, suture line 
insufficiency, chronic renal failure and congestive heart failure. Assessment of 
the disease stage in cirrhosis is very important, because the severity of 
hepatic abnormalities influences the prognosis. The Child-Pugh classification 
has been used extensively to risk-stratify patients with cirrhosis. However, the 
disregard for cardiorespiratory, renal, electrolyte balance and acid-base status 
limits its predictive accuracy. Recently a new scoring system, the Acute 
Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE III), has been introduced and 
seems to be superior to Child-Pugh for prognosticating short term survival of 
cirrhotic patients. In conclusion, surgery can be done safely only in cirrhotic 
patients with a good hepatic function. On the contrary, in patients with 
advanced cirrhosis, surgery causes a very high mortality. Finally, the patients 
with moderate hepatic failure can be operated only after a careful study of the 
disease and an adequate correction of the reversible risk factors.

PMID: 11265150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
