

760. Postgrad Med. 2001 Mar;109(3):167-70, 173-4, 178. doi:
10.3810/pgm.2001.03.1770.

Making a decision about ERT/HRT. Evidence to consider in initiating and 
continuing protective therapy.

Nerhood RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Joan C. Edwards School of Medicine, Marshall University, Huntington, West 
Virginia, USA. nerhood@marshall.edu

Alzheimer's disease, CAD, and osteoporosis significantly affect the health and 
well-being of senior citizens in the United States. The fact that women have a 
longer life expectancy than men has led to the hypothesis that estrogen in some 
way imparts protection against these disease processes. Available data on the 
possible negative effect of estrogen on the development and progression of 
Alzheimer's disease are provocative but inconclusive. Thus, for the time being, 
they must remain no more than the basis of an attractive hypothesis. In 
contrast, available data suggest that ERT and HRT can reduce the risk of CAD, 
but this effect seems more preventive than therapeutic. Addition of a 
progestational agent to an estrogen regimen may blunt this effect. Although the 
medical literature contains very few data that address the issue of duration of 
therapy, logic would suggest that cessation of therapy would result in the loss 
of a protective effect. With regard to osteoporosis, ERT and HRT have clear 
beneficial effects in that they increase BMD and decrease fracture risk. There 
is good evidence that duration of therapy may be more important than dosage and 
that these effects rapidly dissipate with cessation of therapy. Finally, as with 
all medical interventions, ERT or HRT must be individualized for each patient. 
Although actual health hazards are few, adverse effects are common and the 
emotion-charged, ever-evolving issue of the negative impact of ERT and HRT on 
breast cancer risk must always be considered before such therapy is instituted.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2001.03.1770
PMID: 11265355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Postgrad Med. 2001 Mar;109(3):9-11. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2001.03.883.

The case for an ancient cause. Healthy People 2010.

Ambrose P, Wykoff RF, Lurie N.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2001.03.883
PMID: 11265367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2001 Feb;94(2):166-70.

[Economic study of carvedilol in heart failure. A cost effectiveness study in 
France].

[Article in French]

Lévy P(1), Dubois-Randé JL, Cohen-Solal A, Lévy E.

Author information:
(1)LEGOS, université Paris-IX Dauphine, place du Maréchal-de-Lattre-de-Tassigny, 
75775 Paris.

A programme of four phase III clinical trials carried out in the USA on 1094 
patients showed that Carvedilol, associated with the usual bitherapy and 
eventually with digitalis, reduced the mortality and number of hospital 
admissions of patients with cardiac failure. These results, transposed to the 
French population, may be used to evaluate the economic advantages of Carvedilol 
by developing a cost-effectiveness study which consists in relating the direct 
expenses (drugs and hospital admissions) of each of the two strategies, with or 
without Carvedilol, to their respective mortalities. Hospital expenses were 
estimated with respect to the H.M.G. corresponding to each hospital stay at 
1997-1998 values. The cost in the Carvedilol group was 2,823 FF per patient 
(including 1,491 FF for the drug itself) but 2,056 FF were economised in 
hospital expenses. With an increased cost of 767 FF but a 50% reduction in 
mortality corresponding to a difference in mortality of 45@1000, the 
cost-effectiveness of Carvedilol was 17,040 per life saved and 2,130 FF per 
additional year of life expectancy. A study of the sensitivity produced even 
more favourable results of Carvedilol. An evaluation of hospital expenses on the 
basis of AP-HP data indicates that the addition of Carvedilol is associated with 
a 4,425 FF reduction in hospital expenses, which makes it a cost saving 
strategy.

PMID: 11265558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. J Indian Med Assoc. 2000 Nov;98(11):703-4, 706-9.

Prevention of coronary heart disease among Indians: focus on primary prevention.

Gupta R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Cardiology, Monilek Hospital and Research Centre, 
Jaipur.

Epidemiological transition with increasing life expectancy and demographic 
shifts in population age-profile combined with lifestyle related increases in 
the levels of cardiovascular risk factors is accelerating coronary heart disease 
(CHD) epidemic in India. As prospective cohort studies for evaluation of 
coronary risk factors do not exist, urban-rural differences in prevalence of 
coronary risk factors and case-control studies provide important information 
regarding coronary risk factors that need prevention to control the CHD 
epidemic. The risk factors more in urban Indians or associated with increased 
risk in case-control studies are: Sedentary lifestyle, smoking, truncal obesity, 
hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, impaired glucose tolerance, insulin 
resistance and diabetes. Primordial prevention ie, prevention of risk factors 
can be achieved by encouragement of positive health behaviour and promotion of 
the concept of health as a social value. Special target groups are children, 
adolescents, family unit, under-privileged and high-risk groups. Behavioural and 
environmental changes relevant to primordial prevention are changes in eating 
patterns, drinking, smoking, physical activity and stress management. Primary 
prevention focuses on population and on high-risk groups. Specific high-risk 
subjects are those with family history of CHD, hypertension or diabetes or those 
having sedentary lifestyle, obesity, truncal obesity and biochemical coronary 
risk factors. The interventions are smoking cessation, increased physical 
activity, weight regulation, blood pressure control, lipid regulation and 
diabetes management.

PMID: 11265800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2001 Feb;27(1):14-20. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.582.

Reconciling animal and human data in a cancer risk assessment of acrylonitrile.

Schulz MR(1), Hertz-Picciotto I, Todd L, Ball LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
27599-7400, USA.

Comment in
    Scand J Work Environ Health. 2001 Feb;27(1):1-3.

OBJECTIVES: Bioassays of rats exposed to acrylonitrile have consistently 
detected an elevated incidence of central nervous system (CNS) cancer. In 
contrast, epidemiologic studies have not found a statistically stable increase 
in CNS cancer mortality. The purpose of this paper is to examine whether or not 
CNS cancers predicted from the most appropriate inhalation bioassay in rats are 
consistent with CNS cancers observed in 3 recent, large epidemiologic studies.
METHODS: A linearized multistage model was fit to dose-response data from a rat 
inhalation bioassay to estimate carcinogenic potency. This potency was applied 
to epidemiologic studies of acrylonitrile-exposed workers. After adjustment for 
less than complete lifetime follow-up in the epidemiologic studies, consistency 
was examined between CNS cancers predicted by the model fit to the animal data 
for the exposure levels and sample sizes of the epidemiologicy studies and the 
CNS cancers observed in the epidemiologic studies.
RESULTS: The model predicted totals of 17.7, 3.6, and 7.6 CNS cancer deaths for 
the studies. These predictions were not far from the observed CNS cancer deaths 
(12, 6, and 6) and were well within their 95% confidence intervals of 6.9-22.3, 
2.2-13.1, and 2.2-13.1, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The CNS cancer potency estimated from the best available inhalation 
bioassay was consistent with the observed deaths in the epidemiologic studies as 
long as continuous lifetime exposure was chosen as the exposure metric. The lack 
of observed excess in CNS cancer among the studied workers may have been due to 
low exposures, insufficient follow-up times, or both.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.582
PMID: 11266142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Respir Med. 2001 Mar;95(3):196-204. doi: 10.1053/rmed.2000.1021.

Living with severe COPD. A qualitative exploration of the experience of patients 
in Leeds.

Guthrie SJ(1), Hill KM, Muers ME.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Unit, Leeds General Infirmary, UK.

A sample of 37 patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
drawn from a larger group of 64 patients being studied in a randomized trial of 
nebulizer versus high-dose inhaler therapy, and similar in age and gender mix, 
was interviewed in depth, with a view to illuminating standardized outcome 
measures and improving the understanding of these patients' needs. Three 
patients are described in detail. The interview material was analysed using 
non-computerized methods. Quality of life was seen as depending mainly on family 
relationships, opportunities afforded locally for neighbourliness and freedom 
from fear, mobility and independence in the activities of daily living, and the 
absence or successful mitigation of symptoms of concomitant disease. 
Disease-specific, symptom-oriented outcome measures may miss these. 
Additionally, the near and repeatedly threatening approach of death recommended 
extension of a palliative approach to endstage COPD.

DOI: 10.1053/rmed.2000.1021
PMID: 11266237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Gastroenterology. 2001 Apr;120(5):1093-9. doi: 10.1053/gast.2001.23231.

Smoking cessation and the course of Crohn's disease: an intervention study.

Cosnes J(1), Beaugerie L, Carbonnel F, Gendre JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gastroentérologie et Nutrition, Hôpital Rothschild, 33 Boulevard 
de Picpus, 75571 Paris cedex 12, France. jacques.cosnes@rth.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: To evaluate the benefit of smoking cessation in individuals 
with Crohn's disease, we performed an intervention study in a large cohort of 
smokers with the disease.
METHODS: Repeated counseling to stop smoking, with easy access to a smoking 
cessation program, was given to 474 consecutive smokers with Crohn's disease. 
Patients who stopped smoking for more than 1 year (quitters) were included in a 
prospective follow-up study, which compared disease course and therapeutic needs 
with 2 control groups, continuing smokers and nonsmokers, paired for age, 
gender, disease location, and activity.
RESULTS: There were 59 quitters (12%). Predictors of quitting were the 
physician, previous intestinal surgery, high socioeconomic status, and in women, 
oral contraceptive use. During a median follow-up of 29 months (1-54 months), 
the risk of flare-up in quitters did not differ from that in nonsmokers and was 
less than in continuing smokers (P < 0.001). Need for steroids and for 
introduction or reinforcement of immunosuppressive therapy, respectively, were 
similar in quitters and nonsmokers and increased in continuing smokers. The risk 
of surgery was not significantly different in the 3 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with Crohn's disease who stop smoking for more than 1 year 
have a more benign disease course than if they had never smoked.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.2001.23231
PMID: 11266373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Transplant Proc. 2001 Feb-Mar;33(1-2):1670-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0041-1345(00)02635-x.

Long-term benefit of kidney-pancreas transplants in type 1 diabetics.

Ojo AO(1), Meier-Kriesche HU, Arndorfer JA, Leichtman AB, Magee JC, Cibrik DM, 
Wolfe RA, Port FK, Agodoa L, Kaufman DB, Kaplan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-1345(00)02635-x
PMID: 11267463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Womens Health Gend Based Med. 2001 Mar;10(2):109-16. doi: 
10.1089/152460901300039449.

Can variability in the hormonal status of elderly women assist in the decision 
to administer estrogens?

Kuchel GA(1), Tannenbaum C, Greenspan SL, Resnick NM.

Author information:
(1)UConn Center on Aging, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, 
Connecticut 06030-5215, USA.

Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) has been proposed for the prevention and 
treatment of many chronic conditions, ranging from osteoporosis, heart disease, 
urinary incontinence, and Alzheimer's disease. With the exception of 
osteoporosis, however, many of the suggested benefits remain controversial. Part 
of the controversy stems from the relative absence of randomized controlled 
trials, particularly those enrolling sufficient numbers of elderly women. We 
propose that another factor may also contribute, one that has been overlooked - 
failure to consider the variable endogenous estrogen status of elderly women. 
Highly variable levels of estrogens are present in nearly all postmenopausal 
women, even at advanced ages. Similar to other endocrine systems, estrogen 
deficiency and the need for its replacement are, therefore, likely to be 
relative rather than absolute. Recent studies indicate that elderly women who 
are less able to compensate for declining ovarian 17beta-estradiol production by 
adipose synthesis of estrone (E1) may be at greater risk for certain chronic 
conditions associated with relative estrogen deficiency. Because many markers of 
estrogen deficiency exhibit overlap between risk groups, their clinical 
usefulness as predictors of frailty, disability, and response to HRT has been 
limited. Future studies will need to focus not only on the use of highly 
variable circulating serum estrogen levels but also on markers of overall 
estrogenic effects at the level of individual target tissues (i.e., markers of 
bone turnover, karyopyknotic index on a vaginal wall smear). We propose that a 
clinical approach that takes into consideration the remarkable heterogeneity 
(physiological as well as psychological) of elderly women will enable us to 
approach the decision about HRT in a more individualized and possibly better 
targeted fashion.

DOI: 10.1089/152460901300039449
PMID: 11268296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Can J Urol. 2001 Feb;8(1):1203-6.

Testicular seminoma and Down's syndrome.

Roberge D(1), Souhami L, Laplante M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology (Division of Radiation Oncology) McGill University, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To review cases of testicular seminoma in Down's syndrome (DS) 
patients.
METHODS: The case of a patient diagnosed and treated at our institution is 
reported. The literature is reviewed for previous cases, with attention paid to 
age, stage, treatment and outcome.
RESULTS: Nineteen cases were found. The mean age at diagnosis is 32. Seventy 
three percent are Stage I. At 47, our patient is the oldest reported case. A 
body of evidence exists for an association between DS and testicular seminoma. 
An increased rate of cryptorchidism, increased gonadotropin levels and genetic 
instability are possible pathways.
CONCLUSION: The age distribution of seminoma in DS is skewed by the decreased 
life expectancy of patients with DS. More cases should be seen as this life 
expectancy increases. The stage at presentation in DS patients is comparable to 
that seen in the general population. Standard therapy has been successfully 
delivered in these patients.

PMID: 11268309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Anticancer Res. 2000 Sep-Oct;20(5C):3903-6.

Serum tetranectin and CA125 in endometrial adenocarcinoma.

Lundstrøm MS(1), Høgdall CK, Nielsen AL, Nyholm HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Copenhagen, Hvidovre 
Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: CA125 and tetranectin (TN) are prognostic markers in ovarian cancer. 
This study examines the values of these markers in endometrial cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: TN and CA125 were determined preoperatively in 99 
patients with primary endometrioid adenocarcinoma and evaluated in relation to 
tumor grade, stage and cancer survival.
RESULTS: The CA125 levels correlated significantly with tumor stage. 
Dichotomized according to a cut-off level of 35 U/ml, CA125 significantly 
correlated with cancer death. Multivariate regression analysis of cancer 
survival time showed that CA125 > 35 U/ml was not an independent factor when 
stage was introduced. TN levels were within the normal range in all patients and 
did not show any association with tumor grade, stage or survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirmed the role of CA125 as a prognostic factor in 
endometrial cancer and may be of aid in pointing out patients at high risk, 
whereas tetranectin did not show any prognostic effect.

PMID: 11268474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Mar 10;145(10):455-60.

[Save or destroy? The importance of medical record for former patients and 
future patients].

[Article in Dutch]

van Leeuwen FE(1), Schornagel JH.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Epidemiologie, Nederlands Kanker Instituut/Antoni van Leeuwenhoek 
Ziekenhuis, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam. fvleeuw@nki.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Jun 2;145(22):1090-1.

In 1995, a new privacy law was introduced in the Netherlands. According to this 
law, medical records should be saved for 10 years, and then destroyed, unless 
keeping the records for a longer period follows reasonably from the duties of 
the treating physician (as is the case, for example, when treating patients with 
a chronic disease). There are serious concerns with regard to the future 
availability of medical record data for clinical research and patient care after 
2005. Evaluation of the late effects of many medical treatments will no longer 
be possible in the Netherlands. Patient care, particularly genetic counselling, 
will be also seriously compromised. As a possible solution the profession might 
name diagnoses and treatments regarding for which, from the point of view of 
good care, it is necessary for files to be kept for longer than 10 years. For a 
uniform nationwide policy it would be better if all files, perhaps after sorting 
by diagnosis and treatment, should be obligatorily kept for much longer than 10 
years, preferably for the duration of the life expectancy.

PMID: 11268906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Clin Nephrol. 2001 Feb;55(2):101-8.

An analysis of cardiac mortality in patients with new-onset end-stage renal 
disease in New York State.

Wallen MD(1), Radhakrishnan J, Appel G, Hodgson ME, Pablos-Mendez A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Columbia University School of Public Health, New 
York, NY, USA.

End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with an overall one-year mortality 
of 23.5% in the US, of which cardiac causes constitute 50% of all deaths. Data 
on incident ESRD patients were obtained from the Health Care Financing 
Administration's 2728 and 2746 forms by special request from the ESRD Network of 
New York. 4,948 ESRD patients, who started dialysis in New York State from April 
1, 1995, through April 1, 1996, were assessed to identify risk factors present 
at the initiation of dialysis that predict cardiac death. 899 deaths were 
registered during the 19-month-follow-up period, 50% of which were from cardiac 
causes. Using the Cox-proportional hazards model, the increasing age category, 
white race, the presence of one or more vascular co-morbid conditions, and the 
presence of diabetes and one or more cardiac co-morbid conditions significantly 
predicted cardiac death (p < 0.05). Diabetes increased the risk for cardiac 
death by 48% for those patients without any cardiac co-morbidities (RR = 1.48, p 
< 0.0082). In contrast with results observed in the general population, gender, 
serum albumin and body mass index were not significant predictors of cardiac 
death. In identifying risk factors present at the initiation ofdialysis that 
predict cardiac death, this study highlights factors that may be modified prior 
to dialysis initiation in order to improve life expectancy and mortality rates 
and decrease health care costs for the ESRD population.

PMID: 11269672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Adv Mind Body Med. 2001 Winter;17(1):38-41.

Supportive-expressive group therapy and life extension of breast cancer 
patients: Spiegel et al. (1989).

Spiegel D(1), Cordova M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-5718, USA.

PMID: 11270061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2000 Nov-Dec;51(8):737-9.

[Peritonsillar abscess with parotid and peripharyngeal extension. Report of a 
case].

[Article in Spanish]

Barroso Braojos G(1), Raboso García-Baquero E, Martínez Sanmillán J, Martínez 
Vidal A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de ORL, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, España. 
gbarroso@hrc.insalud.es

Peritonsillar abscess is the most frequent complication of a tonsillar 
infection. The purulent material can spread from peritonsillar space to the 
fascial neck spaces. These deep neck infections may be a life threatening 
complication. The correct treatment of these infections is an appropriate 
antimicrobial therapy and abscess drainage, most of the times by surgery. We 
present a clinical case of a large perypharyngeal, and parotid abscess 
originated from a peritonsillar abscess. It was necessary surgical treatment to 
drain it.

PMID: 11270112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2001;(2):24-9.

[Evaluating relative risk of morbidity or mortality for persons who participated 
in the clean-up of the Chernobyl accident (based on the DALY index)].

[Article in Russian]

Tukov AR, Shafranskiĭ IL.

The article covers a method evaluating the relative morbidity or mortality risk 
for those who liquidated Chernobyl accident consequences. The method is based on 
number of years lost due to untimely death and on number of years spent in 
disability due to new diseases or traumas. The highest mortality risk was 
revealed in the group who received at least 10.0 cGy, in workers with traumas 
and poisonings, in office workers with cardiovascular diseases.

PMID: 11270147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2001 Feb;35(1):104-17. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1614.2001.00845.x.

The role of economic evaluation in mental health care.

Singh B(1), Hawthorne G, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: A consequence of the integration of psychiatry into acute and public 
health medicine is that psychiatrists are being asked to evaluate their 
services. There is pressure on mental health-care systems because it is 
recognized that funds should be directed where they can provide the best health 
outcomes, and also because there are resource constraints which limit our 
capacity to meet all demands for health care. This pressure can be responded to 
by evaluation which demonstrates the effectiveness and efficiency of psychiatric 
treatment. This paper seeks to remind psychiatrists of the fundamental 
principles of economic evaluation in the hope that these will enable 
psychiatrists to understand the methods used in evaluation and to work 
comfortably with evaluators.
METHOD: The paper reviews the basic principles behind economic evaluation, 
illustrating these with reference to case studies. It describes: (i) the cost of 
the burden of illness and treatment, and how these costs are measured; (ii) the 
measurement of treatment outcomes, both as changes in health status and as 
resources saved; and (iii) the various types of economic evaluation, including 
cost-minimization, cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit analysis.
RESULTS: The advice in the paper provides psychiatrists with the necessary 
background to work closely with evaluators. A checklist of the critical 
questions to be addressed is provided as a guide for those undertaking economic 
evaluations.
CONCLUSIONS: If psychiatrists are willing to learn the basic principles of 
economic evaluation and to apply these, they can respond to the challenges of 
evaluation.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1614.2001.00845.x
PMID: 11270444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Am Surg. 2001 Mar;67(3):237-41; discussion 241-2.

Interleukin-10 attenuates proinflammatory cytokine production and improves 
survival in lethal pancreatitis.

Cook JW(1), Karakozis S, Kim D, Provido H, Gongora E, Kirkpatrick JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington Hospital Center, DC 20010-2975, USA.

Given that interleukin (IL)-10 (IL-10) serves as a potent down-regulator of 
specific proinflammatory cytokines we reasoned that its administration should 
improve outcome in situations in which the biological response to a severe 
inflammatory challenge is the critical determinant of survival. To test our 
hypothesis we administered IL-10 in the setting of lethal pancreatitis to 
determine its effect on proinflammatory cytokine production and survival. We 
divided Sprague-Dawley rats into three groups. Controls (Group 1, n = 5) 
received a sham laparotomy. We induced pancreatitis in Group 2 (n = 9) and Group 
3 (n = 9) via laparotomy and intrapancreatic infiltration of one mL of 5 per 
cent sodium taurocholate. Group 2 was treated only with saline, whereas Group 3 
was treated with 10,000 units of IL-10 (in saline) at 30 minutes, 3.5 hours, and 
6.5 hours after induction of pancreatitis. Serial blood samples were obtained at 
6.5 hours for measurement of amylase, IL-1, and IL-6. The Kaplan-Meier method, 
Wilcoxon test, and Student's t test were used for analysis. Seven-day survival 
was 100, 0, and 45 per cent in Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Production of 
amylase, IL-1, and IL-6 was lower in the IL-10-treated group (Group 3) compared 
with the group treated with saline alone (Group 2, P < 0.05). We conclude that 
administration of IL-10 in the setting of otherwise 100 per cent lethal 
experimental pancreatitis significantly reduces production of amylase, IL-1, and 
IL-6 and improves survival.

PMID: 11270881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Br J Neurosurg. 2000 Dec;14(6):575-8. doi: 10.1080/02688690050206756.

Radiation-induced cavernous angioma mimicking metastatic disease.

Olivero WC(1), Deshmukh P, Gujrati M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Department of Pathology, University of 
Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria, PO Box 1649, Peoria, IL 61657, USA.

Patients with carcinoma of the lung typically have a limited life expectancy 
especially after developing metastatic disease in the brain. New enhancing 
lesions in the brain are usually felt to represent new areas of metastasis. 
Recently, there have been several case reports of cavernous angiomas appearing 
years after radiation to the brain, typically in children. We present a case of 
a 41-year-old gentleman with carcinoma of the lung with metastasis to the brain 
who received postoperative radiation. Five-and-a-half years later he presented 
with a new enhancing lesion of the brain with surrounding vasogenic oedema, 
thought to represent a metastatic tumour. It proved is the a radiation-induced 
cavernous angioma.

DOI: 10.1080/02688690050206756
PMID: 11272041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Laryngorhinootologie. 2001 Jan;80(1):43-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-11029.

[Juvenile hyaline fibromatosis (JHF)].

[Article in German]

Lindemann J(1), Richter D, Mohr W, Zenkel M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen-, Ohrenheilkunde, Universität Ulm. 
ent.department@medizin.uni-ulm.de

The juvenile hyaline fibromatosis (JHF) is a rare tumorous autosomal recessive 
disease of the connective tissue. The etiopathogenesis of the disease is 
unknown. Typical diagnostic criteria are multiple hyaline subcutaneous fibroma, 
filamentous tumors of the skin, gingival hypertrophy, muscle contractures of the 
extremities and multiple osteolytic bone destructions. Involvement of visceral 
organs is not described. Mental development and life expectancy are normal. 
Until today, no causal treatment of the JHF exists. Surgical excision of the 
dermal tumors is indicated for functional and aesthetic improvement. Complete 
excision should be executed in the early phase of their development. This has 
shown the best functional and aesthetic results, especially in facial areas. The 
progress of the disease is individual. Due to frequent recurrencies, repeated 
resections and revisions may be necessary. Interdisciplinal counseling and 
therapy, particularly physiotherapy, may partially improve the state of 
function.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-11029
PMID: 11272247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Gesundheitswesen. 2001 Jan;63(1):9-14. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-10454.

[Life expectancy and the need for nursing care in Germany].

[Article in German]

Bickel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Technischen 
Universität München. h.bickel@lrz.tum.de

Effects of further gains in life expectancy on the health and autonomy of the 
elderly population are a matter of controversy. Health indicators, which 
integrate information on both mortality and morbidity could help to clarify 
whether the additional years are spent in health or disease. Since the 
introduction of a statutory long-term care insurance in Germany, national data 
on the prevalence of dependency are available. These data were used for the 
calculation of dependency-free life expectancy and life expectancy in a state of 
dependency according to Sullivans method. The calculations are based on 71.5 
million insured at mid-year 1999 and on the period life-table for the years 
1995/97. At the age of 65 the average duration of dependency is 15.4 months for 
men and 29.4 months for women. Men can expect to spend 91.4% of their remaining 
lifetime dependency-free, whereas the dependency-free proportion among women is 
only 86.9%. The distribution of severity grades of dependency is similar for 
both sexes. Women, however, spend 35.4% of the total duration of dependency in 
institutional care (10.4 months), men only 22.1% (3.5 months). Information from 
long-term care insurance appears suitable for the monitoring of time trends in 
the health of the elderly population and for projections of future needs for 
health and social services.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-10454
PMID: 11272867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Gerontol Nurs. 2000 Apr;26(4):14-24; quiz 52-3. doi: 
10.3928/0098-9134-20000401-05.

Mammography screening for older women with and without cognitive impairment.

Messecar DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health Sciences University School of Nursing, SN-4N, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97201-3098, USA.

No upper age limit exists for Medicare benefits for mammography screening, but 
benefits for women older than age 75 remain unclear. From a clinical 
perspective, it would be useful to know if there is an upper age limit for women 
beyond which screening for breast cancer will not extend life. Using a 
decision-analysis model, the author examined the utility of screening using 
cohorts of women age 75 to 79, 80 to 84, and 85 and older, with and without 
cognitive impairment. The analysis evaluated different scenarios of the benefit 
of biennial screening versus no screening for women who had no prior screening 
and women who had participated in a regular screening program. Screening 
increased Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) at all ages. Marginal savings in 
life expectancy adjusted for quality of life for women with no prior screening 
ranged from 43.5 days for healthy 75 to 79-year-old women to 25.9 days for women 
older than age 85. Among cognitively impaired women who were never screened, 
savings ranged from 20 to 5.5 days for the three age cohorts. Biennial screening 
among women who had been screened continuously resulted in substantially smaller 
life expectancy savings, from 3.3 days for healthy individuals age 75 to 79 to 
less than 1 day for women older than age 85. Cost effectiveness analysis 
indicated the reduction in costs associated with managing recurrent disease 
gained by early diagnosis with mammography was greatest among the population 
with no prior screening. Although the increase in QALYs was consistently lower 
for cognitively impaired women than for their healthy counterparts, the presence 
of cognitive impairment did not alter the finding that screening increased 
QALYs.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-20000401-05
PMID: 11272962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2001 Apr;16(4):824-8. doi: 10.1093/ndt/16.4.824.

Renal transplantation in the elderly: a long-term, single-centre experience.

Saudan P(1), Berney T, Leski M, Morel P, Bolle JF, Martin PY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: End-stage renal failure increases with advancing age and renal 
transplantation should be considered in end-stage renal failure patients older 
than 60 years. However, there is a paucity of data on long-term patient and 
graft survival in this population.
METHODS: From October 1983 to March 1999, 310 renal transplantations were 
performed at Geneva University Hospital in 283 patients, of which 49 were done 
in 48 patients older than 60 years (mean age 65.6+/-4.1 years). The following 
data were analysed at 1, 5, and 10 years, and compared between the patients >60 
years and <60 years old: actuarial patient and graft survival, serum creatinine, 
causes of graft loss, and patient death.
RESULTS: Patient survival at 10 years was 81% for patients <60 years and 44% for 
patients >60 years. Graft survival at 10 years was 59% for patients <60 years 
and 32% for patients >60 years. Graft survival at 10 years censored for death 
with functioning graft was 65% for patients <60 years and 81% for patients >60 
years. Main causes of mortality in the older patients were related to 
cardiovascular events (47%), neoplasia (41%), and sepsis (18%). Overall, 
recipient and donor age were not predictive factors for graft survival, as shown 
by multiple logistic regression.
CONCLUSIONS: Renal transplantation should be considered in patients older than 
60 years, since graft survival is excellent in this population. Although these 
patients have a shorter life expectancy, they benefit from renal transplantation 
similarly to younger kidney transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/16.4.824
PMID: 11274281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Mar 27;98(7):3744-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.051625298.  Epub 2001 Mar 13.

Crystal structure of the ectodomain of Methuselah, a Drosophila G 
protein-coupled receptor associated with extended lifespan.

West AP Jr(1), Llamas LL, Snow PM, Benzer S, Bjorkman PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology 156-29, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 
91125, USA.

The Drosophila mutant methuselah (mth) was identified from a screen for single 
gene mutations that extended average lifespan. Mth mutants have a 35% increase 
in average lifespan and increased resistance to several forms of stress, 
including heat, starvation, and oxidative damage. The protein affected by this 
mutation is related to G protein-coupled receptors of the secretin receptor 
family. Mth, like secretin receptor family members, has a large N-terminal 
ectodomain, which may constitute the ligand binding site. Here we report the 
2.3-A resolution crystal structure of the Mth extracellular region, revealing a 
folding topology in which three primarily beta-structure-containing domains meet 
to form a shallow interdomain groove containing a solvent-exposed tryptophan 
that may represent a ligand binding site. The Mth structure is analyzed in 
relation to predicted Mth homologs and potential ligand binding features.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.051625298
PMCID: PMC31123
PMID: 11274391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Annu Rev Public Health. 2001;22:129-41. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.22.1.129.

Design issues for conducting cost-effectiveness analyses alongside clinical 
trials.

Ramsey SD(1), McIntosh M, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
USA. sramsey@fhcrc.org

In response to rising demands for timely economic data on new medical 
technologies, cost-effectiveness studies are increasingly being conducted 
alongside clinical trials. Because of the historical differences in perspective 
and methods between cost-effectiveness studies and clinical trials, the design 
phase of these hybrid trials requires special consideration. Cost-effectiveness 
studies require more comprehensive evaluations of outcomes than the endpoints 
typically measured in clinical trials. Often, these comprehensive outcome 
measures (such as quality of life) prove useful for interpreting the other 
endpoints measured in the trial, as well as for estimating the 
cost-effectiveness of the intervention. In this manuscript, we discuss several 
aspects related to the design of joint clinical/economic trials, including study 
perspective, hypothesis testing, sample size estimation, and methods for 
collecting cost and outcome data. We also discuss issues that may limit the 
external validity of the cost-effectiveness results of these trials. Many 
potential threats to external validity can be successfully addressed if they are 
identified and accounted for in the design phase of the study.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.22.1.129
PMID: 11274515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Exp Hematol. 2001 Mar;29(3):362-70. doi: 10.1016/s0301-472x(00)00655-x.

Low-intensity conditioning is sufficient to ensure engraftment in matched 
unrelated bone marrow transplantation.

Nagler A(1), Aker M, Or R, Naparstek E, Varadi G, Brautbar C, Slavin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone Marrow Transplantation, Hadassah University Hospital, The 
Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Medicine, Jerusalem, Israel. 
nagler@hadassah.org.il

OBJECTIVE: Matched unrelated bone marrow transplantation (BMT) for patients with 
hematological malignancies is associated with a high incidence of 
transplant-related complications due to high doses of chemoradiotherapy 
administered pre-BMT to ensure engraftment. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the feasibility of low-intensity conditioning for BMT from matched 
unrelated donors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixteen patients with hematologic malignancies underwent 
non-T-cell-depleted BMT following a low-intensity conditioning regimen 
consisting of fludarabine monophosphate 30 mg/m(2)/day for 6 days, busulfan 4 
mg/kg/day for 2 days, anti-T lymphocyte globulin 10 mg/kg/day for 4 days. Seven 
of the patients suffered from chronic myelogenous leukemia, four from acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia, four from acute myelogenous leukemia, and one from Ki-1 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Three of the patients had secondary leukemia and two 
were post-autologous BMT (ABMT). All patients were transplanted from fully 
matched unrelated donors.
RESULTS: Fifteen of the 16 patients had 100% donor chimerism; no graft rejection 
was observed. None of the patients developed >Grade II veno-occlusive disease, 
sepsis, multiorgan failure, or renal or pulmonary toxicity. Four patients died 
posttransplant; one of thrombocytopenia and severe hemorrhagic cystitis, one of 
central nervous system toxicity, one of Grade IV graft-vs-host disease, and one 
following relapse (9 months post-BMT). Survival and disease-free survival at 36 
months are 75% (95% confidence interval 46-90%) and 60% (95% confidence interval 
30-80%), respectively.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that low-intensity conditioning is sufficient 
to ensure stable engraftment of bone marrow grafts in a matched unrelated 
setting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-472x(00)00655-x
PMID: 11274765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Chemotherapy. 2001;47 Suppl 2:1-29. doi: 10.1159/000049157.

Somatostatin analogs for cancer treatment and diagnosis: an overview.

Scarpignato C(1), Pelosini I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University 
of Parma, Italy. scarpi@tin.it

Due to the limited efficacy and considerable toxicity of conventional 
chemotherapy, novel cytotoxic agents and innovative noncytotoxic approaches to 
cancer treatment are being developed. Amongst the various hormonal agents, 
increasing attention is being directed to somatostatin analogs. This is largely 
due to the demonstration of antineoplastic activity of these compounds in a 
variety of experimental models in vitro and in vivo and to the elucidation of 
some aspects of the molecular mechanisms underlying their antineoplastic 
activity. On the other hand, clinical experience with somatostatin analogs in 
the treatment of conditions like acromegaly and GEP tumors has shown that they 
are well tolerated compared to other antineoplastic therapies currently in use. 
As a consequence, there is much ongoing clinical research to determine whether 
or not results from experimental studies will translate into clinically useful 
antineoplastic activity. Besides being used in cancer treatment and palliation, 
radiolabelled somatostatin analogs are employed for the localization of primary 
and metastatic tumors expressing somatostatin receptors. The so-called 
'somatostatin receptor scintigraphy' is indeed the most important clinical 
diagnostic investigation for patients with suspected neuroendocrine tumors. 
Targeted radiotherapy, which is being evaluated in clinical trials, represents 
an obvious extension of somatostatin scintigraphy. Since the short half-life of 
native somatostatin makes continuous intravenous infusion mandatory, several 
long-acting analogs have been synthesized. Amongst the hundreds of peptides 
synthesized, octreotide (which binds mainly to SSTR-2 and SSTR-5 receptor 
subtypes) has been the most extensively investigated. A thorough analysis of the 
pharmacological activities and therapeutic efficacy of the native somatostatin 
and the synthetic analogs (octreotide, lanreotide and vapreotide) reveals that 
the biological actions of these peptides are not always identical. These 
differences appear to be related to the different affinities of the natural 
hormone and synthetic derivatives for the different receptor subtypes. For all 
the three peptides long-lasting formulations have been developed to provide 
patients with the convenience of once or twice a month administration and to 
ensure stable drug serum concentrations between injections. Radiolabelled 
derivatives of octreotide, lanreotide and vapreotide have been synthesized and 
used as radiopharmaceuticals for somatostatin receptor scintigraphy and 
somatostatin receptor-targeted radiotherapy. The safety profile of synthetic 
somatostatin analogs is well established. Most adverse reactions to these 
peptides are merely a consequence of their pharmacological activity and consist 
mainly of gastrointestinal complaints, cholelithiasis and effects on glucose 
metabolism. They are often of little clinical relevance, thus making 
somatostatin analogs safe drugs for long-term use. While immediate release 
preparations are the drugs of choice in the short term, long-acting formulations 
are better indicated, on an outpatient basis, for the long-term management of 
chronic conditions. New 'receptor-selective' and 'universal' somatostatin 
analogs are being developed and combinations of currently available derivatives 
with other (cytotoxic and/or hormonal) agents are being explored in the search 
for an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment of the various malignancies. 
Somatostatin receptor-targeted chemotherapy (with conjugates of somatostatin 
peptides with cytotoxic drugs) and gene therapy (e.g. transferring the SSTR-2 
gene into neoplastic cells), which have been successfully tested in experimental 
studies, should be applied to human beings in a not too distant future.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000049157
PMID: 11275699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Surg Oncol. 2001 Mar;76(3):201-23. doi: 10.1002/jso.1035.

Statistical methods in cancer research.

Simpson PM(1), Spratt JA, Spratt JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Arkansas, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA.

Comment in
    J Surg Oncol. 2001 Dec;78(4):281-3.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.1035
PMID: 11276025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2001 Apr;13(4):528-33. doi: 10.1002/jmri.1075.

MRI in France: the French paradox.

Lavayssière R(1), Cabée AE.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Imagerie Paris-Nord, Sarcelles, France. cab.lav@wanadoo.fr

Although France is a modern, developed country, which spends nearly 10% of the 
gross national product on healthcare and has a highly praised level of medicine, 
the number of modern imaging scanners, such as CT (595), MRI (182), and PET (5), 
is quite low when compared to other European countries. Politics and a 
long-standing tradition of centralization are prominent among reasons for such 
an underdevelopment. This situation has resulted in another French paradox not 
linked to wine consumption. The French life expectancy is very high, but the 
number of imaging equipment is very low.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.1075
PMID: 11276096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2001 Apr;3(2):129-35. doi:
10.1007/s11894-001-0009-4.

Neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and palliative treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Birk D(1), Beger HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Ulm, Steinhoevelstrasse 9, 89075 
Ulm, Germany.

Pancreatic cancer remains a highly malignant disease. Curative treatment is only 
possible for patients diagnosed at a very early stage. Therefore, the vast 
majority of pancreatic cancer patients receive palliative treatment. Surgical 
palliation is offered to patients who are found not to have a resectable tumor. 
The treatment of obstructive jaundice is managed by stenting of the common bile 
duct or by a surgical bypass. The best possible surgical procedure should be 
based on the factors that influence hospital mortality, length of survival, and 
quality of life. In patients with a life expectancy of longer than 3 months, 
surgical bypass is recommended, with hepaticojejunostomy the treatment of 
choice. In the same surgical procedure, the relief of duodenal obstruction with 
a gastroenteric bypass should be achieved. Chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or a 
combination of both is employed as a neoadjuvant measure, as an adjuvant 
treatment, or, in most patients, as palliation. As palliative chemotherapy 
alone, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) plus folinic acid is still the treatment of choice; 
however, newer drugs, such as gemcitabine, seem to have similar or marginally 
better results. Palliative radiochemotherapy with external-beam radiation plus 
5-FU and folinic acid seems to lead to better local control of tumor progression 
but not to better survival, for which distant metastases are the limiting 
factor.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-001-0009-4
PMID: 11276380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Eur J Public Health. 2001 Mar;11(1):84-8. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/11.1.84.

Registration of external causes of death in the Baltic States 1970-1997.

Värnik A(1), Wasserman D, Palo E, Tooding LM.

Author information:
(1)Estonian-Swedish Institute of Suicidology, Tallinn, Estonia. airiv@online.ee

BACKGROUND: Trends in external causes of deaths in the Baltic States--Estonia, 
Latvia and Lithuania--were analysed against the background of turbulent 
political, social and economic changes. The reliability of mortality statistics 
concerning external causes of death in these countries is considered to be good.
METHOD: This study is based on data published by the statistical offices of the 
three Baltic States and on data obtained through interviews with personnel 
employed at the national statistical offices. The study period was divided, by 
socio-political and economic factors, into a period of stagnation (1970-1984) 
and a period of reforms (1985-1997).
RESULTS: During 1970-1984 a stable slightly upward trend of external causes of 
death rates was observed. The curve became S-shaped in the reform period: 
between 1984 and 1988 a marked decrease occurred followed by a rapid increase of 
rates until 1994, and then by 1997 a fall to the approximate level of 1984. The 
male to female ratio of external causes of death was between 3.4:1 and 4.2:1. 
External deaths accounted for 10% to 14% of all deaths before 1984. During the 
period 1984-1988 the proportion of external deaths was under 10% and peaked in 
1994 at 16%. Fluctuations in the trends of external death were more pronounced 
among males than females in all Baltic countries.
CONCLUSION: Trends in external causes of death were similar in Baltic States. 
High proportions of violent death decreased life-expectancy for both sexes, but 
markedly for males. Social stresses and alcohol consumption could be considered 
as factors influencing the mortality rates and specific fluctuations in trends 
of external death, especially among males.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/11.1.84
PMID: 11276577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Am J Knee Surg. 2000 Summer;13(3):153-5.

Early postoperative assessment technique: a time-to-remission technique after 
condylar replacement.

Barck AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Stockholm Söder Hospital, Karolinska Institute, 
Sweden.

Inconsistencies in reports of clinical outcome occur on many levels. Using 
life-table techniques for remission can increase reproducibility, facilitate 
comparisons with other studies, and answer patient questions about 
rehabilitation time. The complementary rate of Kaplan-Meier's cumulative 
survival rate was calculated for pain and knee mobility after unicondylar and 
bicondylar knee replacement in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Pain 
