relief was quick, often within 2 months. Eventually, >50% had attained both pain 
alleviation and normal mobility. The probability of regaining at least 90 
degrees flexion was greater than regaining 0 degrees extension. The probability 
of increasing the preoperative extension capacity was higher than that of 
increasing the flexion capacity.

PMID: 11277243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Biol Chem. 2001 May 11;276(19):16501-10. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M008598200. Epub
 2001 Jan 29.

Oxidation of thymine to 5-formyluracil in DNA promotes misincorporation of dGMP 
and subsequent elongation of a mismatched primer terminus by DNA polymerase.

Masaoka A(1), Terato H, Kobayashi M, Ohyama Y, Ide H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan.

5-Formyluracil (fU) is a major oxidative thymine lesion generated by ionizing 
radiation and reactive oxygen species. In the present study, we have assessed 
the influence of fU on DNA replication to elucidate its genotoxic potential. 
Oligonucleotide templates containing fU at defined sites were replicated in 
vitro by Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment deficient in 
3'-5'-exonuclease. Gel electrophoretic analysis of the reaction products showed 
that fU constituted very weak replication blocks to DNA synthesis, suggesting a 
weak to negligible cytotoxic effect of this lesion. However, primer extension 
assays with a single dNTP revealed that fU directed incorporation of not only 
correct dAMP but also incorrect dGMP, although much less efficiently. No 
incorporation of dCMP and dTMP was observed. When fU was substituted for T in 
templates, the incorporation efficiency of dAMP (f(A) = V(max)/K(m)) decreased 
to (1/4) to (1/2), depending on the nearest neighbor base pair, and that of dGMP 
(f(G)) increased 1.1-5.6-fold. Thus, the increase in the replication error 
frequency (f(G)/f(A) for fU versus T) was 3.1-14.3-fold. The misincorporation 
rate of dGMP opposite fU (pK(a) = 8.6) but not T (pK(a) = 10.0) increased with 
pH (7.2-8.6) of the reaction mixture, indicating the participation of the 
ionized (or enolate) form of fU in the mispairing with G. The resulting 
mismatched fU:G primer terminus was more efficiently extended than the T:G 
terminus (8.2-11.3-fold). These results show that when T is oxidized to fU in 
DNA, fU promotes both misincorporation of dGMP at this site and subsequent 
elongation of the mismatched primer, hence potentially mutagenic.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M008598200
PMID: 11278425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2001 Mar 29;410(6828):521. doi: 10.1038/35069154.

Unwritten knowledge.

Diamond J(1).

Author information:
(1)Jared Diamond is in the Physiology Department, University of California 
Medical School, Los Angeles, California 90095-1751, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/35069154
PMID: 11279469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Am J Hematol. 2001 Apr;66(4):229-40. doi: 10.1002/ajh.1050.

Effects of HIV infection on age and cause of death for persons with hemophilia A 
in the United States.

Chorba TL(1), Holman RC, Clarke MJ, Evatt BL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunologic, Oncologic, and Hematologic Diseases, National Center 
for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Public 
Health Service, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. tlc2@cdc.gov

Because of changes in factor replacement therapy and in treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, we examined death record data for 
persons with hemophilia A in the United States to evaluate effects of HIV 
infection on age and causes of death. Multiple cause-of-death data from 1968 
through 1998 were examined to assess death rates for persons with hemophilia A. 
ICD-9 coded causes of death from 1979 through 1998 were examined to assess 
long-term trends. From 1979 through 1998, 4,781 deaths among persons with 
hemophilia A were reported, of which 2,254 (47%) had HIV-related disease listed 
as a cause of death. In the late 1980s, mortality among persons with hemophilia 
A increased markedly, and the age-adjusted death rate peaked at 1.5 per 
1,000,000 population in 1992. Median age at death decreased from 55 years in 
1979-1982 to 40.5 years in 1987-1990, and increased to 46 years in 1995-1998. In 
the period 1995-1998, the median age of hemophilia A decedents with HIV-related 
disease was 33 years, compared to 72 years for those without HIV-related 
disease; the most frequently listed causes of death for those without 
HIV-related disease were hemorrhagic and circulatory phenomena; the most 
frequently listed for those with HIV-related disease were diseases of liver and 
the respiratory system. From 1995 to 1998, hemophilia A-associated deaths 
decreased by 41%, with a 78% decrease among those who had HIV-related disease. 
Although HIV infection has adversely effected mortality for persons with 
hemophilia A, the marked recent decrease in the death rate among persons with 
hemophilia A appears to reflect advances in care for those with HIV-related 
disease and is consistent with a decline in HIV mortality observed in the 
general population.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.1050
PMID: 11279632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(1):CD001556. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001556.

Preoperative chemotherapy for resectable thoracic esophageal cancer.

Malthaner R(1), Fenlon D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Western Ontario, London Health Sciences 
Centre, 375 South Street, Suite N345, London, Ontario, Canada, N6A 4G5. 
richard.malthaner@lhsc.on.ca

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD001556.

BACKGROUND: Carcinoma of the esophagus is a relatively uncommon but lethal 
cancer that continues to kill over 90% of its victims within 5 years. Surgery is 
the treatment of choice for most localized esophageal cancer patients. However, 
despite curative resection, the 5-year survival rate ranges from 15% to 39%. The 
failure of surgery to cure clinically localized esophageal cancer is because of 
the advanced state of the disease before symptoms occur, high frequency of lymph 
node involvement, and the common occurrence of submucosal spread and extension 
to surrounding structures. Preoperative chemotherapy has been used in an attempt 
to decrease tumour activity, increase resectability, and improve disease-free 
and overall survival. A number of studies have investigated whether preoperative 
chemotherapy followed by surgery leads to an improvement in cure rates, but the 
individual reports have not been encouraging. The role of preoperative 
chemotherapy in the treatment of resectable thoracic esophageal cancer remains 
undefined.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to determine the role of 
preoperative chemotherapy on overall survival and/or quality-of-life for 
patients with resectable thoracic esophageal carcinoma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: Trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Controlled 
Trials Register (Issue 2 - 2000), MEDLINE (1966 - 2000), EMBASE (1988 - 2000) 
and CancerLit (1993 - 2000). The references of all identified studies, review 
articles, and standard textbooks were examined. Members of the Cochrane UGPD 
Group and experts in the oncology field were contacted and asked to supply 
details of any outstanding clinical trials and relevant unpublished materials. 
There were no language restrictions. The searches were updated in June 2000. The 
clinical trial registers of the National Cancer Institute and the Radiation 
Therapy Oncology Group were consulted for ongoing trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Types of studies Studies (published or unpublished) that 
randomised patients with potentially resectable carcinoma of the esophagus (of 
any histologic type) to chemotherapy or no chemotherapy before surgery were 
included in this review. Studies were excluded if they were not truly randomised 
(phase I or II trials), earlier versions of updated trials, if other treatment 
modalities (e.g. radiotherapy, hyperthermia) were used, or if there was not a 
surgery alone control arm. Types of participants The participants consisted of 
patients with potentially resectable thoracic esophageal carcinoma (of any 
histologic type). Trials involving patients with carcinoma of the cervical 
esophagus were excluded. Types of interventions Trials that compared 
chemotherapy before surgery (esophagectomy) with surgical resection alone 
(esophagectomy). Types of outcome measures The primary outcome was death at 
yearly intervals. Morbidity (complications), and quality-of-life were secondary 
outcomes.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Overall mortality at yearly intervals was 
determined by extracting the total number of patients randomised to the 
treatment and control groups and the number of deaths in each group. All 
analyses were carried out on intention-to-treat that is patients were analyzed 
according to their allocated treatment, irrespective of whether they received 
that treatment. Mortality at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years were used as endpoints of 
clinical relevance. If survival numbers at the specified time intervals were not 
given, they were estimated from the published survival curves. The number of 
deaths in the treatment groups (preoperative chemotherapy plus surgery) was 
compared to the number of deaths in the control groups (surgery alone). 
Treatment modalities as well as patient demographics and characteristics and 
side-effects were also recorded. Trials meeting the inclusion criteria were 
evaluated by two independent reviewers using the Jadad method
MAIN RESULTS: A total of 14 randomised controlled trials and 1 meta-analysis of 
preoperative chemotherapy versus surgery alone for esophageal carcinoma were 
identified to be potentially eligible for review. This review is based on 7 
randomised trials and 1653 patients. At 1 year the Peto odds ratio based on the 
fixed-effects models showed no difference in mortality between preoperative 
chemotherapy and surgery alone (OR = 1.03). At 2 years there was a 20% 
significant decrease in mortality for preoperative chemotherapy (OR = 0.80; 95% 
C.I. 0.65 to 0.99) but the results were not robust. The results at 3, 4, and 5 
years found odds ratios tending to favour preoperative chemotherapy, but wide 
confidence intervals that included 1. None of the published trials reported on 
quality-of-life outcomes. There appeared to be an increased risk of morbidity 
with chemotherapy.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: The results of this review suggest that there is no 
strong evidence to recommend preoperative chemotherapy in the treatment of 
surgically resectable carcinomas of the thoracic esophagus. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001556
PMID: 11279723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2001 Feb;16(1):47-54. doi: 
10.1089/108497801750096023.

Treatment of kidney cancer with autologous tumor cell vaccines of short-term 
cell lines derived from renal cell carcinoma.

Dillman RO(1), Barth NM, VanderMolen LA, Garfield DH, De Leon C, O'Connor AA, 
Mahdavi K, Nayak SK.

Author information:
(1)Hoag Cancer Center, One Hoag Drive, Building 41, Newport Beach, California 
92658, USA. rdillman@hoaghospital.org

BACKGROUND: We established short-term cultures of autologous tumors from 
patients with renal carcinoma for use as active specific immunotherapy (i.e., 
autologous vaccine).
METHODS: Between 9/91 and 9/99 the cell biology laboratory of the Hoag Cancer 
Center received 69 kidney tumor samples that had been surgically excised, 
including 43 primary tumors and 26 metastatic lesions. Efforts were made to 
establish short-term tumor cell cultures to use as autologous tumor cell 
vaccines. Prior to treatment, patients underwent a baseline skin test for 
delayed tumor hypersensitivity (DTH) and then received s.c. injections of 10 
million irradiated tumor cells that were given with various adjuvants weekly x3 
and then monthly x5.
RESULTS: Cell lines were established for 55/69 patients (80%) including 36/43 
(84%) from primary tumors and 19/26 (73%) from distant metastases. Vaccines were 
prepared for 41 patients; 27 were treated. At the time of this analysis, follow 
up data was available for 26 patients with a median follow up > 5 years. 
Treatment was well-tolerated. Of 10 patients who had no evident disease at the 
time of treatment, nine were alive 1-8 years later; 5/8 had conversion of their 
DTH test from negative to positive. For 16 patients with measurable metastatic 
disease at the time of treatment, there were no objective tumor responses; their 
median survival was 5.0 months. Among these 16 patients, only 1/8 DTH tests 
converted, but three had a positive baseline DTH test; one was previously 
treated with interleukin-2 and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and two others 
were previously treated with autolymphocyte therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Vaccine therapy with short-term cultures of autologous tumor cells 
is feasible, well-tolerated and associated with conversion of DTH and long-term 
survival in patients who are free of disease at the time treatment is initiated. 
However, significant anti-tumor responses were not seen in patients with 
measurable disease at the time vaccine treatment was initiated.

DOI: 10.1089/108497801750096023
PMID: 11279797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 Feb;24 Suppl 1:70-4.

[Retransplant in recurrence of hepatopathy caused by HCV].

[Article in Spanish]

Bárcena R(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Unidad de Trasplante Hepático, Hospital Ramón 
y Cajal, Ctra. de Colmenar Viejo, km 9,1. 28033 Madrid.

PMID: 11279898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2001 Jan-Feb;16(1):73-9.

Rehabilitation of patients with severely resorbed maxillae by means of implants 
with or without bone grafts: a 3- to 5-year follow-up clinical report.

Widmark G(1), Andersson B, Carlsson GE, Lindvall AM, Ivanoff CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Bohus County Public Dental 
Service , Mölndal Hospital, Sweden. goran.widmark@vgregion.se

Forty three patients with severely resorbed maxillae who had been referred for 
implant treatment were assigned to 1 of 3 treatment options: bone grafting and 
implant placement (graft group), modified implant placement with no bone 
grafting (trial group), or optimized complete dentures (no-implant group). 
Sixteen, 20, and 7 patients, respectively, were assigned to the 3 groups. The 
patients have been examined annually, and at the time of this report they had 
been followed for 3 to 5 years after treatment. At the 1-year follow-up, 10% (22 
of 221) of the implants had been lost, and at the 2-year follow-up, 18% of the 
implants had been lost (40 of 221; 25% in the graft and 13% in the trial group); 
after that time, no further losses occurred. Life table analysis showed 
cumulative success rates of 82% in the graft group and 96% in the trial group 
after 1 year, and 74% and 87%, respectively, at the final examination after 3 to 
5 years. The failure rate was higher in smokers than in non-smokers. A 
substantial reduction of the grafted bone, especially of onlay grafts, occurred 
early after grafting surgery in many patients. Mean marginal peri-implant bone 
loss was 0.6 mm during the period from prosthesis connection to the 1-year 
follow-up, and from the 1-year to the 3-year follow-up, average peri-implant 
bone loss was 0.3 mm in the graft group and 0.5 mm in the trial group. The 
results corroborated previous findings that patients with severely resorbed 
maxillae have an increased risk of implant failure in comparison to patients 
with good bone quantity and quality. However, in this investigation, practically 
all implant losses occurred during the first 2 years, whereupon a steady state 
seemed to follow for up to 5 years after loading.

PMID: 11280365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Intensive Care Med. 2001 Jan;27(1):146-53. doi: 10.1007/s001340000760.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of stays in intensive care units.

Sznajder M(1), Aegerter P, Launois R, Merliere Y, Guidet B, CubRea.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Medical Informatics, Hospital Ambroise Paré, 
Boulogne, France.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate patient outcome and the efficiency of stays in intensive 
care units (ICUs).
DESIGN: Prospective study.
SETTING: Seven ICUs of teaching hospitals in the Paris area.
PATIENTS: Two hundred eleven stays including one in three consecutive patients 
admitted from September to November 1996.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For each patient, the following information was 
collected during the ICU stay: diagnosis, severity scores, organ failures, 
workload, cost and mortality. A cost-effectiveness ratio was computed for 176 
stays with at least one organ failure, at hospital discharge and 6 months later. 
Quality of life was measured with EuroQol questionnaires 6 months after 
discharge in 64 patients representing 62 % of the patients contacted. The mean 
total ICU cost per stay was US$ 14,130 (+/- 6,550) (higher for 
non-survivors--US$ 19,060, median 10,590--than for survivors US$ 12,370, median 
5,780). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US$ 1,150 per life-year 
saved and the incremental cost-utility ratio was US$ 4,100 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) saved, without discounting. These results compare favourably 
with other health-care options. However substantial variations were observed 
according to age, severity, diagnosis, number of organ failures and discount 
rate. Intoxication had the lowest ratio (US$ 620/QALY) and acute renal 
insufficiency the highest (US$ 30,625/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: This work provides medical and economic information on ICU stays in 
teaching hospitals and enables comparisons with other health-care options.

DOI: 10.1007/s001340000760
PMID: 11280626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Nephrol. 2001 Jan-Feb;14(1):43-7.

Gitelman's syndrome (familial hypokalemia-hypomagnesemia).

Barakat AJ(1), Rennert OM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Nephrology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, DC, USA. aybarakat@aol.com

Gitelman's syndrome (GS) is a heritable renal disorder characterized by 
hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia and hypocalciuria, and distinct from Bartter's 
syndrome (BS). As compared to those with BS, patients with GS present at an 
older age, and they have a milder clinical picture, normal or slightly decreased 
concentrating ability, reduced urinary excretion of calcium, and permanently 
decreased serum magnesium level. GS is caused by defective NaCl transport in the 
distal convoluted tubule, and linked to the gene encoding the thiazide sensitive 
Na-Cl-cotransporter located on chromosome 16q. Patients with BS, on the other 
hand, have mutations in the transporters in the thick ascending loop of Henle 
(NKCC2, ROMK, and C1C-Kb). Treatment of GS consists of magnesium salt 
replacement. Long term prognosis in terms of maintaining growth, preserving 
renal function and life expectancy is excellent.

PMID: 11281344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Int J Sports Med. 2001 Feb;22(2):138-43. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-11337.

Growth changes in the elastic properties of human tendon structures.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Kawakami Y, Fukanaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the growth changes in the elastic 
properties of human tendon structures. 9 younger boys (age 10.8 +/- 0.9 years, 
YBG), 9 elder boys (14.8 +/- 0.3 years, EBG), and 14 young adult men (24.7 +/- 
1.6 years, ADG) volunteered to take part in the present study. Using a B-mode 
ultrasonic apparatus, the elongation of tendon and aponeurosis of vastus 
lateralis muscle (VL) was noninvasively measured in vivo, while subjects 
performed the extension of knee joint isometrically with force production levels 
from zero (relax) to maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) within 5 seconds. A 
curvilinear relationship was found between elongation of tendon structures (dL) 
and muscle force (Fm). This relationship consisted of two components, a steep 
initial change in length followed by a linear-region. The relationship between 
dL and Fm was fitted to a linear regression, and then the dL and dFm within 50 
to 100% MVC was defined as compliance of tendon structures. The MVC force was 
the greatest in ADG and the lowest in YBG among the three groups. Significant 
age-related differences were found in compliance; 4.1 +/- 0.9 x 10(-2) mm/N for 
YBG, 2.9 +/- 1.1 x 10(-2) mm/N for EBG and 1.8 +/- 0.3 x 10(-2) mm/N for ADG. 
The dL/thigh length (TL) was significantly greater in YBG than in the other two 
groups above 0.35 MPa of Fm per muscle cross-sectional area (muscle stress). 
However, there was no significant difference between EBG and ADG in the 
relationship between dL/TL and muscle stress. The ratio of fascicle length to TL 
in YBG was significantly lower than those in the other two groups. These results 
suggest that the tendon structures in younger boys are more compliant than those 
in older boys and young men. The observed properties of tendon structures in the 
younger boys may play a role in protecting younger boys from athletic injuries 
associated with immature muscle-tendon complex.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-11337
PMID: 11281617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Hand Surg Br. 2001 Apr;26(2):151-4. doi: 10.1054/jhsb.2000.0511.

The sequelae of reflex sympathetic dystrophy.

Zyluk A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Hand Surgery, Pomeranian Medical University, 
Szczecin, Poland.

Comment in
    J Hand Surg Br. 2002 Feb;27(1):107; author reply 107-8.

This paper presents the results of a retrospective analysis of 94 patients who 
were assessed at a mean of 11 months after successful treatment of reflex 
sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) of the hand. Fifty-four percent still complained of 
pain related to the weather, and many complained of cold intolerance (44%), 
slight pain after use (34%), nail and hair growth changes (34%), sensory 
disturbances (34%) and stiffness of fingers in the morning (28%). There were 
also complaints of reduced finger extension, pain and loss of movement in the 
shoulder joint and hand swelling after use, and 78% of patients had 
significantly reduced grip strength. These results suggest that, in spite of 
resolution of the acute RSD problem, significant long term sequelae of RSD 
continue to impair function of the hand in a proportion of patients.

DOI: 10.1054/jhsb.2000.0511
PMID: 11281669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2001 Apr;56(4):B180-6. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/56.4.b180.

Biomarkers of aging: prediction of longevity by using age-sensitive T-cell 
subset determinations in a middle-aged, genetically heterogeneous mouse 
population.

Miller RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan School 
of Medicine, Ann Arbor 48109-0940, USA. millerr@umich.edu

Seven T-cell subset values were measured in each of 559 mice at 8 months of age, 
and then again in the 494 animals that reached 18 months of age. The group 
included virgin males, virgin females, and mated females, and it was produced by 
using a four-way cross-breeding system that generates genetic heterogeneity 
equivalent to a very large sibship. An analysis of covariance showed that four 
T-cell subsets-CD4, CD4 memory, CD4 naïve, and CD4 cells expressing 
P:-glycoprotein-were significant predictors (p <.003) of longevity when measured 
at 18 months of age after adjustment for the possible effects of gender and 
mating. The subset marked by CD4 and P:-glycoprotein expression showed a 
significant interaction effect: this subset predicted longevity only in males. 
Among subsets measured when the mice were 8 months of age, only the levels of 
CD8 memory cells predicted longevity (p =.016); the prognostic value of this 
subset was largely limited to mated females. A cluster analysis that separated 
mice into two groups based upon similarity of T-cell subset patterns measured at 
18 months showed that these two groups differed in life expectancy. 
Specifically, mice characterized by relatively low levels of CD4 and CD8 memory 
cells, high levels of CD4 naïve cells, and low levels of CD4 cells with 
P:-glycoprotein (64% of the total) lived significantly longer (50 days = 6%; p 
<.0007) than mice in the other cluster. The results are consistent with the 
hypothesis that patterns of T-cell subsets vary among mice in a manner than can 
predict longevity in middle age, and they suggest that these subsets may prove 
to be useful for further studies of the genetics of aging and age-sensitive 
traits.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/56.4.b180
PMCID: PMC7537444
PMID: 11283189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Plant Cell. 2001 Apr;13(4):829-41. doi: 10.1105/tpc.13.4.829.

IAA17/AXR3: biochemical insight into an auxin mutant phenotype.

Ouellet F(1), Overvoorde PJ, Theologis A.

Author information:
(1)Plant Gene Expression Center, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, California 94710, 
USA.

The Aux/IAA genes are rapidly and specifically induced by the plant hormone 
auxin. The proteins encoded by this gene family are short-lived nuclear proteins 
that are capable of homodimerizing and heterodimerizing. Molecular, biochemical, 
and genetic data suggest that these proteins are involved in auxin signaling. 
The pleiotropic morphological phenotype and altered auxin responses of the 
semidominant axr3-1 mutant of Arabidopsis result from a single amino acid change 
in the conserved domain II of the Aux/IAA protein IAA17. Here, we show that the 
biochemical effect of this gain-of-function mutation is to increase the 
half-life of the iaa17/axr3-1 protein by sevenfold. Intragenic mutations that 
suppress the iaa17/axr3-1 phenotype have been described. The iaa17/axr3-1R3 
revertant contains a second site mutation in domain I and the iaa17/axr3-1R2 
revertant contains a second site mutation in domain III. Transient expression 
assays show that the mutant forms of IAA17/AXR3 retain the ability to accumulate 
in the nucleus. Using the yeast two hybrid system, we show that the iaa17/axr3-1 
mutation does not affect homodimerization. However, the iaa17/axr3-1 revertants 
counteract the increased levels of iaa17/axr3-1 protein by decreasing the 
capacity of the mutant protein to homodimerize. Interestingly, 
heterodimerization of the revertant forms of IAA17/AXR3 with IAA3/SHY2, another 
Aux/IAA protein, and ARF1 or ARF5/MP proteins is affected only by changes in 
domain III. Collectively, the results provide biochemical evidence that the 
revertant mutations in the IAA17/AXR3 gene affect the capacity of the encoded 
protein to dimerize with itself, other members of the Aux/IAA protein family, 
and members of the ARF protein family. By extension, these findings may provide 
insight into the effects of analogous mutations in other members of the Aux/IAA 
gene family.

DOI: 10.1105/tpc.13.4.829
PMCID: PMC135541
PMID: 11283339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Stroke. 2001 Apr;32(4):964-72. doi: 10.1161/01.str.32.4.964.

Health-related quality of life after stroke a comprehensive review.

Tengs TO(1), Yu M, Luistro E.

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, University of California, Irvine, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We performed a comprehensive review of all 
quality-of-life (QOL) estimates for stroke appearing in the peer-reviewed 
literature between 1985 and 2000. We examine variation in QOL weights and the 
rigor of methods used to assess QOL and discuss the implications for 
cost-utility assessment and resource allocation decisions.
METHODS: Through a systematic search, we identified 67 articles that met our 
inclusion criteria. A team of trained researchers read each article and followed 
detailed guidelines to extract QOL weights and other parameters. This effort 
yielded 161 QOL estimates for stroke-related health states. All estimates were 
measured on a 0 to 1 scale, with 0 representing the worst outcome and 1 
representing the best.
RESULTS: QOL estimates range from -0.02 to 0.71 (n=67) for major stroke, from 
0.12 to 0.81 (n=14) for moderate stroke, from 0.45 to 0.92 (n=38) for minor 
stroke, and from 0.29 to 0.903 (n=42) for general stroke. Although QOL should 
decrease with severity, there were many instances in which the QOL for major 
stroke as reported by one study exceeded the QOL for moderate stroke as reported 
by another. The same reversal was found for moderate and minor stroke, and it 
occurred even when both authors used similar assessment methods and subject 
populations. Authors of cost-utility and decision analyses rarely base their 
choice of QOL weights on their own primary data (19%). When obtaining weights 
from secondary sources, some authors (23%) chose QOL weights for a severity of 
stroke that did not match the severity for which they sought data.
CONCLUSIONS: QOL estimates for stroke vary greatly and are not always estimated 
in sound fashion. This impedes the comparability and quality of the 
cost-effectiveness studies that use these QOL weights and hampers good resource 
allocation decisions.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.32.4.964
PMID: 11283398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Cad Saude Publica. 2001 Mar-Apr;17(2):355-65. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2001000200010.

[Demographic profile of the Xavánte Indian population in Sangradouro-Volta 
Grande, Mato Grosso].

[Article in Portuguese]

Souza LG(1), Santos RV.

Author information:
(1)Distrito Sanitário Especial Indígena Xavánte, Fundação Nacional de Saúde, 
Barra do Garças, MT, 78600-000, Brasil. lucienegsouza@uol.com.br

This paper analyzes the demographic profile of the Xavánte population at the 
Sangradouro-Volta Grande Indigenous Reserve in Mato Grosso, Brazil, from 1993 to 
1997. The survey included annual censuses and vital statistics from 7 Xavánte 
villages. Permanent contact with Brazilian national society, established in the 
1940s and 50s, caused a population drop due to epidemics and clashes. In 1995 
there were 825 individuals in the community. The crude birth rate (57.7/1,000) 
and death rate (9.1/1,000) were higher than the national averages. The majority 
(56%) of the population is under 15 years of age (median: 13 years) and the 
infant mortality rate is high (87.1 per thousand live births), probably 
resulting from precarious sanitary conditions in the villages. Other results 
included the persistence of polygyny; low levels of migration; a dynamic of 
splits and formation of new villages; traditional housing patterns maintained in 
the old villages and abandoned in the new ones. The recent demographic recovery 
in the data from Sangradouro-Volta Grande is similar to that observed in the 
Pimentel Barbosa community. The study highlights the importance of 
systematically collecting and analyzing demographic data from indigenous 
populations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2001000200010
PMID: 11283766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Am J Hum Genet. 2001 May;68(5):1110-8. doi: 10.1086/320121. Epub 2001 Mar
28.

Mortality in neurofibromatosis 1: an analysis using U.S. death certificates.

Rasmussen SA(1), Yang Q, Friedman JM.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. skr9@cdc.gov

Although neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a relatively common autosomal dominant 
condition, information about its effect on mortality is limited. We used 
Multiple-Cause Mortality Files, compiled from U.S. death certificates by the 
National Center for Health Statistics, for 1983 through 1997. We identified 
3,770 cases of presumed NF1 among 32,722,122 deaths in the United States, a 
frequency of 1/8,700, which is one-third to one-half the estimated prevalence. 
Mean and median ages at death for persons with NF1 were 54.4 and 59 years, 
respectively, compared with 70.1 and 74 years in the general population. Results 
of proportionate mortality ratio (PMR) analyses showed that persons with NF1 
were 34 times more likely (PMR=34.3, 95% confidence interval [CI] 30.8-38.0) to 
have a malignant connective or other soft-tissue neoplasm listed on their death 
certificates than were persons without NF1. Overall, persons with NF1 were 1.2 
times more likely than expected (PMR=1.21, 95% CI 1.14-1.28) to have a malignant 
neoplasm listed on their death certificates, but the PMR was 6.07 (95% CI 
4.88-7.45) for persons who died at 10-19 years of age and was 4.93 (95% CI 
4.14-5.82) for those who died at 20-29 years of age. Similarly, vascular disease 
was recorded more often than expected on death certificates of persons with NF1 
who died at <30 years of age (PMR=3.26, 95% CI 1.31-6.71 at age <10 years; 
PMR=2.68, 95% CI 1.38-4.68 at age 10-19 years; and PMR=2.25, 95% CI 1.46-3.32 at 
20-29 years) but not in older persons. This study supports previous findings of 
decreased life expectancy for persons with NF1 and, within the limitations of 
death certificates, provides population-based data about NF1 morbidity and 
mortality that are useful to clinicians caring for patients with NF1.

DOI: 10.1086/320121
PMCID: PMC1226092
PMID: 11283797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Acta Orthop Belg. 2001 Feb;67(1):54-9.

Metastatic fractures of the tibia.

De Geeter K(1), Reynders P, Samson I, Broos PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Hospital Pellenberg, 
K.U.Leuven. de_geeter_kristof@hotmail.com

Pathologic fractures of the tibia due to a metastasis are rare. The treatment of 
an established fracture is sometimes conservative, but more often surgical. The 
purpose of the surgical procedure is to improve the quality of life and the 
ambulatory status, to relieve pain and to facilitate activities of daily living 
and nursing care. Four cases of operatively managed metastatic fractures of the 
tibia are presented with emphasis on the surgical technique. The scarce 
literature on metastatic tibial fractures in reviewed. The operative technique 
to be used does not only depend on the location of the tumor but also on the 
primary tumor, the response to adjuvant therapy and the life expectancy. For 
metastatic shaft fractures an intramedullary nail, sometimes augmented with bone 
cement, is preferred. For distal or proximal fractures a compound osteosynthesis 
with plates and screws offers a good solution. In the epiphyseal and metaphyseal 
region of the tibia an amputation or a tumor prosthesis is the procedure of 
choice.

PMID: 11284272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Biosoc Sci. 2001 Apr;33(2):161-72. doi: 10.1017/s0021932001001614.

Quality of care and contraceptive pill discontinuation in rural Egypt.

Ali MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Studies, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.

Indicators of family planning service access and quality were generated using 
the Egypt DHS-I (1988) and the Egypt Service Availability Survey (1989), and 
linked to episodes of contraceptive pill use. Multilevel analysis was used to 
ascertain whether or not these access and quality indicators influence the 
continuation of pill use, net of women's socioeconomic, demographic and 
motivational characteristics. A model with random components at the cluster and 
women levels was fitted for all reasons of discontinuation, except desire for 
pregnancy, at 24 months of use. Net of women's background characteristics, the 
results show that facilities with smaller numbers of health personnel trained in 
family planning, a lack of access to facilities with female doctors and a lack 
of range of available methods are associated with a high risk of discontinuation 
of pill use for all reasons except desire for pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932001001614
PMID: 11284624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Artif Organs. 2001 Mar;25(3):218-22. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1594.2001.025003218.x.

Clinical long-term results of vascular prosthesis sealed with fragmented 
autologous adipose tissue.

Karube N(1), Soma T, Noishiki Y, Yamazaki I, Kosuge T, Ichikawa Y, Takanashi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Saiseikai Yokohama City Nanbu Hospital, 
Yokohama, Japan.

Comment in
    Artif Organs. 2002 Feb;26(2):209-10; author reply 210-1.

Tissue engineering can improve the former limitations of artificial organs. This 
article reports the long-term clinical results of grafts constructed with 
fragmented autologous adipose tissue. We did a retrospective analysis of a 
series of 53 patients with lower leg ischemia that received 69 fragmented 
adipose tissue (FAT) grafts implantation at our institution. The mean follow-up 
period was 36.0 months. After 1, 2, 3, and 5 years, the primary potency rates 
were 85.3, 83.3, 73.8, and 67.7%, respectively. The lumen of occluded areas not 
only at anastomotic sites but also in areas far from the anastomotic sites was 
occupied by a thickened neointima, which had a great number of capillary blood 
vessels, elastic laminae, smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts, and collagen fibers. 
This type of intimal hyperplasia was a characteristic finding in the FAT grafts. 
From the results of this clinical trial, we conclude that the FAT grafts are 
acceptable as vascular prostheses for ischemic lower extremities. The intimal 
hyperplasia at sites far from the anastomotic lines suggested the possibility of 
neointima formation throughout the luminal surface of the grafts.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1594.2001.025003218.x
PMID: 11284890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2001 Jan-Feb;11(1):1-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1438.2001.011001001.x.

Cancer care in women: will the practice of the 20th century be relevant in the 
21st? Presidential address. International Gynecological Cancer Society, October 
25, 2000.

Young RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111, USA. 
RC_Young@fccc.edu

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1438.2001.011001001.x
PMID: 11285027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2001 Jan;96(1):127-31. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762001000100015.

Life cycle and reproductive parameters of Clerada apicicornis signoret 
(Hemiptera: Lygaeidae) under laboratory conditions.

Cárdenas E(1), Morales A, Torres M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Entomología, Instituto Nacional de Salud, Santa Fe de Bogotá, 
Colombia. ecardenas95@latinmail.com

The life cycle of Clerada apicicornis was determined under laboratory 
conditions. Mean development times in days were: egg 27.2, nymph I 12.5, nymph 
II 12, nymph III 13.4, nymph IV 16.4, nymph V 26. The life expectancy of adults 
ranged from 117 to 317 days (mean 196 days). Based on a cohort of 29 females of 
C. apicicornis, a horizontal life table was constructed. The following 
predictive parameters were obtained: net rate of reproduction (Ro = 48.31), 
intrinsic rate of population increase (r(m) = 0.153), generation time (Tc = 
28.20 weeks), and finite rate of population increment (lambda = 1.16). The 
reproductive value (Vx) for each age class of the cohort females was calculated. 
The following observed parameters were calculated after mortality in each stage: 
net rate of reproduction (R'o=13.4), intrinsic rate of population increase (r c' 
=0.09 ), and finite rate of population increment (lambda' =1.1). The generation 
time (Tc' =27.4) was estimated using the methods of Laughlin and Bengstron. A 
vertical life table was elaborated and mortality was described for one 
generation of the cohort.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762001000100015
PMID: 11285484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(3):208-13.

HIV/AIDS and blindness.

Kestelyn PG(1), Cunningham ET Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, 
B-9000 Ghent, Belgium. philippe.kestelyn@rug.ac.be

Comment in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(3):181.

Nearly 34 million people are currently living with HIV/AIDS: ocular 
complications are common, affecting 50% to 75% of all such patients at some 
point during the course of their illness. Cytomegalovirus retinitis is by far 
the most frequent cause of vision loss in patients with AIDS. Although the 
prevalence of cytomegalovirus retinitis is decreasing in industrialized 
countries because of the widespread availability of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy, between 10% and 20% of HIV-infected patients worldwide can be expected 
to lose vision in one or both eyes as a result of ocular cytomegalovirus 
infection. Less frequent but important causes of bilateral vision loss in 
patients with HIV/AIDS include varicella zoster virus and herpes simplex virus 
retinitis, HIV-related ischaemic microvasculopathy, ocular syphilis, ocular 
tuberculosis, cryptococcal meningitis, and ocular toxic or allergic drug 
reactions. At present, most patients with HIV/AIDS in developing countries who 
lose their vision have a very limited life expectancy. As antiretroviral therapy 
makes its way to these countries, however, both life expectancy and the 
prevalence of blindness related to HIV/AIDS can be expected to increase 
dramatically.

PMCID: PMC2566369
PMID: 11285664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(3):267-9.

Applying DALYs to the burden of infectious diseases.

Zou S.

Comment on
    Bull World Health Organ. 2000;78(8):981-94.

PMCID: PMC2566368
PMID: 11285678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Gesundheitswesen. 2001 Feb;63(2):76-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-10950.

[Environmental medicine in public health service--a social responsibility and 
its consequences].

[Article in German]

Thriene B(1).

Author information:
(1)Hygieneinstitut Sachsen-Anhalt, Magdeburg. b.thriene@t-online.de

The special committee for "Environmental Medicine" established by the Federal 
Association of Doctors in the German Public Health Service presents its paper 
entitled "Environmental Medicine in the Public Health Service--A Social 
Responsibility and its Consequences: Propositions with regard to the situation, 
aims, strategies, and opportunities for action". The paper includes core ideas 
and responsibilities in the public health service. It aims at providing a number 
of guidelines for implementing "Environment and Health" ("Umwelt und 
Gesundheit"), an action programme by the Federal Ministry of Environmental 
Protection and the Ministry of Health, as well as "Health 21" ("Gesundheit 21"), 
the framework concept "Health for all" for the WHO's European Region. The paper 
also aims at initiating and facilitating steps for joint action by the Public 
Health Service. These theses were passed on to Mrs. Andrea Fischer, the Federal 
Minister of Health, during a meeting with the Board of the Association. In 
Germany, environment-related public health protection is well established in the 
Public Health Departments and state institutes/departments within the scope of 
public health provision and disease prevention. Typical responsibilities include 
environmental hygiene and environment-related medical services which have 
increased in importance. The range of responsibilities and its current political 
importance are a result of environment-related public health risks, the social 
situation of the population, also with regard to health issues, and the scope of 
responsibilities and competencies by doctors and staff in the public health 
departments. With the people's demands for health, quality of life and life 
expectancy, this need for action increases. In this paper, judicial, 
professional, and personal consequence are presented which arise as public 
health authorities assume these responsibilities.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-10950
PMID: 11285752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Blood. 2001 Apr 1;97(7):2180-1. doi: 10.1182/blood.v97.7.2180.

Splenectomy and hemopoietic stem cell transplantation for myelofibrosis.

Li Z, Gooley T, Applebaum FR, Deeg HJ.

Comment on
    Blood. 1999 May 1;93(9):2831-8.
    Blood. 2000 Apr 1;95(7):2226-33.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v97.7.2180
PMID: 11286221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Science. 2001 Mar 30;291(5513):2536-45. doi: 10.1126/science.291.5513.2536.

Nutrition. The soft science of dietary fat.

Taubes G.

Comment in
    Science. 2001 Aug 3;293(5531):801-4.
    Science. 2002 Feb 22;295(5559):1464-6.

DOI: 10.1126/science.291.5513.2536
PMID: 11286266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Science. 2001 Mar 30;291(5513):2538. doi: 10.1126/science.291.5513.2538.

Nutrition. What if Americans ate less saturated fat?

Taubes G.

DOI: 10.1126/science.291.5513.2538
PMID: 11286267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Trends Mol Med. 2001 Mar;7(3):126-32. doi: 10.1016/s1471-4914(01)01933-5.

Biological effects of growth hormone and its antagonist.

Okada S(1), Kopchick JJ.

Author information:
(1)Edison Biotechnology Institute, Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, and 
Dept of Biomedical Sciences, College of Osteopathic Medicine, Ohio University, 
Athens, OH 45701, USA.

Serum levels of growth hormone (GH) can vary. Low levels of GH can result in a 
dwarf phenotype and have been positively correlated with an increased life 
expectancy. High levels of GH can lead to gigantism or a clinical syndrome 
termed acromegaly and has been implicated in diabetic eye and kidney damage. 
Additionally the GH/IGF-1 system has been postulated as a risk factor for 
several types of cancers. Thus both elevated and suppressed circulating levels 
of GH can have pronounced physiological effects. More than a decade ago the 
first drug of a new class, a GH antagonist, was discovered. This molecule is now 
being tested for its ability to combat the effects of high circulating levels of 
GH. Here, we discuss some of the detrimental actions of GH, and how a GH 
antagonist can be used to combat these effects.

DOI: 10.1016/s1471-4914(01)01933-5
PMID: 11286784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Apr 1;49(5):1317-25. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(00)01514-5.

Local hyperthermia, radiation, and chemotherapy in recurrent breast cancer is 
feasible and effective except for inflammatory disease.

Feyerabend T(1), Wiedemann GJ, Jäger B, Vesely H, Mahlmann B, Richter E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, Medical University of 
Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany. feyerab@stnuk.mu-luebeck.de

PURPOSE: To investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of 
radiochemothermotherapy (triple-modality therapy) in patients with inoperable 
recurrent breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with inoperable recurrent lesions, World Health 
Organization (WHO) performance status of 2 or greater, life expectancy of more 
than 3 months, adequate bone marrow, hepatic and renal function were eligible 
for this Phase I/II study. Conventionally fractionated or hyperfractionated 
radiotherapy (RT) was performed. Once-weekly local hyperthermia (HT) combined 
with chemotherapy (CT; epirubicin 20 mg/m(2), ifosfamide 1.5 g/m(2)) was applied 
within 30 min after RT.
RESULTS: Twenty-five patients, all heavily pretreated (18/25 preirradiated), 
received a mean total dose of 49 Gy. The median number of HT/CT sessions was 4. 
Skin toxicity was low, whereas bone marrow toxicity was significant (leucopenia 
Grade 3/4 in 14/1 patients). The overall response rate was 80% with a complete 
response (CR) rate of 44%. Response rates in patients with noninflammatory 
disease (n = 14; CR 10 patients, partial response [PR] 3 patients) were far 
better than in patients with inflammatory disease (n = 11; CR 1 patient, PR 6 
patients).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with recurrent breast cancer, triple-modality therapy 
is feasible with acceptable toxicity. High remission rates can be achieved in 
noninflammatory disease, however, local control is limited to a few months. 
Whether the addition of chemotherapy has a clear-cut advantage to 
radiothermotherapy alone remains an open question.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(00)01514-5
PMID: 11286840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Apr;12(4):431-5. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61880-6.

A randomized, prospective evaluation of the Tesio, Ash split, and Opti-flow 
hemodialysis catheters.

Richard HM 3rd(1), Hastings GS, Boyd-Kranis RL, Murthy R, Radack DM, Santilli 
JG, Ostergaard C, Coldwell DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Division of Interventional Radiology, 
University of Maryland Medical Systems, Baltimore, MD, USA. 
howard.richard@umm.edu

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2002 Mar;13(3):342-3.

PURPOSE: A randomized, prospective evaluation of three high-flow hemodialysis 
catheters.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ninety-four patients were randomly assigned 113 Tesio, 
Ash split, and Opti-flow catheters from December 1998 through June 1999. 
Insertion times, procedural complications, and ease of insertion were recorded. 
Mean catheter flow rates were recorded at first dialysis, 30 days, and 90 days. 
Patency, catheter survival, and catheter-related infections were evaluated.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight Ash split, 39 Opti-flow, and 36 Tesio catheters were 
placed. Tesio mean insertion time (41.5 min) was significantly longer than Ash 
split (29.4 min) or Opti-flow (29.6 min) (P =.004). There were four 
complications related to Tesio catheters (three cases of pericatheter bleeding, 
one air embolism), one related to an Opti-flow catheter (pericatheter bleeding), 
and zero related to Ash split catheters. Opti-flow and Ash split catheters were 
significantly easier to insert than Tesio catheters (P =.041). Mean flow rates 
were not significantly different among the catheters initially (P =.112), at 30 
days (P =.281), or at 90 days (P =.112). Catheter-related infection rates per 
100 catheter days were 0.12 for Ash split, 0.35 for Opti-flow, and 0.14 for 
TESIO: Median catheter survival was 302 days for Ash split, 176 days for 
Opti-flow, and 228 days for TESIO:
CONCLUSIONS: Opti-Flow and Ash split catheters were faster and easier to place 
than Tesio catheters. There was no difference in hemodialysis flow rates or 
catheter survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61880-6
PMID: 11287528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Apr;12(4):455-8. doi:
