10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61884-3.

Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of liver tumors with the LeVeen probe: is 
roll-off predictive of response?

Arata MA(1), Nisenbaum HL, Clark TW, Soulen MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Interventional Radiology, Department of Radiology, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

PURPOSE: The LeVeen radiofrequency (RF) probe uses roll-off of electrical 
impedance as the endpoint for RF cautery of hepatic tumors. The purpose of this 
study is to determine the relation of roll-off to local control of hepatic 
tumors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty hepatic tumors, including 10 hepatomas and 10 
metastases, were treated. Lesions ranged from 1.4 cm to 6.0 cm in diameter; 13 
(57%) were smaller than 3.0 cm. Each lesion was ablated with use of the LeVeen 
15-gauge RF needle according to the manufacturer's protocol. Five patients 
underwent chemoembolization the day before. Patients were followed up with 
contrast-enhanced computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging at 1 month 
and every 3 months thereafter.
RESULTS: Among the 20 lesions, roll-off was achieved at all burn locations in 11 
(55%), no burn locations in eight (40%), and two of three burn locations in one 
(5%). Roll-off was observed in all patients who had undergone chemoembolization 
the day before. Six local recurrences occurred, five after RF ablation without 
roll-off and one after RF ablation with roll-off. According to life-table 
analysis, the local recurrence rate at 6 months without roll-off was 43% and 
with roll-off was 15% (P =.024; OR = 8.3; 95% CI = 0.93-66).
CONCLUSION: Roll-off is a significant predictor of local control after RF 
ablation. Strategies to enhance roll-off, such as concurrent embolization, may 
be important to optimize the therapeutic effect of this device.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61884-3
PMID: 11287532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Health Econ. 2001 Apr;10(3):187-205. doi: 10.1002/hec.590.

Equity considerations in health care: the relevance of claims.

Cuadras-Morat칩 X(1), Pinto-Prades JL, Abell치n-Perpi침치n JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Centre for Health Economics, Universitat Pompeu 
Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.

The general issues of equity and efficiency are central to the analysis of 
resource allocation problems in health care. We examine them using axiomatic 
bargaining theory. We study different solutions that have been proposed and 
relate them to previous literature on health care allocation. In particular, we 
focus on the solutions based on axiomatic bargaining with claims, and show that 
they are appealing as distributive criteria in health policy. Finally, we 
present the results of a survey that tries to elicit moral intuitions of people 
about resource allocation problems and their different solutions.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.590
PMID: 11288186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Pflege Aktuell. 2001 Jan;55(1):28-30.

[Why do men die at a younger age?].

[Article in German]

Stolz H.

PMID: 11288497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 2000;89 Suppl 214:7-36.

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy in acute necrotizing infections. With a special 
reference to the effects on tissue gas tensions.

Korhonen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Turku, Finland.

Clostridial gas gangrene and perineal necrotizing fasciitis or Fournier's 
gangrene are rare but serious infections with an acute onset, rapid progression, 
systemic toxemia and a high mortality rate. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the efficacy of surgery, antibiotic treatment, surgical intensive 
care and in particular the role of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) in the management of 
these infections. An experimental rat model was used to investigate the 
possibilities for measuring tissue oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions during 
hyperbaric oxygen treatment. In addition to this preliminary experimental study, 
Silastic tube tonometer and capillary sampling techniques were tested to measure 
the effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment on subcutaneous oxygen and carbon 
dioxide tensions in patients with necrotizing fasciitis and healthy controls. 
Between January 1971 and April 1997, 53 patients with Clostridial gas gangrene 
were treated in the Department of Surgery, University of Turku. The patients 
underwent surgical debridement, broad spectrum antibiotic therapy and a series 
of hyperbaric oxygen treatments at 2.5 atmospheres absolute pressure (ATA). 
Twelve patients died (22.6%). Hyperbaric oxygen therapy in gas gangrene seems to 
be life-, limb- and tissue saving. Early diagnosis remains essential. Patient 
survival can be improved if the disease is recognized early and appropriate 
therapy instituted promptly. Between February 1971 and September 1996, 33 
patients with perineal necrotizing fasciitis were treated in the Department of 
Surgery, University of Turku. The management included surgical debridement of 
the necrotic tissue with incisions and drainage of the involved areas, 
antibiotic therapy, hyperbaric oxygen treatment at 2.5 ATA pressure and surgical 
intensive care. Three patients died giving a mortality rate of 9.1%. The 
survivors received hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 2-12 times. Our results 
indicate that hyperbaric oxygenation is an important therapeutic adjunct in the 
treatment of Fournier's gangrene. Electrical equipment should not be used 
unsheltered in a hyperbaric chamber due to the increased risk of fire. The 
subcutaneous tissue gas tensions of rats were therefore measured using a 
subcutaneously implanted Silastic tube tonometer and a capillary sampling 
technique. The method was succesfully adapted to hyperbaric conditions. The 
subcutaneous oxygen tension levels increased five fold and the carbon dioxide 
tension levels two fold compared to intial levels. The PO2 and PCO2 of 
subcutaneous tissue and arterial blood were measured directly in six patients 
with necrotizing fasciitis and three healthy volunteers in normobaric conditions 
and during hyperbaric oxygen exposure at 2.5 ATA pressure. The measurements were 
carried out in healthy tissue and at the same time in the vicinity of the 
infected area of the patients. During HBO at 2.5 ATA subcutaneous oxygen 
tensions increased several fold from baseline values and carbon dioxide tensions 
also increased, but to a lesser degree in both healthy and infected tissues. 
When examining the subcutaneous PO2 levels measured from patients with 
necrotizing fasciitis, the PO2 was regularly higher in the vicinity of the 
infected area than in healthy tissue. In general, HBO treatment resulted in a 
marked increase in tissue oxygenation in both healthy tissue and in the vicinity 
of infected tissue. The hyperoxygenated tissue zone surrounding the infected 
area may be of significance in preventing the extension of invading 
microorganisms.

PMID: 11288993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Lancet. 2001 Mar 24;357(9260):917-21. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04212-4.

Changes in life expectancy in Russia in the mid-1990s.

Shkolnikov V(1), McKee M, Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
Shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Jun 23;357(9273):2058.
    Lancet. 2001 Aug 25;358(9282):669-70.
    Lancet. 2001 Aug 25;358(9282):669; author reply 670.

BACKGROUND: Between 1987 and 1994, life expectancy in Russia declined 
substantially. Between 1994 and 1998, this trend reversed, and mortality rates 
returned to those of the early 1980s. Although the decline in life expectancy 
has been examined previously, much less is known about the subsequent 
improvement in mortality rates. We used recently published cause-specific 
mortality data up to 1998 to clarify this issue.
METHODS: Changes in cause-specific death rates at ages 15-74 years were 
examined. Rates for 1998 were compared with those for 1994 (the year of lowest 
life expectancy) and for 1991 (the year the Soviet Union broke up).
FINDINGS: Death rates among children fell steadily throughout the 1990s, and 
those in elderly people changed little. The reduction in mortality since 1994 
was mainly due to a decrease in the death rate among middle-aged adults, which 
had increased until 1994. Deaths among those aged 15-30 years, which rose during 
1991-94, remained high. Some causes of death, such as stomach cancer and 
road-traffic accidents, declined throughout the 1990s, whereas others, such as 
breast and prostate cancers and tuberculosis, increased. The decline in 
mortality since 1994 was, however, mainly due to a reduction in the rate of 
deaths from a group of causes associated with alcohol consumption.
INTERPRETATION: The changing life expectancy in Russia is a consequence of a 
complex pattern of trends in different causes of death, some of which have their 
origins long in the past, and others that result from contemporary 
circumstances. This study provides further support for the view that alcohol has 
played an important part in the fluctuations in life expectancy in Russia in the 
1990s, although there remains a need for a much better understanding of the 
factors underlying these continuing changes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04212-4
PMID: 11289348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Semin Surg Oncol. 2001 Jan-Feb;20(1):50-6. doi: 10.1002/ssu.1016.

Adjuvant treatment of brain metastases.

Lohr F(1), Pirzkall A, Hof H, Fleckenstein K, Debus J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Radiology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany. frank lohr@med.uni-heidelberg.de

With an incidence of 15/10(5) in the general population, brain metastases 
constitute a serious, debilitating complication in cancer patients. The majority 
of those patients suffer from more than one metastasis, but up to 30% to 40% 
present with a solitary lesion. Whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) extends median 
survival from 1 to 2 months for treatment with steroids only, to 4 to 6 months 
in most series. However, long-term survival (>1-2 years) is observed in up to 
10% of patients with favorable prognostic factors, such as solitary lesions, 
good Karnofsky performance status, and absence of extracranial disease. For 
those patients, individually optimized treatment is worthwhile. For 
good-prognosis patients with controlled extracranial disease, surgery in 
combination with postoperative WBRT should be considered, especially when fast 
relief of symptoms is mandated. For surgically inaccessible solitary lesions 
below a size threshold of approximately 30 ccm, stereotactic radiosurgery (RS), 
although never compared to surgery in a randomized fashion, seems to yield 
comparable results and is the treatment of choice for more than one lesion in 
appropriately selected patients. Nevertheless, a number of questions concerning 
the optimal treatment regimens for brain metastases remain. These mainly concern 
the radiation dose, need for a combination of RS and WBRT, relative timing of 
different treatment modalities, and maximum number of brain metastases that can 
reasonably be treated with RS when long-term progression-free survival is the 
goal. However, RS is definitely an excellent option for salvage and palliation 
in patients with short life expectancy, as it is simultaneously noninvasive and 
cost-effective, with short hospitalization times.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.1016
PMID: 11291132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Am J Public Health. 2001 Apr;91(4):652-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.91.4.652.

Further thoughts on burden of disease methods in Pakistan.

Nanan D, White F.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 2000 Aug;90(8):1235-40.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.91.4.652
PMCID: PMC1446640
PMID: 11291387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Eur Respir J. 2000 Dec;16(6):1056-60. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.2000.16f06.x.

A model for predicting life expectancy of children with cystic fibrosis.

Aurora P(1), Wade A, Whitmore P, Whitehead B.

Author information:
(1)Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital NHS Trust, London, UK.

In this study the authors aimed to produce a model for predicting the life 
expectancy of children with severe cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease. The 
survival of 181 children with severe CF lung disease referred for 
transplantation assessment 1988-1998 (mean age 11.5 yrs, median survival without 
transplant 1.9 yrs from date of assessment) were studied. Proportional hazards 
modelling was used to identify assessment measurements that are of value in 
predicting longevity. The resultant model included low height predicted forced 
expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), low minimum oxygen saturation (Sa,O2min) 
during a 12-min walk, high age adjusted resting heart rate, young age, female 
sex, low plasma albumin, and low blood haemoglobin as predictors for poor 
prognosis. Extrapolation from the model suggests that a 12-yr old male child 
with an FEV1 of 30% pred and a Sa,O2min of 85% has a 44% risk of death within 2 
yrs (95% confidence interval (CI) 35-54%), whilst a female child with the same 
measurements has a 63% risk of death (95% CI 52-73%) within the same period. The 
model produced may be of value in predicting the life expectancy of children 
with severe cystic fibrosis lung disease and in optimizing the timing of lung 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.2000.16f06.x
PMID: 11292105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Science. 2001 Apr 13;292(5515):288-90. doi: 10.1126/science.1059497. Epub
2001  Apr 5.

Regulation of longevity and stress resistance by Sch9 in yeast.

Fabrizio P(1), Pozza F, Pletcher SD, Gendron CM, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biogerontology, Andrus Gerontology Center, and Department of 
Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-0191, USA.

The protein kinase Akt/protein kinase B (PKB) is implicated in insulin signaling 
in mammals and functions in a pathway that regulates longevity and stress 
resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans. We screened for long-lived mutants in 
nondividing yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and identified mutations in adenylate 
cyclase and SCH9, which is homologous to Akt/PKB, that increase resistance to 
oxidants and extend life-span by up to threefold. Stress-resistance 
transcription factors Msn2/Msn4 and protein kinase Rim15 were required for this 
life-span extension. These results indicate that longevity is associated with 
increased investment in maintenance and show that highly conserved genes play 
similar roles in life-span regulation in S. cerevisiae and higher eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1059497
PMID: 11292860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Science. 2001 Apr 6;292(5514):104-6. doi: 10.1126/science.1057991.

Extension of life-span by loss of CHICO, a Drosophila insulin receptor substrate 
protein.

Clancy DJ(1), Gems D, Harshman LG, Oldham S, Stocker H, Hafen E, Leevers SJ, 
Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Wolfson House, 4 Stephenson 
Way, London NW1 2HE, UK.

Comment in
    Science. 2001 Apr 6;292(5514):41-3.

The Drosophila melanogaster gene chico encodes an insulin receptor substrate 
that functions in an insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling pathway. 
In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, insulin/IGF signaling regulates adult 
longevity. We found that mutation of chico extends fruit fly median life-span by 
up to 48% in homozygotes and 36% in heterozygotes. Extension of life-span was 
not a result of impaired oogenesis in chico females, nor was it consistently 
correlated with increased stress resistance. The dwarf phenotype of chico 
homozygotes was also unnecessary for extension of life-span. The role of 
insulin/IGF signaling in regulating animal aging is therefore evolutionarily 
conserved.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1057991
PMID: 11292874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Science. 2001 Apr 6;292(5514):107-10. doi: 10.1126/science.1057987.

A mutant Drosophila insulin receptor homolog that extends life-span and impairs 
neuroendocrine function.

Tatar M(1), Kopelman A, Epstein D, Tu MP, Yin CM, Garofalo RS.

Author information:
(1)Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA., University of Massachusetts, 
Amherst, MA 01003, USA. Marc_Tatar@Brown.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2001 Apr 6;292(5514):41-3.

The Drosophila melanogaster gene insulin-like receptor (InR) is homologous to 
mammalian insulin receptors as well as to Caenorhabditis elegans daf-2, a signal 
transducer regulating worm dauer formation and adult longevity. We describe a 
heteroallelic, hypomorphic genotype of mutant InR, which yields dwarf females 
with up to an 85% extension of adult longevity and dwarf males with reduced late 
age-specific mortality. Treatment of the long-lived InR dwarfs with a juvenile 
hormone analog restores life expectancy toward that of wild-type controls. We 
conclude that juvenile hormone deficiency, which results from InR signal pathway 
mutation, is sufficient to extend life-span, and that in flies, insulin-like 
ligands nonautonomously mediate aging through retardation of growth or 
activation of specific endocrine tissue.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1057987
PMID: 11292875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Psychol Rep. 2001 Feb;88(1):160-70. doi: 10.2466/pr0.2001.88.1.160.

A preliminary study of hormone replacement therapy and psychological mood states 
in perimenopausal women.

Boyle GJ(1), Murrihy R.

Author information:
(1)Bond University, Department of Psychiatry, University of Queensland.

Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for perimenopausal women has been suggested to 
minimize the physical symptoms of menopause and improve mood and psychological 
functioning; however, the therapy remains controversial. In this study the 
effects of such therapy (comprising tablets, patches, and implants) on mood 
states was investigated within a sample of 70 perimenopausal women who were 
attending a family planning clinic within the Brisbane metropolitan area. On a 
battery of standardized questionnaires, including the General Health 
Questionnaire, the Profile of Mood States, the Eysenck Personality 
Questionnaire, and the Menstrual Distress Questionnaire, those 35 women who were 
using hormone replacement therapy prescribed by the clinic physician reported 
significantly lower scores on anxiety, insomnia, and somatic symptoms than did a 
comparable group of 35 untreated perimenopausal women. These findings provide 
some tentative support for the beneficial effects of the therapy on physical 
symptoms and psychological mood states related to the onset of menopause. Given 
increased life expectancy, there is a growing need for research into issues of 
aging.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.2001.88.1.160
PMID: 11293022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Feb;32(1):6-7.

[Even capital funding system redistributes income intergenerationally. With ABP 
the elderly bear the costs themselves compared to augmented pensions for the 
younger generations].

[Article in Dutch]

Dekkers G(1).

Author information:
(1)Federaal Planbureau, Kunstlaan 47-49, 1000 Brussel. gd@plan.be

PMID: 11293843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. P R Health Sci J. 2000 Dec;19(4):357-68.

[Health in Puerto Rico in the 20th century].

[Article in Spanish]

Rigau-P칠rez JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Hist칩ricas, Facultad de Humanidades, Recinto de R칤o 
Piedras, Universidad de Puerto Rico.

The evolution in physical condition, life expectancy at birth, and access to 
preventive and curative services rapidly improved the quality of life of Puerto 
Ricans in the twentieth century. The population quadrupled to almost 4 million 
inhabitants and the crude mortality rate fell from 38 per thousand in 1900 to 
7.7 per thousand in 1997, with its most dramatic change (18.6 to 6.7) occurring 
from 1941 to 1960. The great promoters of health were the general increase in 
socioeconomic level, improvements in infrastructure, and vaccines; its great 
scourges were infectious diseases (from hookworm to AIDS) and social 
dislocations, such as the war of 1917 (accompanied by epidemics and hunger) or 
the present war between illicit drug distributors. This article summarizes the 
events in the century related to health and its political and economic contexts, 
the developments in public health structures and health care, professional 
education, volunteer organizations, campaigns against infectious diseases, 
chronic causes of mortality, and environmental problems. Bringing the capacity 
to defend public health to the level of sophistication available for clinical 
care is one of the vital challenges of the twenty-first century for Puerto Rico.

PMID: 11293888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2001 Mar 15;113(5-6):149-53.

[Dementia--the price for increased life expectancy?].

[Article in German]

Weyerer S.

Comment on
    Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2001 Mar 15;113(5-6):172-80.

PMID: 11293941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2001 Mar 15;113(5-6):172-80.

[Projections in the incidence of dementia in Austria for the years 1951 to 
2050].

[Article in German]

Wancata J(1), Kaup B, Krautgartner M.

Author information:
(1)Universit칛tsklinik f칲r Psychiatrie, Wien, Osterreich. 
johannes.wancata@akh-wien.ac.at

Comment in
    Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2001 Mar 15;113(5-6):149-53.

Because of the increasing life expectancy it is generally assumed that the 
number of demented individuals will steeply rise in the next decades. Dementia 
is a main reason for requiring extensive nursing care. Therefore, estimations of 
the future number of demented subjects in Austria are necessary for planning 
appropriate services. Since the age structure of the Austrian population has 
already changed during the last decades, the development of the number of 
demented individuals during the last five decades is compared with the 
estimations for the next five decades. These estimations are based on the 
population projections for Austria and on all available international 
meta-analyses of prevalence and incidence surveys. Estimations of the number of 
people suffering from dementia and of those developing dementia within one year 
are presented for the period between 1951 and 2050. In 1951, the number of 
dementia sufferers was 35,500; by 2050 this number will increase to 233,800. At 
present, 90,500 elderly people with dementia live in Austria. Thus, in the next 
decades, the number of people suffering from dementia will rise more steeply 
than the in the past. If the projected life expectancy leads to a prolonged 
duration of illness the number of dementia sufferers will be markedly higher. On 
the other hand, the working force will decrease in the next decades. Therefore, 
while in 1951 there were 120 employable persons per demented person, in 2050 
there will be only 17 employable persons per demented person. Extensive planning 
of the future care of demented people is an urgent necessity.

PMID: 11293946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser. 2000;898:i-v, 1-43.

Home-based long-term care.

WHO Study Group.

Life expectancy is increasing in many parts of the world. Not only are more 
people living to old age, but more are also being enabled to live with disabling 
conditions that once might have been fatal. People who are chronically ill, 
those with serious disabilities, people with HIV/AIDS, mentally ill individuals, 
the victims of accidents and disasters, the elderly--many of these, and others, 
need continuing care and support. As the number of people in need of long-term 
care continues to grow worldwide, consideration of the best way to meet this 
need is receiving much more focus. The aim of such care is not simply to look 
after the sick but to enable those with long-term illnesses or disabilities to 
live their lives as fully and as rewardingly as possible. Such care is not just 
a social responsibility; it is a vital element in development. 
Institutionalization is often not the most suitable form of long-term care. The 
home, where the patient lives with family members, and where friends and other 
members of the community are not far away, is frequently more appropriate. This 
report by an international WHO Study Group examines the options. It points 
clearly to the benefits that home-based care offers to the patient, while 
stressing that the personal and health needs of caregivers in the home must not 
be compromised. Home-based long -term care has been practised by families for 
centuries, and family members will always remain a valuable resource for care. 
This report argues that it is time for health systems to take responsibility for 
providing caregivers in families and communities with the support they need both 
to help make their tasks more bearable and to bring a greater share of benefit 
to the patient.

PMID: 11294171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2000 Dec;93 Spec No 4:13-7.

[Epidemiology of type II diabetes, diagnosis, prevalence, risk factors, 
complications].

[Article in French]

Eschw칟ge E(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unit칠 258, 16, avenue Paul-Vaillant-Couturier, 94807 Villejuif et 
facult칠 de m칠decine Paris XI-63, rue Gabriel-P칠ri, 94276 Le Kremlin-Bic칡tre.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes varies from 1.1% in sub-Saharian Africa to 
3.3% in developing countries and to 5.6% in the industrialised countries, which 
brings the number of diabetics in the world to 135 millions. The projections of 
the WHO suggest a 35% increase in the prevalence of diabetes. This increase is 
explained by a progressively more sedentary life style, the overabundant and 
attractive food sources, the increase in life expectancy leading to diabetogenic 
ageing and, more specifically for Europe, the baby-boom effect after the Second 
World War, and finally, the changes in diagnostic criteria (fasting glucose > or 
= 1.26 g/L (7 mM) on two occasions, serum glucose > or = 2 g/L 2 hours after a 
loading dose of 75 g of glucose, in terms of prevalence of diagnosis and the 
prediction of specific diabetic complications). Age, birth weight (over or 
underweight) and heredity are established non-modifiable risk factors, whereas 
it is possible to change high risk behaviour, overweight, the syndrome of 
insulin resistance and hyperglycaemia. The major role of hyperglycaemia in the 
specific microangiographic complications of diabetes which are aggravated by 
hypertension, has been established. Hyperglycaemia does not seem to be a major 
risk factor in macroangiographic complications, especially coronary artery 
disease, in contrast to smoking, hypertension and certain lipid or fibrinolytic 
abnormalities. Epidemiological analysis of diabetes shows its invalidating 
feature, especially in terms of fatal vascular risk, which may be attenuated by 
correction of all associated metabolic abnormalities. The progression of the 
incidence of diabetes should alert the physician to be more attentive in the 
diagnosis and management of diabetes, especially with regards to early dietary 
intervention.

PMID: 11296457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2001 Feb-Apr;31(1-2):119-45. doi: 
10.1023/a:1006746807104.

The lipid world.

Segr칠 D(1), Ben-Eli D, Deamer DW, Lancet D.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Molecular Genetics, Crown Human Genome Center, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

The continuity of abiotically formed bilayer membranes with similar structures 
in contemporary cellular life, and the requirement for microenvironments in 
which large and small molecules could be compartmentalized, support the idea 
that amphiphilic boundary structures contributed to the emergence of life. As an 
extension of this notion, we propose here a 'Lipid World' scenario as an early 
evolutionary step in the emergence of cellular life on Earth. This concept 
combines the potential chemical activities of lipids and other amphiphiles, with 
their capacity to undergo spontaneous self-organization into supramolecular 
structures such as micelles and bilayers. In particular, the documented chemical 
rate enhancements within lipid assemblies suggest that energy-dependent 
synthetic reactions could lead to the growth and increased abundance of certain 
amphiphilic assemblies. We further propose that selective processes might act on 
such assemblies, as suggested by our computer simulations of mutual catalysis 
among amphiphiles. As demonstrated also by other researchers, such mutual 
catalysis within random molecular assemblies could have led to a primordial 
homeostatic system displaying rudimentary life-like properties. Taken together, 
these concepts provide a theoretical framework, and suggest experimental tests 
for a Lipid World model for the origin of life.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006746807104
PMID: 11296516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Med Entomol. 2001 Mar;38(2):253-9. doi: 10.1603/0022-2585-38.2.253.

Winter biology of Aedes albifasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae) from C칩rdoba, 
Argentina.

Fava FD(1), Ludue침a Almeida FF, Almir칩n WR, Brewer M.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Entomol칩gicas de C칩rdoba, Facultad de Ciencias 
Exactas, F칤sicas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de C칩rdoba, Argentina.

Host-seeking females of Aedes albifasciatus (Macquart) were collected from April 
to September 1997, kept under seminatural conditions, and offered sugar solution 
and blood. Daily survival of females ranged from 0.91 to 0.96, with blood fed 
females living longer than sugar fed females. Overall, 43% of engorged females 
completed a gonotrophic cycle, and 15% of them refed and completed a second 
gonotrophic cycle. The life expectancy of females emerging at the end of summer 
was longer than those that emerged during winter. Immature developmental time 
and the developmental threshold were estimated by regression. Embryo development 
was recorded during autumn, winter, and spring, with a duration of 5-9 d. The 
developmental threshold for eggs was estimated to be 2.28 degrees C. Egg 
mortality varied from 0.51 to 0.74. The development time for larva and pupa was 
between 16 and 29 d and was significantly correlated with temperature. The 
developmental threshold for larvae and pupae was estimated to be 4.75 degrees C. 
A greater proportion of females than males emerged when temperatures averaged < 
or = 18 degrees C. Larval and pupal mortality was high at temperatures below the 
developmental threshold. Aedes albifasciatus females remained gonotrophically 
active and immature development continued during winter in C칩rdoba (10 degrees C 
isotherm).

DOI: 10.1603/0022-2585-38.2.253
PMID: 11296832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Rheumatol. 2001 Mar;28(3):648-56.

Rating of arthritis health states by patients, physicians, and the general 
public. Implications for cost-utility analyses.

Suarez-Almazor ME(1), Conner-Spady B.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research, Baylor College of Medicine, Veteran Affairs Medical 
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. mes@bcm.tmc.edu

We elicited preferences for 2 arthritis health states (mild and severe) using 
visual analog scales, time tradeoff, and standard gamble by interviewing 104 
individuals from the general public, 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and 
43 health professionals. The health scenarios were based on attributes described 
in a health status classification instrument, the EuroQol (EQ-5D). In addition, 
we compared the ratings in our survey with those obtained for the same scenarios 
by one of the scoring algorithms used for the EQ-5D (York weights). 
Statistically significant differences were observed in the ratings of the health 
scenarios, mostly for the severe vignette. Most of the variability was related 
to the method employed. The cost-utility ratio for a hypothetical intervention 
varied according to the method employed to determine the utility of the health 
states, from $15,000 to $111,000 US per quality adjusted life year (QALY). 
Patient derived weights resulted in cost-utility ratios that ranged from $39,000 
to $222,000. Our findings show that the methodology used to elicit and analyze 
utilities can have substantial implications in the economic evaluation of 
interventions for patients with RA.

PMID: 11296976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Rheumatol. 2001 Mar;28(3):682-3.

Termination of disease modifying antirheumatic drugs in psoriatic arthritis.

Ujfalussy I, Ko칩 E, Seszt치k M.

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 2002 Apr;29(4):860-1.

Comment on
    J Rheumatol. 2000 Aug;27(8):1922-7.

PMID: 11296986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2000 Dec;40(4):312-8.

Differences in muscle cross-sectional area and strength between elite senior and 
college Olympic weight lifters.

Funato K(1), Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate the profiles of muscle 
cross-sectional area (CSA) and strength capability in relation to lifting 
ability in Olympic weight lifters.
METHODS: The subjects were 8 elite senior lifters (ESL, age=25.2+/-1.3 years, 
height=1.64+/-0.03 m, mass=68.6+/-4.2 kg, mean+/-SEM) and 9 college lifters (CL, 
20.8+/-0.3 years, 1.67+/-0.03 m, 70.53.4 kg) whose predetermined weight classes 
were within the same range. The CSAs of elbow or knee extensor and elbow or knee 
flexor muscles were measured using a B-mode ultrasound apparatus. Concentric and 
eccentric maximal voluntary forces were determined with an isokinetic 
dynamometer at a constant velocity of 1.05 rad/sec.
RESULTS: The best score of the total mass lifted in the snatch and the clean and 
jerk lifts was significantly higher in ESL than in CL even in terms of per unit 
of fat-free mass. There were no significant differences between the two groups 
in fat-free mass, muscle CSA and force values with the exception that ESL 
compared to CL showed significantly greater force in concentric knee flexion. 
However, the ratios of force to muscle CSA (F/CSAs) in concentric and eccentric 
elbow extensions, eccentric knee extension and concentric knee flexion were 
significantly higher in ESL than in CL.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results indicated that the magnitude of muscular 
development in limbs was similar in elite senior and college lifters whose 
predetermined weight classes were within the same range. As compared to college 
lifters, however, elite senior lifters had a higher F/CSA in specific muscle 
action modes, which might relate to the optimal execution of the Olympic lifts.

PMID: 11297001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Appl Occup Environ Hyg. 2001 Mar;16(3):397-404. doi: 10.1080/10473220117074.

Evaluation of organic-vapor respirator cartridge efficiency for hexamethylene 
diisocyanate vapor in the presence of organic solvents.

Dharmarajan V(1), Lingg RD, Myer HE.

Author information:
(1)Bayer Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI)-based polyisocyanates are widely used in 
formulating polyurethane coatings. These polyisocyanates contain a small amount 
of HDI monomer and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists 
(ACGIH) recommends an eight-hour time-weighted average (TWA) threshold limit 
value (TLV) of 5 ppb for HDI. Some polyurethane (PU) paint applicators have used 
air-purifying paint spray respirators with organic vapor cartridges and 
particulate pre-filters. In this study, the effect of typical paint solvents on 
the efficiency of organic vapor cartridges (OVC) for HDI vapor was tested. A 
Teflon-coated polycarbonate exposure chamber was constructed. Three OVCs were 
simultaneously tested in an atmosphere containing HDI vapor and solvents. The 
test atmosphere was generated by evaporating a mixture of paint solvents 
containing n-butyl acetate, propylene glycol mono methyl ether acetate, toluene 
and methyl ethyl ketone, and neat HDI. The target challenge concentrations were 
20 times the TLV for HDI and 10 times the combined TLV for the solvent mixture. 
The test atmosphere, with 20 or 80 percent relative humidity and at room 
temperature, was drawn through each cartridge at 32 L/min for 40 hours. However, 
in the last 8 hours of the test, the atmosphere had only HDI vapor. The pre- and 
the post-cartridge atmospheres were periodically sampled for HDI and the 
solvents. The study concluded that under the test conditions there was no 
detectable breakthrough of HDI from the OVCs. The average calculated efficiency 
of the OVCs, based on the HDI analytical limit of quantitation, was >99.4 
percent for the 40 hours tested. The overall average challenge concentration of 
HDI was 105 ppb and the average combined solvent concentration was 3,176 mg/m3. 
The cartridges were saturated with solvents within the first 10 hours of 
testing; nevertheless, continued challenging with HDI vapor and solvents did not 
show any HDI breakthrough. Solvent breakthrough and breathing resistance, rather 
than HDI breakthrough, would be the key parameters in life expectancy 
calculations for cartridge change out schedules.

DOI: 10.1080/10473220117074
PMID: 11297054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Med J Aust. 2001 Mar 19;174(6):281-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143269.x.

Mortality and life-years lost due to alcohol: a comparison of acute and chronic 
causes.

Chikritzhs TN(1), Jonas HA, Stockwell TR, Heale PF, Dietze PM.

Author information:
(1)National Drug Research Institute (NDRI), Perth, WA. tanya@ndri.curtin.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: (i) To estimate the numbers of deaths and person-years of life lost 
(PYLL) due to high-risk alcohol consumption in Australia during 1997, using 
current estimates of consumption. (ii) To compare the number of deaths and PYLL 
due to acute conditions associated with bouts of intoxication and chronic 
conditions associated with long-term misuse of alcohol.
METHODS: All Australian deaths during 1997 related to conditions considered to 
be partially or wholly caused by high-risk alcohol consumption were extracted 
from the Australian Bureau of Statistics Mortality Datafile and adjusted by 
alcohol aetiologic fractions calculated for Australia in 1997. A life-table 
method was used to estimate the PYLL for deaths from alcohol-caused conditions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Numbers of all deaths and PYLL due to chronic and acute 
alcohol-related conditions.
RESULTS: Of the 3290 estimated alcohol-caused deaths in 1997, chronic conditions 
(eg, alcoholic liver cirrhosis and alcohol dependence) accounted for 42%, acute 
conditions (eg, alcohol-related road injuries and assaults) for 28% and mixed 
(chronic and acute) for 30%. Of the 62914 estimated potential life years lost, 
acute conditions were responsible for 46%, chronic for 33% and mixed for 21%. 
The average number of years of life lost through deaths from acute conditions 
was more than twice that from chronic conditions, because the former mostly 
involved younger people.
CONCLUSIONS: In view of the societal burdens imposed by premature deaths, more 
effective public health strategies are needed to reduce the harm associated with 
occasional high-risk drinking (as well as sustained high-risk drinking), 
especially among young people.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143269.x
PMID: 11297115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. N Engl J Med. 2001 Apr 12;344(15):1111-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200104123441501.

A reevaluation of the duration of survival after the onset of dementia.

Wolfson C(1), Wolfson DB, Asgharian M, M'Lan CE, Ostbye T, Rockwood K, Hogan DB; 
Clinical Progression of Dementia Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada. tinaw@epid.jgh.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Apr 12;344(15):1160-1.

BACKGROUND: Dementia shortens life expectancy; estimates of median survival 
after the onset of dementia have ranged from 5 to 9.3 years. Previous studies of 
people with existing dementia, however, may have underestimated the deleterious 
effects of dementia on survival by failing to consider persons with rapidly 
progressive illness who died before they could be included in a study (referred 
to as length bias).
METHODS: We used data from the Canadian Study of Health and Aging to estimate 
survival from the onset of symptoms of dementia; the estimate was adjusted for 
length bias. A random sample of 10,263 subjects 65 years old or older from 
throughout Canada was screened for cognitive impairment. For those with 
dementia, we ascertained the date of onset and conducted follow-up for five 
years.
RESULTS: We analyzed data on 821 subjects, of whom 396 had probable Alzheimer's 
disease, 252 had possible Alzheimer's disease, and 173 had vascular dementia. 
For the group as a whole, the unadjusted median survival was 6.6 years (95 
percent confidence interval, 6.2 to 7.1). After adjustment for length bias, the 
estimated median survival was 3.3 years (95 percent confidence interval, 2.7 to 
4.0). The median survival was 3.1 years for subjects with probable Alzheimer's 
disease, 3.5 years for subjects with possible Alzheimer's disease, and 3.3 years 
for subjects with vascular dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: Median survival after the onset of dementia is much shorter than 
has previously been estimated.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200104123441501
PMID: 11297701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. N Engl J Med. 2001 Apr 12;344(15):1160-1. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200104123441509.

Aging and the public health effects of dementia.

Kawas CH, Brookmeyer R.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Apr 12;344(15):1111-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200104123441509
PMID: 11297709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Apr;54(4):350-8. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00312-7.

The association between socioeconomic status, health insurance coverage, and 
quality of life in men with prostate cancer.

Penson DF(1), Stoddard ML, Pasta DJ, Lubeck DP, Flanders SC, Litwin MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, 
WA, USA. penson@u.washington.edu

The objective of this study was to examine the effect of socioeconomic status 
and insurance status on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) outcomes in men 
with prostate cancer. The design was a retrospective cohort study using multiple 
sites, including both academic and private practice settings. A cohort of 860 
men with newly diagnosed, biopsy-proven prostate cancer of any stage was 
identified within CaPSURE, a longitudinal disease registry of prostate cancer 
patients. HRQOL was assessed with validated instruments, including the RAND 
36-item Health Survey (SF-36) and the UCLA Prostate Cancer Index. Covariates 
included insurance status, education level, annual income, age, stage, 
comorbidity, Gleason grade, baseline PSA, marital status, ethnicity and primary 
treatment. HRQOL measurements were taken at 3-6-month intervals. Analysis of 
covariance was used to determine the effect of SES and insurance status on the 
HRQOL domains at baseline and over time. Patients with lower annual income had 
significantly lower baseline HRQOL scores in the all of the domains of the SF-36 
and four of eight disease-specific HRQOL domains. No relationship was seen 
between annual income and HRQOL outcomes over time. Conversely, health insurance 
status was associated with HRQOL over time, but not at baseline. Health 
insurance status appears to have a unique effect on general HRQOL outcomes in 
men after treatment for prostate cancer. This study confirms the commonly held 
belief that patients of lower SES tend to have worse quality of life at baseline 
and following treatment for their disease. These findings have important 
ramifications for clinicians, researchers and policy makers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00312-7
PMID: 11297885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Eur J Intern Med. 2001 Apr;12(2):86-97. doi: 10.1016/s0953-6205(01)00121-2.

Renal function and renal disease in the elderly: Part I.

Mulder WJ(1), Hillen HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Maastricht, PO Box 5800, 
6202 AZ, Maastricht, The Netherlands

In all industrialized countries, life expectancy has risen in the past 100 
years. The incidence of elderly patients reaching end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
and requiring renal replacement therapy has also increased. During the past few 
decades, the pattern of ESRD has changed significantly with the emerging 
predominance of elderly patients. The causes of this phenomenon are manifold and 
include an increasing number of chronic diseases typical of the 'third age', 
such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and vascular disease. In many species, a 
consequence of aging includes deterioration of renal function, partly due to 
structural alterations, and partly as the result of a diminishing blood flow. In 
humans, the aging kidney is characterized by modifications resulting from 
organic and functional disturbances. In particular, type 2 diabetes mellitus has 
emerged as an important condition, the microvascular and macrovascular 
complications of which are a common cause of morbidity and mortality in older 
patients. In part I of this review, the morphological and functional changes of 
the aging kidney will be reviewed, as well as the pathological conditions 
leading to the loss of renal function in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/s0953-6205(01)00121-2
PMID: 11297910


851. Trop Med Int Health. 2001 Mar;6(3):170-83. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.2001.00693.x.

Dengue transmission risk maps of Argentina.

Carbajo AE(1), Schweigmann N, Curto SI, de Gar칤n A, Bejar치n R.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Estudio de Mosquitos, Departamento de Ciencias Biol칩gicas, 
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. manimolar@yahoo.com

Dengue is an emerging disease that has become important in Argentina because of 
its vector's presence (Aedes aegypti) and its endemicity in neighbouring 
countries. Thematic maps were built for Argentina considering four main factors: 
population susceptibility to dengue virus infection (population density); 
entrance of the virus from endemic countries (main roads and airports); 
conditions for the vector (urbanization, altitude, minimum, maximum and mean 
daily temperatures) and virus extrinsic incubation period (EIP) completion in 
the mosquito before its death. EIP duration was modelled with a 
temperature-dependent function and considering life expectancies of 10, 15 and 
20 days for the adult mosquito. The results show maximum risk of dengue 
transmission in the northern and north-eastern part of the country year-round 
and in the centre during the summer. Although life expectancy of the adult 
mosquito has a considerable influence on EIP completion, the north-east to 
south-west decreasing gradient is maintained. Assuming 20-day life expectancy, 
the EIP would be completed in almost any region of the country; whereas with 
15-day life expectancy it would be limited to vector distribution area, and at 
10 days it would be restricted to the northern extreme of the country.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.2001.00693.x
PMID: 11299033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Public Health Nutr. 2001 Apr;4(2):163-72. doi: 10.1079/phn200064.

An overview of the health status of migrants in France, in relation to their 
dietary practices.

Darmon N(1), Khlat M.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Sant칠 et de la Recherche M칠dicale/Institut 
Scientifique et Technique de la Nutrition et de l'Alimentation, 5 rue du Vert 
Bois, 75003-Paris, France. darmon@cnam.fr

OBJECTIVE: To review studies on the morbidity, mortality and nutrition of 
migrant populations in France.
DESIGN: A systematic search of the bibliographic database Medline, and direct 
contact with associations and institutions concerned with migrants' health.
RESULTS: In France, as in other host countries, migrants belong to the lowest 
socio-economic strata. They have on average better health and lower mortality 
than the local-born population. Health benefits are particularly noticeable in 
Mediterranean men, especially for affluence-related diseases such as cancer and 
cardiovascular diseases. North African men smoke as heavily as the local-born of 
the same occupational categories, and yet their mortality rates from lung cancer 
are notably lower. Such a paradox may be the result of a synergy between 
different phenomena such as the selection of the fittest applicants for 
immigration and the maintenance of healthy lifestyles from the countries of 
origin. In contrast, migrant women do not enjoy the same health advantages, 
possibly because they are less likely to be selected on the basis of their 
health and because they are often non-working. Adult migrants from southern 
Europe and North Africa report dietary practices consistent with the typical 
Mediterranean diet, which is renowned for its positive effects on health.
CONCLUSIONS: The diet of Mediterranean adults living in France may partly 
explain the low rates of chronic diseases and high adult life expectancy 
observed in migrant men from northern Africa. Information about their diets 
might provide clues for the design of nutritional education campaigns aimed at 
low-income people.

DOI: 10.1079/phn200064
PMID: 11299088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jan-Feb;21(1B):521-8.

p53, p21 and p27 protein expression in head and neck cancer and their prognostic 
value.

Kapranos N(1), Stathopoulos GP, Manolopoulos L, Kokka E, Papadimitriou C, Bibas 
A, Yiotakis J, Adamopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Division of Molecular Pathology, Amalia Fleming 
Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Histological specimens from 62 laryngeal and 31 oral carcinomas were 
immunohistochemically assessed for p53, p21 and p27 proteins; cases with > 10% 
labelled nuclei were considered as positive. p21 showed higher expression in 
patients > 65-years-old (P = 0.04), in chemotherapy responders (P = 0.02), and 
