in stage III patients with longer overall survival (P = 0.02), representing the 
only independent prognostic factor in the multivariate analysis. In addition, 
stage III patients with p53-/p21+ showed the longest survival whereas those with 
p53+/p21- tumors showed the shortest overall survival (P = 0.02). A significant 
influence on the survival of stage III patients was also found for the 
combinations of p21 and p27 proteins with p21+/p27- imparting the best and 
p21-/p27+ the worst prognosis (P = 0.04). p27 expression was significantly 
related to oral cancer specimens (P = 0.04) and to moderate and high tumor grade 
(P = 0.01). p53 expression was not significantly related to any of the examined 
clinicopathological characteristics. Our findings indicated that, by 
functionally promoting apoptosis, p21 seems to play a key role in the successful 
response to chemotherapy and may be considered as a predictive factor of a 
better prognosis in stage III patients with head and neck cancers.

PMID: 11299798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jan-Feb;21(1B):529-34.

Human papilloma virus (HPV) and p53 immunostaining in advanced tonsillar 
carcinoma--relation to radiotherapy response and survival.

Friesland S(1), Mellin H, Munck-Wikland E, Nilsson A, Lindholm J, Dalianis T, 
Lewensohn R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska 
Hospital, S-171 76 Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Human papilloma virus (HPV), which is frequently present in 
tonsillar carcinoma seems to be a prognostically favourable factor for patient 
survival and also for low risk of relapse. Since HPV may abrogate the function 
of wild type p53 and hence influence radiosensitivity we attempted to analyse if 
HPV and p53 status in tonsillar carcinoma affected tumour response to 
radiotherapy (RT) and patient survival.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pre-treatment primary tonsillar carcinoma specimens were 
obtained retrospectively from 40 patients, 21 complete responders (CR) and 19 
non-complete responders (non-CR) of which 38/40 were stage III and IV tumours. 
The paraffin-embedded biopsies were analysed for presence of HPV DNA, by general 
and type specific PCR, and for p53 overexpression by immunohistochemical 
staining with the murine Mab DO-1.
RESULTS: It was possible to analyse HPV in 34 and p53 in 39 patients. Presence 
of HPV DNA (HPV+) and p53 immunostaining (p53+) were not correlated with 
response to RT, since 8/18 CR patients and 6/16 non-CR patients were HPV+ and 
11/21 CR patients and 8/18 non-CR patients were p53+. A tendency towards a 
survival benefit in patients with HPV+ tumours was observed and this tendency 
was significant for patients with stage IV HPV + tumours (p = .0431), and in 
particular HPV+/p53- cancers (p = .0195). A difference in survival between 
patients with p53+ cancer as compared to patients with p53- lesions was not 
demonstrated. In conclusion, although presence of HPV and p53 immunoreactivity 
in tonsillar carcinoma could not be related to RT response, determination of HPV 
and p53 status may still prove useful as predictive/prognostic markers.

PMID: 11299799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jan-Feb;21(1B):575-8.

Glut 1 expression in transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder is 
associated with poor patient survival.

Younes M(1), Juarez D, Lechago LV, Lerner SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Cancer cells show increased glucose uptake compared to normal cells. Glut1 has 
been shown to be expressed in many human cancers, including transitional cell 
carcinoma of the urinary bladder (TCCB). The aim of this study was to determine 
the biologic significance of Glut1 expression, as determined by 
immunohistochemistry, in TCCB. Using the polyclonal anti-Glut1 antibody MYM, 
microwave-aided antigen retrieval, and standard immunoperoxidase ABC technique, 
we immunostained sections of formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue from 
cystectomy specimens from 40 patients with TCCB, who received no adjuvant 
therapy. The percent of positive cancer cells was scored on a semiquantitative 
scale as 1) 0%, 2) 1-10%, 3) 11-25%, 4) 26-50%, 5) 5.1-75%, and 6) > 75%. 
Statistical analysis was performed using the Kaplan-Meier survival method, the 
Log rank test, and Fisher's exact test. Glut1 immunoreactivity was detected in 
58% of the cases. Glut1 expression in > 10% of cancer cells was associated with 
worse patient survival than expression in < 10% of the cancer cells (p = 
0.0064). Tumors with > 10% Glut1-positive cancer cells were more likely to be of 
pT2 stage or higher than tumors with < 10% Glut1-positive cells (100% vs 68%, 
respectively, p = 0.0109), but showed no significant difference in the incidence 
of nodal metastasis (p = 0.4258). Our results suggest that Glut1 expression in 
TCCB is a marker of aggressive biologic potential in patients undergoing 
cystectomy.

PMID: 11299807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jan-Feb;21(1B):589-94.

Re-evaluation of prognostic mitotic figure counting in breast cancer: results of 
a prospective clinical follow-up study.

Biesterfeld S(1), Reitmaier M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Technical University of Aachen, Pauwelsstrasse 30, 
52057 Aachen, Federal Republic of Germany.

Some years ago we were able to confirm reports on the prognostic meaning of 
mitotic figure counting in breast cancer on a retrospective series of 104 breast 
cancer cases (Hum Pathol 26: 47-52, 1995). An independent influence of mitotic 
figure counting on prognosis could be proven in stage I and stage II tumors. 
Using the same methodological approach, the investigation has been repeated 
recently on a prospectively collected series of breast cancer patients (n = 
108). A strong benefit for the patients' outcome was found for patients with 
stage II tumors (p = 0.0093), but not for patients with stage I tumors (p > 
0.05). Regarding the differences between the two studies, most probably the 
effects of therapeutic changes between the late 1970s and the late 1980s and 
aspects of the patients' selection may be responsible.

PMID: 11299810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jan-Feb;21(1B):781-8.

Goserelin (Zoladex) or orchiectomy in metastatic prostate cancer? A quality of 
life and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Nygård R(1), Norum J, Due J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Tromsø, N-9037 Tromsø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: We have today two treatment alternatives (orchiectomy or 
LHRH-analogue) in metastatic prostate cancer offering the same expectations of 
survival. This study documents the quality of life (QoL) and cost-effectiveness 
of these alternatives.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 65 consecutive patients treated at the University Hospital 
of Tromsø (UHT), Norway, between 1994 and 1999 were registered. At evaluation, 
45 patients (LHRH-analogue--15 patients, orchiectomy--30 patients) were alive 
and included in the QoL-study (EORTC QLQ C-30, QoL 15D). 45 patients were 
followed-up at the UHT and included in the cost-analysis. Costs were calculated 
for a 36-month interval and converted to British pounds (1 Pound = 13 NOK). A 5% 
d.r. was employed.
RESULTS: The mean QoL (15D) was 76.4 (orchiectomy) and 72 (LHRH) (0-100 scale). 
Constipation, urinating problems, fatigue, pain and loss of sexual functioning 
were the dominant symptoms. The treatment costs per patient treated were 8,895 
Pounds (orchiectomy) and 10,937 Pounds (LHRH-analogue). The crossover in cost 
was located at 25 months. A sensitivity analysis varying discount rate (0-10%), 
drug charges (25-50% off) and treatment time (12-18 months) did not alter the 
conclusion.
CONCLUSION: Orchiectomy is the treatment of choice when life expectancy is more 
than two years.

PMID: 11299844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Med Arh. 2001;55(1):37-9.

Health inequality in Slovenia.

Artnik B(1), Premik M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubijana, 
Slovenia.

The aim of this study was to correlate some socio-economic factors (gender, 
income, education, social position) with some health indicators (life 
expectancy, death rate by selected causes of death, self-evaluation of one's own 
health, absence from work due to illness or injuries) with a purpose to define 
the ineqaulity in health across Slovenian municipalities. In our study two 
sources of data for the population of Slovenia in 1996 were used: from the 
Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia (aggregated data across Slovenian 
municipalities) and Public Opinion Research (individual data). Statistical 
analysis was performed by correlation and factor analysis. The correlation 
coefficient between education and life expectancy is 0.712. The correlation 
between income base and life expectancy is also significant (0.707). In the 
eastern part of the country (mostly rural population) women in average live 2 
years and men 3 years less than their counterparts in the western part of the 
country. Five causes of death across Slovenian municipalities are significantly 
related to the population's education and incomes, of which only death due to 
neoplasm is positively correlated to income while all other causes are 
negatively correlated not only with income but also with education. Health 
(self-evaluation) is closely related to an individual's education and social 
position. The factor analysis of pressures at work showed groups of two factors 
as being the most significant: pressures related to leadership positions 
(positive correlation with health), and physical labour or work in inferior 
positions (negative correlation with health). We can conclude that the results 
of our study showed the crucial effect of investigated socio-economic factors on 
people's health across Slovenian municipalities. During the present 
socio-economic transition period we are trying to establish new sources of data 
and looking for possibilities to connect and refine them for further 
investigation.

PMID: 11300078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Semin Oncol. 2001 Apr;28(2):207-9. doi: 10.1016/s0093-7754(01)90093-4.

Inequalities in cancer risks.

Tomatis L.

Inequalities in health reflect social inequalities in society. The incapacity of 
our society to eliminate poverty is indeed one of the most blatant examples of 
failure in prevention. Every individual's health history is characterized by 
life-long influences and superimposed short-term factors, but health biographies 
of the rich and the poor show divergences that are the result of the 
accumulation and interaction of a series of events that may be quantitatively 
and qualitatively different. Schematically this could, for example, mean that 
certain individuals, or certain segments of the populations, are exposed more 
frequently and to more hazardous agents than others and/or less frequently to 
protective agents. Sanitary conditions are worse, mortality higher, survival 
rates of cancer patients lower, and life expectancy shorter in developing 
countries than in industrialized countries. The projection of the total number 
of cancer cases in the next decades indicates a general increase, proportionally 
greater in developing than in industrialized countries. Semin Oncol 28:207-209.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.

DOI: 10.1016/s0093-7754(01)90093-4
PMID: 11301384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Semin Oncol. 2001 Apr;28(2):210-6. doi: 10.1016/s0093-7754(01)90094-6.

Cancer: a reality in the emerging world.

Plesnicar S(1), Plesnicar A.

Author information:
(1)Dr J. Cholewa Foundation for Cancer Research, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

World societies have changed significantly in the last decades. The main 
characteristics of these changes are reciprocal connections and 
interdependencies. It has been thus realized that a major part of the world 
population still lives in poverty. Due to specific health care interventions and 
consequent demographic changes, it is expected that the population in general, 
and of the older people in particular, will increase significantly in the 
future. The annual number of new cases of cancer is expected to double from 10 
million at present to 20 million in the next 20 years. Considering the increases 
in life expectancy and in tobacco abuse worldwide, and the existence of viral 
diseases leading to cancer in less developed countries besides other factors, 
the majority of new cases will probably occur in the emerging world. The number 
of new cases of cancer could in the future be reduced with the enhancement of 
education on vertical and horizontal levels in less developed countries. On the 
vertical arm, the education would concentrate on physicians, nurses, and other 
health care workers, while on the horizontal arm, it would be provided to 
government officials, politicians, and other decision-makers. It should be 
accepted that the world is one and that the problems associated with cancer in 
less developed countries are global problems. Semin Oncol 28:210-216.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.

DOI: 10.1016/s0093-7754(01)90094-6
PMID: 11301385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Geriatrics. 2001 Apr;56(4):41-5; quiz 48.

Preventive medicine. When to screen for disease in older patients.

Bloom HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount Sinai School 
of Medicine, New York, USA.

Goals for health promotion and disease prevention in older patients include 
reducing premature mortality caused by chronic and acute illnesses, maintaining 
functional independence, extending life expectancy, and maintaining or enhancing 
quality of life. Determining whether a screen or intervention is warranted 
depends upon several key factors: whether the disease or condition will 
significantly impact a patient's quality of life, whether acceptable methods of 
treatment are available, and implications of delaying treatment. Although most 
diseases progress insidiously and undetected, there is a window of opportunity 
for screening and prevention during the asymptomatic phase. Some of the most 
effective interventions involve lifestyle changes such as smoking cessation and 
regular physical activity.

PMID: 11301722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Oncology (Williston Park). 2001 Mar;15(3):280-91; discussion 291-2, 295-6,
299.

Systemic therapy for older women with breast cancer.

Kimmick GG(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center of Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, USA.

Breast cancer is a common problem in older women. As the number of medical 
illnesses increases with age and the life expectancy decreases, the benefits of 
systemic therapy for women with breast cancer become questionable. All women 
over age 65 years are at high enough risk of breast cancer to consider the 
risk/benefit ratio of preventive therapy with tamoxifen (Nolvadex) or 
participation in the Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) trial. Adjuvant 
chemotherapy and hormonal therapies for early breast cancer significantly 
improve disease-free and overall survival; recommendations for their use are 
based on risk of tumor recurrence. Use of tamoxifen in the adjuvant setting in 
women with receptor-positive tumors is a relatively simple decision in light of 
its favorable toxicity profile. The delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy is a more 
complicated decision, and the patient's wishes, estimated life expectancy, 
presence of comorbid conditions, and estimated benefit from treatment should be 
considered. The primary goal of the treatment of metastatic breast cancer is 
palliation. We discuss trials specific to older women and make appropriate 
treatment recommendations. Unfortunately, there is a paucity of data from 
clinical trials in women over age 70 years. However, because the clinical trial 
is the primary scientific mechanism for testing the efficacy of a treatment, 
every effort should be made to enter older women into treatment protocols.

PMID: 11301828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Health Serv J. 2001 Mar 22;111(5747):34.

Data briefing. Health inequality targets.

Appleby J.

PMID: 11301939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Lakartidningen. 2001 Mar 7;98(10):1084-9.

[Local differences when it comes to average length of life in Sweden. Shortest 
lifespan of women is in industrial regions and of men in big cities].

[Article in Swedish]

Molarius A(1), Janson S.

Author information:
(1)Centrum för folkhälsoforskning, Karlstads universitet.

PMID: 11301974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Neuro Oncol. 2000 Jan;2(1):1-5. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/2.1.1.

Use of horizontal ultrathin gel electrophoresis to analyze allelic deletions in 
chromosome band 11p15.5 in gliomas.

Newsham IF(1), Gorse KM, Rempel SA, Luckey J, Golden JB, Bögler O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Virginia Campus at Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond 23298, USA.

The prognosis for most patients with astrocytic glioma is poor, and 
postoperative life expectancy has not significantly improved in the last decade 
despite advances in diagnosis, surgery, and adjuvant therapy. Progress has been 
made, however, in cataloging the genetic alterations that occur in these tumors. 
Studying the allelic changes using loss of heterozygosity analysis has proven to 
be a reliable and rapid way of identifying genetic alterations fundamental to 
the pathology of this disease. In this study, we used a series of 
fluorescent-labeled markers and a new horizontal ultrathin gel electrophoresis 
technology (HUGE; GeneSys Technologies, Inc.) to analyze loss of heterozygosity 
on 11p15 in a series of 24 matched normal/tumor glioma pairs that included both 
anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastomas. These studies significantly narrowed 
the region harboring a putative 11p15.5 glioma-associated gene and further 
suggest that a second gene involved in the pathogenesis of brain tumors may 
exist, centromeric, in bands 11p15.5-p15.4.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/2.1.1
PMCID: PMC1920693
PMID: 11302248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Neurosurg. 2001 Apr;94(2 Suppl):279-83. doi: 10.3171/spi.2001.94.2.0279.

Spinal stabilization by using crossed-screw anterior-posterior fixation after 
multisegmental total spondylectomy for thoracic chondrosarcoma. Case report.

Doh JW(1), Halliday AL, Baldwin NG, Benzel EC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Soonchunhyang University Hospital, Chonan, Korea.

The authors describe the case of a 41-year-old man with high-grade 
chondrosarcoma who presented with a paraspinous mass extending into three 
thoracic vertebrae (T10-12). Crossfixed long anterior and posterior 
instrumentation was placed after three complete spondylectomies (T10-12). This 
technique augments spinal stability with an outrigger effect by using 
crossfixators placed between paired dorsal rods, as well as between the anterior 
and posterior hardware components. This technique may be used as an alternative 
when multiple vertebrae or all three spinal columns are involved by 
radioresistant malignant tumors in patients in whom there is a relatively long 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2001.94.2.0279
PMID: 11302632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Heart. 2001 May;85(5):539-43. doi: 10.1136/heart.85.5.539.

Cost effectiveness of ramipril treatment for cardiovascular risk reduction.

Malik IS(1), Bhatia VK, Kooner JS.

Author information:
(1)British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Medicine Unit, National Heart and 
Lung Institute, Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, 
DuCane Road, London, W12 0NN, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of ramipril treatment in patients at 
low, medium, and high risk of cardiovascular death.
DESIGN: Population based cost effectiveness analysis from the perspective of the 
health care provider in the UK. Effectiveness was modelled using data from the 
HOPE (heart outcome prevention evaluation) trial. The life table method was used 
to predict mortality in a medium risk cohort, as in the HOPE trial (2.44% annual 
mortality), and in low and high risk groups (1% and 4.5% annual mortality, 
respectively).
SETTING: UK population using 1998 government actuary department data.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per life year gained at five years and lifetime 
treatment with ramipril.
RESULTS: Cost effectiveness was pound36 600, pound13 600, and pound4000 per life 
year gained at five years and pound5300, pound1900, and pound100 per life year 
gained at 20 years (lifetime treatment) in low, medium, and high risk groups, 
respectively. Cost effectiveness at 20 years remained well below that of 
haemodialysis ( pound25 000 per life year gained) over a range of potential drug 
costs and savings. Treatment of the HOPE population would cost the UK National 
Health Service (NHS) an additional pound360 million but would prevent 12 000 
deaths per annum.
CONCLUSIONS: Ramipril is cost effective treatment for cardiovascular risk 
reduction in patients at medium, high, and low pretreatment risk, with a cost 
effectiveness comparable with the use of statins. Implementation of ramipril 
treatment in a medium risk population would result in a major reduction in 
cardiovascular deaths but would increase annual NHS spending by pound360 
million.

DOI: 10.1136/heart.85.5.539
PMCID: PMC1729730
PMID: 11303006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Curr Opin Hematol. 2001 May;8(3):170-87. doi:
10.1097/00062752-200105000-00008.

Hematopoietic growth factors in the older cancer patient.

Balducci L(1), Hardy CL, Lyman GH.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Department of Oncology 
and Medicine, University of South Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, Florida 
33612, USA. Balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

Aging is associated with a progressive decline in the functional reserve of 
multiple organ systems, which may lead to enhanced susceptibility to stress such 
as that caused by cancer chemotherapy. Myelodepression is the most common and 
the most commonly fatal complication of antineoplastic drug therapy and may 
represent a serious hindrance to the management of cancer in older individuals. 
This is already a common and pervasive problem and promises to become more so. 
Currently 60% of all neoplasms occur in persons aged 65 years and older, and 
this percentage is expected to increase as the population ages. This well-known 
phenomenon, sometimes referred to as squaring or the age pyramid, is caused by 
the combination of an increasing life expectancy and a decreasing birth rate. 
This article explores the use of hematopoietic growth factors in the older 
cancer patient after reviewing the influence of age on hemopoiesis and 
chemotherapy-related complications. The issue is examined in terms of 
effectiveness and cost. An outline of the assessment of the older cancer patient 
is provided at the end of the chapter as a frame of reference for clinical 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/00062752-200105000-00008
PMID: 11303151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Osteoporos Int. 2001;12(2):124-30. doi: 10.1007/s001980170144.

A population-based study of fracture incidence in southern Tasmania: lifetime 
fracture risk and evidence for geographic variations within the same country.

Cooley H(1), Jones G.

Author information:
(1)Menzies Centre for Population Health Research, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.

Symptomatic fractures are a significant problem in terms of both morbidity and 
financial cost. Marked variation in both total and site-specific fracture 
incidence has been documented internationally but there is limited 
within-country data. This prospective population-based study documented the 
incidence of all symptomatic fractures occurring from July 1, 1997 to June 30, 
1999 in adults > or =50 years of age resident in Southern Tasmania (total 
population > or = 50 years: 64688). Fractures were ascertained by reviewing 
reports from all the radiology providers within the area. There were 701 
fractures in men and 1309 fractures in women. The corresponding fracture 
incidence in men and women was 1248 and 1916 per 100000 person-years, 
respectively. Residual lifetime fracture risk in a person aged 50 years was 27% 
for men and 44% for women with fractures other than hip fractures constituting 
the majority of symptomatic fracture events. These fracture risk estimates 
remained remarkably constant with increasing age. In comparison to Geelong, 
there were significantly lower hip fracture rates (males: RR 0.59, 95% CI 
0.45-0.76; females: RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.53-0.71) but significantly higher distal 
forearm fractures (males: RR 1.87, 95% CI 1.10-3.78; females: RR 1.31, 95% CI 
1.11-1.55) and total fractures in men (RR 1.31, 95% CI 1.17-1.46) but not women 
(RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.98-1.13). In contrast, Southern Tasmania had lower 
age-standardized rates of all fractures compared with Dubbo (RR 0.28-0.79). In 
conclusion, this study provides compelling evidence that fracture incidence 
varies between different geographic sites within the same country, which has 
important implications for health planning. In addition, the combination of high 
residual fracture risk and short life expectancy in elderly subjects suggests 
fracture prevention will be most cost-effective in later life.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170144
PMID: 11303712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2001 Mar 23;126(12):329-33. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-12094.

[Rare complication of a heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II].

[Article in German]

Scheffold N(1), Schöngart H, Berentelg J, Prager P, Cyran J.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I/Schwerpunkt Kardiologie, Klinikum Heilbronn. 
Norbert.Scheffold@t-online.de

HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDINGS: A 63-year-old man was admitted to a surgery 
department with fracture of the acetabulum and luxation of the hip joint. Eight 
days after intracondylar nail-extension during subcutaneous heparin prophylaxis 
he developed a dramatic deterioration of his condition with severe abdominal 
pain and fever and was admitted to our hospital.
INVESTIGATIONS: White cell count was 12,000/microliter, C-reactive protein 7.90 
mg/dl. CT-scan, abdominal ultrasound, mesenteric angiography and exploratory 
laparotomy revealed no pathological findings. At day 13 abdominal ultrasound 
showed adrenal haemorrhages on the right. Together with a drop in platelet count 
below 50,000/microliter, adrenal haemorrhage caused by heparin-induced 
thrombocytopenia (type II; immunological [HIT II]) was suggested.
THERAPY: After discontinuation of heparin and starting therapy with recombinant 
hirudin and hydrocortisone, a dramatic clinical recovery followed within 24 
hours. One year after the initial diagnosis the patient is in a good condition.
CONCLUSION: When abdominal pain, hypotension and fever occurs with a drop in 
platelet count during heparin therapy HIT II should be considered. An early 
diagnosis is essential for treatment of this life-threatening complication at an 
early stage.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-12094
PMID: 11305201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Neuro Oncol. 2001 Jan;3(1):29-34. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/3.1.29.

Adult medulloblastoma: multiagent chemotherapy.

Greenberg HS(1), Chamberlain MC, Glantz MJ, Wang S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109, USA.

In this study, the records of 17 adult patients with medulloblastoma treated 
with craniospinal radiation and 1 of 2 multiagent chemotherapy protocols were 
reviewed for progression-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity, and the 
patients were compared with each other and with similarly treated children and 
adults. Records of patients treated at 3 institutions were reviewed. Seventeen 
medulloblastoma patients (11 female, 6 male) with a median age of 23 years 
(range, 18-47 years) were treated with surgery, craniospinal radiation (CSRT) 
plus local boost, and 1 of 2 adjuvant chemotherapy regimens. All tumors were 
infratentorial (10 in 4th ventricle and 7 in left or right hemisphere). Ten 
patients presented with hydrocephalus, and 7 of them were shunted. Eight 
patients had gross total resection, 7 had subtotal resection (>50% removed), and 
2 had partial resection (<50% removed). Postoperatively, 3 patients had positive 
cytology and 3 had positive spinal MRI. Five patients were classified as good 
risk and 12 were classified as poor risk (Chang staging system). Ten patients 
were treated with the "Packer protocol," consisting of CSRT plus weekly 
vincristine followed by 8 cycles of cisplatin, lomustine, and vincristine. Seven 
patients were treated with the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) protocol, 
consisting of alternating courses of cisplatin/etoposide and 
cyclophosphamide/vincristine, followed by CSRT. Eight of 17 patients relapsed, 
with all 8 relapsing at the primary site. Other relapse sites included the 
leptomeninges (5), bone (1), and brain (1). The estimated median relapse-free 
survival (Kaplan-Meier) for all patients was 48 months (95% confidence interval, 
>26 months to infinity). Median relapse-free survival for patients on the Packer 
protocol was 26 months, and for those on the POG regimen was 48 months (P = 
0.410). Five of 10 on the Packer protocol were relapse-free, while 4 of 7 were 
relapse-free on the POG regimen. Two patients relapsed during chemotherapy and 6 
relapsed after completing all therapy at 18, 18, 26, 30, 40, and 48 months. The 
estimated median survival of all patients was 56 months (95% confidence 
interval, 27 to infinity) with 11 patients alive; for the Packer protocol, 
median survival was 36 months, and for the POG protocol, it was 57 months (P = 
0.058). The hazard ratio was 0 (95% confidence interval, 0 to infinity). 
Toxicity during the Packer protocol was moderately severe, with only 1 of 10 
patients able to complete all therapy. Two patients had severe abdominal pain 
during CSRT + vincristine, and 5 had peripheral neuropathy during vincristine 
therapy. Hearing loss (>20 dB) occurred in 7, neutropenia (<500 microl) in 6, 
thrombocytopenia (<50,000 microl) in 6, nephrotoxicity (>25% decrease by 
creatinine clearance) in 2, and decreased pulmonary function (diffusing capacity 
for carbon monoxide decrease >40%) in 1. On the POG protocol, only 1 patient had 
persistent nausea and vomiting, 2 had peripheral neuropathy, and 3 had hearing 
deficit (>20 dB) or tinnitus. The POG and Packer protocols did not have a 
statistically significant difference in relapse-free or overall survival because 
of the small sample size. The POG protocol seemed to have less nonhematologic 
toxicity. Adults on the Packer protocol appeared to have shorter median survival 
and greater toxicity than did children. To know whether adding adjuvant 
chemotherapy to craniospinal radiation in adult therapy increases relapse-free 
and overall survival, we must await the results of a larger randomized 
controlled clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/3.1.29
PMCID: PMC1920599
PMID: 11305414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Neuro Oncol. 2001 Jan;3(1):35-41. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/3.1.35.

Interferon-alpha2a and 13-cis-retinoic acid with radiation treatment for 
high-grade glioma.

Dillman RO(1), Shea WM, Tai DF, Mahdavi K, Barth NM, Kharkar BR, Poor MM, Church 
CK, DePriest C.

Author information:
(1)Hoag Cancer Center, Newport Beach, CA 92658, USA.

Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has been safely given concurrently with radiation 
therapy (RT) in treating gliomas. As single agents, both IFN-alpha and 
cis-retinoic acid (CRA) have produced objective tumor regressions in patients 
with recurrent gliomas. In vitro, IFN-alpha2a and CRA enhance radiation therapy 
effects on glioblastoma cells more than either agent alone. This trial was 
conducted to determine the clinical effects of IFN-alpha2a and CRA when given 
concurrently with radiation therapy to patients with high-grade glioma. Newly 
diagnosed patients with high-grade glioma received IFN-alpha2a at a dosage of 3 
to 6 million IU s.c. 4 times a day for 3 days per week and 1 mg/kg CRA by mouth 
4 times a day for 5 days per week during the delivery of partial brain radiation 
therapy at 180 cGy x 33 fractions for 5 days per week for a total of 59.4 Gy 
during the 7-week period. Use of the antiepileptic phenytoin was prohibited 
after observing that the combination of IFN-alpha2a, CRA, and phenytoin was 
associated with a high rate of dermatologic toxicity not seen in a previous 
study with concurrent IFN-alpha2a and radiation therapy. Forty patients (26 men 
and 14 women) with a median age of 60 (range, 19 to 81 years) were enrolled 
between August 1996 and October 1998. Histopathologic diagnoses were 
glioblastoma multiforme or grade 4 anaplastic astrocytoma in 36 patients, and 
grade 3 anaplastic astrocytoma in 4 patients. Only 4 patients (10%) underwent a 
gross total resection of tumor prior to this therapy; 50% were asymptomatic when 
treatment was initiated. The planned 7-week course of concurrent therapy was 
completed by 75% of patients; 30% completed the 16-week course of IFN-alpha and 
CRA alone. At a median follow-up of 36 months, there were 37 deaths, with a 
median overall survival of 9.3 months and a 1-year survival rate of 42%. There 
was no improvement in survival compared with a similar group of 19 patients 
treated with concurrent IFN-alpha2a and radiation therapy in a previous trial. 
In the high-risk group of patients in the present study, concurrent treatment 
with IFN-alpha2a, CRA, and RT was feasible, but was not associated with a better 
outcome compared with a similar patient population treated with radiation 
therapy and IFN-alpha2a, or compared with radiation therapy alone in other 
trials.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/3.1.35
PMCID: PMC1920602
PMID: 11305415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Ital Heart J. 2001 Mar;2(3):181-8.

Medical-economical aspects of high sensitivity C-reactive protein assay for the 
prediction of coronary heart disease. An analysis in Germany and Italy.

Ess SM(1), Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Economics, University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Elevated plasma concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) are 
associated with increased cardiovascular risk. We studied the cost-effectiveness 
of CRP determination in primary and secondary prevention settings in two 
European countries: Germany and Italy.
METHODS: Using a decision analytic model we evaluated the costs and consequences 
of testing or not testing using a high sensitivity (hs)-CRP assay. In a primary 
prevention model we analyzed a hypothetical cohort of 300000 apparently healthy 
men divided into three age groups (35-44, 45-54 and 55-64 years). Individuals 
with CRP levels > 3 mg/l were administered either aspirin or statins according 
to lipid levels. The cohort was followed for 5 years. In the secondary 
prevention model hs-CRP testing was evaluated in a cohort of 10000 patients with 
total cholesterol levels < 4.52 mmol/l and a history of myocardial infarction or 
unstable angina. The two strategies tested were: 1) administer pravastatin only 
to those with high CRP values, and 2) treat all patients. The analysis was 
performed from the societal perspective. Event rates were obtained from 
epidemiological studies and clinical trials.
RESULTS: In the primary prevention model, strategies including testing showed, 
for men aged 45 years and older, cost-effectiveness ratios between each life 
year saved (LYS) and cost savings in Germany equal to 10217euro and between each 
LYS and savings in Italy equal to 16950euro In the age group 35-44 years, 
therapy with aspirin showed cost-effectiveness ratios of 5318euro and 11203euro 
per LYS in Germany and in Italy respectively. The widespread use of statins 
showed an unfavorable cost-effectiveness profile: 44630euro per LYS in Germany 
and 36270euro per LYS in Italy. In the secondary prevention model, hs-testing 
for CRP can reduce the cost-effectiveness of pravastatin from 16400 to 6830euro 
per quality adjusted life year gained. Sensitivity analysis performed on the 
variables test price and costs of cardiovascular events resulted in minimal 
changes of the cost-effectiveness ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: Both in the primary and the secondary prevention settings, 
hs-testing for CRP can better target individuals at higher risk, thus improving 
outcomes and resulting in a more cost-effective strategy.

PMID: 11305529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. J Child Neurol. 2001 Mar;16(3):164-8. doi: 10.1177/088307380101600302.

Pediatric patients with undetectable anticonvulsant blood levels: comparison 
with compliant patients.

Snodgrass SR(1), Vedanarayanan VV, Parker CC, Parks BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
USA. rsnodgrass@chla.usc.edu

Undetectable anticonvulsant blood levels indicate sustained noncompliance 
(several consecutive doses missed). We compared 91 consecutive outpatients with 
epilepsy and undetectable anticonvulsant blood levels to 100 patients seen 
during the same time period, verified as compliant by acceptable serum levels. 
We hypothesized that pay status, application for Supplemental Security Income, 
patient age, history of missed appointments, and functional status would differ 
between compliant and noncompliant patients. We were surprised to find large 
differences between clinic and insurance patients and between Caucasian and 
non-Caucasian patients. The 100 compliant patients included 44 Caucasian and 56 
non-Caucasian patients, whereas only 9 of 91 noncompliant patients were 
Caucasian, and only 9 had insurance, compared to 32 compliant patients. 
Applications for Supplemental Security Income and history of missed appointments 
were significantly associated with noncompliance, but patient age, seizure type, 
and seizure control were not. Uninsured Caucasians were more often compliant 
than non-Caucasians were. Many noncompliant patients had mild epilepsy, which 
was reportedly doing well. Race and pay status were closely correlated. Several 
noncompliant females became pregnant, whereas no compliant patients did. 
Compliant patients were much more likely to be accompanied by a parent or 
caretaker on clinic visits than noncompliant patients. Noncompliant patients had 
at least one acceptable subsequent serum level, although 2 patients with 
intractable epilepsy had undetectable serum levels on three or more occasions. 
Noncompliance may respond to discussion and advice. We reviewed 124 episodes of 
undetectable drug levels in the 91 noncompliant patients. Eighteen of these 
resulted in hospitalization, but in 25 cases, we were told that there had been 
no seizures since the preceding visit. Many noncompliant patients have 
infrequent seizures, even if they take little or no medication. Socioeconomic 
status influences health, life expectancy, and educational success, but it has 
been claimed to be irrelevant to compliance and adherence issues in epilepsy. 
Our data and the experience of other centers with childhood diabetes suggest 
that socioeconomic, racial, and family factors influence compliance or adherence 
to treatment for many chronic conditions. Educational efforts and support for 
parents at the start of anticonvulsant treatment may improve compliance. 
Uninsured patients missed more appointments and were much more likely to be 
noncompliant than insured patients. Attention to the special problems of 
Medicaid and minority children is needed.

DOI: 10.1177/088307380101600302
PMID: 11305683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Am J Cardiol. 2001 Apr 15;87(8):984-8; A4. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01434-5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of long-term moderate exercise training in chronic 
heart failure.

Georgiou D(1), Chen Y, Appadoo S, Belardinelli R, Greene R, Parides MK, Glied S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA. dg274@columbia.edu

The purpose of this study is to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
long-term moderate exercise training (ET) in patients with stable chronic heart 
failure. In particular, the study focuses on the survival analysis and cost 
savings from the reduction in the hospitalization rate in the exercise group. In 
the past 10 years, ET has been shown to be beneficial for patients with stable 
class II and III heart failure in many randomized clinical trials. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of a long-term ET program has not been addressed for outcomes 
related to morbidity/mortality end points or health care utilization. We 
examined the cost-effectiveness of a 14-month long-term training in patients 
with stable chronic heart failure. The estimated increment cost for the training 
group, $3,227/patient, was calculated by subtracting the averted hospitalization 
cost, $1,336/patient, from the cost of ET and wage lost due to ET, estimated at 
$4,563/patient. For patients receiving ET, the estimated increment in life 
expectancy was 1.82 years/person in a time period of 15.5 years, compared with 
patients in the control group. The cost-effectiveness ratio for long-term ET in 
patients with stable heart failure was thus determined at $1,773/life-year 
saved, at a 3% discount rate. Long-term ET in patients with stable chronic heart 
failure is cost-effective and prolongs survival by an additional 1.82 years at a 
low cost of $1,773 per/life-year saved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01434-5
PMID: 11305991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Int J Parasitol. 2001 Apr;31(4):377-83. doi: 10.1016/s0020-7519(01)00117-5.

PCR amplification of putative gpa-2 and gpa-3 orthologs from the (A+T)-rich 
genome of Strongyloides stercoralis.

Massey HC Jr(1), Ball CC, Lok JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, 3800 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6050, USA. 
hmassey@vet.upenn.edu

Two G protein alpha subunit genes orthologous to gpa-2 and gpa-3 in 
Caenorhabditis elegans have been identified in the parasitic nematode, 
Strongyloides stercoralis. These genes mediate chemosensory signal transduction 
regulating dauer arrest in C. elegans. In the parasite, they represent candidate 
mediators for regulation of the choice between free-living and parasitic life 
cycles, the obligatory developmental arrest of infective larvae, and 
reactivation of development after infection. The (A+T) content of these genes is 
72.2% for coding sequences, 90% for introns, and 84.1% for 5' and 3' flanking 
regions, requiring the use of low extension temperatures for long distance PCR. 
The possible significance of conserved structural motifs of these proteins is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7519(01)00117-5
PMID: 11306115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Apr;20(3 Suppl):10-2. doi:
10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00263-x.

The methodologic partnership of effectiveness reviews and cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Russell LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and Aging Research, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901, USA. lrussell@rci.rutgers.edu

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00263-x
PMID: 11306227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Ann Thorac Surg. 2001 Apr;71(4):1164-71. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)02665-5.

Treatment of endocarditis with valve replacement: the question of tissue versus 
mechanical prosthesis.

Moon MR(1), Miller DC, Moore KA, Oyer PE, Mitchell RS, Robbins RC, Stinson EB, 
Shumway NE, Reitz BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, California 94305-5247, USA.

BACKGROUND: It remains unknown whether there is any important clinical advantage 
to the use of either a bioprosthetic or mechanical valve for patients with 
native or prosthetic valve endocarditis.
METHODS: Between 1964 and 1995, 306 patients underwent valve replacement for 
left-sided native (209 patients) or prosthetic (97 patients) valve endocarditis. 
Mechanical valves were implanted in 65 patients, bioprostheses in 221 patients, 
and homografts in 20 patients.
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 18+/-2% and was independent of replacement 
valve type (p > 0.74). Long-term survival was superior for patients with native 
valve endocarditis (44+/-5% at 20 years) compared with those with prosthetic 
valve endocarditis (16+/-7% at 20 years) (p < 0.003). Survival was independent 
of valve type (p > 0.27). The long-term freedom from reoperation for patients 
who received a biologic valve who were younger than 60 years of age was low 
(51+/-5% at 10 years, 19+/-6% at 15 years). For patients older than 60 years, 
however, freedom from reoperation with a biological valve (84+/-7% at 15 years) 
was similar to that for all patients with mechanical valves (74+/-9% at 15 
years) (p > 0.64).
CONCLUSIONS: Mechanical valves are most suitable for younger patients with 
native valve endocarditis; however, tissue valves are acceptable for patients 
greater than 60 years of age with native or prosthetic valve infections and for 
selected younger patients with prosthetic valve infections because of their 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)02665-5
PMID: 11308154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Br J Cancer. 2001 Apr;84 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):24-30. doi:
10.1054/bjoc.2001.1749.

Novel erythropoiesis stimulating protein (NESP) for the treatment of anaemia of 
chronic disease associated with cancer.

Smith RE Jr(1), Jaiyesimi IA, Meza LA, Tchekmedyian NS, Chan D, Griffith H, 
Brosman S, Bukowski R, Murdoch M, Rarick M, Saven A, Colowick AB, Fleishman A, 
Gayko U, Glaspy J.

Author information:
(1)South Carolina Oncology Associates, Suite IA, 1301 Taylor, Columbia, SC 
29201, USA.

Anaemia is a common haematologic disorder in patients with cancer and has a 
multifactorial aetiology, including the effects of the malignancy itself and 
residual effects from previous therapy. Novel erythropoiesis stimulating protein 
(NESP, darbepoetin alfa), a protein with additional sialic acid compared with 
erythropoietin (EPO), stimulates erythropoiesis by the same mechanism as 
recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) but it is biochemically distinct. 
NESP, with its approximately 3-fold greater serum half-life, can maintain 
haemoglobin levels as effectively as rHuEPO in anaemic patients with chronic 
renal failure and do so with less frequent dosing. We investigated the ability 
of NESP to safely increase haemoglobin levels of anaemic patients with 
non-myeloid malignancies not receiving chemotherapy. NESP was administered under 
the supervision of a physician at doses of 0.5, 1.0, 2.25 or 4.5 mcg 
kg(-1)wk(-1)for a maximum of 12 weeks. This report includes 89 patients 
completing the study by November 2000. NESP was well tolerated, with no reported 
dose-limiting toxicities or treatment-related severe adverse events. Increasing 
doses of NESP corresponded with increased efficacy. The percentage (95% 
confidence interval) of patients responding ranged from 61% (42%, 77%) in the 
1.0 mcg kg(-1)wk(-1)group to 83% (65%, 94%) in the 4.5 mcg kg(-1)wk(-1)group.

Copyright 2001 Cancer Research Campaign.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.1749
PMCID: PMC2363901
PMID: 11308271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. JAMA. 2001 Apr 11;285(14):1880-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.285.14.1880.

HIV-associated non-Hodgkin lymphoma: incidence, presentation, and prognosis.

Little RF(1), Gutierrez M, Jaffe ES, Pau A, Horne M, Wilson W.

Author information:
(1)HIV and AIDS Malignancy Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bldg 10, Room 
10S255, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. rlittle@helix.nih.gov

Patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-associated non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma often present with multiple poor prognostic features, including 
significant tumor burden, advanced immunosuppression, and other concurrent 
morbidities. Strategies to manage such complex multiple-disease cases have often 
incorporated the assumption that prospects for long-term survival are poor and 
that intensive therapy cannot be tolerated and so is not justified. Since the 
advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy for human immunodeficiency virus 
infection, life expectancy has improved substantially for patients in whom the 
virus can be successfully suppressed. Thus, for complicated cases involving 
AIDS-associated malignancy, a reassessment of treatment strategies and the 
potential for long-term survival is warranted. Here, we present the case of a 
patient with poor prognosis due to AIDS-associated lymphoma with leptomeningeal 
involvement, advanced immunosuppression, and deep venous thrombosis. The 
management of this case illustrates that a multidisciplinary approach to complex 
AIDS cases involving malignancy and concurrent morbidity can result in a return 
to functional health in affected patients. Successful strategies for achieving 
favorable outcomes currently exist with available therapies.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.285.14.1880
PMID: 11308402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Apr 24;98(9):5072-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.081055898.  Epub 2001 Apr 17.

Estimating risks in declining populations with poor data.

Holmes EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Resource Enhancement and Utilization Technologies Division, Northwest 
Fisheries Science Center, 2725 Montlake Boulevard East, Seattle, WA 98112, USA. 
eli.holmes@noaa.gov

Census data on endangered species are often sparse, error-ridden, and confined 
to only a segment of the population. Estimating trends and extinction risks 
using this type of data presents numerous difficulties. In particular, the 
estimate of the variation in year-to-year transitions in population size (the 
"process error" caused by stochasticity in survivorship and fecundities) is 
confounded by the addition of high sampling error variation. In addition, the 
year-to-year variability in the segment of the population that is sampled may be 
quite different from the population variability that one is trying to estimate. 
The combined effect of severe sampling error and age- or stage-specific counts 
leads to severe biases in estimates of population-level parameters. I present an 
estimation method that circumvents the problem of age- or stage-specific counts 
and is markedly robust to severe sampling error. This method allows the 
estimation of environmental variation and population trends for extinction-risk 
analyses using corrupted census counts--a common type of data for endangered 
species that has hitherto been relatively unusable for these analyses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.081055898
PMCID: PMC33165
PMID: 11309483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Cancer. 2001 Apr 15;91(8 Suppl):1643-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20010415)91:8+<1643::aid-cncr1177>3.0.co;2-i.

Prediction of individual patient outcome in cancer: comparison of artificial 
neural networks and Kaplan--Meier methods.

Bostwick DG(1), Burke HB.

Author information:
(1)Bostwick Laboratories, Richmond, Virginia 23294, USA. 
bostwick@bostwicklaboratories.com

BACKGROUND: There is a great need for accurate treatment and outcome prediction 
in cancer. Two methods for prediction, artificial neural networks and 
Kaplan--Meier plots, have not, to the authors' knowledge, been compared 
previously.
METHODS: This review compares the advantages and disadvantages of the use of 
artificial neural networks and Kaplan--Meier curves for treatment and outcome 
prediction in cancer.
RESULTS: Artificial neural networks are useful for prediction of outcome for 
individual patients with cancer because they are as accurate as the best 
traditional statistical methods, are able to capture complex phenomena without a 
priori knowledge, and can be reduced to a simpler model if the phenomena are not 
complex. Kaplan--Meier plots are of limited accuracy for prediction because they 
require partitioning of variables, require cutting continuous variables into 
discrete pieces, and can only handle one or two variables effectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Artificial neural networks are an efficient statistical method for 
outcome prediction in cancer that utilizes all available powerful prognostic 
