factors and maximizes predictive accuracy. Use of Kaplan--Meier plots for 
predictions is discouraged because of serious technical limitations and low 
accuracy.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20010415)91:8+<1643::aid-cncr1177>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 11309762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Cancer. 2001 Apr 15;91(8 Suppl):1679-87.

Fifteen-year prognostic discriminants for invasive breast carcinoma: National 
Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Protocol-06.

Fisher ER(1), Anderson S, Tan-Chiu E, Fisher B, Eaton L, Wolmark N.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Pathology Center, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: This report updated previous findings, at the 15-year mark, of the 
National Surgical Breast and Bowel Project (NSAPB) Protocol B-06 with respect to 
the treatment of invasive breast carcinoma and the effects of pathologic 
features and the effects of some clinical features on its natural history.
METHODS: Thirty-one pathologic and 6 clinical features that were observed in a 
pathologic subset of 1039 evaluable patients were assessed as to their value in 
predicting survival, in predicting ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR), 
and in predicting the necessity for local breast irradiation after lumpectomy. 
The patients had been randomly assigned to treatment by lumpectomy without local 
irradiation or to treatment by lumpectomy with local irradiation of the breast. 
A traditional and another statistical method were used for this purpose.
RESULTS: Multivariate analyses revealed that the presence of IBTR, race, 
histologic tumor type, nodal status, nuclear grade, and blood vessel invasion 
affected survival independently. Treatment, patient age, nuclear grade, presence 
of intraductal carcinoma, and a lymphocytic tumor infiltrate were features that 
predicted IBTR by multivariate analyses. Irradiation reduced IBTR from 36% to 
12% in the analyzed cohort. A test of interaction failed to reveal any 
pathologic or clinical feature that might have allowed for the omission of local 
irradiation of the breast after lumpectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to the influence of pathologic and clinical features on 
patient survival and IBTR, the site, histopathologic features, and time of 
occurrence of the latter allowed for insights into some important biologic 
considerations concerning invasive breast carcinoma.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

PMID: 11309768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Feb;34(1):38-43. doi: 10.1007/s003910170090.

[Knowledge for prolonging longevity without disability].

[Article in German]

Pientka L(1).

Author information:
(1)Augusta-Kranken-Anstalt gGmbH Medizinisch-Geriatrische Klinik 
Dr.-C.-Otto-Str. 27 44879 Bochum, Germany. lpientka@compuserve.com

The relationship between quality of life and aging is difficult to describe with 
the usual epidemiological concepts like mortality. A functional approach is more 
important and meaningful for the analysis of the aging process. The ICIDH 
classification has the advantage of combining the diseases process itself and 
the consequences concerning functional limitations. Studies about the "active 
life expectancy" show that quality of life and life expectancy are two different 
dimensions of the aging process. For the purpose of prevention, it is important 
to demonstrate that preventive interventions could help reduce the number of 
years with functional limitations. Most of the epidemiological studies indicate 
that even lost functions could be restored. For these interventions, it is 
important to individualize the goals for preventive measures to balance physical 
and emotional needs of the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910170090
PMID: 11310226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Clin Psychiatry. 2001;62 Suppl 6:5-9.

The societal costs of chronic major depression.

Pincus HA(1), Pettit AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and RAND, PA 15213, USA. 
pincusha@msx.upmc.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Psychiatry. 2011 Nov;72(11):e1563-9.

Major depression is a widespread, often chronic disorder affecting the 
individual, his or her family, and society as a whole. It incurs tremendous 
social and financial costs in the form of impaired relationships, lost 
productivity, and lost wages. Although chronic major depression is eminently 
treatable, it continues to be undertreated and underrecognized. This is 
particularly true in primary care settings, where physicians are usually the 
first to encounter chronic depression but are seldom trained to distinguish 
depression from other medical illnesses with similar symptoms. In addition, 
because of the stigma attached to depression, patients often characterize their 
symptoms as part of a physical illness or fail to report them to a clinician at 
all. This article discusses the epidemiology of depression, its impact and 
burden on society, and its special character (including diagnosis and treatment) 
as a chronic illness.

PMID: 11310818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Med Decis Making. 2001 Mar-Apr;21(2):105-12. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100203.

Evaluating quality-adjusted life years: estimation of the health utility index 
(HUI2) from the SF-36.

Nichol MB(1), Sengupta N, Globe DR.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90033, USA.

Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are well recognized as a valid measure for 
outcomes in cost-effectiveness analyses. A summary health utility score is 
necessary to evaluate QALYs. The objective of this study was to predict a 
summary utility score (represented by the Health Utility Index [HUI2]) from 
scores on the SF-36.
METHODS: A structural equation framework was applied to longitudinal data 
collected from 1992 to 1995 on a sample of patients insured by Southem 
California Kaiser Permanente (N = 6921). An ordinary least squares (OLS) method 
was used to estimate the HUI2.
RESULTS: The OLS model on cross-sectional data predicted 50.5% of the observed 
variance in HUI2 scores. Parameter estimates of all SF-36 components showed 
statistical significance at the P < 0.05 level.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study provide a quantitative link between two 
important measures of health status. The present model can be used to estimate 
health utility summary scores in studies that have collected SF-36 data.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100203
PMID: 11310943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Med Decis Making. 2001 Mar-Apr;21(2):87-96. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0102100201.

Reanalysis of unruptured intracranial aneurysm management: effect of a new 
international study on the threshold probabilities.

Aoki N(1), Beck JR, Kitahara T, Ohbu S, Soma K, Ohwada T, Cone RW, Fukui T.

Author information:
(1)Information Research and Planning, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
Texas, USA. naoki@bcm.tmc.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2001 Mar-Apr;21(2):150-1.

OBJECTIVE: This report updates previous clinical decision analysis for patients 
with unruptured intracranial aneurysm (UN-AN) based on newly published data and 
discusses the role of reanalysis in individual decision making.
METHODS: The authors employed probabilities for the natural history of UN-AN and 
results of preventive surgery based on the report by the International Study of 
Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis with Monte 
Carlo simulation and traditional n-way sensitivity analyses were used to assess 
the uncertainty of clinical decisions.
RESULTS: The baseline decision in favor of preventive surgery is reversed by new 
data from the international study. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses revealed 
several populations showing heterogeneity in terms of strategy selection. One- 
and two-way sensitivity analyses detected two important factors for decision 
making: annual rupture rate and utility for knowingly living with UN-AN.
CONCLUSIONS: Annual UN-AN rupture rate and the utility for knowingly living with 
UN-AN are key factors when deciding on a therapeutic strategy. Also, updating 
published decision analyses can improve clinical decision making by integrating 
clinical judgment and newly available clinical data.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100201
PMID: 11310951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Acta Trop. 2001 Mar 30;78(3):217-30. doi: 10.1016/s0001-706x(01)00082-1.

Dog ecology and demography information to support the planning of rabies control 
in Machakos District, Kenya.

Kitala P(1), McDermott J, Kyule M, Gathuma J, Perry B, Wandeler A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of 
Nairobi, PO Box 29053, Nairobi, Kenya.

A study of 150 dog-owning households from six randomly selected sublocations was 
conducted in Machakos District, Kenya. Initially, all households were visited to 
collect information on dog ecology and demography based on WHO guidelines and to 
collect serum for rabies antibody detection. A second visit was made 1 year 
later, to obtain follow-up data on births, deaths, dog movements and other 
events since the first visit. Dog ownership was common, with a range of 53--81% 
(mean=63%) of households owning dogs in the six sublocations. Dog density for 
the five more rural sublocations ranged from 6 to 21 dogs km(-2) and for the 
peri-urban sublocation was 110 dogs km(-2). The dog population was estimated to 
be growing at 9% p.a. (95% C.I. 4--14%). This growth was a function of very high 
fecundity (1.3 females per female per year) more than compensating for high 
mortality, particularly among females. Life expectancy from birth was 3.5 years 
for males and 2.4 years for females. Half the dogs at any one time were less 
than 1 year of age. All dogs, by design of the study, were owned. Of these, 69% 
were never restricted and roamed freely to forage for food and mix with other 
dogs. Only a small proportion of dogs (5%) were fed commercial dog food. Most 
households reported observing dogs scavenging their garbage, including: their 
own dogs (81%), their neighbours' dogs (75%) and unknown dogs (45%). Only 29% of 
dogs at least 3 months of age were reported to be vaccinated against rabies. The 
proportion vaccinated varied widely between sublocations (5--68%); 48% of dogs 
reportedly vaccinated had detectable antibodies, 31% at or above levels 
considered to indicate seroconversion. The proportion of dogs with detectable 
antibodies declined according to the time since last vaccination (55% if 
vaccinated < or = 1 year, 47% < or = 2 years and 36% > 2 years); 20% of dogs 
reported not to have been vaccinated had detectable rabies antibody. Compared to 
other dog populations in rural eastern and southern Africa, Machakos District 
has a high density of dogs. The Machakos dog population is growing, highly 
dynamic, poorly supervised and inadequately vaccinated against rabies. The main 
implication for rabies control is that adequate vaccination coverage is unlikely 
to be achieved, even under optimal delivery, using the current strategy of 
annual vaccination of dogs older than 3 months.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-706x(01)00082-1
PMID: 11311185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Mech Ageing Dev. 2001 Mar;122(3):271-90. doi: 10.1016/s0047-6374(00)00233-5.

A system approach modelling of the three-stage non-linear kinetics in biological 
ageing.

Crevecoeur GU(1).

Author information:
(1)Scientific Glass Institute (InV), 10 Boulevard Defontaine, B 6000 Charleroi, 
Belgium. guibert.crevecoeur@euronet.be

There is a widely observed non-linear kinetics in the ageing of biological 
systems, which is characterised by three successive stages, (1) the ageing rate 
is firstly high, but decreases quickly to a minimum, from which (2) it remains 
nearly constant during the major part of the process until (3) it starts 
increasing again up to the final collapse of the system. Such kinetics are also 
encountered in the ageing of inert systems. It is shown that a model useful for 
the follow-up of operating inert systems allows to find back typical curves and 
laws related to the ageing of biological systems (mortality rate curves, 
survival curves, growth curves, Gompertz law, ...). In this model, ageing is 
seen as a multifactorial process. The classical concepts of lifespan, longevity 
and life expectancy are given new light using the model, which also gives clues 
to explain both the discrepancy in the age of death of individuals in a given 
population and the wide range of lifespans of species encountered in nature. 
Finally, the model shows in which directions accelerated senescence testing 
protocols should be orientated for a better understanding of the underlying 
phenomena and for life prediction purposes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(00)00233-5
PMID: 11311316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2001;75(1-2):75-120. doi:
10.1016/s0079-6107(01)00003-7.

The emergence of life on Earth.

Lahav N(1), Nir S, Elitzur AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Soil and Water Sciences, The Faculty of Agriculture, The Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel. lahav@agri.huji.ac.il

Combined top-down and bottom-up research strategies and the principle of 
biological continuity were employed in an attempt to reconstruct a comprehensive 
origin of life theory, which is an extension of the coevolution theory (Lahav 
and Nir, Origins of Life Evol. Biosphere (1997) 27, 377-395). The resulting 
theory of emergence of templated-information and functionality (ETIF) addresses 
the emergence of living entities from inanimate matter, and that of the central 
mechanisms of their further evolution. It proposes the emergence of short 
organic catalysts (peptides and proto-ribozymes) and feedback-loop systems, plus 
their template-and-sequence-directed (TSD) reactions, encompassing catalyzed 
replication and translation of populations of molecules organized as 
chemical-informational feedback loop entities, in a fluctuating (wetting-drying) 
environment, functioning as simplified extant molecular-biological systems. The 
feedback loops with their TSD systems are chemically and functionally continuous 
with extant living organisms and their emergence in an inanimate environment may 
be defined as the beginning of life. The ETIF theory considers the emergence of 
bio-homochirality, a primordial genetic code, information and the incorporation 
of primordial metabolic cycles and compartmentation into the emerging living 
entities. This theory helps to establish a novel measure of biological 
information, which focuses on its physical effects rather than on the structure 
of the message, and makes it possible to estimate the time needed for the 
transition from the inanimate state to the closure of the first feedback-loop 
systems. Moreover, it forms the basis for novel laboratory experiments and 
computer modeling, encompassing catalytic activity of short peptides and 
proto-RNAs and the emergence of bio-homochirality and feedback-loop systems.

DOI: 10.1016/s0079-6107(01)00003-7
PMID: 11311715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Clin Pediatr Dent. 2000 Summer;24(4):291-7. doi: 
10.17796/jcpd.24.4.74hx7311l705213j.

Comparative evaluation of marginal integrity of two new fissure sealants using 
invasive and non-invasive techniques: a SEM study.

Vineet D(1), Tandon S.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry, College of Dental Surgery, 
Manipal-5761 19, Karnataka, India.

In this era of preventive dentistry, many dental materials used for prevention 
of dental diseases are available. Since last few decades efforts are being 
directed towards prevention of dental caries which is one of the major dental 
diseases tormenting mankind. The main avenues available are plaque control, use 
of systemic and local fluorides and use of fissure sealants. There are many 
factors that contribute towards a successful sealant restoration such as 
properties of enamel, duration of etching, acid used for etching, manipulative 
variables. However, one of the prime factors governing the efficacy and life 
expectancy of a sealant is the marginal adaptability. This study was carried out 
on a total of 40 intact premolar teeth, which were divided in four main groups 
and subjected to evaluation under Scanning Electron Microscope. The parameters 
checked were the width and the number of marginal gaps. The results obtained 
showed that Teethmate had better marginal integrity and favored the use of 
invasive technique over non-invasive technique.

DOI: 10.17796/jcpd.24.4.74hx7311l705213j
PMID: 11314414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. CMAJ. 2001 Apr 3;164(7):1013-4.

Mental health and primary care.

Arboleda-Flórez J(1), Saraceno B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6. 
ja9@post.queensu.ca

PMCID: PMC80930
PMID: 11314431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. CMAJ. 2001 Apr 3;164(7):965-6; author reply 967-8.

Screening for colorectal cancer.

Budenholzer B.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2000 Sep 5;163(5):543-4; discussion 548.

PMCID: PMC80915
PMID: 11314442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. CMAJ. 2001 Apr 3;164(7):968.

Is it health care or is it health?

Dodek P, Chan K, Simon M, Hogg R.

PMCID: PMC80920
PMID: 11314447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Biometrics. 1999 Dec;55(4):1101-7. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01101.x.

Efficient estimation of the distribution of quality-adjusted survival time.

Zhao H(1), Tsiatis AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Rochester, New York 14642, USA. 
zhao@bst.rochester.edu

Quality of life is an important aspect in evaluation of clinical trials of 
chronic diseases, such as cancer and AIDS. Quality-adjusted survival analysis is 
a method that combines both the quantity and quality of a patient's life into 
one single measure. In this paper, we discuss the efficiency of weighted 
estimators for the distribution of quality-adjusted survival time. Using the 
general representation theorem for missing data processes, we are able to derive 
an estimator that is more efficient than the one proposed in Zhao and Tsiatis 
(1997, Biometrika 84, 339-348). Simulation experiments are conducted to assess 
the small sample properties of this estimator and to compare it with the 
semiparametric efficiency bound. The value of this estimator is demonstrated 
from an application of the method to a data set obtained from a breast cancer 
clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01101.x
PMID: 11315054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Biometrics. 1999 Dec;55(4):1108-13. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01108.x.

The two-sample problem with induced dependent censorship.

Huang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA. eugene@fhcrc.org

Induced dependent censorship is a general phenomenon in health service 
evaluation studies in which a measure such as quality-adjusted survival time or 
lifetime medical cost is of interest. We investigate the two-sample problem and 
propose two classes of nonparametric tests. Based on consistent estimation of 
the survival function for each sample, the two classes of test statistics 
examine the cumulative weighted difference in hazard functions and in survival 
functions. We derive a unified asymptotic null distribution theory and inference 
procedure. The tests are applied to trial V of the International Breast Cancer 
Study Group and show that long duration chemotherapy significantly improves time 
without symptoms of disease and toxicity of treatment as compared with the short 
duration treatment. Simulation studies demonstrate that the proposed tests, with 
a wide range of weight choices, perform well under moderate sample sizes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01108.x
PMID: 11315055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Biometrics. 1999 Dec;55(4):1281-5. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01281.x.

Polyhazard models for lifetime data.

Louzada-Neto F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Estadística, Universidade Federal de São Carlos, SP, Brazil. 
dfln@power.ufscar.br

We propose a polyhazard model to deal with lifetime data associated with latent 
competing risks. The causes of failure are assumed unobserved and affecting 
individuals independently. The general framework allows a broad class of hazard 
models that includes the most common hazard-based models. The model accommodates 
bathtub and multimodal hazards, keeping enough flexibility for common lifetime 
data that cannot be accommodated by usual hazard-based models. Maximum 
likelihood estimation is discussed, and parametric simulation is used for 
hypothesis testing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.01281.x
PMID: 11315084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Med Health Care Philos. 2001;4(1):31-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1009934412988.

A new model for the origins of chronic disease.

Barker DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit, Southampton General Hospital, 
Southampton, SO16 6YD, UK.

Comment in
    Med Health Care Philos. 2001;4(1):1-3.

Living things are often plastic during their early development and are moulded 
by the environment. Many human fetuses have to adapt to a limited supply of 
nutrients, and in doing so they permanently change their physiology and 
metabolism. These programmed changes may be the origins of a number of diseases 
in later life, including coronary heart disease, stroke, diabetes and 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009934412988
PMID: 11315417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Public Health Med. 2001 Mar;23(1):3-4. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/23.1.3.

Steering a course around the genetic iceberg.

Edwards RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical and Social Care Research, University of Wales, Bangor. 
r.t.edwards@bangor.ac.uk

A US company is now marketing worldwide, via the Internet, genetic testing for 
predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer. This paper explores some of the 
divergent concerns about the implications of private genetic testing for the 
United States and United Kingdom, with their differing health care systems. As 
the UK National Health Service faces calls for expansion in its genetic services 
to meet growing demand, there is now a need for evaluation of the costs and 
effectiveness of such services so that they may be efficiently targeted to those 
women who can benefit most from them. In the cases of breast and ovarian cancer, 
it is relatively straightforward to calculate the benefits in terms of added 
life expectancy and health-related quality of life resulting from earlier 
diagnosis and treatment of affected women, but these women are likely to be a 
small proportion of the total number of women who are referred or self-refer to 
genetic services. This paper asks how we are to measure and value the benefits 
of information about risk of cancer to a particular woman or to members of her 
family; how we are to measure and value the benefits of effective counselling, 
which encourages autonomous, informed decision-making about whether or not to 
undergo genetic testing, and which facilitates comprehension of complex results; 
and ultimately, in the face of advances in genetic science, how we are to steer 
the NHS around the genetic iceberg.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/23.1.3
PMID: 11315690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Health Phys. 2001 May;80(5):491-6. doi: 10.1097/00004032-200105000-00010.

Impact of comparison group on cohort dose response regression: an example using 
risk estimation in atomic-bomb survivors.

Cologne JB(1), Preston DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Hiroshima, Japan. cologne@rerf.or.jp

Cohort-based dose-response analyses can be biased if based on a comparison group 
that is not comparable to the exposed persons with respect to uncontrolled 
factors related to disease incidence or mortality. When data exist over a range 
of doses including the very low dose region, internal regression standardized 
analyses based on the regression intercept derived from the exposed subcohort 
alone can provide risk estimates that are not subject to such comparison-group 
bias. In the Life Span Study cohort of atomic-bomb survivors, persons with dose 
estimates of zero comprise a broader geographic distribution than that of 
persons with non-zero dose estimates. Because there is geographic variation in 
mortality rates, the zero-dose persons might bias background rate estimates 
thereby affecting inference about radiation risk. This is illustrated using 
mortality due to all causes. Restricting the comparison group to certain 
geographically defined subcohorts resulted in as much as a 6% increase or 8% 
decrease in the risk estimate. This bias can be corrected using an SMR-type 
estimate in the regression model, allowing retention of the comparison group in 
the analysis if it is needed for stability or precision in estimating age, time, 
and sex effects. Consideration of heterogeneity in comparison groups is 
particularly important in dose-response studies focused on low doses at which 
the response may be comparable in magnitude to such heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-200105000-00010
PMID: 11316080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Jpn Circ J. 2001 Apr;65(4):247-50. doi: 10.1253/jcj.65.247.

Coronary lesion morphology and prognosis in young males with myocardial 
infarction with or without familial hypercholesterolemia.

Yasuda T(1), Shimizu M, Ino H, Okeie K, Yamaguchi M, Fujino N, Fujii H, Mabuchi 
T, Mabuchi H, Mizuno S.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Kanazawa 
University, Japan.

The present study examined the angiographic characteristics and prognosis of 
young males under 40 years of age with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and 
familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). The study group was divided into an FH group 
(n=16) and a non-FH group (n=27). Lesion morphology was classified as complex or 
smooth. Overall 36 patients were followed up for an average of 9.4 years. The 
frequency of angiographic normal or nonobstructive culprit lesions was 
significantly higher in the non-FH group (p<0.01). In contrast, the incidence of 
complex or totally occlusive lesions was higher in the FH group (p<0.01). At 
10-year follow-up, survival rates from cardiac death (FH 85% vs non-FH 100%, 
p=0.06), from AMI (FH 43% vs non-FH 80%, p<0.05), and from any ischemic event at 
a new lesion (FH 9% vs non-FH 67%, p<0.01) were all reduced in the FH group. 
These results suggest that the mechanism of AMI in young male patients with FH 
differs from that in similar aged patients without FH, and that the overall 
prognosis of these patients is less favorable.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.65.247
PMID: 11316116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Biosoc Sci. 2001 Jan;33(1):67-86. doi: 10.1017/s0021932001000670.

Aboriginal mortality in Canada, the United States and New Zealand.

Trovato F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, The University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Indigenous populations in New World nations share the common experience of 
culture contact with outsiders and a prolonged history of prejudice and 
discrimination. This historical reality continues to have profound effects on 
their well-being, as demonstrated by their relative disadvantages in 
socioeconomic status on the one hand, and in their delayed demographic and 
epidemiological transitions on the other. In this study one aspect of 
aboriginals' epidemiological situation is examined: their mortality experience 
between the early 1980s and early 1990s. The groups studied are the Canadian 
Indians, the American Indians and the New Zealand Maori (data for Australian 
Aboriginals could not be obtained). Cause-specific death rates of these three 
minority groups are compared with those of their respective non-indigenous 
populations using multivariate log-linear competing risks models. The empirical 
results are consistent with the proposition that the contemporary mortality 
conditions of these three minorities reflect, in varying degrees, problems 
associated with poverty, marginalization and social disorganization. Of the 
three minority groups, the Canadian Indians appear to suffer more from these 
types of conditions, and the Maori the least.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932001000670
PMID: 11316396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Med Care. 2001 May;39(5):409-12. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200105000-00001.

Issues of adherence, penetration, and measurement in physical activity 
effectiveness studies.

Clark DO.

Comment on
    Med Care. 2001 May;39(5):413-24.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200105000-00001
PMID: 11317089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Med Care. 2001 May;39(5):413-24. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200105000-00002.

Economic evaluation of aquatic exercise for persons with osteoarthritis.

Patrick DL(1), Ramsey SD, Spencer AC, Kinne S, Belza B, Topolski TD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington, USA. donald@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2001 May;39(5):409-12.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate cost and outcomes of the Arthritis Foundation aquatic 
exercise classes from the societal perspective.
DESIGN: Randomized trial of 20-week aquatic classes. Cost per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained was estimated using trial data. Sample size was based on 
80% power to reject the null hypothesis that the cost/QALY gained would not 
exceed $50,000.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Recruited 249 adults from Washington State aged 55 to 75 
with a doctor-confirmed diagnosis of osteoarthritis to participate in aquatic 
classes. The Quality of Well-Being Scale (QWB) and Current Health Desirability 
Rating (CHDR) were used for economic evaluation, supplemented by the 
arthritis-specific Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), Center for 
Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D), and Perceived Quality of Life 
Scale (PQOL) collected at baseline and postclass. Outcome results applied to 
life expectancy tables were used to estimate QALYs. Use of health care 
facilities was assessed from diaries/questionnaires and Medicare reimbursement 
rates used to estimate costs. Nonparametric bootstrap sampling of costs/QALY 
ratios established the 95% CI around the estimates.
RESULTS: Aquatic exercisers reported equal (QWB) or better (CHDR, HAQ, PQOL) 
health-related quality of life compared with controls. Outcomes improved with 
regular class attendance. Costs/QALY gained discounted at 3% were $205,186 using 
the QWB and $32,643 using the CHRD.
CONCLUSION: Aquatic exercise exceeded $50,000 per QALY gained using the 
community-weighted outcome but fell below this arbitrary budget constraint when 
using the participant-weighted measure. Confidence intervals around these ratios 
suggested wide variability of cost effectiveness of aquatic exercise.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200105000-00002
PMID: 11317090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2001 Mar;41(1):46-53.

Strength capabilities of knee extensor muscles in junior speed skaters.

Kanehisa H(1), Nemoto I, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: The present study aimed to investigate the gender- and age-related 
profiles of junior speed skaters in strength capabilities during both single and 
repetitive maximal contractions.
METHODS: The subjects were 19 male (age = 17.1 +/- 0.2 years, X +/- SE) and 13 
female skaters (16.9 +/- 0.2 years). Isokinetic knee extension torque (T) 
developed concentrically in a single contraction at three constant velocities of 
1.05, 3.14 and 5.24 rad/sec and 50 repetitive maximal contractions at 3.14 
rad/sec was measured using an isokinetic dynamometer. In addition, a B-mode 
ultrasound apparatus was used to determine the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the 
quadriceps femoris muscle at mid-thigh.
RESULTS: For the junior skaters, T values at three velocities of 1.05, 3.14 and 
5.24 rad/sec and the mean value of isokinetic torque (MT) for every five 
consecutive trials in the first 25 maximal contractions were similar in both 
genders when they were expressed relative to the product of the cross-sectional 
area (CSA) of the quadriceps femoris muscle and lower limb length, T/CSAL and 
MT/CSAL, respectively. However, the males showed significantly higher MT/CSAL 
values than the females in the last 25 repetitions of the endurance test. In the 
comparisons between junior and reference senior skaters, T/CSAL for both genders 
and MT/CSAL for the females showed little age-related difference. For the males, 
however, MT/CSAL values in the first 15 repetitions of the endurance test were 
significantly lower in the junior skaters than in the senior ones.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results indicate that the strength capabilities of 
junior speed skaters in a single maximal contraction will be similar in both 
genders when the difference in muscle size is normalized. However, the junior 
male skaters may be less fatiguable than the junior female ones in repetitive 
maximal contractions. Moreover, the comparison between junior and senior skaters 
suggests that, in postadolescence, males might be more trainable than females to 
improve torque output during short-term repetitive maximal contractions beyond 
that achieved during adolescence.

PMID: 11317147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Vopr Onkol. 2001;47(1):45-8.

[Conservative therapy of I and II stage breast cancer--successful alternative to 
modified radical mastectomy].

[Article in Russian]

Parvanova VM(1), Pandova VV, Garanina ZM.

Author information:
(1)National Oncological Center, Sofia.

A clinical trial was conducted at the Center's Clinic to compare breast 
conserving treatment (quandrantectomy + radiation) (BCT) with modified radical 
mastectomy (M). It included 190 patients with stage I-II carcinoma up to 30 mm 
(BCT with "negative margin"--122; M--68). All the patients had undergone full 
axillary dissection. Mean total dose of 48.8 Gy was delivered to the whole 
breast by means of an external beam. No boost to tumor bed was given. Forty-one 
percent of tumors in the mastectomy group were of medial or central 
localization. The locoregional recurrence rates were significantly different 
(BCT--4.09 vs. M--20.5%; p < 0.001). However, the differences between distant 
metastasis occurrence and 5-year survival were not (BCT--4.91 and 95.6%; 
M--11.76 and 91.8%; p > 0.5, respectively). Nor were they significant for the 
localization/5-year survival relationship: lateral breast tumor--92%, 
medial--100% and central--89% (p > 0.6).

PMID: 11317534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Diabetologia. 2001 Mar;44(3):298-304. doi: 10.1007/s001250051617.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of intensive blood-glucose control with metformin in 
overweight patients with type II diabetes (UKPDS No. 51).

Clarke P(1), Gray A, Adler A, Stevens R, Raikou M, Cull C, Stratton I, Holman R; 
UKPDS Group. United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Institute of Health Sciences, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: To estimate the economic efficiency of intensive blood-glucose 
control with metformin compared with conventional therapy primarily with diet in 
overweight patients with Type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis based on patient level data from a 
randomised clinical controlled trial involving 753 overweight (> 120% ideal body 
weight) patients with newly diagnosed Type II diabetes conducted in 15 
hospital-based clinics in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland as part of the 
UK Prospective Diabetes Study. Subjects were allocated at random to an intensive 
blood-glucose control policy with metformin (n = 342) or a conventional policy 
primarily with diet (n = 411). The analysis was based on the cost of health care 
resources associated with metformin and conventional therapy and the estimated 
effectiveness in terms of life expectancy gained from within-trial effects.
RESULTS: Intensive blood-glucose control with metformin produced a net saving of 
258 Pounds per patient (1997 United Kingdom prices) over the trial period 
(median duration of 10.7 years) due to lower complication costs, and increased 
life expectancy by 0.4 years (costs and benefits discounted at 6%).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: As metformin is both cost-saving in the United 
Kingdom and extends life expectancy when used as first line pharmacological 
therapy in overweight Type II diabetic patients, its use should be attractive to 
clinicians and health care managers alike.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250051617
PMID: 11317659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Insur Med. 2001;33(1):122-3.

Long-term mortality after spinal cord injury.

Singer RB.

PMID: 11317877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Insur Med. 2001;33(1):46-9.

Exercise test on the older patient: is it still as predictive as for the younger 
patient?

Ashley T(1).

Author information:
(1)General & Cologne Life Re of America, Financial Centre, 695 East Main Street, 
Stamford, CT 06901, USA. tashley@gcre.com

Exercise testing predicts both cardiac events and mortality after age 65, just 
as it does for younger patients. In both age groups, functional aerobic capacity 
itself is a potent indicator of mortality risk. In the elderly, achievement of 
predicted functional aerobic capacity identifies favorable mortality even in the 
presence of CAD and CAD risk factors.

PMID: 11317881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Biometrics. 1999 Jun;55(2):530-6. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.00530.x.

Locally efficient estimation of the quality-adjusted lifetime distribution with 
right-censored data and covariates.

van der Laan MJ(1), Hubbard A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, University of California, Berkeley, California 
94720, USA. laan@stat.berkeley.edu

Zhao and Tsiatis (1997) consider the problem of estimation of the distribution 
of the quality-adjusted lifetime when the chronological survival time is subject 
to right censoring. The quality-adjusted lifetime is typically defined as a 
weighted sum of the times spent in certain states up until death or some other 
failure time. They propose an estimator and establish the relevant asymptotics 
under the assumption of independent censoring. In this paper we extend the data 
structure with a covariate process observed until the end of follow-up and 
identify the optimal estimation problem. Because of the curse of dimensionality, 
no globally efficient nonparametric estimators, which have a good practical 
performance at moderate sample sizes, exist. Given a correctly specified model 
for the hazard of censoring conditional on the observed quality-of-life and 
covariate processes, we propose a closed-form one-step estimator of the 
distribution of the quality-adjusted lifetime whose asymptotic variance attains 
the efficiency bound if we can correctly specify a lower-dimensional working 
model for the conditional distribution of quality-adjusted lifetime given the 
observed quality-of-life and covariate processes. The estimator remains 
consistent and asymptotically normal even if this latter submodel is 
misspecified. The practical performance of the estimators is illustrated with a 
simulation study. We also extend our proposed one-step estimator to the case 
where treatment assignment is confounded by observed risk factors so that this 
estimator can be used to test a treatment effect in an observational study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.1999.00530.x
PMID: 11318210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Occup Med. 2001 Apr-Jun;16(2):191-218.

Cancer risk from low-level ionizing radiation: the role of age at exposure.

Richardson DB(1), Wing S, Hoffmann W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill 27599-8050, USA.

This article examines methodological issues related to epidemiologic 
investigations of the influence of age at exposure on radiation risk estimates; 
the epidemiologic literature on the role of age at exposure in radiation-cancer 
associations; and biological mechanisms that may account for associations 
observed in these studies. There is substantial evidence that young children, 
and especially the fetus, are highly vulnerable to ionizing radiation. 
Investigations also suggest that sensitivity may increase at the oldest ages of 
exposure. Further attention to modifying factors in radiation-cancer 
associations, such as age at exposure, may help to protect workers and the 
public by improving our understanding of sensitivity variation within 
populations.

PMID: 11319048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2001 Mar;128(3 Pt 2):390-3.

[Subacute forms of necrotizing fasciitis and necrotizing cellulitis: diagnosis 
criteria and surgical decision-making].

[Article in French]

Chosidow O(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, GH de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Subacute cellulitis could be described as intermediary forms between benign 
erysipelas and life-threatening necrotizing fasciitis with toxic shock syndrome. 
The key point is to consider any cellulitis a possible indication for surgery. 
Subacute cellulitis may occur in the elderly or diabetic patients. Local signs 
(cyanosis, necrosis.) are sometimes isolated. They may occur during the 
evolution of cellulitis requiring a medical treatment. This emphasizes the 
importance of carefully following-up any patient treated by antibiotics for 
cellulitis, i.e. monitoring the extension of erythema (using a felt-pen) and 
atypical local signs. Complementary investigations are especially helpful when 
diagnosing cellulitis requiring a surgical treatment: fine-needle aspirations; 
histology; soft-tissue X-ray; MR imaging that can detect alterations of the 
cutis and fascia, myositis, and abscesses. Surgery can be delayed for such 
patients, allowing for a better preparation. Sometimes, only surgical 
exploration may confirm cellulitis. Lastly, some cases may mimic surgical 
cellulitis but a prolonged course of antibiotics is able to control the disease. 
Abscesses requiring secondary surgical evacuation may complicate all these 
insidious features.

PMID: 11319370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Chir (Paris). 2001 Apr;138(2):68-80.

[The precautionary principle: advantages and risks].

[Article in French]

Tubiana M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre Antoine Béclère, Faculté de Médecine, Paris.

The extension of the precautionary principle to the field of healthcare is the 
social response to two demands of the population: improved health safety and the 
inclusion of an informed public in the decision-making process. The necessary 
balance between cost (treatment-induced risk) and benefit (therapeutic effect) 
underlies all healthcare decisions. An underestimation or an overestimation of 
cost, i.e. risk, is equally harmful in public healthcare. A vaccination should 
be prescribed when its beneficial effect outweighs its inevitable risk. 
Mandatory vaccination, such as in the case of the Hepatitis B virus, is a health 
policy requiring some courage because those who benefit will never be aware of 
its positive effect while those who are victims of the risk could resort to 
litigation. Defense against such accusations requires an accurate assessment of 
risk and benefit, which underlines the importance of expertise. Even within the 
framework of the precautionary principle, it is impossible to act without 
knowledge, or at least a plausible estimation, of expected effects. Recent 
affairs (blood contamination, transmissible spongiform encephalitis by growth 
hormone, and new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease) illustrate that in such 
cases the precautionary principle would have had limited impact and it is only 
when enough knowledge was available that effective action could be taken. 
Likewise, in current debates concerning the possible risks of electromagnetic 
fields, cellular phones and radon, research efforts must be given priority. The 
general public understands intuitively the concept of cost and benefit. For 
example, the possible health risks of oral contraceptives and hormone 
replacement therapy were not ignored, but the public has judged that their 
advantages justify the risk. Estimating risk and benefit and finding a balance 
between risk and preventive measures could help avoid the main drawbacks of the 
precautionary principle, i.e. inaction and refusal of innovation, highly 
restrictive administrative procedures, and a waste of funds on the search for 
the utopian goal of zero risk. Other drawbacks are more insidious. The 
precautionary principle could contribute to a general feeling of anxiety and 
unease in the population. It could be used by campaigns to manipulate public 
opinion in favor of a particular commercial interest or ideology. Furthermore, 
practitioners and public policy makers could be led to make choices not dictated 
by a search for the optimal solution but rather a solution that would protect 
them from future accusations (the so-called umbrella phenomenon). On the 
international level, the precautionary principle must not be used to mask 
protectionism. Nevertheless, a clear advantage of the precautionary principle is 
that it requires decision-makers to explain the rationale behind their 
decisions, to quantify the risks, and to provide objective information. However, 
the physician must not be tempted to make patients sign documents certifying 
that they have been given all relevant information on his or her diagnosis and 
treatment. This example underlines the role of legal texts and jurisprudence in 
the application of the precautionary principle. Finally, the precautionary 
principle implies new obligations for the State. In the field of health and 
healthcare, the State must undertake actions based on fully open and undisguised 
decision-making and provide complete information to the public. A pplication of 
the precautionary principle requires much discernment because the final outcome 
can be beneficial or harmful, depending on the way it is implemented. The 
precautionary principle, and its applications, must be precise and detailed 
within a well-defined framework.

PMID: 11319454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Appl Nurs Res. 2001 May;14(2):110-2. doi: 10.1053/apnr.2001.22379.

Dollars and sense: a primer for the novice in economic analyses (Part II).

Stone PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Center of Research and Evidence-Based Practice at the University of Rochester 
School of Nursing, Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, Rochester, 
NY 14642, USA.

DOI: 10.1053/apnr.2001.22379
PMID: 11319708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Health Technol Assess. 2001;5(6):1-100. doi: 10.3310/hta5060.

General health status measures for people with cognitive impairment: learning 
disability and acquired brain injury.

Riemsma RP(1), Forbes CA, Glanville JM, Eastwood AJ, Kleijnen J.

Author information:
(1)NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Currently there is a wide range of health status measures that aim 
to assess general health status in people with cognitive impairment. However, 
the validity and/or applicability to this patient group are largely unknown. 
This has implications for the assessment of treatment outcomes and 
rehabilitation, for prognostic purposes, for planning services, and for 
determining the benefits and adverse effects of health technologies targeted at 
these patient groups.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To identify the general health status measures that have been 
validated in patients with cognitive impairment. (2) To assess the extent to 
which these measures have been validated. (3) To draw out the implications of 
the findings for the use of existing measures and for future primary research in 
this area. METHODS.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Studies that assessed general health status in people with 
cognitive impairment due to acquired brain injury (traumatic brain injury, 
cerebro-vascular accident or multiple sclerosis (MS)) or learning disability 
(LD) were included in the review. Studies that used general health status 
instruments measuring only one general health dimension, and studies that only 
featured participants with cognitive impairment due to dementia were excluded. 
METHODS.
SEARCH STRATEGY: A wide range of relevant databases were searched for studies on 
cognitive impairment, general health status measures, and validation of health 
status measures. A handsearch of general health status bibliographies was also 
conducted. Data were collected on the general health status measure used, the 
population characteristics, aims of the study, validity details, and 
conclusions.
RESULTS: The review includes data from 71 studies, reported in 83 separate 
publications. In total 34 different general health status measures were 
described in the 83 publications, with the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) and the 
