Short Form-36 (SF-36) the most frequently used measures (20 and 19 studies, 
respectively). These studies included a total of 98 instrument validations, 52 
of which definitely or probably included people with cognitive impairment. Six 
measures were extensively validated (quality scores ranged from 0.25 to 0.5, on 
a scale from 0 to 1) in studies in which more than 50% of the respondents were 
people with cognitive impairment. A further three measures were also validated 
in studies in which more than 50% of the respondents were people with cognitive 
impairment, but their level of validation was more limited (quality scores 
ranged from 0.1 to 0.2). Five measures were validated in studies in which 20-50% 
of the respondents were cognitively impaired, which may limit their relevance to 
participants with cognitive impairment (quality scores ranged from 0.1 to 0.6). 
The SF-36 was also validated in two studies in which 20-50% of the respondents 
were cognitively impaired and the quality score was 0.3. Finally, nine of the 
measures were only validated in studies in which less than 20% of the 
respondents were cognitively impaired. For these measures it was unclear whether 
the findings applied to people with cognitive impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: Very few measures have been validated specifically for cognitively 
impaired respondents. Studies where at least 50% of the respondents were 
cognitively impaired generally showed poorer validity results compared with 
studies with fewer cognitively impaired persons, indicating that general health 
status measures designed for the general population are not automatically 
suitable for people with cognitive impairment. The few measures that were 
specifically developed for people with cognitive impairment also reported poor 
validity results. Therefore, there are no validated instruments available for 
use in cognitively impaired respondents; existing measures, specifically 
designed for use in these populations, should be used with caution. The most 
promising measure is the MS-Quality of Life Interview (MS-QLI) for MS patients. 
The MS-QLI was thoroughly validated in 300 MS patients and the results were 
good, except for the 'social function' subscale. However, only 20-50% of the 
respondents in this study had cognitive impairment. Most information on the 
validity of general health status measures was found in studies among people 
with LD. For these patients, six measures were found that have been validated in 
a populations where more than 50% of the respondents were cognitively impaired 
LD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Existing general health status measures should be used with 
caution in individuals with cognitive impairments. (2) There is no evidence to 
indicate the most suitable general health status measure for use in economic 
evaluations of cognitive impairment. (3) There is little evidence to support the 
validity of proxy assessments in cognitively impaired populations. (ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.3310/hta5060
PMID: 11319989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Microbiology (Reading). 2001 May;147(Pt 5):1323-1330. doi: 
10.1099/00221287-147-5-1323.

Molecular characterization of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 rpoH gene regulation.

Manzanera M(1), Aranda-Olmedo I(1), Ramos JL(1), Marqués S(1).

Author information:
(1)Estación Experimental del Zaidı́n, CSIC, Departamento de Bioquı́mica y 
Biologı́a Molecular y Celular de Plantas, Apartado 419, E-18080 Granada, Spain1.

The rpoH gene of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 encoding the heat-shock sigma factor 
sigma(32) was cloned and sequenced, and the translated gene product was 
predicted to be a protein of 32.5 kDa. The unambiguous role of the gene as a 
sigma factor was confirmed because the cloned P. putida gene complemented the 
growth defect, at 37 and 42 degrees C, of an Escherichia coli rpoH mutant 
strain. Primer extension analysis showed that in P. putida the rpoH gene is 
expressed from three promoters in cells growing at 30 degrees C. Two of them, P1 
and P3, share homology with the sigma(70)-dependent promoters, while the third 
one, P2, shows a typical sigma(24)-consensus sequence. The pattern of 
transcription initiation of the rpoH gene did not change in response to 
different stresses, i.e. a sudden heat shock or the addition of aromatic 
compounds. However, the predicted secondary structure of the 5' region of the 
mRNA derived from the three different promoters suggests regulation at the level 
of translation efficiency and/or mRNA half-life. An inverted repeat sequence 
located 20 bp downstream of the rpoH stop codon was shown to function as a 
terminator in vivo in P. putida growing at temperatures from 18 to 42 degrees C.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-147-5-1323
PMID: 11320135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Am Heart J. 2001 May;141(5):727-34. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2001.114805.

Cost-effectiveness of pravastatin therapy for survivors of myocardial infarction 
with average cholesterol levels.

Tsevat J(1), Kuntz KM, Orav EJ, Weinstein MC, Sacks FM, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Section of Outcomes Research, Department of Internal Medicine and Center for 
Clinical Effectiveness, Institute for Health Policy and Health Services 
Research, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, OH, USA. joel.tsevat@uc.edu

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
pravastatin therapy in survivors of myocardial infarction with average 
cholesterol levels.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis based on actual clinical, 
cost, and health-related quality-of-life data from the Cholesterol and Recurrent 
Events (CARE) trial. Survival and recurrent coronary heart disease events were 
modeled from trial data in Markov models, with the use of different assumptions 
regarding the long-term benefit of therapy.
RESULTS: Pravastatin therapy increased quality-adjusted life expectancy at an 
incremental cost of $16,000 to $32,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. In 
subgroup analyses, the cost-effectiveness of pravastatin therapy was more 
favorable for patients >60 years of age and for patients with pretreatment 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels >125 mg/dL. Results were sensitive to 
the cost of pravastatin and to assumptions about long-term survival benefits 
from pravastatin therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of pravastatin therapy in survivors of 
myocardial infarction with average cholesterol levels compares favorably with 
other interventions.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2001.114805
PMID: 11320359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Ir Med J. 2001 Feb;94(2):62.

Exaggerated claims do not help consultants' cause.

Houghton F.

PMID: 11321179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Mult Scler. 2001 Feb;7(1):59-65. doi: 10.1177/135245850100700110.

Disability and prognosis in multiple sclerosis: demographic and clinical 
variables important for the ability to walk and awarding of disability pension.

Myhr KM(1), Riise T, Vedeler C, Nortvedt MW, Grønning R, Midgard R, Nyland HI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Haukeland University Hospital, University of Bergen, 
Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate disability and prognosis in an untreated population-based 
incidence cohort of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.
METHODS: The Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was recorded in 220 
MS patients. Disease progression was assessed by life table analysis with 
different endpoints and multivariate Cox regression analysis was performed for 
evaluation of prognostic factors.
RESULTS: The probability of being alive after 15 years was 94.8 +/- 1.8% (s.e.), 
of managing without a wheelchair (EDSS < 7.0) 75.8 +/- 3.2%, of walking without 
walking assistance (EDSS<6.0) 60.3 +/- 3.6%, and of not being awarded a 
disability pension 46.0 +/- 3.7%. The probability of still having a 
relapsing-remitting (RR) course after 15 years was 62.0 +/- 4.1%. A RR course 
and long interval between the initial (onset) and second episode (> 3 years) 
predicted favorable outcome. There was also a trend towards favorable outcome in 
patients with optic neuritis, sensory symptoms and low age at onset but these 
factors were associated with the RR course. Motor symptoms and high age at onset 
indicated unfavorable outcome, but these factors were associated with the 
primary progressive course.
CONCLUSIONS: A RR course and long inter-episode intervals in the early phase of 
the disease were associated with a better outcome. Other onset characteristics 
indicating a favorable outcome were associated with the RR course while 
characteristics indicating an unfavorable outcome were associated with the PP 
course.

DOI: 10.1177/135245850100700110
PMID: 11321195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Age Ageing. 2001 Jan;30(1):53-62. doi: 10.1093/ageing/30.1.53.

Health and ill-health in the older population in England and Wales. The Medical 
Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS).

Brayne C(1), Matthews FE, McGee MA, Jagger C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Institute of Public Health, UK. carol.brayne@medschl.cam.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: to provide a profile of disorders and disabilities in the older 
population.
DESIGN: the MRC CFAS drew population samples of people aged 64 years and over 
from Family Health Service Authority lists at five sites and asked participants 
about sociodemographic variables, physical and cognitive health and activities 
of daily living, We calculated the prevalence of co-morbidity from the number of 
different types of complaint or disability (physical, functional and cognitive), 
and calculated healthy life expectancies in each of these co-morbid states.
SETTING: three urban (Newcastle, Nottingham and Oxford) and two rural sites 
(Cambridgeshire and Gwynedd).
RESULTS: the prevalence of morbidity is low at the youngest ages, as is 
co-morbidity. Women have consistently greater morbidity than men. Morbidity 
increases sharply with age, with a more dramatic rise in women. Life expectancy 
without any morbidity is short at all ages over 64, with the number of years 
expected with two or more areas affected virtually constant up to 90 years. As a 
proportion of remaining life expectancy, the period of time spent with two or 
more areas affected rises by the age of 90 to 30% in men and 60% in women.
CONCLUSIONS: preventive programmes for the older population should take into 
account the large differences between the young old, the middle old and the old 
old. Our study provides a baseline against which to compare future changes in 
health in older populations, as well as benchmark expectancies for the UK 
population.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/30.1.53
PMID: 11322674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Hum Evol. 2001 May;40(5):437-50. doi: 10.1006/jhev.2001.0469.

Mortality rates among wild chimpanzees.

Hill K(1), Boesch C, Goodall J, Pusey A, Williams J, Wrangham R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico 
87131-1086, USA. kimhill@unm.edu

In order to compare evolved human and chimpanzees' life histories we present a 
synthetic life table for free-living chimpanzees, derived from data collected in 
five study populations (Gombe, Taï, Kibale, Mahale, Bossou). The combined data 
from all populations represent 3711 chimpanzee years at risk and 278 deaths. 
Males show higher mortality than females and data suggest some inter-site 
variation in mortality. Despite this variation, however, wild chimpanzees 
generally have a life expectancy at birth of less than 15 years and mean adult 
lifespan (after sexual maturity) is only about 15 years. This is considerably 
lower survival than that reported for chimpanzees in zoos or captive breeding 
colonies, or that measured among modern human hunter-gatherers. The low 
mortality rate of human foragers relative to chimpanzees in the early adult 
years may partially explain why humans have evolved to senesce later than 
chimpanzees, and have a longer juvenile period.

DOI: 10.1006/jhev.2001.0469
PMID: 11322804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Mech Ageing Dev. 2001 May 31;122(7):571-94. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00218-4.

Why only time will tell.

Hekimi S(1), Bénard C, Branicky R, Burgess J, Hihi AK, Rea S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, 1205 Avenue Dr Penfield, Quebec, 
H3A 1B1, Montreal, Canada. shekim1@po-box.mcgill.ca

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has become a model system for the study of 
the genetic basis of aging. In particular, many mutations that extend life span 
have been identified in this organism. When loss-of-function mutations in a gene 
lead to life span extension, it is a necessary conclusion that the gene normally 
limits life span in the wild type. The effect of a given mutation depends on a 
number of environmental and genetic conditions. For example, the combination of 
two mutations can result in additive, synergistic, subtractive, or epistatic 
effects on life span. Valuable insight into the processes that determine life 
span can be obtained from such genetic analyses, especially when interpreted 
with caution, and when molecular information about the interacting genes is 
available. Thus, genetic and molecular analyses have implicated several genes 
classes (daf, clk and eat) in life span determination and have indicated that 
aging is affected by alteration of several biological processes, namely 
dormancy, physiological rates, food intake, and reproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00218-4
PMID: 11322988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Toxicol Lett. 2001 Mar 31;120(1-3):73-82. doi:
10.1016/s0378-4274(01)00309-5.

Recent developments in regulatory requirements for developmental toxicology.

Kimmel CA(1), Makris SL.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Environmental Assessment (8623D), Office of Research and 
Development, US Environmental Protection Agency, Ariel Rios Building, 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave, Washington, DC 20460, USA. kimmel.carole@epa.gov

A number of legislative and regulatory changes have occurred over the past 5 
years to prompt the re-evaluation of the regulatory requirements for 
developmental toxicity testing and use of the data for risk assessment. In 
particular, passage of the 1996 Food Quality Protection Act (FQPA) in the United 
States required the USEPA to evaluate children's health risks in a more rigorous 
fashion, and to apply an additional 10-fold safety factor if data were 
inadequate or children appeared to be more sensitive than adults. A review of 
the testing protocols required by USEPA led to extension of the dosing period to 
term in the prenatal developmental toxicity study and the addition of endpoints 
to the 2-generation reproduction study protocol as indicators of possible 
neurologic, reproductive, or immune alterations. Revised testing guidelines for 
pesticides and toxic substances were published by USEPA in 1998, including a 
developmental neurotoxicity testing protocol. Further review for FQPA 
implementation resulted in the proposal for a core set of required toxicology 
studies, including routine developmental neurotoxicity, adult neurotoxicity, and 
adult immunotoxicity studies. In addition, development of new testing guidelines 
in several areas was recommended, these guidelines to be used in conjunction 
with or as follow-up when indicated from standard testing: developmental 
immunotoxicity, carcinogenesis, specialized neurotoxicity studies, endocrine 
disruptor studies, pharmacokinetics, and direct dosing of neonates. The impact 
of these efforts on the policies for toxicity testing of pesticides are 
discussed, and these issues are currently being reviewed on a broader scale, in 
particular, by evaluating the adequacy of the methods used for reference values 
(e.g. chronic RfD, RfC). Three major areas of focus for this review include life 
stages evaluated, endpoints assessed, and the duration of exposure used in 
various studies. A major focus of these efforts is to ensure that children's 
health risks are being adequately addressed in the risk assessment process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4274(01)00309-5
PMID: 11323164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Minerva Med. 2001 Apr;92(2):75-8.

[The longevity of centenarians].

[Article in Italian]

Rotundo A(1), Gareri P, Ciotti D, Olivo M, Mattace C.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra e Scuola di Specializzazione in Geriatria, Facoltà di Medicina e 
Chirurgia, Università degli Studi, Catanzaro, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The increase of mean lifetime has also given rise to an increase in 
the number of centenarians; such a circumstance finds its explanation in an 
improvement in hygienic conditions in addition to the progress in the medical 
field. The aim of this retrospective study is the attempt to identify the 
probable factors encouraging the achievement of an extreme longevity.
METHODS: The study was carried out, on a house to house basis, on a sample of 46 
calabrian centenarians. In order to demonstrate the hereditary component, the 
frequency of the centenarians among the closest relatives was considered, 
through birth and death certificates. The case history questionnaire used most 
geriatric and gerontological centres associated to the national project Italian 
Multicentric Study on Centena-rians was used.
RESULTS: The profile of our long-lived subject has allowed us to underline the 
importance of the environmental factor as well as the hereditary component. In 
most cases these subjects live with their family and have excellent 
relationships, receiving a great deal of attention from the persons with which 
they live.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors have therefore reached the conclusion by stressing the 
importance of both factors (hereditary and genetic); however a type of 
intervention in order to lengthen the mean lifetime is hypothesized exclusively 
in the environment field through the elimination of certain risk factors.

PMID: 11323568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2001 Mar-Apr;16(2):193-200.

A prospective multicenter clinical study of the Osseotite implant: four-year 
interim report.

Testori T(1), Wiseman L, Woolfe S, Porter SS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Implantology, Department of Periodontology, University of Milan, 
San Paolo Hospital, Italy. ttestor@tin.it

This article reports the 4-year interim results of a multicenter study 
evaluating the clinical performance of the Osseotite dental implant. At 4 study 
centers, 485 Osseotite implants were consecutively placed in 181 patients (219 
were placed in the mandible and 266 in the maxilla). A total of 355 implants 
were placed in posterior regions. Short implants (10 mm or less) represented 
31.5% (n = 153) of all implants placed in this study. Patients were restored 
with 210 restorations, distributed as 123 short-span prostheses, 58 single-tooth 
replacements, 28 long-span prostheses, and 1 maxillary overdenture. At this 
4-year interim evaluation, the mean time from implant placement to the most 
recent evaluation was 52.6 +/- 3.0 months, with a mean loading time of 43.3 +/- 
3.8 months. Of the 485 implants placed, there have been 6 failures. All implant 
failures occurred prior to loading and were categorized as early implant 
failures. Five of the 6 failures occurred in the maxilla. Only one of the 153 
short implants failed to integrate. Baseline radiographs were obtained at 
prosthesis connection. Radiographic analysis 1 year post-restoration showed a 
mean bone loss of 0.09 +/- 0.7 mm. From baseline to the end of the second year 
of function, an overall mean bone loss of 0.13 +/- 0.8 mm was recorded, 
indicating no additional bone was lost after the first year of implant function. 
At 4 years, the cumulative implant success rate for all implants placed in this 
study was 98.7%, with a 99.4% success rate in the posterior mandible and 98.4% 
success rate in the posterior maxilla. Results of this 4-year interim analysis 
indicate that this implant achieved a high success rate in posterior regions and 
that all failures with this implant in this patient population occurred prior to 
implant loading. When the clinical success of implants 10 mm or shorter was 
compared to that of implants greater than 10 mm in length, the shorter implants 
in this study performed similarly to longer implants.

PMID: 11324207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2001 Mar-Apr;16(2):217-24.

A prospective clinical study evaluating the safety and effectiveness of 
narrow-diameter threaded implants in the anterior region of the maxilla.

Andersen E(1), Saxegaard E, Knutsen BM, Haanaes HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery and Oral Medicine, Dental Faculty, University of 
Oslo, Norway. eivind@odont.uio.no

The aim of the present study of single-tooth implants was to compare the success 
rate and marginal bone resorption of a narrow-diameter self-tapping implant 
placed in less available bone volume with the standard-diameter self-tapping 
implant placed in a well-dimensioned alveolar process. A new abutment technique 
and a different permanent abutment design were also evaluated. Fifty-five 
patients were included in the study; 27 patients received 28 standard-diameter 
(3.75-mm) implants, and 28 patients received 32 narrow-diameter (3.25-mm) 
implants replacing either a central or a lateral incisor in the maxilla. In an 
attempt to create an ideal emergence profile and to regenerate papillae, 
individual acrylic resin tooth-shaped temporary abutments were fabricated, based 
on impressions made immediately following implant placement, and connected to 
the implant after 6 months. A minimum of 2 months were then allowed before 
definitive restorative procedures were performed. Impressions were always made 
at the implant level. Follow-up examinations were performed at 6 months after 
loading and 1, 2, and 3 years after loading. Two narrow-diameter implants were 
lost after 6 months, but no other failures were subsequently observed in any of 
the groups after that. In both groups, marginal bone loss followed the same 
pattern and was recorded radiographically to be a mean of 0.4 mm from the first 
to the last examination.

PMID: 11324210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):117-28. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00224-5.

Topoisomerase IIalpha and other drug resistance markers in advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer.

Dingemans AC(1), van Ark-Otte J, Span S, Scagliotti GV, van der Valk P, Postmus 
PE, Giaccone G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital, Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Resistance to chemotherapy is common in non-small cell lung cancer. The aim of 
this study was to investigate the prognostic impact of in vitro established drug 
resistance markers on the response to chemotherapy in patients with advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer. Samples of 38 patients were analyzed by 
immunohistochemical staining, for topoisomerase IIalpha and IIbeta, Ki-67, MRP 
and LRP. In addition, mutation analysis of the topoisomerase IIalpha gene, the 
B/DNBS and the Tyr804 region, was performed. Lung tumor biopsies were taken 
prior for treatment with one of the following regimens; cisplatin/paclitaxel, 
cisplatin/VM26 or VP16, or carboplatin/VP16/ifosfamide. Seventeen patients 
obtained a partial response, 12 had stable disease and nine patients had 
progressive disease. None of the investigated markers was related with overall 
response rate. In one sample a point mutation in the B/DNBS region of the topo 
IIalpha gene was detected which substitutes IIe(510) with Val. This tumor had a 
partial response to four courses of cisplatin/VP16 treatment. The survival 
analysis showed that the patients with high topo IIalpha expressing tumors had a 
significantly worse survival compared with the patients with low or intermediate 
topo IIalpha expressing tumors. In conclusion, no relation was observed between 
expression of topoisomerase IIalpha, IIbeta, Ki-67, MRP or LRP and response 
rate. Furthermore, worse survival was seen in patients with high topoisomerase 
IIalpha expressing tumors. In one tumor sample, a newly described mutation in 
the B/DNBS region of the topo IIalpha gene was detected, which does not appear 
to be related to drug resistance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00224-5
PMID: 11325482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):129-36. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00227-0.

Brain metastases and non-small cell lung cancer. Prognostic factors and 
correlation with survival after irradiation.

Rodrigus P(1), de Brouwer P, Raaymakers E.

Author information:
(1)Dr. B. Verbeeten Instituut, P.O. Box 90120, 5000 LA Tilburg, The Netherlands. 
rodrigus@bvi.nl

A total of 250 patients with brain metastases from non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) were treated with irradiation of their brain metastases. The median 
overall survival was 3.1 (95% CI: 2.7-3.5) months. 32/250 patients presenting 
with solitary brain metastasis underwent surgical resection. Their 1-year 
survival rate of 58% was significantly better than 89/250 patients with a 
solitary lesion but without surgery (14%, P=0.001). Patients with an absent or 
controlled primary tumor (101/250, 40.5%) had a 1-year survival rate of 26% as 
opposed to 11% for patients presenting with an active primary tumor (P=0.051). 
Patients presenting with metastases to the brain only showed a significant 
survival advantage over patients with extracranial metastases (1-year survival 
of 21% vs 6%, P=0.001). Karnofsky performance score, neurofunction status and 
response to steroids were also identified as prognostic factors. The total dose 
whole brain irradiation (WBI) was prognostic of significance with a 1-year 
survival of 35% for 30 Gy and boost, 23.5% for 30 Gy and 4% for the patients 
irradiated to a dose of 20 Gy WBI (P=0.001). When patients were grouped into the 
RTOG RPA (Recursive partitioning analysis) classes, patients within class I 
(73/250) had a 1-year survival of 28.5%, patients in class II (145/250) a 
survival of 14% at 1 year and patients into class III only a 6% 1-year survival 
rate. In a multivariate analysis, surgical resection, neurofunction class, 
metastatic extent and WBI dose remained significant prognostic factors. Although 
survival remains poor, there needs to be a continued interest in these patients, 
probably by participating in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00227-0
PMID: 11325483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):137-44. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00225-7.

Diagnostic and prognostic significance of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Vassilakopoulos T(1), Troupis T, Sotiropoulou C, Zacharatos P, Katsaounou P, 
Parthenis D, Noussia O, Troupis G, Papiris S, Kittas C, Roussos C, Zakynthinos 
S, Gorgoulis V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care and Pulmonary Services, Evangelismos Hospital, 
University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece.

Squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC-Ag) is a glycoprotein secreted by non-small 
cell lung tumours (NSCLC). This study investigated the diagnostic and prognostic 
significance of SCC-Ag in NSCLC. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve 
analysis was used to test the diagnostic performance of the SCC-Ag and determine 
the optimal threshold value in a group of 100 NSCLC patients undergoing surgery 
and 50 age matched healthy controls. This threshold was then prospectively 
validated in a group of 53 patients and 49 healthy controls. The prognostic 
significance of the preoperative SCC-Ag level and its postoperative decrease 
were tested using univariate and multivariate proportional hazard models. The 
area under the ROC curve was 0.71+/-0.04, and the best cutoff value was 1.4 
ng/ml. This discriminated patients in the validation group, with a sensitivity 
of 0.55 and a specificity of 1.0. The hazard ratio was 0.144 (95% CI 
0.074-0.281) for the postoperative decrease in the SCC Ag, and 5.823 
(3.299-10.278) for the preoperative SCC Ag level. Multivariate analysis revealed 
that only disease stage and patients' age are strong prognostic factors for 
survival. In conclusion, the SCC-Ag serum level has moderate diagnostic role in 
NSCLC. Both the preoperative SCC-Ag level and its postoperative decrease have 
prognostic significance, yet inferior to the disease stage and the patient's 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00225-7
PMID: 11325484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):163-71. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00216-6.

Sequential chemo- and radiochemotherapy with weekly paclitaxel (Taxol) and 
3D-conformal radiotherapy of stage III inoperable non-small cell lung cancer. 
Results of a dose escalation study.

Willner J(1), Schmidt M, Kirschner J, Lang S, Borgmeier A, Huber RM, Flentje M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University Wuerzburg, Josef-Schneider Strasse 11, 
97080 Wuerzburg, Germany. willner@strahlentherapie.uni-wuerzburg.de

The purpose of this study was the determination of the maximum tolerable dose 
(MTD) of weekly paclitaxel (PX) in combination with 3D-conformal radiotherapy in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and the evaluation of side effects, patient 
outcome and tumor response. Thirty-eight patients with inoperable NSCLC, 
UICC-stage IIIA (n=14)/IIIB (n=24) received two cycles of induction chemotherapy 
with PX/carboplatin followed by combined radiochemotherapy (60 Gy/6 weeks) with 
weekly PX which was escalated in cohorts of four patients until dose limiting 
toxicity (DLT) was reached. Starting level was 40 mg/m(2). 3D-conformal 
radiotherapy was applied in all patients. Toxicity was determined by WHO 
criteria. Patients were followed-up 3-monthly. Thirty eight patients have 
entered the study, 34 patients are evaluable. DLT was esophagitis III degrees, 
requiring interruption of radiotherapy and was reached at the PX 70 mg/m(2). Two 
hypersensitivity reactions (50 mg/m(2)) and one leucopenia III degrees (60 
mg/m(2)) were observed. Only one patient (60 mg/m(2), 50 Gy) completely aborted 
treatment. The pneumonitis rate was between 21 and 36% but showed no clear 
correlation with PX dose. Tumor response (PR and CR) defined by CT-scan 6 weeks 
following radiotherapy was 88% (30/34). The 1- and 2-year survival rate is 73% 
and 34%. We conclude that the MTD of weekly PX with 60 Gy normofractionated 
radiotherapy is 60 mg/m(2). The DLT is esophagitis. Response and survival data 
of this sequential/combined approach are promising. A minor increase of 
pulmonary toxicity of irradiation is suspected.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00216-6
PMID: 11325487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):179-87. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00212-9.

Docetaxel in combination with gemcitabine plus rhG-CSF support as second-line 
treatment in non-small cell lung cancer. A multicenter phase II study.

Kakolyris S(1), Papadakis E, Tsiafaki X, Kalofonos C, Rapti A, Toubis M, Bania 
E, Kouroussis C, Chainis K, Androulakis N, Agelaki S, Sarra E, Vardakis N, 
Georgoulias V; Greek Cooperative Group for Lung Cancer.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University General Hospital of Heraklion, 
Heraklion 71110, Crete, Greece

BACKGROUND: Docetaxel in combination with gemcitabine is an active front-line 
chemotherapy regimen against non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with acceptable 
toxicity. A multicenter phase II study was conducted in order to determine the 
toxicity and efficacy of this combination, as salvage treatment in patients 
progressing after a cisplatin-based front line regimens.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-two patients with histologically confirmed, 
bidimensionally measurable NSCLC, who failed prior cisplatin-based chemotherapy 
were enrolled. The patients' median age was 62.5 years, 29 (91%) were male, 23 
(72%) had disease stage IV, and 22 (69%) had a performance status (WHO) 0-1. 
Gemcitabine (900 mg/m(2)) was administered on days 1 and 8 and docetaxel (100 
mg/m(2)) on day 8, after appropriate premedication. rhG-CSF (150 microg/m(2)) 
was given prophylactically from day 9 to 15. Treatment was repeated on an 
outpatient basis every three weeks.
RESULTS: A total of 127 chemotherapy cycles were administered. In an 
intention-to-treat analysis five patients (15.6%; 95% CI: 3.04-28.21%) achieved 
a partial response, 11 (34.4%) stable disease, and 16 (50%) progressive disease. 
The median duration of response was 9 months, the median TTP 7 months, and the 
overall median survival 6.5 months; the overall 1-year survival probability was 
27.6%. Grade 3/4 neutropenia was observed in five (15.6%) patients and in two of 
them associated with fever. Grade 3 anemia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 
three (9%) and two (6.5%) patients, respectively. Non-hematologic toxicity was 
very mild with only one episode of grade 4 diarrhea and mucositis, respectively; 
two (6%) patients complained for grade 3 asthenia.
CONCLUSION: The combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel with prophylactic use 
of rhG-CSF is a safe and well-tolerated regimen for the treatment of patients 
with advanced NSCLC, who failed front-line treatment with cisplatin-based 
regimens.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00212-9
PMID: 11325489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Lung Cancer. 2001 May;32(2):189-96. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00213-0.

Phase I study of gemcitabine and carboplatin in advanced non-small cell lung 
carcinoma.

Gajra A(1), Mehdi SA, Kirshner J, Newman N, Graziano SL.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, 750 E Adams Street, 
Syracuse, NY 13210, USA.

BACKGROUND: This phase I study was designed to determine the maximum tolerated 
dose of carboplatin with a fixed dose of gemcitabine without growth factor or 
hematopoietic precursor support.
METHODS: Nineteen patients with previously untreated non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) were treated at three dose levels. Initially, the gemcitabine dose was 
1000 mg/m(2) given on days 1 and 8. Of the first five patients treated with 
carboplatin AUC 4, three experienced dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The study 
was, therefore, amended to decrease the dose of gemcitabine to 800 mg/m(2) given 
on days 1 and 8 in a 21-day cycle.
RESULTS: Dose limiting toxicity (neutropenia and thrombocytopenia) were seen at 
dose level 2A (carboplatin AUC=5). Thus, no further dose escalation was 
performed. Grade 3 and 4 toxicities were seen as follows: leukopenia in five of 
18 (28%); neutropenia, four of 18 (22%); and thrombocytopenia, four of 18 (22%) 
evaluable patients. Grade 3 or 4 anemia occurred in one of 18 (6%) patients and 
no neutropenic fever or treatment related mortality was observed. Partial 
responses were seen in six patients and one patient with evaluable disease had 
an objective response. The overall response rate was 37% (seven of 19). Six 
other patients had stable disease. A total of 89 courses were administered with 
a median of five courses per patient (range: two to six courses). The median 
time to progression for all patients was 3.7 months. The median overall survival 
was 7.4 months with four patients still alive (median follow up 13.5 months). 
The survival at 6 months and 1 year is 64 and 23%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in this group of patients was 
defined as carboplatin AUC 4 when administered with gemcitabine 800 mg/m(2) on 
days 1 and 8 of a 21-day schedule.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(00)00213-0
PMID: 11325490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Am J Emerg Med. 2001 May;19(3):206-7. doi: 10.1053/ajem.2001.21724.

Lidocaine inhalation for cough suppression.

Udezue E(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Unit, Al-Hasa Specialty Services Division, Saudi 
Aramco-Al-Hasa Health Center, Box 6030 Mubarraz 31311, Saudi Arabia. 
manevans@yahoo.com

The purpose of this study was to observe the effectiveness of lidocaine in 
suppressing cough which is a logical extension of its established use in 
bronchoscopy. Nebulized lidocaine, preceded by standard nebulized albuterol 
inhalation driven by oxygen was given to suppress cough in a selected group of 
patients with intractable cough severe enough to disrupt daily life activities, 
especially sleep. Patients included those with asthma, reactive airways disease, 
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In these selected patients, 
nebulized lidocaine was very effective in suppressing cough, and thus buying 
time for more definitive therapies to work. This observation merits further 
study and confirmation for the benefit of patients.(Am J Emerg Med 
2001;19:206-207.

Copyright 2001 by W. B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/ajem.2001.21724
PMID: 11326346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Stud Fam Plann. 2001 Mar;32(1):17-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.2001.00017.x.

Childbearing in five Arab countries.

Eltigani EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Research Center, American University in Cairo, 113 Kasr El Aini 
Street, Cairo, Egypt. Tigani@aucegypt.edu

The life-table technique is used in this study to describe childbearing patterns 
in five Arab countries (Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Sudan, and Yemen). Two summary 
measures are estimated: the cumulative proportion of women of a given parity 
having a subsequent birth within 60 months of the previous birth (quintum), and 
the median length of the interval between successive births. The analysis 
indicates that in Yemen (where the total fertility rate exceeds seven children 
per woman of reproductive age), women begin childbearing at a relatively early 
age and a large proportion of ever-married women reach high parity at a 
relatively fast pace. Morocco and Egypt (with TFRs of 3.3 and 3.8 children per 
woman, respectively) are characterized by delay in the onset of childbearing, a 
slow pace of childbearing, and a smaller proportion of ever-married women 
reaching high parity. In Algeria and Sudan (with TFRs of 4.4 and 4.6 children), 
delay in the onset of childbearing plays a larger role in fertility reduction 
than do the tempo or the quantum of childbearing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.2001.00017.x
PMID: 11326454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 1997 Dec;13(4):202-9, 185.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of the screening strategies for primary angle 
closure glaucoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu Q(1), Li S, Ye T.

Author information:
(1)Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University of Medical Sciences, 
Guangzhou 510060, China.

PURPOSE: To evaluate varlous primary angle clouse glaucoma(PACG)screening 
strategies by cost effectiveness analysis for choosing the best screening 
strategy.
METHODS: We designed a model of the process of PACG screening, diagnosis, 
treatment, and estimated variable parameters of this model through literatures 
reviewed and the results of our study. Then four screening strategiers which are 
oblique flashlight test, measurement of axial anterior chamber depth (AACD), 
examination of peripheral anterior chamber depth (PACD), and combination of 
oblique flashlight test with examination of PACD in series were calculated by 
computer to obtain the costs for various screening strategies and the quality 
ajusted life years (QALYs) saved. We performed sensitivity analysis to determine 
how the variation in the parameter assumptions would affect the calculated cost 
effectiveness of the various screening strategies. Based on the principle of 
cost effectiveness, the screening strategy of more cost effective would be 
chosen.
RESULTS: The results showed that no matter what age group, the screening 
strategy of oblique flashlight test and measuring PACD combined in series is the 
lowest cost per QALY gained than other strategies. This screening strategy is 
optimum, next is oblique flashlight test Screening method. We found that 
screening strategies not only gains QALY, but also is cost saving as well in the 
range 40-< 70 years old. sensitivity analysis result showed that optimum 
strategy is still the combined serial strategy, in addition to the capable 
closure angle ratio of a population with a 10% up and down, the oblique 
flashlight test became an optimum strategy and the combined serial method became 
next in > or = 70 years old group.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that the oblique flashlight test and measurement 
of PACD combined in series is an optimum screening strategy. This research 
suggests that using adequate screening strategy should not only increase the 
QALYs, but also save the cost for the government and the patients themselves.

PMID: 11326908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Jun;52(11):1629-41. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00273-2.

Trends in healthy life expectancy in the United States, 1970-1990: gender, 
racial, and educational differences.

Crimmins EM(1), Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Andrus Gerontology Center, Los Angeles 
90089-0191, USA. crimmin@almaak.usc.edu

This paper examines healthy life expectancy by gender and education for whites 
and African Americans in the United States at three dates: 1970, 1980 and 1990. 
There are large racial and educational differences in healthy life expectancy at 
each date and differences by education in healthy life expectancy are even 
larger than differences in total life expectancy. Large racial differences exist 
in healthy life expectancy at lower levels of education. Educational differences 
in healthy life expectancy have been increasing over time because of widening 
differentials in both mortality and morbidity. In the last decade, a compression 
of morbidity has begun among those of higher educational status; those of lower 
status are still experiencing expansion of morbidity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00273-2
PMID: 11327137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Paediatr Child Health. 2001 Apr;37(2):183-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1754.2001.00644.x.

Cerebral palsy in Victoria, Australia: mortality and causes of death.

Reddihough DS(1), Baikie G, Walstab JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Development and Rehabilitation, Royal Children's Hospital 
and Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. 
reddihod@cryptic.rch.unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To study the causes of death and the characteristics of children with 
cerebral palsy that had died over a 25-year period in Victoria, Australia.
METHODOLOGY: Names of children that had died were collected from the Victorian 
Cerebral Palsy Register. Their hospital records were studied and information was 
gathered about age of death, motor impairment, the presence or absence of 
associated disabilities and cause of death.
RESULTS: One hundred and fifty-five children had died during the period 1970-95. 
The majority of children had severe spastic quadriplegia, intellectual 
disability and epilepsy. The predominant cause of death was pneumonia, although 
for many children who died at home the cause was unknown.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with cerebral palsy are a diverse group and those with a 
severe motor deficit have a reduced life expectancy. Lung disease remains an 
important cause of morbidity and mortality for this group. Further information 
about the causes of death is needed, particularly for those children that die at 
home.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1754.2001.00644.x
PMID: 11328476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Br J Soc Psychol. 2001 Mar;40(Pt 1):35-57. doi: 10.1348/014466601164687.

'This very difficult debate about Wik': stake, voice and the management of 
category memberships in race politics.

LeCouteur A(1), Rapley M, Augoustinos M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Adelaide, Australia.

The issue of 'race' has assumed an extraordinarily salient position in 
Australian politics since the election of the conservative Howard government in 
1996. Central to debate in the Australian policy has been the nature of the 
relationship between indigenous, or Aboriginal, Australians and the rest of the 
population, in particular over the issue of the land rights of indigenous 
people. Land rights, or 'native title', assumed a pre-eminent position in 
national political life in 1996/97 with the handing down by the High Court of 
the so-called 'Wik judgment'. The discursive management of the ensuing debate by 
Australia's political leaders is illuminative of key sites of interest in the 
analysis of political rhetoric and the construction of 'racially sensitive' 
issues. Taking the texts of 'addresses to the nation' on Wik by the leaders of 
the two major political parties as analytic materials, we examine two features 
of the talk. First, examine how the speakers manage their stake in the position 
they advance, with an extension of previous work on reported speech into the 
area of set-piece political rhetoric. Second, in contrast to approaches which 
treat social categories as routine, mundane and unproblematic objects, we 
demonstrate the local construction of category memberships and their predicates 
as strategic moves in political talk. Specifically, we demonstrate how the 
categories of 'Aborigines' and 'farmers', groups central to the dispute, are 
strategically constructed to normatively bind certain entitlements to activity 
to category membership. Furthermore, inasmuch as such categories do not, in use, 
reflect readily perceived 'objective' group entities in the 'real' world, so too 
'standard' discursive devices and rhetorical structures are themselves shown to 
be contingently shaped and strategically deployed for contrasting local, 
ideological and rhetorical ends.

DOI: 10.1348/014466601164687
PMID: 11329833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2001 Winter;17(1):27-37. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462301104046.

Estimating the Bayesian loss function. A conjoint analysis approach.

Bala MV, Mauskopf J.

Current health economic literature does not provide clear guidelines on how 
uncertainty around cost-effectiveness estimates should be incorporated into 
economic decision models. Bayesian analysis is a promising alternative to 
classical statistics for incorporating uncertainty in economic analysis. 
Estimating a loss function that relates outcomes to societal welfare is a key 
component of Bayesian decision analysis. Health economists commonly compute the 
loss function based on the quality-adjusted life-years associated with each 
outcome. However, if welfare economics is adopted as the theoretical foundation 
of the analysis, a loss function based in cost-benefit analysis (CBA) may be 
more appropriate. CBA has not found wide use in health economics due to 
practical issues associated with estimating such a loss function. In this paper, 
we present a method based in conjoint analysis for estimating the CBA loss 
function that can be applied in practice. We illustrate the use of the 
methodology using data from a pilot study.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462301104046
PMID: 11329843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2001 Winter;17(1):83-97. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462301104083.

Bayesian cost-effectiveness analysis. An example using the GUSTO trial.

Fryback DG(1), Chinnis JO Jr, Ulvila JW.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA.

A desirable element of cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) modeling is a 
systematic way to relate uncertainty about input parameters to uncertainty in 
the computational results of the CEA model. Use of Bayesian statistical 
estimation and Monte Carlo simulation provides a natural way to compute a 
posterior probability distribution for each CEA result. We demonstrate this 
approach by reanalyzing a previously published CEA evaluating the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of tissue plasminogen activator compared to streptokinase for 
thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction patients using data from the GUSTO 
trial and other auxiliary data sources. We illustrate Bayesian estimation for 
proportions, mean costs, and mean quality-of-life weights. The computations are 
performed using the Bayesian analysis software WinBUGS, distributed by the MRC 
Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, England.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462301104083
PMID: 11329847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Gesundheitswesen. 2001 Mar;63(3):147-55. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-11982.

[Reality and social interpretation of health].

[Article in German]

Gostomzyk JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Gesundheitsamt der Stadt Augsburg Hoher Weg 8 86152 Augsburg.

The health profile of a human society depends upon its social development and in 
particular upon current social and cultural conditions. Health can be defined in 
many ways; both the pathogenetic and the salutogenetic approaches have their 
merits. Partial aspects of reality are offered for example by attempts to 
describe health conditions quantitatively by means of health indicators such als 
life expectancy, mortality, morbidity, incapacity to work, use made of medical 
services, and the like. The description of health must encompass the entire 
range of its objective and subjective experience in its somatic, mental and 
social dimensions. Epidemiological data must always be supplemented by the 
results of phenomenological observations to obtain a true picture of the 
experience of reality and the acceptance of the results by the group under 
observation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-11982
PMID: 11329905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Dis Colon Rectum. 2001 Apr;44(4):506-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02234322.

Outcome analysis of HIV-positive patients with anal squamous cell carcinoma.

Place RJ(1), Gregorcyk SG, Huber PJ, Simmang CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas 75390-9156, USA.

PURPOSE: With improved antiretroviral therapy, HIV-positive patients are 
achieving a longer life expectancy. An increased incidence of anal squamous cell 
carcinomas has been noted in these patients. The purpose of this study was to 
determine the outcome of HIV-positive patients with anal squamous cell 
carcinomas.
METHODS: We conducted a review based on our tumor registry from 1980 through 
1999. We identified 73 patients with anal squamous cell carcinoma treated at the 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center affiliated hospitals; 23 were 
HIV positive (18 had AIDS). In the HIV-positive group, 9 had in situ squamous 
carcinomas and 14 had invasive squamous cell carcinomas. Data collected included 
age, CD4 count, treatment, complications, and survival; these data were analyzed 
by Student's t-test.
RESULTS: All patients were male. Those with squamous cell cancer of the anus 
were offered radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Beginning in 1998, all patients 
received highly active antiretroviral therapy before treatment. Seven of 14 anal 
squamous cell carcinoma patients had their therapy adjusted owing to toxicity. 
Morbidity included proctocolitis and diarrhea (n = 2) requiring diversion (n = 
1), hemorrhagic cystitis (n = 1), neutropenic fever (n = 3), bone marrow 
suppression (n = 1), and urethral stricture (n = 1). Mean age was 42 years for 
anal squamous cell carcinoma patients and 36 years for squamous cell carcinoma 
in situ patients (P = 0.05). Mean CD4 count was 222 cells/ml in patients with 
infiltrating carcinoma and 200 in the in situ patients (P = NS). One-year and 
five-year mortality rates, respectively, were 40 percent and 80 percent for 
infiltrating carcinoma patients and 17 percent and 50 percent for the in situ 
patients. Both of the in situ patients who died had CD4 counts <20 cells/ml at 
diagnosis, whereas the rest had CD4 counts >100 cells/ml and are currently 
without anal disease. Mean CD4 count at diagnosis for all patients who died was 
133 cells/ml, whereas for those surviving, it was 261 cells/ml (P = 0.03). Eight 
(all with infiltrating carcinoma) of the 10 patients who died had persistent 
anal disease, but none had metastasis.
CONCLUSION: HIV-positive patients with in situ carcinomas present at an earlier 
age than those with infiltrating lesions. In situ patients with CD4 counts as 
low as 105 cells/ml do well with local excision. A low CD4 count at diagnosis 
without highly active antiretroviral therapy predicts a poor prognosis. Because 
these patients appear to succumb to their HIV status and not the anal disease, 
anal squamous cell carcinoma should be included with cervical squamous cell 
carcinoma as an AIDS-defining illness. HIV-positive patients, particularly AIDS 
patients, with invasive anal cancers and without effective antiretroviral 
therapy obtain little benefit and significant toxicity from current radiation 
therapy and chemotherapy. Initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy in 
HIV-positive patients before radiation therapy and chemotherapy are begun may 
decrease toxicity and improve survival. Additional clinical trials are warranted 
to test this theory.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02234322
PMID: 11330577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Nutr Rev. 2001 Mar;59(3 Pt 2):S1-74.

Summit on promoting healthy eating and active living: developing a framework for 
progress. Washington, DC, USA. April 25-26, 2000.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11330631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Feb;52(3):385-91. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00141-6.
