
Compression or expansion of morbidity? Trends in healthy-life expectancy in the 
elderly Austrian population between 1978 and 1998.

Doblhammer G(1), Kytir J.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
doblhammer@demogr.mpg.de

The aim of our study is to test the theories of compression or expansion of 
morbidity on the basis of data on the elderly population of Austria. Our data 
come from four microcensus surveys for the years 1978, 1983, 1991, and 1998. We 
use self-perceived health ratings to calculate healthy-life expectancy for the 
elderly population aged 60-89. Because our data are based on four 
cross-sectional surveys, we devote the first part of the paper to the 
consequences of possible sampling and non-sampling errors in our analysis of 
time trends. We come to the conclusion that, although the absolute number of 
years lived in good health may be overestimated, the time trend in healthy-life 
expectancy over the 20 years most probably is unbiased. The second part of the 
paper describes trends in healthy-life expectancy for the Austrian population. 
Our results suggest that both healthy-life expectancy and the ratio of healthy 
years to life expectancy increased between 1978 and 1998. Thus, in Austria ill 
health seems to be more and more compressed into the later years of life. 
Contrary to Fries's hypothesis, however, life expectancy does not seem to be 
approaching a maximum average life span in Austria, as mortality rates at older 
ages have been continuously decreasing over the last 20 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00141-6
PMID: 11330773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Feb;52(3):453-65. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00154-4.

Future states: the axioms underlying prospective, future-oriented, health 
planning instruments.

Koch T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. 
tokoch@attglobal.net

Proscriptive planning exercises are critical to and generally accepted as 
integral to health planning at varying scales. These require specific 
instruments designed to predict future actions on the basis of present 
knowledge. At the macro-level of health economics, for example, a number of 
future-oriented Quality of Life Instruments (QL) are commonly employed. At the 
level of individual decision making, on the other hand, Advance Directives 
(AD's) are advanced as a means by which healthy individuals can assure their 
wishes will be carried out if at some future point they are incapacitated. As 
proscriptive tools, both instrument classes appear to share an axiomatic set 
whose individual parts have not been rigorously considered. This paper attempts 
to first identify and then consider a set of five axioms underlying future 
oriented health planning instruments. These axioms are then critiqued using data 
from a pre-test survey designed specifically to address their assumptions. 
Results appear to challenge the validity of the axioms underlying the 
proscriptive planning instruments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00154-4
PMID: 11330779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Am J Prev Med. 2001 May;20(4):291-3. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00294-x.

Performance measures: are we measuring what matters?

Thompson BL(1), Harris JR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Prevention Research and Analytic Methods, Epidemiology Program 
Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 20241, USA. 
blthompson@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The ultimate intent of healthcare performance measures is to improve 
health status by stimulating improvements to healthcare quality. This report 
evaluates how well current performance measurement sets address the leading 
causes of illness and death in the United States, using the Health Plan Employer 
Data and Information Set (HEDIS) as an example.
METHODS: We assessed whether HEDIS measures exist for the leading causes of 
illness and death according to five commonly used indices: physiologic cause of 
death, underlying cause of death, disability-adjusted life years, healthcare 
expenditures, and missed work days.
RESULTS: Fewer than one half of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality 
are addressed by current measures.
CONCLUSIONS: The opportunities for using accurate and meaningful measurement for 
disease prevention and health promotion are substantial, yet this potential 
remains only partly realized and depends on further expansion of performance 
measurement efforts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00294-x
PMID: 11331119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Circulation. 2001 May 1;103(17):2144-52. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2144.

Metabolic abnormalities characteristic of dysmetabolic syndrome predict the 
development of transplant coronary artery disease: a prospective study.

Valantine H(1), Rickenbacker P, Kemna M, Hunt S, Chen YD, Reaven G, Stinson EB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, 
Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study examines the hypothesis that metabolic abnormalities of 
dysmetabolic syndrome are risk factors for transplant coronary artery disease 
(TxCAD).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Sixty-six patients without overt diabetes, 2 to 4 years 
after surgery, underwent intracoronary ultrasound (ICUS), measurement of plasma 
glucose and insulin after oral glucose (75 g), and fasting lipid and 
lipoproteins. TxCAD incidence by angiography or autopsy was prospectively 
determined during subsequent follow-up (8 years). Coronary artery intimal 
thickness (IT) and subsequent outcomes were compared in patients stratified as 
having "high" versus "low" plasma glucose (>8.9 mmol/L) and insulin (>760 
pmol/L) 2 hours after glucose challenge; and "abnormal" versus "normal" fasting 
lipid and lipoprotein concentrations as defined by the National Cholesterol 
Education
PROGRAM: Patients with high glucose or insulin concentrations had greater IT: 
0.38+/-0.05 versus 0.22+/-0.02 mm, P</=0.05, and 0.39+/-0.05 versus 0.20+/-0.02 
mm, P</=0.01, respectively. Freedom from TxCAD was 56+/-11% versus 81+/-6% 
(P<0.01) in patients with high versus low glucose and 57+/-10% versus 82+/-7% 
(P<0.05) in patients with high versus low insulin. Actuarial survival was 
60+/-12% versus 92+/-5% (P<0.005) in patients with high versus low glucose and 
72+/-9% versus 88+/-6% (P<0.05) in patients with high versus low insulin. 
Triglycerides and VLDL were higher and HDL was lower in patients with IT >0.3 mm 
than with IT </=0.3 mm. TxCAD incidence was higher in patients with high plasma 
TG and VLDL and low HDL.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that insulin resistance plays a role in TXCAD:

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2144
PMID: 11331254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Circulation. 2001 May 1;103(17):2153-8. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2153.

Respiratory muscle dysfunction in congestive heart failure: clinical correlation 
and prognostic significance.

Meyer FJ(1), Borst MM, Zugck C, Kirschke A, Schellberg D, Kübler W, Haass M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Angiology, and Respiratory Medicine, Medical Center 
of the University Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In congestive heart failure (CHF), the prognostic significance of 
impaired respiratory muscle strength has not been established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Maximal inspiratory pressure (Pi(max)) was prospectively 
determined in 244 consecutive patients (207 men) with CHF (ischemic, n=75; 
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, n=169; age, 54+/-11 years; left ventricular 
ejection fraction [LVEF], 22+/-10%). Pi(max) was lower in the 244 patients with 
CHF than in 25 control subjects (7.6+/-3.3 versus 10.5+/-3.7 kPa; P=0.001). The 
57 patients (23%) who died during follow-up (23+/-16 months; range, 1 to 48 
months) had an even more reduced Pi(max) (6.3+/-3.2 versus 8.1+/-3.2 kPa in 
survivors; P=0.001). Kaplan-Meier survival curves differentiated between 
patients subdivided according to quartiles for Pi(max) (P=0.014). Pi(max) was a 
strong risk predictor in both univariate (P=0.001) and multivariate Cox 
proportional hazard analyses (P=0.03); multivariate analyses also included NYHA 
functional class, LVEF, peak oxygen consumption (peak VO(2)), and norepinephrine 
plasma concentration. The areas under the receiver-operating characteristic 
curves for prediction of 1-year survival were comparable for Pi(max) and peak 
VO(2) (area under the curve [AUC], 0.68 versus 0.73; P=0.28), and they improved 
with the triple combination of Pi(max), peak VO(2), and LVEF (AUC, 0.82; P=0.004 
compared with AUC of Pi(max)).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with CHF, inspiratory muscle strength is reduced and 
emerges as a novel, independent predictor of prognosis. Because testing for 
Pi(max) is simple in clinical practice, it might serve as an additional factor 
to improve risk stratification and patient selection for cardiac 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2153
PMID: 11331255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Circulation. 2001 May 1;103(17):2171-5. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2171.

Echolucent plaques are associated with high risk of ischemic cerebrovascular 
events in carotid stenosis: the tromsø study.

Mathiesen EB(1), Bønaa KH, Joakimsen O.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, University of Tromsø, Norway. 
ellisiv.mathiesen@ism.uit.no

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the study was to assess in a prospective design 
whether plaque morphology is associated with risk of ischemic stroke and other 
cerebrovascular events in subjects with carotid stenosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 223 subjects with carotid stenosis (123 with 35% 
to 49% degree of stenosis, 100 with 50% to 99% stenosis) and 215 control 
subjects matched by age and sex who participated in a population health survey 
at baseline were followed up for 3 years. Plaque echogenicity was assessed by 
ultrasound at baseline and scored as echolucent, predominantly echolucent, 
predominantly echogenic, or echogenic. Forty-four subjects experienced >/=1 
ischemic cerebrovascular events in the follow-up period. Plaque echogenicity, 
degree of stenosis, and white blood cell count were independent predictors of 
cerebrovascular events. The unadjusted relative risk for cerebrovascular events 
was 13.0 (95% CI 4.5 to 37.4) in subjects with echolucent plaques and 3.7 (95% 
CI 0.7 to 18.2) in subjects with echogenic plaques when subjects without 
stenosis were used as the reference. The adjusted relative risk for 
cerebrovascular events in subjects with echolucent plaques was 4.6 (95% CI 1.1 
to 18.9), and there was a significant linear trend (P=0.015) for higher risk 
with increasing plaque echolucency. The adjusted relative risk for a 10% 
increase in the degree of stenosis was 1.2 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Subjects with echolucent atherosclerotic plaques have increased 
risk of ischemic cerebrovascular events independent of degree of stenosis and 
cardiovascular risk factors. Subjects at high risk for ischemic vascular events 
may be identified by ultrasound assessment of plaque morphology.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.103.17.2171
PMID: 11331258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Gastrointest Surg. 2001 Mar-Apr;5(2):192-205. doi: 
10.1016/s1091-255x(01)80033-0.

A decision analysis of the optimal initial approach to achalasia: laparoscopic 
Heller myotomy with partial fundoplication, thoracoscopic Heller myotomy, 
pneumatic dilatation, or botulinum toxin injection.

Urbach DR(1), Hansen PD, Khajanchee YS, Swanstrom LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Minimally Invasive Surgery and Surgical Research, Legacy 
Systems, Portland, Ore, USA.

In the absence of randomized controlled trials that directly compare all of the 
modern methods of managing achalasia, decision analysis may help determine the 
optimal treatment strategy. Four strategies for the initial management of 
achalasia were compared using the following decision model: (1) laparoscopic 
Heller myotomy and partial fundoplication; (2) pneumatic dilatation; (3) 
botulinum toxin injection; and (4) thoracoscopic Heller myotomy. Probabilities 
of clinical events and utilities of health states were estimated using review of 
the medical literature and patient interviews. A recursive decision tree (Markov 
model) was used to simulate all the important outcomes of each initial treatment 
option, allowing for complications, relapses over time, and transitions between 
strategies when appropriate. After 10 years, laparoscopic Heller myotomy with 
partial fundoplication was associated with the longest quality-adjusted survival 
(quality-adjusted life years [QALY] = 7.41). The difference between this 
strategy and either pneumatic dilatation or botulinum toxin injection was small. 
Thoracoscopic Heller myotomy was associated with the poorest quality-adjusted 
survival (QALY = 7.15). Pneumatic dilatation was the favored strategy when the 
effectiveness of laparoscopic surgery at relieving dysphagia was less than 
89.7%, the operative mortality risk was greater than 0.7%, or the probability of 
reflux after pneumatic dilatation was less than 19%. In a decision model, 
laparoscopic Heller myotomy with partial fundoplication is at least as effective 
as endoscopic approaches for managing achalasia symptoms. However, the 
differences are small enough that patient preferences and local expertise should 
be taken into consideration when tailoring a treatment plan for an individual 
patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s1091-255x(01)80033-0
PMID: 11331483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Pediatrics. 2001 May;107(5):E76. doi: 10.1542/peds.107.5.e76.

Influence of day care attendance on the use of systemic antibiotics in 0- to 
2-year-old children.

Thrane N(1), Olesen C, Md JT, Søndergaard C, Schønheyder HC, Sørensen HT.

Author information:
(1)Danish Epidemiology Science Centre at the Department of Epidemiology and 
Social Medicine, University of Aarhus, Denmark. n.thrane@dadlnet.dk

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between time spent in different public day 
care settings and prescription of systemic antibiotics. Design. Population-based 
cohort study of 5035 Danish children born in 1997 followed from birth to June 
30, 1999.
METHODS: The study was performed by the linkage of records drawn from 
administrative registries. Exposure was the total time spent in a day care home 
or day care center. Outcome was the first prescription of a systemic antibiotic. 
Possible perinatal and sociodemographic confounding factors were considered by 
statistical analysis.
RESULTS: During the first year of life, 39.8% of the girls and 51.1% of the boys 
received at least 1 antibiotic prescription drug. Enrollment in a day care 
setting doubled a child's risk of receiving a prescription drug (adjusted 
relative risk in day care home 1.9, 95% confidence interval: 1.7-2.0; adjusted 
relative risk in day care center 2.0, 95% confidence interval: 1.7-2.3). Only 
age confounded the analyses. Age >1 year at the starting time in day care 
reduced the risk of receiving antibiotic prescriptions during the first 3 months 
after enrollment.
CONCLUSIONS: Enrollment in public day care facilities raised the risk of 
receiving an antibiotic prescription drug to the same extent in day care homes 
as well as in day care centers, so we cannot recommend one facility over the 
other based on the present study. Children <1 year old at enrollment were most 
at risk, suggesting that extension of parental leave may reduce the use of 
antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.107.5.e76
PMID: 11331726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 May 8;98(10):5717-21. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.101132498. Epub 2001 May 1.

Mice lacking DNA topoisomerase IIIbeta develop to maturity but show a reduced 
mean lifespan.

Kwan KY(1), Wang JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, 7 Divinity 
Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.

Targeted gene disruption in the murine TOP3beta gene-encoding DNA topoisomerase 
IIIbeta was carried out. In contrast to the embryonic lethality of mutant mice 
lacking DNA topoisomerase IIIalpha, top3beta(-/-) nulls are viable and grow to 
maturity with no apparent defects. Mice lacking DNA topoisomerase IIIbeta have a 
shorter life expectancy than their wild-type littermates, however. The mean 
lifespan of the top3beta(-/-) mice is about 15 months, whereas that of their 
wild-type littermates is longer than 2 years. Mortality of the top3beta(-/-) 
nulls appears to correlate with lesions in multiple organs, including 
hypertrophy of the spleen and submandibular lymph nodes, glomerulonephritis, and 
perivascular infiltrates in various organs. Because the DNA topoisomerase III 
isozymes are likely to interact with helicases of the RecQ family, enzymes that 
include the determinants of human Bloom, Werner, and Rothmund-Thomson syndromes, 
the shortened lifespan of top3beta(-/-) mice points to the possibility that the 
DNA topoisomerase III isozymes might be involved in the pathogenesis of 
progeroid syndromes caused by defective RecQ helicases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.101132498
PMCID: PMC33279
PMID: 11331780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Plant Cell Physiol. 2001 Apr;42(4):395-403. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pce049.

Involvement of cortical microtubules in plastic extension regulated by 
gibberellin in Lemna minor root.

Inada S(1), Shimmen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Science, Himeji Institute of 
Technology, Harima Science Park City, Hyogo, 678-1297 Japan.

We aimed to analyze the rheological characteristics during elongation of the 
root segments in Lemna minor. The elastic component of segment elongation (EC) 
increased for the first 6 h, and then almost stopped. However, the plastic 
component of the segment elongation (PC) began to rapidly increase from 6 h 
onwards. Uniconazole-P, a gibberellin biosynthesis inhibitor, inhibited the 
total elongation of root segments (TE), and this inhibition was mainly caused by 
suppression of the rapid increase in the PC after 6 h. Concomitant with this 
inhibition, the cortical microtubule (CMT) array within root epidermal cells 
became disorganized in the presence of uniconazole-P from 6 h onwards. Adding 
GA3 abolished the inhibition of TE by uniconazole-P treatment, and this recovery 
was caused not by the increase in the EC but by an increase in the PC. 
Furthermore, the CMT arrays also recovered their characteristic organization in 
the presence of GA3. These findings suggest that endogenous gibberellin 
accelerates TE by activating the PC via control of CMT arrays. This conclusion 
is also supported by rheological analysis where propyzamide was used to disrupt 
microtubules. We suggest that endogenous gibberellin controls the PC via its 
influence over the transverse arrangement of CMTs.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pce049
PMID: 11333310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Obstet Gynecol Surv. 2001 May;56(5):306-12. doi: 
10.1097/00006254-200105000-00026.

Vertical transmission of HIV from mother to child in sub-Saharan Africa: modes 
of transmission and methods for prevention.

Santmyire BR(1).

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University School of Medicine, Morgantown, USA. 
santimyi@hotmail.com

The impact of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic in sub-Saharan 
Africa on future mortality rates of infants, children, and mothers, life 
expectancy, and economic growth is profound. Vertical transmission of HIV, 
transmission from mother to child, is a major factor in the increasing rates of 
HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. Vertical transmission of HIV occurs in 
utero, intrapartum during labor and delivery, and postpartum during 
breast-feeding. Because of the large numbers of HIV-infected mothers in 
developing countries, the majority trials regarding prevention of vertical 
transmission of HIV have been conducted in sub-Saharan Africa. Thus, sub-Saharan 
Africa has become a human laboratory, which demonstrates both the successes and 
failures of preventative methods to reduce vertical transmission of HIV. This 
review summarizes the body of research dedicated to understanding the 
pathophysiology of vertical transmission of HIV and pharmacology of inhibition 
of vertical transmission of HIV. While many debate the ethics of conducting 
trials in developing countries where effective prevention modalities have been 
slow to be implemented for economic, social and political reasons, studies 
continue and researchers continue to discover therapies and preventative 
methods, which may reduce the future devastation of HIV both in sub-Saharan 
Africa and throughout the world.

DOI: 10.1097/00006254-200105000-00026
PMID: 11333377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2001 Apr;16(4):400-5. doi: 10.1002/gps.353.

Estimating the costs of informal care for people with Alzheimer's disease: 
methodological and practical challenges.

McDaid D(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health, London School of Economics and Political Science, Houghton 
Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK. d.mcdaid@lse.ac.uk

Although Alzheimer's disease and related disorders may have a heavy impact on 
informal caregivers, estimates of informal care costs have been neglected and 
when included in cost of illness studies, valuations have been highly variable. 
Although these variations are in part due to differences in samples and the 
difficulty in measuring caregiving time, this illustrates the need to 
standardise the methodology not only for valuing formal, but also informal care 
costs. Methods used for valuing informal care are identified, together with 
theoretical and practical challenges in measurement. In particular the 
measurement of time and it's associated satisfaction or utility is complex and 
valuations of time need to consider aspects of the caregiving experience which 
influence the marginal valuation of the time spent caring. More empirical work 
is required to elicit information on both the positive and negative satisfaction 
associated with caregiving and to incorporate this into valuations of the costs 
related to informal care.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.353
PMID: 11333428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Fertil Steril. 2001 May;75(5):843-58. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(01)01700-9.

Human immunodeficiency virus and assisted reproduction: reconsidering evidence, 
reframing ethics.

Lyerly AD(1), Anderson J.

Author information:
(1)The Bioethics Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21250, 
USA. alyerly@jhsph.edu

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2001 May;75(5):859-60.

OBJECTIVE: To review the advances in the treatment of human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection and revisit the medical, ethical, and legal issues 
surrounding infertility management in HIV-infected couples.
DESIGN: Analytic review.
RESULTS(S): HIV infection continues to be a serious public health and 
reproductive issue. However, present policies which allow for the categorical 
exclusion of HIV-infected individuals from infertility services should be 
reconsidered in light of improvements in the prognosis of infected individuals 
and a dramatic decrease in the risk of vertical transmission. An analysis of the 
ethical cogency of the arguments against the provision of services does not 
substantiate the exclusion of HIV-infected individuals; rather, the principle of 
justice requires that HIV-infected women be treated the same way as a woman who 
might have an increased risk of conceiving a child with a disability or a may 
have a decreased life expectancy due to a chronic illness such as diabetes. 
Ethical disagreement notwithstanding, with the precedents recently established 
by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), discrimination based on HIV status 
would also likely be unlawful under most circumstances.
CONCLUSIONS(S): With advances in the treatment of HIV infection, contextualized 
counseling and a respect for patients' decisions regarding infertility treatment 
should be adopted as public policy. It is neither ethically nor legally 
justifiable to categorically exclude individuals from infertility services on 
the basis of HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(01)01700-9
PMID: 11334892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2001 Jun;11(3):207-16. doi: 
10.1016/s1050-6411(00)00054-7.

Motor unit recruitment in the trapezius muscle with special reference to coarse 
arm movements.

Forsman M(1), Birch L, Zhang Q, Kadefors R.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Working Life, PO Box 8850, SE-402 72, Göteborg, 
Sweden. mikael.forsman@niwl.se

Chronic shoulder pain is common in a variety of occupations. The "Cinderella 
hypothesis" suggests that the pain originates from damaged type I muscle fibres 
driven into degenerative processes as a result of too long activation and too 
short recovery time. The main purpose of this study was to investigate if the 
same motor units are active during all phases of coarse arm movements. Eight 
healthy volunteers participated in the study. Intramuscular electromyographic 
signals were picked up with a four-lead fine wire electrode, during a unilateral 
straight arm movement. The movement started with either (part 1) an abduction or 
a flexion, then (2) a movement in the horizontal plane from the sagittal to the 
frontal plane or vice versa, and finally (3) an adduction or an extension to the 
start position. The movement cycle was performed in three different speeds, 
slow, medium, and high, with one, two or five cycles per 20 s, respectively. On 
an average, the motor unit action potentials (MUAPs) of 6 motor units (range, 
1-15) were identified per trail. In total 94% of the MUAP trains that were 
identified showed firings in all 3 parts of the movements. The findings support 
the Cinderella hypothesis, although there is a need to further investigate the 
temporal pattern of long-term motor unit activity.

DOI: 10.1016/s1050-6411(00)00054-7
PMID: 11335151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2001 Mar;2(3):385-93. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2.3.385.

Current treatment practice for essential thrombocythaemia in adults.

Griesshammer M(1), Bangerter M, Grünewald M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, Robert-Koch-Strasse 8, D-89081 Ulm, Federal 
Republic of Germany. martin.griesshammer@medizin.uni-ulm.de

Essential thrombocythaemia (ET) is a relatively benign chronic 
myeloproliferative disorder that occurs primarily in middle-aged patients. Its 
clinical course is characterised by thomboembolic and, less frequently, by 
haemorrhagic complications. Life expectancy of ET is generally of normal length 
and progression to acute leukaemia is a rare event. About one third of all 
patients are asymptomatic at diagnosis and many of them remain without 
complications for years. Therefore, the main challenge for treating patients 
with ET is to select patients who will benefit from a cytoreductive or 
antiplatelet therapy, because it is doubtful whether the beneficial effects of 
therapy outweigh the potential hazards in all cases. For this reason a risk 
stratification in high and low risk ET patients is essential. The treatment of 
ET has evolved from alkylating agents to hydroxyurea (HU) or pipobroman and more 
recently to agents such as IFN-alpha and anagrelide. Aspirin as an antiplatelet 
therapy is also expected to play a part in the treatment of ET. HU is first-line 
therapy for elderly patients with high risk ET. In young ET patients without ET 
related complications and a platelet count << 1000 - 1500 x 10(9)/l abstention 
from cytoreductive therapy or therapy with low-dose aspirin alone seems to be 
appropriate. The aim of this review is to address the current treatment practice 
for ET in adults.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2.3.385
PMID: 11336593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Cell. 2001 Apr 20;105(2):269-79. doi: 10.1016/s0092-8674(01)00317-8.

Crystal structure of a SIR2 homolog-NAD complex.

Min J(1), Landry J, Sternglanz R, Xu RM.

Author information:
(1)W. M. Keck Structural Biology Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold 
Spring Harbor, NY 11724, USA.

Comment in
    Cell. 2001 Apr 20;105(2):161-4.

The SIR2 protein family comprises a novel class of nicotinamide-adenine 
dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent protein deacetylases that function in 
transcriptional silencing, DNA repair, and life-span extension in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. Two crystal structures of a SIR2 homolog from Archaeoglobus fulgidus 
complexed with NAD have been determined at 2.1 A and 2.4 A resolutions. The 
structures reveal that the protein consists of a large domain having a Rossmann 
fold and a small domain containing a three-stranded zinc ribbon motif. NAD is 
bound in a pocket between the two domains. A distinct mode of NAD binding and an 
unusual configuration of the zinc ribbon motif are observed. The structures also 
provide important insights into the catalytic mechanism of NAD-dependent protein 
deacetylation by this family of enzymes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0092-8674(01)00317-8
PMID: 11336676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Jun;9(3):234-40. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00143-5.

Initial results of ultrasound screening for aneurysm of the abdominal aorta in 
Western Australia: relevance for endoluminal treatment of aneurysm disease.

Lawrence-Brown MM(1), Norman PE, Jamrozik K, Semmens JB, Donnelly NJ, Spencer C, 
Tuohy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Australia. 
mlabrown@iinet.net.au

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy in men during the last thirty years is 
largely due to the decrease in mortality from cardiovascular disease in the age 
group 29--69 yr. This change has resulted in a change in the disease profile of 
the population with conditions such as aneurysm of the abdominal aorta (AAA) 
becoming more prevalent. The advent of endoluminal treatment for AAA has 
encouraged prophylactic intervention and fueled the argument to screen for the 
disease. The feasibility of inserting an endoluminal graft is dependent on the 
morphology and growth characteristics of the aneurysm. This study used data from 
a randomized controlled trial of ultrasound screening for AAA in men aged 65--83 
yr in Western Australia for the purpose of determining the norms of the living 
anatomy in the pressurized infrarenal aorta.
AIMS: To examine (1) the diameters of the infra-renal aorta in aneurysmal and 
non-aneurysmal cases, (2) the implications for treatment modalities, with 
particular reference to endoluminal grafting, which is most dependent on normal 
and aneurysmal morphology, and (3) any evidence to support the notion that 
northern Europeans are predisposed to aneurysmal disease.
METHODS: Using ultrasound, a randomized control trial was established in Western 
Australia to assess the value of a screening program in males aged 65--83 yr. 
The infra-renal aorta was defined as aneurysmal if the maximum diameter was 30 
mm or more. Aortic diameter was modelled both as a continuous (in mm) and as a 
binary outcome variable, for those men who had an infra-renal diameter of 30 mm 
or more. ANOVA and linear regression were used for modelling aortic diameter as 
a continuum, while chi-square analysis and logistic regression were used in 
comparing men with and without the diagnosis of AAA.
FINDINGS: By December 1998, of 19,583 men had been invited to undergo ultrasound 
screening for AAA, 12,203 accepted the invitation (corrected response fraction 
70.8%). The prevalence of AAA increased with age from 4.8% at 65 yr to 10.8% at 
80 yr (chi(2)=77.9, df=3, P<0.001). The median (IQR) diameter for the 
non-aneurysmal group was 21.4 mm (3.3 mm) and there was an increase 
(chi(2)=76.0, df=1, P<0.001) in the diameter of the infra-renal aorta with age. 
Since 27 mm is the 95th centile for the non-aneurysmal infra-renal aorta, a 
diameter of 30 mm or more is justified as defining an aneurysm. The risk of AAA 
was higher in men of Australian (OR=1.0) and northern European origin (OR=1.0, 
95%CL: 0.9, 1.2) compared with those of Mediterranean origin (OR=0.5, 95%CL: 
0.4, 0.7).
CONCLUSION: Although screening has not yet been shown to reduce mortality from 
AAA, these population-based data assist the understanding of aneurysmal disease 
and the further development and use of endoluminal grafts for this condition.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(00)00143-5
PMID: 11336846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Urology. 2001 May;57(5):943-5. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(01)00943-8.

Results of a screening program for prostate cancer in patients scheduled for 
abdominoperineal resection for colorectal pathologic findings.

Terris MK(1), Wren SM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, 
California, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Because of the difficulty of accessing the prostate for tissue 
sampling after surgical removal of the rectum and obliteration of the anus, we 
started an early detection program for prostate cancer in all men scheduled for 
abdominoperineal resection.
METHODS: Twenty consecutive men were screened for prostatic adenocarcinoma 
before planned abdominoperineal resection for colorectal pathologic findings. 
Patients were 48 to 77 years old (mean 66.9). Screening included serum 
prostate-specific antigen determination and digital rectal examination. Those 
patients with suspicious findings underwent transrectal ultrasound-guided 
sextant biopsies of the prostate.
RESULTS: One patient was excluded because of a prior history of prostate cancer. 
Six (31.6%) of the remaining 19 patients demonstrated elevated prostate-specific 
antigen levels (greater than 4.0 ng/mL); two of these patients also had an 
abnormal digital rectal examination. Transrectal ultrasound and prostate 
biopsies in these 6 patients revealed prostatic adenocarcinoma in 3 patients 
(50% of those undergoing biopsies or 15.8% of those screened). The 13 patients 
who did not undergo prostate biopsies had prostate-specific antigen levels from 
0.4 to 2.4 ng/mL (mean 0.9) and normal prostate glands according to the digital 
rectal examinations.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for prostate cancer in men 50 years old or older with 10 
years or longer life expectancy before they undergo abdominoperineal resection 
detects a significant number of prostatic malignancies and should be encouraged.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(01)00943-8
PMID: 11337299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Can J Public Health. 2001 Mar-Apr;92(2):121-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03404945.

Heart disease risk factor prevalence and profiles in a randomized community 
sample of Canadian women.

Plotnikoff RC(1), Hugo K, Cousineau N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Promotion Studies, University of Alberta, 5-10A University 
Extension Centre, 8303-112 Street, Edmonton, AB T6G 2T4. 
ron.plotnikoff@ualberta.ca

This study examined the prevalence and profiles of behavioural and biomedical 
risk factors of heart disease in a randomized community sample of 843 Canadian 
women. Sociodemographic characteristics were also examined to determine their 
association with women who have multiple primary risk factors versus risk 
factor-free women. A greater proportion of high-risk women (n = 81) reported to 
have less education, lower income and employment levels and were more likely to 
live without a partner than women with no primary risk factors (n = 135). These 
findings contribute to the understanding of the growing complexity of addressing 
heart health beyond lifestyle behaviours as articulated by the Victoria (1992), 
Catelonia (1995), Singapore (1998) and Women's International (2000) Declarations 
on Heart Health. Public health planning should continue to address physical 
activity, smoking and dietary behaviours across age groups with a concentrated 
effort to target high-risk, socio-economically disadvantaged women. Risk 
assessment for heart disease must also include sociodemographic characteristics 
for tailoring heart health programs in the community.

Nous avons étudié la prévalence et le profil des facteurs de risque de 
cardiopathie liés au comportement et aux aspects biomédicaux d’un échantillon 
aléatoire de 843 Canadiennes vivant dans la collectivité. Nous avons également 
examiné les caractéristiques socio-démographiques, dont nous avons voulu 
déterminer les liens avec les femmes présentant plusieurs facteurs de risque 
primaires et avec celles n’en présentant aucun. Les femmes à risque élevé (n=81) 
étaient proportionnellement plus nombreuses à déclarer des niveaux 
d’instruction, de revenu et d’emploi inférieurs et plus susceptibles de vivre 
sans partenaire que les femmes ne présentant aucun facteur de risque primaire 
(n=135). Ces constatations jettent un nouvel éclairage sur la question de plus 
en plus complexe de la santé cardiovasculaire, au delà les habitudes de vie 
recensées dans les déclarations sur la santé cardiovasculaire de Victoria 
(1992), de Catalogne (1995) et de Singapour (1998) et la déclaration 
internationale des femmes (2000). Les planificateurs en santé publique doivent 
continuer à se pencher sur l’activité physique, le tabagisme et les habitudes 
alimentaires dans tous les groupes d’âges en concentrant leurs efforts sur les 
femmes à risque élevé, défavorisées sur le plan socio-économique. En outre, 
l’évaluation des risques de cardiopathie doit tenir compte des caractéristiques 
sociodémographiques pour que les programmes de santé cardiovasculaire soient 
adaptés aux différentes collectivités.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404945
PMCID: PMC6979858
PMID: 11338150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Can J Public Health. 2001 Mar-Apr;92(2):95-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03404938.

The north-south gradient in health: analytic applications for public health.

Veugelers PJ(1), Yip AM, Mq D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dalhousie University, 5849 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 4H7. 
Paul.Veugelers@dal.ca

Health in the northern territories does not reach that of national standards. 
Investigations in these areas are hampered by small population size, which 
limits both the identification of local health problems as well as the planning 
and prioritizing of prevention and interventions. We report on health 
deficiencies of the northern territories and illustrate how our analytic 
applications supplement traditional approaches to benefit public health 
objectives. We reveal that life expectancy in Northern Canada has increased such 
that health deficiencies between the North and South have decreased 
substantially, although they still persist at a high level. The current health 
status of Northwest Territories residents approximates that of Canadians 15 to 
25 years ago. In addition, while chronic diseases were previously less of a 
concern for Northwest Territories residents, they show increasing trends in 
importance. This is of particular significance in light of an aging population 
in the northern territories.

L’état de santé des résidents du Nord n’égale pas celui des Canadiens en 
général. Les enquêtes sur les problèmes locaux de santé sont entravées par la 
petite taille de la population, qui nuit à la fois au recensement des problèmes, 
à la planification de la prévention et des interventions et à la détermination 
des priorités. Notre étude rend compte des lacunes des territoires du Nord sur 
le plan de la santé et illustre la façon dont nos applications analytiques 
peuvent compléter les méthodes traditionnelles et contribuer à l’atteinte des 
objectifs de santé publique. Nous démontrons que l’espérance de vie dans le Nord 
du Canada a augmenté dans une proportion telle que les écarts entre le Nord et 
le Sud sur le plan de la santé ont considérablement diminué, bien qu’ils soient 
encore importants. L’état de santé actuel des résidents des Territoires du 
Nord-Ouest (T.N.-O.) s’apparente à celui des Canadiens il y a 15 ou 25 ans. Par 
ailleurs, les maladies chroniques, qui étaient auparavant un problème mineur 
chez les résidents des T.N.-O., gagnent en importance. Cela pose un problème 
particulier, étant donné le vieillissement de la population dans les territoires 
nordiques.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404938
PMCID: PMC6980191
PMID: 11338161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2001 Mar;94(3):211-7.

[Antihypertensive therapy and improved life expectancy without cerebrovascular 
accident or coronary artery disease].

[Article in French]

Kassaï B(1), Gueyffier F, Cucherat M, Boissel JP.

Author information:
(1)EA 643/Service de pharmacologie clinique, faculté RTH Laennec, rue 
Guillaume-Paradin, BP 8071-69376 Lyon.

The absolute benefit from antihypertensive therapy increases with the baseline 
risk. However, age is a major determinant of cardiovascular risk, so it is 
important to express therapeutic efficacy with indices for which age is not a 
confounder. With this aim we explored the expected gain in life expectancy 
without cardiovascular events according to age at the initiation of the 
treatment. The treatment effect estimated from the INDANA meta-analysis, was 
applied to the cardiovascular risk of a French hypertensive population, 
simulated from national vital statistics. The gain in life expectancy was 
estimated from the area between survival curves without events. The treatment 
effect varied according three different hypotheses: increasing, decreasing or 
constant effect. When assuming a constant treatment effect, our results show a 
29 month gain without stroke for a man who began his treatment at 40 years, and 
15 months if hypertension is screened and treatment initiated at 75 years. The 
gains without coronary heart disease are respectively of 11 and 6 months. The 
variation of treatment effect over time could have a major impact on the 
treatment benefit. The gain in life expectancy without events is a relevant 
decision tool, completing usefully the absolute benefit, since it takes into 
account the influence of age.

PMID: 11338256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Health Soc Work. 2001 Feb;26(1):38-48. doi: 10.1093/hsw/26.1.38.

The need to revise assumptions about the end of life: implications for social 
work practice.

Bern-Klug M(1), Gessert C, Forbes S.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, University of Kansas Medical Center, USA. mbernklu@kumc.edu

During the 20th century the experience of dying changed dramatically. At the 
beginning of the 1900s, dying and death were integral parts of the life 
experience of most people at any age. Many deaths occurred at home following a 
short course of illness largely unaffected by the limited medical care 
available. At the beginning of the 21st century, in many cases, the process of 
dying has become invisible. Today, most deaths occur in old age. Social workers 
have a key role as "context interpreters" in helping people at the end of life 
and their families understand the natural course of the illness, the process of 
dying, and the advantages and drawbacks of medical interventions. An expanded 
role for social workers in helping people comprehend the medical and social 
contexts within which they face end-of-life decisions is discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/hsw/26.1.38
PMID: 11338278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Ethiop Med J. 2001 Jan;39(1):9-22.

Demographic impact of HIV/AIDS in Addis Ababa.

Abdurehman A(1), Enquoselassie F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, 
P.O. Box 9086, Addis Ababa.

Using secondary data from various sources, a model was adopted as installed in 
Demproj. software program to determine the demographic impact of HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in Addis Ababa. It was found that the adult HIV prevalence will reach a 
plateau level of about 10.8% in the year 2001 and 10.3% in the year 2004 
respectively. AIDS will slow the decline in infant mortality rate and under 5 
mortality rates and will increase crude death rate and lower the life expectancy 
at birth by about 15 years by 2004 compared to the "no AIDS" scenario. AIDS will 
reduce the size of the Addis Ababa population by about 160,000 people by the 
year 2004, but will not stop or make its growth negative. Based on the above 
findings preventive measures such as STD control, condom promotion, IEC and 
blood screening, and approaching the problem multisectorally, incorporating the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic in the demographic projection and establishing HIV/AIDS data 
base were recommended.

PMID: 11338471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2000;12 Suppl:S18-20.

Public health nutrition: results and research.

Binns CW(1), Leong JF.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Curtin University of Technology, GPO Box U 1987, 
Perth, Western Australia 6845, Australia. cbinns@health.curtin.edu.au

Public health nutrition is focused on the prevention of diet-related diseases 
and the attainment of good health, through policy, education and health 
promotion. It involves many sectors of the community, cooperating to improve the 
health and wellbeing of the population with emphasis on prevention, equity, 
wellbeing and improved quality of life. In the majority of western countries, an 
epidemic of coronary heart disease (CHD) began after World War One, reaching its 
peak in the 1970's. In Asia, the epidemic began after WW2 with the rapid 
economic development of the region. In western countries, of which Australia is 
a typical example, health promotion activities and improved hospital treatment 
have been effective in reducing the impact of the CHD epidemic. The life 
expectancy of the population has steadily grown to 75.6 years for males and 81.3 
years for females. Despite major advances in the prevention and treatment of 
cardiovascular disease, it is still the leading cause of premature mortality and 
morbidity in Australia. Furthermore, cardiovascular disease shares common risk 
factors with other leading causes of death, including lifestyle behaviours 
(diet, physical inactivity, alcohol consumption, smoking), physiological states 
(obesity, hypertension, high blood cholesterol) and socioeconomic factors. For 
Asia, the challenge is to implement public health policies that will tackle the 
epidemic of chronic disease before it reaches its peak. Health Promotion 
policies will be important for all countries. The use of the disability adjusted 
life years (DALY) methodology to measure the association between the cause of 
disease and relate its occurrence to health outcomes will be an important public 
health planning tool.

PMID: 11338731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2000;12 Suppl:S71-3.

Controlling health care costs whilst improving population health: what are the 
issues and can it be done in Hong Kong?

Boldy D(1), Lewis J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Curtin University of Technology, GPO Box U1987, 
Perth, Western Australia 6845.

Many countries are experiencing two related types of 'transition', one leading 
to Improved Population Health, but the other leading to Rising Health Care 
Costs. This paper will present and discuss a conceptual framework for each of 
these trends, which illustrate key factors that are, or may be, contributing to 
such outcomes. Factors contributing to improved population health include: 
health promotion and disease prevention; effective public health; effective 
housing policies. Factors contributing to Rising Health Care Costs include: 
demographic transition, increasing life expectancy; medical technology. Hong 
Kong is currently digesting the recommendations of the 'Harvard Report', which 
considered future options for meeting the following five reform objectives: (1) 
Maintaining and improving equity; (2) Improving quality and efficiency; (3) 
Improving financial sustainability; (4) Meeting the future needs of the 
population; (5) Managing overall health expenditure inflation. As can be seen, 
the two related transition trends of improved population health and rising 
health care costs are reflected in these objectives. The Harvard Report 
recommends a Competitive Integrated Health Care option as the most appropriate 
'solution' for Hong Kong in the long run. The paper will briefly comment on this 
proposal.

PMID: 11338744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Med Confl Surviv. 2001 Jan-Mar;17(1):56-62. doi: 10.1080/13623690108409555.

Sustainable energy, economic growth and public health.

Haines A(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Free and University College Medical School, London.

Dramatic economic growth over the last 50 years has been accompanied by widening 
inequalities world-wide in wealth and energy consumption, diminished life 
expectancy in some countries, and deteriorating indices of environmental 
sustainability including loss of bio-diversity. Raised output of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) and other greenhouse gases due to increased economic and industrial 
activity is causing progressive climate change, leading in turn to direct and 
indirect adverse effects on health. Emissions of greenhouse gases can be lowered 
by increased use of renewable energy sources, for example, wind power in the 
United Kingdom (UK), greater energy efficiency and other measures to promote 
sustainability. The experience of some developing countries shows that 
favourable indicators of health and development can accompany a low output of 
greenhouse gases. It is unclear whether contemporary political and social 
systems can deliver improved human development without increased use of fossil 
fuels and other resources.

DOI: 10.1080/13623690108409555
PMID: 11339344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Apr;49(2):98-100. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-11698.

Long-term problems after cavopulmonary anastomosis: diagnosis and management.

Hess J(1).

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Munich, Germany. HESS@dhm.mhn.de

After nearly three decades, the "Fontan-like" surgical approach for tricuspid 
atresia and other forms of functional univentricular heart disease have 
substantially improved life expectancy and functional status of these patients. 
However, over the years, complications such as persisting or reoccurring 
cyanosis, dysrhythmia, thromboembolism, protein-losing enteropathy and exercise 
intolerance have increasingly been reported. The management of these 
complications are related to their association with residual or recurrent 
structural lesions, which can be treated by catheter intervention or surgery, 
and to pathophysiological sequelae, directly associated to the specific 
characteristics of "Fontan-like" circulation. The recent modification might 
reduce this type of complication; however, hard data on this are not available 
yet.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-11698
PMID: 11339460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Eye (Lond). 2001 Apr;15(Pt 2):209-12. doi: 10.1038/eye.2001.63.

Short-term mortality among middle-aged cataract surgery patients.

McKibbin M(1), Mohammed M, James TE, Atkinson PL.

Author information:
(1)Bradford Royal Infirmary, UK. martinmckibbin@cswebmail.com

PURPOSE: To investigate the short-term mortality of middle-aged patients 
undergoing cataract surgery in the United Kingdom (UK), to compare this with the 
expected mortality for the UK population of similar age and to try to identify 
at-risk groups.
METHODS: In a retrospective study, the 5-10 year mortality of all middle-aged 
patients undergoing cataract surgery between 1989 and 1993 was determined. 
Expected mortality was calculated from UK Interim Life Tables for 1991. Cox's 
regression analysis was performed using age, sex and self-assigned ethnic group 
as variables.
RESULTS: From the 709 patients in the study group, there were 86 deaths. This is 
significantly greater than expected (p < 0.01). Ethnic minority status (hazard 
ratio = 1.72, confidence interval = 1.12-2.64) and male sex (HR = 1.68, CI = 
1.08-2.63) were found to be significantly associated with early mortality (p < 
0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that, for some middle-aged patients, cataract 
is associated with a reduced life expectancy and may be a feature of premature 
ageing, reflecting systemic ill-health. Screening these and younger patients for 
systemic disease when they present with cataract provides the best opportunity 
to affect this increased mortality. The findings of this study are particularly 
relevant for patients from ethnic minority groups.
