1. Acta Neuropathol. 2001 Apr;101(4):334-40. doi: 10.1007/s004010000261.

High cyclin E/low p27Kip1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in 
astrocytomas.

Tamiya T(1), Mizumatsu S, Ono Y, Abe T, Matsumoto K, Furuta T, Ohmoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Medical School, 2-5-1 
Shikata-cho, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. ttamiya@med.okayama-u.ac.jp

Cyclin E and p27Kip1 are co-regulators of the G1- to S-phase transition and 
closely related to tumor behavior. The purpose of this study was to examine 
expression of cyclin E and p27Kip1 in astrocytomas and to evaluate the 
relationships between expression of these cell-cycle regulators and prognosis of 
patients with astrocytoma. Tissue samples from 130 astrocytomas (WHO grade 1 n = 
5, grade 2 n = 23, grade 3 n = 64, grade 4 n = 38) were examined 
immunohistochemically for cyclin E and p27Kip1 expression. Patient charts were 
reviewed for clinical presentation, and survival was followed. The cyclin E 
labeling index (LI) tended to increase with tumor grade (Kruskal-Wallis, P = 
0.0104). For patients with primary astrocytomas, the 50% survival times for the 
low cyclin E LI (< 5%) group and the high cyclin E LI (> or = 5%) group were 
53.7 months and 19.8 months. In combined analysis of cyclin E and p27Kip1 
expression, the low cyclin E/high p27Kip1 LI (> or = 50%) group had the best 
survival (50% survival time: 103.2 months), the low cyclin E/low p27Kip1 LI (> 
or = 50%) and the high cyclin E/high p27Kip1 LI groups moderate survival (24.1 
and 27.5 months), and the high cyclin E/low p27Kip1 LI group the worst survival 
(13.1 months). Multivariate analysis identified the combined factor, high cyclin 
E/low p27Kip1, as a novel independent prognostic factor for survival time (P = 
0.0037, relative risk = 2.4). This study suggested that combined analysis of 
cyclin E and p27Kip1 expression was considered to be potentially useful in 
predicting the prognosis of patients with astrocytoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010000261
PMID: 11355304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Cancer Radiother. 2001 Apr;5(2):150-4. doi: 10.1016/s1278-3218(00)00050-0.

[Primary sino-nasal lymphomas. Apropos of 25 cases].

[Article in French]

Boussen H(1), Sethom A, Beddouihech N, Touati S, Gamoudi A, Gritli S, El May A, 
Ferjaoui M, Benna F, Ladgham A.

Author information:
(1)Institut Salah-Azaïz, Tunis, Tunisie.

PURPOSE: To report on the epidemiological and therapeutic features of a series 
of Tunisian patients treated for primitive sinonasal lymphoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Our retrospective study concerns patients with 
histologically proven primitive sinonasal lymphoma diagnosed and treated at our 
institution from 1975 to 1997. Initial work-up included: clinical plus ENT 
examination, WBC, ESR, LDH, abdominal ultrasonography, bone marrow biopsy and 
facial CT-scan taken since 1985. All slides are reviewed and reclassified using 
the Kiel system. Treatment is based on radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy 
(mainly with the CHOP protocol).
RESULTS: We collected 25 patients (22 males and three females, sex-ratio = 7) 
with a mean age of 48 years (18 to 78). Mean delay of consultation is 4 months 
and patients consulted mainly for nasal obstruction (65%), more rarely epistaxis 
(40%) or rhinorrhea. ENT examination showed a fungating nasal fossa tumor in 20% 
of cases, predominantly unilateral (80%), associated to cervical nodes in 25% of 
cases. High-grade lymphomas represented 60% of the cases, and 60% of the 
patients were stage IE. All stage IEs have been treated by exclusive 
radiotherapy while more advanced stages received combined chemo- and 
radiotherapy (eight patients). The five-year actuarial survival rate was 69% for 
the whole population, with a better prognosis for localized stage and low-grade 
lymphomas.
DISCUSSION: Radiotherapy remains a standard treatment for sinonasal lymphomas, 
permitting us to cure localized stages. In extended stages (more than IE), 
combined chemoradiotherapy seems to be a good option, especially in case of 
bulky tumors as observed for the other nodal and extra-nodal head and neck 
lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(00)00050-0
PMID: 11355579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Scand J Public Health. 2001 Mar;29(1):5-12. doi: 10.1177/14034948010290010501.

Health expectancy in Greenland.

Iburg KM(1), Brønnum-Hansen H, Bjerregaard P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. kmi@dike.dk

BACKGROUND: Mortality and disease patterns in Greenland have greatly changed 
since the 1950s. Infectious diseases have decreased markedly; chronic diseases, 
suicides and violent deaths have increased.
METHODS: Life tables for the period 1991-95 were used and health status was 
derived from the 1993/94 Greenland Health Interview Survey. Health expectancy 
for the Inuit population of Greenland was calculated by an index suggested by 
Sullivan.
RESULTS: Greenland Inuit women live longer than men, but the expected lifetime 
in self-rated good health was shorter for women than for men. Chronic disease 
rates are high in Greenland, and consequently many healthy life years are lost, 
especially because of musculoskeletal diseases. Health expectancy decreases with 
age, but for this Inuit population the proportion of healthy life years 
increases after the age of 60, especially among men.
CONCLUSION: The many healthy life years lost in Greenland according to 
self-rated poor health and chronic diseases should be a cause for concern in 
public health planning in Greenland. Special attention should also be paid to 
future investigations of regional patterns of health in Greenland, since there 
is great population heterogeneity according to geography and urbanization.

DOI: 10.1177/14034948010290010501
PMID: 11355717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Ann Intern Med. 2001 May 15;134(10):S-6.

Summaries for patients. Social status and life expectancy in an advantaged 
population: a study of Academy Award-winning actors.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11357860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2001 Apr;25(2):141-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2001.tb01836.x.

Modelling physical activity: a multi-state life-table approach.

Tobias MI(1), Roberts MG.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Wellington, New Zealand. martin_tobias@moh.govt.nz

OBJECTIVE: To develop a consistent set of epidemiological estimates (incidence, 
prevalence, remission, mortality) for physical activity in New Zealand; project 
these estimates in the light of demographic trends; and predict the 
effectiveness of different health promotion strategies.
METHOD: Multi-state life tables were constructed using physical inactivity 
prevalence data from the 1996/97 New Zealand Health Survey, and estimates of the 
relative risk of mortality, and of remission rates, from the literature. 
Statistics New Zealand population projections were used to forecast these 
multi-state life tables to 2021. Two physical activity health promotion 
strategies -uptake (remission enhancement) and maintenance (incidence or relapse 
reduction)--were simulated by changing the relevant epidemiological variables.
RESULTS: The current fatal burden of physical inactivity in New Zealand is 
estimated to be 2,600 deaths per year (9% of all deaths). By 2021, the 
prevalence of physical inactivity will rise 4% as a result of demographic 
trends. Relapse reduction (enabling active people to remain active) is about 50% 
more effective than uptake enhancement (enabling inactive people to become 
active) as a physical activity health promotion strategy, but the two approaches 
are additive. Maximum realistic changes in relapse prevention and uptake 
enhancement could reduce the prevalence of physical inactivity by about 30%.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Multi-state life table methods can be used to 
model health risks (such as behaviours), as well as (chronic) diseases. The 
model has provided valuable insights for policy makers into the burden of 
physical inactivity in New Zealand, the impact of demographic trends, and the 
relative effectiveness of different health promotion strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2001.tb01836.x
PMID: 11357910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2001 Apr;15(2):265-78. doi: 
10.1053/beog.2001.0167.

Palliative radiation therapy for gynaecological malignancies.

Smith SC(1), Koh WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington Medical Center, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Patients with advanced, recurrent, or metastatic gynaecological malignancies 
constitute a heterogenous population with diverse symptomatology. Progressive 
abdominopelvic disease can result in vaginal or diffuse pelvic bleeding, pain, 
and visceral or lymphovascular obstruction. Gynaecological cancer can also 
develop debilitating metastases, in particular to bone, central nervous system, 
or chest. Radiation therapy is a local-regional treatment modality, that, when 
applied judiciously, can lead to substantial symptomatic relief and tumour 
response. Individualized application is necessary, balancing efficacy and 
patient convenience versus treatment intensity, expected duration of palliation 
and potential toxicity. Important factors to consider are a patient's 
performance status, extent and sites of tumour, specific symptoms, and life 
expectancy. The optimal incorporation of radiotherapy is best achieved in the 
context of a multidisciplinary approach that addresses all facets of palliative 
care in patients with incurable gynaecological malignancies, to maximize their 
quality of life and functional level.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/beog.2001.0167
PMID: 11358401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. BMJ. 2001 May 19;322(7296):1233-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.322.7296.1233.

Psychosocial and material pathways in the relation between income and health: a 
response to Lynch et al.

Marmot M(1), Wilkinson RG.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, University College London, London WC1E 6BT. M.Marmot@ucl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.322.7296.1233
PMCID: PMC1120336
PMID: 11358781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Science. 2001 May 18;292(5520):1319-25. doi: 10.1126/science.1060786.

RNA-catalyzed RNA polymerization: accurate and general RNA-templated primer 
extension.

Johnston WK(1), Unrau PJ, Lawrence MS, Glasner ME, Bartel DP.

Author information:
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and Department of Biology, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Science. 2001 May 18;292(5520):1278.

The RNA world hypothesis regarding the early evolution of life relies on the 
premise that some RNA sequences can catalyze RNA replication. In support of this 
conjecture, we describe here an RNA molecule that catalyzes the type of 
polymerization needed for RNA replication. The ribozyme uses nucleoside 
triphosphates and the coding information of an RNA template to extend an RNA 
primer by the successive addition of up to 14 nucleotides-more than a complete 
turn of an RNA helix. Its polymerization activity is general in terms of the 
sequence and the length of the primer and template RNAs, provided that the 3' 
terminus of the primer pairs with the template. Its polymerization is also quite 
accurate: when primers extended by 11 nucleotides were cloned and sequenced, 
1088 of 1100 sequenced nucleotides matched the template.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1060786
PMID: 11358999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 1999;1(2):75-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00095.x.

On cutting torque measurements during implant placement: a 3-year clinical 
prospective study.

Friberg B(1), Sennerby L, Gröndahl K, Bergström C, Bäck T, Lekholm U.

Author information:
(1)Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service and Faculty of Odontology, 
Göteborg University, Göteborg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Evaluation of jaw bone quality at implant placement is mainly based 
on preoperative radiographic assessments and subjective hand registrations 
during implant site preparation. An objective technique with cutting torque 
measurements has been introduced, presenting an objective bone quality or bone 
hardness value of individual implant sites.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate cutting torque measurements 
during implant placement and to compare these values in different regions in 
mandibles and maxillae. The objective was to identify implants at risk for 
failing at implant placement.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Cutting torque measurements were performed during 
placement of Mk II self-tapping implants (Brånemark System) in 105 patients, 
comprising 72 edentulous (40 maxillae) and 34 partially edentulous (22 maxillae) 
jaws. A total of 523 implants were inserted, of which 420 were of the Mk II 
design and of which 412 were subjected to cutting torque measurements. 
Statistical analyses were performed by comparing cutting torque values of 
maxillae and mandibles and of different jaw regions. Cutting torque values were 
also correlated with radiographically and clinically assessed bone quality 
scores. Patients were followed clinically for a minimum of 3 years.
RESULTS: A statistically significant difference in cutting torque values of 
maxillae and mandibles was seen, although not when comparing anterior and 
posterior regions within the same jaws or of different jaws. Significant 
correlations were found between values of cutting torque and bone quality. The 
majority of failures were seen in bone of medium to high density, whereas 
implants inserted in bone of poor density presented a better outcome, perhaps 
due to an adapted surgical protocol and an extended healing period. The overall 
implant survival rate at 3 years was 95%, and when analyzing different jaw 
categories, survival rates of 92.0% and 99.4% were seen for edentulous maxillae 
and mandibles, respectively. The corresponding figures for partially edentulous 
jaws were 95.4% and 97.6%.
CONCLUSION: It was not possible to identify sites at risk for future implant 
losses or to determine a lower limit value of cutting torque in order to achieve 
successful implant integration.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00095.x
PMID: 11359301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 1999;1(2):84-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00096.x.

Clinical experiences of implant-supported prostheses with laser-welded titanium 
frameworks in the partially edentulous jaw: a 5-year follow-up study.

Ortorp A(1), Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)Prosthetic Division, Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Titanium frameworks have been used in the endentulous implant 
patient for the last 10 years. However, knowledge of titanium frameworks for the 
partially dentate patient is limited.
PURPOSE: To report the 5-year clinical performance of implant-supported 
prostheses with laser-welded titanium frameworks in the partially edentulous 
jaw.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A consecutive group of 383 partially edentulous patients 
were, on a routine basis, provided with fixed partial prostheses supported by 
Brånemark implants in the mandible or maxilla. Besides conventional frameworks 
in cast gold alloy, 58 patients were provided with titanium frameworks with 
three different veneering techniques, and clinical and radiographic 5-year data 
were collected for this group.
RESULTS: The overall cumulative survival rate was 95.6% for titanium-framework 
prostheses and 93.6% for implants. Average bone loss during the follow-up period 
was 0.4 mm. The most common complications were minor veneering fractures. Loose 
and fractured implant screw components were fewer than 2%. An observation was 
that patients on medications for cardiovascular problems may lose more implants 
than others (p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical performance of prostheses with implant-supported 
laser-welded titanium frameworks was similar to that reported for conventional 
cast frames in partially edentulous jaws. Low-fusing porcelain veneers also 
showed clinical performance comparable to that reported for conventional 
porcelain-fused-to-metal techniques.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00096.x
PMID: 11359302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 1999;1(1):27-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00088.x.

Five-year evaluation of implants placed at extraction and with dehiscences and 
fenestration defects augmented with ePTFE membranes: results from a prospective 
multicenter study.

Becker W(1), Dahlin C, Lekholm U, Bergstrom C, van Steenberghe D, Higuchi K, 
Becker BE.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California School of Dentistry, Los Angeles, 
California, USA. branebill@AOL.com

BACKGROUND: Barrier membranes have been used to promote bone ingrowth on 
implants with dehiscences and fenestrations. Membranes also have been used to 
protect defects adjacent to implants placed at the time of extraction. The 
concept of guided bone regeneration relates to preferentially allowing cells 
from bone to migrate into various defects while excluding fibrous tissue and 
epithelium. The purpose of these procedures is to enhance bone-to-implant 
contact at the treated sites and to prevent mucosal complications.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to report clinical outcomes for implants 
placed at the time of extraction and augmented with expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) and followed for 5 years. The outcomes for 
implants with dehiscences and fenestrations augmented with ePTFE barriers and 
followed up to 5 years also are reported.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Four treatment centers participated in this study 
(Tucson, Gothenburg, Spokane, and Leuven). In the extraction group, teeth were 
removed for varying reasons, and Brånemark implants were placed and stabilized 
within the host bone. Defects present at the coronal implant aspect were covered 
with ePTFE barrier membranes. Flaps were rotated to cover the membrane-treated 
sites. If exposure of the material occurred prior to second-stage surgery, the 
membranes were removed. Barriers remaining unexposed were removed at 
second-stage surgery. The implants were followed up to 5 years. In the 
fenestration and dehiscence group, implants with exposed threads were augmented 
with ePTFE barrier membranes. The barriers were removed at appropriate 
intervals, and the patients were followed up to 5 years. Radiographic 
measurements were made from nonstandardized periapical radiographs at abutment 
connection and 1, 3, and 5-year follow-up visits.
RESULTS: Forty patients participated in the extraction group. They received a 
total of 49 implants. Three implants failed prior to loading. The 5-year 
cumulative survival rates for implants placed at the time of extraction were 
93.9% and 93.8%, respectively, for maxillary and mandibular implants. The 
average maxillary mesial and distal marginal bone loss (1-5 yr) was 0.3 mm 
(standard deviation [SD] = 1.5) and 0.3 mm (SD = 1.0). In mandibles, the average 
mesial and distal bone loss (1-5 yr) was -0.2 mm (SD = 0.5) and -0.05 mm (SD = 
0.6), respectively. The dehiscence and fenestration group included 44 patients. 
Twenty-six were followed for up to 5 years. Eight patients experienced total 
implant failure. For dehiscences and fenestrations, the cumulative survival 
rates were 76.8% and 83.8% for maxillary and mandibular implants, respectively. 
The average maxillary mesial and distal bone loss (1-5 yr) was 0.4 mm (SD = 0.8) 
and 0.2 mm (SD = 0.9), respectively. In mandibles, the average mesial and distal 
marginal bone loss was 0.3 mm (SD = 0.9) and 0.3 mm (SD = 0.8), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Implants placed at the time of extraction and augmented with ePTFE 
barrier membranes have favorable long-term predictability. On the other hand, 
long-term evaluation of implant dehiscences and fenestrations augmented with 
barrier membranes indicates that they have less favorable 5-year survival rates. 
Membrane augmentation of these may be questioned.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00088.x
PMID: 11359308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 1999;1(1):49-56. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00091.x.

Complications in partially edentulous implant patients: a 5-year retrospective 
follow-up study of 133 patients supplied with unilateral maxillary prostheses.

Wennerberg A(1), Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Oral Rehabilitation/Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, 
Göteborg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Numerous studies have reported successful outcomes for restoration 
of fully edentulous patients with Brånemark implants. However, some studies 
indicate more mechanical problems in restored partially edentulous situations.
PURPOSE: The objective was to study patients with potential risk for mechanical 
complications after implant treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients were retrospectively evaluated 5 years after 
implant treatment in upper jaw Appelgate-Kennedy Class II situations. Altogether 
422 implants ad modum Brånemark were installed in 137 consecutively treated 
patients. One hundred thirty-three prostheses were placed and followed-up for 5 
years, according to routine clinical protocols.
RESULTS: The overall 5-year implant cumulative survival rate (CSR) was 94.0%. 
The corresponding CSR for loaded implants and prostheses was 97.7% and 98.4%, 
respectively, and the overall marginal bone loss was 0.8 mm (+/- 0.6 mm) after 5 
years. Sixteen abutment screws fractured in seven patients (5%) and 17 
prostheses (13%) presented loose abutment or gold screws during the follow-up 
period. Significantly more problems were reported in association with prostheses 
that included the canine (p < .05), and significantly more gold screws were 
working loose when only two implants were supporting the frameworks (p < .01).
CONCLUSIONS: Upper jaw implant treatment in unilateral free-end situations seems 
to involve more mechanical problems than other implant treatment groups when 
only two implants can be installed and when the canine tooth is missing. 
However, most of these complications are easily adjusted, and the clinical 
survival of implants and prostheses is the same for these groups compared to 
other groups of partially edentulous implant patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.1999.tb00091.x
PMID: 11359311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Pediatr AIDS HIV Infect. 1995 Oct;6(5):276-80.

Resting energy expenditure and body composition in pediatric HIV infection.

Alfaro MP(1), Siegel RM, Baker RC, Heubi JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital Research Foundation, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

One of the most striking features of HIV disease is the "wasting syndrome" or 
failure to thrive. Eighty percent of all perinatally HIV-infected children fail 
to grow normally. OBJECTIVE. Because severe malnutrition increases the morbidity 
of HIV infection and may shorten the already limited life expectancy of this 
population, we assessed resting energy needs, body composition, and nutrient 
intake in nine children perinatally HIV-infected, age 4 months to 4 years. 
DESIGN. Subjects were studied using measurements of resting energy expenditure 
(REE) by indirect calorimetry, body composition measurements by dual-energy 
X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and skinfolds, nutrient intake analysis by 24-hour 
recall, and serum protein levels. The HIV-infected children were free of 
secondary opportunistic infection at the time of the study. Subjects were 
reevaluated within the following year. RESULTS. REE correlated well (r = .856) 
with the predicted value from the World Health Organization (WHO) equation for 
basal energy expenditure. Measurement of percent body fat by skinfolds 
correlated well with DEXA percent body fat (r = .61). There was no significant 
difference between body fat assessed from skinfolds compared to published 
age-matched standards. All subjects met their recommended dietary allowance 
(RDA) for calories and protein. All subjects had adequate visceral protein 
stores for age. CONCLUSION. Perinatally infected children were not 
hypermetabolic when not secondarily infected and were able to maintain normal 
growth with the provision of adequate nutrition.

PMID: 11361392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. AIDS Patient Care. 1995 Oct;9(5):256-7.

Early treatment and survival.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11361412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. AIDS Treat News. 1995 Mar 3;(no 218):7-8.

Viatical settlement tax reform: Republicans support relief, Democrats divided.

James JS, Roehr B.

AIDS: Congress is considering the tax exempt status on money received from a 
life insurance policy before death of a person with a short life expectancy due 
to illness. Tax exempt status is being considered for both accelerated benefits 
and viatical settlement. Accelerated benefits allows for pre-payment in advance 
of death. A viatical settlement is the purchase of an insurance policy by third 
parties with the condition of their becoming the irrevocable beneficiary of the 
policy being purchased. While House Republicans on the House Ways and Means 
Committee are generally supportive of not taxing viatical settlements, Democrats 
are divided. Letters to Congress are needed, especially to House Ways and Means 
Democrats from voters in their districts and states to encourage their support 
of the reform bill (HR 8, the Senior Citizens' Equity Act) which includes tax 
relief for both accelerated benefits and viatical settlements. More information 
can be obtained by calling Gary Rose, National Association of People with AIDS, 
(202) 898-0414, or Tom McCormack, Affording Care, (202) 479-2543.

PMID: 11362330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. AIDS Treat News. 1995 Jun 2;(no 224):5-7.

When treatments go untried.

Smith D.

AIDS: Although there has been progress in HIV research and clinical care, many 
people who now have AIDS are concerned that potential treatments are often not 
pursued. First, insufficient information on making treatment decisions can place 
physicians and their patients at a dead-end. Faced with this obstacle, 
physicians and patients should consider all options available, including 
searching recent and relevant journal abstracts, identifying community news 
sources, and possibly consulting a specialist with HIV experience. Another 
obstacle is the use of the word terminal when referring to HIV infection. The 
label can be life-threatening since a choice of words implies a choice of 
action. Disinterested health care providers and overly cautious providers can 
hinder access to treatment. In addition, the artificial polarity between 
conventional and alternative treatments may prevent potential therapies from 
being used. Expense concerns and rumors caused by inconsistent and incomplete 
media coverage are other obstacles. The most productive way to serve the AIDS 
community is with long-term strategies, generated by both health professionals 
and people with HIV, that anticipate problems.

PMID: 11362511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. AIDS Treat News. 1995 Jun 16;(no 225):6.

Federal employees: insurance open season.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Federal employees can take advantage of a special one-time open season and 
enroll in life insurance up to slightly over their annual salary, with no 
physical examination or health questionnaire. Those with a life-threatening 
illness can now improve their financial condition during this open season, which 
ends July 21, 1995. This benefit lets them take advantage of a new accelerated 
benefit option, which allows those with a life expectancy of less than nine 
months to collect the above amount while they are alive. An estimated one-third 
of unmarried Federal employees do not yet have life insurance. Tom McCormack of 
Affording Care, Inc. cautions individuals and says that the best way to get 
money from a life insurance policy is through a private loan from friends, 
family, or relatives, in return for naming them beneficiaries.

PMID: 11362525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Treat Rev. 1995 May;(no 18):3-4.

What we know about anti-HIV drugs.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: AIDS patients are able to double their life expectancies after diagnosis. 
Drug treatment, an integral part in creating this improvement in life 
expectancy, consists of antiretroviral drugs, drugs that treat and prevent 
opportunistic diseases, and therapies that treat specific symptoms of AIDS, such 
as wasting or anemia. Five available drugs for treating HIV are AZT (Retrovir), 
ddI (Videx), ddC (Hivid), d4T (Zerit), and 3TC (lamivudine). Findings from 
studies for each drug in such areas as the drug's purpose, dosage level, 
effectiveness, and side effects are examined.

PMID: 11362592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. AIDS Policy Law. 1995 Oct 20;10(19):10-1.

Dissenter offers guidance in sentencing pleas.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Federal Appeals Judge William R. Wilson, Jr. of St. Louis, MI denied 
defendant [name removed] a reduced sentence based on his HIV status. In the case 
of U.S. vs. [Name removed], Judge Wilson ruled that the potential onset of AIDS 
is not sufficient grounds for granting a prisoner a reduced jail sentence. Judge 
Wilson offers advice to defense lawyers who are seeking more lenient sentences 
for their HIV-positive clients. He suggests that defense attorneys submit 
extensive documentation from medical experts that specifies the impact that 
prison life will have on the HIV-positive inmate's longevity, access to 
treatment, nutrition, and overall prognosis. Notable cases that have considered 
extraordinary physical impairment for the purpose of altering sentences include 
U.S. vs. [Name removed] from the Third Circuit Court, U.S. vs. [Name removed] 
from the Sixth Circuit Court, and U.S. vs. [Name removed] from the Seventh 
Circuit Court.

PMID: 11362840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. AIDS Treat News. 1996 Jun 21;(no 249):1-3.

New optimism on controlling HIV infection.

James JS.

AIDS: A general feeling of optimism exists among HIV/AIDS experts regarding the 
control of the disease, life expectancy, and patient prognosis. Results from 
clinical trials indicate that under ideal conditions, certain drug combinations 
could reduce evidence of viral replication to undetectable levels in most 
patients. There are anecdotal reports of substantial improvements in ongoing 
AIDS-related symptoms. The viral load in these patients is lower than that in 
long-term non-progressors, who remain disease-free for many years. The number of 
persons who are naturally (without treatment) long-term non-progressors is low. 
The major problem in HIV treatment has been that the virus develops resistance 
to all known drugs. AZT resistance develops slowly and some patients can use it 
for years without developing resistance. When viral replication is reduced to a 
low enough level, the development of drug resistance is greatly slowed, and 
possibly stopped. All treatments work best when started early, and when patients 
do not already have resistance to any of the drugs in the combination.

PMID: 11363596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Int Assoc Physicians AIDS Care. 1996 Jul;2(7):17-26.

Pharmacologic pain management in HIV/AIDS.

Breitbart W(1), McDonald MV.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

AIDS: The increased life expectancy of AIDS patients requires that effective 
pain management techniques be incorporated into their care for them to maintain 
a reasonable quality of life. There are many causes of pain in AIDS patients, 
including opportunistic infections, adverse effects of therapy, and other pain 
syndromes unrelated to the disease. Undermedication for pain in HIV/AIDS is 
documented in the literature, indicating underuse of opioid analgesics. The 
first step in remedying this problem is to develop a comprehensive measure of 
pain symptoms, then a multifaceted program utilizing a combination of 
pharmacologic, psychotherapeutic, cognitive-behavioral, anesthetic, 
neurosurgical, and rehabilitative approaches. Tabular data are provided to 
assist physicians in selecting the most appropriate analgesics, as are data on 
medications used to alleviate opioid side effects. Physical interventions, such 
as bed rest, massage, ultrasound, and transcutaneous electrical nerve 
stimulation, are briefly discussed.

PMID: 11363740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. PI Perspect. 1996 Sep;(No 19):1-2.

The XIth International Conference on AIDS...new milestones for AIDS research and 
treatment.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: The XI International Conference on AIDS affirmatively answered whether 
treatment extends the life of AIDS patients. Central treatment themes discussed 
involved the following: confirmatory data and consensus on the use of viral load 
markers, the identification of a clear target for the use of antiretroviral 
therapy, indications that viral resistance may be more manageable than 
previously thought, the extension of knowledge about the use of protease 
inhibitors from both long-term data and additional studies, the impressive new 
data on non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, the growing concern 
over the risk of multi-drug resistant HIV strains, the critical importance of 
using antiretroviral therapies exactly as prescribed, a growing awareness of the 
difficult choices posed by the current generation of protease inhibitors, and 
the first public discussion of whether HIV might someday be eradicated from 
infected people. Disappointing news from the conference included a lack of 
therapeutic advances relevant to the developing world, and no major reports on 
advances in the treatment or prophylaxis of opportunistic infections other than 
those already reported.

PMID: 11363896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. AIDS Policy Law. 1997 Apr 4;12(6):11.

Few answers available to those re-entering job market.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Speakers at the 9th National AIDS Update Conference coined the phrase the 
Lazarus Syndrome to describe AIDS patients whose health is improving following 
treatment with protease inhibitors. The improved quality of life and indefinite 
life expectancy has brought several issues to the forefront, including long-term 
planning and relationships, retirement funds, employment, and choosing between 
government disability benefits and health insurance. San Francisco Mayor Willie 
Brown will convene a summit to help people with AIDS to reenter the workplace. 
Currently, AIDS patients whose health has improved as a result of protease 
inhibitors will continue to receive Social Security benefits.

PMID: 11364178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. AIDS Alert. 1997 Mar;12(3):25-7.

Benefits of new drugs pose unexpected dilemmas.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Improvements in AIDS care have lengthened the life expectancy of many 
patients, but their situation is complicated by State and private insurance 
plans that may financially penalize them for returning to work. Hospital census 
figures for AIDS patients are down dramatically, and some hospitals have shut 
down specialty-care units. HIV care is now beginning to include well-patient 
care, including prophylaxis for opportunistic infections.

PMID: 11364187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. STEP Perspect. 1997 Winter;9(1):1-5.

Depression & HIV: assessment and treatment.

Elliott A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Madison Clinic, Seattle, WA.

AIDS: Although the advent of protease inhibitors has greatly extended the life 
expectancy of those living with HIV, they also have introduced the problems of 
emotionally dealing with a chronic illness. Depression appears to be the most 
common psychiatric disorder found among HIV-infected individuals. Preliminary 
evidence suggests that depressive symptoms may be associated with increased 
mortality. Treatment options are discussed, including psychotherapy and 
treatment with pharmaceuticals.

PMID: 11364269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Posit Aware. 1997 Sep-Oct;8(5):48-52.

Money for your life.

Larson P.

AIDS: New HIV treatments are prohibitively expensive, and some patients sell 
their life insurance policies for financial relief in times of crisis. 
Viatication is a $400 million industry, and it works by calculating a patient's 
life expectancy and paying them a percentage of their insurance value, based on 
actuarial tables. Rates can vary greatly, however, and patients are advised to 
compare company policies. There are also tax implications for this income, and 
patients should seek financial advice before selling their policy.

PMID: 11364641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. AIDS Alert. 1997 Nov;12(11):128-9.

Lifetime costs of AIDS drops below $100,000.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: An economic model developed by Glaxo Wellcome shows that treatment costs 
for AIDS will drop below $100,000. The model uses viral load and CD4 counts to 
measure effectiveness of new therapies, and it predicts that lifetime 
combination therapy will cost less than when monotherapy was used. The model, 
presented at the 37th Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and 
Chemotherapy (ICAAC) in Toronto, examined three scenarios: no treatment, 
effective treatment for one year, and effective treatment for two years. A 
number of variables are factored into the model, including the development of 
resistance and opportunistic infections. The model has been used to help States 
set their budgets for AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAPs), and gave the ADAP 
Working Group reliable cost projections when asking Congress for additional 
funding. A table of average annualized costs for the most common opportunistic 
infections is included.

PMID: 11364771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Can HIV AIDS Policy Law Newsl. 1997-1998 Winter;3-4(4-1):13-6.

Triple-drug therapy and return to work: results of a Quebec survey.

Jalbert Y(1).

Author information:
(1)AIDS in the Workplace, Montreal, Canada.

AIDS: Recent Quebec and Canadian statistics show the death rate declining among 
people living with HIV/AIDS. Triple-drug therapy has been shown to increase life 
expectancy and overall health. In the United States, a study of 55 people in 
Chicago living with HIV/AIDS found that 82 percent of them had considered 
returning to work. Another U.S. study showed that half the respondents had 
disclosed their sexual orientation to their employer. A survey questionnaire was 
prepared and distributed throughout the AIDS service organizations (ASOs) 
network and in two gay publications to see if the Canadian population has 
similar figures. The results showed that respondents under 45 years of age were 
more likely to want to return to work. Other conclusions of the study were that 
people with HIV/AIDS are not necessarily secure in their jobs, that the state of 
their health is their major area of concern, and that most people with HIV/AIDS 
do not want to return to their former jobs because of stress, discrimination, or 
their employer's attitude. The obligation for employers to make reasonable 
accommodations is a difficult concept for the employers to understand, and 
patients have concerns with explaining long or frequent absences from the 
workforce on their resumes. In 1998, the questionnaire will be distributed 
throughout the health and social services network. Ordering information is 
included.

PMID: 11365280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. AIDS Policy Law. 1998 Jul 24;13(13):13-5.

World AIDS Conference.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Several findings from the 1998 World AIDS Conference are presented 
regarding current HIV research. One finding is that early access to drugs for 
HIV infection is cost-effective, increases life span, and improves quality of 
life. Research is also being conducted at Massachusetts General Hospital to 
investigate whether a patient's immune system can ward off further infection if 
antiretroviral therapy is ceased. Other findings conclude that expanding 
Medicaid coverage may reduce the number of AIDS-related deaths, that there are 
fewer treatment options for those who are poor, and that women may need to begin 
HIV treatment earlier than men. Also, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) has found that the prevention of HIV infections is a 
cost-effective way to control the spread of the epidemic. Post-exposure 
practices and adherence are also discussed. The first case of an HIV strain that 
is resilient to 6 of the 11 approved drugs was presented.

PMID: 11365578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. AIDS Alert. 1998 Aug;13(8 Suppl):4.

Weighing options with yardstick called 'DALY'.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Developing countries need to measure which medical interventions are 
cost-effective, and some are using a new measurement called Disability Adjusted 
Life Years (DALY). DALY incorporates data about how productive people are at 
various stages of their life and probabilities related to their life expectancy. 
The process allows comparisons between different health interventions, and it is 
growing in credibility. Decisions about which interventions are affordable vary 
greatly between countries, and this technique may help countries spend their 
limited health care resources more efficiently.

PMID: 11365656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. AIDS Policy Law. 1998 Sep 4;13(16):4.

15-year sentence not improper despite limited life span.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: [Name removed], convicted of armed robbery and sentenced to a 15-year 
prison term, has asked the Mississippi Supreme Court to set aside his sentence 
on the grounds that his HIV-positive status limits his life expectancy. He 
stated that the prison term amounts to an illegal life sentence, because the 
average life expectancy of an HIV-positive person is 10 years. The court refuted 
this claim and upheld the 15-year term, stating that under State statute, the 
term is a reasonable and lawful sentence.

PMID: 11365741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. AIDS Alert. 1998 Dec;13(12):suppl 2-4.

Are planners ignoring AIDS epidemic?

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Some studies estimate that 40 million children across several countries 
will lose one or both parents to AIDS by 2010. However, neither developing 
countries nor donor agencies are seriously looking at how AIDS will affect the 
future. Anthony Barnett and colleagues, of the School of Development Studies at 
the University of East Anglia in the U.K., have held workshops for nearly a 
decade that are devoted to planning for the AIDS epidemic. Many of the 
recommendations coming from the workshops are simple, such as hiring extra 
workers in case vital workers are incapacitated by AIDS-related illnesses. 
Problems that may stem from the AIDS epidemic include a shortage of places to 
house orphaned children and a low supply of mechanics and skilled tradespeople 
to run plants in areas where the working population is at high risk.

PMID: 11366067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. AIDS Alert. 1998 Dec;13(12):suppl 4.

U.N.: African population hit hard by AIDS.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: The latest United Nations report on population indicates that several 
African countries will have considerable declines in population and life 
expectancy over the next 10 to 15 years because of the AIDS pandemic. By then, 
life expectancy may only be 47 years, a 16-year decline from current life 
expectancy. However, the population will probably remain at the same level 
because of high fertility rates. The report also states that 34 sub-Saharan 
countries have 86 percent of the world's HIV-infected population. In addition, 
91percent of all AIDS-related deaths have occurred in these countries.

PMID: 11366068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. AIDS Clin Care. 1999 Apr;11(4):25-6, 33-4.

The use of testosterone in the AIDS wasting syndrome.

Corcoran C(1), Grinspoon S.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital.

AIDS: AIDS wasting syndrome (AWS) is a complication of advanced HIV disease 
characterized by loss of lean body mass. The loss of endogenous anabolic 
hormones, such as testosterone, is thought to contribute to muscle loss. Studies 
have shown that more than half of male AIDS patients have low testosterone 
levels, and increased AIDS severity is correlated with increases in the presence 
of hypogonadism. Hypogonadism among HIV-infected patients is marked by decreased 
muscle mass and functional capacity, fatigue, and reduced quality of life. 
Recently, a 6-month randomized, placebo-controlled trial was conducted on the 
effects of administering testosterone intramuscularly to hypogonadal 
HIV-infected men. Patients receiving testosterone experienced significant 
increases in muscle and lean body mass as well as improved quality of life, 
appearance, and well being. A 6-month open label extension confirmed a sustained 
anabolic effect. As an alternative to intramuscular injection, transdermal 
patches are now available, offering similar benefits and more stable 
testosterone levels. Transdermal testosterone studies have been initiated in 
women as well, with promising results. Synthetic testosterone analogues, such as 
Oxandrolone and nandrolone decanoate, also have been studied in AWS patients. 
Trials of both resulted in significant weight gain at certain doses, but also 
demonstrated a significant risk of liver damage. Other anabolic agents are also 
under investigation.

PMID: 11366208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. AIDS Policy Law. 1999 Feb 5;14(2):10-1.

HIV status is relevant in calculating damages in injury suit.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: The Pennsylvania Supreme Court let stand a decision that determined HIV 
infection to be a relevant factor in calculating future damages in a personal 
injury claim. The ruling was made in a personal injury damage suit against 
Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) after [name removed] 
was injured in a subway stairway. After learning that [name removed] was taking 
AZT, the transit authority wanted the jury to consider his shortened life 
expectancy due to his HIV status when assessing damages. Introducing the 
plaintiff's HIV status was controversial because of the State's HIV 
confidentiality law.

PMID: 11366261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. BETA. 1999 Apr;12(2):22-7.

Current challenges to HIV research.

Szekeres G(1), Rappoport C, Abrams D.

Author information:
(1)UCSF Positive Health Program.

AIDS: The HIV epidemic in the United States has changed dramatically in two 
decades, and shifting demographics have shown increasing infection rates among 
women, people of color, heterosexuals, and youth. Advertising campaigns for 
anti-HIV drugs have contributed to changing people's perceptions of the disease. 
Treatment advances have not only greatly extended the life expectancy of those 
infected, but also have driven down rates of opportunistic infections and 
enhanced the quality of life of people with HIV. Earlier in the epidemic, when 
HIV drugs were scarce, people often participated in the drug trials; that level 
has dropped with the availability of more advanced care. Topics discussed 
include limitations of highly active antiretroviral therapy, and changes in 
research climate. In addition, the process of clinical trials is presented, 
along with a description of each stage of the process, how the trials are 
designed and monitored, and what participants can expect.

PMID: 11366691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. AIDS Policy Law. 1999 Aug 6;14(14):12.

Lawsuit settled.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: A Philadelphia trial court reeled that HIV-infection is relevant to the 
calculation of future damages in a personal injury claim. The plaintiff, who 
fell on a stairway owned by the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation 
Authority (SEPTA), settled for an undisclosed sum. SEPTA appealed the initial 
award, arguing that information about the plaintiff's HIV status should have 
been disclosed to the jury, to consider the plaintiff's life expectancy. The 
State Supreme Court let stand on appellate ruling, agreeing with SEPTA.

PMID: 11367004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. AIDS Policy Law. 1999 Oct 1;14(18):3.

Court rules against failed viatical firm in investor suit.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: A Federal appeals court has revived a claim against Dignity Partners Inc., 
a viatical business, and offshoot of a financial-services firm. Dignity Partners 
operated by buying the life insurance policies of terminally ill people. The 
company was charged with making false and misleading statements in its 
prospectus for an initial public stock offering. Five months later, the company 
announced that it would not accept new customers with AIDS, a group which 
represented 95 percent of its accounts at that time. The company had information 
from researchers and clinicians that the introduction of protease inhibitors 
would greatly increase life expectancy for its customers and would reduce 
