company profits. This information was not generally available to potential 
investors. The suit against the company alleges violations of the Securities Act 
of 1933 and the Exchange Act of 1934, both which govern stock trading.

PMID: 11367028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Newsline People AIDS Coalit N Y. 1999 Jan:17.

Global facts.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: Facts about the global spread of HIV and AIDS are presented in a list. An 
estimated 30 million people are HIV-infected and 12 million have died from AIDS. 
The epidemic currently has the highest concentrations in Africa, and India is 
expected to surpass this concentration within a few years. While HIV rates are 
decreasing in Thailand and Western Europe, they are increasing in the former 
Soviet Union. In the United States, AIDS deaths are decreasing, but the number 
of people living with HIV is not.

PMID: 11367180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. AIDS Policy Law. 1999 Oct 15;14(19):10.

Discovery of HIV infection is no basis to revise sentence.

[No authors listed]

AIDS: [Name removed] was convicted of forgery and other charges and sentenced to 
15 years in prison. [Name removed] found out he was HIV-positive after entering 
prison and appealed his sentence, claiming that his infection should entitle him 
to a shorter sentence. The 3rd District Court of Appeals in Wisconsin held that 
his newly discovered HIV infection was not relevant to the sentencing. The 
ruling said his health and life expectancy were not substantial factors in 
setting the original sentence and the original sentence would not be revised.

PMID: 11367270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Drugs. 2001;61(5):593-611. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200161050-00005.

Achieving optimal outcomes in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.

Hamblin TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, England. 
terjoha@aol.com

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a disease of late middle age and older. 
The majority of patients are diagnosed because of a lymphocytosis of at least 5 
x 10(9)/L on an incidental blood count. It needs to be distinguished from mantle 
cell lymphoma and splenic marginal zone lymphoma by lymphocyte markers. The 
immunophenotype of CLL is sparse surface immunoglobulin, CD5+, CD19+, CD23+, 
CD79b-, and FMC7-. The disease is staged according to the presence of 
lymphadenopathy and/or splenomegaly and the features of bone marrow suppression. 
Most patients have an early stage of disease when diagnosed and perhaps 50% will 
never progress. This group of patients have a normal life expectancy and do not 
require treatment beyond reassurance. Progression involves an increasing white 
cell count, enlarging lymph nodes and spleen, anaemia and thrombocytopenia. 
Complications of progression include autoimmune haemolytic anaemia and 
thrombocytopenia, immunodeficiency, and the development of a more aggressive 
lymphoma. A range of prognostic factors is available to predict progression, but 
most haematologists rely on close observation of the patient. Intermittent 
chlorambucil remains the first choice treatment for the majority of patients. 
Combination chemotherapy offers no advantage. Intravenous fludarabine is 
probably more effective than chlorambucil, but no trial has yet shown a survival 
advantage for using it first rather than as a salvage treatment in patients not 
responding to chlorambucil. It is at least 40 times as expensive as 
chlorambucil. Cladribine may be as effective as fludarabine, although it has 
been used less and is even more expensive. Patients who relapse after 
chlorambucil should be offered retreatment with the same agent and if refractory 
should be switched to fludarabine, which may also be offered for retreatment on 
relapse. For patients refractory to both drugs, a variety of options are 
available. High dose corticosteroids, high dose chlorambucil, CHOP 
(cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, vincristine and doxorubicin), anti-CD52, 
anti-CD20 and a range of experimental drugs which are being evaluated in 
clinical trials. Younger patients should be offered the chance of treatment with 
curative intent, preferably in the context of a clinical trial. Autologous stem 
cell transplantation after achieving a remission with fludarabine has relative 
safety and may produce molecular complete remissions. Only time will tell 
whether some of these patients are cured but it seems unlikely. Standard 
allogeneic bone marrow transplant is probably too hazardous for most patients, 
but non-myeloablative regimens hold out the hope of invoking a 
graft-versus-leukaemia effect without a high tumour-related mortality. Trials of 
immunotherapy are exciting options for a few patients in specialised centres.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200161050-00005
PMID: 11368285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Free Radic Biol Med. 2001 May 15;30(10):1130-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(01)00511-1.

Spontaneous loss-of-function mutations of the 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase gene 
in mice and exploration of the possible implication of the gene in senescence.

Mori M(1), Toyokuni S, Kondo S, Kasai H, Naiki H, Toichi E, Hosokawa M, Higuchi 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging Angiology, Research Center on Aging and Adaptation, 
Shinshu University School of Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan. 
masamori@sch.md.shinshu-u.ac.jp

8-Oxoguanine is one of the major premutagenic oxidative base legions in vivo and 
is suspected to play a crucial role in various pathophysiological processes, 
such as cancer and aging. Mammalian 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) is 
thought to play a major role in the removal of 8-oxoguanine adducts in vivo. We 
have identified several inbred mouse strains with a spontaneous mutation, 
OGG1-R336H or double mutations, OGG1-R304W/R336H. R304W mutation caused a 
complete loss of OGG1 activity, while the R336H mutation led to disruption of 
nuclear localization of the enzyme although the activity remained normal. Among 
the double mutants was SAMP1, which exhibits accelerated senescence and short 
lifespan. We assessed the possible implication of the mutant OGG1 and 
8-oxoguanine in aging utilizing SAMP1 mice. SAMP1 retained 1.5- to 1.9-fold 
increase in 8-oxoguanine level of hepatic nuclear DNA as compared with normal 
mice, until at least 12 months of age. A genetic association study, however, 
indicated that the mutant Ogg1 gene per se is not responsible for the 
accelerated senescence and short lifespan of SAMP1. Mutant OGG1 may be 
associated with pathologic conditions in other mouse strains.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(01)00511-1
PMID: 11369503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2001;16 Suppl 1:74-7. doi:
10.1093/ndt/16.suppl_1.74.

Clinical characteristics of ischaemic renal disease.

Alcázar JM(1), Marín R, Gómez-Campderá F, Orte L, Rodríguez-Jornet A, Mora-Macía 
J; Spanish Group of Ischaemic Nephrology (GEDENI).

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Service, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Longer life expectancy has favoured the ever more frequent 
development of ischaemic nephropathy characterized by the presence of 
atherosclerotic stenosis in both renal arteries.
METHODS: This is an observational and multicentre study carried out during a 
14-month follow-up period in 20 hospitals in SPAIN: Inclusion criteria were the 
presence of bilateral renal artery stenosis > 50% and a creatinine level of > or 
= 1.5 mg/dl. The diagnosis should be made by arterial digital angiography in 
every case.
RESULTS: A total of 156 patients were included. Their mean age was 68.7+/-9 
years, and 78.5% were male. The mean creatinine value of the group was 2.9+/-1.7 
mg/dl. Arterial hypertension (BP) with a duration of 12+/-9 years was present in 
97.4% of the cases, smoking habits in 69.8%, hypercholesterolaemia (> or = 240 
mg/dl) in 62.9% and diabetes in 32.1%. Only 8% of the patients had a body mass 
index > or = 30 kg/m(2). Associated cardiovascular disease was very frequent: 
peripheral arteriopathy in 67.5% of the cases, ischaemic cardiopathy in 44.8%, 
cardiac insufficiency in 32.6% and stroke in 27.3%. In 94.4% of the patients, 
the lesion affected both renal arteries, with complete obstruction in 23% of the 
cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnostic suspicion of ischaemic nephropathy can be established in 
non-obese elderly males with chronic renal insufficiency, long-term BP evolution 
and cardiovascular disease at other levels, above all, peripheral arteriopathy.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/16.suppl_1.74
PMID: 11369827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. World J Surg. 2001 May;25(5):610-6. doi: 10.1007/s002680020170.

Predictive genetic screening and clinical findings in multiple endocrine 
neoplasia type I families.

Kopp I(1), Bartsch D, Wild A, Schilling T, Nies C, Bergenfelz A, Rieder H, Simon 
B, Rothmund M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Philipps-University Marburg, 35033 Marburg, Germany. 
kopp@mailer.uni-marburg.de

Germline mutations of the MEN1 gene have been identified as the causative 
genetic defect of multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN-I), an autosomal 
dominantly inherited condition. To establish the basis for predictive family 
screening we evaluated the spectrum of MEN1 gene mutations in MEN-I patients 
treated at our institution. Relatives at risk were subjected to predictive 
genetic screening after genetic counseling. Gene carriers were subjected to 
extensive clinical screening for MEN-I, including biochemical tests for basal 
hormone concentrations in blood and urine, a standardized meal stimulation test 
and imaging procedures (ultrasonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance 
imaging). Among index patients of 15 independent MEN-I kindreds, 14 heterozygous 
MEN1 germline mutations were identified by single-strand conformational variant 
analysis (SSCV) and direct DNA sequence analysis. Of 51 individuals at risk, 26 
predictively tested relatives with the wild-type MEN1 gene could be excluded 
from further screening procedures because they had not inherited the disease. In 
all previously presumed unaffected relatives with the mutant gene, our extensive 
clinical screening program revealed at least one manifestation of MEN-I. 
Furthermore, 22 additional diagnoses could be established in identified MEN-I 
patients. We show that mutation analysis enables predictive genetic screening 
for MEN-I families, providing a valuable tool for genetic counseling and 
clinical management. An extensive clinical screening program focusing on 
genetically proven individuals at risk allows detection of MEN-I manifestations 
at an early, asymptomatic stage of the disease. Controlled, prospective studies 
are now required to prove whether timely appropriate treatment on the basis of 
predictive screening might help improve disease-related quality of life and 
prolong life expectancy in MEN-I kindreds.

DOI: 10.1007/s002680020170
PMID: 11369988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. East Mediterr Health J. 2000 Jan;6(1):159-67.

Bahraini women's health: a background paper.

Hamadeh RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, College of Medicine and Medical 
Sciences, Arabian Gulf University, Manama, Bahrain.

This study assessed the trends in the health status of Bahraini women from the 
early 1980s to the mid 1990s through review of census data and health data. 
Sociodemographic characteristics, reproductive health, mortality, morbidity and 
lifestyle patterns were studied. The implications of the data and measures 
needed to be taken to further improve the health and health care services of 
women are discussed.

PMID: 11370329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Ann Med. 2001 Apr;33(3):206-12. doi: 10.3109/07853890109002079.

Increased plasminogen activator inhibitor activity and diabetes predict 
subsequent coronary events in patients with angina pectoris.

Takazoe K(1), Ogawa H, Yasue H, Sakamoto T, Soejima H, Miyao Y, Kawano H, 
Moriyama Y, Misumi K, Suefuji H, Kugiyama K, Yoshimura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Kumamoto University School of 
Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) is a marker of recurrence of 
myocardial infarction. Diabetes mellitus is also an important risk factor of 
coronary artery disease, including myocardial infarction and angina pectoris.
AIM: We examined baseline plasma PAI activity levels, clinical variables, and 
angiographic findings and assessed them as prospective values for subsequent 
coronary events, such as sudden death, nonfatal myocardial infarction and 
coronary revascularization by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or 
coronary artery bypass surgery during the follow-up period.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective study for 4 years of 249 consecutive 
patients admitted with angina pectoris. Blood samples for PAI were drawn at 
discharge.
RESULTS: In the multivariate Cox proportional hazard model, PAI activity and 
diabetes mellitus were significant and independent risk factors (the risk 
increased by 10% in those with a higher PAI concentration and by 70% in diabetic 
patients). Event-free survival was reduced by higher PAI activity (> or = 8.4 
IU/mL) and the presence of diabetes. The patients with higher PAI activity and 
diabetes had a 4.2-fold risk in comparison with the patients with lower PAI 
activity and no diabetes. However, patients with lower PAI activity were less 
likely to have coronary events even when they had diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher PAI activity and diabetes predict subsequent coronary events 
in patients with angina pectoris. Diabetes has less prognostic value for 
subsequent coronary events in patients with lower PAI activity.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890109002079
PMID: 11370775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Bull Cancer. 2001 Apr;88(4):369-87.

[Standards, options and recommendations for the management of locally advanced 
non small cell lung carcinoma].

[Article in French]

Bardet E(1), Moro-Sibilot D, Le Chevalier T, Massard G, Douillard JY, Theobald 
S, Astoul P, Baldeyrou P, Bazelly B, Bréchot J, Breton JL, Grivaux P, Jacoulet 
P, Khalil A, Lemarie E, Martinet Y, Milleron B, Paesmans M, Pujol JL, Quoix AE, 
Ranfaing E, Rivière A, Sancho-Garnier H, Souquet PJ, Spaeth D, Stcebner-Delbarre 
A, Thiberville L, Touboul E, Vaylet F, Vergnon JM, Westeel V, Depierre A, 
Lagrange JL.

Author information:
(1)Standards, Options, Recommandations, 101, rue de Tolbiac, 75654 Paris Cedex 
13.

CONTEXT: The "Standards, Options and Recommendations" (SOR) project, started in 
1993, is a collaboration between the Federation of the French Cancer Centres 
(FNCLCC), the 20 French Cancer Centres and specialists from French Public 
Universities, General Hospitals and Private Clinics. The main objective is the 
development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health 
care and outcome for cancer patients. The methodology is based on literature 
review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts, with 
feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery.
OBJECTIVES: To develop clinical practice guidelines according to the definitions 
of the Standards, Options and Recommendations project for the management of 
locally advanced non small cell lung carcinoma.
METHODS: Data were identified by searching Medline and the personal reference 
lists of members of the expert groups. Once the guidelines were defined, the 
document was submitted for review to independent reviewers and to the medical 
committees of the 20 French Cancer Centres.
RESULTS: The main recommendations are: 1) The management of the locally advanced 
non small cell lung carcinoma has two main goals: firstly to obtain local 
control of the disease (or to at least delay local progression in order to 
improve the survival or relapse free survival), and secondly to prevent the 
development of metastases. 2) There is a consensus that locally advanced non 
small cell lung carcinoma should be irradiated. External beam radiotherapy 
should be of optimal quality and delivered at a minimal dose of 60 Gy by 
standard fractionation. For patients with a poor life expectancy, this can be 
delivered as a split-course or hypofractionated scheme. 3) Treatment for 
patients with a performance status of 0-1 should consist of short duration 
induction chemotherapy (with a least two drugs one of which must be cisplatin), 
combined sequentially with conventional radiotherapy. 4) Surgery is 
contraindicated in extensive N3 disease. Combined radio-chemotherapy (adjuvant 
or neoadjuvant) is not indicated outside clinical trials. Surgery is justified 
in stage N2 disease as good local control can be achieved. T4-N0 disease should 
be treated surgically with curative intent.

PMID: 11371371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2001 May;163(6):1389-94. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.163.6.2005123.

Quality-adjusted survival in the first year after the acute respiratory distress 
syndrome.

Angus DC(1), Musthafa AA, Clermont G, Griffin MF, Linde-Zwirble WT, Dremsizov 
TT, Pinsky MR.

Author information:
(1)Critical Care Medicine Division, Department of Anesthesiology and Critical 
Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, USA. angusdc@anes.upmc.edu

There is little information on long-term outcome after acute respiratory 
distress syndrome (ARDS). We measured quality-adjusted survival in the first 
year after ARDS in a prospective cohort (n = 200). All patients met traditional 
criteria for ARDS. Patients with sepsis and acute nonpulmonary organ dysfunction 
at presentation were excluded. The cohort was healthy before onset of ARDS as 
evidenced by high functional status (mean Karnofsky Performance Status index: 
82.2/100 where >/= 80 = able to perform normal activities independently) and 
minimal comorbid illness (mean Charlson-Deyo comorbidity score: 0.32/17 where 0 
= absence of chronic illness). We determined quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
using the Quality of Well-being (QWB) scale (0 to 1 scale where 1 = optimal 
well-being), measured at 6 and 12 mo. Survival was 69.5 +/- 5.0% at 1 month, 
fell to 55.7 +/- 3.7% at 6 mo, and did not change at 12 mo, yielding a survival 
of 59 life-years in the first year per 100 patients with ARDS. QWB was low at 6 
and 12 mo (0.59 +/- 0.015 and 0.60 +/- 0.015), yielding a quality-adjusted 
survival of 36 QALYs per 100 patients (sensitivity range: 21 to 46 QALYs). We 
conclude that ARDS developing in previously healthy patients is associated with 
poor quality-adjusted survival. These data are important for cost-effectiveness 
analyses and long-term care.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.163.6.2005123
PMID: 11371406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jun;85(6):643-7. doi: 10.1136/bjo.85.6.643.

Cataract in leprosy patients: cataract surgical coverage, barriers to acceptance 
of surgery, and outcome of surgery in a population based survey in Korea.

Courtright P(1), Lewallen S, Tungpakorn N, Cho BH, Lim YK, Lee HJ, Kim SH.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Epidemiologic and International Ophthalmology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. 
pcourtright@providencehealth.bc.ca

Comment in
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2001 Jun;85(6):635-7.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Cataract is the leading cause of blindness in leprosy patients. 
There is no population based information on the cataract surgical coverage, 
barriers to use of surgical services, and outcome of surgery in these patients. 
We sought to determine these measures of cataract programme effectiveness in a 
cured leprosy population in South Korea.
METHODS: The population consisted of residents of six leprosy resettlement 
villages in central South Korea. All residents were invited to participate in a 
study of eye disease and interviewed regarding use of surgical services and 
reasons for not using these services.
RESULTS: The cataract surgical coverage in this population was 55.4% when <6/18 
was used as the cut off and increased to 78.3% when the cut off was <6/60. 
Barriers reported by patients included being told by the doctor that the 
cataract was not mature and a perception by the patient that there was no need 
for surgery. Among patients who had aphakic surgery, 71% were still blind in the 
operative eye while among patients who had pseudophakic surgery, 14% were still 
blind (presenting vision). Blindness in pseudophakic patients could be reduced 
to 3% with spectacle correction.
CONCLUSION: Cataract prevalence in leprosy patients will increase as life 
expectancy continues to increase. Leprosy control programmes will need to 
develop activities aimed at reducing the burden of cataract. Recommendations 
include establishing collaborative agreements with ophthalmological services to 
provide high quality IOL surgery to these patients, training of health staff to 
identify and refer patients in need of surgery, monitoring the uptake of 
cataract surgery among patients needing services, and monitoring the outcome of 
surgery to improve refractive outcome.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.85.6.643
PMCID: PMC1723998
PMID: 11371479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Jun 5;98(12):6736-41. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.111158898. Epub 2001 May 22.

Lifespan extension and delayed immune and collagen aging in mutant mice with 
defects in growth hormone production.

Flurkey K(1), Papaconstantinou J, Miller RA, Harrison DE.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA.

Single-gene mutations that extend lifespan provide valuable tools for the 
exploration of the molecular basis for age-related changes in cell and tissue 
function and for the pathophysiology of age-dependent diseases. We show here 
that mice homozygous for loss-of-function mutations at the Pit1 (Snell dwarf) 
locus show a >40% increase in mean and maximal longevity on the relatively 
long-lived (C3H/HeJ x DW/J)F(1) background. Mutant dw(J)/dw animals show delays 
in age-dependent collagen cross-linking and in six age-sensitive indices of 
immune system status. These findings thus demonstrate that a single gene can 
control maximum lifespan and the timing of both cellular and extracellular 
senescence in a mammal. Pituitary transplantation into dwarf mice does not 
reverse the lifespan effect, suggesting that the effect is not due to lowered 
prolactin levels. In contrast, homozygosity for the Ghrhr(lit) mutation, which 
like the Pit1(dw) mutation lowers plasma growth hormone levels, does lead to a 
significant increase in longevity. Male Snell dwarf mice, unlike calorically 
restricted mice, become obese and exhibit proportionately high leptin levels in 
old age, showing that their exceptional longevity is not simply due to 
alterations in adiposity per se. Further studies of the Pit1(dw) mutant, and the 
closely related, long-lived Prop-1(df) (Ames dwarf) mutant, should provide new 
insights into the hormonal regulation of senescence, longevity, and late life 
disease.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.111158898
PMCID: PMC34422
PMID: 11371619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Urol. 2001 Jun;165(6 Pt 1):2055-8.

Experimentally prefabricated bladder.

Aktuğ T(1), Ozdemir T, Ağartan C, Ozer E, Olguner M, Akgür FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Dokuz Eylül University, School of Medicine, 
Inciralti, Izmir, Turkey.

PURPOSE: Long life expectancy after augmentation cystoplasty increases the 
importance of late complications of augmentation cystoplasty. Many complications 
are related to the mucosa of the intestinal flap used for augmentation 
cystoplasty. We compared a new prefabricated enterocystoplasty flap with the 
classic techniques of enterocystoplasty using seromuscular flaps. For 
prefabrication the seromuscular flap was partially grafted with uro-epithelium 
before augmentation cystoplasty.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study consisted of 4 groups. In the first 2 groups 
seromuscular flaps were used for augmentation cystoplasty with different sides 
of the flap inside the bladder. The muscular and serosal surfaces were 
prefabricated in groups 3 and 4, respectively. Prefabricated seromuscular flaps 
were used for augmentation cystoplasty after remaining in situ for 2 weeks.
RESULTS: While mean augmented bladder capacity in groups 1, 2 and 4 was 18 to 20 
ml. after 8 weeks, capacity in the prefabricated seromuscular enterocystoplasty 
group was 50 ml. Histopathological examination showed severe fibrosis in all 
except the prefabricated seromuscular enterocystoplasty group.
CONCLUSIONS: Prefabrication allows the avoidance of the complications caused by 
intestinal mucosa in the reservoir and results in good capacity when the raw 
surface of the seromuscular flap is partially grafted with uro-epithelium before 
use.

PMID: 11371927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Odontostomatol Trop. 2000 Dec;23(92):13-7.

[Composite materials, carbon fiber-resin: a solution to the problem of aging of 
denture bases of removable prostheses].

[Article in French]

N'Dindin AC(1), N'Dindin GB, Amani SR, Morenas M.

Author information:
(1)Section de prothèse adjointe-UFR d'odonto-Stomatologie-Université de Cocody, 
Côte d'Ivoire.

The growing age of resin prosthesis is a worry for dentists, and chiefly for 
patients. Their reinforcement with carbon fiber appears to be a solution that 
frankly improves their life expectancy.

PMID: 11372136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Health Care Anal. 2001;9(1):1-13. doi: 10.1023/A:1011385310274.

The goals of medicine. Towards a unified theory.

Brülde B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 
1A1. bengt.brylde@phil.gu.se

Comment in
    Health Care Anal. 2001;9(1):15-23.

The purpose of this article is to present a normative theory of the goals of 
medicine (a theory that tells us in what respects medicine should benefit the 
patient) that is both comprehensive and unified. A review of the relevant 
literature suggests that there are at least seven plausible goals that are 
irreducible to each other, namely to promote functioning, to maintain or restore 
normal structure and function, to promote quality of life, to save and prolong 
life, to help the patient to cope well with her condition, to improve the 
external conditions under which people live, and to promote the growth and 
development of children. However, it seems that all these goals need to be 
qualified in different ways, e.g. it does not seem reasonable to improve 
physiological function or functional ability unless this is expected to have 
positive effects on quality of life and/or length of life, or to improve the 
quality of life in any respect, or by any means. These qualifications all 
suggest that the proposed goals are, as goals, conceptually, and not just 
causally, related to one another, and that they should therefore not be regarded 
in isolation. Instead, we should think of the medical enterprise as having a 
multidimensional goal structure rather than a single goal. In order to depict 
clearly how the different goals are related to one another, a multidimensional 
model is constructed.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1011385310274
PMID: 11372571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Health Care Anal. 2001;9(1):65-76. doi: 10.1023/A:1011387524579.

Utilitarianism and the measurement and aggregation of quality--adjusted life 
years.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group and Department of Economics, University of 
Sheffield, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA. P.Dolan@sheffield.ac.uk

It is widely accepted that one of the main objectives of government expenditure 
on health care is to generate health. Since health is a function of both length 
of life and quality of life, the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) has been 
developed in an attempt to combine the value of these attributes into a single 
index number. The QALY approach--and particularly the decision rule that health 
care resources should be allocated so as to maximise the number of QALYs 
generated--has often been equated with the utilitarian philosophy of maximising 
'the greatest happiness of the greatest number'. This paper considers the extent 
to which the measurement and aggregation of QALYs really is utilitarian by 
developing a new taxonomy in order to classify utilitarianism and the different 
aspects of the QALY approach. It is shown that the measurement of QALYs is 
consistent with a number of different moral positions and that QALYs do not have 
to be aggregated according to the maximisation rule. Therefore it is 
inappropriate to necessarily equate QALYs with utilitarianism. It is shown that 
much turns on what in principle the QALY represents and how in practice it can 
be operationalised. The paper highlights the category confusion that is often 
present here and suggests possible avenues for future theoretical and empirical 
research.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1011387524579
PMID: 11372576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Health Econ. 2001 May;20(3):423-40. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00073-x.

Modeling the effects of health on economic growth.

Bhargava A(1), Jamison DT, Lau LJ, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77204-5882, USA. 
bhargava@uh.edu

This paper investigates the effects of health indicators such as adult survival 
rates (ASR) on GDP growth rates at 5-year intervals in several countries. Panel 
data were analyzed on GDP series based on purchasing power adjustments and on 
exchange rates. First, we developed a framework for modeling the 
inter-relationships between GDP growth rates and explanatory variables by 
re-examining the life expectancy-income relationship. Second, models for growth 
rates were estimated taking into account the interaction between ASR and lagged 
GDP level; issues of endogeneity and reverse causality were addressed. Lastly, 
we computed confidence intervals for the effect of ASR on growth rate and 
applied a test for parameter stability. The results showed positive effects of 
ASR on GDP growth rates in low-income countries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00073-x
PMID: 11373839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2001 May;80(5):736-53.

Self-regulation of goal setting: turning free fantasies about the future into 
binding goals.

Oettingen G(1), Pak H, Schnetter K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, New York University, New York 10003, USA. 
bettingen@psych.nyu.edu

Fantasy realization theory states that when people contrast their fantasies 
about a desired future with reflections on present reality, a necessity to act 
is induced that leads to the activation and use of relevant expectations. Strong 
goal commitment arises in light of favorable expectations, and weak goal 
commitment arises in light of unfavorable expectations. To the contrary, when 
people only fantasize about a desired future or only reflect on present reality, 
expectancy-independent moderate goal commitment emerges. Four experiments 
pertaining to various life domains supported these hypotheses. Strength of goal 
commitment was assessed in cognitive (e.g., making plans), affective (e.g., felt 
attachment), and behavioral terms (e.g., effort expenditure, quality of 
performance). Implications for theories on goal setting and goal striving are 
discussed.

PMID: 11374746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. World J Surg. 2001 Jun;25(6):685-8. doi: 10.1007/s00268-001-0013-8.

Natural history of liver metastasis of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine 
tumors: place for chemoembolization.

Proye C(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Générale et Endocrinienne, Hôpital Claude Huriez, Rue 
Michel Polonovski, 59037 Lille, France. pattou@univ-lille2.fr

Hepatic metastases of gastroenteropancreatic tumors are observed in at least 10% 
of cases at presentation and in 85% of cases after 20 years of follow-up. They 
are slow-growing; and there is a 5-year life expectancy that varies between 13% 
and 60% depending of the degree of differentiation, with occasional survival of 
more than 20 years. Curative liver resection is the best treatment, with a 
4-year survival rate of 73%, but this is possible in only 10% of cases. 
Chemoembolization is indicated for nonresectable multiple bilobar metastases: 
87% of patients respond, half with tumor reduction and the other half with 
diminution of the symptoms of hypersecretion. The mean survival is 2 years; 
complete remission of more than 2 years is exceptional. The technique can be 
repeated but is not without risks, with a possible postembolization syndrome 
lasting up to 10 days and subsiding spontaneously, without indication for 
operation. Therefore one lobe only should be embolized at a session. It is not 
impossible that chemoembolization increases the occurrence of lung metastases. 
It is only a palliative method but with great functional benefit for patients 
with hypersecreting tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-001-0013-8
PMID: 11376397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. World J Surg. 2001 Jun;25(6):689-92. doi: 10.1007/s00268-001-0014-7.

Hepatic metastases of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: safe hepatic 
surgery.

Jaeck D(1), Oussoultzoglou E, Bachellier P, Lemarque P, Weber JC, Nakano H, Wolf 
P.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Chirurgie Viscérale et de Transplantation, Hôpital de Hautepierre, 
1 Avenue Molière, 67098 Strasbourg Cedex, France. 
daniel.jaeck@chru-strasbourg.fr

Liver metastases of neuroendocrine tumors are usually slow-growing, and 
cytoreductive hepatectomy can help reduce the effects of endocrinopathies and 
increase life expectancy and symptom-free survival. However, it has yet to be 
fully investigated how hepatectomy for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors can be 
performed safely. Here we report the results of 13 patients with neuroendocrine 
liver metastases operated on in our institution and those of a French 
multicentric study that included 131 patients. Preoperative patient selection 
and appropriate surgical technique, sometimes combined with preoperative portal 
embolization and local tumor destruction (radiofrequency and cryotherapy), may 
increase the resectability and the safety of the procedure. The mortality rate 
after hepatectomy was 0% (2.3% in the French study); the 3- and 6-year survival 
rates were 91% and 68%, respectively, in our institution (the mean survival time 
was 66 months in the French multicentric survey). Significant prolonged survival 
with complete palliation of symptoms can be obtained after liver metastases 
resection with low mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-001-0014-7
PMID: 11376398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Am J Surg. 2001 Mar;181(3):251-5. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00551-7.

The impact of diabetes on arterial reconstructions for multilevel arterial 
occlusive disease.

Faries PL(1), LoGerfo FW, Hook SC, Pulling MC, Akbari CM, Campbell DR, 
Pomposelli FB Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, 5 East 98th Street, Box 1259, New York, NY 10029, USA. 
peter.faries@mssm.edu

PURPOSE: Critical limb ischemia due to multilevel arterial occlusive disease 
often may be treated with an inflow procedure alone; however, a subset patients 
require a subsequent infrainguinal revascularization for persistence of their 
symptoms. As diabetic patients typically exhibit a pattern of extensive distal 
arterial disease, we sought to determine if the presence of diabetes mellitus 
altered the need for an outflow procedure after inflow bypass.
METHODS: A total of 504 patients undergoing inflow bypass for occlusive disease 
and lower extremity ischemia between 1990 and 1998 were entered prospectively 
into a computerized vascular registry. Inflow bypass procedures performed were 
as follows: aortofemoral (370; 73%), axillofemoral (56; 11%), femorofemoral (81; 
16%). Of these patients, 79 required subsequent outflow bypass for unresolved 
ischemic symptoms. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to analyze the 
effects of diabetes and multiple other risk factors on the need for an 
additional outflow procedure.
RESULTS: The indications for surgery were limb salvage (78%) and disabling 
claudication (22%). Overall morbidity was 17.7% (hematoma, 3.8%; wound 
infection, 2.5%; graft occlusion, 1.3%; myocardial infarction, 2.5%; acute renal 
failure,1.3%; pulmonary failure, 2.5%; pneumonia, 3.8%). Overall mortality was 
0%. Diabetic patients comprised a greater proportion of the total number of 
patients requiring inflow bypass (301 of 504) as well as a greater proportion of 
patients requiring inflow and outflow procedures (47 of 79). Diabetes was 
determined not to be an independent risk factor for the need for multiple 
revascularization procedures by multiple logistic regression analysis (P >0.10).
CONCLUSION: Although patients with diabetes are predisposed to the development 
of distal arterial occlusive disease, in this study the subgroup of diabetic 
patients who present with aortoiliac occlusive disease were no more likely than 
patients without diabetes to require multiple levels of revascularization. These 
findings provide little rationale for simultaneous inflow and outflow procedures 
based on the presence of diabetes alone.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00551-7
PMID: 11376581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Jun;54(6):565-70. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00338-3.

A comparison of three measures: the time trade-off technique, global 
health-related quality of life and the SF-36 in dialysis patients.

Maor Y(1), King M, Olmer L, Mozes B.

Author information:
(1)The Center for the Study of Clinical Reasoning, The Gertner Institute for 
Epidemiology and Health Policy Research, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Sheba Medical Center, 52621, Tel Hashomer, Israel. 
maory@post.tau.ac.il

We investigated the correlation between descriptive and valuational measures of 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) and assessed determinants affecting these 
measures. Our suspicion was that there is little similarity in the content of 
descriptive and valuational measures of HRQL. We thus conducted a 
cross-sectional observational study of 56 hemodialysis patients. All underwent 
structured interviews. Dependent variables were patients utilities [time 
trade-off (TTO)], global rating of HRQL and generic HRQL (SF-36). Independent 
variables were socioeconomic details, disease severity, comorbidity, symptoms, 
depression, social support, and laboratory data. The correlation between TTO and 
global HRQL was -0.33 (P = .0178) and between TTO and the SF-36 physical and 
mental summary scores -0.16 (P = .2383) and -0.20 (P = .1443), respectively. The 
regression models for the SF-36 physical and mental summary scores explained 75% 
and 64% of the variance, and for global HRQL 29% of the variance. The 
independent variables had no effect on the TTO. This confirmed our suspicion 
that a qualitative difference exists between TTO and descriptive quality of life 
tools. The TTO content could not be explained by the variables that entail the 
content of HRQL instruments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00338-3
PMID: 11377116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Jun;54(6):571-9. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00342-5.

Establishing the minimal number of items for a responsive, valid, health-related 
quality of life instrument.

Moran LA(1), Guyatt GH, Norman GR.

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Research Unit, Rush University, Chicago, IL, USA.

Reducing the number of items in a health-related quality of life instrument will 
enhance efficiency. However, it is important to maintain measurement properties. 
We determined the effect of reducing items from each domain (dyspnea, fatigue, 
emotion and mastery) of the 20-item Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ). 
Three randomized trials of respiratory rehabilitation provided data. We removed 
items one at a time from each domain in three orders: by item impact, item 
responsiveness, and at random. Responsiveness, test-retest reliability and 
construct validity were evaluated at each step. Responsiveness and reliability, 
evaluated by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), were reduced marginally 
as the number of items was reduced to two items per domain. The deterioration 
was greatest when reducing from two items to one. To detect a particular effect, 
sample size would increase by about 10% when reducing the number of items in a 
domain to 2. Construct validity showed a more marked deterioration. Reducing to 
two items per domain would maintain responsiveness and reliability of the CRQ at 
an acceptable level, with a trade-off of reduced construct validity and increase 
in sample size requirements.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00342-5
PMID: 11377117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Lancet. 2001 May 12;357(9267):1512. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04719-X.

Canadian men need a healthier lifestyle.

Kondro W.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Sep 8;358(9284):842-3.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04719-X
PMID: 11377624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Eur J Heart Fail. 2001 Jun;3(3):315-22. doi: 10.1016/s1388-9842(00)00141-0.

More 'malignant' than cancer? Five-year survival following a first admission for 
heart failure.

Stewart S(1), MacIntyre K, Hole DJ, Capewell S, McMurray JJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Initiative in Heart Failure, University of Glasgow, G12 
8QQ, Glasgow, UK.

BACKGROUND: The prognostic impact of heart failure relative to that of 
'high-profile' disease states such as cancer, within the whole population, is 
unknown.
METHODS: All patients with a first admission to any Scottish hospital in 1991 
for heart failure, myocardial infarction or the four most common types of cancer 
specific to men and women were identified. Five-year survival rates and 
associated loss of expected life-years were then compared.
RESULTS: In 1991, 16224 men had an initial hospitalisation for heart failure 
(n=3241), myocardial infarction (n=6932) or cancer of the lung, large bowel, 
prostate or bladder (n=6051). Similarly, 14842 women were admitted for heart 
failure (n=3606), myocardial infarction (n=4916), or cancer of the breast, lung, 
large bowel or ovary (n=6320). With the exception of lung cancer, heart failure 
was associated with the poorest 5-year survival rate (approximately 25% for both 
sexes). On an adjusted basis, heart failure was associated with worse long-term 
survival than bowel cancer in men (adjusted odds ratio, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.82-0.97; 
P<0.01) and breast cancer in women (odds ratio, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.55-0.64; 
P<0.001). The overall population rate of expected life-years lost due to heart 
failure in men was 6.7 years/1000 and for women 5.1 years/1000.
CONCLUSION: With the notable exception of lung cancer, heart failure is as 
'malignant' as many common types of cancer and is associated with a comparable 
number of expected life-years lost.

DOI: 10.1016/s1388-9842(00)00141-0
PMID: 11378002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Neurobiol Aging. 2001 May-Jun;22(3):347-8; discussion 353-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00250-5.

Life span and synapses: will there be a primary senile dementia?

Terry RD(1), Katzman R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, 92093, 
USA.

Comment in
    Neurobiol Aging. 2001 May-Jun;22(3):349-50.
    Neurobiol Aging. 2001 May-Jun;22(3):351-2.

In the course of normal aging from about age 20 to 100, the population density 
of neocortical synapses declines toward, but not reaching, the level found in 
Alzheimer disease. A deficiency of synapses at birth or due to inadequate 
childhood education would theoretically cause the synaptic slope to reach the 
Alzheimer level early. The normal slope would cross into that dementia range at 
about age 130, resulting in true primary senile dementia without regard to the 
presence of plaques and tangles.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00250-5
PMID: 11378236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Neurobiol Aging. 2001 May-Jun;22(3):349-50. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00244-x.

Which synapses are affected in aging and what is the nature of their 
vulnerability? A commentary on "life span and synapses: will there be a primary 
senile dementia?".

Morrison JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Kastor Neurobiology of Aging Laboratories, Fishberg Research Center for 
Neurobiology, and the Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount 
Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. John.Morrison@mssm.edu

Comment on
    Neurobiol Aging. 2001 May-Jun;22(3):347-8; discussion 353-4.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00244-x
PMID: 11378237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eur J Cancer. 2001 Jun;37(9):1149-57. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00094-6.

Incidence and prevalence of all cancerous diseases in Italy: trends and 
implications.

Verdecchia A(1), Mariotto A, Capocaccia R, Gatta G, Micheli A, Sant M, Berrino 
F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Viale Regina Elena, 299, 00161, Rome, Italy. verdeck@iss.it

The burden of cancer in ageing populations is causing great concern, 
particularly in Italy with Europe's fastest growing elderly population. Studying 
all cancers combined in one group, although of limited medical value, is of 
great interest from the viewpoints of public health, epidemiology and the 
economy. Using mortality data and an estimate of cancer patients' survival we 
have estimated and projected incidence and prevalence in Italy of all cancers 
combined in one group. Five major phenomena are highlighted in the paper: (1) 
the decrease in the age-adjusted cancer mortality rates among females and the 
stable mortality rates among males since 1990; (2) the changing pattern of 
cancer incidence since 1990, it has started to decrease for females and is 
stabilising for males; (3) the decrease in cancer incidence among males and 
females born after 1940; (4) the increase in the proportion of cancer patients 
that are cured with calendar years of diagnosis; (5) the increase in the total 
and the healthy life expectancy (i.e. cancer-free) among the Italian population 
since 1970. The declining and flat trends in age-adjusted cancer incidence and 
mortality rates since 1990 is the combined effect of survival improvements and 
cancer risk reduction for younger cohort groups, after 1940. These favourable 
trends contribute to the increase in healthy life expectation, thus supporting 
the idea that we live longer and healthier.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00094-6
PMID: 11378346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Med J Aust. 2000 Dec 4-18;173(11-12):594-6. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb139353.x.

Just how long can we live?

Sutherland GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cytogenetics and Molecular Genetics, Women's and Children's 
Hospital, Adelaide, SA. gsutherland@medicine.adelaide.edu.au

In June this year, United States President Clinton and British Prime Minister 
Blair jointly announced that the human genome had been sequenced. In another 
year or so, this information should be assembled into a much more useful form 
than that in which it now exists. The advances which will be made possible by 
the Human Genome Project and new genetic technologies may well extend the human 
life span still further.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb139353.x
PMID: 11379499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Med J Aust. 2000 Dec 4-18;173(11-12):601-3. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb139356.x.

Social consequences of manufactured longevity.

Hassan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA. 
Riaz.Hassan@flinders.edu.au

The signs are that advances in biomedical sciences will add more years of 
"manufactured time" to life expectancy in industrialised countries, resulting in 
unprecedented rates of survival into older ages. Increasing longevity will force 
economic and social changes and the 20th-century revolution in social roles 
looks set to continue into the 21st century.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb139356.x
PMID: 11379502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Am Psychoanal Assoc. 2001 Winter;49(1):103-11. doi: 
10.1177/00030651010490011001.

The mortality of psychoanalysts.

Jeffery EH.

Comment in
    J Am Psychoanal Assoc. 2001 Winter;49(1):97-102.

The mortality rate for male psychoanalysts was compared to that for the general 
white male population; for male physicians; and for male psychiatrists and 
neurologists. For psychoanalysts the rate was found to be significantly lower 
than for any of the other three groups. Several possible explanations for this 
low mortality rate are considered. Two major factors may be the careful 
screening of candidates for psychoanalytic training and their personal analysis. 
Possible methods of controlling for these factors are suggested.

DOI: 10.1177/00030651010490011001
PMID: 11379717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Am Psychoanal Assoc. 2001 Winter;49(1):97-102. doi: 
10.1177/00030651010490010701.

Introduction to Jeffery: why psychoanalysts have low mortality rates.

Doidge N(1).

Author information:
(1)Norman.doidge@utoronto.ca
