
DOI: 10.1093/jnci/93.11.850
PMID: 11390534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Heart Fail Rev. 2001 Sep;6(3):187-93. doi: 10.1023/a:1011477132227.

The endoventricular circular patch plasty ("Dor procedure") in ischemic akinetic 
dilated ventricles.

Dor V(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre Cardio-Thoracique, Monaco.

From 1984 to 2000, 950 Left Ventricular ischemic asynergy (dyskinetic or 
akinetic) were operated using the endoventricular circular patch plasty 
technique. This allows to exclude all asynergic areas of the left ventricular 
wall and reshape the remaining wall. Both morphology and hemodynamic of left 
ventricle, are improved. Hospital mortality was below 7%. Life expectancy at 10 
years reaches 80% if pre-operative L.V.E.F. is above 30%, and end systolic 
volume index (E.S.V.I.) below 90[emsp4 ]ml, and 60% in L.V.E.F. is below 30% and 
E.S.V.I. above 90[emsp4 ]ml. L.V.R. by endoventricular plasty has to be 
considered in the treatment of ischemic congestive heart failure.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011477132227
PMID: 11391036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2001 May;96(4):577-81. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762001000400021.

The effect of isolation on the life-history traits of Pseudosuccinea columella 
(Pulmonata: Lymnaeidae).

Gutiérrez A(1), Perera G, Yong M, Lin W.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Malacología, Instituto 'Pedro Kourí, La Habana, Cuba. 
alfredo@ipk.sld.cu

A population of Pseudosuccinea columella was raised under laboratory conditions 
and its life tables were determined in isolated and paired snails. Isolated 
snails were significantly larger in shell size than paired snails from five 
weeks of age onward. Also, statistically significant differences were found for 
the number of eggs per mass per individual from week 5 to 9, isolated snails 
exhibiting the highest values. The intrinsic and finite rates of increase were 
greater in isolated than in paired snails. Either an inhibition of the 
reproductive output between individuals or the advantage of selfing may be the 
cause of the differences in this species, acting as a possible mechanism that 
increase the fitness of isolated snails.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762001000400021
PMID: 11391433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Rev Neurol. 2001 Apr 16-30;32(8):742-5.

[Microvascular decompression of trigeminal neuralgia caused by vertebrobasilar 
dolichoectasia].

[Article in Spanish]

García De Sola R(1), Escosa Bagé M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid, 
28006, Spain. rgsola@retemail.es

INTRODUCTION: Trigeminal neuralgia due to vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia is an 
acquired disease whose true incidence is not known. Microvascular decompression 
is the most effective technique both for symptomatic relief and for the 
conservation of nerve structure and function, in spite of the potential 
complications of all major surgery. In cases which are drug-resistant and have a 
life expectancy of over five years, microvascular decompression may be done 
using several techniques.
CLINICAL CASES: We present three cases with drug-resistant trigeminal neuralgia. 
One patient had a history of previous cerebrovascular ischaemia, another had 
arterial and pulmonary hypertension. In all cases vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia 
was seen on magnetic resonance. Microvascular decompression of the trigeminal 
nerve was done, placing pieces of Teflon between the tentorium and the artery to 
displace it. Postoperatively the pain disappeared in two cases and was much 
relieved in the other, making good progress with no complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Trigeminal neuralgia due to vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia is a 
progressive acquired disease. The imaging technique of choice is magnetic 
resonance. Cerebral angiography may be useful for confirmation. This new 
technique of microvascular decompression avoids excessive manipulation of the 
ectatic, arteriosclerotic basilar artery and also pulsatile compression, so that 
the risk of secondary effects is reduced and the efficacy of the decompression 
maintained. Further cases are needed to confirm the usefulness of this 
technique.

PMID: 11391510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Health Rep. 2001 Apr;12(3):1-82.

The health divide--how the sexes differ.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11392903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Demography. 2001 May;38(2):215-26. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0018.

Increasing longevity and Medicare expenditures.

Miller T(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Economics and Demography of Aging, University of California at 
Berkeley, 2232 Piedmont Avenue, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. 
tmiller@demog.berkeley.edu

Official Medicare projections forecast that the elderly population will be less 
healthy and more costly over the next century. This prediction stems from the 
use of age as an indicator of health status: increases in longevity are assumed 
to increase demand for health care as individuals survive to older and 
higher-use ages. In this paper I suggest an alternative approach, in which time 
until death replaces age as the demographic indicator of health status. 
Increases in longevity are assumed to postpone the higher Medicare use and costs 
associated with the final decade of life. I contrast the two approaches, using 
mortality forecasts consistent with recent projections from the U.S. Census 
Bureau and the Social Security Administration. The time-until-death method 
yields significantly lower-cost forecasts. The hypothetical cost savings from 
improved health care small, however, relative to the size of the Medicare 
solvency problem caused by population aging.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0018
PMID: 11392909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Demography. 2001 May;38(2):227-51. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0015.

Inequality in life expectancy, functional status, and active life expectancy 
across selected black and white populations in the United States.

Geronimus AT(1), Bound J, Waidmann TA, Colen CG, Steffick D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, University of Michigan, 
USA. arline@umich.edu

We calculated population-level estimates of mortality, functional health, and 
active life expectancy for black and white adults living in a diverse set of 23 
local areas in 1990, and nationwide. At age 16, life expectancy and active life 
expectancy vary across the local populations by as much as 28 and 25 years 
respectively. The relationship between population infirmity and longevity also 
varies. Rural residents outlive urban residents, but their additional years are 
primarily inactive. Among urban residents, those in more affluent areas outlive 
those in high-poverty areas. For both whites and blacks, these gains represent 
increases in active years. For whites alone they also reflect reductions in 
years spent in poor health.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0015
PMID: 11392910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Health Care Manag Sci. 2001 Jun;4(2):117-24. doi: 10.1023/a:1011405610919.

A simulation modelling approach to evaluating alternative policies for the 
management of the waiting list for liver transplantation.

Ratcliffe J(1), Young T, Buxton M, Eldabi T, Paul R, Burroughs A, 
Papatheodoridis G, Rolles K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.

A shortage of donor liver grafts unfortunately results in approximately 10% of 
patients dying whilst listed for a liver transplant in Europe and the United 
States. Thus it is imperative that all available organs are used as efficiently 
as possible. This paper reports upon the application of a simulation modelling 
approach to assess the impact of several alternative allocation policies upon 
the cost effectiveness of this technology at one liver transplant centre in the 
UK. The impact of changes in allocation criteria on the estimated net life 
expectancy, average net costs and overall cost effectiveness of the 
transplantation programme were evaluated. The incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) for the base case allocation policy, based upon the time spent on 
the waiting list (i.e., longest wait first) was 11,557 pounds sterling at 1999 
prices. The ICERs associated with an allocation policy based upon age (lowest 
age first), and an allocation policy based upon the severity of the 
pre-transplant condition of the patient (with most severely ill patients given a 
lower priority) were lower than the base case at 10,424 pounds sterling and 
9,077 pounds sterling, respectively. The results of this modelling study suggest 
that the overall cost effectiveness of the liver transplantation programme could 
be improved if the current allocation policy were modified to give more weight 
to the age of the patient and the reduced chances of success of the most 
severely ill patients.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011405610919
PMID: 11393740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2001 Jan-Feb;84(1-2):7-12. doi: 10.1007/s004210000330.

Changes in muscle size, architecture, and neural activation after 20 days of bed 
rest with and without resistance exercise.

Kawakami Y(1), Akima H, Kubo K, Muraoka Y, Hasegawa H, Kouzaki M, Imai M, Suzuki 
Y, Gunji A, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Komaba 
3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. kawakami@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Nine healthy men carried out head-down bed rest (BR) for 20 days. five subjects 
(TR) performed isometric, bilateral leg extension exercise every day, while the 
other four (NT) did not. Before and after BR, maximal isometric knee extension 
force was measured. Neural activation was assessed using a supramaximal twitch 
interpolated over voluntary contraction. From a series cross-sectional magnetic 
resonance imaging scans of the thigh, physiological cross-sectional areas (PCSA) 
of the quadriceps muscles were estimated (uncorrected PCSA, volume/estimated 
fibre length). Decrease in mean muscle force after BR was greater in NT [-10.9 
(SD 6.9)%, P < 0.05] than in TR [0.5 (SD 7.9)%, not significant]. Neural 
activation did not differ between the two groups before BR, but after BR NT 
showed smaller activation levels. Pennation angles of the vastus lateralis 
muscle, determined by ultrasonography, showed no significant changes in either 
group. The PCSA decreased in NT by -7.8 (SD 0.8)% (P < 0.05) while in TR PCSA 
showed only an insignificant tendency to decrease [-3.8 (SD 3.8)%]. Changes in 
force were related more to changes in neural activation levels than to those in 
PCSA. The results suggest that reduction of muscle strength by BR is affected by 
a decreased ability to activate motor units, and that the exercise used in the 
present experiment is effective as a countermeasure.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210000330
PMID: 11394257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2001 Jun 8;284(2):431-5. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.2001.4962.

Morphological and physiological restorations of hereditary form of dilated 
cardiomyopathy by somatic gene therapy.

Kawada T(1), Sakamoto A, Nakazawa M, Urabe M, Masuda F, Hemmi C, Wang Y, Shin 
WS, Nakatsuru Y, Sato H, Ozawa K, Toyo-oka T.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Division, Niigata University, Japan.

TO-2 strain hamsters with dilated cardiomyopathy, gene deletion of 
delta-sarcoglycan (SG) and no expression of alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-SG 
proteins are useful for developing the potential gene therapy of intractable 
heart failure. We prepared recombinant adeno-associated virus vector including 
normal delta-SG gene driven by CMV promoter and intramurally administered in 
vivo. The transfected myocardium induced robust expression of both transcript 
and transgene for 2/3 period of the animal's life expectancy. Immunostaining 
demonstrated reexpression of not only delta-SG but also other three SGs in 40% 
cells in the transfected region and normalization of the diameter of transduced 
cardiomyocytes. Hemodynamic study revealed preferential amelioration of the 
diastolic indices (LVEDP, the dP/dt(min) and CVP). These results provide the 
first evidence that supplementation of a specific gene with efficient and 
sustained transfection capability restores the genetic, morphological, and 
functional deteriorations.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.2001.4962
PMID: 11394897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Jul 1;50(3):727-33. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01462-6.

Cervical lymph node metastases from occult squamous cell carcinoma: cut down a 
tree to get an apple?

Nieder C(1), Gregoire V, Ang KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, TU Munich, 
Munich, Germany. cnied@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To review the value of extended diagnostic work-up procedures and to 
compare the results of comprehensive or volume-restricted radiotherapy in 
patients presenting with cervical lymph node metastases from clinically 
undetectable squamous cell carcinoma.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A systematic review was undertaken of published papers up 
to May 2000.
RESULTS: Positron emission tomography (PET) has an overall staging accuracy of 
69%, with a positive predictive value of 56% and negative predictive value of 
86%. With negative routine clinical examination and computerized tomography (CT) 
or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), PET detected primary tumors in 5-25% of 
patients, whereas ipsilateral tonsillectomy discovered carcinoma in about 25% of 
patients. Laser-induced fluorescence imaging with panendoscopy and directed 
biopsies showed some encouraging preliminary results and warrants further study. 
All together, the reported mucosal carcinoma emergence rates were 2-13% (median, 
9.5%) after comprehensive radiotherapy and 5-44% (median, 8%) after unilateral 
neck irradiation. The corresponding nodal relapse rates were 8-45% (median, 19%) 
and 31-63% (median, 51.5%), and 5-year survival rates were 34-63% (median, 50%) 
and 22-41% (median, 36.5%), respectively. Retrospective single-institution 
comparisons between comprehensive and unilateral neck radiotherapy did not show 
apparent differences in outcome. Prognostic determinants for survival are the N 
stage, number of nodes, extracapsular extension, and histologic grade. No data 
were found to support the benefit of chemotherapy in this disease.
CONCLUSION: Physical examination, CT or MRI, and panendoscopy with biopsies 
remain the standard work-up for these patients. Routine use of PET or 
laser-induced fluorescence imaging cannot be firmly advocated based on presently 
available data. Although combination of nodal dissection with comprehensive 
radiotherapy yielded most favorable results, its impact on the quality of life 
should be recognized, and the confounding effects of patient selection for 
various treatment modalities on therapeutic outcome cannot be ruled out. A 
randomized trial comparing the therapeutic value of comprehensive vs. 
volume-limited radiotherapy is being considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01462-6
PMID: 11395241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Eur J Intern Med. 2001 Jul;12(4):327-333. doi:
10.1016/s0953-6205(01)00128-5.

Renal function and renal disease in the elderly: Part II.

Mulder WJ(1), Hillen HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Maastricht, P.O. Box 
5800, 6202 AZ, Maastricht, The Netherlands

In all industrialized countries, life expectancy has risen in the past 100 
years. The incidence of elderly patients reaching end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
and requiring renal replacement therapy has also increased. During the past few 
decades, the pattern of ESRD has changed significantly with the emerging 
predominance of elderly patients. The causes of this phenomenon are manifold and 
include an increasing number of chronic diseases typical of the 'third age', 
such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and vascular disease. In many species, a 
consequence of aging includes deterioration of renal function, partly due to 
structural alterations, and partly as the result of a diminishing blood flow. In 
humans, the aging kidney is characterized by modifications resulting from 
organic and functional disturbances. In particular, type 2 diabetes mellitus has 
emerged as an important condition, the microvascular and macrovascular 
complications of which are a common cause of morbidity and mortality in older 
patients. In Part II of this review, the specific aspects of renal replacement 
therapy in the elderly will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0953-6205(01)00128-5
PMID: 11395295


111. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2001 Jun;226(6):552-8. doi:
10.1177/153537020122600607.

Reduced levels of thyroid hormones, insulin, and glucose, and lower body core 
temperature in the growth hormone receptor/binding protein knockout mouse.

Hauck SJ(1), Hunter WS, Danilovich N, Kopchick JJ, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale, Illinois 62901-6512, USA. shauck@siumed.edu

The mechanisms that are responsible for the extension of lifespan in the mouse 
with targeted disruption (knockout [KO]) of the growth hormone (GH) 
receptor/binding protein (GHR-KO) are unknown. However, in the long-living Ames 
dwarf mouse, blood glucose and body core temperature (Tco) are consistently 
lower than in normal mice. In addition, insulin levels are reduced and 
corticosterone levels are elevated in male dwarfs. These functional alterations, 
similar to those seen in animals under caloric restriction, have not been proven 
to be causally related to the extension of lifespan, but they do provide some 
insight into what traits may be necessary for long life. Therefore, to 
investigate which of these parameters are similarly affected in two genetically 
unrelated, yet similarly long-living mouse models, we measured Tco, thyroid 
hormones (triiodothyronine [T3] and thyroxine [T4]), and insulin, in addition to 
morning and afternoon levels of glucose and corticosterone, in young adult male 
and/or female GHR-KO mice and their normal siblings. Tco in GHR-KO mice was 
numerically reduced throughout the 24-hr period; however, these differences were 
only significant 4 hr prior to lights-off (14:00 hr), immediately after 
lights-off (18:00 hr), and during the 3 hr preceding lights on (03:00 to 06:00 
hr). GHR-KO mice had significantly reduced levels of T3 and T4, while the ratio 
of these hormones was similar to that in normal mice. Insulin levels in GHR-KO 
mice were lower than in normal mice; levels in male GHR-KO mice were below the 
detectable limits of the assay used. Glucose levels in GHR-KO mice (male and 
females) were lower than in normal mice in measurements taken in both morning 
and afternoon; however, these differences arose from consistent reductions in 
males, as morning glucose levels in GHR-KO females were similar to those of 
normal mice. Corticosterone levels measured in blood plasma collected under 
basal (nonstressed) conditions showed sex-related alterations. Basal 
corticosterone levels in female GHR-KO mice were similar to normal females, 
while those in male GHR-KO mice were higher than in normal males in the 
afternoon. Corticosterone levels in stressed GHR-KO females were similar to 
those measured in stressed normal females. These data show that the long-living 
GHR-KO mouse shares a reduction in glucose, insulin, thyroid hormones, and Tco 
with the Ames dwarf mouse. Reductions in these parameters may be important to 
the underlying mechanisms of delayed aging in these animals.

DOI: 10.1177/153537020122600607
PMID: 11395925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Drug Ther Bull. 2001 May;39(5):33-7. doi: 10.1136/dtb.2001.39533.

Acute complications of sickle cell disease in children.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Drug Ther Bull 2001 Aug;39(8):64.

Sickle cell disease is a recessively inherited condition in which synthesis of 
haemoglobin is abnormal. The disease, which occurs mainly in people of African, 
African-Caribbean, Indian, Mediterranean and Middle Eastern descent, is 
characterised by chronic anaemia, susceptibility to infection, bouts of severe 
pain and organ dysfunction. While the life expectancy for patients has improved, 
from a median survival age of 14 years in the 1970s among those homozygous for 
the sickle haemoglobin gene to survival into the mid-40s, childhood remains a 
period of peak mortality and morbidity. Here, we discuss the acute complications 
of sickle cell disease in children, concentrating on the management of the 
acutely unwell child.

DOI: 10.1136/dtb.2001.39533
PMID: 11396389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 May;13(5):483-8. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200105000-00004.

A pragmatic and cost-effective strategy of a combination therapy of interferon 
alpha-2b and ribavirin for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.

Sagmeister M(1), Wong JB, Mullhaupt B, Renner EL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital, Zurich, 
Switzerland. markus.sagmeister@dim.usz.ch

Comment in
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 May;13(5):473-6.

BACKGROUND: Combination of interferon (IFN) alpha and ribavirin is considered 
the standard treatment for patients with chronic hepatitis C. While combination 
therapy is more effective than IFN alone, the optimal management of combination 
treatment remains uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To assess a pragmatic and cost-effective strategy for the therapy of 
treatment-naive patients with chronic hepatitis C.
DESIGN: Markov model on original data of two randomized trials.
METHODS: A validated computer simulation model was applied to non-cirrhotic 
hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients. Patient characteristics and efficacy 
of treatment were extracted from two randomized trials reporting on 1,445 
non-cirrhotic patients. Different strategies were compared separately for 
genotype 1 and genotype non-1 (mostly genotype 2/3) infections: (1) no 
treatment; (2) IFN for 48 weeks (if at 12 weeks HCV RNA undetectable); (3) IFN 
and ribavirin for 24 weeks; (4) IFN and ribavirin for 48 weeks; (5) IFN and 
ribavirin for 48 weeks (if at 24 weeks HCV RNA undetectable). All strategies 
were tested for different combinations of known response factors.
RESULTS: In genotype non-1 infection, 24 weeks of combination therapy dominates 
all other strategies. In genotype 1 infection, 48 weeks of combination therapy 
for week-24 responders only prolongs life expectancy at a favourable 
cost-effectiveness ratio (CE) of 7,135 euros per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY). Taking response factors other than genotype into account does not add to 
the effectiveness or cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Treating non-cirrhotic patients with chronic hepatitis C according 
to genotype only is most cost effective independent of the number of other known 
response factors.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200105000-00004
PMID: 11396525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2001 Jun;42(3):375-9.

Is arterial surgery advisable for patients over 80 years of age?

Matsubara J(1), Sakamoto S, Shikata H, Hida K, Kobayashi M, Kobata T, Kurose K.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Kanazawa Medical University, Ishikawa, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Recently life expectancy has become longer and longer. The purpose 
of this study was to analyse whether arterial surgery for patients over 80 years 
of age is advisable.
METHODS: During the last 14 years, 527 patients, 50 of whom were over 80 and 477 
of whom were under 80 years of age, received graft replacement or bypass 
surgery. They suffered from ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (R-AAA, n=21), 
non-ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (N-R AAA, n=133) or arteriosclerosis 
obliterans (ASO, n=373). Complications such as cerebrovascular disease, ischemic 
heart disease, respiratory and kidney dysfunction, and risk factors for ASO were 
also checked.
RESULTS: All of the patients over 80 with R-AAA (n=3/3) and 50% of the patients 
under 80 with R-AAA (n=9/18) died during their stay in the hospital. However, 
none of the N-R AAA patients over 80 (n=0/7) and only one of the 126 N-R AAA 
patients (0.8%) under 80 died. For the patients over 80 with ASO, the graft 
patency rate was better than the patients survival rate. There were no 
age-specific factors that should condemn arterial surgery for patients over 80 
years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial surgery should not be ruled out on the basis of age alone.

PMID: 11398036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2001 Apr;95(3):173-8.

[Knee joint endoprosthesis].

[Article in German]

Ostermann PA(1), Haase N, Cramer J, Ekkernkamp A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Unfallkrankenhaus Berlin. 
peter.ostermann@ukb.de

Total knee replacement is increasing in number due to increased life expectancy 
and improved implants. [figure: see text] Degenerative changes (arthritis) and 
joint destruction based on polyarthritis and posttraumatic deformities are the 
common indications. There are basically four modes for knee replacement: 
Unicompartimental prosthesis, non-constrained, semi-constrained (posterior 
stabilized) and constrained total knee arthroplasty. Of major importance in knee 
alloarthoplasty are restitution of the correct limb axis, sufficient lateral 
ligaments and the restoration of the patellofemoral joint. Therefore 
particularly in cases with deformities an extensive soft tissue release is 
mandatory. A meticulous operative technique and versatile implants lead to good 
clinical outcome. Possible complications are still septic and aseptic implant 
loosening as well as wound infections.

PMID: 11398619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Exp Biol. 2001 May;204(Pt 9):1589-604. doi: 10.1242/jeb.204.9.1589.

Stereotypic leg searching movements in the stick insect: kinematic analysis, 
behavioural context and simulation.

Dürr V(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Biokybernetik und Theoretische Biologie, Fakultät für Biologie, 
Universität Bielefeld, Postfach 10 01 31, D-33501 Bielefeld, Germany. 
volker.duerr@biologie.uni-bielefeld.de

Insects are capable of efficient locomotion in a spatially complex environment, 
such as walking on a forest floor or climbing in a bush. One behavioural 
mechanism underlying such adaptability is the searching movement that occurs 
after loss of ground contact. Here, the kinematic sequence of leg searching 
movements of the stick insect Carausius morosus is analysed. Searching movements 
are shown to be stereotypic rhythmic movement sequences consisting of several 
loops. The typical loop structure allows the mean tarsus trajectory to be 
calculated using a feature-based averaging procedure. Thus, it is possible to 
describe the common underlying structure of this movement pattern. Phase 
relationships between joint angles, analysed for searching front legs, indicate 
a central role for the thorax-coxa joint in searching movements. Accordingly, 
the stereotyped loop structure of searching differs between front-, middle- and 
hindlegs, with leg-specific patterns being caused by differing 
protraction/retraction movements in the thorax-coxa joint. A simple artificial 
neural network that had originally been devised to generate simple swing 
movements allows two essential features of empirical searching trajectories to 
be simulated: (i) cyclic movements and (ii) the smooth transition into a search 
trajectory as a non-terminated swing movement. It is possible to generate 
several loops of a middle-leg search, but the precise size and shape of the 
loops fall short of a real-life approximation. Incorporation of front-leg 
retraction or hind-leg protraction during searching will also require an 
extension to the current model. Finally, front-leg searching occurs 
simultaneously with antennal movements. Also, because leg searching movements 
are a local behaviour, the legs remaining on the ground continue their stance 
phase, causing a forward shift of the body, including the searching leg. As a 
result of this shift, the centre of the searched space is close to the anterior 
extreme position of the tarsus during walking, representing the location of most 
likely ground contact according to past experience. Therefore, the behavioural 
relevance of searching movements arises from the combined actions of several 
limbs.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.204.9.1589
PMID: 11398748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Ann Oncol. 2001 Apr;12(4):435-42. doi: 10.1023/a:1011170808734.

Chemotherapy in elderly patients with colorectal cancer.

Köhne CH(1), Grothey A, Bokemeyer C, Bontke N, Aapro M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Onology, University Rostock, Germany. 
henning.koehne@med.uni-rostock.de

BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer is usually diagnosed in patients around 70 years 
of age. With a continuous increase in life expectancy we may expect a higher 
number of elderly patients in the future. Because patients above 70 or 75 years 
are often excluded there is uncertainty as to what extent systemic adjuvant and 
palliative treatment should be offered to elderly patients.
METHODS: We reviewed the available literature on adjuvant and metastatic 
colorectal cancer in order to identify reports on elderly patients treated 
within chemotherapy trials.
RESULTS: Only about 20% of patients entering clinical trials belong to the age 
group of over 70 years and represent the minority of the very fit patients. 
Compared to their younger counterparts 5-FU-based treatment appears to be 
equally effective and more toxic according to some reports. Data regarding 
raltitrexed, oral fluoropyrimidines, topoisomerase I inhibitors or DACH-platin 
derivates are limited but suggest no age-specific differences in activity or 
toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients should not be excluded from clinical trials and 
studies in unfit elderly patients are warranted. Elderly patients need more 
attention regarding their functional, social and mental status. Fit elderly 
patients should be offered adjuvant or palliative chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011170808734
PMID: 11398873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Ann Epidemiol. 2001 Jul;11(5):312-9. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(00)00183-6.

Drinking pattern and mortality: the Italian Risk Factor and Life Expectancy 
pooling project.

Trevisan M(1), Schisterman E, Mennotti A, Farchi G, Conti S; Risk Factor And 
Life Expectancy Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, State University of New York at 
Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14214, USA. tervisan@buffalo.edu

PURPOSE: To analyze the relationship between an aspect of drinking pattern 
(i.e., drinking with or without meals) and risk of all-cause and specific-cause 
mortality.
METHODS: The Risk Factors and Life Expectancy Study, is a pooling of a series of 
epidemiological studies conducted in Italy. Eight-thousand six-hundred and 
forty-seven men and 6521 women, age 30-59 at baseline, and free of 
cardiovascular disease, were followed for mortality from all causes, 
cardiovascular and noncardiovascular, during an average follow-up of 7 years.
RESULTS: Drinkers of wine outside meals exhibited higher death rates from all 
causes, noncardiovascular diseases, and cancer, as compared to drinkers of wine 
with meals. This association was independent from the cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) risk factors measured at baseline and the amount of alcohol consumed and 
seemed to be stronger in women as compared to men.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results indicate that drinking patterns may have 
important health implications, and attention should be given to this aspect of 
alcohol use and its relationship to health outcomes. The relationship between 
alcohol consumption and disease has been the focus of intensive scientific 
investigation (1-9). Most studies to date, however, have limitations. A major 
drawback is that limited information has been collected regarding the complex 
issue of alcohol consumption. In many studies, ascertainment of alcohol 
consumption frequently focused only on quantity of alcohol consumed without 
considering the many different components of alcohol consumption, particularly 
drinking pattern (10-12). It has been hypothesized, and preliminary data support 
the notion, that drinking pattern could have important influences on determining 
the health effects of alcohol (13,14). The present study examines the 
relationship between one aspect of drinking pattern (drinking wine outside 
meals) and mortality in a large cohort of men and women.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(00)00183-6
PMID: 11399445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Transfusion. 2001 Jun;41(6):832-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2001.41060832.x.

Health and economic consequences of HCV lookback.

Pereira A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service of Hemotherapy and Hemostasis and the Blood Bank, Hospital Clinic, 
Barcelona, Spain. apereira@clinic.ub.es

BACKGROUND: Several countries have conducted or are considering campaigns of 
lookback on blood recipients who may have acquired posttransfusion HCV (PT-HCV) 
before the implementation of anti-HCV screening. There is, however, no 
estimation of the health and economic consequences of the medical interventions 
triggered by the lookback.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: This study used a Monte Carlo simulation of a Markov 
model representing the natural history of PT-HCV. Unadjusted and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and lifetime medical costs were calculated for 
a cohort of patients in whom PT-HCV is diagnosed through the lookback, and these 
values were compared with those calculated for a similar cohort on whom lookback 
is not performed.
RESULTS: The model predicts that 47 percent of people who received transfusions 
of HCV-infective blood 10 years ago are still alive, carry the infection, and 
have not yet progressed to end-stage liver failure. In this population, 
forthcoming complications of PT-HCV will reduce the remaining life expectancy by 
1.75 years per patient. Medical interventions triggered by the diagnosis of 
PT-HCV would salvage 0.123 years of life expectancy, at a net cost of $921 per 
newly diagnosed patient. The health and economic impact of diagnosing a new case 
of PT-HCV through lookback was sensitive to the patient's age, the efficacy of 
antiviral therapies, the time elapsed from transfusion to lookback, and the 
future inflation of costs of treating end-stage liver disease. Under some 
plausible assumptions, the intervention could result in net financial savings 
for the health care system, but it may also produce a net health loss for the 
majority of patients who will be said to be HCV-positive without being offered 
an effective therapy.
CONCLUSION: Diagnosis of PT-HCV through HCV lookback has a potential both to 
increase patients' life expectancy and to reduce health care costs. However, 
more effective antiviral therapies and a better knowledge of factors predicting 
the progression of PT-HCV are needed to attain those goals. Meanwhile, care 
should be taken to avoid pursuing a health gain for a minority that might result 
in a health loss for the majority.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2001.41060832.x
PMID: 11399829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Int J Cancer. 2001 Jul 20;95(4):216-22. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0215(20010720)95:4<216::aid-ijc1037>3.0.co;2-o.

Expression of angiomodulin (tumor-derived adhesion factor/mac25) in invading 
tumor cells correlates with poor prognosis in human colorectal cancer.

Adachi Y(1), Itoh F, Yamamoto H, Arimura Y, Kikkawa-Okabe Y, Miyazaki K, Carbone 
DP, Imai K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Sapporo Medical University, Sapporo, 
Japan. yadachi@sapmed.ac.jp

Angiomodulin (tumor-derived adhesion factor/mac25/insulin-like growth factor 
binding protein-7), a cell-adhesive glycoprotein, is secreted by cancer cells 
and vascular endothelial cells. It may be involved in angiogenesis and 
modulation of the vascular functions necessary for tumor development. Although 
angiomodulin is expressed in colon cancer, there is limited information on it 
concerning cancer progression. In the present immunohistochemical study, we 
examined expression of angiomodulin in human colorectal cancer and its 
relationship with prognosis. A group of 89 surgically resected colorectal 
cancers was investigated immunohistochemically. In 37 cases (41.6%), 
angiomodulin was expressed in invading cancer cells. Early recurrence within 12 
months after surgery was higher in patients with angiomodulin-expressing cancer 
than in those without (p < 0.05). The Kaplan-Meier life table revealed that 
patients with angiomodulin-positive tumor cells had a shorter survival time than 
those with negative cells (p < 0.01). The prognosis of patients with Dukes' C 
and angiomodulin-positive cells was apparently worse than that of patients with 
Dukes' D and angiomodulin-negative cells. Multivariate analysis with logistic 
regression indicated that only angiomodulin expression in cancer cells, lymph 
node metastasis and age remained significant prognostic variables for survival 
(p < 0.05). Angiomodulin showed correlations with poor prognosis, indicating 
that it may be a useful prognostic marker in patients with colorectal cancer.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0215(20010720)95:4<216::aid-ijc1037>3.0.co;2-o
PMID: 11400113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2001 Apr;121(4):265-8.

[Medical-economic analysis: a necessary complement to "evidence based 
medicine"].

[Article in French]

Wasserfallen JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois. jwasserf@hola.hospvd.ch

After an extraordinary technical development, medicine is under close scrutiny 
and requested to prove that its diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are 
"efficient, appropriate, and economical". Evidence based medicine allows the 
optimal use of existing data in the literature, but focuses only on health care 
benefits. Economical analyses take into account the health care resources needed 
to get these benefits. The various types of costs, perspectives of analysis, and 
techniques for assessing benefits and uncertainty about cost estimates, are 
presented and illustrated with two examples drawn from the fields of primary 
care and advanced technology. Because the cost benefit ratio of a diagnostic or 
therapeutic procedure is heavily dependent on the type of patients to which it 
is applied, as well as on the stage of technological progress, the two types of 
information are necessary to fully assess medical procedures.

PMID: 11400397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Qual Life Res. 2000;9(10):1127-35. doi: 10.1023/a:1016645523769.

Assessing health-related quality of life in cataract patients: the relationship 
between utility and health-related quality of life measurement.

Lee JE(1), Fos PJ, Zuniga MA, Kastl PR, Sung JH.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Harvard University, USA.

The relationship between health-related quality of life (HQL) measures and 
patient preference for their health status was studied. Study subjects consisted 
of 132 patients at four hospitals who were scheduled for cataract surgery. 
Generic and disease-specific health status measures were determined in study 
subjects. The Medical Outcomes Study Short-form 36 (SF-36) item health status 
instrument was used to measure generic health status and the Visual Function 14 
(VF-14) item visual health status instrument was used as the disease-specific 
health measure. Preference for general health and visual health was measured by 
assessing utilities assigned by patients to certain health states. Utilities 
assigned for general health were correlated with all categories of the SF-36 and 
VF-14 scores. Utilities assigned for visual health were correlated with four 
categories of the SF-36 (role limitation due to emotional health, general 
health, physical functioning, and vitality) and VF-14 scores. Utilities assigned 
for visual health were more strongly correlated with VF-14 scores than generic 
measures of health. Verbal ratings for visual health were correlated with 
Snellen visual acuity (SVA) (r = 0.20), utilities assigned for visual health (r 
= 0.58), VF-14 scores (r = 0.74), all categories of the SF-36 (r values ranging 
from 0.21 to 0.28), utilities assigned for general health (r = 0.19), and verbal 
ratings for general health (r = 0.29). Utility measures and verbal ratings for 
general and visual health were shown to be appropriate HQL measures. These 
measures were strongly correlated with other established generic and 
disease-specific health measures and should be included in the array of health 
status measures.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016645523769
PMID: 11401045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2001 Jun;79(3):251-5. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0420.2001.790308.x.

Risk factors for corneal graft failure and rejection in penetrating 
keratoplasty.

Inoue K(1), Amano S, Oshika T, Tsuru T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan. inoue-k@fd5.so-net.ne.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate risk factors for graft failure and allograft rejection 
after penetrating keratoplasty (PK).
METHODS: We retrospectively studied clinical results of PKs in terms of graft 
survival and rejection-free graft survival rates. PKs were done on 271 eyes 
between 1987 and 1997. Clinical results were analyzed by Kaplan-Meier's life 
table method and the log-rank test. Relative risks and adjusted survival 
probabilities for each value of the factor were compared with the risk for a 
specified reference value.
RESULTS: The overall rates of graft survival and rejection-free graft survival 
in 10 years after PK were 79.3% and 77.9%, respectively. Higher relative risk of 
graft failure was associated with corneal vascularization (relative risk for 
within one quadrant = 1.67, two quadrants = 2.37, three or more quadrants = 
3.39), regraft (relative risk for one failed previously graft = 2.08, two or 
more failed previously graft = 2.65), aphakia (relative risk = 2.17) or 
pseudophakia (relative risk = 3.02), presence of anterior synechia (relative 
risk = 2.91), presence of posterior synechia (relative risk = 2.56), long (more 
than 85 minutes) operation time (relative risk = 2.20), and older (more than 50 
years) recipient age (relative risk = 2.38). Higher relative risk of rejection 
was associated with corneal vascularization (relative risk for within one 
quadrant = 2.35, two quadrants = 2.03, three or more quadrants = 2.63), long 
(more than 85 minutes) operation time (relative risk = 1.47), and younger (less 
than 60 years) donor age (relative risk = 2.10). There was no association 
between graft failure or allograft rejection and graft size or suture technique, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The risk factors for graft failure after PK were corneal 
vascularization, regraft, aphakia or pseudophakia, presence of anterior 
synechia, presence of posterior synechia, long operation time, and older 
recipient age. The risk factors after PK for allograft rejection were corneal 
vascularization, long operation time, and younger donor age.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0420.2001.790308.x
PMID: 11401633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Plant Physiol. 2001 Jun;126(2):622-30. doi: 10.1104/pp.126.2.622.

Male meiotic spindle lengths in normal and mutant arabidopsis cells.

Yang M(1), Ma H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and The Life Sciences Consortium, Pennsylvania State 
University, 519 Wartik Lab, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Spindle elongation is crucial to normal chromosome separation in eukaryotes; in 
particular, it is required for or associated with the extension of distance 
between spindle poles and the further moving apart of the already separated 
chromosomes. However, little is known about the relationship between spindle 
elongation and the status of chromosome separation, and it is unknown whether 
spindle elongation in different organisms shares any quantitative feature. The 
Arabidopsis ask1-1 mutant might be a unique material for addressing these 
questions because it appears to have functional spindles, but a severe defect in 
homolog separation at male anaphase I (M. Yang, Y. Hu, M. Lodhi, W.R. McCombie, 
H Ma [1999] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 96: 11416-11421). We have characterized male 
meiotic spindle lengths in wild-type and the ask1-1 mutant plants. We observed 
that during meiosis I some ask1-1 cells had spindles that were similar in length 
to fully elongated normal spindles, but the chromosomes in these cells did not 
show appreciable movement from the equator. Furthermore, greater movement of 
chromosomes from the equator was usually found in the ask1-1 cells that had 
longer than normal spindles. These results suggest that additional elongation of 
ask1-1 spindles occurred; one possible reason for the extra-long spindles may be 
that it is a consequence of chromosome non-separation. We also found that normal 
and ask1-1 spindle lengths are clustered at discrete values, and their 
differences are of multiples of 0.7 microm. A search of the literature revealed 
that in each of several organisms, spindle lengths also differ by multiples of 
0.7 microm. These findings strongly suggest that the spindle elongates in 
response to status of chromosome separation, and perhaps there are conserved 
mechanisms controlling the extent of spindle elongation.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.126.2.622
PMCID: PMC111154
PMID: 11402192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Urol Clin North Am. 2001 May;28(2):423-36. doi:
10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70150-6.

Laparoscopic radical prostatectomy: technique.

Gill IS(1), Zippe CD.

Author information:
(1)Sections of Laparoscopic and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Cleveland Clinic 
Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Ongoing progress in laparoscopy has permitted extension of its indications for 
performance of complex oncologic and reconstructive surgeries such as radical 
prostatectomy. Laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is now feasible when performed 
by urologists trained in laparoscopy. Although the procedure is technically 
rewarding, it is more important to evaluate it in regards to efficacy. The 
short-term oncologic and functional efficacy rates (regarding urinary 
continence) seem equivalent to the rates for open surgery. Longer follow-up is 
needed to assess the preservation of potency with the laparoscopic technique. 
The integration and application of open nerve-sparing techniques to the 
laparoscopic approach should be feasible owing to the excellent visual accuracy 
at the prostatic apex. Initially, the operating time is lengthy (> 7 hours), but 
the length improves considerably with each series of 20 or more cases. Overall, 
the learning curve for laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is approximately 50 
cases. Whether the laparoscopic approach will ever be as time efficient for the 
urologist as open radical prostatectomy remains to be seen. The authors' 
preliminary impression from the patient's perspective is that laparoscopic 
prostatectomy may offer significant advantages over open surgery in terms of the 
immediate postoperative quality-of-life concerns.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70150-6
PMID: 11402593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Ugeskr Laeger. 2001 May 21;163(21):2907-12.

[Obesity among children--with particular reference to Danish circumstances].

[Article in Danish]

Wedderkopp N(1), Andersen LB, Hansen HS, Froberg K.

Author information:
(1)Syddansk Universitet-Odense Universitet, Institut for Idraet og Biomekanik.

Obesity is one of the most important predictors and causes of such lifestyle 
diseases as metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. It 
is thus imperative to follow the trend longitudinally in the population. 
Measurement of obesity in children and adolescents is difficult; many studies 
use the body mass index as a measure, regardless of the fact that it is 
inappropriate. Skinfolds or the ponderal index should be used, instead. Recent 
Danish studies suggest that the incidence of childhood and adolescent obesity is 
increasing and that those who are overweight are even more so today than 
earlier. Obesity is caused by a number of factors, genetic, social, 
environmental, and lifestyle, all of which play an important role. One of the 
main causes of the increase in childhood obesity in Denmark today is the lower 
level of physical activity than formerly. The prospects for the future are an 
increase in obesity and incidence of lifestyle diseases with a poorer quality of 
life and a shorter life time expectancy.

PMID: 11402967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nurse Educ Today. 2001 Jul;21(5):366-72. doi: 10.1054/nedt.2001.0567.

'Real life' clinical learning on an interprofessional training ward.

Freeth D(1), Reeves S, Goreham C, Parker P, Haynes S, Pearson S.

Author information:
(1)City University, St Bartholomew School of Nursing & Midwifery, 20 Bartholomew 
Close, London, UK. d.s.freeth@city.ac.uk

This paper describes the multi-method evaluation of an interprofessional 
training ward placement for medical, nursing, occupational therapy and 
physiotherapy students. Unique in the UK, and an extension of pioneering work in 
Sweden (Wahlström et al. 1997, Wahlstroöm & Sandén 1998), this interprofessional 
clinical placement allowed senior pre-qualifying students, under the supervision 
of practitioners, to plan and deliver interprofessional care for a group of 
orthopaedic and rheumatology patients. This responsibility enabled students to 
develop both their profession-specific skills in a real-world setting and the 
quality of their interprofessional teamwork. Student teams were supported by 
facilitators who led reflective sessions and acted as a resource for the 
students' problem-based learning. The training ward was evaluated by a 
multi-method approach, incorporating interviews, observations and questionnaires 
with students, patients and clinical staff. The evaluation findings have been 
grouped into a number of themes which offer an insight into the varying 
perspectives of training ward students, patients and staff. This paper pays 
particular attention to the nursing perspective of the interprofessional 
training ward pilot.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1054/nedt.2001.0567
PMID: 11403583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Jul;36(7):947-55. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00088-2.

Basic gerontology research in Ukraine: main trends.

Bezrukov VV(1), Burchinsky SG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology of the Academy of Medical Science of Ukraine, 
Vyoshgorodskaya str. 67, 04114 Kiev, Ukraine. admin@geront.kiev.ua

The main trends of basic research in gerontology in Ukraine are presented in 
this paper. The greatest attention is paid to the directions of research which 
have been traditionally followed in Ukrainian gerontology, such as neurohumoral 
regulation of the activities of different organs and systems and mechanisms of 
its age-related changes, metabolism in ageing, age-related immunology, 
elaboration of the ways and approaches to life-span prolongation. In recent 
years, more attention has been paid to research into the molecular--genetic 
mechanisms of ageing, the development of genetic and gene-regulatory therapy 
methods, the study of the mechanisms of accelerated and, above all, 
radiation-induced ageing and the elaboration of prophylactic methods against it.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00088-2
