PMID: 11404043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Jul;36(7):1075-82. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00113-9.

Hormonal changes in aging men: a therapeutic indication?

Hermann M(1), Berger P.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedical Aging Research, Austrian Academy of Sciences, 
Endocrinology Unit, Rennweg 10 A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

The rise in male life expectancy is paralleled by increased age-related clinical 
signs and symptoms such as muscle weakness, osteoporosis, benign prostatic 
hyperplasia, changes in body composition, fatigue, decreased sexual interest and 
activity, and increased prevalence of erectile dysfunction, all of which limit 
the quality of life. Many of these symptoms are similar to those of clinically 
well-defined hormone deficiencies, e.g. Kallman syndrome, Prader--Labhart--Willi 
syndrome or deficiencies due to treatment of pituitary tumors. Three male 
endocrine axes are characterized by age-related changes in concentrations of 
circulating hormones: (i) the hypothalamic--pituitary--testicular axis with 
lower serum levels of testosterone (T) and higher serum levels of luteinizing 
and follicle-stimulating hormone, (ii) the hypothalamic--pituitary--adrenal axis 
with its gradual decline in dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA-sulfate 
(DHEAS), (iii) the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) axis 
showing decreased hormone production concomitant with symptoms similar to those 
of GH-deficient adults. The beneficial effects of hormone replacement in 
nonelderly hormone-deficient individuals and in postmenopausal women raised hope 
that hormone substitution might prevent or even reverse some of the symptoms of 
male aging. However, this approach is hampered by the lack of individual 
age-related hormone reference values and reliable clinical read-out parameters. 
The findings so far do not support the need for widespread hormone replacement 
in elderly men. Larger long-term prospective studies are needed to identify 
clinically useful read-out parameters, and then demonstrate that hormone 
replacement can translate into functional parameters, thereby providing the 
individual benefit of treatment for aging men.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00113-9
PMID: 11404052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Jul;36(7):1101-36. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00114-0.

Life span extension and cancer risk: myths and reality.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Aging, Department of Carcinogenesis and 
Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research Institute of Oncology, Pesochny-2, 68 
Leningradskaya Street, 197758 St. Petersburg , Russian Federation. aging@mail.ru

A significant increase in the number of old people in the populations of 
developed countries was followed by an increase in morbidity and mortality 
resulting from main age-related diseases -- cardiovascular, cancer, 
neurodegenerative, diabetes mellitus, decrease in resistance to infections. 
Obviously, the development of the means of prevention of the premature aging of 
humans is crucial for the realization of this program. However, data available 
on such kind of means are rather scarce, contradictory and are often not 
reliable from the points of view of the adequacy of the experiments to current 
scientific requirements as well as the interpretation of the results and safety. 
Data available on the increase in life span and the adverse effects of the 
following geroprotectors were critically analyzed: antioxidants, chelate agents 
and lathyrogens, succinate, adaptogens and herbs, neurotropic drugs, inhibitors 
of monoamine oxidase, glucocorticoids, dehydroepiandrosterone, sex and growth 
hormones, melatonin, pineal peptide preparations, protein inhibitors, 
antidiabetic biguanides, thymic hormones and peptides, immunomodulators, 
enteroadsorbents, lypofuscin inhibitors, as well as calorie intake restriction 
and special diets. Most of the available results were insufficient and could not 
provide convincing evidence for the life span extension and the safety of the 
suggested geroprotectors. Drugs and means prolonging the life span could be 
subdivided into three groups: (a) geroprotectors prolonging the life span 
equally in all the members of the population: these postponed the beginning of 
the population's aging; (b) geroprotectors decreasing the mortality rate in a 
long-lived subpopulation, which raised their maximal life span: these slowed 
down the population's aging rate; (c) geroprotectors increasing the survival 
rate in a short-lived subpopulation without changes in the maximal life span: in 
this case, the aging rate increased. There was a high positive correlation 
between the type of geroprotector-induced aging delay and the pattern of tumour 
development in the same population of animals. The first type of geroprotectors 
did not influence the incidence of tumour but increased tumour latency. The 
second type of geroprotectors was effective both in the inhibition of 
spontaneous carcinogenesis and the increase in tumour latency. Certain drugs of 
the third type raised tumour incidence in the exposed populations. According to 
the multistage model, geroprotectors either inhibit or accelerate the passage of 
carcinogen-exposed cells form one stage to another. Thus, the efficacy of 
geroprotectors as preventive means of cancer development will decrease with 
respect to the age of exposure onset. Recommendations of the available drugs and 
means of life span increase should be carefully reconsidered under the 
international scientific control.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00114-0
PMID: 11404054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2001 Jun;20(6):687-91. doi: 
10.1016/s1053-2498(01)00238-8.

Transmyocardial laser revascularization in ischemic cardiomyopathy.

Grauhan O(1), Krabatsch T, Lieback E, Hetzer R.

Author information:
(1)German Heart Institute, Berlin, Germany. grauhan@dhzb.de

BACKGROUND: In ischemic cardiomyopathy (left ventricular ejection fraction 
[LVEF] < or = 30%), myocardial revascularization by coronary artery surgery has 
better results than heart transplantation, provided there is sufficient ischemic 
but viable myocardium. The mode of action of transmyocardial laser 
revascularization (TMR) is still being debated, but if the procedure induces 
improved myocardial perfusion it could be a "bridge," or alternative, to heart 
transplantation.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 194 patients, who underwent TMR between 
July 1997 and October 1999. Patients with TMR as an adjunct to coronary artery 
surgery (n = 30) and those who did not provide written consent to the procedure 
(n = 8) were excluded; 126 patients had normal or moderately reduced left 
ventricular function, and 30 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (LVEF < or = 
30%) were included.
RESULTS: After 12 months, the Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) score 
dropped significantly from 3.6 (3 to 4) to 2.4 (1 to 4) and maximum work load 
increased significantly from 58 W (25 to 100 W) to 73 W (25 to 120 W). However, 
thallium score and LVEF did not improve significantly (27% [15% to 30%] to 32% 
[15% to 45%]). Prior to the TMR procedure, all 30 patients had a "low risk" or 
"medium risk" of death according to the Aaronson classification. The 30-day, 
1-year, and 2-year survival rates were 83%, 50%, and 47%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that TMR in ischemic cardiomyopathy (LVEF < or = 30%) 
has a perioperative risk comparable to that for heart transplantation, but there 
is no improvement of myocardial performance or life expectancy. Therefore, TMR 
cannot be regarded as a "bridge," or alternative, to transplantation. However, 
in individual cases with contraindications for transplantation the anti-anginal 
effect may justify use of the procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/s1053-2498(01)00238-8
PMID: 11404175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Neurochirurgie. 2001 May;47(2-3 Pt 2):336-43.

[Hemorrhage after radiosurgery of cerebral arteriovenous malformations].

[Article in French]

Nataf F(1), Moussa R, Merienne L, Ghossoub M, Schlienger M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie, Centre Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, 1, rue Cabanis, 
75674 Paris Cedex 14.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Obliteration is progressive after radiosurgery of 
cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Thus the hemorrhage risk still remains 
until obliteration. Purposes of this study are to appreciate severity of 
post-radiosurgery hemorrhages, actuarial risk of hemorrhage and parameters 
associated with it.
PATIENTS: and method. Over 705 patients treated, 46 (6.5%) had one or several 
hemorrhages. Clinical, anatomic, dosimetric parameters and obliteration rates 
before hemorrhage were studied. Then, actuarial risks per patient and per 
hemorrhage were calculated. Correlations between parameters and risk were 
searched by uni and multivariate analysis by drawing hemorrhage-free survival 
curves (limit-product Kaplan-Meier) and Cox model.
RESULTS: Except one pure ventricular hemorrhage causing death of one patient, 
only parenchymal hemorrhages were associated with morbidity (80% of cases with 
45% of permanent deficits). Overall mortality rate by hemorrhage was 6.5%. 
Overall morbidity rate was 34.8% and 13.6% for permanent deficit. Mean 
obliteration rate before hemorrhage was 25%. Actuarial hemorrhage rate were 
2.98% per patient and 3.24% per hemorrhage. Actuarial rate per patient increased 
from 1.46% first year to 5.95% 4(th) year after radiosurgery. Parameters 
correlated with hemorrhage risk were in univariate analysis size (p=0.01), 
Spetzler and Martin's grade (p<0.001), dose to reference isodose (p=0.03), Dmin 
(p=0.08), intra or paranidal aneurysms (p<0.001), and recoverage (p<0.001). 
After multivariate analysis, only intra or paranidal aneurysms, recovering and 
Dmin were significantly associated with hemorrhage-free survival after RS.
CONCLUSIONS: Post-radiosurgery hemorrhages are often sum of hemorrhage risk 
factors of the cerebral arteriovenous malformation and factors predicting low 
rate of obliteration. They can be in some cases foreseen but rarely avoided.

PMID: 11404714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Cancer Invest. 2001;19(4):340-5. doi: 10.1081/cnv-100103128.

Adjuvant postoperative 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy combined with pelvic 
radiation for rectal cancer: results from an Asian population.

Au E(1), Koo WH, Lee KS, Chua EJ, Soo KC, Seow-Choen F, Low CH, Ng BK, Hoe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center, 11 Hospital Drive, 
Singapore 169610. dmoeau@nccs.com.sg

Prospective randomized clinical trials have shown the effectiveness of combined 
adjuvant 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy and radiotherapy after surgical 
resection of rectal cancer. To assess toxicity of this therapy, prospective data 
were collected from 236 Asian rectal cancer patients treated with combined 
5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy and radiotherapy after surgery. Almost 82% of 
patients completed planned therapy. Grade 3 and 4 diarrhea, stomatitis, and 
granulocytopenia occurred in approximately 18-21% of patients. There were two 
treatment-related deaths from granulocytopenia and sepsis. With median follow-up 
of 3.5 years, median disease-free and overall survival was 75 and 88 months, 
respectively. In conclusion, combined adjuvant 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy 
and radiotherapy after surgical resection of rectal cancer is tolerable in Asian 
patients with moderate toxicity.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-100103128
PMID: 11405173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Psychol Aging. 2001 Jun;16(2):351-6. doi: 10.1037//0882-7974.16.2.351.

Age differences in social preferences among Taiwanese and Mainland Chinese: the 
role of perceived time.

Fung HH(1), Lai P, Ng R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, USA. helene@ualberta.ca

Socioemotional selectivity theory holds that as people recognize the inevitable 
constraint of time imposed by mortality, their social goals change, motivating 
them to limit social contacts to those with whom they are emotionally close. 
This theory was tested among Taiwanese and Mainland Chinese. As predicted, 
results showed that older adults (aged 60-90 years) in both cultures were more 
likely than younger adults (aged 18-30 years) to prefer familiar social partners 
who were most likely to provide emotionally close social interactions. Mainland 
Chinese, who as a group have shorter actuarial life expectancy, were more likely 
to prefer familiar social partners than were Taiwanese. These age and cultural 
differences were eliminated when differences in perceived time were 
statistically controlled for.

DOI: 10.1037//0882-7974.16.2.351
PMID: 11405322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2001 Apr;24(2):275-90. doi: 10.1023/a:1010335505357.

Inhibition of substrate synthesis as a strategy for glycolipid lysosomal storage 
disease therapy.

Platt FM(1), Jeyakumar M, Andersson U, Priestman DA, Dwek RA, Butters TD, Cox 
TM, Lachmann RH, Hollak C, Aerts JM, Van Weely S, Hrebícek M, Moyses C, Gow I, 
Elstein D, Zimran A.

Author information:
(1)Glycobiology Institute, Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, UK.

The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases are caused by mutations 
in the genes encoding the glycohydrolases that catabolize GSLs within lysosomes. 
In these diseases the substrate for the defective enzyme accumulates in the 
lysosome and the stored GSL leads to cellular dysfunction and disease. The 
diseases frequently have a progressive neurodegenerative course. The therapeutic 
options for treating these diseases are relatively limited, and for the majority 
there are no effective therapies. The problem is further compounded by 
difficulties in delivering therapeutic agents to the brain. Most research effort 
to date has focused on strategies for augmenting enzyme levels to compensate for 
the underlying defect. These include bone marrow transplantation (BMT), enzyme 
replacement and gene therapy. An alternative strategy that we have been 
exploring is substrate deprivation. This approach aims to balance the rate of 
GSL synthesis with the impaired rate of GSL breakdown. The imino sugar 
N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ) inhibits the first step in GSL biosynthesis and 
has been used to evaluate this approach. Studies in an asymptomatic mouse model 
of Tay-Sachs disease have shown that substrate deprivation prevents GSL storage 
in the CNS. In a severe neurodegenerative mouse model of Sandhoff disease, 
substrate deprivation delayed the onset of symptoms and disease progression and 
significantly increased life expectancy. Combining NB-DNJ and BMT was found to 
be synergistic in the Sandhoff mouse model. A clinical trial in type I Gaucher 
disease has been undertaken and has shown beneficial effects. Efficacy was 
demonstrated on the basis of significant decreases in liver and spleen volumes, 
gradual but significant improvement in haematological parameters and disease 
activity markers, together with diminished GSL biosynthesis and storage as 
determined by independent biochemical assays. Further trials in type I Gaucher 
disease are in progress; studies are planned in patients with GSL storage in the 
CNS.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010335505357
PMID: 11405346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2001 Apr;30(2):144-7. doi:
10.1054/ijom.2000.0023.

Influence of chemotherapy on endosteal implant survival and success in oral 
cancer patients.

Kovács AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral, Maxillofacial and Plastic Surgery, Johann Wolfgang 
Goethe-University Medical School, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
A.Kovacs@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Little is known about the effect of chemotherapy on the osseointegration and 
survival of endosteal dental implants. In a retrospective study, two groups of 
patients were compared: one group consisting of 30 oral cancer patients received 
postsurgical adjuvant chemotherapy with either cis- or carboplatin and 
5-fluorouracil in three cycles and were treated subsequently with 106 dental 
implants placed in the mandible; the other group consisting of 17 patents 
suffering from oral cancer was prescribed with 54 dental implants placed in the 
mandible after oncological surgery. No patient was treated with radiotherapy. 
Twenty patients in the first group were successfully provided with a prosthetic 
superstructure (mean time of function: 35.8 months) compared to 16 patients in 
the second group (mean time of function: 36.2 months). The observation time was 
10 years. A life-table analysis based on defined success parameters demonstrated 
no significant difference between implant survival in either group. It was 
concluded that chemotherapy with cis- or carboplatin and 5-fluorouracil was not 
detrimental to the survival and success of dental implants in the mandible.

DOI: 10.1054/ijom.2000.0023
PMID: 11405450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Mediators Inflamm. 2001 Apr;10(2):61-7. doi: 10.1080/09629350120054527.

Improvement of nutrient absorption may enhance systemic oxidative stress in 
cystic fibrosis patients.

Shmarina GV(1), Pukhalsky AL, Kokarovtseva SN, Pukhalskaya DA, Kalashnikova EA, 
Kapranov NI, Kashirskaja NJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunogenetics, Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow, 
Russia. vikgor@arstel.ru

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is largely 
dependent on the pulmonary disease severity and progress. Malnutrition may be an 
important complicating factor in active and chronic lung disease.
AIMS: The focus of this study was to investigate several inflammatory markers in 
pancreatic-insufficient CF patients with different enzyme treatment regimens.
METHODS: CF patients with pancreatic insufficiency were examined at a time of 
symptomatic exacerbation of their lung disease. Group A (n = 11) regularly 
received microspheric enzymes. Group B (n = 8) were treated with enzymes during 
the hospitalization period only and demonstrated the presence of malnutrition. 
Inflammatory markers in the sputa (neutrophil elastase activity, interleukin-8 
and tumour necrosis factor-alpha levels) and in the peripheral blood (plasma 
malondialdehyde (MDA), lymphocyte response to PHA, and the cell sensitivity to 
steroid suppression) have been investigated.
RESULTS: During acute lung exacerbation, group B demonstrated reduced levels of 
lymphocyte proliferation. This parameter was normalized after combined 
antibiotic and pancreatic enzyme therapy. Simultaneously, plasma MDA in group B 
markedly increased following treatment. For this group, a significant positive 
linear association between values of plasma MDA and lymphocyte proliferation has 
been observed. For group A, neither the same correlation nor changes in MDA 
levels and lymphocyte proliferation have been found.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that acute lung exacerbation in malnourished CF 
patients may be associated with alteration in T-lymphocyte activity. Adequate 
therapy normalizes lymphocyte function but results in systemic oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1080/09629350120054527
PMCID: PMC1781694
PMID: 11405551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(2):CD002202. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD002202.

Hydroxyurea for sickle cell disease.

Davies S(1), Olujohungbe A.

Author information:
(1)NHS Executive, Department of Health, 40 Eastbourne Terrace, London, UK, W2 
3QR. sdaviet@doh.gov.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Apr 20;4:CD002202.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease is one of the most common inherited diseases 
world wide. It is associated with life long morbidity and a reduced life 
expectancy. Hydroxyurea, a chemotherapeutic drug taken by mouth, raises fetal 
haemoglobin and, as such, is expected to ameliorate some of the clinical 
problems of sickle cell disease.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of hydroxyurea therapy in sickle cell disease 
patients of all types, of any age, regardless of setting.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group specialised register of controlled trials for haemoglobinopathies, which 
comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches, 
hand-searching relevant journals, and hand-searching abstract books of 
conference proceedings. Date of the most recent search(es): November 2000.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials 
comparing the use of oral hydroxyurea for one month or longer with placebo, 
standard therapy or other interventions for the treatment of patients with 
sickle cell disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both reviewers independently assessed trial 
quality and extracted data from the two studies included.
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty trials were found of which two trials, which reported 
results from a total of 324 adults and children were suitable for inclusion in 
the review. From the data provided in the published reports only one study (the 
MSH study to the United States of America) could be analysed. This study showed 
marked differences in favour of hydroxyurea treatment as compared with placebo 
in terms of annual crisis rate, use of transfusions, and life-threatening 
complications (in particular, the acute sickle chest syndrome). No serious 
adverse effects were reported from either study.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: While hydroxyurea appears both effective and safe in the 
severely affected SS adults over a two year period; further studies are required 
to elucidate its role in other patient groups and for other conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002202
PMID: 11406036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2001 Jan;10(1):39-55.

Spiritual dimensions of surgical palliative care.

Krizek TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Ethics Center, The University of South Florida, 
Tampa, Florida, USA.

Death is the most complex of religious issues and suicide is the most complex of 
philosophic issues. Our century has seen a massive technological expansion in 
our ability to prolong life, and unfortunately, to kill with unparalleled 
efficiency. Society has demanded that physicians explore with them whether death 
by suicide is a logical extension of palliative care. For surgeons, these 
profoundly spiritual concerns are, in many ways, beyond our education and 
training and may not be compatible with the current practice of surgery.

PMID: 11406450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Prosthodont. 2001 Mar;10(1):2-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1532-849x.2001.00002.x.

A prospective 5-year study of fixed partial prostheses supported by implants 
with machined and TiO2-blasted surface.

Gotfredsen K(1), Karlsson U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Nørre Alle 20, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, 
Denmark. klg@odont.ku.dk

PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether there was a 
difference between machined and TiO(2)-blasted implants regarding survival rate 
and marginal bone loss during a 5-year observation period.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 133 implants (Astra Tech Dental Implants; 
Astra Tech AB, Mölndal, Sweden) were placed in 50 patients at 6 centers in 4 
Scandinavian countries. Forty-eight implants were installed in the maxilla and 
85 implants in the mandible. A randomization and a stratification were done, so 
that each fixed partial prosthesis was supported by at least 1 machined and 1 
TiO(2)-blasted implant. The implant-supported fixed partial prostheses (ISFPP) 
were fabricated within 2 months after postoperative healing. A total of 52 ISFPP 
(17 maxillary, 35 mandibular) were inserted. The patients were clinically 
examined once a year for 5 years. At the annual follow-up, biological as well as 
technical complications were recorded.
RESULTS: Of the 133 implants placed, 3 were reported as failed after 5 years of 
follow-up, resulting in an overall cumulative survival rate of 97.6%. The 
cumulative implant survival rates were 100% for the TiO(2)-blasted implants and 
95.1% for the machined implants. No significant difference in survival was, 
however, found between the machined and TiO(2)-blasted implants after 5 years. 
The mean marginal bone loss in the maxilla was 0.21 +/- 0.83 mm (SD) for the 
machined implants and 0.51 +/- 1.11 mm (SD) for the TiO(2)-blasted implants 
during the 5-year observation period. In the mandible, the mean marginal loss 
was 0.22 +/- 1.13 mm for the machined implants and 0.52 +/- 1.07 mm for the 
TiO(2)-blasted implants from baseline to the 5-year examination. No significant 
difference in marginal bone loss between the 2 surface groups was found during 
the 5-year observation period.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows good 5-year results with small ISFPP in the 
mandible, as well as in the maxilla. No significant differences were found in 
failure rate and marginal bone loss around implants with a machined rather than 
a TiO(2)-blasted surface. J Prosthodont 2001;10:2-7.

Copyright 2001 by The American College of Prosthodontists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-849x.2001.00002.x
PMID: 11406789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Int J Health Serv. 2001;31(2):323-33. doi: 10.2190/YFXB-E27P-HQDQ-04AM.

Economic growth, income equality, and population health among the Asian Tigers.

Siddiqi A(1), Hertzman C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Social Behavior, Harvard School of Public Health, 
677 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The "Tiger" economies of Southeast Asia provide examples of developing nations 
where economic growth and increasing income equality are compatible and, when 
occurring together, are associated with superior health trends over time. The 
degree of income inequality in the Asian Tigers declined during the period of 
rapid economic growth. Traditionally, economists have viewed economic growth and 
relative parity in income distribution as incompatible, or trade-offs. This 
poses a public policy dilemma, since a reasonable propensity to increase a 
nation's overall economic well-being would mean forsaking measures that increase 
income parity. The Asian Tigers, however, have shown that this need not be 
viewed as a trade-off. Economic growth and a simultaneous increase in income 
equality are possible and, with respect to health outcomes, desirable. The 
authors propose a variety of mechanisms through which income inequality can 
enhance economic growth, and discuss policies in education, agricultural land 
reform, and housing that influence the simultaneous attainment of income 
equality and economic growth.

DOI: 10.2190/YFXB-E27P-HQDQ-04AM
PMID: 11407173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Arthritis Rheum. 2001 Jun;44(6):1234-6. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(200106)44:6<1234::AID-ART213>3.0.CO;2-R.

Premature mortality in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: evolving concepts.

Pincus T, Sokka T, Wolfe F.

Comment on
    Arthritis Rheum. 2001 Jun;44(6):1467-9.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(200106)44:6<1234::AID-ART213>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 11407680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Arthritis Rheum. 2001 Jun;44(6):1467-9. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(200106)44:6<1467::AID-ART243>3.0.CO;2-6.

Recent improvements in survival in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: better 
outcomes or different study designs?

Ward MM(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2001 Jun;44(6):1234-6.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(200106)44:6<1467::AID-ART243>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 11407710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2001 Jun;33(3):285-99. doi: 10.1006/rtph.2001.1476.

Benefit and risk of organic ultraviolet filters.

Nohynek GJ(1), Schaefer H.

Author information:
(1)Centre Charles Zviak, L'Oreal Life Sciences Research, 90, Rue du General 
Roguet, Clichy, 92583, France.

Modern sunscreen products provide broad-spectrum UV protection and may contain 
one or several UV filters. A modern UV filter should be heat and photostable, 
water resistant, nontoxic, and easy to formulate. Identification of a substance 
that meets these criteria is as difficult as discovering a new drug; hundreds of 
new molecules are synthesized and screened before a lead candidate is 
identified. The most important aspect in the development of a new UV filter is 
its safety. In our laboratories, the safety of new ultraviolet filters is 
assessed by an initial in vitro screen including photostability, cytotoxicity, 
photocytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and photogenotoxicity tests. These tests are 
performed in mammalian, yeast, and bacterial cell systems. Skin penetration 
potential is measured in vitro using human skin or, when required by 
regulations, in vivo. Because modern sunscreens are selected on the basis of 
their retention on and in the stratum corneum and are formulated as poorly 
penetrating emulsions, they generally have very low to negligible penetration 
rates. The safety and efficacy of UV filters are regulated and approved by 
national and international health authorities. Safety standards in the European 
Union, United States, or Japan stipulate that new filters pass a stringent 
toxicological safety evaluation prior to approval. The safety dossier of a new 
UV filter resembles that of a new drug and includes acute toxicity, irritation, 
sensitization, phototoxicity, photosensitization, subchronic and chronic 
toxicity, reproductive toxicity, genotoxicity, photogenotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity, and, in the United States, photocarcinogenicity testing. The 
margin of safety of new UV filters for application to humans is estimated by 
comparing the potential human systemic exposure with the no-effect level from in 
vivo toxicity studies. Only substances with a safe toxicological profile and a 
margin of safety of at least 100-fold are approved for human use. Finally, prior 
to marketing, new UV filters undergo stringent human testing to confirm their 
efficacy as well as the absence of irritation, sensitization, photoirritation, 
and photosensitization potential in man. UV filters not only protect against 
acute skin injury, such as sunburn, but also against long-term and chronic skin 
damage, including cellular DNA damage, photoinduced immune suppression, and, by 
extension, skin cancer. The protection provided by modern sunscreens against 
UV-induced skin cancer was shown in animal photocarcinogenicity studies and 
confirmed by numerous in vitro, animal, and human investigations: UV filters 
protect the p53 tumor suppressor gene from damage and prevent UV-induced immune 
suppression. Recent studies suggest that sunscreens protect against precursor 
lesions of skin cancer, such as actinic keratoses. Additional benefits of 
ultraviolet filters include prevention of photodermatoses, such as polymorphic 
light eruption, and, possibly, photoaging. Modern sunscreens are safe for 
children and adults. Percutaneous penetration and irritation rates of topically 
applied substances in children and adults are similar. The principal protective 
measure is to keep children out of the sun and/or to cover them with protective 
clothes; however, sunscreens are a safe and effective and often the only 
feasible defense of children against UV radiation. In conclusion, sunscreens are 
safe protective devices that undergo stringent safety and efficacy evaluation.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/rtph.2001.1476
PMID: 11407932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. BMJ. 2001 Jun 16;322(7300):1481-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.322.7300.1481.

Is there such a thing as a life not worth living?

Farsides B(1), Dunlop RJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Medical Law and Ethics, King's College London, London WC2R 2LS. 
bobbie.farsides@kcl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.322.7300.1481
PMCID: PMC1120530
PMID: 11408312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2001 Jul;91(1):26-32. doi:
10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.26.

Effects of isometric training on the elasticity of human tendon structures in 
vivo.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Ito M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Komaba 
3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The present study aimed to investigate the effect of isometric training on the 
elasticity of human tendon structures. Eight subjects completed 12 wk (4 
days/wk) of isometric training that consisted of unilateral knee extension at 
70% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) for 20 s per set (4 sets/day). Before 
and after training, the elongation of the tendon structures in the vastus 
lateralis muscle was directly measured using ultrasonography while the subjects 
performed ramp isometric knee extension up to MVC. The relationship between the 
estimated muscle force and tendon elongation (L) was fitted to a linear 
regression, the slope of which was defined as stiffness of the tendon 
structures. The training increased significantly the volume (7.6+/-4.3%) and MVC 
torque (33.9+/-14.4%) of quadriceps femoris muscle. The L values at force 
production levels beyond 550 N were significantly shorter after training. The 
stiffness increased significantly from 67.5+/-21.3 to 106.2+/-33.4 N/mm. 
Furthermore, the training significantly increased the rate of torque development 
(35.8 +/- 20.4%) and decreased electromechanical delay (-18.4+/-3.8%). Thus the 
present results indicate that isometric training increases the stiffness and 
Young's modulus of human tendon structures as well as muscle strength and size. 
This change in the tendon structures would be assumed to be an advantage for 
increasing the rate of torque development and shortening the electromechanical 
delay.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.26
PMID: 11408409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2001 Jul;91(1):277-82. doi:
10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.277.

Influences of repetitive muscle contractions with different modes on tendon 
elasticity in vivo.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Komaba 
3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The present study aimed to investigate the effects of repetitive muscle 
contractions on the elasticity of human tendon structures in vivo. Before and 
after each endurance test, the elongation of the tendon and aponeurosis of 
vastus lateralis muscle (L) was directly measured by ultrasonography while the 
subjects performed ramp isometric knee extension up to maximal voluntary 
isometric contraction (MVC). Six male subjects performed muscle endurance tests 
that consisted of knee extension tasks with four different contraction modes: 1) 
50 repetitions of maximal voluntary eccentric action for 3 s with 3 s of 
relaxation (ET1), 2) three sets of 50 repetitions of MVC for 1 s with 3 s of 
relaxation (ET2), 3) 50 repetitions of MVC for 3 s with 3 s of relaxation (ET3), 
and 4) 50 repetitions of 50% MVC for 6 s with 6 s of relaxation (ET4). In ET1 
and ET2, there were no significant differences in L values at any force 
production levels between before and after endurance tests. In the cases of ET3 
and ET4, however, the extent of elongation after the completion of the tests 
tended to be greater. The L values above 330 N in ET3 and 440 N in ET4, 
respectively, were significantly greater after endurance tests than before. 
These results suggested that the repeated longer duration contractions would 
make the tendon structures more compliant and that the changes in the elasticity 
might be not be affected by either muscle action mode or force production level 
but by the duration of action.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.277
PMID: 11408441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2001 Jul;91(1):386-94. doi:
10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.386.

Validity of estimating limb muscle volume by bioelectrical impedance.

Miyatani M(1), Kanehisa H, Masuo Y, Ito M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Tokyo 
153-8902, Japan.

The present study aimed to investigate the validity of estimating muscle volume 
by bioelectrical impedance analysis. Bioelectrical impedance and series 
cross-sectional images of the forearm, upper arm, lower leg, and thigh on the 
right side were determined in 22 healthy young adult men using a specially 
designed bioelectrical impedance acquisition system and magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) method, respectively. The impedance index (L(2)/Z) for every 
segment, calculated as the ratio of segment length squared to the impedance, was 
significantly correlated to the muscle volume measured by MRI, with r = 
0.902-0.976 (P < 0.05). In these relationships, the SE of estimation was 38.4 
cm(3) for the forearm, 40.9 cm(3) for the upper arm, 107.2 cm(3) for the lower 
leg, and 362.3 cm(3) for the thigh. Moreover, isometric torque developed in 
elbow flexion or extension and knee flexion or extension was significantly 
correlated to the L(2)/Z values of the upper arm and thigh, respectively, with 
correlation coefficients of 0.770-0.937 (P < 0.05), which differed 
insignificantly from those (0.799-0.958; P < 0.05) in the corresponding 
relationships with the muscle volume measured by MRI of elbow flexors or 
extensors and knee flexors or extensors. Thus the present study indicates that 
bioelectrical impedance analysis may be useful to predict the muscle volume and 
to investigate possible relations between muscle size and strength capability in 
a limited segment of the upper and lower limbs.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2001.91.1.386
PMID: 11408456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Int J Oncol. 2001 Jul;19(1):97-103. doi: 10.3892/ijo.19.1.97.

Immortalization of human esophageal keratinocytes by E6 and E7 of human 
papillomavirus type 16.

Sashiyama H(1), Shino Y, Kawamata Y, Tomita Y, Ogawa N, Shimada H, Kobayashi S, 
Asano T, Ochiai T, Shirasawa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Virology, Chiba University, Inohana, School of 
Medicine, Chiba 260-8670, Japan. sasiyama@virolo3.m.chiba-u.ac.jp

Transduction of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) E6/E7 into primary culture 
of human esophageal keratinocytes using a recombinant adenovirus prolonged the 
life-span, while untreated cells senesced within 14-16 population doublings 
(PDLs). Up-regulation of telomerase activity and acquisition of serum-resistant 
growth were observed in the esophageal keratinocytes with extended life-span 
between 50 and 100 PDLs, and drastically increased after 100 PDLs. A 
keratinocyte sample with a polymorphism of Pro/Pro at codon 72 of p53 showed 
resistance to HPV16 E6/E7-induced life-span-extension and immortalization, in 
contrast to others with p53 polymorphisms of Arg/Arg or Arg/Pro, which did not. 
The high efficiency of E6/E7-induction by adenovirus vector also revealed the M1 
and M2 stages of keratinocyte immortalization first described in this report.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.19.1.97
PMID: 11408928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Lancet. 2001 Jun 9;357(9271):1837-41. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04955-2.

Control of malaria in Pakistan by applying deltamethrin insecticide to cattle: a 
community-randomised trial.

Rowland M(1), Durrani N, Kenward M, Mohammed N, Urahman H, Hewitt S.

Author information:
(1)HealthNet International, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan. 
mark.rowland@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The standard method of malaria control in south Asia, indoor 
spraying of houses with residual insecticide, is becoming prohibitively 
expensive to implement and new approaches are needed. Since the region's vector 
mosquitoes feed predominantly on domestic animals and only secondarily on human 
beings, to apply insecticide to surfaces of cattle instead might be more 
costeffective. We aimed to investigate whether domestic livestock treated with 
deltamethrin (applied by a sponging method) would prove toxic to mosquitoes and 
therefore aid in malaria control.
METHODS: Six Afghan refugee settlements in Pakistan were randomly assigned to 
one of two groups. In one group livestock were treated with deltamethrin during 
the malaria transmission seasons of 1995 and 1997, whereas in the other group 
livestock were treated during the 1996 season. Malaria was monitored by passive 
case detection at village clinics and by cross-sectional surveillance. 
Mosquitoes were also monitored.
FINDINGS: According to clinic records the incidence of malaria caused by 
Plasmodium falciparum decreased by 56% (95% CI 14-78%) and P vivax by 31% 
(5-50%) in livestock-treated villages. Cross-sectional surveys showed comparable 
decreases in parasite prevalence. The density and life expectancy of Anopheles 
stephensi and A culicifacies populations were reduced in treated villages. The 
efficacy of livestock treatment was similar to that of indoor spraying but 
campaign costs were 80% less. When applied in a highly endemic settlement, the 
incidence of falciparum malaria decreased from 280 episodes per 1000 
person-years to nine episodes per 1000 person-years.
INTERPRETATIONS: Insecticide treatment of livestock is a cost-effective and 
promising alternative for south Asia and other regions where primary vectors are 
zoophilic.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04955-2
PMID: 11410192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Med Eng Phys. 2001 Apr;23(3):147-53. doi: 10.1016/s1350-4533(01)00042-x.

Physics and engineering: milestones in medicine.

Wells PN(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Physics and Engineering Research in Medicine, University of 
Bristol, Bristol General Hospital, Guinea Street, BS1 6SY, Bristol, UK. 
peter.wells@bristol.ac.uk

The history of the development of the applications of physics and engineering in 
medicine provides an insight into contemporary practice and can help to mould 
the future. Physics and engineering form a continuum, and, in the present 
context, engineering is indistinguishable from applied physics. The modern 
scientific era, which extends over 500 years, is characterised by numerous 
significant developments: for example, the Nobel prizes which most closely 
relate to physics and engineering in medicine were for X-rays and radioactivity, 
the electrocardiogram, the scattering of radiation, the cyclotron, nuclear 
magnetic resonance, the transistor, radioimmunoassay and computed tomography; 
and a medical physicist has received the Peace Prize. The origins and 
development of nuclear medicine, magnetic resonance and ultrasonic imaging are 
representative of the whole field. Physics and engineering rank alongside other 
medical sciences and underpin many of their applications. In what is now the 
developed world, human life expectancy has increased dramatically, but the costs 
and risks of modern medicine have meanwhile become a huge problem. The growing 
divergence of rich and poor is now arguably the greatest challenge. The future 
cannot be predicted, but the potential of physics and engineering to improve 
medicine has never been greater.

DOI: 10.1016/s1350-4533(01)00042-x
PMID: 11410379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Public Health Rev. 2000;28(1-4):159-62.

Health economic analysis of micronutrient supplementation: the World Bank 
perspective.

Javitt JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA.

PMID: 11411269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Pediatr Clin North Am. 2001 Jun;48(3):715-49. doi: 
10.1016/s0031-3955(05)70336-9.

Care of the potential pediatric organ donor.

Lutz-Dettinger N(1), de Jaeger A, Kerremans I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Intensive Care, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, 
Belgium. nld@yucom.be

Although all of this information may create the impression that caring for a 
potential organ donor is an exceedingly complex task, in the authors' 
experience, this often is not true, and much energy can--and should--be devoted 
to the care of the bereaved family. Of crucial importance are the early 
recognition of brain death and the consequent radical switch of the treatment 
goal from preservation of the patient's brain and life to preservation of organs 
for the lives of others. Care for the donor is the natural extension of care for 
a critically ill or injured patient. During the foregoing discussion, the 
authors had to stress the absence of sound evidence on many points. Because many 
reports originate from transplant centers dedicated to a specific organ, gaining 
a comprehensive view on management options in the ICU further is hampered. Thus, 
this situation leaves another field in which investigations originating from 
pediatric intensivists could provide evidence urgently needed to make optimal 
choices. The next decade should see the thyroid hormone controversy solved by at 
least one controlled prospective study and the differential applicability of 
inotropic, vasoactive, or fluid-centered strategies. It seems self-evident that 
only graft survival and related parameters can form adequate endpoints for 
future studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-3955(05)70336-9
PMID: 11411302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Neural Netw. 2001 May;14(4-5):551-73. doi: 10.1016/s0893-6080(01)00018-1.

Life-long learning cell structures--continuously learning without catastrophic 
interference.

Hamker FH(1).

Author information:
(1)California Institute of Technology, Division of Biology, Pasadena, CA 91125, 
USA.

As an extension of on-line learning, life-long learning challenges a system 
which is exposed to patterns from a changing environment during its entire 
lifespan. An autonomous system should not only integrate new knowledge on-line 
into its memory, but also preserve the knowledge learned by previous 
interactions. Thus, life-long learning implies the fundamental 
Stability-Plasticity Dilemma, which addresses the problem of learning new 
patterns without forgetting old prototype patterns. We propose an extension to 
the known Cell Structures, growing Radial Basis Function-like networks, that 
enables them to learn their number of nodes needed to solve a current task and 
to dynamically adapt the learning rate of each node separately. As shown in 
several simulations, the resulting Life-long Learning Cell Structures posses the 
major characteristics needed to cope with the Stability-Plasticity Dilemma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0893-6080(01)00018-1
PMID: 11411637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Anal Biochem. 2001 Jul 1;294(1):19-26. doi: 10.1006/abio.2001.5131.

A novel reagentless sensing system for measuring glucose based on the 
galactose/glucose-binding protein.

Salins LL(1), Ware RA, Ensor CM, Daunert S.

Collaborators: Daunert S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, 
40506-0055, USA.
(2)U KY, Lexington

The galactose/glucose-binding protein (GBP) is synthesized in the cytoplasm of 
Escherichia coli in a precursor form and exported into the periplasmic space 
upon cleavage of a 23-amino-acid leader sequence. GBP binds galactose and 
glucose in a highly specific manner. The ligand induces a hinge motion in GBP 
and the resultant protein conformational change constitutes the basis of the 
sensing system. The mglB gene, which codes for GBP, was isolated from the 
chromosome of E. coli using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Since wild-type 
GBP lacks cysteines in its structure, introducing this amino acid by 
site-directed mutagenesis ensures single-label attachment at specific sites with 
a sulfhydro-specific fluorescent probe. Site-directed mutagenesis by overlap 
extension PCR was performed to prepare three different mutants to introduce a 
single cysteine residue at positions 148, 152, and 182. Since these residues are 
not involved in ligand binding and since they are located at the edge of the 
binding cleft, they experience a significant change in environment upon binding 
of galactose or glucose. The sensing system strategy is based on the 
fluorescence changes of the probe as the protein undergoes a structural change 
on binding. In this work a reagentless sensing system has been rationally 
designed that can detect submicromolar concentrations of glucose. The 
calibration plots have a linear working range of three orders of magnitude. 
Although the system can sense galactose as well, this epimer is not a potential 
interfering substance since its concentration in blood is negligible.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.2001.5131
PMID: 11412001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1096-105. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00009.

Prognostic disclosure to patients with cancer near the end of life.

Lamont EB(1), Christakis NA.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago Medical Center, 5841 South Maryland Avenue, MC 2007, 
Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1142-3.
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9.

BACKGROUND: Patients' understanding of their prognosis informs numerous medical 
and nonmedical decisions, but patients with cancer and their physicians often 
have disparate prognostic expectations.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether physician behavior might contribute to the 
disparity between patients' and physicians' prognostic expectations.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Five hospices in Chicago, Illinois.
PATIENTS: 326 patients with cancer.
INTERVENTION: Physicians formulated survival estimates and also indicated the 
survival estimates that they would communicate to their patients if the patients 
insisted.
MEASUREMENTS: Comparison of the formulated and communicated prognoses.
RESULTS: For 300 of 311 evaluable patients (96.5%), physicians were able to 
formulate prognoses. Physicians reported that they would not communicate any 
survival estimate 22.7% (95% CI, 17.9% to 27.4%) of the time, would communicate 
the same survival estimate they formulated 37% (CI, 31.5% to 42.5%) of the time, 
and would communicate a survival estimate different from the one they formulated 
40.3% (CI, 34.8% to 45.9%) of the time. Of the discrepant survival estimates, 
most (70.2%) were optimistically discrepant. Multivariate analysis revealed that 
older patients were more likely to receive frank survival estimates, that the 
most experienced physicians and the physicians who were least confident about 
their prognoses were more likely to favor no disclosure over frank disclosure, 
and that female physicians were less likely to favor frank disclosure over 
pessimistically discrepant disclosure.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians reported that even if patients with cancer requested 
survival estimates, they would provide a frank estimate only 37% of the time and 
would provide no estimate, a conscious overestimate, or a conscious 
underestimate most of the time (63%). This pattern may contribute to the 
observed disparities between physicians' and patients' estimates of survival.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00009
PMID: 11412049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1124-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00013.

Methodologic pitfalls in the determination of genetic anticipation: the case of 
Crohn disease.

Picco MF(1), Goodman S, Reed J, Bayless TM.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

