BACKGROUND: The term genetic anticipation is used when genetically transmitted 
disease manifests at increasingly younger ages with each succeeding generation: 
that is, if the offspring of patients develop the disease, they will tend to do 
so at an earlier age than their parents. In some monogenetic disorders, genetic 
anticipation has a biological basis in expanded genetic triplet repeats; 
however, some have claimed that it occurs in polygenic disorders, such as Crohn 
disease, in which its mechanism cannot be explained.
OBJECTIVE: To show how apparent changes in age at diagnosis of Crohn disease 
between generations, which could suggest genetic anticipation, can be an 
artifact of inadequate analysis based on age at diagnosis in cohorts that have 
not been followed for a sufficiently long time.
DESIGN: Comparison of ages at diagnosis of Crohn disease among different birth 
cohorts, before and after adjustment for observation time.
SETTING: Meyerhoff Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Johns Hopkins 
Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland.
PATIENTS: 928 consecutive outpatients with Crohn disease.
MEASUREMENTS: Trends in age at diagnosis of Crohn disease among birth cohorts 
were determined by calculating Pearson correlation coefficients and performing 
Kaplan-Meyer analysis before and after adjustment for observation time. 
Adjustment for observation time was performed by ensuring that the time during 
which all included patients were at risk for Crohn disease was equal and that 
all patients had developed disease by the end of the risk period.
RESULTS: Mean age at diagnosis decreased by approximately 5 years with each 
subsequent 10-year birth cohort on the basis of crude cross-sectional data that 
could suggest genetic anticipation between generations. However, after 
adjustment for observation time, the age at diagnosis decreased minimally, if at 
all, with each successive generation.
CONCLUSIONS: Apparent genetic anticipation can be explained by observational 
biases without invoking any additional genetic influences. Claims for genetic 
anticipation must be based on methods that properly account for the duration of 
observation in all persons being studied.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00013
PMID: 11412053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1142-3. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00015.

Truth in the most optimistic way.

Ubel PA.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1096-105.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00015
PMID: 11412055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Med Clin (Barc). 2001 Apr 21;116(14):521-5. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(01)71893-3.

[Mortality and quality of life of patients beyond 65 years one year after ICU 
discharge].

[Article in Spanish]

García Lizana F(1), Manzano Alonso JL, Saavedra Santana P.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital Nuestra Señora del Pino, Las Palmas de 
Gran Canaria. fglizana@idenet.com

BACKGROUND: Intensive care in elderly patients is a subject of controversy, 
because they generally present a high rate of mortality and short expectation of 
life. Due to the increasing life expectancy, more elderly patients will be 
treated in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with an increasing consume of resources. 
The present study considers the mortality and quality of life (QOL) of patients 
beyond 65 years after ICU, and theirs predictors.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Retrospective study of patients >= 65 years admitted in 
multidisciplinaire ICU. Mortality and QOL (with modified EuroQOL Instrument) one 
year after discharge were studied. To determine mortality and QOL one year 
independent predicting factors, multiple logistic regression models were used.
RESULTS: Of 313 patients studied, 95 (30%) died in ICU, 32 (10%) in hospital and 
34 (11%) died after discharge. The independent predicting factors of mortality 
one year after ICU discharge were: organ failure (p < 0.000; odds ratio [OR], 
2.9), cardiac surgery (p < 0.0000; OR, 0.15) and respiratory disease (p < 0.01; 
OR, 2.8). Of the 152 surviving patients, 21% got worse their previous QOL and 
only 17% were severely discapitated. The independent predicting factors of QOL 
one year after ICU discharge were: prior QOL (p < 0.0002; OR, 10.2) and age (p < 
0.002; OR, 0.09).
CONCLUSION: Despite the high one year after ICU discharge mortality rate (51%), 
83% of the survivors were able to live independently. Due to dependence between 
mortality and multiorganic failure during ICU stay and not age, this latter 
cannot be the determining factor of the care level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(01)71893-3
PMID: 11412617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. FEBS Lett. 2001 Jun 8;498(2-3):183-6. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02457-7.

Oxidative stress, aging and longevity in Drosophila melanogaster.

Le Bourg E(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Ethologie et Cognition Animale, E.R.S. C.N.R.S. no 2382, 
Université Paul-Sabatier, 118 route de Narbonne, F-31062 Cedex 4, Toulouse, 
France. lebourg@cict.fr

Free radicals produced during normal metabolism cause damage to macromolecules. 
The free radical theory of aging proposes that the organism is unable to repair 
all of them and that, with time, unrepaired damages accumulate and put the 
organism at risk: in other words, free radicals provoke aging and death. This 
article reviews both the results of adding antioxidants to food on longevity in 
Drosophila melanogaster, as well as the studies on antioxidant enzymes 
(inactivation in vivo, null mutants, overexpression). It is concluded that 
antioxidant enzymes are probably poorly connected to the normal aging process, 
but they allow the organism to cope with stressful conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02457-7
PMID: 11412853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Jul;55(7):494-9. doi:
10.1136/jech.55.7.494.

Change in male and female life expectancy by social class: decomposition by age 
and cause of death in Finland 1971-95.

Martikainen P(1), Valkonen T, Martelin T.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Department of Sociology, University of Helsinki, 
Finland. pekka@public-health.ucl.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To quantify the contribution of different causes of death and 
age groups for trends in life expectancy for two major social classes.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Prospective study of mortality in Finland among all over 35 
year old men and women. Baseline social class (manual/non-manual) was from the 
1970, 1975, 1980, 1985 and 1990 census records, and follow up was by 
computerised record linkage to death certificates for 1971-1995.
MAIN RESULTS: From the early 1970s to the early 1990s life expectancy at age 35 
increased by about five and four years among Finnish men and women respectively, 
with largest gains among 55-74 year old men and 65-84 year old women. Life 
expectancy increase was 5.1 years among non-manual and 3.8 years among manual 
men; corresponding figures for women were 3.6 and 3.0 years. In the 1980s, when 
differences in life expectancy increased most rapidly, decline in cardiovascular 
disease mortality was more rapid in the non-manual than the manual class. 
Furthermore, increasing mortality for alcohol associated causes, "other 
diseases", and accidents and violence were most prominent in the manual class.
CONCLUSIONS: Explanations of increasing social inequalities in mortality that 
are based on one underlying factor are difficult to reconcile with the 
variability in the cause specific trends in social inequalities in mortality. 
The contribution of older ages to social inequalities in mortality should be 
more widely recognised.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.7.494
PMCID: PMC1731929
PMID: 11413179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2000 Dec;31(4):636-41.

Assessment of dengue hemorrhagic fever in Myanmar.

Cho-Min-Naing(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Yangon, Myanmar.

This study assesses the burden of dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and 
effectiveness of an intervention package in Myanmar. Disability adjusted life 
years (DALYs) lost for fatal and non-fatal DHF cases and DALYs averted due to 
intervention for DHF from 1970-1997 were estimated. The data are based on 
reported cases and deaths from DHF extracted from annual reports of the Myanmar 
vector borne disease control program. Sensitivity analyses were performed for 
robustness of conclusions. DALYs lost from both fatal and non-fatal DHF cases in 
Myanmar were estimated as 83.83 DALYs per year per million population (range = 
83.33-86.32) for the period 1970-1997. DALYs averted from DHF due to 
intervention were estimated as 134 DALYs per year per million population (range 
= 47-159). The burden of DHF in Myanmar for the selected year 1990 was 91.3 
DALYs per year per million population (range = 90.1-96.5). A comparison was made 
with China, India and other Asian countries based on information provided by a 
World Bank study.

PMID: 11414403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Biometrics. 2001 Jun;57(2):376-82. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00376.x.

Joint regression analysis of survival and quality-adjusted survival.

Fine JP(1), Gelber RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706, USA. 
fine@biostat.wisc.edu

In this paper, a semiparametric bivariate linear regression model for survival 
and quality-adjusted survival is investigated. Even with a parametric 
specification for the joint, distribution, maximum likelihood is not applicable 
because of induced informative censoring. We propose inference procedures based 
on estimating functions. The estimators are consistent and asymptotically 
normal. Hypothesis tests and confidence intervals may be constructed with 
easy-to-implement resampling techniques. Simultaneous regression modeling of 
survival and quality-adjusted survival has not been studied formally. Our 
methodology gives parameter estimates that are highly interpretable in the 
context of a cost-effectiveness analysis. The usefulness of the proposal is 
illustrated with a breast cancer dataset.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00376.x
PMID: 11414559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 1997 Jul;12(5):325-330. doi: 
10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00011-9.

Lumbar mobility in former élite male weight-lifters, soccer players, 
long-distance runners and shooters.

Räty HP(1), Battié MC, Videman T, Sarna S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the long-term effects of different loading conditions 
in sports and work on lumbar mobility. DESIGN: Factors associated with lumbar 
mobility were sought by examining sports experience, occupational history, back 
pain history, anthropometric characteristics, and lumbar magnetic resonance 
images in 114 former Finnish male élite athletes: 30 soccer players, 29 
weight-lifters, 27 long-distance runners, and 28 shooters, aged 45-68 yr. 
BACKGROUND: Back pain and aging reduce spinal mobility, whereas some sports may 
increase it. Little is known about the effects of common loading conditions 
found in work and sports, that do not require extremes of spinal motion on 
lumbar mobility later in life. METHODS: Sports and occupational histories were 
obtained from a standardized interview. Lumbar mobility was measured by the 
flexicurve method. Disc degeneration was evaluated from lumbar magnetic 
resonance images. The results were analysed with analysis of variance and 
covariance and multiple regression models. RESULTS: The athlete groups did not 
differ significantly in lumbar sagittal mobility. Higher body-mass index was 
associated with less flexion, reduced disc height with less extension, as was a 
high lifetime number of low back pain episodes. Occupations characterized by 
varying work postures and light lifting were associated with greater mobility, 
and heavy work with lesser mobility. CONCLUSIONS: Participation in sports with 
clearly different loading patterns, that do not emphasize extremes of spinal 
range of motion, do not appear to lead to significant differences in back 
mobility in later adulthood, but occupational loading factors and disc height 
narrowing appear to influence spinal mobility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00011-9
PMID: 11415741


165. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 1997 Oct;12(7-8):452-460. doi: 
10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00056-9.

A method to determine joint moments and force distributions in the shoulders 
during ceiling work -- a study on house painters.

Lindbeck L(1), Karlsson D, Kihlberg S, Kjellberg K, Rabenius K, Stenlund B, 
Tollqvist J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ergonomics, National Institute for Working Life, S-171 84 
Solna, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to propose and apply a method to study 
the net load and the force distribution in the shoulder during sanding of a 
ceiling. DESIGN: Sanding of a ceiling was studied in an experimental set-up. 
BACKGROUND: Among painters there is a high frequency of neck and shoulder 
complaints and some particularly strenuous tasks are sanding and painting of 
ceilings with tools attached to extension handles. METHODS: A biomechanical 
model predicted the load pattern in the shoulder from measured external forces 
and body postures. Measurements were made on 40 subjects by means of a force 
plate, an extension handle supplied with two pairs of strain gauges and a load 
cell, and a 3D optoelectronic measurement system. RESULTS: Work techniques may 
seem to be similar at visual inspection, but nevertheless produce quite 
different loading patterns in the shoulder. The observed work techniques varied 
largely among the subjects but the intra-individual variability was rather 
small. CONCLUSIONS: The study showed that the proposed method can be used to 
evaluate loads and force distribution in the shoulder. Since the method involves 
the use of a biomechanical model that can scarcely be validated, results must be 
interpreted cautiously.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00056-9
PMID: 11415755


166. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 1998 Mar;13(2):112-120. doi: 
10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00053-3.

The mechanical properties of human alar and transverse ligaments at slow and 
fast extension rates.

Panjabi MM(1), Crisco JJ 3rd, Lydon C, Dvorak J.

Author information:
(1)Biomechanics Laboratory, Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, Yale 
University, School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To study biomechanics and failure characteristics of the alar and 
transverse ligaments of the upper cervical spine at two different extension 
rates. DESIGN. IN VITRO: biomechanical study using human and alar and transverse 
ligament specimens. BACKGROUND: Previous studies of these ligaments have been at 
relatively slow extension rates, even though the real life trauma occurs at 
significantly higher extension rates. METHODS: Fresh human cadaveric alar and 
transverse ligaments were subjected to slow (0.1 mm/s) and then fast (920 mm/s) 
extension rates. Force and elongation curves were recorded during the testing, 
and several biomechanical parameters were computed and compared. First the 
specimen was stretched at the slow extension rate up to 70 N for the alar 
ligament and 140 N for the transverse ligament. Then the specimens were 
stretched until failure at the fast extension rate. RESULTS: Average initial 
lengths of the alar and transverse ligaments were 11.2 and 18.0 mm, 
respectively. At 70 N, the average alar ligament strain decreased from 16.4 to 
0.3%, the stiffness increased from 80 to 2316 N/mm and the energy absorbed 
decreased from 47.4 to 1.3 Nmm, as the extension rate increased from the slow to 
the fast. At failure, the average strain, force and energy absorbed at the fast 
extension rate were respectively 3.1%, 367 N and 123 Nmm. For the transverse 
ligament at 140 N, the strain decreased from 12.5 to 0.6%, the stiffness 
increased from 141 to 1472 N/mm, and the energy absorbed decreased from 96.1 to 
7.6 Nmm as the extension rate went from slow to the fast. At failure, strain, 
force and energy absorbed for the transverse ligament at the fast extension rate 
were, respectively, 2.3% and 436 N and 101 Nmm respectively. CONCLUSION: Within 
the physiological limits, the strain and energy absorbed decreased to less than 
one tenth, while the stiffness increased to greater than ten times as the 
extension rate increased, for both the alar and transverse ligaments. When 
failed at the faster rate, the alar ligament, although weaker of the two, 
absorbed greater energy to failure because of its higher failure strain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-0033(97)00053-3
PMID: 11415778


167. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Jun;30(3):501-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/30.3.501.

Measuring the local burden of disease. A study of years of life lost in 
sub-Saharan Africa.

Würthwein R(1), Gbangou A, Sauerborn R, Schmidt CM.

Author information:
(1)Alfred Weber-Institute, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: An effective health policy necessitates a reliable characterization 
of the burden of disease (BOD) by cause. The Global Burden of Disease Study 
(GBDS) aims to deliver this information. For sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) in 
particular, the GBDS relies on extrapolations and expert guesses. Its results 
lack validation by locally measured epidemiological data.
METHODS: This study presents locally measured BOD data for a health district in 
Burkina Faso and compares them to the results of the GBDS for SSA. As BOD 
indicator, standard years of life lost (age-weighted YLL, discounted with a 
discount rate of 3%) are used as proposed by the GBDS. To investigate the 
influence of different age and time preference weights on our results, the BOD 
pattern is again estimated using, first, YLL with no discounting and no 
age-weighting, and, second, mortality figures.
RESULTS: Our data exhibit the same qualitative BOD pattern as the GBDS results 
regarding age and gender. We estimated that 53.9% of the BOD is carried by men, 
whereas the GBDS reported this share to be 53.2%. The ranking of diseases by BOD 
share, though, differs substantially. Malaria, diarrhoeal diseases and lower 
respiratory infections occupy the first three ranks in our study and in the 
GBDS, only differing in their respective order. Protein-energy malnutrition, 
bacterial meningitis and intestinal nematode infections occupy ranks 5, 6 and 7 
in Nouna but ranks 15, 27 and 38 in the GBDS. The results are not sensitive to 
the different age and time preference weights used. Specifically, the choice of 
parameters matters less than the choice of indicator.
CONCLUSIONS: Local health policy should rather be based on local BOD measurement 
instead of relying on extrapolations that might not represent the true BOD 
structure by cause.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.3.501
PMID: 11416072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Jun;30(3):571-8; discussion 578-9. doi: 
10.1093/ije/30.3.571.

Should programmes for community-level meningococcal vaccination be considered in 
Australia? An economic evaluation.

Skull SA(1), Butler JR, Robinson P, Carnie J.

Author information:
(1)Victorian Infectious Diseases Service, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, 
Victoria, 3050 Australia. sue.skull@mh.org.au

BACKGROUND: Disease due to serogroup C Neisseria meningitidis is 
life-threatening and potentially preventable by vaccination. In 1999, the UK 
instigated mass vaccination after a sustained increase in serogroup C 
meningococcal disease. In the same year, Victoria, Australia experienced a 
similar change in disease epidemiology. It is timely to undertake an economic 
evaluation of options for community vaccination in Australia based on local 
data.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses of three options for use 
of polysaccharide vaccine were undertaken for a hypothetical population aged 
15--19 years. Baseline analyses assumed 5 years' duration of vaccine protection 
following a single year of programme implementation. Sensitivity analyses of key 
variables were performed, including vaccine coverage and effectiveness, case 
fatality rate and the discount rate. Outcomes included the number of people 
vaccinated, cases averted, life-years saved and disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALY) averted. Cost-benefit analysis used lost earnings avoided as a measure of 
vaccination benefit.
RESULTS: Vaccination of people aged 15--19 years in a defined population with a 
high rate of disease was the most cost-effective option. Compared with no 
vaccination and assuming 5 years' duration of protection and exclusion of direct 
cost savings, this resulted in a discounted cost per life-year saved of $23,623, 
a cost per DALY avoided of $21,097 and benefits exceeding costs in discounted 
terms. The 'break-even' incidence rate for this option with exclusion of direct 
cost savings was 14.0/100,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Community use of polysaccharide vaccination may be cost effective 
in Australia under certain conditions. Economic evidence favours use of 
vaccination in well-defined populations with a high rate of disease. Policy 
decision-making also requires consideration of non-economic factors, including 
feasibility of implementation and risk perception by the community.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.3.571
PMID: 11416085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1994 Mar;3(2):8-19.

Nutrition and the Aging Process: A Population Study.

Kesteloot HE(1), Sasaki S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, K.U. Leuven, Belgium.

Highly significant correlations exist in the age range 35 to 84 years between 
log mortality from all causes and age, obtained from 33 countries (mean r equals 
0.999 in men and 0.997 in women). Populations with a high life expectancy are 
characterized by a low intercept and a high slope of the equation between log 
mortality and age. The slope and intercept of the equation obtained from 
different countries are highly intercorrelated, pointing to a maximum life 
expectancy at the population level of about 104 years in men and 108 years in 
women. The slope of the equation between log mortality and age can be considered 
as an expression of the resistance against aging of a given population. 
Significant positive correlations exist between the level of saturated fat 
intake and the determinants of mortality at the population level. These 
correlations are more evident in men compared with women. The results offer 
evidence for a detrimental influence of saturated fat on the aging process in 
populations.

PMID: 11416305


170. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1994 May;3(3):13-19.

Health and Social Consequences of Prolonging Life, With Special Reference To 
Cardiovascular Diseases: The Italian Situation.

Menotti A(1), Giampaoli S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanita, 
Rome, Italy.

During the last century, the reduction of birth and all-cause mortality rates 
have resulted in an increase in the life expectancy and the proportion of the 
elderly population in many countries. For example, elderly women represent more 
than 16% and elderly men comprise more than 12% of the population in Italy. The 
health consequences of these demographic shifts in population is important, 
because older people experience reductions in some physiologic functions and in 
increased incidence of chronic, mainly cardiovascular, diseases. Data derived 
from a survey of men between the ages of 71 and 91 years, who are the survivors 
of the original rural samples of the Italian section of the Seven Countries 
Study, show the large contribution of cardiovascular diseases to the long list 
of chronic conditions. The indicators of self-sufficiency, dementia, and of the 
self-perception of poor health proved much more common among subjects with 
cardiovascular diseases than in those with other chronic conditions.

PMID: 11416309


171. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1995 Nov;4(6):8-16.

Open Heart Surgery in Octogenarians: A Review.

Deviri E(1), Merin G, Medalion B, Borman JB.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Hadassah University Hospital and Bikur 
Cholim Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

Until fairly recently, cardiac surgery was controversial in octogenarians. With 
the improvement of life quality and health services, the number of octogenarians 
in the population is steadily increasing. Furthermore, the improvement of 
surgical techniques and perioperative care permit safer cardiac surgery in this 
age group. Surgery is beneficial especially for patients undergoing coronary 
revascularization (early mortality rate, 0% to 12%) or isolated valve surgery 
(early mortality rate, 1.8% to 20%). Great caution should be exercised when 
considering candidates for combined coronary and valvular or multiple valve 
surgery as mortality is much higher in this group. Overall, the operative course 
in the very elderly is more complicated and is associated with various 
postoperative complications in 57% to 97% of the patients, which is reflected in 
longer postoperative hospitalization-an average of 10-19 days. Nevertheless, the 
5-year survival in these patients is 47% to 71%. With proper selection of 
patients, carefully planned surgery, and meticulous postoperative care 
octogenarians can enjoy prolonged life expectancy and improved quality of life 
following open heart surgery.

PMID: 11416351


172. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1998 Nov;7(6):10-16.

Diagnosis and Treatment of Systolic Heart Failure in the Elderly.

Frishman WH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York Medical College/Westchester Medical Center, 
Valhalla, NY.

Appropriate therapy of systolic LV dysfunction in the elderly depends on the 
stage of the disease process. Evidence of systolic dysfunction is best detected 
by clinical assessment and echocardiographic exam. While one seeks to define and 
treat the factors that initiated the process, one also attempts to reduce 
symptoms and prolong life. Therefore, with initial damage (e.g., following a 
large myocardial infarction), ACE inhibition or angiotensin II receptor blockade 
is indicated. Ã -Adrenergic receptor blockade is also indicated at this stage 
because of mortality reduction. As failure progresses to more symptomatic 
phases, Ã -blockers also appear along with ACE inhibition. Once symptoms 
increase and peripheral edema and central congestion occur, loop diuretics 
become useful to maintain dry weight. In order to prevent further myocardial 
cell loss, other measures, such as cessation of smoking and treatment of 
hypertension, are essential. Digitalis glycosides, especially in modest doses, 
are indicated when NYHA Class II and III symptoms occur. Surgical approaches, 
such as coronary revascularization, may be performed to improve LV function in 
ischemic disease. Therapy of heart failure seeks the reversal or attenuation of 
the process that initiated the syndrome, while treating the patient to relieve 
symptoms and prolong life. Even in very late stages of the disease, relief of 
symptoms can now be accomplished with modest gains in life expectancy.

PMID: 11416476


173. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1998 Nov;7(6):56-59.

Antiarrhythmic Drug Therapy of Ventricular Tachycardia in the Elderly: Lessons 
From Clinical Trials.

Singh SN(1).

Author information:
(1)The VA and Georgetown University Medical Centers, Washington, DC.

Life expectancy is increasing even though life span is fixed. There will be 
almost 35 million Americans over 65 years of age in the year 2030. CAD will 
account for almost 80% of the deaths in the population with almost 50% of such 
deaths classified as sudden. Ventricular arrhythmias increase with age and have 
been shown to be independent markers for premature cardiac death. Therefore, 
many trials involving the use of antiarrhythmics have been performed, hoping to 
show an improvement in overall survival. Unfortunately, some of the classical 
antiarrhythmic agents despite markedly suppressing the arrhythmias, have been 
shown to be harmful or of no benefit. The use of b-blockers, amiodarone, 
aspirin, and ACE inhibitors show some potential for benefit in this high risk 
patient population. The implantable devices are superior to antiarrhythmics in 
survivors of cardiac arrest.

PMID: 11416481


174. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 1999 Mar;8(2):63-70.

Resistance Exercise in the Elderly Person with Cardiovascular Disease.

Braith RW(1), Vincent KR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Exercise Science, College of Health and Human Performance, College 
of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville FL.

Elderly cardiovascular disease patients are not aggressively referred to cardiac 
rehabilitation programs due to concerns regarding orthopedic fragility, 
hemodynamic risk, and life expectancy. However, there is a growing consensus 
that older cardiovascular patients enrolled in rehabilitation programs will 
derive the same magnitude of improvement in functional capacity as their younger 
counterparts. Further, resistance exercise training may be necessary, as a part 
of a comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation program, to elicit optimal benefits in 
elderly cardiovascular patients. In this article, we briefly review orthopedic 
and hemodynamic risks associated with resistance training, the efficacy of 
resistance training, and the recommended guidelines for resistance exercise 
prescription. (c)1999 by CVRR, Inc.

PMID: 11416492


175. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2001 Jun;24(5):327-30. doi: 
10.1067/mmt.2001.115265.

Errors in precise examiner head placement during cervical range-of-motion 
measurements.

Chen J(1), Lantz CA, Solinger AB.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Life Chiropractic College West, Hayward, Calif, USA. 
ChenJ@ohsu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To quantify errors associated with examiner-assisted neutral head 
placement in cervical range of motion measurements in normal subjects and to 
investigate the influence of these errors on range of motion measurements.
DESIGN: Repeated-measures design with cervical range of motion and errors in 
placement measured in 20 volunteers with no symptoms with the OSI CA-6000.
METHODS: Examiner placement of head position was achieved with inclinometers and 
triangulation. Subjects estimated pain experienced during measurements with 
numeric pain scales. Angular data around 3 axes were analyzed with descriptive 
statistics. Possible correlations between errors and other variables were 
investigated.
RESULTS: Drift, defined as displacement from original head positioning at first 
data acquisition and before initiation of motion, was negligible (+/-0.8 degrees 
). Standard errors in neutral head placement ranged from 1.0 degrees in axial 
rotation to 3.2 degrees in flexion/extension. Within-trial variability of 
neutral position did not correlate with between-trial differences in ranges of 
motion.
CONCLUSION: Head position errors were not the primary sources of variability for 
between-trial measurements of cervical range of motion. The largest errors were 
in flexion/extension, and least, in axial rotation. Neutral position errors up 
to approximately 5 degrees for lateral bending, 3 degrees for rotation, and 9 
degrees for flexion and extension fall within 95% CI and are the recommended 
lower limits for significant changes in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1067/mmt.2001.115265
PMID: 11416822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Int J Impot Res. 2000 Dec;12(6):305-11. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900622.

Epidemiology of erectile dysfunction: results of the 'Cologne Male Survey'.

Braun M(1), Wassmer G, Klotz T, Reifenrath B, Mathers M, Engelmann U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Thurgauisches Kantonsspital, Münsterlingen, 
Switzerland.

The last few decades have seen a marked increase in mean life expectancy in 
Central Europe. This has made elderly people and their quality of life a matter 
of ever-increasing medical concern. Available data from the United States and 
Scandinavia relating to erectile dysfunction (ED) do not enable us to draw valid 
conclusions about the current situation in Germany. The aim of the present study 
was to evaluate the epidemiology of male sexuality in Germany, and the 
proportion of men who need medical treatment because of increased suffering from 
this.A newly developed and validated questionnaire on male erectile dysfunction 
was mailed to a representative population sample of 8000 men, 30-80 y of age in 
the Cologne urban district. The response included 4489 evaluable replies 
(56.1%). The response rates in different age groups ranged from 49.2% to 68.4%. 
Regular sexual activity was reported by 96.0% (youngest age group) to 71.3% 
(oldest group). There were 31.5%-44% of responders who were dissatisfied with 
their current sex life. The prevalence of ED was 19.2%, with a steep age-related 
increase (2.3-53.4%) and a high co-morbidity of ED with hypertension, diabetes, 
pelvic surgery and 'lower urinary tract symptoms'. When treatment need was 
defined by co-occurrence of ED and dissatisfaction with sex life, 6.9% men 
required treatment for ED. Oral treatment of ED was preferred by 73.8% of 
respondents. There were 46.2% respondents who were willing to contribute more 
than DM 50 (25 Euro) per month for ED treatment. We conclude that regular sexual 
activity is a normal finding in advanced age. ED is a frequent disorder, 
contributing to dissatisfaction with sex life in a considerable proportion of 
men. The high burden of ED is reflected in willingness to pay for treatment. ED 
is frequently associated with chronic diseases. Therefore adequate diagnostic 
workup is essential, to offer patients individually adapted treatment. General 
non-reimbursability of treatment for ED appears to be unacceptable.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900622
PMID: 11416833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Med Ethics. 2001 Jun;27(3):148-50. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.3.148.

Harm, ethics committees and the gene therapy death.

Savulescu J.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.3.148
PMCID: PMC1733412
PMID: 11417019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Med Ethics. 2001 Jun;27(3):179-85. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.3.179.

Rationing and life-saving treatments: should identifiable patients have higher 
priority?

Hope T(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford.

Health care systems across the world are unable to afford the best treatment for 
all patients in all situations. Choices have to be made. One key ethical issue 
that arises for health authorities is whether the principle of the "rule of 
rescue" should be adopted or rejected. According to this principle more funding 
should be available in order to save lives of identifiable, compared with 
unidentifiable, individuals. Six reasons for giving such priority to 
identifiable individuals are considered. All are rejected. It is concluded that 
the principle of the rule of rescue should not be used in determining the 
allocation of health resources.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.3.179
PMCID: PMC1733406
PMID: 11417026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Leukemia. 2001 Jun;15(6):898-902. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402130.

Daunorubicin continuous infusion induces more toxicity than bolus infusion in 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia induction regimen: a randomized study.

Hunault-Berger M(1), Milpied N, Bernard M, Jouet JP, Delain M, Desablens B, 
Sadoun A, Guilhot F, Casassus P, Ifrah N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology of the University Hospital of Angers, France.

We report the first randomized study assessing the efficacy and safety of 
daunorubicin (DNR) continuous infusion (CI) compared to the more conventional 
30-min infusion (i.v.) in newly diagnosed adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL). Seventy-seven patients were initially randomized to receive either a 24-h 
CI DNR (60 mg/m2 days 2-4) (40 patients) or bolus DNR at the same dosage (37 
patients) with vincristine (2 mg i.v. days 1, 8, 15) and oral prednisone (60 
mg/m2 days 1-15), without hematopoietic growth factor support, as an induction 
regimen. The distribution of adverse prognostic factors was comparable in the 
two-induction arm. Acute toxicity was more important in the CI arm. Gram 
negative infection (9 vs 1 gram negative septicemia, P = 0.01) and 
infection-related deaths (6 vs 1 deaths, P = NS) occurred more frequently in the 
CI arm during the induction treatment than in the i.v. arm, leading to the study 
interruption. Neutropenia but not thrombopenia duration was significantly longer 
in the CI arm than in the i.v. arm (18 days vs 14 days, P > 0.05 and 16 days vs 
12 days, P > 0.05, respectively). Despite a similar CR rate according to the 
method of DNR administration (68% in the CI DNR arm vs 76% in the i.v. arm after 
the first course), there was a trend toward higher freedom from relapse (FFR) 
after DNR CI (48% vs 28% in the i.v. arm at 5 years, P = NS), suggesting that 
despite this high toxicity, DNR CI may improve the CR quality and decrease 
further the residual disease.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402130
PMID: 11417474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Leukemia. 2001 Jun;15(6):963-70. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402122.

Secondary acute myelogenous leukemia and myelodysplasia without abnormalities of 
chromosome 11q23 following treatment of acute leukemia with topoisomerase 
II-based chemotherapy.

Seiter K(1), Feldman EJ, Sreekantaiah C, Pozzuoli M, Weisberger J, Liu D, 
Papageorgio C, Weiss M, Kancherla R, Ahmed T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology/Hematology, New York Medical 
College, New York, NY, USA.

Therapy-related MDS and AML are complications of intensive chemotherapy 
regimens. Traditionally, patients exposed to topoisomerase II inhibitors are 
reported to develop secondary AML with abnormalities of chromosome 11q23. We 
evaluated the long-term hematologic toxicity of topoisomerase II-intensive 
high-dose mitoxantrone-based chemotherapy in 163 newly diagnosed acute leukemia 
patients treated over an 8 year period. Nine (5.5%) patients developed new 
cytogenetic abnormalities. Four patients developed MDS with progression to AML, 
three patients developed new abnormalities at the time of relapse, and three 
patients (including one of the former patients) had changes that were not 
associated with hematologic disease. The abnormalities most frequently involved 
chromosomes 7q, 20q, 1q, and 13q. Despite the use of topoisomerase II-intensive 
treatment, no patient developed an abnormality involving chromosome 11q23. 
Spontaneous resolution of some changes and prolonged persistence of others in 
the absence of hematologic disease indicates that some cytogenetic changes are 
not sufficient to promote leukemogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402122
PMID: 11417484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2001 Jun;27(4):364-7. doi: 10.1053/ejso.2001.1120.

Survival and quality of life after palliative surgery for neoplastic 
gastrointestinal obstruction.

Legendre H(1), Vanhuyse F, Caroli-Bosc FX, Pector JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Jules Bordet Institute, Brussels, Belgium. 
hugues.legendre@bordet.be

OBJECTIVE: The aim was to identify the prognostic factors which relate to the 
results, in terms of survival and quality of life, of palliative surgery in 
cancer patients presenting with an occlusion.
METHODS: The files of 109 patients with a neoplasm who were operated on for 
occlusion between 1990 and 2000 have been re-examined. The prognostic factors 
studied were age, sex, the location of the primary tumour, the extension of the 
cancer at the time of the operation, and the surgical procedure carried out. The 
impact on the quality of life was assessed by the resumption of transit and the 
return home.
RESULTS: The median survival was 64 days and the peroperative mortality was 21%. 
The quality of life of patients has been improved in 65% of cases. The only 
factors clearly correlating to survival and the success of the operation are the 
aetiological diagnosis of the occlusion (local recurrence better than 
carcinomatosis) and the type of procedure it was possible to carry out 
(resection better than bypass).
CONCLUSION: Palliative surgery can, in a certain number of cases, improve the 
quality of life of patients, but it has not been possible for us to demonstrate 
prognostic factors which would allow the selection of patients who could benefit 
the most from such surgery.

Copyright Harcourt Publishers Limited.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.2001.1120
PMID: 11417981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Trends Genet. 2001 Jul;17(7):391-2. doi: 10.1016/s0168-9525(01)02339-3.

SIR2 and aging--the exception that proves the rule.

Guarente L(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, 
USA. leng@MIT.edu

One of the holy grails of medicine is the possibility of an increase in lifespan 
without a decrease in vitality. However, the causes and processes of human aging 
are still unclear. One evolutionary theory is that in the post-reproductive 
stage of life, selective forces decline allowing many vital systems to 
deteriorate. This suggests that intervention will be difficult, if not 
impossible. However, molecular geneticists propose an aging process that is 
programmed (like other developmental processes) and regulated by single genes, 
meaning that intervention could be possible. Here, I discuss a way of 
reconciling these two views that could have major implications for healthcare.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-9525(01)02339-3
PMID: 11418219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00308-7.

Priorities among recommended clinical preventive services.

Coffield AB(1), Maciosek MV, McGinnis JM, Harris JR, Caldwell MB, Teutsch SM, 
Atkins D, Richland JH, Haddix A.

Author information:
(1)Partnership for Prevention, Washington, DC 20036, USA. accoffield@prevent.org

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):66-7.
    Am J Prev Med. 2002 Apr;22(3):209-10.

BACKGROUND: Many recommended clinical preventive services are delivered at low 
rates. Decision-makers who wish to improve delivery rates, but face competing 
demands for finite resources, need information on the relative value of these 
services. This article describes the results of a systematic assessment of the 
value of clinical preventive services recommended for average-risk patients by 
the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.
METHODS: The assessment of services' value for the U.S. population was based on 
two dimensions: burden of disease prevented by each service and cost 
effectiveness. Methods were developed for measuring these criteria consistently 
across different types of services. A companion article describes the methods in 
greater detail. Each service received 1 to 5 points on each of the two 
dimensions, for total scores ranging from 2 to 10. Priority opportunities for 
improving delivery rates were determined by comparing the ranking of services 
with what is known of current delivery rates nationally.
RESULTS: The highest ranked services (scores of 7+) with the lowest delivery 
rates (< or =50% nationally) are providing tobacco cessation counseling to 
adults, screening older adults for undetected vision impairments, offering 
adolescents an anti-tobacco message or advice to quit, counseling adolescents on 
alcohol and drug abstinence, screening adults for colorectal cancer, screening 
young women for chlamydial infection, screening adults for problem drinking, and 
vaccinating older adults against pneumococcal disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision-makers can use the results to set their own priorities for 
increasing delivery of clinical preventive services. The methods provide a basis 
for future priority-setting efforts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00308-7
PMID: 11418251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00309-9.

Methods for priority setting among clinical preventive services.

Maciosek MV(1), Coffield AB, McGinnis JM, Harris JR, Caldwell MB, Teutsch SM, 
Atkins D, Richland JH, Haddix A.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):66-7.
    Am J Prev Med. 2002 Apr;22(3):209-10.

Methods used to compare the value of clinical preventive services based on two 
criteria-clinically preventable burden (CPB) and cost effectiveness (CE)-are 
described. A companion article provides rankings of clinical preventive services 
and discusses its uses for decision-makers; this article focuses on the methods, 
challenges faced, and solutions. The authors considered all types of data 
essential to measuring CPB and CE for services recommended by the U.S. 
Preventive Services Task Force and developed methods essential to ensuring valid 
comparisons of different services' relative value.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00309-9
PMID: 11418252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):29-34. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00312-9.

Cost utility of public clinics to increase pneumococcal vaccines in the elderly.

Mukamel DB(1), Gold HT, Bennett NM.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester Medical Center, Department of Community & Preventive 
Medicine, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. Dana_Mukamel@urmc.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: Pneumococcal immunization has been shown to be cost effective, is 
recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, and is covered 
by Medicare. Despite that, over 50% of the population aged > or =65 is not 
vaccinated, leading to significant mortality and morbidity. The objective of 
this study is to evaluate the costs and the cost utility of immunization in 
nontraditional settings (community clinics set up to provide influenza and 
pneumococcal vaccinations) as a strategy to increase pneumococcal immunization 
rates.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis of public immunization clinics in Monroe 
County, New York, during the fall of 1998. The study included 1207 adults aged > 
or =65. Costs of operating the clinics and of vaccine administration were 
measured. The cost of health sequela and estimates of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were obtained from prior studies. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to test several important assumptions.
RESULTS: Unlike immunizations in physician offices, immunizations in 
nontraditional settings are not cost saving. Estimates of incremental 
cost-utility ratios ranged from $4215 per QALY to $12,617 per QALY, depending on 
the underlying assumptions of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinics in nontraditional settings offering pneumococcal 
immunization have cost-utility ratios near and below those of other recommended 
vaccines. These results suggest that such clinics should be considered a viable 
strategy for increasing pneumococcal immunization rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00312-9
PMID: 11418254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):66-7. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00318-x.

Priorities among recommended clinical preventive services.

Lawrence DM.

Comment on
    Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):1-9.
    Am J Prev Med. 2001 Jul;21(1):10-9.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00318-x
PMID: 11418260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nature. 2001 Jun 21;411(6840):891. doi: 10.1038/35082158.

Risk and uncertainty.

May R(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Society, Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AG, UK.

DOI: 10.1038/35082158
PMID: 11418834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Harefuah. 2001 May;140(5):395-7, 454.

[Surgery in patients over 100 years of age--5-year experience (1995-2000)].

[Article in Hebrew]

Ginzburg V(1), Szendro G, Golcman L, Weksler N, Yurfest S, Charach Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Soroka Medical Center, Ben-Gurion University, 
Beer-Sheba, Israel.

The age distribution of a given national population is of utmost importance when 
dealing with public health and analyzing the use of various national health 
facilities. This is based on the totally different use of health sources by 
different age groups. Despite continuous prolongation of life expectancy and the 
related aging of the western hospitalized population the sub-group of patients 
over 100 year old of age is unusual demographically and accounts for only a very 
small portion of the total number of patients hospitalized in surgical wards. 
During the 5 year experience between 1995 and 2000 seventeen such patients were 
admitted to our surgical departments. Eight of those underwent 11 operations 
with zero peri-operative mortality and no significant complications. These 11 
operations in this elderly population are the basis of our report.

PMID: 11419059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):S-13. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00004.

Summaries for patients. How willing are doctors to give patients with terminal 
cancer accurate information about their chances of survival?

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-134-12-200106190-00004
PMID: 11419415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Urban Health. 2001 Jun;78(2):403-9. doi: 10.1093/jurban/78.2.403.

The collapse of global public health and why it matters for New York.

