Garrett L(1).

Author information:
(1)Newsday, New York City, NY 10016, USA. lgarrett@newsday.com

DOI: 10.1093/jurban/78.2.403
PMCID: PMC3456360
PMID: 11419592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Aug;9(4):356-61. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00023-0.

Femoro-popliteal reconstructions: 'in situ' versus 'reversed' technique.

Davidovic LB(1), Markovic DM, Vojnovic BR, Lotina SI, Kostic DM, Cinara IS, 
Cvetkovic SD, Jakovljevic NS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cardiovascular Diseases, Clinical Centre of Serbia, 8 K 
Todorovica st, 11000, Belgrade, Yugoslavia. lazard@eunet.yu

This study examined 191 patients with 'reversed' and 99 patients with 'in situ' 
femoro-popliteal bypass technique. There were 85 diabetic patients (44.5%) in 
the group with 'reversed' bypass, and 43 patients (43.43%) in the 'in situ' 
group. There were 152 (79.68%) smokers in the 'reversed' bypass group, and 80 
(80.8%) in the 'in situ' group. The graft patency was confirmed immediately 
after operation using CW Doppler and then followed up after 1, 6, l2 months and 
annually thereafter. The statistical analysis was performed using Pearsons 
chi-square test, Fischer's test and 'Life table' statistic methods. The patients 
were followed from 3 to 10 yr after surgery. 'In situ' bypass showed better 
patency than the 'reversed' bypass technique but only in the second and tenth 
follow-up year (P < 0.05). Also, 'in situ' bypass proved to be better than 
'reversed' only in patients with one patent crural artery (P < 0.01). Diabetes 
and preoperative smoking did not significantly affect late patency regarding 
this technique (P > 0.05). However, continuous smoking after the operation 
significantly decreased late patency rate in both groups of patients (P < 0.01). 
There was no significant difference in the early thrombectomy rate between 
groups with 'reversed' and 'in situ' bypasses (P > 0.05). The early 
thrombectomy, however, significantly reduced late patency rate in both groups (P 
< 0.01). Therefore we suggest 'in situ' bypass in cases with poor run off, 
small-calibre vein and 'long' bypass. Also, we consider important more frequent 
physical and Doppler ultrasonographic control in patients who had early 
thrombectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00023-0
PMID: 11420160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Arch Dis Child. 2001 Jul;85(1):62-6. doi: 10.1136/adc.85.1.62.

Recent advances in cystic fibrosis.

Doull IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis/Respiratory Unit, Department of Child Health, University 
Hospital of Wales, Cardiff CF14 4XW, UK. doullij@cf.ac.uk

The median life expectancy for cystic fibrosis is now over 30 years, and it is 
projected that in newborn infants it will become more than 40 years. The 
identification of the cystic fibrosis gene and its product, cystic fibrosis 
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), has widened the spectrum of the 
disease from the classical case of the infant with cystic fibrosis to the 
elderly childless man with unexplained bronchiectasis. There is increasing 
evidence of the advantages of newborn screening for cystic fibrosis and 
subsequent specialist care. Management concentrates on optimising nutritional 
status and preventing lung infection and inflammation.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.85.1.62
PMCID: PMC1718852
PMID: 11420207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Eur J Public Health. 2001 Jun;11(2):234-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/11.2.234.

Health economics. A bridge over troubled water.

Brouwer WB(1), Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherland. Brouwer@bmg.eur.nl

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/11.2.234
PMID: 11420818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. N Z Med J. 2001 May 11;114(1131):214-5.

Should decisions on treatment be based on absolute benefit rather than absolute 
risk?

Cheung BM(1), Kumana CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, 
Pokfulam. mycheung@hkucc.hku.hk

PMID: 11421436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2001 Jul;80(7):510-6; quiz 517-9. doi: 
10.1097/00002060-200107000-00009.

Long-term causes of death after traumatic brain injury.

Shavelle RM(1), Strauss D, Whyte J, Day SM, Yu YL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine which causes of death are more frequent in persons with 
traumatic brain injury (TBI), and by how much, compared with the general 
population. Our focus was the period beginning 1 yr after injury.
DESIGN: Subjects were 2320 Californians with long-term mental disability after a 
TBI at age 10 yr or more, followed up between 1988 and 1997. The units of study 
were person-years, each linked to the subject's age, gender, level of 
ambulation, time since injury, and cause of death (if any) for the specific 
year. Observed numbers of cause-specific deaths were compared with numbers 
expected according to general population mortality rates.
RESULTS: Mortality was higher between 1.0 and 5.0 yr postinjury than after 5.0 
yr and was strongly related to reduced mobility. Death rates were elevated for 
circulatory diseases, respiratory diseases, choking/suffocation, and seizures, 
with seizure deaths being relatively frequent, even among the most ambulatory.
CONCLUSIONS: Death rates for several causes are elevated in persons with 
long-term sequelae of TBI. The increased risk of choking/suffocation should be 
of interest to caregivers. Life expectancy seems to be reduced, even for 
patients who are fully ambulatory.

DOI: 10.1097/00002060-200107000-00009
PMID: 11421519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Diabetes Care. 2001 Jul;24(7):1306-7. doi: 10.2337/diacare.24.7.1306.

How cost-effective is the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with diabetes 
but without cardiovascular disease? A response to Grover et al.

Egede LE.

Comment on
    Diabetes Care. 2001 Jan;24(1):45-50.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.24.7.1306
PMID: 11423528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2001 Jul;12(7):1493-1500. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V1271493.

Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-associated glomerulonephritis in 
children.

Hattori M(1), Kurayama H(2), Koitabashi Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, School 
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, National Chiba Higashi Hospital, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, St. Marianna University, School of Medicine, 
Kawasaki, Japan.

Aretrospective investigation was conducted by members of the Japanese Society 
for Pediatric Nephrology from 1990 to 1997 to define the clinical features and 
outcome of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated 
glomerulonephritis in children. Thirty-four ANCA-seropositive Japanese pediatric 
patients with biopsy-proven pauci-immune necrotizing crescentic 
glomerulonephritis were identified. Of these, 3 cases associated with Wegener's 
granulomatosis were excluded because of the small sample size. Among the 31 
patients studied, 10 had a diagnosis of necrotizing crescentic 
glomerulonephritis alone and 21 had microscopic polyangiitis. Females 
predominated (87%), and the median age at onset was 12 yr. Twenty-six patients 
received treatment with cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids, and five patients 
received treatment with corticosteroids alone; 84% of patients achieved 
remission, and 39% of responders relapsed in a median of 24 mo. ANCA titers 
correlated with response to treatment and disease activity, with some 
exceptions. Patients were followed for a median of 42 mo (range, 3 to 96 mo). 
Nine of 31 patients (29.0%) progressed to end-stage renal disease, 6 (19.4%) had 
reduced renal function, and 15 (48.4%) had normal renal function at the last 
observation. One patient (3.2%) died from cytomegalovirus infection 3 mo after 
initiation of therapy. Life-table analysis showed 75% renal survival at 39 mo. 
Patients who subsequently developed end-stage renal disease (n = 9) had 
significantly higher average peak serum creatinine levels and more chronic 
pathologic lesions at diagnosis compared with patients with favorable renal 
outcome (n = 15). In conclusion, our clinical experience suggests that the 
clinical disease spectrum of ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis is similar in 
pediatric and adult patients, but there is a female predominance in children.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V1271493
PMID: 11423578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Reprod Health Matters. 2000 May;8(15):113-6. doi:
10.1016/s0968-8080(00)90012-0.

A consumer trip into the world of the DALY calculations: an Alice-in-Wonderland 
experience.

Bastian H(1).

Author information:
(1)hilda.bastian@flinders.edu.au

For a consumer advocate, entering the world of the disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) calculations was a surreal experience. What began with the noble 
aim of working out how to overcome the tyranny of death as the only way of 
'measuring' health, has led to an exercise where people weigh the relative value 
of health conditions without death as a feature. However, life-threatening 
diseases, if they no longer carry the threat of death, are no longer themselves. 
These valuations of 'altered health states' then, can become absurd. While data 
often fail to measure real life very well, and distort as well as illuminate, 
the ranking of disease in this way is particularly problematic. It has been said 
to disadvantage the poor, the very young and very old, and women. It privileges 
short-term interventions over prevention and long-term strategies. Can this 
really improve decision-making about resource allocation in health?

DOI: 10.1016/s0968-8080(00)90012-0
PMID: 11424257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Reprod Health Matters. 2000 May;8(15):117-25. doi: 
10.1016/s0968-8080(00)90013-2.

Is it feasible or desirable to measure burdens of disease as a single number?

Nygaard E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Partnership in Development, PO Box 23 Vinderen, N-0319 Oslo, 
Norway. nygaard@dis.no

This paper questions the feasibility and desirability of creating a composite 
health index, such as the DALY (disability adjusted life years), that aggregates 
information about both mortality and morbidity into one number, to represent the 
burden of disease. Despite the expressed intention not to include contextual 
factors in the description of health states, in practice, doing so is 
unavoidable when trying to construct a health indicator. Including contextual 
factors leads to severe problems, however, regarding validity and reliability, 
and these are increased when evaluations of the described health states are 
made. This renders little confidence in DALYs as a measurement of the burden of 
disease. Using cost-effectiveness analyses and DALYs as tools in priority 
setting might have unwanted consequences, and this is not the only method of 
achieving economic efficiency. The use of this method might also serve to 
relieve politicians of the responsibility for resource allocation in the health 
sector. An alternative to a composite index is better and more comprehensive 
epidemiological data on sexual and reproductive health mortality, morbidity and 
diseases rather than the better use of health indicators of questionable 
validity and reliability. These kinds of data are now being collected in 
connection with the Global Burden of Disease Project. It should be up to the 
decisions-makers to allocate existing resources based on a balancing of the many 
good purposes and goals available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0968-8080(00)90013-2
PMID: 11424258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2001 Jan-Feb;64(1-2 Suppl):85-96. doi: 
10.4269/ajtmh.2001.64.85.

The economic burden of malaria.

Gallup JL(1), Sachs JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for International Development, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02138, USA. john_gallup@harvard.edu

Malaria and poverty are intimately connected. Controlling for factors such as 
tropical location, colonial history, and geographical isolation, countries with 
intensive malaria had income levels in 1995 of only 33% that of countries 
without malaria, whether or not the countries were in Africa. The high levels of 
malaria in poor countries are not mainly a consequence of poverty. Malaria is 
geographically specific. The ecological conditions that support the more 
efficient malaria mosquito vectors primarily determine the distribution and 
intensity of the disease. Intensive efforts to eliminate malaria in the most 
severely affected tropical countries have been largely ineffective. Countries 
that have eliminated malaria in the past half century have all been either 
subtropical or islands. These countries' economic growth in the 5 years after 
eliminating malaria has usually been substantially higher than growth in the 
neighboring countries. Cross-country regressions for the 1965-1990 period 
confirm the relationship between malaria and economic growth. Taking into 
account initial poverty, economic policy, tropical location, and life 
expectancy, among other factors, countries with intensive malaria grew 1.3% less 
per person per year, and a 10% reduction in malaria was associated with 0.3% 
higher growth. Controlling for many other tropical diseases does not change the 
correlation of malaria with economic growth, and these diseases are not 
themselves significantly negatively correlated with economic growth. A second 
independent measure of malaria has a slightly higher correlation with economic 
growth in the 1980-1996 period. We speculate about the mechanisms that could 
cause malaria to have such a large impact on the economy, such as foreign 
investment and economic networks within the country.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.2001.64.85
PMID: 11425181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Lancet. 2001 May 26;357(9269):1685-91. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04824-8.

Healthy life expectancy in 191 countries, 1999.

Mathers CD(1), Sadana R, Salomon JA, Murray CJ, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, 1211 27, Geneva, Switzerland. mathersc@who.ch

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 May 26;357(9269):1633.
    Lancet. 2001 Sep 8;358(9284):842-3.
    Lancet. 2001 Sep 29;358(9287):1097.

We describe here the methods used to produce the first estimates of healthy life 
expectancy (DALE) for 191 countries in 1999. These were based on estimates of 
the incidence, prevalence, and disability distributions for 109 disease and 
injury causes by age group, sex, and region of the world, and an analysis of 60 
representative health surveys across the world. We used Sullivan's method to 
compute healthy life expectancy for men and women in each WHO member country. 
Japan had the highest average healthy life expectancy of 74.5 years at birth in 
1999. The bottom ten countries are all in sub-Saharan Africa, where the HIV-AIDS 
epidemic is most prevalent, resulting in DALE at birth of less than 35 years. 
Years of healthy life lost due to disability represent 18% of total life 
expectancy in the bottom countries, and decreases to around 8% in the countries 
with the highest healthy life expectancies. Globally, the male-female gap is 
lower for DALE than for total life expectancy. Healthy life expectancy increases 
across countries at a faster rate than total life expectancy, suggesting that 
reductions in mortality are accompanied by reductions in disability. Although 
women live longer, they spend a greater amount of time with disability. As 
average levels of health expenditure per capita increase, healthy life 
expectancy increases at a greater rate than total life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04824-8
PMID: 11425392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Saudi Med J. 2001 Jun;22(6):541-3.

Lymphomatoid granulomatosis with long survival.

Al-Arfaj AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia. asarfaj@ksu.edu.sa

We present a case of lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting in a 35-year-old 
Saudi lady with long survival. She responded to treatment with intermittent 
cyclophosphamide infusion in addition to corticosteroids. This is the first case 
of lymphomatoid granulomatosis to be reported in the Arab world. The prolonged 
survival and response to intermittent cyclophosphamide infusion is discussed.

PMID: 11426249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Nutr Health Aging. 2001;5(2):97-102.

Nutritional factors on longevity and quality of life in Japan.

Shibata H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Health Science, and Sports, College of Humanities, 
Obirin University.

The relationship of nutrient intakes to life expectancies in Japan since the 
Second World War has demonstrated that sufficient intakes of animal protein and 
fat are crucial for attaining longevity. In the community dwelling elderly, the 
higher the serum albumin was, the longer the further life expectancy in the 
elderly. Serum total cholesterol showed a U-shape relationship to further life 
expectancies in the elderly. Low serum cholesterol was deleterious for higher 
levels of functional capacity. Low serum cholesterol and low serum 
alpha-tochopherol accelerated depressive status in the community dwelling 
elderly. For reducing malnutrition and for improving nutritional status in 
undernourished elders, we carried out intervention trials. Instructions on how 
to prepare ideal daily meals were useful in functionally independent elders 
because a certain group of Japanese elderly has been stigmatized for eating 
meat. In frail elders provided with daily meals in a nursing home, a digestive 
enzyme drug was helpful for enhancing serum albumin levels.

PMID: 11426289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Gynecol Oncol. 2001 Jul;82(1):167-71. doi: 10.1006/gyno.2001.6233.

10-Gy single-fraction pelvic irradiation for palliation and life prolongation in 
patients with cancer of the cervix and corpus uteri.

Onsrud M(1), Hagen B, Strickert T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, University Hospital, Trondheim, 7006, 
Norway. mathiaso@frisurf.no

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of single 
fractions of 10 Gy pelvic irradiation for palliation and life prolongation in 
patients with cancer of the uterine cervix or corpus.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on 37 cervical cancer and 27 
corpus cancer patients treated in the period 1988-1998. All patients had a life 
expectancy of less than 1 year. Due to stage of disease, age (median 82 years), 
or comorbidity they were considered unapt for surgery or conventional 
radiotherapy. Eleven patients with recurrence within irradiated field or early 
progression received one, 51 patients received two, and 2 patients received 
three fractions with a 4-week interval.
RESULTS: Vaginal bleeding stopped in 90% and malodorous discharge in 39% of the 
patients. Among 46 patients with advanced disease treated for palliation, 10 
(22%) showed complete tumor responses. Median time to progression was 6 months, 
and median survival, 9 months. Eighteen patients with early-stage disease and 
serious comorbidity were treated with life prolongation and symptom prevention 
as intention, and showed seven complete responses. Median survival was 13 
months, and half the deaths were caused by intercurrent disease. Median hospital 
stay was 5 days and rehabilitation was easy. Fifty-six percent of the patients 
experienced no acute side effects and 33% had minor gastrointestinal problems. 
Three patients (6%) had serious late bowel complications, one with a fatal 
outcome, the symptoms appearing 9-10 months posttreatment.
CONCLUSION: The 10-Gy single-fraction pelvic radiation regimen is an effective 
means of symptom palliation and is well tolerated. Tumor responses are obtained. 
The risk of late bowel complications is a concern for patients with a life 
expectancy greater than 9 months.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.2001.6233
PMID: 11426980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Gynecol Oncol. 2001 Jul;82(1):181-6. doi: 10.1006/gyno.2001.6262.

Primary osteosarcoma of the uterine corpus: report of a case with 
immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study.

Hardisson D(1), Simón RS, Burgos E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Autonomous University of Madrid, Madrid, E-28046, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Primary uterine osteosarcoma is extremely rare, with only 15 cases 
reported in the literature.
CASE: A 41-year-old woman presented with abnormal vaginal bleeding due to a 
large tumor arising from the uterine corpus. Histologically, the tumor showed 
the features of a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm with osteoid formation and 
lacked an epithelial component. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies 
showed no evidence of epithelial differentiation. The tumor was excised and the 
patient received chemotherapy and radiation therapy postoperatively, but the 
tumor recurred locally at the 8-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Osteosarcoma as a primary uterine tumor is exceedingly rare and 
should be distinguished from carcinosarcoma, which shows different macroscopic 
and histologic features. Prognosis of this neoplasm is very poor with an average 
life expectancy of 5 months.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.2001.6262
PMID: 11426983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Jun 25;161(12):1501-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.161.12.1501.

Relationship of blood pressure to 25-year mortality due to coronary heart 
disease, cardiovascular diseases, and all causes in young adult men: the Chicago 
Heart Association Detection Project in Industry.

Miura K(1), Daviglus ML, Dyer AR, Liu K, Garside DB, Stamler J, Greenland P.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Medical School, Department of Preventive Medicine, 
680 N Lake Shore Dr, Suite 1102, Chicago, IL 60611-4402, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2002 Mar 11;162(5):610-1.

BACKGROUND: Data are limited on blood pressure (BP) in young adults and 
long-term mortality. Moreover, screening and hypertension treatment guidelines 
have been based mainly on findings for middle-aged and older populations. This 
study assesses relationships of BP measured in young adult men to long-term 
mortality due to coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular diseases (CVD), 
and all causes.
METHODS: This cohort from the Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in 
Industry included 10 874 men aged 18 to 39 years at baseline (1967-1973), not 
receiving antihypertensive drugs, and without CHD or diabetes. Relationship of 
baseline BP to 25-year CHD, CVD, and all-cause mortality was assessed.
RESULTS: Age-adjusted association of systolic BP to CHD mortality was continuous 
and graded. Multivariate-adjusted CHD hazard ratios (HRs) for 1 SD higher 
systolic BP (15 mm Hg) and diastolic BP (10 mm Hg) were 1.26 (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.11-1.44) and 1.17 (95% CI, 1.01-1.35), respectively. Compared 
with the Sixth Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, 
Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure stratum with normal BP (and 
lowest mortality rates), the large strata with high-normal BP and stage 1 
hypertension had 25-year absolute risks for death of 63 and 72 per 1000, 
respectively, and absolute excess risks of 10 and 20 per 1000, respectively; 
accounted for 59.8% of all excess CHD, CVD, and all-cause mortality; and were 
estimated to have life expectancy shortened by 2.2 and 4.1 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In young adult men, BP above normal was significantly related to 
increased long-term mortality due to CHD, CVD, and all causes. Population-wide 
primary prevention, early detection, and control of higher BP are indicated from 
young adulthood on.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.12.1501
PMID: 11427097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Environ Health Perspect. 2001 Jun;109 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):419-25. doi: 
10.1289/ehp.01109s3419.

Assessing the health benefits of urban air pollution reductions associated with 
climate change mitigation (2000-2020): Santiago, São Paulo, México City, and New 
York City.

Cifuentes L(1), Borja-Aburto VH, Gouveia N, Thurston G, Davis DL.

Author information:
(1)Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

To investigate the potential local health benefits of adopting greenhouse gas 
(GHG) mitigation policies, we develop scenarios of GHG mitigation for México 
City, México; Santiago, Chile; São Paulo, Brazil; and New York, New York, USA 
using air pollution health impact factors appropriate to each city. We estimate 
that the adoption of readily available technologies to lessen fossil fuel 
emissions over the next two decades in these four cities alone will reduce 
particulate matter and ozone and avoid approximately 64,000 (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 18,000-116,000) premature deaths (including infant deaths), 65,000 
(95% CI 22,000-108,000) chronic bronchitis cases, and 46 million (95% CI 35-58 
million) person-days of work loss or other restricted activity. These findings 
illustrate that GHG mitigation can provide considerable local air 
pollution-related public health benefits to countries that choose to abate GHG 
emissions by reducing fossil fuel combustion.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.01109s3419
PMCID: PMC1240560
PMID: 11427391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001 Jun;33(6 Suppl):S400-18; discussion S419-20. doi:
 10.1097/00005768-200106001-00008.

Absolute versus relative intensity of physical activity in a dose-response 
context.

Shephard RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Physical Education and Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
CANADA. royjshep@mountain-inter.net

PURPOSE: To examine the importance of relative versus absolute intensities of 
physical activity in the context of population health.
METHODS: A standard computer-search of the literature was supplemented by review 
of extensive personal files.
RESULTS: Consensus reports (Category D Evidence) have commonly recommended 
moderate rather than hard physical activity in the context of population health. 
Much of the available literature provides Category C Evidence. It has often 
confounded issues of relative intensity with absolute intensity or total weekly 
dose of exercise. In terms of cardiovascular health, there is some evidence for 
a threshold intensity of effort, perhaps as high as 6 METs, in addition to a 
minimum volume of physical activity. Decreases in blood pressure and prevention 
of stroke seem best achieved by moderate rather than high relative intensities 
of physical activity. Many aspects of metabolic health depend on the total 
volume of activity; moderate relative intensities of effort are more effective 
in mobilizing body fat, but harder relative intensities may help to increase 
energy expenditures postexercise. Hard relative intensities seem needed to 
augment bone density, but this may reflect an associated increase in volume of 
activity. Hard relative intensities of exercise induce a transient 
immunosuppression. The optimal intensity of effort, relative or absolute, for 
protection against various types of cancer remains unresolved. Acute effects of 
exercise on mood state also require further study; long-term benefits seem 
associated with a moderate rather than a hard relative intensity of effort.
CONCLUSIONS: The importance of relative versus absolute intensity of effort 
depends on the desired health outcome, and many issues remain to be resolved. 
Progress will depend on more precise epidemiological methods of assessing energy 
expenditures and studies that equate total energy expenditures between differing 
relative intensities. There is a need to focus on gains in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00005768-200106001-00008
PMID: 11427764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2001 Jun;49(3):249-57.

[Cost-benefit ratio of tick-borne encephalitis vaccination of French troops 
based in Kosovo].

[Article in French]

Desjeux G(1), Lemardeley P, Colin C, Pascal B, Labarère J.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital d'Instruction des Armées Desgenettes. Service de Médecine des 
Collectivités, BP 25, 69998 Lyon-Armées.

BACKGROUND: French military troops based in Kosovo are exposed to Tick-Borne 
Encephalitis (TBE) biorisk. An efficacious vaccine is available to prevent this 
disease, burdened by high morbidity and mortality. The epidemiologic features of 
TBE in Kosovo are unprecise. To help the French Department of Defense to make a 
decision about immunization against TBE, we performed a cost-benefit analysis.
METHODS: By a Bayes'analysis decision, we have estimated the net benefits for a 
three-injection vaccine program versus absence of vaccination, for all French 
military troops based in Kosovo. Time expectancy was 4 years. Through the review 
of several medical reports, we have estimated the useful parameters for this 
study: morbidity incidence rate, mortality rate, sequelae rate, efficacy vaccine 
and side effects. We have chosen as initial hypothesis a sero-conversion rate of 
1,080 per 100,000 men-by-year. Human life was valorized in francs, by 
calculating the allowance paid by Department of Defense to the family in case of 
death or for sequelae.
RESULTS: Net benefits arised to 2.17 millions of francs. The vaccine program 
cost was 25.0 millions of francs. 140 cases of encephalitis viruses were saved 
by vaccination. Nevertheless a sensibility analysis has shown that results are 
well reliable with TBE incidence rate.
CONCLUSION: The break even point being close to the incidence rate of the 
initial assumption, the decision to vaccine all French military troops depends 
at the same time on a better knowledge of the incidence of the disease in 
Kosovo, but also of the number of potentially avoided cases of tick-borne 
encephalitis and of the programs of vaccination concerning this disease of the 
other countries forming the United Nations Organization forces.

PMID: 11427828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 May;34 Suppl 1:43-8. doi: 10.1007/s003910170007.

[Education, graduate and continuing education in geriatrics and geriatric 
rehabilitation].

[Article in German]

Stamm T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Frührehabilitation und Geriatrie Westküstenklinikum Heide 
Esmarchstrasse 50 25746 Heide. tstamm@wkk-hei.de

Education and training in geriatric medicine for family doctors and medical 
specialists, nurses, physio- and ergotherapists, social workers becomes more 
important. A curriculum in high quality geriatric medicine can help solve the 
problems coming up with the increasing life-expectancy and with the increasing 
proportion of elderly depending on care and social services. The development of 
curricula and programs in high quality geriatric medicine demonstrates that the 
geriatrician has a special approach to the elderly patient different from 
traditional medicine. Describing and teaching this special approach to the 
elderly patient shows the special view of the geriatrician working with elderly 
patients. A number of barriers to program development must be considered. To 
successfully implement geriatrics training, geriatric faculties need to have 
adequate protected time to plan, administer and teach the curriculum. It is very 
important to implement geriatrics training in universities and medical 
institutes.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910170007
PMID: 11428069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Eur Heart J. 2001 Jun;22(12):990-6. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2371.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.

Boriani G(1), Biffi M, Martignani C, Gallina M, Branzi A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2371
PMID: 11428834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Eur Heart J. 2001 Jun;22(12):1021-31. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2532.

Reduced costs with bisoprolol treatment for heart failure: an economic analysis 
of the second Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study (CIBIS-II).

[No authors listed]

BACKGROUND: Beta-blockers, used as an adjunctive to diuretics, digoxin and 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, improve survival in chronic heart 
failure. We report a prospectively planned economic analysis of the cost of 
adjunctive beta-blocker therapy in the second Cardiac Insufficiency BIsoprolol 
Study (CIBIS II).
METHODS: Resource utilization data (drug therapy, number of hospital admissions, 
length of hospital stay, ward type) were collected prospectively in all patients 
in CIBIS II. These data were used to determine the additional direct costs 
incurred, and savings made, with bisoprolol therapy. As well as the cost of the 
drug, additional costs related to bisoprolol therapy were added to cover the 
supervision of treatment initiation and titration (four outpatient clinic/office 
visits). Per diem (hospital bed day) costings were carried out for France, 
Germany and the U.K. Diagnosis related group costings were performed for France 
and the U.K. Our analyses took the perspective of a third party payer in France 
and Germany and the National Health Service in the U.K.
RESULTS: Overall, fewer patients were hospitalized in the bisoprolol group, 
there were fewer hospital admissions per patient hospitalized, fewer hospital 
admissions overall, fewer days spent in hospital and fewer days spent in the 
most expensive type of ward. As a consequence the cost of care in the bisoprolol 
group was 5-10% less in all three countries, in the per diem analysis, even 
taking into account the cost of bisoprolol and the extra initiation/up-titration 
visits. The cost per patient treated in the placebo and bisoprolol groups was 
FF35 009 vs FF31 762 in France, DM11 563 vs DM10 784 in Germany and pound4987 vs 
pound4722 in the U.K. The diagnosis related group analysis gave similar results.
INTERPRETATION: Not only did bisoprolol increase survival and reduce hospital 
admissions in CIBIS II, it also cut the cost of care in so doing. This 'win-win' 
situation of positive health benefits associated with cost savings is favourable 
from the point of view of both the patient and health care systems. These 
findings add further support for the use of beta-blockers in chronic heart 
failure.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2000.2532
PMID: 11428837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Jul 15;50(4):979-89. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01546-2.

Costs and effectiveness of staging and treatment options in early-stage 
Hodgkin's disease.

Ng AK(1), Kuntz KM, Mauch PM, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: Using a cost-effectiveness analysis, to weigh the costs and benefits of 
the different staging and treatment options in early-stage Hodgkin's disease.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model for a hypothetical cohort of 
25-year-old patients with early-stage Hodgkin's disease. Markov models were used 
to simulate the lifetime costs and prognosis of each staging and treatment 
strategy. Baseline probabilities and cost estimates were derived from published 
studies and bills of relevant patient cohorts.
RESULTS: Among the six management strategies considered, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of laparotomy and tailored treatment compared with 
mantle and para-aortic-splenic radiation therapy in all clinical stage I-II 
patients was $24,100/quality-adjusted life year, while that of the strategy of 
combined modality therapy in all clinical stage I-II patients compared with 
laparotomy was $61,700/quality-adjusted life year. All the remaining strategies 
were dominated by one of these three strategies. Sensitivity analysis showed 
that the cost-effectiveness ratios were driven predominantly by the 
effectiveness rather than the cost of each strategy. In particular, the analysis 
was heavily influenced by the utility of the post-laparotomy health state.
CONCLUSIONS: In considering the various alternative management strategies in 
early-stage Hodgkin's disease, even very small gains in effectiveness were 
enough to justify the additional costs of more expensive treatment options.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01546-2
PMID: 11429226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Public Health. 2001 May;115(3):165-72. doi: 10.1038/sj/ph/1900759.

Breast and cervical cancer survival: making sense of "league tables".

Botha JL(1), Silcocks PB, Bright N, Redgrave P.

Author information:
(1)Trent Cancer Registry, Weston Park Hospital, Whitham Road, Sheffield, S10 
2SJ, UK.

During 1998, the Department of Health proposed to use survival rates of cervical 
and breast cancer in the 1989/90 incidence cohort as indicators of care. Valid 
interpretation was of concern within Trent and the Trent Cancer Registry 
responded by performing additional analyses. Trent Cancer Registry registrations 
for 1989/90 were re-analysed and the stability of districts' ranks for that 
cohort was investigated using random simulation techniques. Stability of ranks 
across more recent cohorts was investigated and attempts made to use all 
available information. The Department of Health's analyses were confirmed by our 
re-analysis of the 1989/90 cohort: Rotherham residents appeared to have the 
"worst" survival for cervical cancer, and Sheffield residents for breast cancer, 
although not statistically significantly so. Random simulations indicated that 
ranks based on a single cohort are not stable: for example Sheffield (ranked 
tenth for 1-y breast cancer survival) was ranked third or better in 6% of 
randomisations. Ranks were also unstable across cohorts: for example Rotherham 
1-y cervical cancer survival was ranked tenth for 1989/90, fifth for 1991/92 and 
tenth for 1993/94. Analysis of 3-y running averages provided better information 
than the league table approach. Most districts improved over time, to different 
degrees, and similar sized gaps remained between the "best" and the "worst" 
districts. This analysis illustrates the need to be circumspect when 
interpreting "league tables" based on a single year or cohort analysis. League 
tables are based on ranks: clearly a large difference in rank may reflect only 
trivial (ie medically unimportant) differences in actual outcome. Lack of a 
statistically significant difference in survival between two districts does not 
mean their survival is equivalent. Even for a common cancer, like breast cancer, 
rankings were unstable from cohort to cohort. At the Registry we propose to 
perform these trend analyses routinely in future, adjusting, when possible, for 
the effects of deprivation and stage at diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1038/sj/ph/1900759
PMID: 11429710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2001 Jun;26(3):487-522. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-26-3-487.

Reexamining the evidence of an ecological association between income inequality 
and health.

Mellor JM(1), Milyo J.

Author information:
(1)College of William and Mary, USA.

Comment in
    J Health Polit Policy Law. 2001 Jun;26(3):523-32.
    J Health Polit Policy Law. 2001 Jun;26(3):533-41.

Several recent studies have made the provocative claim that income inequality is 
an important determinant of population health. The primary evidence for this 
hypothesis is the repeated finding--across countries and across U.S. 
states--that there is an association between income inequality and aggregate 
health outcomes. However, most of these studies examine only a single cross 
section of data and employ few (or even no) control variables. We examine the 
relationship between income inequality and aggregate health outcomes across 
thirty countries over a four-decade span and across forty-eight U.S. states over 
five decades. In large part, our findings contradict previous claims.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-26-3-487
PMID: 11430248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 May;13 Suppl 1:S35-41.

Improving on PPI-based therapy of GORD.

Sachs G(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Ulcer Research and Education, University of California, Los 
Angeles, USA. gsachs@ucla.edu

Blockade of the gastric acid pump, hydrogen-potassium adenosine triphosphatase 
(H+,K+-ATPase), by proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) is one of the most effective 
treatments for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). In ideal terms, 
however, the inhibition of acid secretion should occur rapidly, on the first 
dose, and remain virtually complete in a dose-dependent manner. Several aspects 
of PPI biochemistry prevent the achievement of this ideal. PPIs target the final 
step of acid secretion and, due to the covalent nature of their inhibition of 
H+,K+-ATPase, cause suppression of acid secretion long after the drug has been 
eliminated. Their disadvantages stem from their mechanism of action: they 
require accumulation and activation in active parietal cells and have short 
plasma half-lives, hence a relatively slow onset of action. An extension of PPI 
plasma half-lives is an obvious goal, possibly via exploitation of probable 
differences in the metabolism of the two enantiomers (structural mirror images) 
present in current PPI formulations: e.g., clinical data on the S-enantiomer of 
omeprazole (esomeprazole) suggest some improvement in acid control. An 
alternative is to generate a pro-drug of a PPI; plasma levels of the PPI would 
thus depend on release of the active metabolite from the pro-drug, again 
extending drug half-life. Another area of active investigation is the 
development of acid-pump antagonists to inhibit acid secretion at its final 
step.

PMID: 11430507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Acta Paediatr. 2001 May;90(5):477-82.

Introduction of solids and formula to breastfed infants: a longitudinal 
prospective study in Uppsala, Sweden.

Hörnell A(1), Hofvander Y, Kylberg E.

Author information:
(1)Section for International Maternal and Child Health, Department of Women's 
and Children's Health, Uppsala University, Sweden.

The introduction of solids and formula was studied among 506 breastfed infants 
in Uppsala, Sweden, based on daily recordings during the first year. The mothers 
had previously breastfed at least 1 infant for at least 4 mo. Thirty-four per 
cent of the infants were introduced to solids before the age of 4 mo (4-6 mo is 
recommended in Sweden). Accustoming the infants to solids was a lengthy process. 
Life-table analyses showed a median duration of 28 d from the first introduction 
of solids to consumption of >10 ml daily, and 46 d before the infants ate > or = 
100 ml of solids in 1 d for the first time. These durations were longer the 
younger the infant was at the introduction of solids. Thirty-two per cent of 
infants given formula consumed > or = 100 ml the first time it was given, and 
49% did so within I wk, regardless of infant age.
CONCLUSION: Parents and healthcare personnel need to be aware that accustoming 
breastfed infants to solid food is a lengthy process, and that there is a strong 
age effect on this duration. It is also important to consider what consequences 
the (usually) more abrupt introduction of formula might have on breastfeeding.

PMID: 11430704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Minerva Ginecol. 2001 Aug;53(4):257-77.

[HRT: state of the art].

[Article in Italian]

Grio R(1), Febo G, Colla F, Nicolosi MG.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Discipline Ginecologiche ed Ostetriche, Cattedra B, 
Università degli Studi, Turin, Italy.

Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in postmenopause represents the most advanced 
frontier of preventive medicine in a rapidly evolving society that aims to 
emphasise, today as in the past, the leading role of women. While modern 
medicine has extended the average life expectancy of women today, it is now the 
task to enhance the quality of these extra years. HRT prevents cardiovascular 
disease, osteoporosis, disorders relating to changes in pelvic connective tissue 
and genitourinary tissues, and it can also have a positive influence on the 
psycho-affective sphere and, perhaps, alterations in cognitive capacity. 
Cultural delays and alternate phases of optimism and alarm are not always backed 
by solid scientific knowledge. Epidemiological research over the past years has 
underlined the oncological risk of using estrogens, even if associated with 
progestin, without the necessary methodological clarity and efficacy. From the 
data reported in the international literature and on the basis of over ten years 
experience accumulated at Department B of Gynecology and Obstetrics of Turin 
University, it appears that the oncogenic risk in women taking HRT is not 
significantly higher if the indications are strictly respected and, when 
necessary, progestin is associated with estrogen.

PMID: 11431642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2001 May-Jun;43(6):477-93. doi:
10.1053/pcad.2001.24599.

Timing of surgery in aortic stenosis.

Aikawa K(1), Otto CM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.

In adults with valvular stenosis, the importance of prompt aortic valve 
replacement once symptoms occur is well known. The operative mortality for 
aortic valve replacement has improved dramatically over the past 4 decades and 
remains the only effective therapy for severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. 
Aortic valve replacement in patients with left ventricular dysfunction has a 
high operative mortality, although those patients who do not undergo surgery at 
all have an even worse outcome. While issues to consider include the presence or 
absence of coronary artery disease and expected hemodynamics of the prosthetic 
valve compared with the native valve, when in doubt, one should err on the side 
of surgical intervention. Elderly age is not a contraindication to aortic valve 
replacement for severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, although there is a higher 
prevalence of comorbid disease and higher operative mortality. Life expectancy 
is significantly prolonged and quality of life is significantly improved in the 
elderly who survive surgery. Indications for surgery in asymptomatic patients 
are controversial. We do not recommend valve replacement in asymptomatic 
patients at this time due to the known risks of surgery and a prosthetic valve 
and the lack of evidence for benefit of early surgery. Patients undergoing 
coronary bypass surgery should be considered for concomitant aortic valve 
surgery for moderate aortic stenosis that is expected to progress to severe 
stenosis in less than 5 years.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.

DOI: 10.1053/pcad.2001.24599
PMID: 11431802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2001 May;38(3):338-40.

[Predictors for mortality of the community elderly--longitudinal study by 
TMIG-LISA].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki T.

PMID: 11431886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2001 May;38(3):341-3. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.38.341.

[Active life expectancy: factors influencing regional and gender differences].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsuji I(1), Sauvaget C, Hisamichi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine.

Active life expectancy (ALE) is defined as an expected duration to be spent with 
a certain level of physical/mental function. The objectives of this article are 
to indicate ALE values based on our prospective observation, and to discuss 
factors influencing regional and gender differences in ALE values. We estimated 
ALE without disability in basic activities of daily living (ADL) on a 5% random 
sample (n = 3,459) of the residents aged 65 years and over in Sendai City 
between 1988 and 1991. At the age 65, ALE was 14.7 years for men and 17.7 years 
for women. ALE occupied 91% of the total life expectancy for men and 87% for 
women. As compared with the reports for the American elderly, ALE was longer in 
Sendai than in the United States. The duration to be spent with disability was 
shorter among the subjects in Sendai. We estimated ALEs in three functional 
areas: basic ADL, instrumental ADL, and mobility, on all the residents aged 65 
years and over (n = 3,590) at Wakuya Town between 1994 and 1996. For both sexes, 
ALE in IADL was shorter than those in basic ADL and mobility. The development 
and progression of disability were different between sexes: men experienced 
disability at a younger age and progressed at a faster rate than women.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.38.341
PMID: 11431887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2001 May;38(3):344-6.

[A period between life expectancy at any age and active life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasumura S.

PMID: 11431888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
