

223. Gac Med Mex. 2001 May-Jun;137(3):191-202.

[Trends for bacteremia and risk factors for death in a tertiary hospital in 
Mexico City. 1981-1992].

[Article in Spanish]

Sifuentes-Osornio J(1), Guerrero-Almeida MC, Ponce de León-Garduño LA, 
Guerrero-Almeida ML.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Microbiología Clínica, Departamento de Infectología, Instituto 
Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Vasco de Quiroga 15, 
México, D.F. 14000. México. JSO@quetzal.innsz.mx

OBJECTIVE: To describe the trends and risk factors of death for bacteremia in 
adult from a tertiary-care center from 1981 to 1992.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We randomly included 20% of bacteremic episodes per year.
RESULTS: 47,618 blood-cultures from 19,530 patients, 3428 patients (17.6%) had 
bacteremia (285/y). From 600 episodes (50/y), 307 were from men, 368 were 
hospital-acquired (HA), and 88% were monomicrobial. Diabetes mellitus was seen 
in 103 cases, cirrhosis of the liver in 98, and AIDS in 33, among others. The 
main microorganisms were: Escherichia coli (177), Klebsiella pneumoniae (53), 
Enterobacter (50), Salmonella (45) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (35); 
coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) (116), Staphylococcus aureus (56), and 
enterococci (22), and Candida (20). CNS decreased during the study (p < 0.01), 
but Candida spp., Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and enterococci increased (p < 
0.01). The crude mortality of the HA bacteremia was 70.8%, and 29.2% in the case 
of community-acquired, the mortality attributable to HA bacteremia was 41.6%. 
The main risk factors were: cardiac valvular disease (p < 0.001), stay at the 
intensive-care unit (p < 0.001), sepsis (p < 0.001), and pneumonia (p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: Bacteremia had a significant impact on mortality during the study 
period that has not change despite opportune therapy, Enterococci and candida 
have emerged as significant pathogens.

PMID: 11432088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Jul 1;19(13):3182-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.13.3182.

Delay of the diagnostic lumbar puncture and intrathecal chemotherapy in children 
with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who undergo routine corticosteroid testing: 
Tokyo Children's Cancer Study Group study L89-12.

Manabe A(1), Tsuchida M, Hanada R, Ikuta K, Toyoda Y, Okimoto Y, Ishimoto K, 
Okawa H, Ohara A, Kaneko T, Koike K, Sato T, Sugita K, Bessho F, Hoshi Y, Maeda 
M, Kinoshita A, Saito T, Tsunematsu Y, Nakazawa S.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Children's Cancer Study Group, Japan. manabe@ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To determine the effects of eliminating initial lumbar punctures in 418 
consecutively treated children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were enrolled onto a trial conducted in central 
Japan between 1989 and 1992. Treatment consisted of standard four-drug induction 
therapy followed by a risk-based intensification phase, reinduction therapy, 
late intensification, and remission maintenance therapy (total of 104 weeks). 
The initial lumbar puncture, with an intrathecal injection of chemotherapy, was 
performed after 1 week of prednisolone sensitivity testing (day 8). End points 
included response to prednisolone, CNS status at the time of the day 8 lumbar 
puncture, subsequent adverse events in CNS and bone marrow, and event-free 
survival (EFS).
RESULTS: The remission induction rate was 93.1% with a 6-year EFS rate (+/- SE) 
of 68.7% +/- 2.4%, which is similar to historical results for patients who 
received their diagnostic lumbar puncture and first instillation of intrathecal 
chemotherapy on day 0. Overall, 84.5% of the patients had good responses to 
prednisolone, whereas 15.5% had poor responses. Clinical outcome was strikingly 
better for the good responders (6-year EFS, 74.1% +/- 2.5% compared with 40.1% 
+/- 6.4% for patients with poor responses), suggesting that omission of 
intrathecal chemotherapy did not alter the predictive value of drug sensitivity 
testing. Eighteen patients experienced CNS relapse as their first adverse event 
(cumulative risk, 5.1%; 95% confidence interval, 2.7% to 7.4%), coincident with 
reports from groups using conventional strategies of CNS clinical management. 
Bleeding into the CSF at the time of the day 8 lumbar puncture was apparent in 
29 cases (8.1%), but leukemic blasts were identified in only two.
CONCLUSION: Delay of the initial lumbar puncture and intrathecal injection of 
chemotherapy seems to be feasible in children with ALL. Further controlled 
evaluations are needed to establish the validity of this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.13.3182
PMID: 11432884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Pediatrics. 2001 Jul;108(1):116-22. doi: 10.1542/peds.108.1.116.

Fluctuations in symptoms in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children: the 
first 10 years of life.

Gray L(1), Newell ML, Thorne C, Peckham C, Levy J; European Collaborative Study.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Health, University College, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2002 Jan-Feb;136(1):32.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2002 Jan;5(1):25.

OBJECTIVE: To describe patterns of clinical and immunologic progression in 
children who are vertically infected with the human immunodeficiency virus.
METHODS: Children who were born to mothers who were infected with the human 
immunodeficiency virus in 11 European centers were enrolled at birth in a 
prospective study and followed according to a standard protocol. At each visit, 
a clinical and immunologic class was allocated according to guidelines of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Progression to serious disease 
and death was assessed, allowing for available and actual antiretroviral therapy 
(ART). CDC class at each visit was assessed cross-sectionally.
RESULTS: More than 15% of infected children will have progressed to category C 
or death by age 1 year and nearly 50% by 10 years. Just under 20% of children 
will have evidence of severe immunodeficiency by age 1 and 75% by 10 years. In 
general, immune status poorly reflected clinical condition. Children who were 
born after 1994, when the recommendation of earlier initiation of more active 
therapy was introduced, were significantly less likely to progress than those 
who were born when treatment was not widely available or was largely confined to 
zidovudine monotherapy. Estimated progression to CDC class C or death initially 
was faster in untreated than in treated children, but by 10 years estimated 
cumulative progression was similar in both groups. Treatment started before 
class C disease was associated with significantly slower progression. 
Cross-sectional analysis showed that children largely are symptom-free 
throughout their lives. After 4 years of age, fewer than 25% of infected 
children had symptoms at any one time, irrespective of ART received.
CONCLUSION: Vertically infected children are without serious symptoms or signs 
for most of the time. The prognosis has improved with more widespread 
availability and use of combination ART. These findings have implications for 
health, education, and other support-service provision.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.108.1.116
PMID: 11433063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2001 Jun;31(3):241-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1010651618537.

The specificity of peptide chain extension by N-carboxyanhydrides.

Wen KE(1), Orgel LE.

Author information:
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 N. Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, 
California 92037, USA.

We have used amino acids activated by carbonyldiimidazole to study the 
enantiospecificity of peptide elongation in aqueous solution. Peptide 'primers' 
Glu10 and Ala3Glu10 were elongated with the enantiomers of arginine, glutamic 
acid, asparagine, phenylalanine, serine and valine. The homochiral addition was 
always the more efficient reaction; the enantiospecificity was large in some 
cases but very small in others. In every case Ala3Glu10 was elongated more 
efficiently than Glu10.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010651618537
PMID: 11434103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. MMW Fortschr Med. 2001 May 28;143 Suppl 2:93.

[Parkinson patients. Normal life expectancy with selegiline?].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11434273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. AIHAJ. 2001 May-Jun;62(3):313-21. doi: 10.1080/15298660108984633.

Test methods for evaluating the filtration and particulate emission 
characteristics of vacuum cleaners.

Willeke K(1), Trakumas S, Grinshpun SA, Reponen T, Trunov M, Friedman W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Cincinnati, OH 45267-0056, 
USA. Klaus.Willeke@uc.edu

The overall filtration efficiency of a vacuum cleaner traditionally has been 
tested by placing the vacuum cleaner in a test chamber and measuring aerosol 
concentrations at the chamber inlet and outlet. The chamber test method was 
refined and validated in this study. However, this chamber test method shows an 
overall filtration efficiency of close to 100% for most of the industrial vacuum 
cleaners and for most of the newly developed household vacuum cleaners of 
midprice range or higher because all these vacuum cleaners have a 
high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) or other highly efficient filter 
installed at the exhaust. A new test method was therefore developed through 
which the vacuum cleaner was probed in various internal locations so that the 
collection efficiency of the individual components could be determined. For 
example, the aerosol concentration upstream of the final HEPA filter can thus be 
measured, which permits one to estimate the life expectancy of this expensive 
component. The probed testing method is particularly suitable for field 
evaluations of vacuum cleaners because it uses compact, battery-operated optical 
particle size spectrometers with internal data storage. Both chamber and probed 
tests gave the same results for the aerosol filtration efficiency. The probed 
testing method, however, also gives information on the performance of the 
individual components in a vacuum cleaner. It also can be used to determine the 
dust pickup efficiency and the degree of reaerosolization of particles collected 
in the vacuum cleaner.

DOI: 10.1080/15298660108984633
PMID: 11434437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Med Vet Entomol. 2001 Jun;15(2):167-76. doi:
10.1046/j.0269-283x.2001.00305.x.

Ambient temperature effects on the extrinsic incubation period of Wuchereria 
bancrofti in Aedes polynesiensis: implications for filariasis transmission 
dynamics and distribution in French Polynesia.

Lardeux F(1), Cheffort J.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, Montpellier, France. 
lardeux@mpl.ird.fr

Temperature effects on development of the human filarial parasite Wuchereria 
bancrofti (Cobbold) (Filaridea: Onchocercidae) in the main Pacific vector Aedes 
polynesiensis Marks (Diptera: Culicidae) are analysed in relation to ambient 
climatic conditions. A statistical model of the extrinsic cycle duration as a 
function of temperature is described and used to distinguish three patterns of 
W. bancrofti transmission dynamics: continuous, fluctuating and discontinuous, 
occurring from north to south geographically among French Polynesian 
archipelagos. In the northerly Marquesas Islands (8-11 degrees S) filariasis 
transmission is continuous and very active, facilitated by perennially high 
temperatures combined with constantly high rates of man-vector contact. In the 
southerly Australes Islands (21-28 degrees S) filariasis transmission is 
seasonally discontinuous and, during the cooler months (May-September), the 
model predicts virtually no transmission because the cycle duration exceeds the 
life expectancy of the vector. In the Society Islands (16-18 degrees S), between 
the Marquesas and Australes, transmission is predicted to be intermediate as 
expected from their latitude, with seasonally fluctuating transmission 
potential. In the Tuamotu Islands (also geographically intermediate: 14-23 
degrees S), with theoretically perennial transmission potential, transmission 
occurs only intermittently, being limited by other human and environmental 
factors whereby man-vector contact is confined to seasonal agricultural 
situations. Generally, among French Polynesian archipelagos where Aedes 
polynesiensis is the vector, the transmission potential for W. bancrofti and 
resulting disease manifestations of lymphatic filariasis in humans are 
correlated with ambient temperature due to the degree of southern latitude.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0269-283x.2001.00305.x
PMID: 11434550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Jul 9;161(13):1645-52. doi:
10.1001/archinte.161.13.1645.

Ten years of life: Is it a matter of choice?

Fraser GE(1), Shavlik DJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Research, School of Public Health, Loma Linda University, 
Nichol Hall, Room 2008, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA. gfraser@sph.llu.edu

BACKGROUND: Relative risk estimates suggest that effective implementation of 
behaviors commonly advocated in preventive medicine should increase life 
expectancy, although there is little direct evidence.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that choices regarding diet, exercise, and 
smoking influence life expectancy.
METHODS: A total of 34 192 California Seventh-Day Adventists (75% of those 
eligible) were enrolled in a cohort and followed up from 1976 to 1988. A mailed 
questionnaire provided dietary and other exposure information at study baseline. 
Mortality for all subjects was ascertained by matching to state death tapes and 
the National Death Index.
RESULTS: California Adventists have higher life expectancies at the age of 30 
years than other white Californians by 7.28 years (95% confidence interval, 
6.59-7.97 years) in men and by 4.42 years (95% confidence interval, 3.96-4.88 
years) in women, giving them perhaps the highest life expectancy of any formally 
described population. Commonly observed combinations of diet, exercise, body 
mass index, past smoking habits, and hormone replacement therapy (in women) can 
account for differences of up to 10 years of life expectancy among Adventists. A 
comparison of life expectancy when these factors take high-risk compared with 
low-risk values shows independent effects that vary between 1.06 and 2.74 years 
for different variables. The effect of each variable is assessed with all others 
at either medium- or high-risk levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Choices regarding diet, exercise, cigarette smoking, body weight, 
and hormone replacement therapy, in combination, appear to change life 
expectancy by many years. The longevity experience of Adventists probably 
demonstrates the beneficial effects of more optimal behaviors.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.13.1645
PMID: 11434797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 2001 May-Jun;29(3):113-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-0546(01)79029-5.

[Common variable immunodeficiency. Review].

[Article in Spanish]

Iglesias Alzueta J(1), Matamoros Florí N.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Inmunología, Hospital Son Dureta, Palma de Mallorca, España.

Common variable immunodeficiency (CVI) is a primary immunodeficiency 
characterized by deficient antibody production. The cause of this 
immunodeficiency is unknown; several in vitro studies have revealed a 
significant number of alterations that could explain the hypogammaglobulinemia 
present in this syndrome. Among those described are primary B cell alterations, 
numerical and functional T cell abnormalities, and defects in the interaction 
between accessory cells. The alteration typical of CVI is the failure of B 
lymphocytes to differentiate from antibody-producing cells, resulting in 
deficient immunoglobulin secretion. Among the T cell abnormalities described are 
a diminished proliferative response to mitogens and antigens, alterations in the 
level of production of several cytokines, especially reduction in the production 
of IL-2, diminished antigen-specific T cells and increase basal apoptosis after 
stimulation. Antigen presenting cells, monocytes and dendritic cells can also 
present alterations and contribute to deficient antigen response. The clinical 
manifestations of these patients is variable; most present recurrent bacterial 
infections due to encapsulated bacteria, especially sinusitis, otitis, 
bronchitis, and pneumonias. A few patients can present mycobacterial or fungal 
infection and occasionally Pneumocystis carinii. Viral infection is uncommon in 
these patients although some suffer recurrent herpes zoster infection. Clinical 
features of septicemia and central nervous system infections are less frequent. 
The incidence of digestive tract infections in these patients is high. The most 
common cause of diarrhea is Giardia lamblia; Salmonella, Shigella and 
Campylobacter are also common pathogens. Autoimmune disease is also more 
prevalent in these patients than in the general population. The most frequently 
associated diseases are hemolytic anemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
and autoimmune neutropenia. Cancer is also frequently associated with CVI, the 
most common forms being lymphoproliferative syndromes, especially non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma. Granulomas are a unusual manifestation in some patients with CVI; 
their localization varies but the most commonly affected organs are the spleen 
and lungs. Some authors have compared these granulomas with those characterizing 
sarcoidosis, especially when appearing in the lung. Diagnosis of CVI is usually 
by exclusion of other diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, immotile cilia syndrome 
or allergic processes. CVI should be suspected in all patients with recurrent 
bacterial infections especially those localized in the respiratory tract. Other 
primary immunodeficiencies which present clinical findings similar to CVI and 
which should be ruled out are selective IgG subclass deficiency, IgA deficiency 
and selective deficiency in the response to polysaccharide antigens with normal 
immunoglobulin levels. The serum hypogammaglobulinemia present in all patients 
with CVI provides the diagnostic key. The age at which clinical manifestations 
appear, the absence of familial antecedents and the presence of circulating B 
lymphocytes form the basis of the differential diagnosis between X-linked 
agammaglobulinemia and autosomal recessive forms. The treatment of choice of 
patients with CVI is treatment with human gamma-globulin. Currently, the most 
common route of administration is intravenous; these molecules have a half-life 
of approximately 21 days and a high degree of safety concerning the possible 
transmission of viral infections. Adverse reactions are generally few and 
clinically unimportant. The most frequently used doses oscillate between 200 and 
400 mg/kg body weight every 2-4 weeks. Both the dose and its frequency should be 
personalized for each patient. Early diagnosis of patients with CVI, application 
of treatment with appropriate antibiotics for infections and treatment with 
gamma-globulins prevent long-term complications of this disease and dramatically 
improve the quality of life and life expectancy of these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-0546(01)79029-5
PMID: 11434884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Am J Cardiol. 2001 Jun 28;87(12A):3D-13D. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01671-x.

Intermittent claudication: magnitude of the problem, patient evaluation, and 
therapeutic strategies.

Schmieder FA(1), Comerota AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Temple University School of Medicine, Temple 
University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19140, USA.

Intermittent claudication (IC), the symptom of exercise-induced muscle ischemia 
of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), afflicts and limits the activities of a 
significant number of patients. Incidence and prevalence of IC depends on the 
population studied and the diagnostic instruments used. In large studies, 
prevalence has ranged from 3% to 10%, with a sharp increase in those aged > or 
=70 years. Over the next 20 years, the total number of patients affected is 
expected to increase significantly due to anticipated demographic changes. 
Analysis of the natural history of IC demonstrates that the risk of 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality far exceeds that of severe limb ischemia 
or limb loss. In fact, only 2% to 4% of all patients with IC will require a 
major amputation in their lifetime. However, life expectancy is approximately 10 
years less than that of an age-matched cohort. By now, PAD is well recognized as 
a marker of systemic atherosclerosis. The cornerstone of patient evaluation is a 
history and physical examination, including a detailed atherosclerotic 
risk-factor assessment. In the differential diagnosis of IC, clinicians should 
consider etiologies such as arthritis, spinal stenosis, radiculopathy, venous 
claudication, or inflammatory processes. In >80% of all patients, it is possible 
to locate the responsible arterial segment by combining the location and 
severity of pain with a pulse examination. Noninvasive diagnostic studies help 
determine the level of disease, may unmask a hemodynamically significant 
stenosis, and are useful in follow-up. Arteriography is reserved for patients in 
whom the decision for revascularization has been made. Knowing the anatomic 
detail of a lesion allows the clinician to determine whether and what type of 
intervention is feasible. Standard therapy for all patients should be directed 
at both peripheral and systemic atherosclerosis, beginning with risk-factor 
modification in the form of smoking cessation, optimal diabetes control, and 
lipid normalization. The benefits of supervised exercise rehabilitation include 
significantly increased walking distance and enhanced quality of life. Platelet 
inhibition has been shown to reduce the risk of ischemic stroke, myocardial 
infarction, and vascular death and should be prescribed for all but those in 
whom it is medically contraindicated. Symptom-specific pharmacotherapy with a 
broad range of medications has yielded disappointing results in the past. 
However, recent studies have demonstrated that patients receiving the novel 
agent cilostazol experienced increases in walking distance and improvements in 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01671-x
PMID: 11434894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2001 Jul;97(1):80-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-2115(00)00502-9.

Is platinum-based chemotherapy with paclitaxel effective in optimally debulked 
patients with advanced ovarian cancer?

Roovers JP(1), Sijmons EA, van Leeuwen JH, Mol BW, Witteveen PO, Slee PH, Heintz 
AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medical Center, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. j.p.roovers@azu.nl

OBJECTIVE: Suboptimally debulked patients with advanced ovarian cancer who are 
treated with a combination of cisplatin plus paclitaxel (TP therapy) have a 
better survival as compared to patients treated with a combination of cisplatin 
plus cyclophosphamide (CP therapy), but this advantage has not been demonstrated 
in optimally debulked patients. We performed a retrospective study to compare 
the effectiveness of TP therapy and CP therapy in optimally debulked patients.
STUDY DESIGN: From 1991 to 1996, 87 consecutive patients with advanced ovarian 
cancer treated in the University Hospital Utrecht and the St. Antonius Hospital 
were included in the study. Overall survival (OS) of patients treated with TP or 
CP were compared. Multivariable Cox-regression analysis was used to calculate a 
hazard rate ratio (HRR) for OS.
RESULTS: In the study period, 51 patients were treated with CP, and 36 patients 
were treated with TP. In the 18 patients with a tumorrest >2cm, there was a 
clear, but not statistically significant benefit from TP. In 69 patients with a 
tumorrest <or=2cm, life expectancy was not increased in patients treated with TP 
as compared to patients treated with CP (HRR 0.9 (95% CI 0.4-1.9)).
CONCLUSION: We could not show that ovarian cancer patients with residual disease 
of <or=2cm who were treated with TP had better survival as compared to patients 
who were treated with CP. Taking into account the high costs of treatment with 
TP, a randomized trial comparing the effects of TP therapy and CP therapy in 
optimally debulked patients is warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-2115(00)00502-9
PMID: 11435015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. QJM. 2001 Jul;94(7):365-72. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/94.7.365.

Cost-effectiveness of screening and extended anticoagulation for carriers of 
both factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A.

Marchetti M(1), Quaglini S, Barosi G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Informatics, IRCCS Policlinico S.Matteo, and. 
Department of Computer Science and Systems, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. 
marchettim@smatteo.pv.it

Carriers of a double thrombophilic mutation (factor V Leiden and prothrombin 
G20210A) are at high risk of a recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE), and may 
benefit from a longer course of secondary prophylaxis. We examined the costs and 
health benefits of screening for both the mutations, provided that double 
heterozygotes undergo 2 years of anticoagulation as compared to the standard 6 
months. We thus pooled the available evidence and calculated that the OR for 
recurrence in double heterozygotes was 5.9 (95% CI 2.65-13.20). A Markov model 
tracked patients' health lifelong, and calculated that prolonged prophylaxis 
saved 26 quality-adjusted days of life and $410 per double heterozygote treated. 
Screening all the patients with venous thromboembolism thus provided one 
additional day of life at the cost of 13624 $/QALY (95% CI 12 965-22 889). 
Screening was not cost-effective in those cohorts with a low prevalence of the 
mutations, a high bleeding risk or in those where prophylaxis prevented <65% of 
recurrences. Screening for factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A, with 
prolonged prophylaxis of double carriers, is cost-effective in most patients 
with VTE.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/94.7.365
PMID: 11435632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Jul;34(1):114-21. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.113486.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the femoropopliteal arteries in limbs 
with chronic critical lower limb ischemia.

Löfberg AM(1), Karacagil S, Ljungman C, Westman B, Boström A, Hellberg A, 
Ostholm G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to evaluate the results of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of femoropopliteal arteries in patients with 
subcritical or critical lower limb ischemia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ninety-two patients underwent 121 PTA procedures, 68 were 
of the superficial femoral artery (SFA), 13 of the popliteal and 40 of both 
arteries. Fifty-seven procedures were performed for treatment of occlusions. 
Eighty-four patients (94 procedures) were monitored with duplex scanning.
RESULTS: Technical success rate was 88%. Primary success rates at 12 and 60 
months in the whole series were 40% and 27%, respectively. The primary success 
rate in limbs with SFA occlusion of longer than 5 cm was only 12% after 5 years 
compared with 32% if the occlusion was </= 5 cm in length (P <.01). The primary 
success rate at 60 months was 53% in limbs with single SFA stenosis and 42% in 
those with multiple stenoses (P = NS). Limb salvage rate for combined 
endovascular and vascular interventions was 86% at 5 years. The overall survival 
rate was 51% at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The results of femoropopliteal PTA performed for treatment of 
subcritical or critical lower limb ischemia seemed to be inferior to the results 
of infrainguinal bypass grafting reported in literature. However, because the 
PTA procedure does not preclude the performance of bypass grafting, it might be 
an alternative to surgical intervention in limbs with stenotic femoropopliteal 
lesions. PTA might also be considered in patients with high surgical risk and 
limited life expectancy, having short occlusive lesions (< 5 cm).

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.113486
PMID: 11436083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Jul;34(1):133-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.113979.

Infrainguinal revascularizations in octogenarians and septuagenarians.

Chang JB(1), Stein TA.

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University and the Long Island 
Vascular Center, NY 11576, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Severe atherosclerosis is a major contributor for death in 
octogenarians and a cause of multiple vascular-related ailments, including 
claudication and limb loss. Advanced age and health may limit the success of 
limb-salvaging procedures. Mortality, morbidity, and outcome of infrainguinal 
grafts have been examined in octogenarians and septuagenarians.
METHODS: After 128 femoropopliteal and 99 femorotibial bypass grafts in 209 
octogenarians and 242 femoropopliteal and 166 femorotibial bypass grafts in 383 
septuagenarians, survival, primary patency, limb salvage, myocardial infarction 
and stroke rates were determined. The survival, myocardial infarction, and 
stroke rates of controls, 1514 octogenarians and 2011 septuagenarians, were 
compared.
RESULTS: After a bypass graft, 5-year survival of octogenarians (54%) and 
septuagenarians (64%) was similar (P >.2) and was 89% and 89% for controls. The 
5-year primary patency rates were 74% for octogenarians and 68% for 
septuagenarians (P >.2). Five-year limb salvage rates were 86% for octogenarians 
and 86% for septuagenarians. After a bypass graft, the respective rates of 
myocardial infarction were 4.1% and 3.9% per year and of a stroke 3.2% and 3.2% 
per year for octogenarians and septuagenarians, which occurred more frequently 
(P <.05) than in controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Death and cardiovascular events are higher after revascularization 
in octogenarians and septuagenarians, compared with controls, and are related to 
the severity of atherosclerosis and not age. Patency rates are excellent and 
similar. Limb salvage procedures should be considered for most octogenarians.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.113979
PMID: 11436086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(6):553-60.

On measuring inequalities in health.

Wolfson M(1), Rowe G.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Canada, Analysis and Development Field, 26-K, R.H. Coats Building, 
Ottawa, K1A 0T6, Canada. wolfson@statcan.ca

In a recent series of papers, Murray et al. have put forward a number of 
important ideas regarding the measurement of inequalities in health. In this 
paper we agree with some of these ideas but draw attention to one key aspect of 
their approach--measuring inequalities on the basis of small area data--which is 
flawed. A numerical example is presented to illustrate the problem. An 
alternative approach drawing on longitudinal data is outlined, which preserves 
and enhances the most desirable aspects of their proposal. These include the use 
of a life course perspective, and the consideration of non-fatal health outcomes 
as well as the more usual information on mortality patterns.

PMCID: PMC2566445
PMID: 11436478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Seizure. 2001 Apr;10(3):203-7. doi: 10.1053/seiz.2000.0489.

The attitude of courts in England to compensation for post-traumatic epilepsy.

Walker MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurology, Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, 
London WC1N 3BG, UK. m.walker@ion.ucl.ac.uk

The attitudes of courts in England to the assessment of damages for 
post-traumatic epilepsy have dramatically changed over the last 20-30 years. In 
assessing damages for post-traumatic epilepsy the courts are faced with a number 
of considerations: epilepsy can appear several years after the injury; epilepsy 
is not a homogeneous condition; the eventual prognosis is unknown; the epilepsy 
may not have been directly due to the trauma; and epilepsy affects life 
expectancy and employment. Damages were originally fixed at the point of 
compensation, and these rather crude calculations led to both over- and 
under-compensation. This situation was improved in 1985, when courts were 
permitted to award damages on the assumption that epilepsy would not occur or 
worsen, and further damages should these assumptions prove to be incorrect. The 
courts in England still depend, however, upon the evidence of expert witnesses 
chosen by the plaintiff and defendant. A tension thus exists between the duty of 
expert witnesses to the court and the understandable inclination of expert 
witnesses to support the party that has instructed them. The Woolf report has 
led to changes in the responsibilities of expert witnesses, and will hopefully 
remedy many of the inconsistencies and inequities that occur.

Copyright 2001 BEA Trading Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/seiz.2000.0489
PMID: 11437620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Mech Ageing Dev. 2001 Sep;122(12):1221-55. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00262-7.

Mutant and genetically modified mice as models for studying the relationship 
between aging and carcinogenesis.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Carcinogenesis and Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research 
Institute of Oncology, Pesochny-2, 197758, St Petersburg, Russia. aging@mail.ru

Increased interest is emerging in using mouse models to assess the genetics of 
aging and age-related diseases, including cancer. However, only limited 
information is available regarding the relationship between aging and 
spontaneous tumor development in genetically modified mice. Analysis of various 
transgenic and knockout rodent models with either a shortened or an extended 
life span, provides a unique opportunity to evaluate interactions of genes 
involved in the aging process and carcinogenesis. There are only a few models 
which show life span extension. Ames dwarf mutant mice, p66(-/-) knockout mice, 
alpha MUPA and MGMT transgenic mice live longer than wild-type strains. The 
incidence of spontaneous tumors in these mutant mice was usually similar to 
those in controls, whereas the latent period of tumor development was increased. 
Practically all models of accelerated aging showed increased incidence and 
shorter latency of tumors. This phenomenon has been observed in animals which 
display a phenotype that more closely resembles natural aging, and in animals 
which manifest only some features of the normal aging process. These 
observations are in agreement with an earlier established positive correlation 
between tumor incidence and the rate of tumor incidence increase associated with 
aging and the aging rate in a population. Thus, genetically modified animals are 
a valuable tool in unravelling mechanisms underlying aging and cancer. Systemic 
evaluation of newly generated models should include onco-gerontological studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00262-7
PMID: 11438116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2001 Jul;76(7):397-402.

[Clinical course of cytomegalovirus retinitis with the different antiretroviral 
therapies in our hospital].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno Ruiz O(1), Ferrer Novella E, Torrón Fernández C, Arazo Garcés P, Melcon 
Sánchez B, Honrubia López FM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza.

PURPOSE: A study of protease inhibitors on CMV retinitis in HIV infected 
hospital patients.
METHOD: A retrospective study was performed in 485 diagnosed of AIDS, between 
January, 1990 and December 1998. Among those, 81 patients who were diagnosed of 
CMV retinitis, the following was studied: anti-retroviral treatment, anti CMV 
treatment, survival time and CD4 lymphocyte count.
RESULTS: Treatment with protease inhibitors in HIV patients showed an increase 
in life expectancy, reduced the incidence of CMV retinitis and a reduction in 
CMV retinitis prevention treatment was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with protease inhibitors has reduced the rate of CMV 
retinitis in HIV patients.

PMID: 11438875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 2001 Jun;25(6):880-6. doi: 
10.1038/sj.ijo.0801620.

Relationship between total and regional bone mineral density and menopausal 
state, body composition and life style factors in overweight Japanese women.

Lee JS(1), Kawakubo K, Sato H, Kobayashi Y, Haruna Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Health Promotion Sciences, Graduate School 
of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, 
Japan. jslee-tky@umin.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether menopausal state, body composition and 
lifestyle factors influence total and regional bone mineral density in 
overweight Japanese women.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study of women who were recruited to the weight 
reduction program held at community-based health promotion center in Tokyo area.
SUBJECTS: A total of 178 women with a mean age of 48 y old (20-69 y) with a 
clear menstrual history and BMI over 24.
MEASUREMENTS: Total, regional and lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) and 
body composition were measured using DXA (Lunar). Menstrual history was taken by 
a questionnaire and walking steps per day and energy intake were measured. 
Physical fitness was assessed by cardio-respiratory fitness and leg extension 
power. Subjects were divided into pre-menopausal and post-menopausal groups.
RESULTS: Pre-menopausal group had significantly higher total body BMD as well as 
regional BMD than post-menopausal group. However, no differences in BMI, 
percentage fat and fat mass (FM) were seen between the two groups. The multiple 
regression analysis stepwise method revealed that total and regional BMD 
correlated with menopausal state and total FM independently. Total and regional 
BMD did not correlate with total non-fat soft tissue mass (NFSM), energy intake, 
walking steps or physical fitness levels. Trunk and lower extremities BMD 
correlated with corresponding regional FM and NFSM, and upper extremities BMD 
correlated with only corresponding body part NFSM after adjusting menopausal 
state.
CONCLUSION: Total and regional BMD had strong negative correlation with 
menopausal state rather than total FM in overweight Japanese women. 
Weight-bearing site BMD correlated with corresponding body part FM and NFSM and 
non-weight bearing site BMD only correlated with corresponding body part NFSM 
after adjusting for menopausal state.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0801620
PMID: 11439303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Annu Rev Nurs Res. 2001;19:125-42.

Interventions for women as family caregivers.

Bull MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, USA.

Family caregivers are the mainstay of long-term care, as they enable chronically 
ill elders and children to remain at home. The majority of family caregivers are 
women and historically their caregiving role has been viewed as an extension of 
their roles as wife and mother. Although numerous studies report the stresses 
associated with family caregiving and are predictors of burden, less attention 
has been given to interventions for family caregivers. The objective of this 
review is to examine reports of interventions to reduce family caregiver burden, 
to consider their implications for nursing practice, and to identify directions 
for future nursing research.

PMID: 11439779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 5;345(1):68; author reply 68-9. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM200107053450117.

The cost effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy for HIV disease.

Messori A, Trippoli S, Vaiani M.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):824-31.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200107053450117
PMID: 11439960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 5;345(1):9-16. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200107053450102.

Safety and efficacy of recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A replacement 
therapy in Fabry's disease.

Eng CM(1), Guffon N, Wilcox WR, Germain DP, Lee P, Waldek S, Caplan L, Linthorst 
GE, Desnick RJ; International Collaborative Fabry Disease Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 5;345(1):55-7.

BACKGROUND: Fabry's disease, lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A deficiency, results 
from the progressive accumulation of globotriaosylceramide and related 
glycosphingolipids. Affected patients have microvascular disease of the kidneys, 
heart, and brain.
METHODS: We evaluated the safety and effectiveness of recombinant 
alpha-galactosidase A in a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind study of 58 patients who were treated every 2 weeks for 20 weeks. 
Thereafter, all patients received recombinant alpha-galactosidase A in an 
open-label extension study. The primary efficacy end point was the percentage of 
patients in whom renal microvascular endothelial deposits of 
globotriaosylceramide were cleared (reduced to normal or near-normal levels). We 
also evaluated the histologic clearance of microvascular endothelial deposits of 
globotriaosylceramide in the endomyocardium and skin, as well as changes in the 
level of pain and the quality of life.
RESULTS: In the double-blind study, 20 of the 29 patients in the recombinant 
alpha-galactosidase A group (69 percent) had no microvascular endothelial 
deposits of globotriaosylceramide after 20 weeks, as compared with none of the 
29 patients in the placebo group (P<0.001). Patients in the recombinant 
alpha-galactosidase A group also had decreased microvascular endothelial 
deposits of globotriaosylceramide in the skin (P<0.001) and heart (P<0.001). 
Plasma levels of globotriaosylceramide were directly correlated with clearance 
of the microvascular deposits. After six months of open-label therapy, all 
patients in the former placebo group and 98 percent of patients in the former 
recombinant alpha-galactosidase A group who had biopsies had clearance of 
microvascular endothelial deposits of globotriaosylceramide. The incidence of 
most treatment-related adverse events was similar in the two groups, with the 
exception of mild-to-moderate infusion reactions (i.e., rigors and fever), which 
were more common in the recombinant alpha-galactosidase A group. IgG 
seroconversion occurred in 88 percent of patients who received recombinant 
alpha-galactosidase A.
CONCLUSIONS: Recombinant alpha-galactosidase A replacement therapy cleared 
microvascular endothelial deposits of globotriaosylceramide from the kidneys, 
heart, and skin in patients with Fabry's disease, reversing the pathogenesis of 
the chief clinical manifestations of this disease.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200107053450102
PMID: 11439963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Korean J Parasitol. 2001 Jun;39(2):185-92. doi: 10.3347/kjp.2001.39.2.185.

Malaria transmission potential by Anopheles sinensis in the Republic of Korea.

Lee HI(1), Lee JS, Shin EH, Lee WJ, Kim YY, Lee KR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Zoology, National Institute of Health, Seoul, 122-701, 
Korea.

To evaluate the factors that determine the transmission level of vivax malaria 
using vectorial capacity, entomological surveys were conducted from June to 
August, 2000. From 6 nights of human-bait collection in Paju, the human biting 
rate (ma) was counted as 87.5 bites/man/night. The parity of Anopheles sinensis 
from human baiting collections fluctuated from 41% to 71% (average 48.8%) of 
which the rate gradually increased as time passed on: 35.2% in Jun.; 55.0% in 
July; 66.2% in Aug. From this proportion of parous, we could estimate the 
probability of daily survival rate of An. sinensis to be 0.79 assumed with 3 
days gonotrophic cycle and the expectancy of infective life through 11 days 
could be defined as 0.073. Blood meal analysis was performed using ELISA to 
determine the blood meal source. Only 0.8% of blood meals were from human hosts. 
We could conclude that An. sinensis is highly zoophilic (cow 61.8%). Malaria is 
highly unstable (stability index < 0.5) in this area. From these data, vectorial 
capacity (VC) was determined to be 0.081. In spite of a high human biting rate 
(ma), malaria transmission potential is very low due to a low human blood index. 
Therefore, we could conclude that malaria transmission by An. sinensis is 
resulted by high population density, not by high transmission potential. For 
this reason, we need more effort to decrease vector population and vector-human 
contact to eradicate malaria in Korea.

DOI: 10.3347/kjp.2001.39.2.185
PMCID: PMC2721096
PMID: 11441506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2001;3(1):20-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00125.x.

Nonsubmerged implants in the treatment of the edentulous lower jaw: a 5-year 
prospective longitudinal study of ITI hollow screws.

Hellem S(1), Karlsson U, Almfeldt I, Brunell G, Hamp SE, Astrand P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Bergen, 
Arstadveien 17, N-5009 Bergen, Norway. Solve.Hellem@odont.uib.no

BACKGROUND: Although most implant systems have been designed for a two-stage 
surgical technique, a one-stage surgical technique has always been advocated for 
the ITI Dental Implant System (Straumann AG, Waldenburg, Switzerland). A new 
generation of ITI implants was presented in 1988 and included a hollow cylinder, 
a hollow screw, and a solid screw.
PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the one-stage surgical technique 
in connection with the ITI hollow screw in a longitudinal study over 5 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-six patients with edentulous lower jaws were 
supplied with ITI hollow-screw implants. Patients who requested an overdenture 
(n = 18) had four implants inserted; those who requested a fixed bridge (n = 28) 
had five to six implants. The patients have been followed annually for 5 years. 
There was a dropout of three patients (6.5%); one patient did not want to 
cooperate, one moved from the area, and one was deceased. The clinical 
examinations included bridge removal for evaluation of the individual implant 
stability in connection with the 1-, 3-, and 5-year examinations. Radiographic 
examinations were performed with intraoral radiographs and the long-cone 
technique.
RESULTS: The survival rate after 5 years was 95.7%. The success rate (in which 
implants undergoing treatment of peri-implantitis were not counted as successes) 
was 91.4%. The mean marginal bone loss between the baseline and the 1-year 
examination was 0.1 mm and between the 1- and 5-year examinations was 0.1 mm. 
These changes in marginal bone level were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The success rate of ITI hollow-screw implants in the edentulous 
mandible was 91.4% after a 5-year observation period. There was no significant 
change in mean bone level between the loading of the implants and the 5-year 
examination. Peri-implantitis was diagnosed in three patients with poor oral 
hygiene, and it affected six implants. Five of these failed in spite of 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00125.x
PMID: 11441540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Am J Public Health. 2001 Jul;91(7):1135-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.91.7.1135.

Activity limitations reported in the National Health Interview Survey: an 
anomaly and its effect on estimates of national well-being.

Anderson JP.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.91.7.1135
PMCID: PMC1446718
PMID: 11441746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Lancet. 2001 Jun 23;357(9273):2058. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)05150-3.

Changes in ife expectancy in Russia.

Wasserman D, Vdmik A.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2001 Mar 24;357(9260):917-21.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)05150-3
PMID: 11441869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(2-3):412-33. doi: 10.1080/02841860151116501.

Economic aspects of chemotherapy.

Karlsson G(1), Nygren P, Glimelius B; SBU-group. Swedish Council of Technology 
Assessment in Health Care.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

A systematic review of the effect of chemotherapy in several tumour types was 
performed by The Swedish Council of Technology Assessment in Health Care (SBU). 
The review also included an assessment of the limited number of studies 
available on the health economics of chemotherapy for diagnoses included in the 
SBU report. The conclusions reached from this assessment can be summarized as 
follows: Several international studies and one Swedish study addressed the 
cost-effectiveness of different chemotherapeutic regimens. The quality of the 
studies is generally low and comparability is rather limited. Some of the 
studies compared cytostatic treatment with no cytostatic treatment. Most 
studies, however, compared two or more treatments. The costs were then compared 
with potential differences in treatment outcome. Outcomes are mostly measured as 
the cost per life-year gained. The results from these studies vary by treatment 
and indication. In some cases, after all relevant costs are taken into account, 
chemotherapy shows cost savings. In most studies, chemotherapy is associated 
both with higher costs and improved treatment results, often measured in terms 
of survival. Studies of rather high quality show that the cost per life-year 
gained (quality-adjusted) for most chemotherapeutic regimens with relatively 
limited effects ranges between 100,000 and 250,000 Swedish kronor (SEK). 
Estimates of cost-effectiveness for more effective chemotherapy has not been 
reported in the literature. The estimated costs are in parity with the costs of 
'established' treatments for other diseases. There is uncertainty about what 
treatments can be considered cost-effective; there is no consensus concerning 
what costs are 'reasonable' per life-year gained in health care. The estimates 
of cost-effectiveness in most studies are highly uncertain and must be 
interpreted with caution. Improved assessment would require more studies in 
Sweden. For various reasons it is difficult to apply the results from the 
international studies to Sweden.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860151116501
PMID: 11441944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Head Neck. 2001 Aug;23(8):661-8. doi: 10.1002/hed.1093.

Accelerated hyperfractionated irradiation for advanced head and neck cancer: 
effect of shortening the median treatment duration by 13 days.

Leborgne F(1), Leborgne JH, Fowler J, Zubizarreta E, Mezzera J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Instituto de Radiología y Centro de Lucha 
Contra el Cáncer, Hospital Pereira Rossell, and Hospital Italiano, PO Box 6571, 
11100 Montevideo, Uruguay.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Optimal treatment duration of altered fractionation 
schedules in head and neck cancer is still undefined. A retrospective study on 
local tumor control, survival, and complications of accelerated 
hyperfractionated irradiation in head and neck cancer was undertaken to 
investigate whether there was an advantage in further shortening overall time 
from 6.5 weeks.
METHODS: Four hundred nineteen consecutive male patients treated with radiation 
alone for cure 1987-1998 were analyzed. Patients with stage I, or treated also 
with brachytherapy implants or chemotherapy, were excluded. Treatment with 
accelerated hyperfractionation was performed twice daily, at a median of 1.6 
Gy/fraction, to a total median dose of 68 Gy in 39 days. The patient population 
was divided into two groups: those with < or =39 days overall treatment time 
(group A, n = 227; median, 33 days) and those with >39 days (group B, n = 192; 
median, 46 days). Group A received a significant median tumor dose reduction of 
7% compared with group B.
RESULTS: The 7-year actuarial local control (LC) rates were 59% and 48% for 
groups A and B, respectively (p =.02). The actuarial LC rates for T1-2 patients 
were 79% and 74% at 7 years for groups A and B, respectively (p = NS). 
Similarly, for T3-4 patients, they were 47% and 35% (p =.02), respectively. The 
7-year actuarial disease-free survival (DFS) rates for groups A and B were 39% 
and 26% (p =.01), respectively. For stage II patients, DFS was 62% and 60% at 7 
years (p = NS) for groups A and B, respectively. And similarly, for stage III-IV 
patients, DFS was 33% and 20% (p =.04), respectively, at 7 years. LC and DFS 
rates at 7 years for T4 and stage IV patients, respectively, were significantly 
improved in group A. Cox regression analyses for LC showed that both T stage and 
overall time were significant prognostic factors. Similarly, UICC clinical stage 
and overall time were significant prognostic factors for DFS. There was no 
difference in acute morbidity between the two groups: 3% of patients in both 
groups required tube or parenteral feeding. The 7-year actuarial probability of 
RTOG/EORTC grades 3-5 late effects was 15% and 13%, respectively, for each group 
(p = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: This study, with the limitations of a retrospective study, has 
shown a significant improvement in local tumor control and disease-free 
survival, in patients treated with shorter overall treatment times (median, 33 
