days) with an accelerated hyperfractionated irradiation schedule compared with 
those treated with a median duration of 46 days. No significant enhancement of 
acute reactions and late morbidity were observed with the shorter schedule.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.1093
PMID: 11443749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Osteoporos Int. 2001;12(5):356-61. doi: 10.1007/s001980170102.

Cost-effectiveness of preventing hip fracture in the general female population.

Kanis JA(1), Dawson A, Oden A, Johnell O, de Laet C, Jonsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases (WHO Collaborating Centre), University of 
Sheffield Medical School, Beech Hill Road, Sheffield S10 2RX, UK.

The aims of this study were to determine whether treatments that reduce the 
incidence of hip fracture might be used in the general female population rather 
than screening or case-finding strategies. Cost-effectiveness, measured as cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained using threshold values for 
cost-effectiveness of $20,000 or $30,000/QALY gained, was assessed during and 
after treatment using a computer simulation model applied to the female 
population of Sweden. The base case assumed a 5-year intervention that reduced 
the risk of hip fracture by 35% during the treatment period, and an effect that 
reversed to the pretreatment risk during the next 5 years. Sensitivity analyses 
included the effects of age, different treatment costs and effectiveness. 
Cost-effectiveness was critically dependent upon the age and costs of 
intervention. Reasonable cost-effectiveness was shown even with relatively high 
intervention costs for women at average risk at the age of 84 years or more. For 
the cheapest interventions ($63/year) cost-effectiveness could be found from the 
age of 53 years. Variations in effectiveness (15-50% risk reduction) had marked 
effects on the age that treatment was worthwhile. We conclude that segments of 
the apparently healthy population could be advantaged by treatment if efficacy 
were supported by randomized controlled studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170102
PMID: 11444082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Osteoporos Int. 2001;12(5):373-9. doi: 10.1007/s001980170105.

Maintenance of body weight, physical activity and calcium intake helps preserve 
bone mass in elderly women.

Uusi-Rasi K(1), Siev√§nen H, Pasanen M, Oja P, Vuori I.

Author information:
(1)UKK Institute for Health Promotion Research, PO Box 30, FIN-33501 Tampere, 
Finland. mekiuu@uta.fi

This prospective study focused on lifestyle factors and weight maintenance that 
may modulate the rate of bone loss at the weight-bearing proximal femur and 
non-weight-bearing distal radius in elderly women. Altogether 128 women of 134 
subjects participated in this study with a mean follow-up time 3.9 years (range 
2.9-5.3 years). The initially 60- to 65-year-old subjects were originally 
selected by their level of physical activity [high (PA+) and low (PA-)] and 
calcium intake [high (Ca+) and low (Ca-)], and the original groups were 
maintained in this study. Physical fitness and bone mineral content (BMC) 
decreased significantly at a similar rate in all four study groups without any 
statistically significant between-group difference. The mean change in the 
muscle strength of leg extensors was -3.3% (95% CI -5% to -1.5%) at follow-up 
when including all individuals. The leg extension strength was still 9.2% (95% 
CI 2.7% to 16.1%) better in the PA+ groups compared with PA- groups at 
follow-up. The mean change in the forearm flexion strength was -14% (95% CI 
-16.5% to -11.3%) at follow-up with no difference in the strength level between 
PA+ and PA- groups. The mean change in the estimated oxygen uptake was -3.4% 
(95% CI -5.6% to -1.1%) at follow-up. The PA+ groups were still fitter, the 
between-group difference in the estimated oxygen uptake being 11.9% (95% CI 4.8% 
to 19.5%). The mean changes in BMC at follow-up were -2.1% (95% CI -3.0% to 
-1.2%) at the femoral neck, -1.9% (95% CI -3.2% to -0.5%) at the trochanter, and 
-12.4% (95% CI -15.4% to -9.4%) at the distal radius, indicating mean annual 
losses of 0.6% (95% CI 0.3% to 0.8%), 0.5% (95% CI 0.1% to 0.8%), and 3.2% (95% 
CI 2.4% to 4.0%), respectively. Decreased body weight was associated with higher 
bone loss in all measured bone sites. High calcium intake and better 
preservation of physical fitness were associated with a smaller decrease in 
femoral neck BMC.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170105
PMID: 11444085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Osteoporos Int. 2001;12(5):417-27. doi: 10.1007/s001980170112.

The burden of osteoporotic fractures: a method for setting intervention 
thresholds.

Kanis JA(1), Oden A, Johnell O, Jonsson B, de Laet C, Dawson A.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield 
Medical School, Beech Hill Road, Sheffield S10 2RX, UK.

The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between morbidity from hip 
fracture and that from other osteoporotic fractures by age and sex based on the 
population of Sweden. Osteoporotic fractures were designated as those associated 
with low bone mineral density (BMD) and those that increased in incidence with 
age after the age of 50 years. Severity of fractures was weighted according to 
their morbidity using utility values based on those derived by the National 
Osteoporosis Foundation. Morbidity from fractures other than hip fracture was 
converted to hip fracture equivalents according to their disutility weights. 
Excess morbidity was 3.34 and 4.75 in men and women at the age of 50 years, i.e. 
the morbidity associated with osteoporotic fractures was 3-5 times that 
accounted for by hip fracture. Excess morbidity decreased with age to 
approximately 1.25 between the ages of 85 and 89 years. On the assumption that 
the age- and sex-specific pattern of fractures due to osteoporosis is similar in 
different communities, the computation of excess morbidity can be utilized to 
determine the total morbidity from osteoporotic fractures from knowledge of hip 
fracture rates alone. Such data can be used to weight probabilities of hip 
fracture in different countries in order to take into account the morbidity from 
fractures other than hip fracture, and to modify intervention thresholds based 
on hip fracture risk alone. If, for example, a 10-year probability of hip 
fracture of 10% was considered an intervention threshold, this would be exceeded 
in women with osteoporosis aged 65 years and more, but when weighted for other 
osteoporotic fractures would be exceeded in all women (and men) with 
osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170112
PMID: 11444092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Mayo Clin Proc. 2001 Jul;76(7):702-6. doi: 10.4065/76.7.702.

Lymph node-positive prostate cancer: evaluation of the results of the 
combination of androgen deprivation therapy and radiation therapy.

Buskirk SJ(1), Pisansky TM, Atkinson EJ, Schild SE, O'Brien PC, Wolfe JT, Zincke 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Fla 32082, USA. 
buskirk.steven@mayo.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the outcome of patients with pathologic stage IV prostate 
cancer treated with androgen ablation plus external-beam radiation therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty consecutive patients treated between August 1986 and 
February 1995 with androgen ablation plus radiation therapy for stage IV (T1-4 
N1 M0) adenocarcinoma of the prostate were selected for outcome analysis in this 
retrospective study. Bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed in 56 
patients (93%). The 4 remaining patients had pelvic adenopathy on computed 
tomography, which was confirmed histologically in all patients. The median 
pretreatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level was 28.8 ng/mL (mean, 55 ng/ 
mL; range, 0.1-428 ng/mL). All patients received radiation therapy to the 
prostate, and 29 (48%) had pelvic node radiation. Biochemical failure was 
defined according to the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology 
criteria of 3 successive increases in the PSA level.
RESULTS: The median follow-up duration for surviving patients was 101.1 months 
(range, 20-134 months). Biochemical failure with (in 2 patients) or without (in 
10 patients) clinically evident disease relapse was noted in 12 patients (20%). 
Four additional patients (7%) had clinical relapse without biochemical failure. 
Local recurrences were observed in 6 patients (10%), and this clinical 
impression was confirmed by biopsy in 4 patients. Thirteen patients (22%) died 
of causes related to prostate cancer. The biochemical relapse-free, clinical 
disease-free, overall, and cause-specific survival rates at 5 years were 82%, 
84%, 76%, and 80%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This observational case series of patients treated with the 
combination of external-beam radiation therapy and permanent androgen ablation 
for pathologic stage IV prostate cancer suggests that the addition of androgen 
deprivation therapy to radiation therapy may improve disease outcome. In the 
absence of randomized trial results, these observations may be beneficial in 
clinical decision making.

DOI: 10.4065/76.7.702
PMID: 11444402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Clin Psychiatry. 2001;62 Suppl 15:8-11.

The economic and social burden of depression.

Sartorius N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Geneva, Switzerland.

Depressive disorders are a major public health problem. They occur frequently 
and produce severe suffering for those affected and for their families. They are 
ubiquitous and appear at all ages. The consequences of depressive disorders in 
terms of excessive mortality, disability, and secondary morbidity are grave. 
There are indications that the frequency of depressive disorders will increase 
in the years to come, for a variety of reasons, including demographic changes, 
extended life expectancy of people suffering from chronic physical disorders, 
and iatrogenic causes. The essential criterion for designating a condition as a 
major public health problem--that there should be an effective intervention that 
will diminish or eliminate the problem-has now also been met. Recent years have 
seen the development of a variety of new treatments that can be applied even in 
situations where highly specialized mental health staff are scarce. These 
developments make training in the use of new treatment methods of proven value 
and their wide application a public health priority and an ethical obligation. 
The presentation will discuss these issues on the basis of accumulated evidence 
and experience.

PMID: 11444765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Am J Nurs. 2001 Jun;101(6):84-5. doi: 10.1097/00000446-200106000-00028.

AIDS in Africa.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1097/00000446-200106000-00028
PMID: 11446365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Hum Biol. 2001 Apr;73(2):271-90. doi: 10.1353/hub.2001.0029.

International variability of ages at menarche and menopause: patterns and main 
determinants.

Thomas F(1), Renaud F, Benefice E, de Mee√ºs T, Guegan JF.

Author information:
(1)CEPM, UMR CNRS-IRD 9926, Equipe Evolution des Syst√®mes Symbiotiques, 
Montpellier, France.

The purpose of this study was to review published studies on the variability of 
age at menarche and age at menopause throughout the world, and to identify the 
main causes for age variation in the timing of these events. We first present a 
summary table including mean (or median) values of the age at menarche in 67 
countries, and of the age at menopause in 26 countries. General linear models 
showed that mean age at menarche was strongly linked to the mean female life 
expectancy, suggesting that one or several variables responsible for 
inequalities in longevity similarly influenced the onset of menarche. A closer 
examination of the data revealed that among several variables reflecting living 
conditions, the factors best explaining the variation in age at menarche were 
adult illiteracy rate and vegetable calorie consumption. Because adult 
illiteracy rate has some correlation with the age at which children are involved 
in physical activities that can be detrimental in terms of energy expenditure, 
our results suggest that age at menarche reflects more a trend in energy balance 
than merely nutritional status. In addition, we found the main determinant of 
age at menopause to be the mean fertility. This study thus suggests that, on a 
large scale, age at menarche is mainly determined by extrinsic factors such as 
living conditions, while age at menopause seems to be mainly influenced by 
intrinsic factors such as the reproductive history of individuals. Finally, 
these findings suggest that human patterns cannot be addressed solely by 
traditional, small-scale investigations on single populations. Rather, 
complementary research on a larger scale, such as this study, may be more 
appropriate in defining some interesting applications to the practical problems 
of human ecology.

DOI: 10.1353/hub.2001.0029
PMID: 11446429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2001 Jul;108(1):39-46. doi: 10.1067/mai.2001.116289.

Cost-effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroids in adults with mild-to-moderate 
asthma: results from the asthma policy model.

Paltiel AD(1), Fuhlbrigge AL, Kitch BT, Liljas B, Weiss ST, Neumann PJ, Kuntz 
KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06520-8034, USA

BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroids remain underused among United States-based 
clinicians in treating mild-to-moderate adult asthma.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this investigation was to estimate the clinical 
impact, health-related quality of life, cost, and cost-effectiveness of inhaled 
corticosteroid therapy in a population of patients aged 18 years and over with 
FEV(1) = 60% to 100% of predicted normal.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of quick relievers (eg, 
short-acting beta-agonists) on an as-needed basis plus inhaled corticosteroid 
therapy versus quick relievers alone. A mathematical simulation model was 
developed to forecast symptoms, acute exacerbations, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), health care costs, and cost-effectiveness, measured in both dollars per 
QALY gained and dollars per symptom-free day gained. All evaluation outcomes 
were discounted at an annual rate of 3% and measured over a 10-year planning 
horizon. Data on the natural history of disease, drug efficacy, patient 
preferences, and economic costs were obtained from a variety of observational 
cohorts, randomized trials, and patient surveys.
RESULTS: Over a 10-year period, use of inhaled corticosteroids increases total 
health costs from roughly $5,200 to $8,400 and improves QALYs from 6.8 to 7.0, 
implying an incremental cost of $13,500 per QALY gained. Costs per symptom-free 
day gained are $7.50. Both per-person acute exacerbations and hospitalizations 
are reduced by 33%. The cost-effectiveness findings are sensitive to the assumed 
efficacy and side-effects of inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Inhaled corticosteroids appear to deliver good comparative value in 
adults with mild-to-moderate asthma. Although more research is needed to 
understand their impact on preferences regarding side effects and compliance, 
these findings might be useful for priority-setting in limited resource 
situations.

DOI: 10.1067/mai.2001.116289
PMID: 11447380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Perinat Med. 2001;29(3):230-4. doi: 10.1515/JPM.2001.032.

Genetic components of perinatal morbidity and mortality.

Beke A(1), Papp Z.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, 
Hungary.

The authors summarize the perinatal effects of the main genetic disorder 
groupings. Diseases of autosomal dominant inheritance are usually less severe 
and postnatal life is possible. Diseases of autosomal recessive inheritance are 
serious in most cases, causing severe symptoms in postnatal life. Diseases of 
X-linked recessive inheritance manifest themselves in male embryos and may be 
mild or serious; the more severe forms may influence the perinatal outcome. 
Diseases of X-linked dominant inheritance occur less frequently and manifest 
themselves in both sexes: in some cases the life expectancy is not favorable. 
Chromosomal anomalies, unbalanced rearrangements and autosomal trisomies may 
cause severe multiplex malformation syndromes and mental retardation. The 
diseases are serious in most cases and intrauterine mortality is high. 
Conversely, in cases of numerical differences of the sex chromosomes perinatal 
mortality does not increase remarkably, except in X-monosomy. Diseases of 
multifactorial origin lead to isolated malformations, but many civilization 
diseases originate from similar causes. In a few cases, severe diseases (i.e. 
congenital heart defects and neural tube defects) occur which may influence the 
outcome of the pregnancy. In terms of teratogenic effects, taking medication or 
undergoing X-ray examination or infections during early pregnancy indicates only 
a small risk in most cases. The authors emphasize that genetic centers 
significantly influence the perinatal outcome of pregnancies with their complex 
activity and their role in prenatal diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1515/JPM.2001.032
PMID: 11447927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nutrition. 2001 Jul-Aug;17(7-8):594-9. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(01)00565-2.

International perspectives: the profession of dietetics.

Calabro KS(1), Bright KA, Bahl S.

Author information:
(1)Health Science Center, University of Texas at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA. kcalabro@admin4.hsc.uth.tmc.edu

A survey about the professional characteristics of dietetics practice was mailed 
to 109 countries and representatives from 61 countries responded. Using the 
Human Development Index (HDI), a measure that reflects the life expectancy, 
education, and income of the population of each nation, countries were 
categorized as high, medium, or low HDI. This allowed comparisons among the HDI 
scores in the areas of education, professional practice, education, and practice 
competencies. Responding countries were 36.1% high HDI, 49.2% middle HDI, 8.2% 
low HDI, and 6.6% were unclassified. Dietetics was a nationally recognized 
profession in 81% of countries, with most having a professional association that 
represented dietitians. Clinical dietetics was the most frequently selected area 
of practice, followed by food service. Undergraduate academic programs in 
dietetics were available in 79% of countries and 49% offered graduate degrees. 
Most respondents rated competencies in clinical and community nutrition, along 
with competencies in professional practice, as important to their work. The 
results of this study can serve as a baseline as the profession evolves. Leaders 
in the dietetics profession can use these results to identify areas that need 
improvement. Collaboration with the United Nations family and sources that fund 
global initiatives can help in providing resources for the advancement of the 
profession. When the effectiveness of dietitians is improved, favorable changes 
in nutritional well-being on the global level can be expected.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(01)00565-2
PMID: 11448579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nutrition. 2001 Jul-Aug;17(7-8):681-2. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(01)00563-9.

Changing infant-feeding practices and growth in Tunisian children.

Khaldi F, Ben Mansour A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(01)00563-9
PMID: 11448602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Am J Med. 2001 Jul;111(1):33-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(01)00745-8.

Life expectancy and cancer risk in patients with Barrett's esophagus: a 
prospective controlled investigation.

Eckardt VF(1), Kanzler G, Bernhard G.

Author information:
(1)Deutsche Klinik f√ºr Diagnostik, Wiesbaden, Germany. 
gastro.eckardt@dkd-wiesbaden.de

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2002 Apr 15;112(6):507.

BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that patients with Barrett's esophagus have a 
substantially increased risk of esophageal and possibly extra-esophageal 
cancers. We compared the incidence of cancer and the survival rates of patients 
with Barrett's esophagus with those observed in patients with achalasia, with 
Schatzki's ring, and in the general population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 1980 through 1994, 60 consecutive patients with newly 
diagnosed long-segment Barrett's esophagus without dysplasia were seen in a 
single gastroenterology consultation office and followed until the Fall of 1999. 
Cancer incidence and survival rates were compared with age- and sex-matched 
patients with symptomatic Schatzki's ring (n = 60) and achalasia (n = 60). 
Survival data were also compared with those of the German population.
RESULTS: During a mean (+/-SD) observation period of 10 +/- 5 years, 2 patients 
with Barrett's esophagus (3%; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0% to 11%) developed 
esophageal cancer, and 9 (15%; 95% CI: 7% to 27%) developed extra-esophageal 
cancers. These data differed only slightly from those of patients with 
Schatzki's ring (esophageal cancer: n = 1, 2%; 95% CI: 0% to 9%; 
extra-esophageal cancers: n = 9, 15%; 95% CI: 7%-27%) and achalasia (no 
esophageal cancers, extra-esophageal cancers: n = 3, 5%; 95% CI: 1% to 4%). 
Estimated 10-year survival was similar in patients with Barrett's esophagus 
(83%), patients with symptomatic Schatzki's ring (80%), patients with achalasia 
(87%), and in the general population (82%).
CONCLUSIONS: The cancer risk in patients with Barrett's esophagus has been 
overestimated. If patients with nondysplastic epithelium are followed, the risk 
of esophageal cancer is about 1 per 300 patient-years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(01)00745-8
PMID: 11448658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2001 Apr;25(4):347-52.

[Who dies with hepatitis C virus in France?].

[Article in French]

Association nationale des gastroent√©rologues des h√¥pitaux g√©n√©raux.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the characteristics of anti-HCV positive patients who 
have died in France.
METHODS: Prospective study of deceased or transplanted anti-HCV positive 
patients between January 1994 and February 1996, followed in Gastroenterology 
and Liver Units in 18 French General Hospitals. Retrospective study of patients 
with cirrhosis unrelated to HCV infection who died during the same period in 8 
of these hospitals.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven anti-HCV positive patients, 53 males and 44 females, 
deceased during the study period (except one transplanted patient), at a mean 
age of 67 (median: 71), from liver disease in 79% of cases (all had cirrhosis, 
and 49 hepatocellular carcinoma). The supposed sources of infection were: blood 
transfusion (44%), intravenous drug use (10%), unknown (46%). All 27 patients 
(22 men) with a daily alcohol intake of 80 g or more had cirrhosis, and died an 
average of 10 years earlier. The anti-HVC negative patients with alcoholic 
cirrhosis who died were three times as numerous, and had similar characteristics 
to anti-VHC positive alcoholic patients.
CONCLUSION: HCV-infected patients who die of liver disease lose 5 to 10 years of 
life expectancy, and 10 years more if they drink 80 g or more of alcohol daily.

PMID: 11449122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2001 Jul;108(1 Suppl):S9-15. doi: 
10.1067/mai.2001.115562.

Pediatric allergic rhinitis and comorbid disorders.

Lack G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, St Mary's Hospital, London, 
UK.

Allergic rhinitis (AR) is rarely found in isolation and needs to be considered 
in the context of systemic allergic disease associated with numerous comorbid 
disorders, including asthma, chronic middle ear effusions, sinusitis, lymphoid 
hypertrophy with obstructive sleep apnea, disordered sleep, and consequent 
behavioral and educational effects. The coexistence of AR and asthma is complex. 
First, the diagnosis of asthma may be confounded by symptoms of cough caused by 
rhinitis and postnasal drip. This may lead to either inaccurate diagnosis of 
asthma or inappropriate assessment of asthma severity with over treatment of the 
patient. The term "cough variant rhinitis" is therefore proposed to describe 
rhinitis that manifests itself primarily as cough that results from postnasal 
drip. AR, however, also has a causal role in asthma; it appears both to be 
responsible for exacerbating asthma and to have a role in its pathogenesis. 
Postnasal drip with nasopharyngeal inflammation leads to a number of other 
conditions. Thus sinusitis is a frequent extension of rhinitis and is one of the 
most frequently missed diagnoses in children. Allergen exposure in the 
nasopharynx with release of histamine and other mediators can cause Eustachian 
tube obstruction possibly leading to middle ear effusions. Chronic allergic 
inflammation of the upper airway causes lymphoid hypertrophy with prominence of 
adenoidal and tonsillar tissue. This may be associated with poor appetite, poor 
growth, and obstructive sleep apnea. AR is therefore part of a spectrum of 
allergic disorders that can profoundly affect the well being and quality of life 
of a child. Prospective cohort studies are required to assess the disease burden 
caused by AR in childhood and to further assess the potential educational 
impairment that may result. Because AR is part of a systemic disease process, 
its management requires a coordinated approach rather than a fragmented, 
organ-based approach.

DOI: 10.1067/mai.2001.115562
PMID: 11449201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Przegl Lek. 2001;58(4):226-8.

Drug therapy: safety, effectiveness, and economics.

Brandys J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Farmacy Medical College, Jagiellonian 
University, Krak√≥w, Poland. mfbrandy@cyf-kr.edu.pl

The problems of safety, effectiveness and economics of a drug therapy are 
discussed. Adverse drug reactions (ADR) represent not only a humanistic problem 
but also an epidemiological and economic one. The incidents and costs of ADRs 
are described, as well as pharmacovigilance and pharmacoeconomics as a tool of 
rationalizing the expenditures on health care.

PMID: 11450340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 12;345(2):134-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200107123450210.

Inequalities in health.

Marmot M.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Jul 12;345(2):99-106.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200107123450210
PMID: 11450663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Mol Immunol. 2000 Dec;37(18):1081-90. doi: 10.1016/s0161-5890(01)00024-4.

The role of carbohydrate in the assembly and function of polymeric IgG.

Coloma MJ(1), Clift A, Wims L, Morrison SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics and the 
Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, 405 Hilgard 
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

The carbohydrate present on glycoprotein can influence their biologic and 
functional properties. In the present paper we have assessed the role of 
oligosaccharides in the polymerization and effector functions of IgG with the 18 
amino acid extension of IgM added to its carboxy terminus (IgGmutp). We found 
that IgG1mutp and IgG3mutp lacking the carbohydrate addition site in C(H)2, in 
the tail-piece or both assembled into polymers as well as the glycosylated 
versions. Aglycosylated polymers retained the ability to activate complement as 
assayed by C1q binding and hemolysis, although they were not as effective as 
their wild type polymer counterparts. Although IgGmutp lacking the carbohydrate 
in the tail-piece was able to bind to FcgammaRII, completely aglycosylated 
polymers lost the ability to bind to both FcgammaRI and FcgammaRII, suggesting a 
critical role for the C(H)2 sugar in FcR binding. Absence of the mutp 
carbohydrate increased the half life of polymeric IgG1, whereas absence of the 
carbohydrate in C(H)2 accelerated the clearance rate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-5890(01)00024-4
PMID: 11451414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 2001 Jul 5;412(6842):5. doi: 10.1038/35083721.

Gene screens for nuclear veterans.

Pockley P.

DOI: 10.1038/35083721
PMID: 11452267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2001 Jun 26;49(3):1-48.

Deaths: preliminary data for 1999.

Kochanek KD, Smith BL, Anderson RN.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data for 1999 on deaths in the 
United States. U.S. data on deaths are shown by age, sex, race, and Hispanic 
origin. Data on life expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality 
are also presented.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a sample of deaths comprising more 
than 99 percent of the total deaths in the United States for 1999. The records 
are weighted to independent control counts of infant deaths, and deaths 1 year 
and over received in State vital statistics offices for 1999. Unless indicated, 
comparisons are made with final data for 1998. Effective with this report, all 
age-adjusted death rates for 1999 and earlier years are standardized to the year 
2000 population. Also, effective with mortality data for 1999, causes of death 
are coded and classified according to the Tenth Revision of the International 
Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) replacing ICD-9 used in the United States 
for deaths occurring during 1979-98.
RESULTS: In 1999 the age-adjusted death rate for the United States increased 
slightly, compared with 1998. For causes of death, declines in age-adjusted 
rates occurred for homicide (6 percent) and suicide (6 percent), while rates for 
Septicemia and hypertension increased 6.6 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively. 
Mortality also decreased for drug-induced deaths and deaths from injury by 
firearms. The infant mortality rate for the white population was down 3 percent, 
while the rate for the black population increased by 2 percent, but the increase 
was not statistically significant. Life expectancy remained the same at 76.7 
years.

PMID: 11452844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Sci Total Environ. 2001 Jul 2;274(1-3):79-91. doi: 
10.1016/s0048-9697(01)00731-8.

Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and dose-response models in environmental 
health policy analysis -- methodological considerations.

Ponce RA(1), Wong EY, Faustman EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Washington, Seattle 
98105-6099, USA. rponce@u.washington.edu

Analyses of competing risks are currently limited by the lack of empirically 
well-founded and generalizable quantitative methods. Specifically, quantitative 
methods for comparative risk analysis require the consideration of the 
population impacted, the duration of impact, the health endpoints at risk, and 
the impact on individual quality of life. Whereas risk analysis can be used to 
provide quantitative estimates of disease incidence, environmental health policy 
analyses do not often account for differences in health impact from alternative 
disease states. We discuss the methodological issues related to the use of 
quality adjusted life years (QALY) as a metric for normalizing expected disease 
incidence to account for health impact. Through a case study of the risks and 
benefits of fish consumption, we demonstrate the use of QALY weights with 
dose-response models for environmental health policy decision making. We suggest 
that, although this approach can be generalized for use in comparative risk and 
health policy analysis, it is informationally intensive and requires additional 
assumptions to those used in traditional safety/risk assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0048-9697(01)00731-8
PMID: 11453307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. IMA J Math Appl Med Biol. 2001 Jun;18(2):119-30.

The use of multistate life-table models for improving population health.

Roberts MG(1), Tobias MI.

Author information:
(1)AgResearch, Wallaceville Animal Research Centre, Upper Hutt, New Zealand. 
mick.roberts@agresearch.co.nz

We demonstrate how incidence, prevalence, remission, mortality (IPRM) models may 
be constructed on population life-tables, how the incidence of a condition may 
be calculated, and how the consequences of demographic changes and public health 
interventions may be predicted. We illustrate the methodology by applying it to 
the epidemiology of diabetes, physical inactivity and obesity in New Zealand.

PMID: 11453465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Clin Genet. 2001 Jun;59(6):406-17. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2001.590605.x.

Rett syndrome from quintuple and triple deletions within the MECP2 deletion 
hotspot region.

Lebo RV(1), Ikuta T, Milunsky JM, Milunsky A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Boston University School of Medicine, 715 Albany 
St., Boston, MA 02118-2526, USA. rlebo@bu.edu

Rett syndrome results from mutations in the X-linked methyl-CpG-binding protein 
2 (MECP2) gene, which are nearly always lethal in males and lead to regression 
and reduced life expectancy in females. Herein we report one propositus with 
five tandem deletions and a second propositus with three tandem deletions within 
MECP2 exon 4 that encode truncated protein products resulting in classic Rett 
syndrome. These deletion breakpoints and single deletions in 3 other patients 
were all found within a 185-bp region along with 64 of 69 other reported 
deletion breakpoints in the MECP2 gene. Illegitimate recombination resulting in 
deletion at a substantial proportion of the shared MECP2 sites is enhanced by 
repeated guanosine (G) DNA sequences in the antisense direction, consistent with 
reports at other gene loci that polypurine (multiple guanosine or adenosine (A)) 
basepairs enhance sequence deletion. Multiple deletions at the same poly G 
recombination sites confirm the existence of deletion hotspots in this gene 
region with numerous repeated antisense sites that are enriched 26- to 161-fold. 
Deletion by illegitimate recombination within a single allele can occur during 
mitotic or meiotic cell cycles. Although prone to disease-causing deletion, this 
region is unique in humans and highly conserved among mammals for the last 75 
000 000 years to maintain the MECP2 gene's critical function.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2001.590605.x
PMID: 11453972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Am J Bot. 2001 Jul;88(7):1250-7.

A demographic analysis of fire-stimulated seedling establishment of Sarracenia 
alata (Sarraceniaceae).

Brewer JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Mississippi, University, Mississippi 
38677 USA.

Recurring fires are thought to be critical to maintaining populations of 
carnivorous plants in wet pine savannas. Nevertheless, the impact of fire on 
population dynamics of these unique and sometimes rare plants is poorly 
understood. In this study, I analyzed stage-structured matrices for Sarracenia 
alata. To examine the effects of fire-stimulated increases in seedling 
establishment, five matrices were constructed, which differed in fecundity rates 
associated with different fire frequencies (annual fires, 1/3, 1/7, 1/20, and 
0/20 yr). In addition, I analyzed the sensitivity of population growth and 
dynamics to changes in other vital rates. Fire-stimulated increases in fecundity 
were not necessary to maintain viable populations of Sarracenia alata. Although 
increases in fecundity increased population growth rate, all five fire 
frequencies (including the "no-fire" scenario) produced either stationary or 
increasing populations. Adding year-to-year stochasticity in vital rates did not 
alter these general trends. Population growth and decline were much more 
sensitive to reductions in the survival of large adult ramets (which were 
projected to have a life expectancy of 59 yr). Population growth was also more 
sensitive to changes in juvenile persistence than to juvenile growth, suggesting 
that conservative use of captured resources by juveniles has a greater impact on 
fitness than rapid growth and maturation. Given that a previous study showed 
that modest variation in fire frequency had no impact on either adult or 
juvenile survival, I conclude that Sarracenia alata relies on fire-regulated 
plasticity in allocation to pitchers to increase the survival and lifetime 
fecundity of iteroparous ramets.

PMID: 11454625


274. Gut. 2001 Aug;49(2):231-5. doi: 10.1136/gut.49.2.231.

Decision analysis in the surgical treatment of patients with familial 
adenomatous polyposis: a Dutch-Scandinavian collaborative study including 659 
patients.

Vasen HF(1), van Duijvendijk P, Buskens E, B√ºlow C, Bj√∂rk J, J√§rvinen HJ, B√ºlow 
S.

Author information:
(1)The Netherlands Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumours, Leiden, 
the Netherlands. nfdht@xs4all.nl

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The choice of colorectal surgery in patients with familial 
adenomatous polyposis lies between the morbidity of proctocolectomy and 
ileum-pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) and the mortality from rectal cancer after 
total colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis (IRA). The aims of the present study 
were: (1) to assess the risk of dying from rectal cancer after IRA, (2) to 
compare the life expectancy between patients with an IRA and those with an IPAA, 
and (3) to investigate whether regular endoscopic examination of the rectum 
leads to detection of cancer at an earlier stage.
METHODS: Clinical and pathological data on 659 patients who underwent colectomy 
and ileorectal anastomosis were collected from four national polyposis 
registries-that is, in Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and the Netherlands. Data were 
analysed using survival analysis methods. Decision analysis was used to compare 
the life expectancy between patients with an IRA and those with an IPAA.
RESULTS: A total of 47 patients developed rectal cancer after IRA. The risk of 
dying from rectal cancer was 12.5% (95% confidence interval 7.1--17.9%) by age 
65. Compared with IRA, IPAA would lead to an increase in life expectancy of 1.8 
years. Seventy five per cent of patients with rectal cancer had a negative 
rectoscopy within 12 months before the diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: IRA is associated with substantial mortality due to rectal cancer. 
Follow up examinations of the rectum does not have sufficient preventive effect 
on morbidity and mortality of rectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.49.2.231
PMCID: PMC1728380
PMID: 11454800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2001 Jul-Aug;10(4):199-204; quiz 204-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2001.00020.x.

Updated review of the coronary artery bypass grafting option in octogenarians: 
good tidings.

Shapira I(1), Pines A, Mohr R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, affiliated with 
the Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

This review of the literature is presented in an attempt to keep pace with the 
constantly changing statistics in postsurgical outcomes, which reflect the 
considerable strides in technology and technical skills that have been made 
during the past decade in cardiovascular surgery. Although there is still much 
to be done in terms of improving surgical techniques and managing emergency 
cases, the reported results of coronary artery bypass grafting in octogenarians 
are similar to or even better than those obtained with medical or angioplastic 
approaches, and the life expectancy and quality of life are similar to or better 
than those of age-matched controls.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2001.00020.x
PMID: 11455240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg. 2001;8(2):113-7. doi: 10.1007/s005340170032.

Adjuvant therapies using biliary stenting for malignant biliary obstruction.

Miura Y(1), Endo I, Togo S, Sekido H, Misuta K, Fujii Y, Kubota T, Tanaka K, 
Nagahori K, Shimada H.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Yokohama City University School of Medicine, 
3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.

The aim of this study was to analyze the patency of expandable metallic stents 
in malignant biliary obstruction and to evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant 
therapy accompanied by biliary stenting. We analyzed 29 patients in whom bile 
duct stenting was performed for malignant biliary obstruction. Their types of 
disease were: hilar ductal carcinoma (n = 8), gallbladder carcinoma (n = 11), 
and pancreatic carcinoma (n = 10). Initially, 46 expandable metallic stents were 
placed in 29 patients. In 23 of the 29 patients, adjuvant therapy was 
administered. Seventeen patients underwent radiotherapy, and 16 patients 
received various systemic chemotherapies. In principle, hyperthermia was 
performed twice a week, simultaneously with radiotherapy. Patient survival and 
the probability of stent patency were calculated using actuarial life table 
analysis. There was no significant difference in stent patency among the 
patients according to type of disease. Hyperthermia did not influence the stent 
patency rate. The median stent patency time was significantly greater in the 
chemo-radiation group than in the no-adjuvant therapy group: 182 days versus 68 
days, respectively (P = 0.017). Moreover, a significant increase was seen in the 
median survival time in the chemo-radiation group: 261 days versus 109 days (P = 
0.0337). Complications occurred in 9 patients (31.0%). Stent occlusion occurred 
in 6 patients (20.7%), with all of these patients managed successfully using a 
transhepatically placed new expandable metallic stent, employing the 
stent-in-stent method. Stent migration occurred in 2 patients after 
radiotherapy. Adjuvant therapies such as radiotherapy and systemic chemotherapy, 
in combination with stent insertion, resulted in an increase in the patency 
period of expandable metallic stents and in increased patient survival time.

DOI: 10.1007/s005340170032
PMID: 11455465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Semin Nephrol. 2001 Jul;21(4):386-93. doi: 10.1053/snep.2001.23767.

Hypertension and medication-related renal dysfunction in the HIV-infected 
patient.

Szczech LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke Institute of Renal Outcomes Research & Health Policy, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Given the improved life expectancy with highly active antiretroviral therapy 
among patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infection, the treatment 
of medical problems such as hypertension will become increasingly more 
important. Although HIV-infected patients are at increased risk for the 
development of pulmonary hypertension, there is little data to suggest they are 
at increased risk for systemic hypertension or secondary causes of hypertension. 
Multiple potential drug interactions exist between antiretroviral medications, 
particularly the protease inhibitors and antihypertensive medications. 
Additionally, certain antiretroviral medications have frequent and important 
side effects relating to the kidneys and urinary system. Knowledge of these 
interactions and side effects is essential toward caring for the patient with 
HIV-infection.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/snep.2001.23767
PMID: 11455527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Eur J Ophthalmol. 2001 Apr-Jun;11(2):126-32. doi:
10.1177/112067210101100204.

Comparative efficacy of beta-irradiation and mitomycin-C in primary and 
recurrent pterygium.

Sim≈üek T(1), G√ºnalp I, Atilla H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ankara University School of Medicine, Turkey.

PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy and safety of mitomycin-C as adjunctive 
treatment and to compare this drug with beta irradiation with strontium-90 after 
surgical excision of primary and recurrent pterygia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study group consisted of 193 patients with primary 
and recurrent pterygia who underwent surgical excision with the bare sclera 
technique. They were divided into two groups according to the type of adjunctive 
treatment. In group I, 130 patients (141 eyes, 67.8%) were treated with beta 
irradiation with Sr-90 doses of 1000-7000 cGy. In group II 63 patients (67 eyes, 
32.2%) received topical mitomycin-C at a concentration of 0.02% four times daily 
for one week postoperatively. Recurrence rates, complications and efficacy of 
these treatments were compared with the chi-square of Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: The recurrence rates were 6.4% in group I after a mean postoperative 
follow-up of 89 months and 17.9% in group II after a mean follow-up of 14.9 
months. Recurrence, rates and complications were higher in group II and the 
difference was significant (p<0.05, p<0.001). Life-table analysis showed a 
success rate of 93.6% for Sr-90 and 81.9% for the mitomycin-C, the difference 
being significant (p<0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Beta irradiation with Sr-90 after surgical excision was more 
effective than topical mitomycin-C in patients with primary and recurrent 
pterygium in terms of recurrence rates, and safer in terms of complications.

DOI: 10.1177/112067210101100204
PMID: 11456012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Q J Nucl Med. 2001 Mar;45(1):65-77.

Pathogenesis and pharmacological treatment of bone pain in skeletal metastases.

Ripamonti C(1), Fulfaro F.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation, Pain Therapy and Palliative Care Division, National Cancer 
Institute, Milan, Italy. ripamonti@istitutotumori.mi.it

Sixty-five percent of patients with advanced cancer present bone metastases and 
most of them present a rather slow clinical course characterized by pain, 
mobility deficiencies and skeletal complications such as fractures and spinal 
cord compression. Metastatic involvement of the bone is one of the most frequent 
causes of pain in cancer patients and represents one of the first signs of 
widespread neoplastic disease. The pain may originate directly from the bone, 
from nerve root compression or from muscle spasms in the area of the lesions. 
The mechanism of metastatic bone pain is mainly somatic (nociceptive) even 
though, in some cases, neuropathic and visceral stimulations may overlap. The 
conventional symptomatic treatment of metastatic bone pain requires the use of 
multidisciplinary therapies such as radiotherapy in association with systemic 
treatment (hormonotherapy, chemotherapy, radioisotopes) with the support of 
analgesic therapy. Recently, studies have indicated the use of bisphosphonates 
in the treatment of pain and in the prevention of skeletal complications in 
patients with metastatic bone disease. In some patients pharmacological 
treatment, radiotherapy, radioisotopes administered alone or in association are 
not able to manage pain adequately. The role of neuroinvasive techniques in 
treating metastatic bone pain is debated. The clinical conditions of the 
patient, his life expectancy and quality of life must guide the physician in the 
choice of the best possible therapy.

PMID: 11456377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Clin Invest. 2001 Jul;108(2):261-8. doi: 10.1172/JCI11771.

Development and prevention of advanced diabetic nephropathy in 
RAGE-overexpressing mice.

Yamamoto Y(1), Kato I, Doi T, Yonekura H, Ohashi S, Takeuchi M, Watanabe T, 
Yamagishi S, Sakurai S, Takasawa S, Okamoto H, Yamamoto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Vascular Biology, Kanazawa 
University Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa, Japan. 
yamamoto@med.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

Vascular complications arising from multiple environmental and genetic factors 
are responsible for many of the disabilities and short life expectancy 
associated with diabetes mellitus. Here we provide the first direct in vivo 
evidence that interactions between advanced glycation end products (AGEs; 
nonenzymatically glycosylated protein derivatives formed during prolonged 
hyperglycemic exposure) and their receptor, RAGE, lead to diabetic vascular 
derangement. We created transgenic mice that overexpress human RAGE in vascular 
cells and crossbred them with another transgenic line that develops 
insulin-dependent diabetes shortly after birth. The resultant double transgenic 
mice exhibited increased hemoglobin A(1c) and serum AGE levels, as did the 
diabetic controls. The double transgenic mice demonstrated enlargement of the 
kidney, glomerular hypertrophy, increased albuminuria, mesangial expansion, 
advanced glomerulosclerosis, and increased serum creatinine compared with 
diabetic littermates lacking the RAGE transgene. To our knowledge, the 
development of this double transgenic mouse provides the first animal model that 
exhibits the renal changes seen in humans. Furthermore, the phenotypes of 
advanced diabetic nephropathy were prevented by administering an AGE inhibitor, 
(+/-)-2-isopropylidenehydrazono-4-oxo-thiazolidin-5-ylacetanilide (OPB-9195), 
thus establishing the AGE-RAGE system as a promising target for overcoming this 
aspect of diabetic pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI11771
PMCID: PMC203021
PMID: 11457879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Br J Gen Pract. 2001 Apr;51(465):286-90.

Rural general practitioners' experience of the provision of out-of-hours care: a 
qualitative study.

Cuddy NJ(1), Keane AM, Murphy AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, National University of Ireland, Galway. 
general.practice@nuigalway.ie

BACKGROUND: Published research into the provision and utilisation of 
out-of-hours services shows long-term trends towards decreasing personal 
commitment among general practitioners (GPs). However, the on-call commitments 
of rural GPs remain especially onerous. There has been little research relating 
to either rural out-of-hours services or the implications of such services for 
the families of the providers.
AIM: To explore and describe how rural GPs in Ireland perceive and experience 
out-of-hours care provision.
DESIGN OF STUDY: A qualitative study was conducted with 10 rural GPs and their 
spouses in their homes or practices using one-to-one in-depth interviews.
SETTING: Ten general practices in rural Ireland.
METHOD: The interviews were guided by an interview schedule that was based on 
pertinent themes that had emerged from previous relevant literature. The 
interviews were audiotaped, transcribed, and analysed for themes and issues.
RESULTS: Results indicated that rural GPs experience a wide variety of 
satisfactions from work related to the provision of out-of-hours care. However, 
the large proportion of time committed to out-of-hours care greatly infringes on 
their social and family life. The key stressors identified related to 
organisational system difficulties, especially with regard to locum cover, and 
unrealistic patient expectations. The stressors were mainly expressed as lack of 
time off, restrictions on family life, and interruptions.
CONCLUSION: System difficulties, such as difficulty with obtaining locums and 
rota extension, need to be addressed at an organisational level. Patient 
expectations of the role of the rural GP have significant implications for 
practitioners and their families.

PMCID: PMC1313978
PMID: 11458481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


