282. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 2001;90(2):92-9.

Results of infrainguinal bypass surgery: an analysis of 263 consecutive 
operations.

Jämsén T(1), Tulla H, Manninen H, Räisänen H, Lahtinen S, Aittola V, Jaakkola P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Radiology, Kuopio University Hospital, Finland. 
tiia.jamsen@kuh.fi

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The purpose of this clinical study was to assess the 
success of infrainguinal revascularization in the treatment of lower limb 
ischaemia.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 226 consecutive patients underwent 263 femoropopliteal (n 
= 194) or femorodistal (n = 69) bypass operations during 1988-1996 at a 
university hospital. Records of all patients were reviewed. Late control visits 
including clinical and colour doppler ultrasound examinations were programmed 
for 109 patients. Initial success, primary and secondary patencies, limb salvage 
and survival rates were determined and factors affecting outcome were analysed 
in various patient categories.
RESULTS: Initial success rate was 92% (243/263). The primary and secondary 
patencies were 70/83% and 52/63% at one and five years, respectively. The 
corresponding limb salvage rates for patients with chronic critical ischaemia 
were 82% and 77%. The number of diseased vessels in the treated limb correlated 
negatively with the primary patency. Advanced age did not affect primary patency 
or limb salvage rates. Diabetes and the use of distal revascularizations were 
independent predictors of poorer limb salvage. Diabetes and renal insufficiency 
proved to shorten life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Infrainguinal revascularizations are effective regardless of 
patient's age. The extent of atherosclerotic changes in the operated limb, 
diabetes and renal insufficiency are factors affecting outcome.

PMID: 11459265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Health Policy. 2001 Sep;57(3):169-77. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00134-2.

Computer-assisted health impact assessment for intersectoral health policy.

Mooy JM(1), Gunning-Schepers LJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine, Academic Medical Centre, University of 
Amsterdam, PO Box 2700, 1100 DE Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Intersectoral health policy implies negotiations with politicians outside the 
health sector. Health politicians have a stronger position if they can quantify 
health impact. In this Dutch case-study we used a computer simulation approach 
to answer the following questions: Which anti-tobacco intervention has the 
largest health gain? Will a commuter cycling policy result in any substantial 
health gain? What is the relative health gain of promoting higher consumption of 
vegetables and fruit? We concluded that substantial health gain can be achieved 
if cigarette packet price were to increase by 2 Dutch guilders. A commitment of 
all general practitioners to implement a smoking cessation intervention will 
result in a similar health gain. Stimulating commuter cycling could be a 
promising example of intersectoral health policy. Interventions to promote 
higher vegetable and fruit consumption will result in a relatively small health 
gain. Pros and cons of simulation models to support intersectoral health policy 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00134-2
PMID: 11459624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Bull Cancer. 2001 Jun;88(6):605-18.

[Standards, Options and Recommendations for home parenteral or enteral nutrition 
in adult cancer patients].

[Article in French]

Schneider S(1), Blanc-Vincent MP, Nitenberg G, Senesse P, Bachmann P, Colomb V, 
Desport JC, Gory-Delabaere G, Kere D, Raynard B, Melchior JC; Fédération 
Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer.

Author information:
(1)FNCLCC, Standards, Options, Recommandations, 101, rue de Tolbiac, 75654 Paris 
Cedex 13.

CONTEXT: The "Standards, Options and Recommendations" (SOR) project, started in 
1993, is a collaboration between the Federation of the French Cancer Centres 
(FNCLCC), the 20 French Cancer Centres and specialists from French Public 
Universities, General Hospitals and Private Clinics. The main objective is the 
development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health 
care and outcome for cancer patients. The methodology is based on literature 
review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts, with 
feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery.
OBJECTIVES: To develop clinical practice guidelines according to the definitions 
of the Standards, Options and Recommendations project for home parenteral or 
enteral nutrition in adult cancer patients.
METHODS: Data were identified by searching Medline, Cancerlit, web sites and 
using the personal reference lists of members of the expert groups. Once the 
guidelines were defined, the document was submitted for review to 72 independent 
reviewers.
RESULTS: The main recommendations for home parenteral or enteral nutrition in 
adult cancer patients are: 1) Home parenteral or enteral nutrition concerns 
cancer patients with malnutrition or with inadequate/impossible oral intake, 
during therapy of because of therapeutic after-effects (standard). Same 
indications apply for home and hospital artificial nutrition (standard). 2) 
Patients need a multidisciplinary follow-up (oncologists, nutritionists, and 
pain specialists), and this follow-up will make treatment adaptations according 
to the nutritional status possible (recommendation, expert agreement). An active 
participation of patients and/or their family circle is very important 
(standard). 3) The benefit of home parenteral or enteral nutrition on the 
quality of life of terminally ill patients (vs. hydration) has not been 
demonstrated. When life expectancy is below 3 months, and the Karnofsky index 
below 50, the drawbacks of home artificial nutrition are more important than its 
advantages. In this case, home parenteral or enteral nutrition is not 
recommended (recommendation, expert agreement). 4) Prospective clinical trials 
are recommended to evaluate the impact of home nutrition on quality of life in 
cancer patients (expert agreement). 5) The use of educational booklets that 
mention the telephone number of a referent health care and what to do when a 
problem happens (e.g. fever on home parenteral nutrition) is recommended (expert 
agreement). In France, patients should be referred to authorized home parenteral 
nutrition centres (recommendation, expert agreement).

PMID: 11459708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Minerva Chir. 2001 Aug;56(4):393-7.

[Lung surgery in the elderly].

[Article in Italian]

Tosato F(1), Marano S, Corsini P, Palermo S, Piraino A, Monsellato I, Carnevale 
L, Scocchera F, Vasapollo L, Paolini A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche e Tecnologiche Mediche Applicate, 
Università degli Studi La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

Lung surgery in the elderly, once considered a major risk, to be avoided if 
possible has become more popular in recent years as a result of many factors. 
First: lung cancer incidence has increased significantly in every age group but 
mostly in the elderly. Second: diagnosis at an early stage of the disease is 
higher in patients over 70 due to more frequent medical control in old subjects. 
Third: we now have more and more humans over 80 and a life expectancy increasing 
over the years. Fourth: preoperative, operative and postoperative medical 
supports are now safer and more reliable than previously. Operability criteria 
in the elderly are substantially the same as in younger group of patients for 
lung cancer. There are no reasons to refuse surgery in a subject over 80 because 
he is old. Lobectomy is the procedure of choice for lung cancer even in the 
elderly. Pneumonectomy must be avoided preferring a less radical procedure 
(wedge resection) so avoiding the risk of a postoperative respiratory failure 
that is often fatal for a patient with in border line functional respiratory 
tests, as often happens in the elderly. Thoracoscopic atypical resections must 
be considered in patients when a wedge resection is indicated preoperatively and 
almost always metastatic pulmonary lesion.

PMID: 11460075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 2001;18(2):135-47. doi:
10.1515/dmdi.2001.18.2.135.

Interspecies scaling: is a priori knowledge of cytochrome p450 isozymes involved 
in drug metabolism helpful in prediction of clearance in humans from animal 
data?

Mahmood I(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Evaluation I, Office of Clinical Pharmacology and 
Biopharmaceutics, Food & Drug Administration, Rockville, MD 20852, USA. 
Mahmoodi@CDER.FDA.GOV

The objective of this study was to evaluate whether a priori knowledge of 
cytochrome P450 isozymes involved in drug metabolism coupled with Mahmood' and 
Balian's 'rule of exponents' can be helpful for the prediction of clearance in 
humans using animal data. The clearance of 27 randomly selected drugs 
metabolized by different isozymes were scaled up from the animal data (at least 
three animal species) obtained from the literature. Three methods were utilized 
to generate allometric equations to scale up the clearance values: (i) clearance 
vs body weight (simple allometry); (ii) product of the clearance and maximum 
life-span potential (MLP) vs body weight; and (iii) the product of clearance and 
brain weight vs body weight. The choice of one of the methods was based on the 
'rule of exponents' as described by Mahmood and Balian. The results of this 
study indicate that the knowledge of a particular isozyme does not provide a 
guide for the failure or success of allometry for the prediction of clearance. 
There is no trend which indicates that the chances of accurate prediction of 
clearance for a given drug are comparatively higher or lower when they are 
metabolized by a particular isozyme.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.2001.18.2.135
PMID: 11460876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Exp Mol Med. 2001 Jun 30;33(2):76-82. doi: 10.1038/emm.2001.14.

Cloning and characterization of 5'-upstream region of human phospholipase 
C-beta2 gene.

Yun ES(1), Lee SJ, Kim MJ, Ryu SH, Suh PG.

Author information:
(1)Dept. Life Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Korea.

5'-upstream region of the phospholipase C-beta2 gene, 810 bp, was cloned and 
characterized. S1 nuclease mapping and primer extension analyses revealed that a 
single transcriptional start site locates at 284 nucleotides upstream from the 
beginning of translation. The 5-upstream region lacks both TATA motif and 
typical initiator sequence, but retains GC-rich segment. Two putative regulatory 
regions, a negative region (-636/-588) and a positive region (-98/ -13) were 
identified in the upstream region of PLC-beta2 gene. We suggest that the 
transcription of PLC-beta2 may be regulated by binding of regulatory proteins to 
the negative and/or positive regulatory regions located in the upstream of the 
gene.

DOI: 10.1038/emm.2001.14
PMID: 11460885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Med Assoc Thai. 2001 Mar;84(3):349-56.

Dependence and active life expectancy of the elderly population living in the 
central region of Thailand.

Jitapunkul S(1), Krungkraipetch N, Kamolratanakul P, Dhanamun B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence and the independent socio-economic 
factors with respect to the dependence status of the Thai elderly population 
living in the central region and to calculate the active life expectancy (ALE) 
based on the results of this survey and abridged life tables for Thailand.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional mulitistage random sampling survey.
SETTING: Communities in the central region, Thailand.
SUBJECTS: 723 elderly subjects.
RESULTS: Mean age and its standard deviation (SD) of the 723 recruited subjects 
were 69.9 and 7.3 years, respectively. Forty three per cent of the subjects were 
men. Mean values (SD) of the BAI score and the CAI score were 18.78 (2.6) and 
6.47 (2.4), respectively. Except for housework, elderly women had a higher 
prevalence rate of dependence on activities of daily living (ADL) compared with 
elderly men. Seven univariate factors of the BAI and the CAI were demonstrated. 
According to the multiple linear regression analysis by entering all univariate 
factors of the BAI and the CAI except "working status", independent factors of 
both the BAI (adjusted R2 = 0.051) and the CAI (adjusted R2 = 0.146) were age, 
sex and writing ability. The prevalence rate (95% confidence interval) of 
dependence regarding self-care activities of daily living was 5.9 per cent 
(4.2-7.6%). The rate of dependence increased with age. The female elderly were 
more dependent on self care than their male counterparts. Although the elderly 
women live longer than the elderly men, they spend more years in a severely 
dependent state. Findings on ratios between health and life expectancy 
demonstrate that Thai men spend more proportional time leading a healthy life 
than Thai women.
CONCLUSION: Prevalence rates of dependence regarding activities of daily living 
among the Thai elderly living in the Central region were rather high showing the 
health of elderly women to be worse than that of elderly men. The elderly women 
spend more years in a severely dependent state although they live longer than 
the elderly men.

PMID: 11460935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2001 Jul;22(1):57-61. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1401.

The impact of stent-graft development on outcome of AAA repair--a 7-year 
experience.

Resch T(1), Malina M, Lindblad B, Ivancev K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Malmö University Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: to analyse the impact of stent-graft (SG) design and operator skill 
on the outcome of endovascular AAA repair.
DESIGN: prospective non-randomised open.
MATERIAL: a total of 158 patients (mean age 71) underwent SG repair. Patients 
were treated with five different types of SG: first (n =58) and second ( n =17) 
generation Ivancev-Malmö monoiliac SG (IM I and IM II respectively) combined 
with femoral-femoral crossover, Chuter bifurcated SG (n =15), Vanguard SG ( n 
=15) and the Zenith SG ( n =53).
METHODS: patients underwent DSA and contrast CT preoperatively and were then 
followed with CT and digital scans. Recently, one change in AAA diameter and 
endoleaks (EL) were recorded. Mortality, complications and secondary 
interventions were recorded and life-table analysis for intervention-free SG 
survival calculated.
RESULTS: immediate and late conversions as well as 30-day mortality were reduced 
for 2nd (Zenith and Vanguard) compared to 1st generation SG (IM I, Im II and 
chuter). SG migrations occurred only with the IM I and Chuter SG. Type I EL were 
significantly more common in 1st generation SG. First generation SG required 
significantly more secondary interventions than 2nd SG up to 20 months 
post-operatively. The number of unplanned intraoperative adjunctive manoeuvres 
was increased with 2nd SG.
CONCLUSIONS: enhanced SG design has improved the probability of SG success after 
endovascular AAA repair. Better technical skills may also have contributed to 
improved results.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Limited.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1401
PMID: 11461105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Epilepsy Res. 2001 May;45(1-3):109-17; discussion 119, 121-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0920-1211(01)00232-7.

Monotherapy trials: endpoints.

Mattson RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Yale University, 333 Cedar Street, 701 LCI, New 
Haven, CT 06510, USA. richard.mattson@yale.edu

Monotherapy antiepileptic drug (AED) trials can optimally provide information 
concerning efficacy and tolerability of one drug compared with placebo, as well 
as to different doses or rates of administration. Commonly, a drug is compared 
with one or more other drugs. The outcome measures will be dictated by the 
questions being asked. In most comparative studies, the single overall result 
that best defines success or failure is time of continuation on drug as 
expressed in a life table. Discontinuation before planned completion of the 
study implies insufficient efficacy or unacceptable adverse effects. A 
statistically significant difference between treatments provides important 
support for recommending the drug or dose with the best outcome. The criteria 
for continuation/discontinuation are defined in the design based on the expected 
outcome. The outcome of primary importance is efficacy in prevention of seizures 
or a decrease in severity. Complete control for the duration of the study is the 
ultimate goal but in some populations may not be possible. The number of 
subjects entering remission gives further information about long term outcome. 
Time to first (nth) seizure provides similar evidence of efficacy. Seizure rates 
allow comparisons of subjects retained for different lengths of time in the 
trial. Differences in seizure severity may be of clinical importance and 
multiple efforts have been made to develop instruments to accurately measure 
this outcome. Adverse effects of the drugs are the second major outcome. These 
can be expressed as incidence and/or prevalence. The presence and frequency of 
side effects will depend on how the study is designed and whether these effects 
are specifically sought by the investigators. Serious systemic safety outcomes 
are monitored, but the relative infrequency of occurrence and number of subjects 
in the trials usually do not provide enough power to detect statistically 
significant differences except for rash. Tolerability is more easily documented 
but is difficult to access accurately in the absence of placebo controls. 
Frequency, severity and persistence are measurable. Specific unwanted types of 
drug effects can be specifically studied using detailed neuropsychological test 
batteries. Some information concerning pharmacokinetic properties may be 
obtained but are better assessed in other types of trials. A final important 
outcome is the effect of drug therapy on quality of life. Although a favorable 
finding in this outcome is most desirable, the measures used are much less 
precise than those for efficacy and adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0920-1211(01)00232-7
PMID: 11461809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J R Soc Med. 2001 Aug;94(8):418-9. doi: 10.1177/014107680109400814.

65 years of mobile life for all?

Loefler IJ.

DOI: 10.1177/014107680109400814
PMCID: PMC1281641
PMID: 11461991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2001 Jun;931:396-408.

Adult ADHD. Concluding thoughts.

Wolf LE(1), Wasserstein J.

Author information:
(1)Office of Disability Services and Department of Psychiatry, Boston 
University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. lwolf@bu.edu

This concluding paper raises some final questions and issues that the authors 
feel should receive more emphasis in future research on ADHD in adults. One 
significant problem for our field is the upward extension of child-based models 
and approaches without proper adaptation to adults. With adults differing 
patterns of comorbidity and symptom heterogeneity pose new conceptual, 
diagnostic, and treatment challenges. As an illustration, we review ten common 
presenting complaints in adults and their link to the underlying core ADHD 
deficits of hyperkinesis, inattention, and impulsivity. While these core 
symptoms are often overt problems in children, in adults subtler executive 
dysfunction appears. Even though the growing consensus is that ADHD is a 
disorder of executive functions (EF), the details of the EF/ADHD connection 
remain unclear and may be far more complex in adults. That complexity is 
mirrored in the widening anatomic representation of EF, extending beyond the 
frontal lobes into the subcortex and other nonfrontal regions. More research 
will be needed to follow the developmental trajectory of executive dysfunction 
in ADHD over the life cycle and tie this to the developmental neuropsychology of 
EF. Psychosocial context and nongenetic familial influence are also critical 
variables that need greater consideration when characterizing and measuring ADHD 
symptoms in adults. Finally, until we have reached consensus on adult subject 
selection, we may not be able to enhance diagnostic rigor or expand our 
conceptual framework for understanding the underlying pathophysiology of ADHD in 
adults.

PMID: 11462756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Hepatogastroenterology. 2001 May-Jun;48(39):794-7.

Salvaging procedures for dysfunctional peritoneovenous shunt.

Hu RH(1), Lee PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital, 7 Chung-Shan 
South Rd., Taipei 100, Taiwan, R.O.C.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Peritoneovenous shunt is one of the treatments for refractory 
ascites. However, the dysfunction of the shunt is frequently seen and needs 
further management. We in this manuscript reported our experience in the 
salvaging procedures of dysfunctional peritoneovenous shunt.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 29 Denver shunts were constructed for the management of 
refractory ascites at the Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital since January 1992 to February 1999. A cross-sectional case study was 
performed.
RESULTS: There was a total of 20 cases of mechanical dysfunction for these 29 
patients. In the management of 6 peritoneal catheter occlusions which occurred 
in the early phase of this series, revision was performed by lengthening of the 
peritoneal catheter with a peritoneal dialysis catheter so that the catheter tip 
could rest in the Douglas pouch. The same procedure was adopted in the last 14 
consecutive Denver shunts and this significantly decreased the incidence of 
peritoneal catheter occlusion (6/15 vs. 0/14, P = 0.011 by Fisher's exact test). 
In the 6 episodes of valve occlusion, the reservoir of the Denver shunt was 
replaced with a new one but the peritoneal and venous catheters were not 
changed. In the 8 episodes of venous catheter dysfunction, two venous catheters 
slipping out were managed by lengthening the catheter with a large-bore Hickmann 
catheter. In the other 6 episodes, a new venous catheter was inserted to the 
other side of the internal jugular vein or saphenous vein through a subcutaneous 
tunnel and the catheter was connected to the reservoir with a connector.
CONCLUSIONS: Although peritoneovenous shunt did not prolong the life expectancy 
of the patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis, it did relieve tense ascites 
rapidly and improve the quality of life remarkably. The modifications and 
salvaging procedures we used in our series could restore a dysfunctional Denver 
shunt easier, safer and with a higher cost-saving than a total revision of the 
shunt.

PMID: 11462926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Health Econ. 2001 Jul;20(4):613-38. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00080-7.

The meaning of death: some simulations of a model of healthy and unhealthy 
consumption.

Forster M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Related Studies, University of York, Heslington, 
UK. mf8@york.ac.uk

Simulations of a model of healthy and unhealthy consumption are used to 
investigate the impact of various terminal conditions on life-span, pathways of 
health-related consumption and health. A model in which life-span and the 
'death' stock of health are fixed is compared to versions in which (i) the 
'death' stock of health is freely chosen; (ii) life-span is freely chosen; (iii) 
both the 'death' stock of health and life-span are freely chosen. The choice of 
terminal conditions has a striking impact on optimal plans. Results are 
discussed with reference to the existing demand for health literature and 
illustrate the application of iterative processes to determine optimal 
life-span, the role played by the marginal value of health capital in 
determining optimal plans, and the importance of checking the second-order 
conditions for the optimal choice of life-span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00080-7
PMID: 11463191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2001 Aug;20(2):312-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(01)00801-6.

A UK trial-based cost--utility analysis of transmyocardial laser 
revascularization compared to continued medical therapy for treatment of 
refractory angina pectoris.

Campbell HE(1), Tait S, Buxton MJ, Sharples LD, Caine N, Schofield PM, Wallwork 
J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 
3PH, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMLR) is used to treat 
patients with refractory angina considered unsuitable for conventional forms of 
revascularization. Using patient specific data from a single centre UK 
randomised-controlled trial, we aimed to determine whether, from a UK National 
Health Service (NHS) perspective, TMLR plus standard medical management is 
cost-effective when compared with standard medical management alone.
METHODS: One hundred and eighty-eight patients assessed as having refractory 
angina, and not suitable for conventional forms of revascularization were 
randomized to receive TMLR and medical management (94) or medical management 
alone (94). Costs to the UK NHS of TMLR (where appropriate), and all secondary 
sector health care contacts and cardiac-related medication in the 12 months 
following randomization, were collected. Patient utility as measured using the 
EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire was combined with 12-month survival data to generate 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The mean cost per patient over the year from hospitalization for TMLR 
was 11,470 pounds sterling and for medical management alone was 2586 pounds 
sterling, giving a cost difference of 8901 pounds sterling (95% confidence 
interval (CI) 7502 pounds sterling--10,008 pounds sterling: P < 0.0001). The 
mean QALY difference, in favour of TMLR was 0.039 (95% CI -0.033 to 0.113: P = 
0.268). This gives an incremental cost per QALY of over 228,000 pounds sterling. 
Analysis of stochastic uncertainty and of sensitivity to gross changes in key 
parameters consistently produces very high costs per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The policy implications are clear: for such patients TMLR is an 
inefficient use of UK health service resources. This conclusion would not be 
changed by considerable improvements in effectiveness or reductions in cost.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(01)00801-6
PMID: 11463549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2000 Dec;40(12):1189-92.

[Prediction on the medical care system for the aged people in the new century].

[Article in Japanese]

Igata A.

Japan has become the country with the longest life expectancy in the world in 
about 25 years. Among many factors for this success, the medical care system, 
including the health insurance for everyone, played the important role, which 
has been evaluated as the best in the world. However, since the national economy 
in Japan has become recently suppressed it has become one of the big political 
problems to keep this system as same as before. In addition, the medical 
expenses for the elderly and aged people is now as high as 40% of all. In this 
meaning, we should create the better system by ourselves, based on ethical 
criteria, harmonized with the progress of medicine. In April of 2000, the new 
long term care system was introduced aiming the self independence of aged 
people. Now, the medical and long term care system has become unified into one 
toward the ideal society in the future. In this paper, the ideal medical care 
system, especially for the aged people was discussed. Needless to say, the 
medical care system should have widely view to the future. The progress of 
medicine, high technology and health promotion will play very important parts to 
create the ideal society in future. If any geriatric diseases including senile 
dementia will be settled in near future, the medical care system for the aged 
will change completely. In addition, the nationwide campaign of health promotion 
will induce excellent results. Thus the society in the future will become much 
brighter and happier. In this meaning, health promotion, medical care, and 
welfare systems should be unified into one system. The expenses for these 
systems should be regarded as the investments expecting the huge profit in 
health and happiness in the future.

PMID: 11464454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nefrologia. 2001 Mar-Apr;21(2):160-6.

[Risk factors associated with survival in patients in a peritoneal dialysis 
program].

[Article in Spanish]

Sancho A(1), Pérez Ruixo JJ, Górriz JL, Miguel A, García Ramón R, Avila A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Universitario Dr. Peset, Avda. Gaspar 
Aguilar, 90 46017 Valencia.

The aim of this study was to quantify the effect of different mortality risk 
factors in peritoneal dialysis and to establish a prognostic index that could 
predict mortality risk when patients start dialysis. A prospective study was 
performed on 103 patients included in our peritoneal dialysis program. The mean 
follow-up time was 26 +/- 21 months. A multivariate analysis (Cox regression was 
made to identify different risk factors that could influence patient survival 
during peritoneal dialysis. Age, gender, parathyroid hormone, albumin, 
cholesterol, and the presence of diabetes mellitus were evaluated as potential 
risk factors. Patients were distributed in three groups (high, medium and low 
risk), according to the risk factors with a significant influence in 
multivariate analysis, and patient survival was studied depending on the 
prognostic index using Kaplan-Meier estimator. Overall patient survival was 90% 
(95%CI: 83 to 96%) after the first year and 40% (95%IC: 32 to 58%) after 5 years 
of follow-up. The Cox regression analysis identified albumin below 4 g/dL (RR: 
2.57; 95% CI: 1.16 to 5.72), age older than 65 years RR: 3.10; 95%IC: 1.20 to 
7.98) and diabetes mellitus (relative risk, RR: 4.36; 95%IC: 1.43 to 13.31) as 
independent risk factors for mortality in patients receiving peritoneal 
dialysis. Patient survival after two years was 40% (95%IC: 31 to 59%), 73% 
(95%IC: 60 a 86%) and 100% (p < 0.05), respectively. Malnutrition and related 
factors in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis are associated with a higher 
mortality rate.

PMID: 11464649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nefrologia. 2001 Mar-Apr;21(2):182-90.

[Endoluminal percutaneous thrombectomy as a treatment for acute vascular access 
thrombosis: long-term results of 123 procedures].

[Article in Spanish]

Górriz JL(1), Martínez-Rodrigo J, Sancho A, Palmero J, Avila A, Blanes I, 
Lonjedo E, de la Cueva L, Crespo JF, Alcoy E, Caballero E, Pallardó LM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Universitario Dr. Peset, Avda. Gaspar 
Aguilar, 90 46017 Valencia. gorriz_jlu@gva.es

Percutaneous treatment of thrombosis of occluded vascular access (VA) for 
haemodialysis (HD) has been an alternative to surgical and pharmacological 
treatments, but long term results are not well defined. The aim of our study was 
to analyse the long term results of percutaneous thrombectomy as a treatment of 
occluded VA for HD. We conducted a prospective study from june 1995 to april 
1999, including 123 consecutive thrombectomies in 64 VA in patients submitted to 
our hospital because of recent thrombosis of VA for HD. We used two different 
techniques, hydrodynamic catheter thrombectomy (Hydrolyser) in the 42 first 
procedures (34.1%), and since october 1996 we used mechanical balloon 
thrombolysis in the remaining 81 patients (65.9%). Underlying stenoses were 
evaluated by angiography, and treated by angioplasty. After the procedure, 
intravenous heparin was administered for 24 hours. The VA were 28 Brescia-Cimino 
arteriovenous fistulae (30.4%) and 64 PTFE grafts (69.6%).
PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS: mean age: 63 +/- 15 years (18-84), previous VA: 3.3 +/- 
2.5 (0-9). The mean follow-up was 10.5 +/- 8.6 months (3-35). Percutaneous 
thrombectomy was able to remove the clots in 120 instances (technical success: 
97.5%). After the thrombectomy 15 patients (16.3%) were immediately referred to 
the surgeon to perform a new VA due to vascular lesions in which percutaneous 
treatment was not indicated. Thirteen cases (14.1%) showed early thrombosis (< 
72 hours). During the follow-up, 27 cases developed thrombosis (30%) and 26 VA 
were still patent (28.3%). In 23% of perfusion lung scans and in 2 of the 5 
angiographies performed after thrombectomy, subsegmentary or segmentary 
perfusion defects were detected, without clinical significance. There were no 
relevant undesirable effects related to the technique and no symptomatic 
pulmonary embolism. In summary, percutaneous thrombectomy, whether hydrodynamic 
or mechanical, has shown to be an efficacious treatment of VA thrombosis for HD, 
preserving the VA with satisfactory long-term results.

PMID: 11464652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Popul Trends. 2001 Summer;(104):6-11.

The demographic situation in the European Union.

Pearce D, Bovagnet FC.

This article draws selected material from the annual Yearbook on Demography 
(2000 edition) published by Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European 
Communities. Some key comparisons with other regions of the world are included, 
together with a broad picture of the demographic situation in the European 
Union. Topic coverage is selective.

PMID: 11464735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):11-3. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<11::AID-MPO1004>3.0.CO;2-M.

Distal chromosome 17 gains in neuroblastomas detected by comparative genomic 
hybridization (CGH) are associated with a poor clinical outcome.

Brinkschmidt C(1), Christiansen H, Terpe HJ, Simon R, Lampert F, Boecker W, 
Dockhorn-Dworniczak B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Münster, Germany. 
brinkch@uni-muenster.de

PROCEDURE: To establish the significance of chromosome 17 aberrations in the 
biology of neuroblastomas, the fresh-frozen material of 53 primary 
neuroblastomas (average patient age: 20.8 months; stage 1 or 2: n = 10; stage 3: 
n = 10; stage 4: n = 10; stage 4s: n = 23) was studied by means of comparative 
genomic hybridization (CGH). Follow-up data were available for 52 of 53 cases 
studied (average follow-up period: 26.4 months). Except for one, all cases had 
previously been analyzed for MYCN status (semiquantitative Southern blot 
analysis). Studies of LOH 1p36 (VNTR-PCR) had been performed on 28 of 53 cases.
RESULTS: Chromosome 17 gains were detected in 46 of 53 (86.8%) cases. Whole 
chromosome gains were mostly restricted to localized tumors (stage 1 or 2: 9 of 
10 cases; stage 4s:19 of 23; stage 3: 2 of 10; stage 4:0 of 10 cases), whereas 
distal 17 gains were significantly associated with clinically advanced tumor 
stages and patients aged over 1 year at diagnosis. Univariate analyses revealed 
a statistically significant correlation of distal 17q gains with overall 
survival (P< 0.01, MYCN amplification: P< 0.01; 1p deletion: P< 0.01) and an 
elevated recurrency rate (17q: P= 0.02, MYCN amplification: P = 0.05; 1p 
deletion P= 0.3). There was a strong coincidence of distal 17q gains and 1p 
deletion or MYCN amplification (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that distal chromosome 17q gains are of major 
prognostic relevance for neuroblastoma patients. However, studies on a larger 
series of tumors have to be performed to assess whether or not these alterations 
are independent prognostic markers of a poor clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<11::AID-MPO1004>3.0.CO;2-M
PMID: 11464859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):14-9. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<14::AID-MPO1005>3.0.CO;2-G.

17q gain in neuroblastoma predicts adverse clinical outcome. U.K. Cancer 
Cytogenetics Group and the U.K. Children's Cancer Study Group.

Bown N(1), Lastowska M, Cotterill S, O'Neill S, Ellershaw C, Roberts P, Lewis I, 
Pearson AD; U.K. Cancer Cytogenetics Group and the U.K. Children's Cancer Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, United 
Kingdom. Nicholas.bown@ncl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: It is now recognized that gain of chromosome 17 material is the most 
frequent genetic abnormality of neuroblastoma cells. Several studies have linked 
17q gain with known adverse prognostic factors: patient age >1 year, advanced 
stage disease, deletion of chromosome arm 1 p, and amplification of the MYCN 
oncogene. We sought to further investigate the clinical and prognostic 
associations of chromosome 17 status in relation to other well-established 
predictive factors.
PROCEDURE: In a collaborative study by UK cytogenetics centres, we compiled a 
series of 104 neuroblastoma tumours for which the status of chromosome 17 was 
confidently defined by cytogenetics, metaphase or interphase FISH, or CGH 
analysis. The results were correlated with data on 1p and MYCN, and with 
centrally collated clinical and survival information.
RESULTS: Gain of 17q (i.e., unbalanced gain of segment 17q21-qter) was found in 
66.3% of tumours, while 33.7% showed a '17q normal' status (i.e., no gain at 
all, or gain of whole chromosome 17 relative to ploidy). Gain of 17q was 
strongly associated with advanced stage disease, patient age >1 year, 1p 
deletion, and MYCN amplification (all P< 0.01). In univariate analysis, 17q gain 
was a significant predictor of adverse outcome (projected 5 year relapse-free 
survival 15.6% compared to 75.2% in cases lacking this feature in tumour cells; 
(P < 0.0001). In multivariate analysis, 17q gain was more strongly associated 
with adverse outcome than was either stage (Stage 4 vs other combined) or 1p 
status.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that gain of chromosome segment 17q21-qter is of great 
biological and clinical importance in neuroblastoma, and that its detection at 
diagnosis should be a priority.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<14::AID-MPO1005>3.0.CO;2-G
PMID: 11464868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):169-76. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<169::AID-MPO1041>3.0.CO;2-U.

Relationship between histopathological features, MYCN amplification, and 
prognosis: a UKCCSG study. United Kingdom Children Cancer Study Group.

George RE(1), Variend S, Cullinane C, Cotterill SJ, McGuckin AG, Ellershaw C, 
Lunec J, Pearson AD; United Kingdom Children Cancer Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Unit, Medical School, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, 
United Kingdom.

Histological sections from 231 patients with neuroblastoma were reviewed and 
morphological features and their relationship to age, stage, MYCN amplification 
(in 128 tumours by Southern analyses), and clinical outcome (based on Shimada 
risk grouping) determined. Stage 4 disease was associated with poorly 
differentiated and undifferentiated tumours (P = 0.001), an MKI of >2% (P< 
0.001), and Shimada unfavourable histology (UHi) P< 0.0001. In univariate 
analysis MKI was significant in predicting a poorer relapse-free survival (RFS), 
low vs. intermediate and high (P< 0.001). Age, MYCN amplification, and Shimada 
UH also emerged as significant variables. There was a higher proportion of 
MYCN-amplified tumours with Shimada UH (P = 0.03), and this group had a 
decreased RFS (P = 0.002). In patients with Shimada FH, MYCN amplification did 
not significantly predict a poor prognosis. In those with stage 4 disease, 
Shimada classification was not significant in predicting survival (P = 0.97); 
the same was true for those over the age of 1 year (P = 0.66). In multivariate 
analysis, MYCN amplification and Shimada UH both emerged as independent 
prognostic factors. In conclusion, morphological features assigned some subsets 
of patients to prognostic risk groups. Most MYCN-amplified tumours have 
unfavourable histology and a poorer prognosis. However, in patients with stage 4 
disease and those over the age of 1 year, other factors that may influence 
prognosis should be determined.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<169::AID-MPO1041>3.0.CO;2-U
PMID: 11464876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):203-4. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<203::AID-MPO1049>3.0.CO;2-T.

Outcome prediction by molecular detection of minimal residual disease in bone 
marrow for advanced neuroblastoma.

Horibe K(1), Fukuda M, Miyajima Y, Matsumoto K, Kondo M, Inaba J, Miyashita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan. 
khoribe@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: We have determined whether sequential molecular detection of minimal 
residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow (BM) could predict the outcome of patients 
with advanced neuroblastoma (NB).
PROCEDURE: Bone marrow samples from 19 patients over 12 months of age with stage 
4 neuroblastoma were sequentially examined for tumor cell contamination by 
detecting tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA using reverse transcription-polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR). All patients received repetitive multi-drug 
chemotherapy including cisplatin, cyclophosphamide or ifosphamide, adriamycin, 
and etoposide or vincristine. Seventeen patients received myeloablative therapy 
with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after achieving complete remission.
RESULTS: All but one patient were histologically positive for tumor cells in BM 
samples at diagnosis, and they became negative for tumor cells within 3 months 
histologically. By the RT-PCR analysis, all patients were positive for TH mRNA 
in BM samples at diagnosis, and they became negative for TH mRNA 1 to 13 months 
after the start of chemotherapy. Six patients whose BM samples became negative 
for TH mRNA within 4 months after the start of chemotherapy remained alive 
without evidence of disease (median 61 months, range 20-76). In contrast, 12 of 
13 patients whose BM samples remained positive at that time developed relapse 
and 10 of them died of disease (median 24 months, range 13-43). There was a 
statistically significant difference in survival between the two groups (P < 
0.05). No significant difference of clinical characteristics by the MRD 
positivity at 4 months after the start of chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Persistence of MRD in BM at 4 months after the start of 
chemotherapy could predict poor prognosis in advanced neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<203::AID-MPO1049>3.0.CO;2-T
PMID: 11464885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):213-9. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<213::AID-MPO1052>3.0.CO;2-9.

Minimal residual disease at the time of peripheral blood stem cell harvest in 
patients with advanced neuroblastoma.

Burchill SA(1), Kinsey SE, Picton S, Roberts P, Pinkerton CR, Selby P, Lewis IJ.

Author information:
(1)Candlelighter's Children's Cancer Research Laboratory, St. James's University 
Hospital, Leeds, United Kingdom. S.A.Burchill@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Despite treatment with high-dose myeloblative chemotherapy and 
peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) rescue, a high proportion of children with 
neuroblastoma relapse and die. Re-infusion of PBSC contaminated with tumour at 
the time of autologous transplantation may play a significant role in this 
relapse. In this study the frequency of tumour contamination in PB from children 
with neuroblastoma has been investigated.
PROCEDURE: Minimal residual disease was measured using RT-PCR for tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH) mRNA in PBSCs from patients with advanced neuroblastoma. PBSCs 
from 18 patients in complete clinical remission were studied.
RESULTS: Studies in other cancers have suggested minimal contamination of PBSCs 
with tumour cells; TH mRNA was detected by RT-PCR in 50% (9/18) of PBSC 
harvests. Seventy-seven percent (7/9) of patients with TH mRNA in PBSC died of 
disease compared to 44% (4/9) who were TH mRNA-negative.
CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, the presence of TH mRNA in PBSCs appeared to be 
associated with an unfavourable outcome, although this was not statistically 
significant. In summary, RT-PCR for TH mRNA is a sensitive method for the 
identification of tumour cells in PBSC harvest. The presence of TH mRNA in PBSC 
harvest may reflect disease status and be associated with an unfavourable 
outcome, although long-term clinical outcome studies in a larger patient cohort 
are required.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<213::AID-MPO1052>3.0.CO;2-9
PMID: 11464888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):220-3. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<220::AID-MPO1053>3.0.CO;2-6.

Evaluation of catecholamine metabolites, mIBG scan, and bone marrow cytology as 
response markers in stage 4 neuroblastoma.

Hero B(1), Hunneman DH, Gahr M, Berthold F.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of the University of Cologne, Köln, Germany. 
barbara.hero@medizin.uni-koeln.de

BACKGROUND: The early biological response has been proved an excellent predictor 
in acute lymphoblastic leukemia and nephroblastoma. We asked whether 
catecholamine metabolites, mIBG scan, and bone marrow evaluation might be 
relevant response markers in disseminated neuroblastoma.
PROCEDURE: Three hundred sixty-seven unselected stage 4 neuroblastoma patients 
treated according the German cooperative trial NB90 were entered into the study. 
Catecholamine plasma and urine levels were centrally determined by gas 
chromatography/ mass spectrometry. Bone marrow cytology and mIBG scans were 
evaluated by local investigators.
RESULTS: At diagnosis, mIBG scan was positive in 306 patients (92%), borderline 
in seven patients (2%), and negative in 19 patients (6%). Bone marrow aspirates 
were cytologically positive in 292 patients (84%) and negative in 57 patients 
(16%). Plasma catecholamine levels were elevated in 79% (206 of 260 patients.), 
urinary levels in 91% (307 of 338 patients). The outcome of patients with 
normalized mIBG scan after four courses of chemotherapy [5 year EFS (event free 
survival) 0.22 +/- 0.07] was not superior to the outcome of patients with still 
abnormal uptake (5 year EFS 0.30 +/- 0.05). The event free survival of patients 
with still positive bone marrow aspirates after four courses (0.16 +/- 0.06) was 
inferior to the EFS of patients with negative bone marrow aspirates (0.26 +/- 
0.04, P = 0.0054). Urinary catecholamine normalization after four cycles of 
chemotherapy (5 year EFS 0.35 +/- 0.06 versus 0.26 +/- 0.10) had no influence on 
outcome, whereas plasma catecholamine normalization after the first (5 year EFS 
0.40 +/- 0.09 versus 0.14 +/- 0.07, P= 0.0364) or the fourth cycle (5 year EFS 
0.35 +/- 0.06 versus 0.26 +/- 0.10, P = 0.0242) indicated a better outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: These data show that serial plasma catecholamine levels and bone 
marrow aspirates in the course of the disease are useful tools in predicting 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<220::AID-MPO1053>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 11464889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):224-6. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<224::AID-MPO1054>3.0.CO;2-#.

Somatostatin receptor type 2 gene expression in neuroblastoma, measured by 
competitive RT-PCR, is related to patient survival and to somatostatin receptor 
imaging by indium -111-pentetreotide.

Orlando C(1), Raggi CC, Bagnoni L, Sestini R, Briganti V, La Cava G, Bernini G, 
Tonini GP, Pazzagli M, Serio M, Maggi M.

Author information:
(1)Dep of Clinical Physiopathology, University of Florence, Italy. 
c.orlando@dfc.unifi.it

BACKGROUND: We previously reported that human neuroblastoma cell lines and 
primary neuroblastoma tumors expressed a variable amount of mRNA for type 2 
somatostatin (sst2) receptor gene. We also found that high level of sst2 
expression were positively related to patient survival.
PROCEDURE: We studied retrospectively 49 primary neuroblastomas. To detect and 
measure sst2 mRNA expression we developed a quantitative RT-PCR based on 
competitive PCR. When possible the number of MYCN copies was also measured with 
competitive PCR. RESULTS;. We found that the lowest level of sst2 mRNA was 
detected in advanced stages of neuroblastomas (stage IV) when compared with the 
other stages (P< 0.005). Patients with high levels of sst2 expression (>7 x 
10(7) molecules/microg RNA) had a cumulative survival better than those with low 
sst2 expression (P < 0.0005). This predictive independent value of sst2 (P= 
0.005) is retained after stratification for N-myc amplification. Finally we 
verified that the ex vivo sst2 gene expression in tumor samples was positively 
related (P < 0.01) to the in vivo semiquantitative determination of sst2 
protein, assessed by 111In-pentetreotide imaging.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that the measurement of sst2 mRNA measurement 
could represent a relevant tool in the prediction of neuroblastoma outcome, 
independently from MYCN amplification.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<224::AID-MPO1054>3.0.CO;2-#
PMID: 11464890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):231-4. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<231::AID-MPO1056>3.0.CO;2-U.

Neuroblastoma: changing incidence and survival in young people aged 0-24 years. 
A report from the North of England Young Persons' Malignant Disease Registry.

Cotterill SJ(1), Parker L, More L, Craft AW.

Author information:
(1)Sir James Spence Institute of Child Health, University of Newcastle upon 
Tyne, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURE: Population based data for neuroblastoma in children 
and young adults under 25 years at diagnosis were ascertained from the Northern 
Region Young Persons' Malignant Disease Registry for the period 1968-1995. 
Age-standardised incidence rates were calculated (ASR) and changes in incidence 
and survival were investigated. Over the study period 144 patients were 
registered, of these 136 were children under 15 years at diagnosis (median age: 
2.2 years, ASR: 8.6 cases per million children per year), and 8 were 15-24 years 
(ASR 0.6).
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Incidence of childhood neuroblastoma in the North of 
England increased significantly over time; ASRs were 5.8 for 1968-1981 and 9.5 
for 1982-1995 (rate ratio: 1.6, 95%; CI 1.2-2.3). The increase in incidence was 
seen in both infants and older children, and in both low stage and advanced 
disease. Overall 5 year survival was 15% for 1968-1981 and 40% for 1982-1995 (P 
< 0.0001). Significant improvements in survival were documented across different 
stage and age-groups, including those over 1 with stage 4 disease (0% versus 
18%, P < 0.0001). Further research is needed to investigate the reasons for the 
increasing incidence of neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<231::AID-MPO1056>3.0.CO;2-U
PMID: 11464892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):235-8. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<235::AID-MPO1057>3.0.CO;2-N.

Late relapse and prognosis for neuroblastoma patients surviving 5 years or more: 
a report from the European Neuroblastoma Study Group "Survey".

Cotterill SJ(1), Pearson AD, Pritchard J, Kohler JA, Foot AB; European 
Neuroblastoma Study Group and United Kingdom Children's Cancer Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle Upon Tyne, 
United Kingdom. S.J.Cotterill@ncl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURE: Most deaths from neuroblastoma occur within 2 years of 
diagnosis but there have been several anecdotal reports of relapse and death 
after much longer periods of follow up. In order to investigate and quantify the 
risk of late events we analysed data for patients registered with the European 
Neuroblastoma Study Group between 1982 and 1990. Out of a total of 1,277 
children registered, 427 were alive with follow-up beyond 5 years from diagnosis 
(median follow-up of 8.8 years, range 5-14 years). Of these 406 were in 
remission with no prior recurrence, 16 were in remission having experienced a 
relapse prior to 5 years, and 5 were alive with progressive disease.
RESULTS: For the 406 patients in remission with no prior relapse the 10 year 
progression free survival (PFS) was 96% (CI 94-98). For those aged over 1 year 
with stage 4 disease at diagnosis 10 year PFS was 88% (CI 79-96) compared to 98% 
(CI 97-99) for other patients combined, P< 0.001. In a multivariate analysis of 
all 422 patients in remission at 5 years, significant risk factors for 
subsequent relapse were age > 1 yr with stage 4 disease at diagnosis (relative 
risk 10.5, P < 0.001) and prior relapse (RR 4.2, P= 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study emphasise the importance of longterm 
follow-up of patients and the need for late monitoring of clinical trials in 
children with neuroblastoma. They also provide a baseline for comparison with 
future and hopefully more effective treatment programmes.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<235::AID-MPO1057>3.0.CO;2-N
PMID: 11464893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):24-7. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<24::AID-MPO1007>3.0.CO;2-7.

Allelic deletion at chromosome bands 11q14-23 is common in neuroblastoma.

Maris JM(1), Guo C, White PS, Hogarty MD, Thompson PM, Stram DO, Gerbing R, 
Matthay KK, Seeger RC, Brodeur GM.
