
Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104-4138, USA. maris@email.chop.edu

BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma tumorigenesis may involve the differential 
inactivation of multiple tumor suppressor genes. Recent data have suggested that 
a neuroblastoma suppressor gene may be located on the long arm of chromosome 11 
(11q).
PROCEDURE: We therefore analyzed 295 primary neuroblastomas from a 
representative group of patients for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at 25 
polymorphic markers spanning 11q.
RESULTS: LOH was observed in 129 primary neuroblastomas (44%), and a common 
region of LOH mapped to 11q14-23. No correlation was found between 11q LOH and 
adverse prognostic variables, but a strong inverse relationship between 11q LOH 
and MYCN amplification (P < 0.001) was observed. There was no difference in 
overall survival when patients were stratified by 11q LOH status. However, 11q 
LOH was associated with a decreased overall survival probability when patients 
whose tumors had a single copy of MYCN were analyzed separately (P = 0.008).
CONCLUSION: These data support the hypothesis that a tumor suppressor gene 
mapping within 11q14-23 is frequently inactivated during the malignant evolution 
of neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<24::AID-MPO1007>3.0.CO;2-7
PMID: 11464895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):247-50. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<247::AID-MPO1061>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Localised and unresectable neuroblastoma in infants: excellent outcome with 
primary chemotherapy. Neuroblastoma Study Group, Société Française d'Oncologie 
Pédiatrique.

Rubie H(1), Plantaz D, Coze C, Michon J, Frappaz D, Baranzelli MC, Chastagner P, 
Peyroulet MC, Hartmann O; Neuroblastoma Study Group, Société Française 
d'Oncologie Pédiatrique.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Hemato-Oncologie Pediatrique, Hĵpital des Enfants, Toulouse, France. 
rubie.h@chu-toulouse.fr

PROCEDURE: Infants with neuroblastoma (NB) were assessed according to INSS 
recommendations, including MIBG scan and extensive bone marrow staging to 
eliminate metastatic spread. Patients with unresectable tumour received 
chemotherapy, including two courses of carboplatin-etoposide (CE) and two of 
vincristinecyclophosphamide-doxorubicin (CAdO). Post-operative treatment was to 
be given only in infants with MYCN amplification. Between 1990 and 1994, 52 
consecutive children were registered.
RESULTS: Among the 44 patients who received CE as a first course, the response 
rate was (66%) and the primary could be removed in all children but one, who was 
in remission. The toxicity was mainly haematological and was always manageable. 
The 5 year overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) were 94 and 90 
+/- 8%, respectively, with a median follow-up of 48 months. The outcome of 
infants with no MYCN amplification was excellent; OS and EFS were, respectively, 
97 and 94%.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemotherapy allows surgical excision and excellent outcome in 
infants with localised and unresectable NB. Less intensive Chemotherapy should 
be investigated in such patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<247::AID-MPO1061>3.0.CO;2-Z
PMID: 11464897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):32-6. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<32::AID-MPO1009>3.0.CO;2-0.

Comprehensive analysis of chromosome 1p deletions in neuroblastoma.

Maris JM(1), Guo C, Blake D, White PS, Hogarty MD, Thompson PM, Rajalingam V, 
Gerbing R, Stram DO, Matthay KK, Seeger RC, Brodeur GM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104-4138, USA.

BACKGROUND: Chromosome 1p deletions are common in advanced neuroblastomas, but 
the biological and clinical implications of this clonal rearrangement remain 
controversial. Previous studies of chromosome 1p loss of heterozygosity (LOH) 
have been limited by analyses of relatively small number of tumors derived from 
heterogeneously assessed and treated patient populations. Therefore, a strictly 
representative cohort of 288 Children's Cancer Group neuroblastoma patients 
treated on the most recent phase III therapeutic trials was identified.
PROCEDURE: Primary tumors from these patients were analyzed for LOH at precisely 
mapped and highly informative 1p polymorphic loci located from 1p32 to 1p36.3 by 
multiplex PCR.
RESULTS: Ninety-three primary tumor specimens (32%) had LOH at multiple 1p36 
marker loci. All 1p deletions overlapped the previously determined smallest 
region of overlap (SRO). One tumor had a small terminal deletion completely 
within 1p36.3, allowing for further refinement of the 1p36 SRO. We found no 
evidence to support an additional, nonoverlapping region of LOH within 1p32-36. 
We confirmed the strong correlation of 1p36 LOH with MYCN amplification (P < 
0.001), advanced disease stage (P < 0.001), and decreased both 3-year event-free 
survival and overall survival probabilities (P< 0.001). When stratified for MYCN 
amplification status or entered into a multivariate analysis, 1p36 LOH remained 
predictive for decreased event-free survival, but not overall survival 
probability.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support the hypothesis that inactivation of a tumor 
suppressor gene within 1p36.3 is associated with an increased risk for disease 
relapse.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<32::AID-MPO1009>3.0.CO;2-0
PMID: 11464900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2001 Jan;36(1):83-92. doi: 
10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<83::AID-MPO1020>3.0.CO;2-9.

Prognostic significance of DNA di-tetraploidy in neuroblastoma.

Ladenstein R(1), Ambros IM, Pötschger U, Amann G, Urban C, Fink FM, Schmitt K, 
Jones R, Slociak M, Schilling F, Ritter J, Berthold F, Gadner H, Ambros PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Haemato-Oncology, St. Anna Children's Hospital, 
Vienna, Austria. ladenstein@ccri.univie.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Identification of biological factors may provide tools to 
discriminate poor risk neuroblastoma patients of diagnosis, to ultimately offer 
risk adapted treatment intensity.
PROCEDURES: Tumour cell DNA content, MYCN amplification (NMA), deletion of the 
short arm of chromosome 1 (del 1p) as well as three serological markers were 
assessed in 179 children with neuroblastoma.
RESULTS: Localised regional disease (stage 1 to 3) was diagnosed in 98 patients, 
and disseminated disease in 81 patients (65 with stage 4, 16 with stage 4s). 
Median age at diagnosis was 12 months and the median observation time 4 years. 
Sixty-seven of 179 patients had near di-tetraploid tumours (37%), with a 
significantly worse prognosis of 44% overall survival at 4 years in comparison 
with 88% in near triploid tumours (P < .001). The near di-tetraploid group 
showed a significant correlation with additional adverse biological factors 
(NMA, del 1p: P < 0.001), age over 1 year (P< 0.001), clinical stage 4 (P< 
0.001), elevated ferritin (P = 0.023), and elevated LDH (P< 0.001). Multivariate 
analysis based on the overall (OS) and event free survival (EFS) estimations 
revealed that near di-tetraploidy was the most powerful biological factor, with 
a P-value of <0.001 for EFS and OS, followed by NMA (P = 0.015) for OS and del 
1p (P= 0.047) for EFS.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis underlines the important influence of near 
di-tetraploidy on prognosis, and suggests that more efforts should be undertaken 
to implement this factor in future studies.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-911X(20010101)36:1<83::AID-MPO1020>3.0.CO;2-9
PMID: 11464912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 Jun-Jul;23(5):272-6. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200106000-00007.

Role of high-dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic stem cell rescue in the 
treatment of metastatic or recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.

Weigel BJ(1), Breitfeld PP, Hawkins D, Crist WM, Baker KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA. 
weige007@tc.umn.edu

Comment in
    J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 Jun-Jul;23(5):266-7.

PURPOSE: This review summarizes the published data on the use of high-dose 
chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell rescue (HSCR) in the treatment of 
recurrent or metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred eighty-nine patients were identified from 22 
articles selected by computer generated searching of MEDLINE (1979-present). One 
hundred seventy-seven patients had stage 4 disease and were treated during first 
complete remission (CRI). The remaining patients were treated during CR1/first 
partial remission (PR1) (110 patients), CR2/PR2 (53 patients), CR2 (12 
patients), CR3 (1 patient), or treated with disease (36 patients).
RESULTS: Patients treated during CR1 or CR1/PR1 had event-free survival (EFS) 
rates ranging from 24% to 29% at 3 to 6 years from diagnosis and overall 
survival (OS) rates ranging from 20% to 40% at 2 to 6 years after diagnosis 
according to data provided as Kaplan-Meier estimates. Studies without 
Kaplan-Meier estimates (n = 32) indicate that 12 patients (38%) with stage IV 
RMS treated during CR1 or CR1/PR1 were surviving 7 to 60 months from diagnosis, 
similar to patients with stage IV RMS treated on Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma 
Studies II or III. Patients treated during CR2, CR3, or with evidence of disease 
had a worse outcome with an estimated 3 years OS of 12% (n = 51). Studies 
without Kaplan-Meier estimates (n = 27) indicate that four patients (15%) 
treated during CR2, CR3, or with disease were surviving 17 to 33 months after 
transplant.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these data, there does not appear to be a significant 
advantage to undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with HSCR for patients with 
relapsed or refractory high-risk RMS. Clearly, there is a need for incorporating 
new treatment strategies for patients with high-risk RMS.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200106000-00007
PMID: 11464981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(5 Pt 2):565-75. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200119050-00010.

Cost effectiveness of nasal calcitonin in postmenopausal women: use of Cochrane 
Collaboration methods for meta-analysis within economic evaluation.

Coyle D(1), Cranney A, Lee KM, Welch V, Tugwell P.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Ottawa Hospital, Ontario, Canada. dcoyle@lri.ca

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of nasal calcitonin (Miacalcin) 
compared with no therapy, alendronate or etidronate in the treatment of 
postmenopausal women with previous osteoporotic fracture.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Meta-analysis followed by economic analysis.
PERSPECTIVE: A Canadian provincial Ministry of Health.
METHODS: The meta-analysis of randomised controlled clinical trials was based on 
the recommendations of the Cochrane Collaboration. Economic analysis was 
conducted within a Markov model using probabilities and costs derived from 
Canadian sources.
RESULTS: The meta-analysis found evidence of the positive effect of both nasal 
calcitonin and alendronate in reducing the risks of hip, wrist and vertebral 
fractures in postmenopausal women. However, there was a lack of evidence of the 
effect of etidronate on hip and wrist fractures. For a 65-year-old woman, with 5 
years' therapy, the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained for nasal calcitonin was 46,500 Canadian dollars ($Can) compared with no 
therapy and $Can32,600 compared with etidronate (1998 values). Comparison with 
alendronate was highly sensitive to the inclusion of one specific trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the results of the analysis, based on current evidence, nasal 
calcitonin can be considered at the margins of being cost effective when 
compared with no therapy. Compared with active therapy, nasal calcitonin can be 
considered more cost effective than etidronate, but its cost effectiveness 
versus alendronate is inconclusive.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119050-00010
PMID: 11465301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2001 Jul;386(4):272-7. doi: 10.1007/s004230100221.

Aortic valve replacement with or without concomitant coronary artery bypass 
grafting in the ninth decade of life.

Ennker J(1), Mortasawi A, Gehle S, Yaghmaie M, Schröder T, Rosendahl U, Ennker 
IC.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Surgery, Heart Institute Lahr/Baden, 77933 Lahr, Germany. 
juergen.ennker@heart-lahr.com

Due to demographic changes in average life expectancy, the age of patients 
undergoing cardiac surgery is increasing. We have reviewed the short- and 
long-term outcome after aortic valve replacement with or without concomitant 
coronary artery bypass grafting in patients over 80 years of age. From 1 January 
1995 until 30 June 1999, 114 patients (83 women and 31 men, 80-89 years of age, 
82.8+/-2.4 years) with symptomatic aortic valve disease underwent aortic valve 
replacement. Of these patients, 54% (group A) received isolated valve 
replacement and 46% (group B) underwent myocardial revascularization as well. 
The perioperative mortality rate was 4.8% for group A and 7.7% for group B. The 
30-day hospital mortality rate was 4.8% for group A and 15.4% for group B. The 
follow-up time ranged between 3 months and 63 months (32+/-15 months). None of 
the patients had to be reoperated for prosthetic valve dysfunction or 
endocarditis. Bleeding complications due to anticoagulation therapy were not 
observed. Of the 15 deaths during the follow-up period, seven (47%) were cardiac 
in nature and two (13%) were related to stroke. Actuarial survival rates for 
group A were 90%, 84%, and 76% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively, and for group 
B were 75%, 71%, and 68%. One year after the operation, permanent nursing care 
was not required by 100% of patients in group A (2 years, 98%; 3 years, 95%) and 
by 100% of patients in group B (2 years, 95%; 3 years, 91%). At a 1-year 
interval after the operation, 98% of patients in group A had not been 
hospitalized as a result of cardiac disorders (2 years, 98%; 3 years, 95%). The 
rates for group B were 90%, 85%, and 85%. Compared with younger age groups, 
aortic valve replacement in patients 80 years of age and older is associated 
with a distinctly increased mortality and morbidity. However, our data suggest 
that, considering the poor prognosis of conservative therapy of symptomatic 
aortic valve disease, functional status as well as life expectancy in this age 
group seem to be positively influenced by aortic valve replacement.

DOI: 10.1007/s004230100221
PMID: 11466569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Health Econ. 2001 Jul;10(5):429-40. doi: 10.1002/hec.633.

Live long, live well: quantifying the health of heterogeneous populations.

Mullahy J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison and NBER, 
Madison, WI 53705, USA. jmullahy@facstaff.wisc.edu

Various health, quality, utility and disability adjusted life years or life 
expectancy (HALY, QALY, DALY; HALE, QALE, DALE) measures have become gold 
standards for defining outcomes in technology evaluation, population health 
monitoring, and other evaluative efforts. As such, the analytical framework 
within which these measures are used for descriptive and evaluative purposes 
should be theoretically consistent and statistically rigorous. For instance, 
widely accepted definitions of cost-effectiveness ratios and other technology 
evaluation criteria that are based on expectations of the respective cost and 
outcome measures must, as such, be defined in terms of expected HALYs or QALYs. 
Similarly, measures like HALEs or QALEs used for population health monitoring 
are typically concerned with population expectations of such measures (or their 
corresponding totals). This paper demonstrates that estimation of such 
expectations necessitates consideration of the population variation in, and 
covariation between, quality and longevity. From the perspective of several 
different environments characterizing such heterogeneity, quantification or 
estimation of measures like QALYs is reconsidered. An empirical example of the 
central issues is provided by means of an analysis of the years of healthy life 
(YHL) measure drawn from the US National Health Interview Survey.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.633
PMID: 11466804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Duodecim. 1997;113(7):551, 553.

[Should the treatment of children be the first priority?].

[Article in Finnish]

Kekomäki M(1).

Author information:
(1)Helsinki University Central Hospital. Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    Duodecim. 1997;113(17):1687-9.

PMID: 11466881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J R Soc Promot Health. 2001 Jun;121(2):85-93. doi:
10.1177/146642400112100208.

Changes in public health in South Africa from 1876.

Walker AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, Department of Tropical Diseases, School of 
Pathology, University of the Witwatersrand, South African Institute for Medical 
Research, PO Box 1038, Johannesburg 2000, South Africa. 
alexw@mail.saimr.wits.ac.za

The present population in South Africa, roughly 43 million inhabitants, is made 
up of Africans (77.2%), whites (10.5%), Coloureds (mixed race) (8.8%) and 
Indians (2.5%). In 1900 the infant mortality rate (IMR) among Africans was 330 
per 1,000 live births; this has now fallen to 50-60. In Soweto, a primarily 
African city, IMR averages 20-25. Life expectancy in the past was only 25-30 
years; by 1995, this reached 63 years. However, this could fall again due to the 
rapidly spreading HIV/AIDS epidemic. Life expectancy could fall to 40-45 years 
by 2010 with the AIDS epidemic being the cause of half of all deaths--a 
disastrous change from the previous relatively commendable public health 
situation. Formerly, the most common causes of deaths in young people were 
infections, diseases associated with malnutrition and gastroenteritis. Adults 
died almost solely from infections, including typhoid, dysentery, malaria and 
tuberculosis (TB). Even though diseases associated with malnutrition are less 
common today, many infections still remain a major problem, particularly TB, 
which is increasing. As late as 1970, Africans who reached 50 years had longer 
life expectancy than whites due to the low prevalences of the chronic diseases 
of lifestyle. This is no longer so, due to the recent rises in non-communicable 
disorders/diseases, principally obesity in women, hypertension, diabetes, stroke 
and the cancers of prosperity. In the not so distant future, the level of 
control of HIV/AIDS related diseases will be the major health/disease regulating 
factor among Africans. Among white, Coloured and Indian populations, there have 
been falls in the mortality rates of the young and, despite rises in lifestyle 
diseases, increases in life expectancy are continuing. For all populations other 
important public health regulatory factors include water supply, sanitation, 
clinic/hospital services and personal environmental factors, employment, dietary 
pattern and intake, smoking practices and alcohol consumption and physical 
activity, particularly in urban dwellers. Unfortunately, public health 
expenditure, also a highly regulating factor, has fallen from 8.2% of the gross 
domestic product in 1994 to 4.1% in 2000.

DOI: 10.1177/146642400112100208
PMID: 11467213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Blood. 2001 Aug 1;98(3):597-603. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.3.597.

Transfer of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) gene into T 
lymphocytes results in extension of replicative potential.

Rufer N(1), Migliaccio M, Antonchuk J, Humphries RK, Roosnek E, Lansdorp PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology and Allergology, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland. nathalie.rufer@chuv.hospvd.ch

In most human somatic cells telomeres progressively shorten with each cell 
division eventually leading to chromosomal instability and cell senescence. The 
loss of telomere repeats with cell divisions may also limit the replicative life 
span of antigen-specific T lymphocytes. Recent studies have shown that the 
replicative life span of various primary human cells can be prolonged by induced 
expression of the telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene. To test whether 
introduction of hTERT can extend the life span of primary human T lymphocytes, 
naive CD8(+) T lymphocytes were transfected with retroviral vectors containing 
the hTERT gene. Transduced T-cell clones expressed high levels of telomerase and 
either maintained or elongated their telomere lengths upon culture for extended 
periods of time. Two of the transduced subclones retained a normal cloning 
efficiency for more than 170 population doublings (PDs). In contrast, T-cell 
clones transfected with control vectors exhibited progressive telomere length 
shortening and stopped proliferation at around 108 PDs. Telomerase-positive T 
clones had a normal 46,XY karyotype, maintained their cytotoxic properties, and 
showed very little staining for the apoptotic marker annexin-V. These results 
indicate that ectopic hTERT gene expression is capable of extending the 
replicative life span of primary human CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes. (Blood. 
2001;98:597-603)

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.3.597
PMID: 11468156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Trauma. 2001 Jul;51(1):77-83. doi: 10.1097/00005373-200107000-00012.

The standard Gamma nail: a critical analysis of 1,000 cases.

Kukla C(1), Heinz T, Gaebler C, Heinze G, Vécsei V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatology, University of Vienna Medical School, Vienna, 
Austria. dokh-kukla@eunet.at

BACKGROUND: The continuous increase in the number of fractures of the proximal 
femur is directly attributable to the worldwide increase in life expectancy. The 
standard version of the Gamma Interlocking-Nail (standard Gamma nail [SGN], 
200-mm length, 10-degree valgus curvature, two distal locking bolts) was 
designed because of the demands in orthopedic hip surgery to develop an implant 
stable enough to mobilize old patients as soon as possible to avoid further 
morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: Between the years 1992 and 1998, 1,000 consecutive patients with 
peritrochanteric fractures were stabilized by using the SGN and included in this 
study. Special emphasis was given to the evaluation of the learning curve of the 
department of traumatology (not of single surgeons) and the influence of 
prognostic factors on the outcome of such operations.
RESULTS: The results of this study show that increasing "department experience" 
resulted in a reduction of the intraoperative complication rate by a factor of 
0.5 (p = 0.0001) per year. This means that even an inhomogeneous mass of 78 
surgeons can lower the rate of intraoperative complications by 50% per year 
because of increased experience. The number of early postoperative complications 
annually decreased by a factor of 0.8 (p = 0.0042).
CONCLUSION: Late postoperative complications correlate negatively with the 
patient's age (odds ratio, 0.9; p = 0.0001).

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-200107000-00012
PMID: 11468471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Med Care. 2001 Aug;39(8):824-35. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200108000-00008.

Assessing the clinical and economic burden of coronary artery disease: 
1986-1998.

Eisenstein EL(1), Shaw LK, Anstrom KJ, Nelson CL, Hakim Z, Hasselblad V, Mark 
DB.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research and Assessment Group, The Duke Clincal Research Institute, 
Durham, NC, USA. eisen006@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: The acute phase of coronary artery disease (CAD) is dramatic and 
receives much attention because of its high mortality and associated treatment 
cost. However, the acute phase typically resolves within 30 days whereas CAD is 
a chronic disease, which most patients will live with for more than a decade. We 
compared the clinical and economic burden of CAD during the acute phase (first 
30 days) with that in the postacute phase (31st day through 10 years).
METHODS: We included acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients with significant CAD 
receiving an initial cardiac catheterization at Duke University Medical Center 
between 1986 and 1997 with follow-up continuing through 1998. Inpatient medical 
costs were estimated from ACS clinical trial and economic study data. Costs were 
adjusted to 1997 values and discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Our study included 9,876 ACS patients (5,557 with an acute myocardial 
infarction [MI] and 4,319 with unstable angina [UA]). Acute MI patients had 
higher 30-day mortality than UA patients (5.6% vs. 2.3%, P <0.001). In addition, 
acute MI and UA patients had significant 10-year unadjusted and adjusted 
survival differences (both P <0.001). For patients who survived to 30 days, 
there was no difference in 10-year survival between acute MI and UA patients 
before adjustment (P = 0.472). After adjustment, however, unstable angina 
patients who survived to 30 days had greater survival than myocardial infarction 
patients (P = 0.011). Mean 10-year discounted ACS inpatient medical costs were 
$45,253 ($23,510 acute phase and $21,819 postacute phase, P = 0.002). Ten year 
costs for unstable angina patients were $46,423 ($21,824 acute phase and $24,599 
postacute phase, P = 0.003); ten year costs for myocardial infarction patients 
were $44,663 ($24,823 acute phase and $19,840 postacute phase, P <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that the clinical and economic burden of CAD continues 
long after a patient's acute event has resolved and that postacute CAD cardiac 
event rates and inpatient medical costs may be higher than previously estimated. 
With much of all medical costs occurring in the postacute phase, the potential 
for effective secondary prevention therapies is substantial.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200108000-00008
PMID: 11468501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Rev Prat. 2001 May 31;51(10):1061-5.

[Chronic respiratory insufficiency in France].

[Article in French]

Chailleux E(1), Boffa C.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie Hôpital Guillaume-et-René-Laennec 44093 Nantes. 
edmond.chailleux@chu-nantes.fr

The data concerning the prevalence of chronic respiratory insufficiency (CRI) in 
France are scarce: in 1994 official numbers were 14,000 deaths due to chronic 
bronchitis, 2,000 due to asthma for a total number of 40,000 deaths with 
respiratory cause; the same year 27,000 new patients were compensated for 
chronic respiratory insufficiency by social security services. On January 1st 
2000 the non-profit organizations was in charge of 21,500 patients with long 
term oxygen therapy and 10,500 with home ventilation, and the commercial 
companies respectively 30,000 and 6,000. Accordingly the total of patients 
treated at home for CRI is about 68,000. The repartition by cause of CRI, the 
characteristics of patients and the prognosis can be evaluated thanks to the 
ANTADIR observatory which collects medical data since 1981. Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary diseases (chronic bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, bronchiectasis) count 
for more than half of the total of cases. Other causes comprise pleuro-parietal 
diseases (tuberculosis sequelae, kyphoscoliosis), neuro-muscular diseases and 
interstitial lung diseases. CRI is a severe disease with a survival median of 
three years for chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, and a prognosis slightly 
better for kyphoscoliosis and neuro-muscular diseases, and worse for pulmonary 
fibrosis.

PMID: 11468903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Rev Prat. 2001 May 31;51(10):1101-4.

[Chronic respiratory insufficiency in the child].

[Article in French]

Fauroux B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie pédiatrique Hôpital d'enfants Armand-Trousseau 75012 
Paris. brigitte.fauroux@trs.ap-hop-paris.fr

Chronic respiratory insufficiency in childhood can be caused by a heterogeneous 
group of diseases whose management and prognosis differ. Bronchopulmonary 
dysplasia in infants, and cystic fibrosis and neuromuscular diseases in older 
children, represent the most common causes of chronic respiratory insufficiency. 
The improvements in medical treatments, with the development of long term oxygen 
therapy and non invasive mechanical ventilation, have contributed to the 
increased survival and the better quality of life of these children. An 
objective evaluation of treatments, such as long term oxygen therapy and non 
invasive mechanical ventilation, are warranted to improve the indications and 
benefits of these therapies.

PMID: 11468909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2001 Jun;40(3):156-64. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-14722.

[Mobility outcome after knee prosthesis implantation and subsequent physical 
therapy--factors influencing rate of success].

[Article in German]

Gehrke W(1), Arnold W.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Orthopädie, Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Klinikum 
Suhl.

Osteoarthritis of the knee is considered to be the most common degenerative 
joint disease and finally ends up in a total knee replacement. Pain relief, 
restoration of a passive knee stability and improvement of functional ability 
are the primary goals of arthroplasties. But at the surgeons' closing, the 
patient for the present has just a knee "ready to function". Making the new 
joint function and recovering quality of life are the major outcome criteria for 
the rehabilitation process. This retrospective research was performed to 
evaluate three different rehabilitation programmes provided for patients 
receiving knee arthroplasties. Included were 124 patients with unilateral knee 
arthroplasty due to primary gonarthritis. All three rehabilitation clinics were 
able to improve the functional ability of the affected joints significantly, 
without any quantitative differences among them. The main influence factor in 
reaching the therapy aim (defined as: full extension and flexion > or = 90 
degrees) seems to be the length of stay in the rehab clinic, which in turn is 
dependent on the presence of complications. On the other hand complications did 
not directly affect the achievement of the rehab goal, neither did age of 
patients, number of days between discharge (from acute care) and admission (to 
the rehab clinic), nor any accompanying illnesses. There, hence, have to be 
additional factors which influence the length of stay and so indirectly the 
rehab aim, factors which obviously are not accessible to quantitative objective 
measuring methods.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-14722
PMID: 11469050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Rheumatol. 2001 Jul;28(7):1655-65.

The efficacy of home based progressive strength training in older adults with 
knee osteoarthritis: a randomized controlled trial.

Baker KR(1), Nelson ME, Felson DT, Layne JE, Sarno R, Roubenoff R.

Author information:
(1)Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, 
Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To test the effects of a high intensity home-based progressive 
strength training program on the clinical signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis 
(OA) of the knee.
METHODS: Forty-six community dwelling patients, aged 55 years or older with knee 
pain and radiographic evidence of knee OA, were randomized to a 4 month home 
based progressive strength training program or a nutrition education program 
(attention control). Thirty-eight patients completed the trial with an adherence 
of 84% to the intervention and 65% to the attention control. The primary outcome 
was the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (WOMAC) index 
pain and physical function subscales. Secondary outcomes included clinical knee 
examination, muscle strength, physical performance measures, and questionnaires 
to measure quality of life variables.
RESULTS: Patients in the strength training group who completed the trial had a 
71% improvement in knee extension strength in the leg reported as most painful 
versus a 3% improvement in the control group (p < 0.01). In a modified intent to 
treat analysis, self-reported pain improved by 36% and physical function by 38% 
in the strength training group versus 11 and 21%, respectively, in the control 
group (p = 0.01 for between group comparison). In addition, those patients in 
the strength training group who completed the trial had a 43% mean reduction in 
pain (p = 0.01 vs controls), a 44% mean improvement in self-reported physical 
function (p < 0.01 vs controls), and improvements in physical performance, 
quality of life, and self-efficacy when compared to the control group.
CONCLUSION: High intensity, home based strength training can produce substantial 
improvements in strength, pain, physical function and quality of life in 
patients with knee OA.

PMID: 11469475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Surg Res. 2001 Aug;99(2):161-8. doi: 10.1006/jsre.2001.6084.

Can expression of apoptosis genes, bcl-2 and bax, predict survival and 
responsiveness to chemotherapy in node-negative breast cancer patients?

Kymionis GD(1), Dimitrakakis CE, Konstadoulakis MM, Arzimanoglou I, Leandros E, 
Chalkiadakis G, Keramopoulos A, Michalas S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Surgical Research, Hippokratio Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
kymionis@med.uoc.gr

BACKGROUND: Although the status of the axillary lymph nodes is widely accepted 
to be associated with prognosis in breast cancer patients, there is a need for 
biomarkers to be analyzed as indicators of responsiveness to treatment. The 
objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that the expression of 
apoptosis genes, bcl-2 and bax, predicts survival and responsiveness to 
chemotherapy in node-negative breast cancer patients.
METHODS: One hundred thirty premenopausal women with primary breast carcinoma 
were studied for the expression of bcl-2 and bax genes. The relationship between 
the expression of bcl-2 and bax proteins and a series of markers of known 
prognostic value [such as tumor size, nuclear grade, receptors of the steroid 
hormones estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PgR)]. The association of these 
proteins with survival and responsiveness to chemotherapy was also examined.
RESULTS: Sixty (46%) and sixty-four (49%) breast cancer cases were found 
positive for bcl-2 and bax, respectively, as indicated by immunohistochemistry. 
A statistically significant association was found between expression of bcl-2 
and tumor size (P = 0.001), low grade (grade I) (P = 0.002), positivity of ER (P 
= 0.001), positivity of PR (P = 0.03), and superior disease-free survival (DFS) 
(P = 0.04), and superior overall survival (OS) (P = 0.03). In contrast, no 
similar associations were observed for the bax gene. Overall, there was a trend 
toward an association between adjuvant chemotherapy and DFS (P = 0.08) and OS (P 
= 0.07). This trend became statistically significant when the patients were 
analyzed by individual gene expression. In bax-positive patients, chemotherapy 
improves 6-year DFS (P = 0.01) and OS (P = 0.03) while similar effects were not 
observed in the other subgroups of patients.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that bcl-2 expression is associated with a 
number of favorable prognostic factors and better clinical outcome, while bax 
expression seems to have positive predictive value for responsiveness to 
chemotherapy in lymph node-negative breast cancer patients.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.2001.6084
PMID: 11469882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Rev Esp Med Nucl. 2001 Aug;20(5):358-64. doi: 10.1016/s0212-6982(01)71974-x.

[Preoperative serum levels of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and prognosis 
in colorectal cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Allende T(1), García Muñiz JL, Vizoso F, Del Casar JM, Raigoso P, Llana B, Serra 
C, Zeidán N, García-Morán M, Roiz C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Nuclear II, Hospital Central de Asturias, Oviedo. 
tallende@hca.es

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the prognostic value of the preoperative serum levels of 
the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in primary colorectal carcinoma.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Preoperative serum levels of CEA were analyzed in 275 
colorectal cancer patients, who were followed up for a minimum of 5 years, or 
until death.
RESULTS: The percentage of positivities for the preoperative serum levels of CEA 
(> 6 ng/ml) was positively and significantly associated with the tumoral stage 
(A: 10,5%; B: 38,8%; C: 32,2%; y D: 72%; p < 0,0001). In addition, the elevated 
serum values of the antigen were significantly associated, in the univariate 
analysis, with short survival in the overall group of patients (p < 0,0001). 
However, the multivariate analysis only showed an independent prognosis value of 
the CEA in the subgroup of patients with stage C tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative serum levels of CEA may be useful to predict tumoral 
extension, and also for the prognosis regarding stage C colorectal cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0212-6982(01)71974-x
PMID: 11470069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Aug;54(8):830-6. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00348-1.

Detecting the effect of medical care on mortality.

Catalano R(1), Frank J.

Author information:
(1)320 Warren Hall, School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, 
CA 94720, USA. rayc@uclink4.Berkeley.edu

OBJECTIVES: To demonstrate an important limitation of empirical tests of the 
proposition that medical care has contributed to long-term declines in 
mortality. Quasi-experiments cannot detect the effect of care that sustain, 
rather than change, a downward trajectory. We demonstrate this limitation by 
testing two hypotheses. One is that isolation of patients and antibiotic 
treatment coincided with declines in tuberculosis (TB) mortality in 
Massachusetts between 1850 and 1950. Another is that the introduction of 
Medicare in the 1960s increased life expectancy at age 65.
RESULTS: The first hypothesis is supported, for both patient isolation and 
streptomycin. The second is not. The circumstances that could yield such results 
are explored.
CONCLUSIONS: Epidemiologists and historians should cooperate to devise methods 
that can resolve the issue of whether medical care has sustained the steady 
downward trend in mortality witnessed over the last century-and-a-half.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00348-1
PMID: 11470393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nefrologia. 2001 May-Jun;21(3):260-73.

[Analysis of the survival of permanent vascular access ports].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez JA(1), Ferrer E, Olmos A, Codina S, Borrellas J, Piera L.

Author information:
(1)Hospital General Universitario Vall d'Hebrón, Servicio de Nefrología, 
Barcelona.

Complications arising from vascular access are major causes of morbidity in 
patients on renal replacement therapy. They contribute to frustration of health 
care providers and to high medical cost. To prevent failures in the future it 
will be helpful to identify the factors that are related to vascular access, 
malfunction. In a retrospective analysis we analysed the types, duration and 
primary patency rate of 1,033 permanent vascular access in 544 consecutive 
patients established during a 13-year period in a tertiary care hospital. 
Patient characteristics, incidence and risk factors related to vascular access 
failure were registered. In addition vascular access outcomes in patients who 
started haemodialysis with a catheter and in whom initial vascular access 
failure occurred were analysed separately. Forty-five per cent of patients 
required a central catheter at the start of HD, but 92% of them were being 
dialysed with an a-v fistula at the last observation. The total number of 
complications was 0.24 episodes per patient per year at risk, and the rate of 
thrombosis 0.1. A total of 52% of patients were dialysed throughout the 
observation period with their initial a-v fistula; 9.3% had more than three 
episodes of vascular access failure. The radiocephalic a-v fistula was the 
access with the best median duration, exceeding 7 years, but also the type that 
had the highest initial failure rate, i.e. 25% of patients and 13% of events. 
The brachiocephalic a-v fistula was the second most frequent type of vascular 
access, with a median duration of function of 3.6 years, in contrast the 
humerobasilar a-v fistula, lasted on average over 5 years. Average patency of 
the different types of grafts did not exceed 1 year, with the exception of the 
autologous saphenous graft with a median duration of function of 1.4 years. 
Patients with glomerulonephritis had the best function rates for their access, 
the median duration exceeding the duration of the study, whereas in half of 
diabetic patients it was less than 1 year. The duration of patency of the 
vascular access was twice as long in patients below age 65 years and in elderly 
males compared to elderly females. Patients who start HD with a catheter, as 
well as those with initial vascular access failure, have a higher rate of access 
failure in the subsequent course on renal replacement therapy. In conclusion, 
the radiocephalic and the brachiocephalic a-v fistula are the two types of 
vascular access with the longest duration of function, although a high rate of 
initial failure is seen with the radiocephalic a-v fistula. Age, female gender, 
presence of diabetic nephropathy, start of dialysis with a catheter, and failure 
to wait for initial maturation of vascular access are risk factors, and account 
for the majority of vascular access failure during renal replacement therapy.

PMID: 11471307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nefrologia. 2001 May-Jun;21(3):274-82.

[Predictors of early death during dialysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Caravaca F(1), Arrobas M, Pizarro JL, Cancho B, Cubero JJ, Espárrago JF, García 
MC, Sánchez-Casado E.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Infanta Cristina, 06080 Badajoz. 
fcaravacam@senefro.org

The mortality among end-stage renal failure (ESRF) patients undergoing renal 
replacement therapy (RRT) remains high. An important proportion of these 
patients die shortly after the initiation of RRT. The present study aims to 
determine the best predictors for the early mortality in a group of 140 ESRF 
patients who initiated RRT between october 96 and december 99. The mean age of 
the study group was 61 +/- 13 years, and the mean follow-up time was 20 +/- 12 
months. Diabetic nephropathy was the most prevalent etiology of renal failure 
(30%). The following data, collected immediately before the initiation of RRT, 
were included as independent variables: demographic and clinical 
characteristics, including the nutritional status established by the Subjective 
Global Assessment (SGA), follow-up time in the predialysis clinic (less or 
longer than 3 months), EPO therapy, vascular access, renal function (creatinine 
and urea clearances, and Kt/V urea), hematological and biochemical data 
including serum albumin, bicarbonate, transferrin, PTH and C-Reactive protein, 
as well as the protein catabolic rate and the percent of lean body mass 
normalized for ideal body weight, calculated from the 24 h total urine excretion 
of nitrogen and creatinine. The Cox proportional hazard regression model, 
stratified for an age over or less than 65 year, was utilized to determine the 
best predictors for the mortality during the study period. Sixty percent of 
patients had at least one comorbid condition, and 35% had cardiovascular 
diseases. Mild-moderate or severe malnutrition was observed in 48% of patients. 
The creatinine clearance and Kt/V urea before the initiation of RRT were: 9.50 
+/- 2.64 ml/min/1.73 m2 and 1.47 +/- 0.44, respectively. Forty-one patients died 
during the study period (annual death rate: 17%). The best predictor of 
mortality was the nutritional status assessed by the SGA (OR: 2.32, IC 95% 
1.54-3.48, p < 0.0001). In a second analysis in which the SGA was removed from 
the model, the previous history of cardiovascular diseases (OR: 2.07, CI 95%: 
1.06-4.06, p = 0.032), and the percent of lean body mass/ideal weight (OR: 0.96; 
IC 95%: 0.93-0.99; p = 0.042), proved to be the best predictor of mortality. In 
conclusion, nutritional indices prior to the initiation of RRT, and the previous 
history of cardiovascular diseases were the best predictors of the early 
mortality in this unselected population on dialysis. Because nutritional status 
appeared to be a marker of the severity of the comorbid conditions, a better 
control of the number and severity of these comorbid conditions may be the best 
way for reducing the mortality in patients on RRT.

PMID: 11471308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Therapie. 2001 Mar-Apr;56(2):119-24.

[Prevention in cardiovascular pathology].

[Article in French]

Chamontin B(1), Amar J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne et d'Hypertension Artérielle, Pavillon Turiaf, 
Place du Docteur Baylac, 31059 Toulouse, France.

National and international recommendations on the management of arterial 
hypertension and hypercholesterolemia suggest a treatment decision based on the 
evaluation of absolute cardiovascular risk. In order to evaluate the 
cardiovascular risk level, Anderson's equation (Framingham) has been proposed 
but does not apply to the French population. In medical practice, cardiovascular 
risk has to be appreciated according to the estimated cardiovascular risk of the 
country or area. The limits of a decision based on cardiovascular risk have been 
emphasized, particularly the balance age/life expectancy in respect of early 
prevention of atherosclerosis. However, the benefit of treatment of hypertension 
with beta-blockers, diuretics and recently ACE inhibitors and calcium 
antagonists or hypercholesterolemia with statins has been clearly stated--the 
higher the cardiovascular risk the higher the benefit. Secondary prevention in 
patients with major cardiovascular events is effective and necessary. The 
discussion concerns only primary prevention and from an economic point of view 
may concern patients at high cardiovascular risk. The general population have to 
be informed on cardiovascular risk factors, and patient education must be 
encouraged and developed via the healthcare network.

PMID: 11471362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Therapie. 2001 Mar-Apr;56(2):89-91.

[Introduction to pharmaco-economics: 'glossary'].

[Article in French]

Auray JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'économie de la santé Université Claude Bernard 69622 
Villeurbanne.

PMID: 11471379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2001 Aug;22(2):124-9. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1431.

Lipoprotein (a) level and mortality in patients with critical lower limb 
ischaemia.

Cheng SW(1), Ting AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Medical Centre, Hong Kong, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: to investigate if serum lipoprotein (a) level is a predictor of 
survival in patients with lower limb atherosclerotic occlusive disease.
DESIGN: prospective follow up study.
METHODS: demographic, biochemical and disease variables were collected 
prospectively in 441 patients with lower limb arterial occlusive disease. 
Survival data were obtained at a mean follow up of 44 months, and significant 
risk factors identified by the life table method and multivariate Cox regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: the cumulative survival for all patients at three and five years was 
79% and 63%. Lipoprotein (a) level was the only significant independent 
biochemical predictor for all deaths and cardiorespiratory deaths on 
multivariate analysis, along with age, diabetes mellitus, renal impairment, 
cardiac diseases and major amputation. An elevated Lipoprotein(a) level of >24 
mg/dl incurred a 107% and 45% increase in mortality at three and five years 
respectively. The higher mortality associated with elevated Lipoprotein (a) was 
particularly evident in patients with critical ischemia, in whom three and five 
year survival was reduced from 85% to 63% and 67% to 53% (p=0.0064). In 
claudicants a survival discrepancy was manifested only after five years (73% vs 
62%), and the overall association did not reach statistic significance (p=0.52).
CONCLUSIONS: lipoprotein (a) level is a reliable biochemical marker for survival 
in patients with critical ischemia where traditional atherosclerosis risk 
factors were prevalent.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Limited.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1431
PMID: 11472044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Diabet Med. 2001 Jun;18(6):438-44. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2001.00485.x.

An economic evaluation of atenolol vs. captopril in patients with Type 2 
diabetes (UKPDS 54).

Gray A(1), Clarke P, Raikou M, Adler A, Stevens R, Neil A, Cull C, Stratton I, 
Holman R; UKPDS Group.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Institute of Health Sciences, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK. 
alastair.gray@ihs.ox.ac.uk

AIMS: To compare the net cost of a tight blood pressure control policy with an 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) or beta blocker (atenolol) 
in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis based on outcomes and resources used in a 
randomized controlled trial and assumptions regarding the use of these therapies 
in a general practice setting.
SETTING: Twenty United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Hospital-based clinics 
in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
SUBJECTS: Hypertensive patients (n = 758) with Type 2 diabetes (mean age 56 
years, mean blood pressure 159/94 mmHg), 400 of whom were allocated to the 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril and 358 to the beta blocker 
atenolol.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and mean cost per patient.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference in life expectancy 
between groups. The cost per patient over the trial period was 6485 UK pounds in 
the captopril group, compared with 5550 UK pounds in the atenolol group, an 
average cost difference of 935 UK pounds (95% confidence interval 188 UK pounds, 
1682 UK pounds). This 14% reduction arose partly because of lower drug prices, 
and also because of significantly fewer and shorter hospitalizations in the 
atenolol group, and despite higher antidiabetic drug costs in the atenolol 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of hypertensive patients with Type 2 diabetes using 
atenolol or captopril was equally effective. However, total costs were 
significantly lower in the atenolol group. Diabet. Med. 18, 438-444 (2001)

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2001.00485.x
PMID: 11472461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2001;3(2):97-106. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00237.x.

Preliminary report of immediately loaded Altiva Natural Tooth Replacement dental 
implants.

Buchs AU(1), Levine L, Moy P.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: Osseointegration may be described as a direct contact between living 
bone and an alloplastic implant. It is thought that a period of undisturbed 
healing is required to ensure osseointegration. The length of the healing period 
is dependent on a number of factors, such as implant material, surface 
configuration, site preparation technique, bone quality, healing capacity of the 
osteotomy, and implant design. Elimination of the healing period offers distinct 
advantages in terms of cost of therapy and convenience to patients. Recently, a 
new one-piece implant design was proposed that provides improved stability of 
the implant to allow immediate support of an interim prosthesis.
PURPOSE: This article presents the initial clinical experiences when the Altiva 
Natural Tooth Replacement one-piece implant was used in a human clinical trial.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective multicenter study of the placement 
and immediate loading of the one-piece implant. A total of 142 implants were 
placed in the jaws of 93 patients. Implants were placed consecutively and were 
followed at specified intervals in three private clinical practices. Clinical 
performance was recorded relative to implant survival and prosthesis support.
RESULTS: The implant survival rate was 93.7%, with similar responses in the 
maxilla (95.0%) and the mandible (92.7%). When implant failure occurred, it was 
observed as mobility without infection within 3 to 5 weeks of implant insertion.
