CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of this trial, there is promising evidence that this 
implant design can succeed at rates similar to other designs that require 
conventional healing times.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00237.x
PMID: 11472656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Oncology. 2001;61(1):10-5. doi: 10.1159/000055346.

Renal vein and vena cava involvement does not affect prognosis in patients with 
renal cell carcinoma.

Ficarra V(1), Righetti R, D'Amico A, Rubilotta E, Novella G, Malossini G, 
Mobilio G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Verona, Italy. 
vincenzoficarra@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: The prognostic value of tumor extension into the renal vein or vena 
cava is still a controversial issue. The aim of this study is to report our 
experience with radical surgery in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
extending into the renal vein or subdiaphragmatic vena cava.
METHODS: We evaluated 142 patients with RCC involving the renal vein or inferior 
subdiaphragmatic vena cava. RCC had extended into the renal vein in 118 patients 
and into the inferior vena cava in the remaining 24. Radical nephrectomy was 
performed in all cases with renal vein invasion. Radical nephrectomy with 
cavotomy and tumor thrombus removal was carried out in all cases with inferior 
subdiaphragmatic vena caval invasion. Cause-specific survival was calculated by 
means of the Kaplan-Meier method. The log rank test was used for survival 
comparisons and univariate analysis.
RESULTS: The 5- and 10-year cause-specific survival rates were 51.5 and 39%, 
respectively, in the group of patients with tumor extension into the renal vein 
and 33.4% in those with inferior vena caval involvement. In 52 patients (44%), 
RCC extended only into the renal vein. In the remaining 66 patients, renal vein 
invasion was associated with other adverse prognostic factors. Life expectancy 
was lower for patients with other concurrent adverse prognostic factors than for 
those affected by renal vein involvement alone (p < 0.0001). In the latter 
group, survival expectancy was similar to those with stage T2N0M0 tumor. In 7 
cases (29%), inferior vena caval invasion was not associated with other adverse 
prognostic factors. In the remaining 15 patients (71%), vena caval involvement 
was associated with other adverse prognostic factors. Concurrence of other 
adverse prognostic factors with vena caval invasion significantly decreased the 
disease-specific survival expectancy in comparison with the patients in whom 
vena caval involvement was the main prognostic factor (p = 0.008). In these 
patients, disease-specific survival was similar to those with stage T2N0M0 
tumor.
CONCLUSION: Renal vein or inferior subdiaphragmatic vena caval involvement does 
not significantly affect prognosis in patients with RCC.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000055346
PMID: 11474242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 Jul;13(7):819-23. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200107000-00010.

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy: complications and suggestions to avoid 
them.

Schurink CA(1), Tuynman H, Scholten P, Arjaans W, Klinkenberg-Knol EC, Meuwissen 
SG, Kuipers EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tubes have become an 
excellent alternative for the long-term management of patients with proximal 
obstructions of the gastrointestinal tract. However, their use has limitations 
and can be associated with serious complications. We therefore studied the 
frequency and severity of complications related to the use of PEG tubes in our 
clinic.
DESIGN: All adults (aged 18 years and above) in whom a PEG tube was placed 
between January 1 1994 and January 1 1999 at the Free University Hospital in 
Amsterdam were included in this study. In initial cases, the indication and 
procedure were individually judged according to a liberal protocol. However, 
after several major complications, a strict procedure protocol was implemented 
in September 1996.
RESULTS: During the study period, 263 PEG tubes were placed in 254 patients with 
head and neck cancer (n = 183; 70%), neurological disorders (n = 52; 20%) or 
severe upper gastrointestinal motility disorders (n = 28; 11%). In period I, 167 
PEG tubes were placed and in period II, 96 PEG tubes were inserted. Patients 
were followed for a median 111 days. Minor complications occurred in 13% of the 
patients. Major complications occurred in 8% of the patients. In period I, the 
percentage of major complications was higher than in period II (9.5% versus 6%).
CONCLUSION: PEG tube placement is a safe procedure when performed according to 
strict guidelines. By doing so, PEG tubes allow optimal feeding for prolonged 
periods with the occasional need for replacement of the tube. PEG tubes should 
not be introduced in acutely ill patients, patients with a short life expectancy 
and preferably not to patients with severe coughing.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200107000-00010
PMID: 11474312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Z Gastroenterol. 2001 Jun;39(6):475-81. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-15724.

[Measuring quality of life in gastroenterology--concepts, instruments and 
problems].

[Article in German]

Häuser W(1), Grandt D.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I (Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie, Stoffwechsel- und 
Infektionskrankheiten, Funktionsbereich Psychosomatik), Klinikum Saarbrücken. 
w.haeuser@klinikum-saarbruecken.de

Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is becoming an increasingly more 
important primary or secondary end point of clinical studies. Patients and their 
self help organizations demand a greater regard to their subjective experience 
of their disease and its treatment. Cost-effectiveness analyses measuring 
quality-adjusted life years are becoming more and more decisive in health 
politics. Therefore it is important for gastroenterologists to know the concepts 
and methods of HRQOL-measurement. The present article discusses the definitions 
of (health-related) quality of life and reviews generic- and disease-specific 
quality of life instruments in gastroenterology including quality criteria. 
Rules for the adaptation of Anglo-American questionnaires into German-speaking 
countries are pointed out. Finally the limitations of the concepts of HRQUOL and 
its measurement are discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-15724
PMID: 11475004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 2001 May;94(2):90-1.

[Treatment of major sickle cell syndromes. The point of view of the internist].

[Article in French]

Godeau B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne 1, Hôpital Henri Mondor, 51 avenue de Lattre de 
Tassigny, 94000 Créteil, France. bertrand.godeau@hmn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Major sickle cell syndromes constitute at present the most important risk of 
genetic disease in the wider Paris area. Sickle cell patients are exposed to 
vaso-occlusive attacks and to chronic visceral complications of ischemic origin 
capable of affecting all organs. Acute vaso-occlusive complications represent 
the first cause of hospitalisation and the main cause of death for the adult 
patient. Functional asplenia also occurs with a risk of infection through 
encapsuled germs. The risk of infection must always be taken into account by 
clinicians treating adults even if serious infectious accidents are less 
frequent in adults than in children. Sickle cell disease is a public health 
problem. Better knowledge of acute vaso-occlusive complications and ways of 
treating them rapidly by simple symptomatic measures mean that the mortality 
rate and the risk of serious functional sequelae can be decreased. Such measures 
allow sickle cell patients to enjoy a life expectancy beyond 50 years.

PMID: 11475034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Med Decis Making. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):278-87. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100403.

Revising a priority list based on cost-effectiveness: the role of the prominence 
effect and distorted utility judgments.

Baron J(1), Ubel PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 
19104-6196, USA. baron@psych.upenn.edu

BACKGROUND: People sometimes object to the results of cost-effectiveness 
analysis when the analysis produces a ranking of options based on both cost and 
benefit. We suggest 2 new reasons for these objections: the prominence effect, 
in which people attend mostly to a more prominent attrbute (benefit as opposed 
to cost), and distortion of utility judgments.
METHOD: We simulated the production of a cost-effectiveness ranking list in 3 
experiments using questionnaires on the World Wide Web. Subjects rated the 
utility of 16 health benefits using either rating scale or person trade-off 
elicitation methods. In some experiments, subjects were asked to rate the 
utility of the health benefits with attention also to the cost of achieving the 
benefits. In all experiments, at the end, subjects were shown a priority list 
based on their own utility judgments and were asked whether they wanted to move 
any of the health benefits up or down the list.
RESULTS: In all experiments, subjects wanted to give higher priority to 
treatments with higher benefit, even when they also had higher cost. They thus 
wanted to give less weight to high cost (which would, by itself, lead to lower 
ranking) and more weight to benefit than the weight implied by their own prior 
judgments. The desire for revision was reduced when subjects made their utility 
judgments after indicating whether the utility was above or below the midpoint 
of the scale (a manipulation previously found to reduce distortion).
CONCLUSION: The desire to change cost-effectiveness rankings is in part a 
preference reversal phenomenon that occurs because people attend mainly to the 
benefit of health interventions as opposed to cost, when they examine the 
ranking. People should be wary of tinkering with priority lists by examining the 
lists themselves.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100403
PMID: 11475384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Med Decis Making. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):288-94. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100404.

An off-the-shelf help list: a comprehensive catalog of preference scores from 
published cost-utility analyses.

Bell CM(1), Chapman RH, Stone PW, Sandberg EA, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Harvard Center for 
Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine recommends an 
organized collection of preference measure values for health states that can be 
used in costutility analyses (CUAs). The authors sought to construct a catalog 
of preference scores from published CUAs, organize the catalog by clinical 
categories, and identify methods of preference score assessment.
METHOD: The authors systematically searched Medline and other databases to 
identify original CUAs published through 1997. Information was abstracted on the 
health state descriptions, corresponding preference scores, method of preference 
score elicitation, and the source of the estimate.
RESULTS: Two hundred twenty-eight CUAs were appraised. The authors found 949 
health states and corresponding preference scores. Most frequently, health 
states pertained to the circulatory system (21.7%), health states were valued by 
experts (35.8%), and values were derived through community-based preference 
scores (23.5%).
CONCLUSION: A catalog of preference scores for health states can be constructed. 
The catalog (http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/organizations/hcra/cuadatabase/ 
intro.html) may provide a useful reference tool for producers and consumers of 
CUAs but also underscores the methodologic variation and inconsistencies present 
in the field.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100404
PMID: 11475385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Med Decis Making. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):295-306. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100405.

Stability of patients' preferences for chemotherapy: the impact of experience.

Jansen SJ(1), Kievit J, Nooij MA, Stiggelbout AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands. S.J.T.Jansen.bsl@LUMC.nl

BACKGROUND: Studies have shown that utilities for a particular treatment, 
elicited by means of a hypothetical treatment scenario, may remain stable within 
the same patients when examined before, during, and after experiencing that 
treatment (within-group stability). However, other studies have found that 
utilities for a particular health state may differ between patient groups who 
are and who are not experiencing the particular health state (between-group 
differences).
OBJECTIVE: The authors evaluated this apparent contradiction in the case of 
adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer. A related purpose was to examine 
whether a chemotherapy scenario adequately reflects the patients' own 
experiences with chemotherapy.
METHOD: Forty-three patients with early-stage breast cancer evaluated their 
actually experienced health state and a chemotherapy scenario before, during, 
and after undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy (chemotherapy group). A control group 
of 51 patients for whom chemotherapy was not part of the treatment plan was 
interviewed at similar points in time. Utilities were elicited by means of a 
visual analog scale (VAS), a chained time trade-off (TTO), and a chained 
standard gamble (SG).
RESULTS: The utilities for the chemotherapy scenario remained relatively stable 
over time in the 2 patient groups. Furthermore, the chemotherapy scenario was 
evaluated more positively by patients in the chemotherapy group than by control 
patients (e.g., utilities before chemotherapy: VAS 0.69 vs. 0.50, TTO 0.88 vs. 
0.50, SG 0.92 vs. 0.58, all Ps < 0.01). Finally, patients in the chemotherapy 
group evaluated their actually experienced health states during chemotherapy 
higher than the chemotherapy scenario that was assessed at the same time (VAS 
0.79 vs. 0.69, TTO 0.93 vs. 0.87, SG 0.97 vs. 0.96, all Ps < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Both within-group stability and between-group differences were 
found. A possible explanation for within-group stability may be that the 
chemotherapy scenario did not fully correspond to the patients' actual 
experiences with chemotherapy ("noncorresponding description"). Therefore, 
preferences did not change even when the patients' own clinical health status 
had changed. The between-group differences may be explained by "anticipated 
adaptation." Both explanations may work together to explain why utilities remain 
stable within the same patients but differ between different patient groups.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100405
PMID: 11475386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Med Decis Making. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):307-23. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100406.

Does cost-effectiveness analysis make a difference? Lessons from Pap smears. 
Symposium.

Hagen MD, Garber AM, Goldie SJ, Lafata JE, Mandelblatt J, Meltzer D, Neumann P, 
Siegel JE, Sox HC Jr, Tsevat J.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100406
PMID: 11475387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Med Decis Making. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):329-34. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100408.

Visual analog scales: do they have a role in the measurement of preferences for 
health states?

Torrance GW, Feeny D, Furlong W.

Visual analog scales (VASs) have long been used as a method of measuring 
preferences for health outcomes. They are easy and inexpensive to implement, can 
be administered quickly, and lend themselves to self-completion. Over time, 
however, disturbing questions have emerged concerning the validity of the VAS 
approach. This article reviews briefly the history, theory, practice, problems, 
and advantages of VASs; presents some suggestions to improve the validity of 
VASs; and recommends a limited but useful role for VASs in the process of 
measuring preferences for health states.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100408
PMID: 11475389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Acta Med Port. 2001 Mar-Apr;14(2):247-75.

[Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease].

[Article in Portuguese]

Luís AS(1), Pina J, Vieira JR, Sotto-Mayor R.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Pneumologia, Hospitais da Universidade de Coimbra, Coimbra.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) includes two entities, Chronic 
Bronchitis (C.B.) and Emphysema (E.), assembled by their common 
physiopathological feature, a progressive expiratory airflow obstruction. The 
presence of hyperreactivity is common and partial reversibility may be observed. 
The coexistence of CB and E. is largely the most prevalent. Cigarette smoking is 
the main risk factor per se or associated with other urban or occupational air 
pollutants. Therefore epidemiological COPD rats follow the prevalence of smoking 
habits in the population. The main goal of the strategy against the disease are 
preventive decisions and measures, as far as smoking is concerned. FEV1 values 
lower than 75% of FVC and a decline of FEV1 higher than 30 ml/year indicate a 
high risk of COPD among smokers. The assessment of FEV1 is important for 
monitoring and guiding treatment and is valid for grading the severity of COPD. 
Once the disease is confirmed the therapeutic skills are the following: to 
reduce the symptoms; to prevent and treat the exacerbations; to attenuate the 
functional impairment, both short and long term; to achieve better performance 
in daily activities and quality of life; to avoid and minimise the adverse 
effects of medication. The increase in life expectancy and the reduction of 
mortality are tangible goals related to a global and multidisciplinary approach. 
They mainly depend on smoking cessation, reducing the bronchial obstruction, and 
correcting chronic hypoxemia.

PMID: 11475989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Med J Aust. 2001 Jul 2;175(1):37-8. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143511.x.

EBM in practice: aged care.

Cameron ID(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Sydney, NSW. ianc@mail.usyd.edu.au

Clinical trials often exclude older people, and complex interventions are 
incompletely studied, making it difficult to implement evidence-based medicine 
in some areas of aged care. There is good-quality evidence to guide the 
treatment of many of the common clinical problems encountered in older people. 
Use of outcome measures in trials (eg, quality-adjusted life-years or 
disability-adjusted life-years) that are normally applied to the general 
population may disadvantage older people, for whom regaining independence is the 
chief concern. There is a gap between the availability of evidence and its 
application in routine provision of medical care for older people.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143511.x
PMID: 11476202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Lancet. 2001 Jul 21;358(9277):194-200. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)05407-1.

Income inequality, the psychosocial environment, and health: comparisons of 
wealthy nations.

Lynch J(1), Smith GD, Hillemeier M, Shaw M, Raghunathan T, Kaplan G.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Epidemiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI 48109-2029, 
USA. JWLynch@sph.umich.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Jul 21;358(9277):165-6.

BACKGROUND: The theory that income inequality and characteristics of the 
psychosocial environment (indexed by such things as social capital and sense of 
control over life's circumstances) are key determinants of health and could 
account for health differences between countries has become influential in 
health inequalities research and for population health policy.
METHODS: We examined cross-sectional associations between income inequality and 
low birthweight, life expectancy, self-rated health, and age-specific and 
cause-specific mortality among countries providing data in wave III (around 
1989-92) of the Luxembourg Income Study. We also used data from the 1990-91 wave 
of the World Values Survey (WVS). We obtained life expectancy, mortality, and 
low birthweight data from the WHO Statistical Information System.
FINDINGS: Among the countries studied, higher income inequality was strongly 
associated with greater infant mortality (r=0.69, p=0.004 for women; r=0.74, 
p=0.002 for men). Associations between income inequality and mortality declined 
with age at death, and then reversed among those aged 65 years and older. Income 
inequality was inconsistently associated with specific causes of death and was 
not associated with coronary heart disease (CHD), breast or prostate cancer, 
cirrhosis, or diabetes mortality. Countries that had greater trade union 
membership and political representation by women had better child mortality 
profiles. Differences between countries in levels of social capital showed 
generally weak and somewhat inconsistent associations with cause-specific and 
age-specific mortality.
INTERPRETATION: Income inequality and characteristics of the psychosocial 
environment like trust, control, and organisational membership do not seem to be 
key factors in understanding health differences between these wealthy countries. 
The associations that do exist are largely limited to child health outcomes and 
cirrhosis. Explanations for between-country differences in health will require 
an appreciation of the complex interactions of history, culture, politics, 
economics, and the status of women and ethnic minorities.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)05407-1
PMID: 11476836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Lab Clin Med. 2001 Aug;138(2):130-8. doi: 10.1067/mlc.2001.116487.

Exploring the "iron shuttle" hypothesis in chelation therapy: effects of 
combined deferoxamine and deferiprone treatment in hypertransfused rats with 
labeled iron stores and in iron-loaded rat heart cells in culture.

Link G(1), Konijn AM, Breuer W, Cabantchik ZI, Hershko C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition and Metabolism, Hebrew University Hadassah 
Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.

Although iron chelation therapy results in a significant improvement in 
well-being and life expectancy of thalassemic patients with transfusional iron 
overload, failure to achieve these goals in a substantial proportion of patients 
underlines the need for improved methods of treatment. In the present studies we 
used selective radioactive iron probes of hepatocellular and reticuloendothelial 
(RE) iron stores in hypertransfused rats and iron-loaded heart cells to compare 
the source of iron chelated in vivo by deferoxamine (DFO) or by deferiprone (L1) 
and its mode of excretion, to examine the ability of DFO and L1 to remove iron 
directly from iron-loaded myocardial cells, and to examine the mechanism of 
their combined interaction through a possible additive or synergistic effect. 
Our results indicate that L1 given orally is 1.6 to 1.9 times more effective in 
rats, on a weight-per-weight basis, than parenteral DFO in promoting the 
excretion of storage iron from parenchymal iron stores but shows no advantage 
over DFO in promoting RE iron excretion. Simultaneous administration of DFO and 
L1 results in an increase in chelating effect that is additive but not 
synergistic. The magnitude of this additive effect is identical to an increase 
in the equivalent (weight or molar) dose of DFO alone rather than the sum of the 
separate effects of L1 and DFO. This finding is most probably the result of a 
transfer of chelated iron from L1 to DFO. These observations may have practical 
implications for current efforts to design better therapeutic strategies for the 
management of transfusional iron overload.

DOI: 10.1067/mlc.2001.116487
PMID: 11477380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Int J Cancer. 2001 Sep 1;93(5):751-8. doi: 10.1002/ijc.1390.

Temporal changes in liver cancer incidence rates in Japan: accounting for death 
certificate inaccuracies and improving diagnostic techniques.

Sharp GB(1), Cologne JB, Fukuhara T, Itakura H, Yamamoto M, Tokuoka S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan. sharp@rerf.or.jp

Primary liver cancer (PLC) rates have risen dramatically during the past few 
decades in some regions, particularly in Japan, where PLC is now the third major 
cause of cancer death. PLC is one of the most difficult tumors to diagnose 
correctly, because (i) the liver is a frequent site of cancer metastasis and 
(ii) death from PLC is often attributed to cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis. Also, 
because the disease is often rapidly fatal, a large proportion of liver cancer 
cases are identified based on death certificates alone without confirmation by 
clinical records. Thus, worldwide differences in published incidence rates for 
this disease reflect regional or national differences in both the accuracy of 
death certificates and the sensitivity of diagnostic methods. By comparing death 
certificate causes of death with those based on pathology review, we were able 
to adjust 1958--1994 incidence rates for a large Japanese cohort for these 
errors. Although the death certificate false-positive error rate declined, the 
false-negative error rate remained high throughout the study. The introduction 
of improved liver cancer diagnostic methods in Japan in the early 1980s was 
associated with a sharp increase in PLC incidence. We conclude that errors in 
death certificate causes of death and changes in liver cancer diagnostic 
techniques have had an important impact on the reported incidence of this 
disease. Taking these factors into account, rates of hepatocellular carcinoma 
rose between 2.4- and 4.3-fold in our Japanese cohort from 1960 to 1985, peaked 
about 1993 and declined thereafter. Incidence rates of cholangiocarcinoma 
remained stable through 1987.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.1390
PMID: 11477591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(7):679-80.

Setting health priorities: the development of cost-effectiveness league tables.

Fox-Rushby J(1), Mills A, Walker D.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel 
Street, London, WC1E 7HT, England. Julia.Fox-Rushby@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment on
    Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(7):681-4.

PMCID: PMC2566465
PMID: 11477972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Orv Hetil. 2001 Jul 1;142(26):1375-83.

[Left ventricular hypertrophy: pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nagy V(1).

Author information:
(1)Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, II. Belgyógyászati Klinika, Semmelweis Egyetem 
Budapest.

The life expectancy of hypertonic patients is basically determined by the 
complications of their disease. The increasing hypertension induces compensated 
processes in cardiovascular system, however, these alterations further worsen 
the mortality rates. It is evident that left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) 
should be prevented. If it is the case, it has to be moderated among the 
possible circumstances. To regression of LVH produced by hypertony the decrease 
of hypertension is not enough, while the process is rather complex. Because the 
structural changes in the interstitial tissue followed by the alterations of 
heart myocytes hypertrophy, hyperplasy and apoptosis of myocytes, as well as the 
interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, coronary remodelling and necrosis in the 
consequence of insufficient blood circulation can be widely observed. The 
individual prognosis of LVH can be determined by echocardiography, while the 
concentric remodelling the development of excentric and concentric hypertrophy 
is strictly parallel with the increase in the mortality and morbidity rates. 
According to the evidences the treatment consists of life mode controlling and 
suitable drug therapy. First line medicines are the ACE-inhibitors and 
indapamides, later on these drugs can be further combined with calcium 
antagonists and beta-blockers, if necessary.

PMID: 11478033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Lakartidningen. 2001 Jun 27;98(26-27):3133-4.

[Joggers live longer].

[Article in Swedish]

Schnohr P(1), Parner J, Lange P.

Author information:
(1)Bispebjerg hospital, Köpenhamn.

In all 4,658 men, 20-79 years of age, with no prior myocardial infarction, 
attended two examinations. Jogging status was self-reported based on the 
question "Are you a jogger?" The study shows that regular jogging is not 
associated with increased mortality in men, as the joggers had significantly 
lower mortality than non-joggers. The lower mortality of joggers could be an 
effect of the physical training, but it could also be due to selection or a 
combination of both. On the other hand, numerous studies within the fields of 
epidemiology, work-physiology, psychology and biochemistry have all pointed 
toward a beneficial effect of physical activity on health, but the optimal 
intensity, frequency and duration of physical activity has yet to be 
established.

PMID: 11478208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Intern Med J. 2001 Jan-Feb;31(1):48-52. doi:
10.1046/j.1445-5994.2001.00005.x.

Population screening for HFE-associated haemochromatosis: should we have to pay 
for our genes?

Yapp TR(1), Eijkelkamp EJ, Powell LW.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Intern Med J. 2001 Nov;31(8):501.

Haemochromatosis associated with mutations in the HFE gene is the most common 
inherited disorder in Caucasian populations. Early diagnosis and treatment 
allows for normal life expectancy, whereas there is considerable morbidity and 
early mortality in those patients diagnosed late or untreated. Unfortunately, 
the development of symptoms and signs in haemochromatosis is usually associated 
with significant iron overload. For this reason, many clinicians and geneticists 
have advocated population screening. The recent identification of the HFE gene 
and the availability of a simple DNA-based diagnostic test have led to 
international debate as to the most cost-effective means of population screening 
for HFE-associated haemochromatosis. The present paper summarizes the evidence 
in favour of population screening and analyses the relative advantages of 
genotypic (DNA test) versus phenotypic (transferrin saturation) testing.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1445-5994.2001.00005.x
PMID: 11478357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Sep;53(5):569-78. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00361-0.

Comorbid depressive symptomatology: isolating the effects of chronic medical 
conditions on self-reported depressive symptoms among community-dwelling older 
adults.

Mills TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Institute on Aging, University of Florida, 
Gainesville 32611-7330, USA. tlmills@soc.ufl.edu

Advances in medical technology and surgical knowledge have greatly extended the 
life expectancy of older individuals with chronic disabilities. Among the older 
adult population the prevalence of comorbid chronic illness and depressive 
symptoms has often been investigated. Yet there continues to be a lack of 
understanding about the consequences of specific chronic illnesses on depressive 
symptoms. Using cross-sectional data while simultaneously controlling the 
effects of various socioenvironmental, demographic, and other factors, this 
study analyzed the prevalence of self-reported depressive symptoms in relation 
to chronic illness. The cumulative effect of medical comorbidity and the 
specific effect of individual chronic illnesses were examined. The sample 
consisted of 359 older white Americans aged 55-93. Overall, the findings show 
that self-reports of depressive symptoms were greater among those individuals 
who also reported digestive disorders, respiratory ailments, and heart problems. 
These results suggest that for older white Americans these three chronic 
conditions may present a greater mental health burden than other chronic 
illnesses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00361-0
PMID: 11478537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Med Ethics. 2001 Aug;27(4):217-22. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.4.217.

Economics and ethics in health care.

Culyer AJ.

This editorial provides a review of the current ways in which health economics 
is impacting on policy and reviews some of the key ethical and value-judgmental 
issues that commonly arise in and as a result of the work of economists. It also 
briefly highlights the contributions of the authors of this special issue of the 
journal, all of which illustrate how economists have approached ethical issues 
in health service policy (both in its financing and its delivery), and some of 
which explore the major methodological matters that arise and go on to discuss 
their potential as sources of conflict or harmony with other approaches to the 
same questions. Key Words: Health economics • value judgments • resource 
allocation • ethics • QALYs

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.4.217
PMCID: PMC1733424
PMID: 11479350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Med Ethics. 2001 Aug;27(4):223-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.4.223.

Ethics and health care 'underfunding'.

Maynard A.

There are continual "crises" in health care systems worldwide as producer and 
patient groups unify and decry the "underfunding" of health care. Sometimes this 
cacophony is the self interest of profit seeking producers and often it is 
advocacy of unproven therapies. Such pressure is to be expected and needs 
careful management by explicit rationing criteria which determine who gets 
access to what health care. Science and rationality, however, are unfortunately, 
rarely the rules of conduct in the medical market-place. Key Words: Underfunding 
• rationing • efficiency • equity • accountability

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.4.223
PMCID: PMC1733425
PMID: 11479351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Med Ethics. 2001 Aug;27(4):228-33. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.4.228.

A 'fair innings' for efficiency in health services?

Bosanquet N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department ofPrimary Care and General Practice, Imperial College School of 
Medicine, University of London.

This paper reviews the severe visual focus problems of health economists-they 
have developed a one-sided fixation with equity issues, neglecting the 
efficiency agenda. The problems of meeting need are not just about access--they 
will vary with cost and supply. Economists in fact developed a more balanced 
agenda in the 1970s but have failed to follow it up. The paper defines the 
triple nationalisation of the National Health Service (NHS), and presents 
evidence that pluralism, using the purchaser/provider split, has become more 
efficient in long term care, home care and services for people with learning 
difficulties. Health economics has failed to explore options for using the 
dynamic forces of choice and competition for improving health services. The 
paper makes the case for a decision rule that "we should seek the process of 
health care service supply and development which maximises the delivery of high 
quality, lower cost user relevant services".

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.4.228
PMCID: PMC1733419
PMID: 11479352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Med Ethics. 2001 Aug;27(4):245-50. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.4.245.

Analysing health outcomes.

Dowie J(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London.

If we cross-classify the absolutist-consequentialist distinction with an 
intuitive-analytical one we can see that economists probably attract the 
hostility of those in the other three cells as a result of being analytical 
consequentialists, as much as because of their concern with "costs". Suggesting 
that some sources of utility (either "outcome" or "process" in origin) are to be 
regarded as rights cannot, says the analytical consequentialist, overcome the 
fact that fulfilling and respecting rights is a resource-consuming activity, one 
that will inevitably have consequences, in resource-constrained situations, for 
the fulfillment of the rights of others. Within the analytical consequentialist 
framework QALY-type measures of health outcome have the unique advantage of 
allowing technical and allocative efficiency to be addressed simultaneously, 
while differential weighting of QALYs accruing to different groups means that 
efficiency and equity can be merged into the necessary single maximand. But what 
if such key concepts of the analytical consequentialist are not part of the 
discursive equipment of others? Are they to be disqualified from using them on 
this ground? Is it ethical for intuition to be privileged in ethical discourse, 
or is the analyst entitled to "equal opportunities" in the face of 
"analysisism", the cognitive equivalent of "racism" and "sexism"?

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.4.245
PMCID: PMC1733431
PMID: 11479355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Med Ethics. 2001 Aug;27(4):251-5. doi: 10.1136/jme.27.4.251.

How economics could extend the scope of ethical discourse.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington.

Ethical discourse is typically inconclusive, and with good reason. But this 
inconclusiveness is a distinct disadvantage when it comes to helping publicly 
accountable policy-makers in the health care system provide an ethical 
justification for their decisions. It is suggested that instead of ending with 
platitudinous statements such as that a balance has to be struck between the 
rival ethical considerations, empirical research should be undertaken to elicit 
the quantitative trade-offs that the affected general public would be prepared 
to accept when striking this balance. In the expected absence of any consensus, 
it is further suggested that the views of the median person be taken as the best 
approximation to the group view. Finally it is argued that, far from this 
quantitative approach lacking humanity by treating individuals as "mere 
statistics", it shows greater compassion than the proponents of those approaches 
whose fellow feeling can only be stirred by information pertaining to identified 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.27.4.251
PMCID: PMC1733433
PMID: 11479356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nat Med. 2001 Aug;7(8):878. doi: 10.1038/90895.

Update on American death, disease and exercise.

Horwitz S, Irvine S.

DOI: 10.1038/90895
PMID: 11479608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Rev Med Virol. 2001 Jul-Aug;11(4):253-70. doi: 10.1002/rmv.323.

Hepatitis B and hepatitis C co-infection in patients with HIV.

Herrero Martínez E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology and Haemophilia Centre, Royal Free and University 
College Medical School, London NW3 2PF, UK. E.Herrero@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Rev Med Virol 2001 Sep-Oct;11(5):343.

HAART has increased the life expectancy of patients with HIV. However, as their 
life expectancy increases, it becomes increasingly important to focus on the 
management of concurrent illnesses such as chronic HBV and HCV infections which 
have the potential to increase mid to long term morbidity and mortality. Shared 
epidemiological risks have resulted in the HIV infected population having a 
higher incidence of both HBV and HCV than those uninfected with HIV. 
Co-infection with HIV modifies the natural history of HBV infection, increasing 
the rate of viral replication, risk of carriage and chronic hepatitis but 
without increasing liver necroinflammatory processes. In chronic HCV infection, 
the presence of HIV enhances the risk of severe liver disease. There is no 
evidence as yet that HBV directly impacts on HIV disease progression but HCV 
infection increases the risk of death or an AIDS defining illness and impairs 
CD4+ T cell recovery during antiretroviral therapy. Treatment of either 
hepatitis virus is complex because of pharmacokinetic interactions with 
components of HAART regimens.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/rmv.323
PMID: 11479931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Eval Rev. 2001 Aug;25(4):474-502. doi: 10.1177/0193841X0102500404.

Probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis of HIV prevention. Comparing a 
Bayesian approach with traditional deterministic sensitivity analysis.

Johnson-Masotti AP(1), Laud PW, Hoffmann RG, Hayat MJ, Pinkerton SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, 2071 North Summit Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202, USA. ajohnson@mcw.edu

In cost-effectiveness analysis, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is used 
to measure economic efficiency of a new intervention, relative to an existing 
one. However, costs and effects are seldom known with certainty. Uncertainty 
arises from two main sources: uncertainty regarding correct values of 
intervention-related parameters and uncertainty associated with sampling 
variation. Recently, attention has focused on Bayesian techniques for 
quantifying uncertainty. We computed the Bayesian-based 95% credible interval 
estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of several related HIV 
prevention interventions and compared these results with univariate sensitivity 
analyses. The conclusions were comparable, even though the probabilistic 
technique provided additional information.

DOI: 10.1177/0193841X0102500404
PMID: 11480309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Clin Psychiatry. 2001;62 Suppl 16:26-31.

The burden of disease for treatment-resistant depression.

Greden JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan Depression Center, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

Assessing the consequences of specific diseases on global, national, and 
individual levels is complex. The Global Burden of Disease Study was launched in 
1992 to develop objective measures of the burden of disease. Two measures have 
become widely accepted: disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) assesses years of 
life lost due to a disease plus years lived with the disability due to that 
disease, and years lived with disability (YLDs) is a related measure with 
greater relevance for diseases that do not routinely produce earlier mortality. 
When DALYs and YLDs were compared world-wide for 100 disorders, they revealed a 
huge burden of disease for depression. Indeed, the findings were startling. 
Neuropsychiatric conditions are by far the world's leader in YLDs, accounting 
for almost 30%. Unipolar major depressive disorder alone accounted for 11% of 
global YLDs. The disability of major depressive disorder produces its greatest 
burden upon women and starts early in life. No separate disability assessments 
have been compiled for treatment-resistant depression, but of individuals with 
major depressive disorder, the most severely disabled are those with 
treatment-resistant depression. The contributions to the morbidity associated 
with major depressive disorder and treatment-resistant depression include 
widespread prevalence; relatively early symptom onset; severe underdiagnosis and 
undertreatment; genetic vulnerabilities and precipitation or accentuation by 
relatively unavoidable stressors; a longitudinal pattern of frequent recurrences 
with increasing frequency, severity, and consequences unless treated with 
maintenance strategies; inadequate prioritization of recurrence prevention among 
clinicians; and possible suppression of brain neurogenesis, neuronal atrophy, 
cell death, hippocampal dysfunction, and magnetic resonance imaging changes for 
those with chronic treatment-resistant depression. Since the patterns of 
recurrences, cycle acceleration, and increasing severity of treatment-resistant 
depression are key reasons for its high burden, reducing the burden requires an 
entire paradigm shift, including emphasis on the prevention of recurrences. Only 
then will this prevalent, disabling yet treatable disorder lose its ignominious 
status as a world leader in disease burden.

PMID: 11480881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Indian Med Assoc. 2001 Jan;99(1):39, 42-4.

Depressive disorders in old age.

Khandelwal SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, BP Koirala Institute of Medical Sciences, Dharan, 
Nepal.

People are living longer life since with the improvement in health and medical 
services provided. Developing countries are not lagging behind the developed 
world as far as the life expectancy is concerned. The principal mental disorders 
of elderly people are mood disorders and dementia. In older people living in a 
community the rates of depressive disorders are likely to be the same as for all 
age groups of the general population, yet its prevalence in old age institution 
is high. Aetiology of depression in old age is caused by a variety of conditions 
namely genetic factors, physiological changes in all the systems, disability, 
loss of resources, some medical illness, etc. Clinical features include 
depressed mood most of the day, significant weight loss, persistent 
sleeplessness, fatigue, feelings of worthlessness, recurrent thoughts of death 
and suicidal attempt, etc. Tricyclic antidepressants are effective in elderly 
depressives. Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors are well tolerated by 
elderly patients and are effective too. Electroconvulsive therapy is an 
alternative treatment of acute depression. Psychotherapy is often helpful and 
long-term care should be planned for to reduce disability.

PMID: 11480956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Health Care Financ Rev. 2000 Summer;21(4):23-43.

Disparities in Medicare services: potential causes, plausible explanations, and 
recommendations.

Gornick ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown Public Policy Institute, USA. mgornick@aol.com

Race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status (SES) are associated with the use of 
Medicare services. In this article, the author juxtaposes disparities in health 
outcome measures (including death rates for heart disease, cancer, and stroke) 
with disparities in the use of elective services expected to improve health, and 
with disparities in the use of non-elective services associated with poor 
management of chronic disease. This approach is intended to provide information 
for judging (a) the reasonableness of the explanations offered for disparities 
in Medicare utilization and (b) the recommendations made to effect change.

PMCID: PMC4194636
PMID: 11481743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Health Care Financ Rev. 2000 Spring;21(3):171-84.

Health-related quality of life predictors of survival and hospital utilization.

Parkerson GR Jr(1), Gutman RA.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, USA. parke001@mc.duke.edu

The health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of 103 end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
patients on hemodialysis was studied for prediction of 1-year survival and 
hospital days in the context of other predictors. Higher HRQOL physical 
functioning, higher provider-reported functional performance, fewer private 
religious activities, living with family, black race, and having a diagnosis of 
hypertension predicted survival. Lower HRQOL energy, higher pain, and not living 
with family predicted more hospital days. Patients living with family reported 
more social support and better HRQOL general health, emotional well-being, 
social health, and quality of social interactions than other patients.

PMCID: PMC4194681
PMID: 11481754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Manag Care Interface. 2001 Jul;14(7):40-1.

Stats & Facts. Prostate-specific antigen screening.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11481814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Health Care Financ Rev. 1999 Summer;20(4):25-43.

Cost and outcomes of Medicare reimbursement for HMO preventive services.

Patrick DL(1), Grembowski D, Durham M, Beresford SA, Diehr P, Ehreth J, Hecht J, 
Picciano J, Beery W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, H689, Box 357660, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA 98195-7660, USA. donald@u.washington.edu

Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in a health maintenance organization (HMO) were 
randomized to a preventive services benefit package for 2 years or to usual 
care. At 24- and 48-month follow-ups, the treatment group had completed more 
advance directives, participated in more exercise, and consumed less dietary fat 
than the control group. Unexpectedly, more deaths occurred in the treatment 
group. Surviving treatment-group enrollees reported higher satisfaction with 
health, less decline in self-rated health status, and fewer depressive symptoms 
than surviving control participants. Despite these changes, the intervention did 
not yield lower cost per quality-adjusted life year in this historically 
