prevention-oriented HMO.

PMCID: PMC4194602
PMID: 11482123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Eur Heart J. 2001 Aug;22(16):1366-8. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2704.

Economics of coronary stenting and GPIIb/IIIa blockade.

Weintraub WS.

Comment on
    Eur Heart J. 2001 Aug;22(16):1476-84.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2704
PMID: 11482914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1113-22. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01584-x.

Incorporating biologic measurements (SF(2), CFE) into a tumor control 
probability model increases their prognostic significance: a study in cervical 
carcinoma treated with radiation therapy.

Buffa FM(1), Davidson SE, Hunter RD, Nahum AE, West CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Institute of Cancer Research and Royal Marsden NHS 
Trust, London, England, UK. fbuffa@icr.ac.uk

PURPOSE: To assess whether incorporation of measurements of surviving fraction 
at 2 Gy (SF(2)) and colony-forming efficiency (CFE) into a tumor control 
probability (tcp) model increases their prognostic significance.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Measurements of SF(2) and CFE were available from a study 
on carcinoma of the cervix treated with radiation alone. These measurements, as 
well as tumor volume, dose, and treatment time, were incorporated into a Poisson 
tcp model (tcp(alpha,rho)). Regression analysis was performed to assess the 
prognostic power of tcp(alpha,rho) vs. the use of either tcp models with 
biologic parameters fixed to best-fit estimates (but incorporating individual 
dose, volume, and treatment time) or the use of SF(2) and CFE measurements 
alone.
RESULTS: In a univariate regression analysis of 44 patients, tcp(alpha,rho) was 
a better prognostic factor for both local control and survival (p < 0.001 and p 
= 0.049, respectively) than SF(2) alone (p = 0.009 for local control, p = 0.29 
for survival) or CFE alone (p = 0.015 for local control, p = 0.38 for survival). 
In multivariate analysis, tcp(alpha,rho) emerged as the most important 
prognostic factor for local control (p < 0.001, relative risk of 2.81). After 
allowing for tcp(alpha,rho), CFE was still a significant independent prognostic 
factor for local control, whereas SF(2) was not. The sensitivities of 
tcp(alpha,rho) and SF(2) as predictive tests for local control were 87% and 65%, 
respectively. Specificities were 70% and 77%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A Poisson tcp model incorporating individual SF(2), CFE, dose, 
tumor volume, and treatment time was found to be the best independent prognostic 
factor for local control and survival in cervical carcinoma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01584-x
PMID: 11483320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1123-35. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01533-4.

High-dose-rate brachytherapy in the treatment of uterine cervix cancer. Analysis 
of dose effectiveness and late complications.

Ferrigno R(1), dos Santos Novaes PE, Pellizzon AC, Maia MA, Fogarolli RC, Gentil 
AC, Salvajoli JV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital do Câncer A.C. Camargo, São Paulo, 
Brazil. rferrigno@uol.com.br

PURPOSE: This retrospective analysis aims to report results of patients with 
cervix cancer treated by external beam radiotherapy (EBR) and high-dose-rate 
(HDR) brachytherapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: From September 1992 to December 1996, 138 patients with 
FIGO Stages II and III and mean age of 56 years were treated. Median EBR to the 
whole pelvis was 45 Gy in 25 fractions. Parametrial boost was performed in 93% 
of patients, with a median dose of 14.4 Gy. Brachytherapy with HDR was performed 
during EBR or following its completion with a dose of 24 Gy in four weekly 
fractions of 6 Gy to point A. Median overall treatment time was of 60 days. 
Patient age, tumor stage, and overall treatment time were variables analyzed for 
survival and local control. Cumulative biologic effective dose (BED) at rectal 
and bladder reference points were correlated with late complications in these 
organs and dose of EBR at parametrium was correlated with small bowel 
complications.
RESULTS: Median follow-up time was 38 months. Overall survival, disease-free 
survival, and local control at 5 years was 53.7%, 52.7%, and 62%, respectively. 
By multivariate and univariate analysis, overall treatment time up to 50 days 
was the only statistically significant adverse variable for overall survival (p 
= 0.003) and actuarial local control (p = 0.008). The 5-year actuarial incidence 
of rectal, bladder, and small bowel late complications was 16%, 11%, and 14%, 
respectively. Patients treated with cumulative BED at rectum points above 110 
Gy(3) and at bladder point above 125 Gy(3) had a higher but not statistically 
significant 5-year actuarial rate of complications at these organs (18% vs. 12%, 
p = 0.49 and 17% vs. 9%, p = 0.20, respectively). Patients who received 
parametrial doses larger than 59 Gy had a higher 5-year actuarial rate of 
complications in the small bowel; however, this was not statistically 
significant (19% vs. 10%, p = 0.260).
CONCLUSION: This series suggests that 45 Gy to the whole pelvis combined with 
four fractions of 6 Gy to point A with HDR brachytherapy is an effective and 
safe fractionation schedule in the treatment of Stages II and III cervix cancer 
if realized up to 50 days. To decrease the small bowel complications, we 
decreased the superior border of the parametrial fields to the S2-S3 level and 
the total dose to 54 Gy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01533-4
PMID: 11483321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1136-44. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01573-5.

Analysis of recurrence of squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix after 
definitive radiation therapy alone: patterns of recurrence, latent periods, and 
prognosis.

Sakurai H(1), Mitsuhashi N, Takahashi M, Akimoto T, Muramatsu H, Ishikawa H, 
Imai R, Yamakawa M, Hasegawa M, Niibe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Radiation Oncology, Gunma University School of 
Medicine, Gunma, Japan. hsakurai@med.gunma-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: A retrospective analysis was performed with emphasis on the patterns of 
recurrence, latent period, and prognosis in patients with cervical squamous cell 
carcinoma of the uterus treated with definitive radiation therapy alone. Late 
recurrence, which was observed more than 5 years after the initial radiation 
therapy, was finally focused on and discussed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1976 and 1994, 256 patients with squamous cell 
carcinoma of the uterine cervix without hematogenous metastasis were treated 
with definitive radiation therapy alone. The patients were staged as follows 
according to the FIGO classification: 26 in Stage I, 56 in Stage II, 124 in 
Stage III, 28 in Stage IVa, and 22 in Stage IVb. All the patients were treated 
with external beam irradiation and low-dose-rate intracavitary brachytherapy.
RESULTS: A total of 74 patients had recurrence. The recurrence appeared in 67 
cases (90.5%) within 5 years. Metastasis to para-aortic and/or supraclavicular 
nodes developed later than other types of recurrence. Among patients with 
lymphogenous metastasis, there were more 5-year survivors after recurrence than 
with other types of recurrence. Patients with early recurrence, within 2 years 
of the initial therapy, had a worse prognosis than those with recurrence more 
than 2 years after treatment. Seven patients (2.7%) in all developed late 
recurrence more than 5 years after the treatment. The first site of recurrence 
was an abdominal para-aortic or supraclavicular node in all patients, excluding 
one patient who developed intrapelvic lymph node metastasis. Six patients had 
pelvic node metastasis detected with lymphangiography at the initial treatment. 
Median survival after late recurrence was 16.0 months. Two of 7 patients 
survived more than 3 years after secondary radiation therapy, and the remainder 
died of recurrent disease.
CONCLUSION: Patients with para-aortic and/or supraclavicular node metastasis 
that developed late after the initial treatment are more likely to survive due 
to secondary radiation therapy. Careful follow-up is emphasized for long-term 
survivors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01573-5
PMID: 11483322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1145-53. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01566-8.

Significant pelvic recurrence in high-risk pathologic stage I--IV endometrial 
carcinoma patients after adjuvant chemotherapy alone: implications for adjuvant 
radiation therapy.

Mundt AJ(1), McBride R, Rotmensch J, Waggoner SE, Yamada SD, Connell PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, Section of Gynecologic 
Oncology, University of Chicago Hospitals, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
mundt@rover.uchicago.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the risk of pelvic recurrence (PVR) in high-risk 
pathologic Stage I--IV endometrial carcinoma patients after adjuvant 
chemotherapy alone.
METHODS: Between 1992 and 1998, 43 high-risk endometrial cancer patients 
received adjuvant chemotherapy. All patients underwent primary surgery 
consisting of total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. 
No patients received preoperative radiation therapy (RT). Regional lymph nodes 
and peritoneal cytology were sampled in 62.8% and 83.7% of cases, respectively. 
Most patients had Stage III--IV disease (83.7%) or unfavorable histology tumors 
(74.4%). None had evidence of extra-abdominal disease. All patients received 4-6 
cycles of chemotherapy as the sole adjuvant therapy, consisting primarily of 
cisplatin and doxorubicin. Recurrent disease sites were divided into pelvic 
(vaginal, nonvaginal) and extrapelvic (para-aortic, upper abdomen, liver, and 
extra-abdominal). Median follow-up was 27 months (range, 2--96 months).
RESULTS: Twenty-nine women (67.4%) relapsed. Seventeen (39.5%) recurred in the 
pelvis and 23 (55.5%) in extrapelvic sites. The 3-year actuarial PVR rate was 
46.5%. The most significant factors correlated with PVR were cervical 
involvement (CI) (p = 0.01) and adnexal (p = 0.05) involvement. Of the 17 women 
who developed a PVR, 8 relapsed in the vagina, 3 in the nonvaginal pelvis, and 6 
in both. The 3-year vaginal and nonvaginal PVR rates were 37.8% and 26%, 
respectively. The most significant factor correlated with vaginal PVR was CI (p 
= 0.0007). Deep myometrial invasion (p = 0.02) and lymph nodal involvement (p = 
0.03) were both correlated with nonvaginal PVR. Nine of the 29 relapsed patients 
(31%) developed PVR as their only (6) or first site (3) of recurrence. Factors 
associated with a higher rate of PVR (as the first or only site) were CI and 
Stage I--II disease.
CONCLUSIONS: PVR is common in high-risk pathologic Stage I-IV endometrial cancer 
patients after adjuvant chemotherapy alone. These results support the continued 
use of locoregional RT in patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy. Further 
studies are needed to test the addition of chemotherapy to locoregional RT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01566-8
PMID: 11483323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1154-60. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01590-5.

Surgery and postoperative radiation therapy in FIGO Stage IIIC endometrial 
carcinoma.

Mundt AJ(1), Murphy KT, Rotmensch J, Waggoner SE, Yamada SD, Connell PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, Section of Gynecologic 
Oncology, University of Chicago Hospitals, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
mundt@rover.uchicago.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the outcome, pattern(s) of failure, and optimal 
treatment volume in Stage IIIC endometrial carcinoma patients treated with 
surgery and postoperative radiation therapy (RT).
METHODS: Between 1983 and 1998, 30 Stage IIIC endometrial carcinoma patients 
were treated with primary surgery and postoperative RT at the University of 
Chicago. All underwent total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy, sampling of pelvic lymph nodes (PLN), and peritoneal 
cytology. All were noted to have PLN involvement. Para-aortic lymph nodes (PALN) 
were sampled in 26 cases, and were positive in 14 cases (54%). Twenty women 
received whole-pelvic RT (WPRT) and 10 (WPRT), plus paraortic RT (extended-field 
RT, EFRT). One EFRT patient also underwent concomitant whole-abdominal RT 
(WART). Adjuvant vaginal brachytherapy (VB) was delivered in 10, chemotherapy in 
5, and hormonal therapy in 7 patients.
RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 32 months, the actuarial 5-year disease-free 
and cause-specific survivals of the entire group were 33.9% and 55.8%, 
respectively. Overall, 16 women (53%) relapsed. Sites of failure included the 
pelvis (23%), abdomen (13%), PALN (13%), and distant (40%). Of the 7 pelvic 
failures, 4 were vaginal (3 vaginal only). Patients treated with VB had a trend 
to a lower vaginal recurrence rate (0/10 vs. 4/20, p = 0.12) than those not 
receiving VB. All 4 PALN failures were in women treated with WPRT (2 negative, 1 
unsampled, and 1 positive PALN). None of the 10 EFRT patients (2 negative, 8 
positive PALN) recurred in the PALN. No patient developed an isolated abdominal 
recurrence. Two patients developed significant RT sequelae: chronic diarrhea in 
1 patient treated with WPRT and VB, and small bowel obstruction in 1 patient 
treated with EFRT.
CONCLUSION: FIGO Stage IIIC disease comprises a small percentage of endometrial 
carcinoma patients but carries a poor prognosis. Our failure pattern suggests 
that the optimal adjuvant RT volume is EFRT, even in women with negative PALN 
sampling. VB should also be administered to improve local control. The low rate 
of abdominal recurrence does not support the routine use of WART in these women. 
Given the predominance of failure in distant sites, attention should be focused 
on the development of systemic chemotherapy protocols.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01590-5
PMID: 11483324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1161-71. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01544-9.

Intensified hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy limits the additional 
benefit of simultaneous chemotherapy--results of a multicentric randomized 
German trial in advanced head-and-neck cancer.

Staar S(1), Rudat V, Stuetzer H, Dietz A, Volling P, Schroeder M, Flentje M, 
Eckel HE, Mueller RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. 
susanne.starr@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Erratum in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2001 Oct 1;51(2):569.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2002 Apr 1;52(5):1423; author reply 1423-4.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2002 Sep 1;54(1):300.

PURPOSE: To demonstrate the efficacy of radiochemotherapy (RCT) as the first 
choice of treatment for advanced unresectable head-and-neck cancer. To prove an 
expected benefit of simultaneously given chemotherapy, a two-arm randomized 
study with hyperfractionated accelerated radiochemotherapy (HF-ACC-RCT) vs. 
hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy (HF-ACC-RT) was initiated. The 
primary endpoint was 1-year survival with local control (SLC).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with Stage III and IV (UICC) unresectable oro- 
and hypopharyngeal carcinomas were randomized for HF-ACC-RCT with 2 cycles of 
5-FU (600 mg/m(2)/day)/carboplatinum (70 mg/m(2)) on days 1--5 and 29--33 (arm 
A) or HF-ACC-RT alone (arm B). In both arms, there was a second randomization 
for testing the effect of prophylactically given G-CSF (263 microg, days 15--19) 
on mucosal toxicity. Total RT dose in both arms was 69.9 Gy in 38 days, with a 
concomitant boost regimen (weeks 1--3: 1.8 Gy/day, weeks 4 and 5: b.i.d. RT with 
1.8 Gy/1.5 Gy). Between July 1995 and May 1999, 263 patients were randomized 
(median age 56 years; 96% Stage IV tumors, 4% Stage III tumors).
RESULTS: This analysis is based on 240 patients: 113 patients with RCT and 127 
patients with RT, qualified for protocol and starting treatment. There were 178 
oropharyngeal and 62 hypopharyngeal carcinomas. Treatment was tolerable in both 
arms, with a higher mucosal toxicity after RCT. Restaging showed comparable 
nonsignificant different CR + PR rates of 92.4% after RCT and 87.9% after RT (p 
= 0.29). After a median observed time of 22.3 months, l- and 2-year 
local-regional control (LRC) rates were 69% and 51% after RCT and 58% and 45% 
after RT (p = 0.14). There was a significantly better 1-year SLC after RCT (58%) 
compared with RT (44%, p = 0.05). Patients with oropharyngeal carcinomas showed 
significantly better SLC after RCT (60%) vs. RT (40%, p = 0.01); the smaller 
group of hypopharyngeal carcinomas had no statistical benefit of RCT (p = 0.84). 
For both tumor locations, prophylactically given G-CSF was a poor prognostic 
factor (Cox regression), and resulted in reduced LRC (log-rank test: +/- G-CSF, 
p = 0.0072).
CONCLUSION: With accelerated radiotherapy, the efficiency of simultaneously 
given chemotherapy may be not as high as expected when compared to standard 
fractionated RT. Oropharyngeal carcinomas showed better LRC after HF-ACC-RCT vs. 
HF-ACC-RT; hypopharyngeal carcinomas did not. Prophylactic G-CSF resulted in an 
unexpected reduced local control and should be given in radiotherapy regimen 
only with strong hematologic indication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01544-9
PMID: 11483325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1172-80. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01538-3.

Treatment results and prognostic factors of advanced T3--4 laryngeal carcinoma: 
the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) and Stanford University 
Hospital (SUH) experience.

Nguyen-Tan PF(1), Le QT, Quivey JM, Singer M, Terris DJ, Goffinet DR, Fu KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California, San Francisco, 
CA, USA. felix.nguyen.chum@ssss.gouv.qc.ca

PURPOSE: To review the UCSF-SUH experience in the treatment of advanced T3--4 
laryngeal carcinoma and to evaluate the different factors affecting locoregional 
control and survival.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We reviewed the records of 223 patients treated for T3--4 
squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx between October 1, 1957, and December 1, 
1999. There were 187 men and 36 women, with a median age of 60 years (range, 
28--85 years). The primary site was glottic in 122 and supraglottic in 101 
patients. We retrospectively staged the patients according to the 1997 AJCC 
staging system. One hundred and twenty-seven patients had T3 lesions, and 96 had 
T4 lesions; 132 had N0, 29 had N1, 45 had N2, and 17 had N3 disease. The overall 
stage was III in 93 and IV in 130 patients. Seventy-nine patients had cartilage 
involvement, and 144 did not. Surgery was the primary treatment modality in 161 
patients, of which 134 had postoperative radiotherapy (RT), 11 had preoperative 
RT, 7 had surgery followed by RT and chemotherapy (CT), and 9 had surgery alone. 
Forty-one patients had RT alone, and 21 had CT with RT. Locoregional control 
(LRC) and overall survival (OS) were estimated using the Kaplan--Meier method. 
Log-rank statistics were employed to identify significant prognostic factors for 
OS and LRC.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 41 months (range, 2--367 months) for all 
patients and 78 months (range, 6--332 months) for alive patients. The LRC rate 
was 69% at 5 years and 68% at 10 years. Eighty-four patients relapsed, of which 
53 were locoregional failures. Significant prognostic factors for LRC on 
univariate analysis were primary site, N stage, overall stage, the lowest 
hemoglobin (Hgb) level during RT, and treatment modality. Favorable prognostic 
factors for LRC on multivariate analysis were lower N stage and primary surgery. 
The overall survival rate was 48% at 5 years and 34% at 10 years. Significant 
prognostic factors for OS on univariate analysis were: primary site, age, 
overall stage, T stage, N stage, lowest Hgb level during RT, and treatment 
modality. Favorable prognostic factors for OS on multivariate analysis were 
lower N stage and higher Hgb level during RT.
CONCLUSION: Lower N-stage was a favorable prognostic factor for LRC and OS. Hgb 
levels > or = 12.5 g/dL during RT was a favorable prognostic factor for OS. 
Surgery was a favorable prognostic factor for LRC but did not impact on OS. 
Correcting the Hbg level before and during treatment should be investigated in 
future clinical trials as a way of improving therapeutic outcome in patients 
with advanced laryngeal carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01538-3
PMID: 11483326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1181-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01537-1.

Is the 1997 AJCC staging system for nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognostically 
useful for Chinese patient populations?

Ma J(1), Mai HQ, Hong MH, Cui NJ, Lu TX, Lu LX, Mo HY, Min HQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University 
of Medical Sciences, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China. drjunma@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: The 5th edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 
staging manual defines new rules for classifying nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). 
The study was conducted to assess its effectiveness in predicting the prognosis 
for Chinese patient populations.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between June 1993 and June 1994, 621 consecutively 
admitted patients with nondisseminated NPC were treated with definitive-intent 
radiation therapy alone. All had computed tomography of the nasopharynx, skull 
base, and the upper neck. A computer database containing all information for 
staging was formed on presentation. The extent of disease of each patient was 
restaged according to the 1997 AJCC system.
RESULTS: Of the 621 patients, The 5-year overall survival (OS) rate was 60%. The 
1997 AJCC system creates subgroups (Stages I to IV) that are assigned to 38 
(6.1%), 270 (43.5%), 157 (25.3%), and 156 (25.1%) patients, respectively. The 
incidence of parapharyngeal extension was 74.1% (460/621). Of these patients 
(460) with parapharyngeal extension, 310 (67.4%) patients were classified as T2b 
disease. The 1997 AJCC system showed highly significant differences between the 
overall stages for both OS and relapse-free survival (RFS). The 1997 AJCC T 
classifications showed significant correlation with local failure, and N 
classification was accurate in predicting FDM. Multivariate analysis showed that 
paraoropharyngeal involvement was an independently significant prognostic factor 
for OS, freedom from local recurrence (FLR), and freedom form distant metastasis 
(FDM).
CONCLUSION: The 1997 AJCC staging system for NPC is prognostically useful for 
Chinese patient populations. We proposed that subdivision of parapharyngeal 
extension should be included in future revisions of the staging system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01537-1
PMID: 11483327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1199-206. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01604-2.

Quality of life assessment in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients 
undergoing an accelerated radiotherapy regimen: report of ECOG study 4593. 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group.

Auchter RM(1), Scholtens D, Adak S, Wagner H, Cella DF, Mehta MP.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI 53792, USA.

PURPOSE: To prospectively evaluate the quality of life (QOL) before, at 
completion, and after therapy for patients receiving an accelerated 
fractionation schedule of radiotherapy for advanced, unresectable non-small-cell 
lung cancer in a Phase II multi-institutional trial.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) 
patient questionnaire was used to score the QOL in patients enrolled in the 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Phase II trial (ECOG 4593) of 
hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer. 
Radiotherapy (total dose 57.6 Gy in 36 fractions) was delivered during 15 days, 
with three radiation fractions given each treatment day. The protocol was 
activated in 1993, and 30 patients had accrued by November 1995. The FACT-L 
questionnaire was administered at study entry (baseline), on the last day of 
radiotherapy (assessment 2), and 4 weeks after therapy (assessment 3). The 
FACT-L includes scores for physical, functional, emotional, and social 
well-being (33 items), and a subscale of lung cancer symptoms (10 additional 
items). The summation of the physical, functional, and lung cancer symptom 
subscales (21 items) constitutes the Trial Outcome Index (TOI), considered the 
most clinically relevant outcome measure in lung cancer treatment trials.
RESULTS: The FACT-L completion rates at the designated study time points were as 
follows: baseline, 30 of 30 (100%); assessment 2, 29 (97%) of 30; and assessment 
3, 24 (80%) of 30. At treatment completion, statistically significant declines 
in QOL scores were noted, compared with baseline for physical and functional 
well-being. Emotional well-being scores improved at both assessment 2 and 
assessment 3. The physical and functional scores returned approximately to 
baseline values at assessment 3. The change in TOI score was evaluated as a 
function of the clinical response to treatment, toxicity grade, and survival; no 
clear association was noted. A trend for the largest decrease in QOL was noted 
for patient groups with shorter survival times. The mean change in the TOI score 
from baseline to assessment 3 was -8.96 for patients surviving < 52 weeks vs. 
-0.95 for those surviving > 52 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: The FACT-L questionnaire can be successfully administered to 
non-small-cell lung cancer patients enrolled in a prospective Phase II trial of 
accelerated radiation fractionation. The decrement in physical and functional 
QOL during treatment returned to baseline level at 4 weeks after treatment. 
Emotional well-being improved at all time points. A trend was noted for shorter 
survival times in patients with the largest negative change in TOI score. These 
data suggest that the clinical use of hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy 
did not cause a significant, long-term decrease in the QOL of the treated 
patients, and that it is feasible to perform a QOL study of patients enrolled in 
such a trial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01604-2
PMID: 11483329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1220-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01558-9.

Serum PSA evaluations during salvage radiotherapy for post-prostatectomy 
biochemical failures as prognosticators for treatment outcomes.

Do T(1), Dave G, Parker R, Kagan AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels have proved to be 
sensitive markers for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. In addition, PSA levels 
are useful for detecting and monitoring prostate cancer progression after 
radiotherapy. Serum PSA evaluations during radiotherapy, however, have not been 
well documented. In this study, we investigate the prognostic value of PSA 
evaluations during salvage radiotherapy for prostatectomy failures.
METHODS: Forty-one patients with biochemical failures after prostatectomy 
treated with salvage radiotherapy consented to have their serum PSA levels 
evaluated at 30 Gy and 45 Gy of irradiation. All 41 patients had negative 
metastatic workup and pathologically uninvolved pelvic lymph nodes at the time 
of referral for salvage radiotherapy. Radiation therapy was delivered with 
10--25 MV photons, with doses of 59.4--66.6 Gy. No patients received hormonal 
ablation therapy before irradiation.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up for all patients was 30.9 months. At last follow-up, 
28/41 patients (68.3%) were free from biochemical failure, with 20 of 41 
patients (48.8%) expressing undetectable PSA levels. Serum PSA evaluations at 30 
Gy did not significantly predict for either biochemical (p = 0.0917) or clinical 
(p = 0.106) disease-free outcome. However, serum PSA evaluations at 45 Gy 
significantly predicted for both biochemical (p = 0.0043) and clinical (p = 
0.0244) disease-free outcomes, with PSA elevations at 45 Gy significantly 
associated with poor outcomes. On univariate analysis of prognosticators for 
biochemical failures, the following were significant: an elevation in serum PSA 
levels at 45 Gy, detectable serum PSA immediately after prostatectomy, Gleason 
score 7--10, and serum PSA level >1 ng/ml before salvage radiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Evaluation of serum PSA level at 45 Gy of salvage radiotherapy for 
biochemical relapses after prostatectomy may serve as a significant 
prognosticator for both biochemical and clinical disease-free outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01558-9
PMID: 11483332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1235-42. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01578-4.

Potency after permanent prostate brachytherapy for localized prostate cancer.

Potters L(1), Torre T, Fearn PA, Leibel SA, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center at 
Mercy Medical Center, Rockville Center, NY 11570, USA. PottersL@mskcc.org

PURPOSE: The evaluation of potency preservation after treatment of localized 
prostate cancer with transperineal permanent prostate brachytherapy (PPB) and 
the efficacy of sildenafil were studied.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: This study comprised 482 patients who were able to 
maintain an erection suitable for intercourse before treatment from a cohort of 
1166 patients with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with PPB. All 
patients have been followed prospectively, and actuarial analysis was performed 
to assess potency preservation over time. Patients treated with sildenafil were 
evaluated as to its efficacy.
RESULTS: The median follow-up of this cohort was 34 months (6--92), with a 
median age of 68 years (47--80). Potency was preserved in 311 of the 482 
patients, with a 5-year actuarial potency rate of 52.7%. The 5-year actuarial 
potency rate for patients treated with PPB as monotherapy was 76%, and, for 
those treated with combination external beam radiotherapy (EBT) + PPB, 56% (p = 
0.08). Patients treated with neoadjuvant androgen deprivation (NAAD) + PPB had a 
5-year potency rate of 52%, whereas those with combination EBT + PPB + NAAD had 
a potency rate of 29% (p = 0.13). Cox regression analysis identified that 
pretreatment use of NAAD and patient age predicted for impotence (p = 0.0001 and 
0.04, respectively). Of 84 patients treated with sildenafil, 52 had a successful 
outcome (62%). The response to sildenafil was significantly better in those 
patients not treated with NAAD (p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The actuarial potency rates at 5 years for patients treated with 
PPB are lower than generally acknowledged, except for those patients treated 
with PPB as monotherapy. Patients who received sildenafil exhibited improved 
potency in a majority of cases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01578-4
PMID: 11483334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1243-52. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01579-6.

Phase III radiation therapy oncology group (RTOG) trial 86-10 of androgen 
deprivation adjuvant to definitive radiotherapy in locally advanced carcinoma of 
the prostate.

Pilepich MV(1), Winter K, John MJ, Mesic JB, Sause W, Rubin P, Lawton C, Machtay 
M, Grignon D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Ann Arbor Regional CCOP, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. pilepicm@trinity-health.org

PURPOSE: To test the hypothesis that androgen ablation before and during 
radiotherapy for locally advanced carcinoma of the prostate may, by reducing 
tumor bulk and enhancing tumor cell kill, improve locoregional control and 
ultimately survival.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The study was conducted from 1987 to 1991. Eligible 
patients were those with bulky tumors (T2--T4) with or without pelvic lymph node 
involvement and without evidence of distant metastases. They were randomized to 
receive goserelin, 3.6 mg every 4 weeks; and flutamide, 250 mg t.i.d. for 2 
months before radiation therapy and during radiation therapy (Arm I), or 
radiation therapy alone (Arm II). Of 471 randomized patients, 456 were 
evaluable: 226 on Arm I and 230 on Arm II.
RESULTS: As of November 1999, the median follow-up has reached 6.7 years for all 
patients and 8.6 years for alive patients. At 8 years, androgen ablation has 
been associated with an improvement in local control (42% vs. 30%, p = 0.016), 
reduction in the incidence of distant metastases (34% vs. 45%, p = 0.04), 
disease-free survival (33% vs. 21%, p = 0.004), biochemical disease-free 
survival = PSA <1.5 (24% vs. 10%, p < 0.0001), and cause-specific mortality (23% 
vs. 31%, p = 0.05). However, subset analysis indicates that the beneficial 
effect of short-term androgen ablation appears preferentially in patients with 
Gleason score 2--6. In that population, there is a highly significant 
improvement in all endpoints, including survival (70% vs. 52%, p = 0.015). In 
patients with Gleason 7--10 tumors, the regimen has not resulted in a 
significant enhancement in either locoregional control or survival.
CONCLUSION: In patients with Gleason score 2--6 carcinoma of the prostate, a 
short course of androgen ablation administered before and during radiotherapy 
has been associated with a highly significant improvement in local control, 
reduction in disease progression, and overall survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01579-6
PMID: 11483335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1253-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01539-5.

Five-year biochemical outcome after prostate brachytherapy for hormone-naive men 
< or = 62 years of age.

Merrick GS(1), Butler WM, Lief JH, Galbreath RW.

Author information:
(1)Schiffler Cancer Center, Wheeling Hospital, Wheeling, WV 26003-6300, USA. 
schifonc@wheelinghosp.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate 5-year biochemical disease-free outcome for hormone naïve 
men 62 years of age or less who underwent transperineal ultrasound-guided 
permanent prostate brachytherapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: 76 patients underwent transperineal ultrasound guided 
prostate brachytherapy using either (103)Pd or (125)I for clinical T1b--T2b NxM0 
(1997 AJCC) adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland from April 1995 to October 
1999. No patient was lost to follow-up, and no patient underwent pathologic 
lymph-node staging. 47 patients were implanted with either (103)Pd or (125)I 
monotherapy, and 29 patients received moderate-dose external-beam radiation 
therapy followed by a prostate brachytherapy boost. No patient received hormonal 
manipulation. The median patient age was 58 years (range, 48--62 years). The 
median follow-up was 37 months (range, 14--70 months). Follow-up was calculated 
from the day of implantation. Biochemical disease-free survival was defined by 
the American Society of Therapeutic Radiation and Oncology (ASTRO) consensus 
definition.
RESULTS: The actuarial 5-year biochemical disease-free survival rate was 98.7%. 
For patients with low-, intermediate-, and high-risk disease, 97.7%, 100%, and 
100%, respectively, were free of biochemical failure. The median posttreatment 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) for the entire group was 0.2 ng/mL. When 
stratified by risk group, the median posttreatment PSA was 0.2, 0.15, and 0.1 
for patients with low-, intermediate-, and high-risk disease, respectively.
CONCLUSION: With a median follow-up of 37 months, hormone naïve patients < or = 
62 years of age have a high probability of 5-year biochemical disease-free 
survival following permanent prostate brachytherapy with an apparent plateau on 
the PSA curve.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01539-5
PMID: 11483336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1258-64. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01549-8.

Stage I and II MALT lymphoma: results of treatment with radiotherapy.

Tsang RW(1), Gospodarowicz MK, Pintilie M, Bezjak A, Wells W, Hodgson DC, Crump 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Hospital, University 
Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
richard.tsang@rmp.uhn.on.ca

PURPOSE: Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma is a distinct disease 
with specific clinical and pathologic features that may affect diverse organs. 
We analyzed our recent experience with Stage I/II MALT lymphoma presenting in 
the stomach and other organs to assess the outcome following involved field 
radiation therapy (RT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy patients with Stage IE (62) and IIE (8) disease 
were treated between 1989 and 1998. Patients with transformed MALT were 
excluded. The median age was 62 years (range, 24--83 years), M:F ratio 1:2.2. 
Presenting sites included stomach, 15; orbital adnexa, 19; salivary glands, 15; 
thyroid, 8; lung, 5; upper airways, 3 (nasopharynx, 2; larynx, 1); urinary 
bladder, 3; breast, 1; and rectum, 1. Staging included site-specific imaging, CT 
abdomen in 66 patients (94%) and bone marrow biopsy in 54 (77%). Sixty-two 
patients received radiation therapy: 52 received RT alone, 7 received 
chemotherapy and RT, and 3 received antibiotics followed by RT. Median RT dose 
was 30 Gy (range, 17.5--35 Gy). Most frequently used RT prescriptions were 25 Gy 
(26 patients-18 orbit, 6 stomach, and 2 salivary glands), 30 Gy (23 patients), 
and 35 Gy (8 patients). Five patients had complete surgical excision of lymphoma 
and no other treatment (stomach 1, salivary 2, lung 2), whereas 2 patients with 
gastric lymphoma received antibiotics only. One patient refused treatment and 
was excluded from the analysis of treatment outcome, leaving 69 patients with a 
median follow-up of 4.2 years (range, 0.3-11.4 years).
RESULTS: A complete response was achieved in 66/69 patients, and 3 patients had 
partial response (2 lung, 1 orbit). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) was 
76%, and the overall survival was 96%. No relapses were observed in patients 
with stomach and thyroid lymphoma. The 5-year DFS for these patients was 93%, in 
contrast to 69% for patients presenting in other sites (p = 0.006). Among the 5 
patients treated with surgery only, 2 relapsed locally (lung, and minor salivary 
gland). Among 62 patients who received RT, 8 relapsed (2 salivary, 3 orbit, 1 
nasopharynx, 1 larynx, 1 breast). Three patients relapsed in the nonirradiated 
contralateral paired organ, 4 in distant sites, and 1 in both local and distant 
sites. The overall local control rate with radiation was 97% (60/62 patients).
CONCLUSION: Localized MALT lymphomas have excellent prognosis following 
moderate-dose RT. Gastric and thyroid MALT lymphomas have better early outcome, 
as compared to the other sites where distant failure is more common. Relapses 
were observed in nonirradiated paired organs or distant sites. Further follow-up 
is required to assess the impact of failure on survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01549-8
PMID: 11483337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1279-86. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01535-8.

Fractionated stereotactically guided radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the 
treatment of functional and nonfunctional adenomas of the pituitary gland.

Milker-Zabel S(1), Debus J, Thilmann C, Schlegel W, Wannenmacher M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Radiology, Radiation Therapy, University of 
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. Stefanie_Milker-Zabel@med.uni-heidelberg.de

PURPOSE: We evaluated survival rates and side effects after fractionated 
stereotactically guided radiotherapy (SCRT) and radiosurgery in patients with 
pituitary adenoma.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1989 and 1998, 68 patients were treated with FSRT 
(n = 63) or radiosurgery (n = 5) for pituitary adenomas. Twenty-six had 
functional and 42 had nonfunctional adenomas. Follow-up included CT/MRI, 
endocrinologic, and ophthalmologic examinations. Mean follow-up was 38.7 months. 
Seven patients received radiotherapy as primary treatment and 39 patients 
received it postoperatively for residual disease. Twenty-two patients were 
treated for recurrent disease after surgery. Mean total dose was 52.2 Gy for 
SCRT, and 15 Gy for radiosurgery.
RESULTS: Overall local tumor control was 93% (60/65 patients). Forty-three 
patients had stable disease based on CT/MRI, while 15 had a reduction of tumor 
volume. After FSRT, 26% with a functional adenoma had a complete remission and 
19% had a reduction of hormonal overproduction after 34 months' mean. Two 
patients with STH-secreting adenomas had an endocrinologic recurrence, one with 
an ACTH-secreting adenoma radiologic recurrence, within 54 months. Reduction of 
visual acuity was seen in 4 patients and partial hypopituitarism in 3 patients. 
None of the patients developed brain radionecrosis or radiation-induced gliomas.
CONCLUSION: Stereotactically guided radiotherapy is effective and safe in the 
treatment of pituitary adenomas to improve local control and reduce hormonal 
overproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01535-8
PMID: 11483339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1287-94. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01519-x.

Thyroid dysfunction as a late effect in childhood medulloblastoma: a comparison 
of hyperfractionated versus conventionally fractionated craniospinal 
radiotherapy.

Ricardi U(1), Corrias A, Einaudi S, Genitori L, Sandri A, di Montezemolo LC, 
Besenzon L, Madon E, Urgesi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Regina Margherita Children's Hospital, 
Turin, Italy. umberto.ricardi@esanet.it

PURPOSE: Primary hypothyroidism is a common sequela of craniospinal radiotherapy 
in the treatment of childhood medulloblastoma. Due to the strong radiobiologic 
rationale, hyperfractionation can reduce the delayed effects of radiation 
injury.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The authors compared the incidence of thyroid dysfunction 
after conventionally fractionated radiotherapy (Group A, n = 20 patients) vs. 
hyperfractionated radiotherapy (Group B, n = 12 patients) in a group of 
pediatric patients with posterior fossa primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET).
RESULTS: The mean age at the time of tumor diagnosis was 7.4 years in Group A 
and 8.4 years in Group B. Thyroid function was evaluated yearly, with 
ultrasonographic examination every 2 years. The patients were followed after 
diagnosis for a mean of 10.8 years for Group A and 6.0 years for Group B. 
Approximately 80% of the Group A (16/20) and 33.3% of the Group B (4/12) 
patients developed primary hypothyroidism within a similar period after 
irradiation (4.2 vs. 3.5 years, respectively). Analysis by cumulative incidence 
function demonstrated a significant difference in the risk of developing thyroid 
dysfunction between these two groups of patients (p < 0.05). Ultrasonography 
showed reduced thyroid volume in 7 Group A patients and structural changes in 21 
patients (17 Group A, 4 Group B cases); a thyroid benign nodule was detected in 
2 Group A patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study findings suggest that the use of 
hyperfractionated craniospinal radiotherapy in the treatment of childhood 
medulloblastoma is associated with a lower risk of these patients' developing 
late thyroid dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01519-x
PMID: 11483340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1309-16. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01545-0.

Local excision and postoperative radiotherapy for distal rectal cancer.

Benson R(1), Wong CS, Cummings BJ, Brierley J, Catton P, Ringash J, Abdolell M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, United Kingdom, Cambridge, 
UK.

PURPOSE: To assess the outcome following local excision and postoperative 
radiotherapy (RT) for distal rectal carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventy-three patients received postoperative 
radiotherapy following local surgery for primary rectal carcinoma at Princess 
Margaret Hospital from 1983 to 1998. Selection factors for postoperative RT were 
patient preference, poor operative risks, and "elective" where conservative 
therapy was regarded as optimal therapy. Median distance of the primary lesion 
from the anal verge was 4 cm (range, 1--8 cm). There were 24 T1, 36 T2, and 8 T3 
lesions. The T category could not be determined in 5. Of 55 tumor specimens in 
which margins could be adequately assessed, they were positive in 18. RT was 
delivered using multiple fields by 6- to 25-MV photons. Median tumor dose was 50 
Gy (range, 38--60 Gy), and 62 patients received 50 Gy in 2.5-Gy daily fractions. 
The tumor volume included the primary with 3--5 cm margins. No patients received 
adjuvant chemotherapy. Median follow-up was 48 months (range, 10--165 months).
RESULTS: Overall 5-year survival and disease-free survival were 67% and 55%, 
respectively. Tumor recurrence was observed in 23 patients. There were 14 
isolated local relapses; 6 patients developed local and distant disease; and 3 
relapsed distantly only. For patients with T1, T2, and T3 lesions, 5-year local 
relapse-free rates were 61%, 75%, and 78%, respectively, and 5-year survival 
rates were 76%, 58%, and 33%, respectively. The 5-year local relapse-free rate 
was lower in the presence of lymphovascular invasion (LVI) compared to no LVI, 
52% vs. 89%, p = 0.03, or where tumor fragmentation occurred during local 
excision compared to no fragmentation, 51% vs. 76%, p = 0.02. Eleven of 14 
patients with local relapse only underwent abdominoperineal resection, 8 
achieved local control, and 4 remained cancer free. The ultimate local control, 
including salvage surgery, was 86% at 5 and 10 years. The 5-year colostomy-free 
rate was 82%. There were 2 patients who experienced RTOG Grade 3 late 
complications, and 1 with Grade 4 complication (bowel obstruction requiring 
surgery).
CONCLUSION: The local relapse rate for patients with T1 disease was high 
compared to other series of local excision and postoperative RT. Patients with 
LVI or tumor fragmentation during excision have high local relapse rates and may 
not be good candidates for conservative surgery and postoperative RT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(01)01545-0
PMID: 11483343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Gene. 2001 Jul 25;273(1):41-50. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(01)00569-8.

Two-domain hemoglobin gene of the water flea Moina macrocopa: duplication in the 
ancestral Cladocera, diversification, and loss of a bridge intron.

Kato K(1), Tokishita S, Mandokoro Y, Kimura S, Ohta T, Kobayashi M, Yamagata H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Environmental and Molecular Biology, Environmental Science 
Division, School of Life Science, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Science, 
1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0392, Japan.

Two cDNAs encoding the two-domain hemoglobin (Hb) chains of a crustacean 
Cladocera, Moina macrocopa, were cloned and their nucleotide (nt) sequences were 
determined. The amino acid (aa) sequences of both the gene products deduced from 
the nt sequences consisted of 348 residues and showed 98% identity with each 
other. These sequences together with the NH(2)-terminal aa sequences of the Hb 
chains determined after separation by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis showed 
that the Hb chains are synthesized as a secretory precursor with a signal 
peptide of 17 aa residues. The aa sequences of M. macrocopa Hb chains shared the 
following features with those of Daphnia Hb chains. Firstly, the signal peptide 
is followed by an NH(2)-terminal extension containing a threonine-rich sequence 
that might play a role in the multimerization of subunit chains. Secondly, the 
identity between the aa sequences of the first and second domains is 
exceptionally low. These facts suggest that duplication of the cladoceran Hb 
gene occurred before the divergence of families Moinidae and Daphniidae. 
Analysis of genomic DNA showed that the M. macrocopa Hb genes consist of two 
large repeated regions, encoding the first and second domains of Hb chains, 
respectively. The intron-exon organization of the first region of the M. 
macrocopa Hb genes was similar to that found in the Daphnia Hb genes, having the 
three-exon, two-intron structure characteristic of animal Hb genes. However, the 
intron bridging the two regions and the most downstream intron in the second 
region were missing in the Moina genes, providing a new example of intron loss. 
The following elements in the 5' flanking region were conserved in the Moina and 
Daphnia genes: (1) TATAAA, a typical TATA box sequence accompanied by a 
downstream sequence, GAAXAGCATCAGTT (the fourth residue X was G or A in Daphnia 
and absent in Moina); (2) CCAAT boxes, located upstream of the TATA box; (3) the 
binding sites for HIF-1 and GATA-1, also located upstream of the TATA box, that 
may be responsible for up-regulation of the cladoceran Hb genes under hypoxia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(01)00569-8
PMID: 11483359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Pediatrics. 2001 Aug;108(2):255-63. doi: 10.1542/peds.108.2.255.

Children with headache suspected of having a brain tumor: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis of diagnostic strategies.

Medina LS(1), Kuntz KM, Pomeroy S.

Author information:
(1)Neuroradiology, and Health Outcomes and Policy Section, Department of 
Radiology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. 
smedina@post.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical and economic consequences of 3 diagnostic 
strategies-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography followed by MRI 
for positive results (CT-MRI), and no neuroimaging with close clinical 
follow-up-in the evaluation of children with headache suspected of having a 
brain tumor. Three risk groups based on clinical variables were evaluated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model and cost-effectiveness 
analysis was performed incorporating the risk group prior probability, MRI and 
CT sensitivity and specificity, tumor survival, progression rates, and cost per 
strategy. Outcomes were based on quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained and 
incremental cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: For low-risk children with chronic nonmigraine headaches of >6 months' 
duration as the sole symptom (prior probability of brain tumor 0.01%), no 
neuroimaging with close clinical follow-up was less costly and more effective 
than the 2 neuroimaging strategies. For the intermediate-risk children with 
migraine headache and normal neurologic examination (prior probability of brain 
tumor 0.4%), CT-MRI was the most effective strategy but cost >$1 million per 
QALY gained compared with no neuroimaging. For high-risk children with headache 
of <6 months' duration and other clinical predictors of a brain tumor such as an 
abnormal neurologic examination (prior probability of brain tumor 4%), the most 
effective strategy was MRI, with cost-effectiveness ratio of $113 800 per QALY 
gained compared with no imaging.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that MRI maximizes QALY gained at a reasonable 
cost-effectiveness ratio in children with headache at high risk of having a 
brain tumor. Conversely, the strategy of no imaging with close clinical 
follow-up is cost saving in low-risk children. Although the CT-MRI strategy 
maximizes QALY gained in the intermediate-risk patients, its additional cost per 
QALY gained is high. In children with headache, appropriate selection of 
patients and diagnostic strategy may maximize quality-adjusted life expectancy 
and decrease costs of medical workup.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.108.2.255
PMID: 11483785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Cancer Control. 2001 Jul-Aug;8(4):337-43. doi: 10.1177/107327480100800405.

Endobronchial management of advanced lung cancer.

Simoff MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Allergy and Immunology, 
Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan 48202, USA. MSimoff1@hfhs.org

BACKGROUND: Patients with lung cancer often have bulky endobronchial disease, 
endobronchial extension, or airway compression. Many endobronchial treatment 
modalities are available to supplement traditional therapies for advanced lung 
cancer.
METHODS: The author reviews the use of several endobronchial treatment 
modalities that can augment standard antitumor therapies for advanced lung 
cancer, including rigid and flexible bronchoscopy, laser therapy, endobronchial 
prosthesis, and photodynamic therapy.
RESULTS: Since the early 1980s, technical advances in interventional techniques 
have enhanced symptom-free survival and quality of life for patients with lung 
cancer. Although interventional procedures are not definitive therapies, they 
often relieve the strangling sensation produced by airway occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Endobronchial interventions are important adjuncts in the 
multimodality management of lung cancer and should become standard 
considerations in the management of patients with advanced lung cancer. For 
patients with respiratory symptoms associated with their disease, these 
interventions provide symptom palliation and improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/107327480100800405
PMID: 11483887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2001 Aug 2;412(6846):543-5. doi: 10.1038/35087589.

The end of world population growth.

Lutz W(1), Sanderson W, Scherbov S.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, A-2361 
Laxenburg, Austria. lutz@iiasa.ac.at

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Aug 2;412(6846):490-1.

There has been enormous concern about the consequences of human population 
growth for the environment and for social and economic development. But this 
growth is likely to come to an end in the foreseeable future. Improving on 
earlier methods of probabilistic forecasting, here we show that there is around 
an 85 per cent chance that the world's population will stop growing before the 
end of the century. There is a 60 per cent probability that the world's 
population will not exceed 10 billion people before 2100, and around a 15 per 
cent probability that the world's population at the end of the century will be 
lower than it is today. For different regions, the date and size of the peak 
population will vary considerably.

DOI: 10.1038/35087589
PMID: 11484054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(7):681-4.

Economics of coronary artery bypass grafting. 1985.

Williams A.

Comment in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(7):679-80.

PMCID: PMC2566464
PMID: 11484733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2001 Jun;53(2-3):157-64. doi: 10.1078/0940-2993-00164.

Age-related incidence of spontaneous non-neoplastic lesions in a colony of 
Han:AURA hamsters.

Kamino K(1), Tillmann T, Boschmann E, Mohr U.

