Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Germany.

In toxicologic testing or experimental studies using animals, an adequate 
knowledge of spontaneously occurring lesions is required. 144 male and 184 
female untreated Syrian golden hamsters (strain Han:AURA) were kept for life 
under standard laboratory conditions and an investigation of non-neoplastic 
lesions in relationship to the lifespan was performed. The average lifespan of 
the males was 106 weeks and that of the female hamsters 97 weeks. While 
cartilage degeneration of the sternum and fatty degeneration of the femoral bone 
marrow occurred already in the first half of life with high incidence, the 
majority of lesions were observed in the second half. The most frequent 
non-neoplastic changes in various organs were fatty change, calcification, 
cystic change, hyperplasia and amyloidosis. Such spontaneous lesions were 
discussed in connection with the same alterations which can also be induced by 
chemical or hormonal agents.

DOI: 10.1078/0940-2993-00164
PMID: 11484834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2001 Jun;53(2-3):165-73. doi: 10.1078/0940-2993-00172.

M-CSF transgenic mice: role of M-CSF in infection and autoimmunity.

Bernier T(1), Halter R, Pau D, Rittinghausen S, Emmendörffer A.

Author information:
(1)Fraunhofer Institute of Toxicology and Aerosol Research, Department of 
Immunobiology, Hannover, Germany.

In this study, transgenic CD2F1 mouse lines (C-1.1-C-1.11) bearing a transgene 
encoding the murine growth factor M-CSF under the control of the liver specific 
alpha-1-antitrypsin gene promoter were generated. Transgenic C-1.4 mice showed 
elevated expression of transgene-encoded M-CSF in the liver and displayed a 
2-3-fold increase of M-CSF plasma levels and of macrophage numbers in the liver 
as compared with non-transgenic littermates. M-CSF transgenic mice showed 
increased resistance against sublethal i.v. infections with Listeria 
monocytogenes as compared with infected non-transgenic mice. To investigate the 
influence of M-CSF in murine systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), the M-CSF 
transgenic mouse line C-1.4 was bred into the genetic background of SLE-prone 
MRL+/+ mice. The resulting C-1.4/MRL transgenic mice bearing increased 
endogenous M-CSF levels showed consistently lower levels of anti-ss-DNA 
autoantibodies as compared with non-transgenic MRL+/+ mice. The life span of the 
C- 1.4/MRL transgenic mice and the severity of the disease in these mice 
remained unchanged as compared with their non-transgenic littermates. It is 
concluded that in addition to M-CSF further factors must be involved in the 
acceleration of the autoimmune disease in SLE prone MRL/lpr mice.

DOI: 10.1078/0940-2993-00172
PMID: 11484835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Scand J Public Health. 2001 Jun;29(2):104-12.

Predictive factors for disability pension--an 11-year follow up of young persons 
on sick leave due to neck, shoulder, or back diagnoses.

Borg K(1), Hensing G, Alexanderson K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Medicine and Public Health Science, Department of Health 
and Environment, Faculty of Health Sciences, Linköping, Sweden. 
karin.borg@ihm.liu.se

AIMS: Although back diagnoses are recurrent and the main diagnoses behind 
sickness absence and disability pension surprisingly few longitudinal studies 
have been performed. This study identifies predictive factors for disability 
pension among young persons initially sick-listed with back diagnoses.
METHODS: An 11-year prospective cohort study was conducted, including all 
individuals in a Swedish city who, in 1985, were aged 25-34 and sick-listed > or 
=28 days owing to neck, shoulder, or back diagnoses (n = 213). The following 
data was obtained: disability pension, emigration, and death for 1985-96, 
sickness absence for 1982-84, and demographics in 1985 regarding sex, income, 
occupation, marital status, diagnosis, socioeconomic group, and citizenship. Cox 
regression and life tables were used in the analyses.
RESULTS: In 1996, i.e. within 11 years, 22% of the individuals (27% of the women 
and 14% of the men) had been granted disability pension. The relative risk for 
disability pension was higher for women (2.4; p = 0.010), persons with foreign 
citizenship (3.6; p=0.009), and those who had had >14 sick-leave days per spell 
during the three years before inclusion, compared to those with <7 days/spell 
(3.1; p=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: This cohort of young persons proved to be a high-risk group for 
disability pension. Some of the factors known to predict long-time sickness 
absence also predict disability pension in a cohort of already sick-listed 
persons.

PMID: 11484862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Stroke. 2001 Aug;32(8):1739-44. doi: 10.1161/01.str.32.8.1739.

Life expectancies among survivors of acute cerebrovascular disease.

Hannerz H(1), Nielsen ML.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Occupational Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hh@ami.dk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke survivors represent a large group of persons for 
whom age-differentiated life expectancy tables do not exist. Such tables are 
vital for many purposes. The aim of the present study was to estimate age- and 
sex-specific life expectancies among individuals who have survived the acute 
phase (1 month) of a cerebrovascular disease (CVD).
METHODS: All patients who were registered with the Swedish National Hospital 
Discharge Registry with an admission for CVD (ICD codes 430 to 438) between 
January 1, 1989, and November 30, 1993, and were alive at the end of 1993 (N=103 
591) were followed for mortality rates in 1994. The same was done for 1983. 
Actuarial analyses were used to convert death rates into life expectancies.
RESULTS: Life expectancy among CVD survivors increased with time (1983 versus 
1994): 22.9% for men (95% CI 18.3% to 27.6%) and 12.9% for women (95% CI 9.1% to 
16.6%). The life expectancy ratio in 1983 between CVD survivors and the general 
population was 0.571 (95% CI 0.533 to 0.590) for men and 0.578 (95% CI 0.562 to 
0.592) for women. In 1994, the corresponding ratios were 0.641 (95% CI 0.629 to 
0.654) and 0.611 (95% CI 0.601 to 0.622). The life expectancy ratios between 
female and male survivors were 1.28 (95% CI 1.23 to 1.34) in 1983 and 1.18 (95% 
CI 1.15 to 1.21) in 1994. The prognosis for survivors who experienced occlusion 
and stenosis of the precerebral arteries was better than that for survivors of 
an intracerebral hemorrhage (P=4.4E-4) or occlusion of cerebral arteries 
(P=3.8E-8).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the prognosis has improved for all ages, stroke survivors 
still constitute a large group of persons with a low life expectancy compared 
with the general population.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.32.8.1739
PMID: 11486099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Am J Infect Control. 2001 Aug;29(4):203-6. doi: 10.1067/mic.2001.115686.

Personal hygiene and life expectancy improvements since 1850: historic and 
epidemiologic associations.

Greene VW(1).

Author information:
(1)Ben Gurion University, Beer Shiva, Israel.

DOI: 10.1067/mic.2001.115686
PMID: 11486254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Am J Infect Control. 2001 Aug;29(4):228-31. doi: 10.1067/mic.2001.115680.

Hygiene and health - the need for a holistic approach.

Exner M(1), Hartemann P, Kistemann T.

Author information:
(1)Hygiene-Institute of the University of Bonn, Germany.

The holistic principles of hygiene and public health have contributed 
substantially to an increase in life expectancy by more than 30 years and in 
life quality since the beginning of the 20th century. Frank, Pettenkofer, 
Nightingale, Pasteur, Lister, and Koch have been pioneering protagonists of the 
holistic approach to hygiene and public health. Socioeconomic development and 
related factors such as nutrition status and food hygiene, housing conditions, 
water supply and sewage systems, and education (including motivation for 
personal hygiene) have obviously been of more importance for life expectancy and 
life quality than progress in curative medicine, such as availability of 
microbial diagnosis, vaccination, and antibiotics. Today, new risk factors for 
infectious diseases arise, even in developed countries. These risk factors arise 
from emerging pathogens, antibiotic-resistant microorganisms, changing 
demographic patterns, an increasing amount of ambulatory and home care, 
socioeconomic and environmental changes, technical environments, worldwide 
distribution of food, and changing human behavior with a decreased awareness of 
microbial threats. These new challenges worldwide make a renewal of the holistic 
approach of hygiene and public health both urgent and necessary. On the basis of 
historic experience, policies that focus on surveillance and control, diagnosis, 
and therapy only can be assumed to be both insufficient and inefficient in 
controlling the new challenges in infectious diseases. Experiences in Germany 
with a holistic hospital hygiene strategy since 1976 provide encouragement for 
the promotion of holistic health concepts. Risk assessment, risk management, and 
risk communication are basic steps of a modern holistic strategy. Hygiene has 
the potential to act as a moderator of diverging positions of different 
disciplines within this renewed approach.

DOI: 10.1067/mic.2001.115680
PMID: 11486260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 2001;(280):23-32.

Non penetrating deep sclerectomy (NPDS) with SKGEL implant and/or 
5-fluorouracile (5-FU).

Detry-Morel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cliniques Universitaires St Luc Université Catholique de Louvain.

PURPOSE: To assess effectiveness and safety of DS with reticulated hyaluronic 
acid implant (SKGEL) and/or 5-Fluorouracile (5-FU).
MATERIAL-METHODS: 61 eyes (48 patients) (mean age: 64.5 +/- 10.5 years) with 
medically uncontrolled open angle glaucoma and comparable surgical risk failure 
were included in this retrospective non randomized study and were categorized 
into DS + SKGEL (10 eyes), DS + 5-FU (25 eyes) and DS + SKGEL + 5-FU 
simultaneously (26 eyes). The 3 groups were comparable in respect of age of 
patients, diagnosis, severity of VF defects, and bleb failure risk factors. All 
procedures were performed according to the Kozlov's and Mermoud's technique. 
Complete ocular examination was carried out preoperatively and at day 1, 7, at 
1, 2 and 3 months and every three months thereafter.
RESULTS: Mean follow up was 11 +/- 4.9 months and was significantly shorter in 
group C. For all 61 eyes, mean IOP was significantly decreased from 27.8 +/- 8.6 
mm Hg to 15.1 +/- 3.5 mm Hg. Complete (target IOP reached without medication or 
YAG laser goniopuncture) and qualified (target IOP reached with medication 
and/or YAG laser goniopuncture) final success rates were respectively of 54% and 
90%. Complete success probability was 95% at 6 months and 72% at 12 months. 
Qualified success probability increased to 89.5% at 12 months. The IOP results, 
the distribution of success rates and complications were similar within the 
first postoperative year whatever using SKGEL or intra-operative 5-FU 
application or both. The need for additional glaucoma medication and the 
percentage of YAG goniopuncture appeared to be lower in the SKGEL group. Success 
probability appeared to be improved in SKGEL group comparatively with the other 
2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: NPDS is a valid, effective and relatively safe alternative to 
trabeculectomy although adjunctive medications and/or Nd:YAG goniopuncture are 
frequently needed. Considering the limitations of our study, we can conclude 
that the IOP results, success rates and complications are similar within the 1st 
postoperative year whatever using peroperative 5-FU or SKGEL implant. A longer 
follow up is needed to confirm that SKGEL implant seems to improve the IOP 
control and the long term patency of the sclerectomy site by comparison with 
intra-operative application of 5-FU.

PMID: 11486461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 2001 Jun;35(3):233-8. doi: 10.1080/003655901750292024.

The relative prognosis of nodular and diffuse diabetic nephropathy.

Heaf JG(1), Løkkegaard H, Larsen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 
heaf@dadlnet.dk

MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred and forty-four diabetic patients with 
biopsy-proven diffuse diabetic glomerulosclerosis (DIF), 134 patients with 
nodular diabetic nephropathy (NOD) and 152 diabetic patients with 
nondiabetic-related morphology (104 chronic nephropathy, 48 primary GN) were 
followed for up to 12 years to determine the clinical prognosis.
RESULTS: Comparing the NOD patients with the DIF patients, there were more 
females (41% vs 26%, p < 0.05) and they were more often uremic at biopsy (24% vs 
12%, p < 0.01), but the age was similar (53.3 years vs 50.1 years, NS). There 
was no difference in diabetes type I and II incidence. Compared with the general 
population, the odds ratio (OR) for death was 7.2 (confidence interval 5.5-9.5) 
for DIF and 10.8 (8.5-13.7) for NOD. The OR for combined renal or patient death 
was: DIF 15.2 (11.7-19.7); NOD 24.6 (19.4-31.0). After correction for age, sex, 
and pre-existing uremia, NOD had a 1.70 (p < 0.01) times increased risk of death 
compared with DIF, and a 2.42 (p < 0.01) times increased risk of renal failure. 
The life expectancy for NOD was 4.0 years, and average time to dialysis was 2.1 
years. NOD prognosis was similar to other chronic nephropathy. The incidence of 
all atherosclerotic complications except AMI was twice as high in NOD than DIF. 
Diabetes type had no influence on prognosis. The estimated incidence of diabetic 
nephropathy was 56/mio/year.
CONCLUSION: Nodular diabetic nephropathy has a poorer prognosis than diffuse due 
to a higher rate of atherosclerotic and uremic complications.

DOI: 10.1080/003655901750292024
PMID: 11487078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2001 Aug;56(8):B340-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/56.8.b340.

Genes that prolong life: relationships of growth hormone and growth to aging and 
life span.

Bartke A(1), Coschigano K, Kopchick J, Chandrashekar V, Mattison J, Kinney B, 
Hauck S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale, IL 62901-6512, USA. abartke@siumed.edu

Mutant mice with a combined deficiency of growth hormone (GH), prolactin, and 
thyrotropin, and knockout mice with GH resistance, live longer than their normal 
siblings. The extension of life span in these animals is very large (up to 65%), 
reproducible, and not limited to any particular genetic background or husbandry 
conditions. In addition to demonstrating that genes control aging in mammals, 
these findings suggest that GH actions, growth, and body size may have important 
roles in the determination of life span. We describe the key phenotypic 
characteristics of long-living mutant and knockout mice, with an emphasis on 
those characteristics that may be related to delayed aging in these animals. We 
also address the broader topic of the relationship between GH, growth, 
maturation, body size, and aging, and we attempt to reconcile the 
well-publicized antiaging action of GH with the evidence that suppression of GH 
release or action can prolong life.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/56.8.b340
PMID: 11487592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Neurosci. 2001 Aug 15;21(16):6136-46. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.21-16-06136.2001.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor administration in postnatal life 
results in motor unit enlargement and continuous synaptic remodeling at the 
neuromuscular junction.

Keller-Peck CR(1), Feng G, Sanes JR, Yan Q, Lichtman JW, Snider WD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Overexpression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in 
embryonic muscle fibers causes dramatic hyperinnervation of neuromuscular 
junctions. However, it is not known whether GDNF induces the extra innervation 
by regulation of axonal branching and/or synaptic maintenance. To address this 
issue, high levels of circulating GDNF were established by administering 
subcutaneous injections starting either at birth or later and continuing for up 
to 40 d. Treatment with exogenous GDNF beginning in the first week, but not 
later, increased the number of axons converging at neuromuscular junctions. The 
effect of GDNF on the branching pattern of individual motor axons was determined 
by reconstructing labeled axonal arbors from transgenic mice expressing yellow 
fluorescent protein in subsets of motor neurons. Whereas, at postnatal day 8 
(P8) individual axons in control animals branched to sporadically innervate 
junctions within circumscribed regions of the muscle, motor units from GDNF 
injected animals had significantly more axonal branches and exhibited a high 
degree of localized arborization such that adjacent muscle fibers were often 
innervated by the same axon. Administration beginning at P0 and continuing 
through P40 prolonged multiple innervation of most fibers throughout the period 
of injection. Between P30 and P40 there was no net change in multiple 
innervation, although there was evidence of retraction bulbs, suggesting that 
axon extension and retraction were in equilibrium. We conclude that GDNF has a 
developmentally regulated effect on presynaptic branching and that sustained 
administration of GDNF induces a state of continuous synaptic remodeling.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.21-16-06136.2001
PMCID: PMC6763186
PMID: 11487637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Niger Postgrad Med J. 2001 Jun;8(2):99-103.

Central venous catheters for haemodialysis: a review.

Akoh JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, Derriford Hospital, Plymouth PL6 8DH, United 
Kingdom.

Indications for using central venous catheters (CVC) for haemodialysis include 
patients with: exhausted vascular access sites, no suitable vessels, failed 
peritoneal dialysis or short life expectancy. Catheter design and technology 
have changed in recent years to address the perennial problems of poor flow and 
infection. Permanent CVC offer a real alternative to arteriovenous access as 
11-22% of long-term haemodialysis patients use CVC as their permanent vascular 
access. Recent advances in catheter use including measures to avoid insertion 
complications are highlighted. CVC provide mean flow rates of 274-525 ml/min 
with a one year cumulative catheter survival of 47-93%. Tunnelled CVC provide a 
safe and effective long-term access for haemodialysis and are particularly 
suitable for use in developing countries. They are cheaper to maintain and 
remove the temptation to re-use disposable dialysis needles.

PMID: 11487912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Jun;34(3):192-5. doi: 10.1007/s003910170063.

Secondary prevention of breast cancer in older women.

Van Hoeyweghen RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Algemeen Ziekenhuis Sint-Jan A.V. Ruddershove 10 8000 Brugge, Belgium. 
raf-vanhoeyweghen@azbrugge.be

Periodic mammography is well studied and widely applied as a screening programme 
to reduce breast cancer-related mortality and morbidity in women aged 50 to 69 
years. Despite the fact that age is a major risk factor for breast cancer, no 
evidence-based data are available on survival benefit of screening in women 
older than 69 years. The most commonly cited guidelines for screening in breast 
cancer disagree on the upper age limit of the target population. This age limit 
is a matter of cost-effectiveness and is influenced by active life expectancy, 
risk for breast cancer, comorbidity and functional status. Benefit of screening 
also depends on adherence rate of elderly women in screening programmes and 
optimal treatment of identified tumours. In a selected population of elderly 
women, screening for breast cancer might be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910170063
PMID: 11487961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2001 Jun;218(6):463-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-16264.

[Conjunctival neuromas and prominent corneal nerve fibers as diagnostic 
indication of multiple endocrine disease].

[Article in German]

Tomida I(1), Rohrbach JM, Zierhut M, Dralle H.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Abt. 1, Universität Tübingen, Schleichstrasse 12-16, 
72076 Tübingen.

BACKGROUND: Multiple endocrine neoplasias (MEN-syndromes) represent diverse, 
mostly autosomal-dominant inherited, seldom sporadic diseases. MEN 2B-syndrome 
comprises medullary thyroid carcinoma, pheochromocytoma and mucosal neuromas.
PATIENT: A 30 year old male patient presented with bilateral chronic irritation 
of the ocular surface. The biomicroscopy revealed intraconjunctival worm-like 
alterations, prominent corneal nerves and nodules on the upper lid margins.
HISTOLOGY: The performed conjunctival biopsy showed nearly no goblet cells, but 
prominent intrastromal, immunohistochemical S100-positive neuromas.
RESULTS: The initiated investigations revealed bilateral multifocal medullary 
thyroid carcinoma and a left sited pheochromocytoma.
CONCLUSION: Conjunctival neuromas and prominent corneal nerves can be diagnostic 
for the MEN 2B-syndrom. Early diagnosis and prophylactic thyroidectomy are 
expected to improve the life expectancy even in asymptomatic gene-carriers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-16264
PMID: 11488016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Australas J Dermatol. 2001 Aug;42(3):149-8; quiz 159. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-0960.2001.00524.x.

Menopause and the skin.

Wines N(1), Willsteed E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, Australia. 
ninahocart@hotamil.com

Women live one-third of their lives in the post-menopausal state. Significant 
hormonal alterations occur at the time of menopause, leading to a range of 
physiological disorders affecting multiple organ systems in the body. The 
effects of menopause on the skin have been underresearched. Many skin changes 
occur at the time of menopause and the cutaneous effects of hormone replacement 
therapy are significant. Menopausal changes in hormones may alter the 
biomechanical properties of the skin and certain disorders are more common in 
menopausal women, such as lichen sclerosus, atrophic vulvovaginitis, flushing 
and dysaesthetic vulvodynia. Hair and oral changes may also be associated. As 
the average life expectancy increases, dermatologists need to be familiar with 
skin diseases affecting women in this age group.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-0960.2001.00524.x
PMID: 11488706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Eval Clin Pract. 2001 May;7(2):175-89. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2753.2001.00271.x.

Publishing web-based guidelines using interactive decision models.

Sanders GD(1), Nease RF Jr, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Department of Medicine, 
Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-6019, USA.

Commonly used methods for guideline development and dissemination do not enable 
developers to tailor guidelines systematically to specific patient populations 
and update guidelines easily. We developed a web-based system, ALCHEMIST, that 
uses decision models and automatically creates evidence-based guidelines that 
can be disseminated, tailored and updated over the web. Our objective was to 
demonstrate the use of this system with clinical scenarios that provide 
challenges for guideline development. We used the ALCHEMIST system to develop 
guidelines for three clinical scenarios: (1) Chlamydia screening for adolescent 
women, (2) antiarrhythmic therapy for the prevention of sudden cardiac death; 
and (3) genetic testing for the BRCA breast-cancer mutation. ALCHEMIST uses 
information extracted directly from the decision model, combined with the 
additional information from the author of the decision model, to generate global 
guidelines. ALCHEMIST generated electronic web-based guidelines for each of the 
three scenarios. Using ALCHEMIST, we demonstrate that tailoring a guideline for 
a population at high-risk for Chlamydia changes the recommended policy for 
control of Chlamydia from contact tracing of reported cases to a 
population-based screening programme. We used ALCHEMIST to incorporate new 
evidence about the effectiveness of implantable cardioverter defibrillators 
(ICD) and demonstrate that the cost-effectiveness of use of ICDs improves from 
$74 400 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained to $34 500 per QALY gained. 
Finally, we demonstrate how a clinician could use ALCHEMIST to incorporate a 
woman's utilities for relevant health states and thereby develop 
patient-specific recommendations for BRCA testing; the patient-specific 
recommendation improved quality-adjusted life expectancy by 37 days. The 
ALCHEMIST system enables guideline developers to publish both a guideline and an 
interactive decision model on the web. This web-based tool enables guideline 
developers to tailor guidelines systematically, to update guidelines easily, and 
to make the underlying evidence and analysis transparent for users.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2753.2001.00271.x
PMID: 11489042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Oct;9(5):441-7. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00022-9.

The cost-effectiveness of exclusion arteriography in extremity trauma.

Keen JD(1), Keen RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Cook County Hospital, 1835 West Harrison Street, 
Chicago, IL 60612-9985, USA.

The purpose of this study was to apply decision analysis to an established 
practice in vascular trauma diagnosis. While exclusion arteriography has 
resulted in an increase in positive surgical explorations, no formal analysis 
that determined either the cost-effectiveness of exclusion arteriography or the 
cost-effectiveness ratio has been reported in the literature. We created a 
decision model that compared exclusion arteriography and surgical exploration, 
the standard used prior to the development of extremity arteriography. The 
decision model used predominantly literature derived estimates for the 
prevalence of arterial injuries and the accuracy, complications, outcomes and 
costs of both arteriography and exploration. Exclusion arteriography is 
cost-effective. This finding is robust to changes in the major model variables. 
Compared to surgical exploration, exclusion arteriography is a superior strategy 
by dominance (more effective and costs less). Therefore, a cost-effectiveness 
ratio cannot be calculated. Under the base case assumption of 28% prevalence of 
arterial injury requiring operation, exclusion arteriography saves about $2000 
and adds 0.3 quality adjusted life years (QALY) for each patient. Decision 
analysis can be successfully applied to problems in vascular trauma diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00022-9
PMID: 11489646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2001 Oct;8(2):95-100. doi: 
10.1016/s1353-8020(01)00023-2.

Levodopa prolongs life expectancy and is non-toxic to substantia nigra.

Rajput AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, Royal University Hospital, 103 Hospital Drive, Saskatoon, 
SK, Canada S7N 0W8. rajputa@sdh.sk.ca

The primary objective of the study was to determine the effect of levodopa (LD) 
on human substantia nigra. The study included patients seen at the Movement 
Disorder Clinic, Saskatoon over a 32 year period. The evidence provided is based 
on epidemiological observations of 934 consecutive Parkinson syndrome (PS) 
patients assessed during 22 years and detailed studies of six patients including 
two autopsies. Life expectancy increased significantly with LD therapy. The 
prolonged survival was evident when the patients were treated during early stage 
of the illness. One parkinsonian patient with substantia nigra (SN) pathology 
who was extensively studied for 30 years, revealed significant slowing of the 
disease progression while on LD. Three essential tremor patients who received 24 
kg (26 years), 22 kg (21.5 years), and 8.5 kg (12.5 years) LD respectively, had 
no evidence of PS and one autopsy revealed normal SN. Two dopa-responsive 
dystonia patients who received LD 3 kg (11 years) and 17 kg (29 years) each had 
no evidence of PS and one autopsy revealed normal number of SN neurons. These 
observations indicate that LD is not toxic to human SN and are consistent with 
salutary effect of the drug on the SN in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1353-8020(01)00023-2
PMID: 11489674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Circulation. 2001 Aug 7;104(6):723-8. doi: 10.1161/hc0701.092217.

Electrical induction of ventricular fibrillation for resuscitation from 
postcountershock pulseless and asystolic cardiac arrests.

Leng CT(1), Berger RD, Calkins H, Lardo AC, Paradis NA, Halperin HR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins Medical 
Institutions, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md, USA. 
cleng@mail.jhmi.edu

BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence that defibrillation from prolonged 
ventricular fibrillation (VF) before CPR decreases survival. It remains unclear, 
however, whether harmful effects are due primarily to initial countershock of 
ischemic myocardium or to resultant postdefibrillation rhythms (ie, pulseless 
electrical activity [PEA] or asystole).
METHODS AND RESULTS: We induced 15 dogs into 12 minutes of VF and randomized 
them to 3 groups. Group 1 was defibrillated at 12 minutes and then administered 
advanced cardiac life support (ACLS); group 2 was allowed to remain in VF and 
was subsequently defibrillated after 4 minutes of ACLS; group 3 was 
defibrillated at 12 minutes, electrically refibrillated, and then defibrillated 
after 4 minutes of ACLS. All group 1 and 3 animals were defibrillated into 
PEA/asystole at 12 minutes. After 4 minutes of ACLS, group 2 and 3 animals were 
effectively defibrillated into sinus rhythm. The extension of VF in group 2 and 
3 subjects paradoxically resulted in shorter mean resuscitation times (251+/-15 
and 245+/-7 seconds, respectively, versus 459+/-66 seconds for group 1; P<0.05) 
and improved 1-hour survival (10 of 10 group 2 and 3 dogs versus 1 of 5 group 1 
dogs; Fisher's exact, P<0.005) compared with more conservatively managed group 1 
subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Precountershock CPR during VF appears more conducive to 
resuscitation than CPR during postcountershock PEA or asystole. The intentional 
induction of VF may prove useful in the management of PEA and asystolic arrests.

DOI: 10.1161/hc0701.092217
PMID: 11489782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. J Biol Chem. 2001 Oct 12;276(41):38036-43. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M105944200. Epub
 2001 Aug 6.

Polyamine regulation of ribosome pausing at the upstream open reading frame of 
S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase.

Law GL(1), Raney A, Heusner C, Morris DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, 98195-7350, 
USA.

Synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC), a key regulated 
enzyme in the pathway of polyamine biosynthesis, is feedback-controlled at the 
level of translation by spermidine and spermine. The peptide product of an 
upstream open reading frame (uORF) in the mRNA is solely responsible for 
polyamine regulation of AdoMetDC translation. Using a primer extension 
inhibition assay and in vitro protein synthesis reactions, we found ribosomes 
paused at or close to the termination codon of the uORF. This pause was greatly 
diminished with the altered uORFs' sequences that abolish uORF regulation in 
vivo. The half-life of the ribosome pause was related to the concentration of 
polyamines present but was unaffected by magnesium concentration. Furthermore, 
inhibition of translation initiation at a reporter gene placed downstream of the 
AdoMetDC uORF directly correlated with the stability of the ribosome pause at 
the uORF. These observations are consistent with a model in which regulation of 
ribosome pausing at the uORF by polyamines controls ribosome access to the 
downstream AdoMetDC reading frame.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M105944200
PMID: 11489903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Urol. 2001 Sep;166(3):803-11.

Genitourinary complications of sickle cell disease.

Bruno D(1), Wigfall DR, Zimmerman SA, Rosoff PM, Wiener JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urologic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC, USA.

PURPOSE: In the last half century the molecular biology, pathophysiology and 
natural history of sickle cell disease have been well defined. Sickle cell 
disease causes microvascular occlusion, which is manifested in most organ 
systems. The genitourinary tract is most commonly affected by hematuria, urinary 
tract infection and priapism but other more serious sequelae have been 
identified.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a computerized MEDLINE search from 1965 to 
the present and a bibliographic review of cross references. These references 
were analyzed for meaningful findings and case reports.
RESULTS: The diagnosis and management of sickle cell disease have advanced 
rapidly with a significant increase in the life expectancy of affected patients 
and recognition of a greater number of genitourinary complications. Renal 
function may be mildly altered or lost completely. Patients with sickle cell 
disease are at increased risk for urinary tract infection. Priapism is a painful 
complication of sickle cell disease that is poorly understood and challenging to 
treat and prevent. Testicular infarction has also been noted. Furthermore, renal 
medullary carcinoma, a highly lethal tumor, develops almost exclusively in young 
patients with sickle cell trait.
CONCLUSIONS: Heightened awareness of the genitourinary complications of sickle 
cell disease may prevent end stage disease, including renal failure and 
impotence. New forms of therapy for sickle cell disease, such as hydroxyurea, 
may prevent these complications in the future.

PMID: 11490223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Urol. 2001 Sep;166(3):851-5.

Prospective detection of clinically relevant prostate cancer in the prostate 
specific antigen range 1 to 3 ng./ml. combined with free-to-total ratio 20% or 
less: the Aarau experience.

Recker F(1), Kwiatkowski MK, Huber A, Stamm B, Lehmann K, Tscholl R.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Urology, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Institute of 
Pathology, Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Little is known about the incidence rate and clinical relevance of 
prostate cancer in a low prostate specific antigen (PSA) level. In a prospective 
PSA based screening study we investigated the incidence and clinicopathological 
features of prostate cancer that occurred within PSA range 1 to 3 ng./ml. when 
the free-to-total ratio was 0.20 or less.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Men participating in the Aarau, Switzerland, section of 
the European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer between October 
1998 and July 2000 were included in the study. As a side study, all men with PSA 
between 1 and 3 ng./ml. and free-to-total ratio 0.20 or less were invited to 
undergo further evaluation with ultrasound guided sextant prostate biopsy.
RESULTS: Overall, 168 (7.8%) participants fulfilled inclusion criteria. A total 
of 158 (94%) patients underwent prostate biopsy, and prostate cancer was 
detected in 17 (10.8%). There were no statistically significant differences 
between prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia in regard to patient 
age (60.7 versus 59.8 years), prostate volume (23.9 versus 23.0 cc), PSA (1.98 
versus 1.86 ng./ml.), free-to-total ratio (0.161 versus 0.160), PSA density 
(0.089 versus 0.076 ng./ml.) or PSA transition zone density (0.33 versus 0.24 
ng./ml., respectively). Median Gleason score was 5 on prostate biopsy versus 6 
on retropubic prostatectomy specimen. Of the 14 patients who underwent surgery 
there were positive lymph nodes in 1, stage pT3b Gleason 7 disease in 1, and 
pathologically organ confined Gleason 5 in 2, Gleason 6 in 5 and Gleason 7 in 5. 
Mean tumor volume was 1.01 cc (range 0.02 to 5.17). There were 2 (14.3%) 
insignificant (less than 0.2 cc, Gleason grade 3 or less), 1 (7.1%) minimal 
(less than 0.5cc, Gleason grade 3 or less) and 11 (78.6%) clinically relevant 
and potentially harmful cancers.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant number of prostate cancer cases diagnosed at 
PSA as low as 1 to 3 ng./ml. A majority of these tumors are clinically 
significant. This free-to-total ratio range may be helpful for identifying 
prostate cancer. The "window of opportunity" for detection of curable cancer may 
change in populations with higher life expectancy towards lower PSA. Lack of 
specificity and characterization of tumor aggressiveness remains an unsolved 
issue for PSA.

PMID: 11490232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1998 Mar;149(2):94-100.

[Treatment of polycythemia. II.--Comparison of hydroxyurea with pipobroman in 
294 patients less than 65 years of age].

[Article in French]

Najean Y(1), Rain JD, Lejeune F, Echard M, Fermand JP, Gruyer P, Brahimi S.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Nucléaire, Hôpital Saint-Louis, 1, avenue 
Claude-Vellefaux, 75475, Paris.

AIMS: To compare by a prospective study in low risk polycythemia vera (PV) 
patients alone two drugs: hydroxyurea and pipobroman. Toxicity, efficiency, and 
leukemogenic potential were studied.
PATIENTS: 294 patients with a documented PV, aged less than 65 years, have been 
included since 1980 in a prospective study comparing hydroxyurea and pipobroman. 
Blood cell counts were performed every two months and a clinical evaluation by a 
specialist was obtained every four or six months.
RESULTS: Hematologic toxicity of both drugs was higher than expected, requiring 
strict surveillance. These drugs were tolerated in some (gastric pain and 
diarrhea on pipobroman, buccal aphtosis and chronic leg ulcers on hydroxyurea), 
leading to a change of arm in 10% of the cases. Hydroxyurea did not control the 
megakaryocitic hyperplasia in 40% of the cases, which probably explains a high 
rate of progression to myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia in this arm. Both 
drugs were leukemogenic with an actuarial risk of about 15% at the 15th year, 
not significantly lower than that observed in the 32P treated patients. A 
significant risk of cutaneous malignancy was observed in the hydroxyurea arm. 
The mean expectancy of life cannot yet be accurately evaluated, but seems 
significantly lower than that of the reference population.
CONCLUSION: The treatment of PV by hydroxyurea or pipobroman has to account for 
these results less optimistic than those traditionally well-known to 
hematologists and internists.

PMID: 11490531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Geriatrics. 2001 Jul;56(7):24-6, 29-31, 35.

Prevention for the older woman. A practical guide to assessing physical and 
cognitive function.

Messinger-Rapport BJ(1), Thacker HL.

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Section of Geriatrics, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA.

Life expectancy of women is greater than that of men at every age. Thus, an 
older woman is more likely than a man to be living without a spouse and living 
alone. It is important in caring for an older woman to establish how well she is 
functioning physically and cognitively and in what activities she may need 
assistance. Given the high prevalence of dementia with advanced age, screening 
for dementia should be considered in women over age 75. Although their risk of 
suicide is lower, older women are more likely to be depressed than older men, 
regardless of race, ethnic background, or economic status. Late-life depression 
is treatable, and screening should be considered in the presence of a major life 
change, recent stroke, or MI.

PMID: 11490983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. WMJ. 2001;100(3):8-12, 78.

Men's health matters: a gender in crisis.

Alt R.

PMID: 11491041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Ann Med. 2001 Jul;33(5):328-36. doi: 10.3109/07853890109002086.

The 15D instrument of health-related quality of life: properties and 
applications.

Sintonen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Finland. 
harri.sintonen@helsinki.fi

The 15D is a generic, comprehensive, 15-dimensional, standardized, 
self-administered measure of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) that can be 
used both as a profile and single index score measure. This paper examines the 
acceptability, reliability, validity, discriminatory power and responsiveness to 
change of its health state descriptive system and valuation system and presents 
some examples of applications. As a profile measure on roughly comparable 
dimensions the 15D performs equally well as the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) 
and SF-20, in some respects even better, and clearly better than EQ-5D. The 
remaining nine to ten dimensions of the 15D provide a large reserve in terms of 
discriminatory power and responsiveness to change. The valuation system is based 
on an application of the multiattribute utility theory. The single index score 
(15D score) on a 0-1 scale, representing the overall HRQoL, is calculated from 
the health state descriptive system by using a set of population-based 
preference or utility weights. The 15D scores are shown to be highly reliable, 
sensitive and responsive to change, generalisable at least in Western-type 
societies, and particularly valid for deriving quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained for resource allocation purposes. The instrument is recommended 
by the Washington Panel and is available in several languages for clinical 
economic evaluation and population studies.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890109002086
PMID: 11491191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Ann Med. 2001 Jul;33(5):371-4. doi: 10.3109/07853890109002091.

Health state values from multiattribute utility instruments need correction.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. erik.nord@folkehelsa.no

Cost-utility analysis uses the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) as a measure of 
the benefit of health interventions. It presupposes the assignment of utility 
scores to different states of health on a scale from zero (dead) to unity 
(healthy). A number of so-called multiattribute utility (MAU) instruments are 
available for this purpose. Analysts who wish to use MAU instruments in economic 
evaluations of health programmes and technologies may improve their performance 
by conducting two different analyses: the first is a conventional cost-utility 
study, in which the utilities from MAU instruments are used as they stand, and 
the second is a study in which the utilities are transformed into numbers that 
also encapsulate concerns for giving priority to the worst off. The term 
'cost-value analysis' is used for the latter, broader approach. A figure is 
offered as a preliminary tool to help conduct the required transformations.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890109002091
PMID: 11491196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Clin Exp Obstet Gynecol. 2001;28(2):86-8.

Effect of fibroids on cumulative probability of pregnancy in women taking 
follicle maturing drugs without assisted reproductive technology.

Wang W(1), Check JH, Dietterich C, Lurie D.

Author information:
(1)The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School at Camden, Copper Hospital/University Medical Center, Department 
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine if the presence of uterine fibroids adversely affect in 
vivo conception rates.
METHODS: Pelvic ultrasound evaluation of the presence or absence of fibroids in 
consecutive infertility patients not treated with assisted reproductive 
technology in a two-year period. Conception outcome noted. Data analyzed 
according to the presence or absence of fibroids.
RESULTS: No difference in cumulative probability of pregnancy after five months 
was seen in patients with or without the presence of fibroids. There were no 
confounding variables found that could have skewed the pregnancy rates in one 
direction or the other.
CONCLUSION: In general the presence of fibroids do not adversely affect 
conception outcome for in vivo pregnancies. However, since the majority of the 
fibroids were small (< 6 cm) and were not submucosal and did not compress the 
endometrial cavity, larger studies are needed to address specific subtypes and 
circumstances on pregnancy outcome.

PMID: 11491381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Oncogene. 2001 Jul 27;20(33):4581-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.onc.1204610.

A rapid bioinformatic method identifies novel genes with direct clinical 
relevance to colon cancer.

Brett D(1), Kemmner W, Koch G, Roefzaad C, Gross S, Schlag PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics, Max Delbruck Centre (MDC) for Molecular 
Medicine, Robert-Rössle Strasse 10, D-13125 Berlin, Germany.

Identifying genes whose differential expression affect the survival of patients 
after primary tumor surgery is a major aim of clinical cancer research. To 
address this issue we combined rapid bioinformatic search algorithms with 
quantitative RT-PCR in a panel of clearly defined cases of colorectal carcinomas 
with detailed patient histories. Search algorithms were written that identified 
Expressed Sequence Tags (ESTs) from the Unigene EST collection of putative open 
reading frames (ORFs). Expression ratios of healthy to cancerous tissue of each 
Unigene ORF were calculated. The first 35 candidates arising from bioinformatic 
searches were examined for mRNA expression in a panel of 20 well documented 
cases of colon cancer. Four of these 35 genes showed significant correlations 
with histopathological parameters. Therefore, their expression was further 
analysed by quantitative RT-PCR in a larger patient cohort. Kaplan-Meier/log 
rank statistical tests of up to 49 patients in three of the four genes 
demonstrated significant association of gene expression with poor survival. All 
four genes demonstrated a strong association with metastatic tumor progression. 
Expression of the genes was localized to epithelial cells by in-situ 
hybridization.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1204610
PMID: 11494154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Arch Esp Urol. 2001 Jun;54(5):423-8.

[Renal cancer: descriptive analysis of a series of 267 intervened cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina López RA(1), Congregado Ruiz CB, Campoy Martínez P, Morales López A, 
Sánchez Gómez E, pascual del Pobil Moreno JL.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Uro-Oncología, Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario Virgen 
del Rocío, Sevilla, España.

OBJECTIVE: To present the results of a descriptive analysis of 267 surgically 
treated renal tumors.
METHODS: From January 1986 to October 1999, 267 patients (153 males and 114 
females) with renal tumor were treated in our department. All data were 
introduced into the Access data base program and analyzed using the SPSS 
software. Descriptive analysis was performed and life expectancy was calculated 
with the Kaplan-Meier survival curve. Mean follow-up was 42.72 months.
RESULTS: 56.4% were in the right and 43.6% were in the left kidney. 41.2% of the 
cases were incidentally discovered. In the symptomatic patients, the most common 
presenting feature was hematuria (51.8%). Radical nephrectomy was performed in 
94.2%, partial in 3.1% and tumor resection in 2.7%. The lumbar approach was used 
in 75.5% of the cases. In regard to the histology, 88.7% were carcinomas. Clear 
cell was the most frequent cell type (91.5%). By grade, 55.8% were GI, 32.9% GII 
and 11.3% were GIII. By stage (according to the 1992 TNM classification), 64.3% 
were stage I, 15.4% stage II, 17% stage III and 3.3% stage IV. 80.5% showed no 
vascular involvement. The 5-year overall survival was 71.93% (mean 114 months; 
median 167 months). Currently, 76% of the patients are alive.
CONCLUSIONS: Distribution by sex in our series was different to that reported in 
most of the studies. The tumor was incidentally discovered in a high proportion 
of the cases. The lumbar access was the most widely used surgical approach. The 
overall survival is similar to that reported by other groups.

PMID: 11494714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim (1993). 2001 Apr;18(2):42-50, 62.

[The orthodontic treatment of children with disabilities].

[Article in Hebrew]

Chaushu S(1), Shapira J, Becker A.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Orthodontics, Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Dental Medicine, 
Founded by the Alpha Omega Fratemity, Jerusalem.

Due to the medical progress in the past decades, the life expectancy and quality 
of the physically and/or mentally disabled children have been much improved. 
While this has facilitated their entry into society, it has also created greater 
demands on our profession, from those who care for them. A displeasing dental 
appearance may have a significant emotional impact on an individual's well being 
and can bias judgments of social acceptability, ability and personality. Gross 
misplacement of the teeth occurs more often and with much greater severity in 
the disabled child than in the general population. The increased concern for 
facial appearance and oral functions has generated an increased demand for 
orthodontic treatment, but the difficulties imposed by the handicapping 
conditions have made many practitioners believe that these patients are not 
amenable to treatment. At the Center for the Treatment of Craniofacial Anomalies 
in the Orthodontic Department of the Hadassah School of Dental Medicine, 
Jerusalem we have been treating children with disabilities for several years. An 
investigation of the referral patterns of our patients has revealed ignorance of 
dentists, physicians and social workers of what can and may be done to improve 
the dental and facial appearance of these children. This finding was the 
principle reason for this article, in which we will show how successful delivery 
of treatment is possible for many of the disabled.

PMID: 11494808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2001 Aug;36(8):870-6. doi:
10.1080/003655201750313414.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon alfa-2b with and without ribavirin as therapy 
for chronic hepatitis C in Sweden.

Sennfält K(1), Reichard O, Hultkrantz R, Wong JB, Jonsson D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, University of Linköping, Sweden. 
karin.sennfalt@ihm.liu.se

BACKGROUND: Recent trials have shown that treatment with a combination of 
interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin results in sustained loss of detectable 
hepatitis C-virus (HCV) RNA in a higher proportion of patients than treatment 
with interferon alone. Combination therapy, however, is two to three times as 
expensive as monotherapy.
METHODS: Based on data from recent randomized clinical trials and a previously 
published decision model, we developed a Markov model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of initial combination therapy with interferon and ribavirin 
versus interferon alone for previously untreated patients with chronic HCV 
infection in Sweden. Clinical praxis and quality adjustments were based on 
expert estimates and costs were gathered from different health care providers in 
Sweden.
RESULTS: Combination therapy for 24 or 48 weeks, compared to interferon alone, 
prolonged quality adjusted life expectancy by 0.5 to 1.1 years at marginal 
