regions of the CNS showed c-fos mRNA expression in the immature animal than 
adults, suggesting that repetitive seizures in the immature animal activated a 
greater percentage of the brain. Compared with the effects of a single seizure, 
repetitive seizures resulted in less 2DG labeling in most regions of the brain 
(except the hippocampus); in the immature brain this difference was more 
distinct than in adults. The consequences of repetitive seizures in the immature 
animal results in distinctly different seizure behavior and neuronal activity 
pattern (c-fos expression) than that observed in the mature animal.

DOI: 10.1016/s0920-1211(01)00285-6
PMID: 11518622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2001 Jul;56(2):484-91. doi: 10.1265/jjh.56.484.

[Recent trends in mortality, years of life lost (YLLs), and disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) attributable to tobacco in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Shibuya K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, Teikyo University School of 
Medicine, 2-11-1, Kaga, Itabashi, Tokyo 173-8605. Kenjibdu@msn.com

To assess recent trends in mortality and disease burden from tobacco in Japan, 
the present study estimated the number of deaths, years of life lost (YLLs) and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attributable to tobacco for the years 
1985 and 1995. Since smoking prevalence is a very poor measure of population 
exposure to tobacco, this study employed an alternative measure of the 
attributable fractions based on excess lung cancer mortality. It is suggested 
that there was a significant increase in both the absolute numbers and 
age-standardized rates of tobacco-attributed mortality and disease burden over 
the decade, in particular from lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. In 1995, tobacco already accounted for 12% of total mortality, 16% of 
total male mortality and 7% of total female mortality. The burden of disease 
attributable to tobacco amounted to 10% of the total YLLs and 7% of total DALYs, 
suggesting that tobacco is probably a single major risk factor of mortality and 
morbidity in Japan.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.56.484
PMID: 11519182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2001 Aug 15;164(4):590-6. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.164.4.2003167.

The impact of aging and smoking on the future burden of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease: a model analysis in the Netherlands.

Feenstra TL(1), van Genugten ML, Hoogenveen RT, Wouters EF, Rutten-van Mölken 
MP.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) causes extensive disability, 
primarily among the elderly. On the World Health Organization ranking list of 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), COPD rises from the twelfth to the fifth 
place from 1990 to 2020. The purpose of this study is to single out the impact 
of changes in demography and in smoking behavior on COPD morbidity, mortality, 
and health care costs. A dynamic multistate life table model was used to compute 
projections for the Netherlands. Changes in the size and composition of the 
population cause COPD prevalence to increase from 21/1,000 in 1994 to 33/1,000 
in 2015 for men, and from 10/ 1,000 to 23/1,000 for women. Changes in smoking 
behavior reduce the projected prevalence to 29/1,000 for men, but increase it to 
25/ 1,000 for women. Total life years lost increase more than 60%, and DALYs 
lost increase 75%. Costs rise 90%; smokers cause approximately 90% of these 
costs. The model demonstrates the unavoidable increase in the burden of COPD, an 
increase that is larger for women than for men. The major causes of this 
increase are past smoking behavior and the aging of the population; changes in 
smoking behavior will have only a small effect in the nearby future.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.164.4.2003167
PMID: 11520721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Blood. 2001 Sep 1;98(5):1312-20. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.5.1312.

The predictive value of hierarchical cytogenetic classification in older adults 
with acute myeloid leukemia (AML): analysis of 1065 patients entered into the 
United Kingdom Medical Research Council AML11 trial.

Grimwade D(1), Walker H, Harrison G, Oliver F, Chatters S, Harrison CJ, Wheatley 
K, Burnett AK, Goldstone AH; Medical Research Council Adult Leukemia Working 
Party.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University College London Hospitals and Medical 
School, London, United Kingdom.

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in older adults carries a poor prognosis, and the 
optimum treatment remains to be determined. In younger patients, treatment 
stratification is frequently based upon diagnostic karyotype, which was the most 
important prognostic factor in the UK Medical Research Council (MRC) AML10 
trial. Considered here is whether karyotype is also predictive in older adults; 
this is done by studying 1065 cases from MRC AML11 (median age, 66 years). Three 
prognostic groups were distinguished on the basis of response to induction 
therapy and overall survival (OS). Those with t(15;17), t(8;21), or inv(16) 
composed the favorable risk group. Overall, these abnormalities predicted a 
superior complete remission (CR) rate (72%), reflecting relatively low levels of 
resistant disease (RD) (8%), and lower relapse risk (RR) (56%) associated with 
superior OS (34% at 5 years). Normal karyotype (CR, 63%; RD, 17%; RR, 78%; OS, 
15%) and other noncomplex abnormalities (CR, 53%; RD, 32%; RR, 85%; OS, 10%) 
composed the intermediate group; while complex karyotype predicted an extremely 
poor prognosis (CR, 26%; RD, 56%; RR, 91%; OS, 2%). Combining MRC AML10 and 
AML11 (n = 2677) revealed that the most favorable changes were rarer in older 
patients (younger than 55 years, 24%; 55 years or older, 7%), while complex 
abnormalities were more common (6% vs 13%). This study suggests that 
hierarchical cytogenetic classification identifies biologically distinct subsets 
of AML that are represented in all age groups. Furthermore, it highlights the 
importance of karyotype as a critical independent determinant of outcome in 
older patients with AML, providing a potential framework for stratified 
treatment approaches.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.5.1312
PMID: 11520776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Blood. 2001 Sep 1;98(5):1326-31. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.5.1326.

Rituximab therapy of patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Huhn D(1), von Schilling C, Wilhelm M, Ho AD, Hallek M, Kuse R, Knauf W, Riedel 
U, Hinke A, Srock S, Serke S, Peschel C, Emmerich B; German Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukemia Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine/Hematology and Oncology, Charité Campus 
Virchow-Klinikum, Humboldt Universität Berlin, Germany. 
dieter.parczany@charite.de

Comment in
    Blood. 2002 Feb 1;99(3):1096-7.

Rituximab (IDEC-C2B8) is a chimeric antibody that binds to the B-cell surface 
antigen CD20. Rituximab has significant activity in follicular non-Hodgkin 
lymphomas. Much less is known about the effects in chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL). We have initiated a phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
rituximab in patients with CD20+ pretreated CLL. To avoid the 
rituximab-associated toxicity, we restricted the tumor cell load, as measured by 
the number of circulating lymphocytes and the spleen size, in the first 2 
cohorts of patients included in the study. Patients received 4 intravenous 
infusions of 375 mg/m2 once a week over a period of 1 month. Of the 28 patients 
evaluable for response, 7 patients showed a partial remission (National Cancer 
Institute criteria) lasting for a median of 20 weeks, with 1 patient still in 
remission after 71 weeks. Based on lymphocyte counts only, we found at least a 
50% reduction of lymphocyte counts lasting for at least 4 weeks in 13 (45%) of 
29 patients. Fifteen patients from 3 institutions were monitored for the 
immunophenotype profile of lymphocyte subsets. The number of CD5+CD20+ cells 
decreased significantly and remained low until day 28 after therapy. T-cell 
counts were not affected. With the exception of one rituximab-related death, 
adverse events in the remaining patients were mild. The results suggest that 
rituximab has clinical activity in pretreated patients with B-CLL. Toxicity is 
tolerable. Response duration after withdrawal of rituximab is rather short. 
Therefore, other modes of application and the combination with other agents need 
to be tested.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.5.1326
PMID: 11520778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2001 Aug;185(2 Suppl):S13-23. doi:
10.1067/mob.2001.117414.

Current perspectives on benefits and risks of hormone replacement therapy.

Burkman RT(1), Collins JA, Greene RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tufts University School of Medicine, 
Boston, MA USA.

Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen alone or with added progestin relieves 
menopausal symptoms and physical changes associated with depleted endogenous 
estrogen levels. Estrogen replacement has also demonstrated a clear benefit in 
the prevention of osteoporosis. Hormone replacement therapy with added progestin 
maintains spinal bone density, protects against postmenopausal hip fractures, 
and provides these benefits even when therapy is started after age 60. More 
recently, additional benefits have emerged. Current estrogen and hormone 
replacement therapy users have a 34% reduction in the risk of colorectal cancer 
and a 20% to 60% reduction in the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Until recently, 
the body of evidence indicated that hormone replacement therapy with estrogen 
only reduced cardiovascular disease risk by 40% to 50% in healthy patients; 
whether the findings of 3 ongoing trials will change this conclusion is pending 
availability of the final results. The many benefits of estrogen and hormone 
replacement therapy must be weighed against a slight increase in the risk of 
breast cancer diagnosis with use for 5 or more years, but which disappears 
following cessation of therapy. Overall, estrogen and hormone replacement 
therapy improves the quality of life and increases life expectancy for most 
menopausal women.

DOI: 10.1067/mob.2001.117414
PMID: 11521118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Can Respir J. 2001 Jul-Aug;8(4):231-2.

Eighteen month follow-up of arterial blood gases in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease.

Kokori I, Karetsi E, Gourgoulianis KI, Molyvdas PA.

PMID: 11521137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Soc Biol. 2000 Spring-Summer;47(1-2):135-45. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2000.9989015.

Canadian Indian mortality during the 1980s.

Trovato F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Population Research Laboratory, The University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2H4.

This study concerns itself with an investigation of general and cause-specific 
mortality differentials between Canadian Registered Indians (a subset of all 
aboriginals) and the larger Canadian population over two points in time, 1981 
and 1991. Multivariate analyses are executed separately across four segments of 
the life cycle: adulthood, infancy, early childhood and late childhood. With 
respect to adults, Indians share relatively high rates of suicide, homicide and 
accidental causes of death; over time, their conditional risks of death due to 
cancer and circulatory afflictions have gone up significantly. Mortality 
disadvantages for the Indians are also pronounced in infancy, early childhood 
(ages 1-4) and late childhood (ages 5-14). Suicide, accidents, and violence 
constitute serious problems among 5-14 year olds, while infectious/parasitic, 
respiratory and circulatory complications, plus accidents and violence, are 
principle killers in infancy. For children aged 1-4, respiratory problems and 
accidents/violence are prime causes of premature death. This less-than-optimal 
mortality profile is reflective of persistent problems associated with prolonged 
socioeconomic marginalization. The temporal pattern of change in 
chronic/degenerative disease mortality among adult Indians suggests a movement 
of this population toward a mature stage of epidemiological transition.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2000.9989015
PMID: 11521453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Diabetes Complications. 2001 Sep-Oct;15(5):285-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1056-8727(01)00153-2.

Type 1 diabetes with no diabetic complications, 62 years later.

Feldman-Billard S(1), Limon S, Morin Y, Altman JJ.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, CHNO des Quinze-Vingts, 28 rue de Charenton, 
Paris 75012, France.

We report a type 1 diabetes in an 88-year-old female patient discovered in 1938 
at the age of 26. She was promptly put on insulin, which lasted 62 years so far. 
This patient was highly remarkable because she portrayed a historical case of 
insulin-treated diabetes diagnosed in 1938. The absence of microangiopathy and 
specially retinopathy was quite singular, all the more reason that her diabetes 
was ill-controlled. Environmental or genetic factors may, one day, explain this 
unusual favourable outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/s1056-8727(01)00153-2
PMID: 11522504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Ear Nose Throat J. 2001 Aug;80(8):576-8, 580, 582 passim.

Detection of sinus-induced orbital mycosis with standardized orbital 
ultrasonography: a case report.

Kaplan DM(1), Briscoe D, Niv A, Gatot A, Leiberman A, Fliss DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Soroka Medical Center and 
Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheva, Israel. dnkaplan@hotmail.com

Fungal involvement of the paranasal sinuses is frequently observed in the 
immunocompromised host, and it can become life-threatening if it is not 
diagnosed. Although the definitive diagnosis is made by tissue biopsy and 
culture, imaging is of vital importance in the clinical workup and in planning 
treatment. We present a case of fulminant ethmoidal sinusitis caused by 
Aspergillus flavus with orbital involvement in an immunocompromised patient. 
Standard computed tomography of the paranasal sinuses was complemented by the 
use of standardized orbital ultrasonography, which was able to identify the 
intraorbital extension. We discuss the role of standardized orbital 
ultrasonography as a complementary imaging modality in the diagnosis of fungal 
sinusitis and in the assessment of local extension. To the best of our 
knowledge, the role of SOU in diagnosing an orbital extension of a fungal 
infection of the paranasal sinuses has not been previously discussed in the 
literature.

PMID: 11523477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Exp Appl Acarol. 2001;25(3):187-202. doi: 10.1023/a:1010651509355.

Biology, life table and host specificity of the mushroom pest, Brennandania 
lambi (Acari: Pygmephoroidea).

Ga JR(1), Zou P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Landscape and Environmental Science, School of Agriculture, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. gao@ksu.edu

Biology and life table parameters of Brennandania lambi (Krczal) were studied at 
different temperatures while feeding on white mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) 
mycelium cultured on mushroom compost. The duration of egg and larva 
development, preoviposition and oviposition period, female longevity, and the 
time to 50% mortality declined as temperature increased from 16 to 28 degrees C. 
The threshold temperature of development (female) was 9 degrees C and the 
thermal constant for completion of development (female) was 195 day-degrees. At 
16, 20. 24 and 28 degrees C, the total fecundity (eggs/female) was 71, 67, 66 
and 57, respectively and the daily fecundity rate (eggs/female/day) was 5.6, 
8.7, 8.7 and 9.1, respectively. The sex ratio (female/male) ranged from 1.9 to 
2.1 at 16-28 degrees C. At 16, 20, 24 and 28 degrees C, the intrinsic rate of 
natural increase (rm) was 0.11, 0.18, 0.22 and 0.27, respectively, and the 
population doubling time was 6.1. 3.9. 3.2 and 2.5 days, respectively. All life 
stages of the mite died when exposed to 35 degrees C constant temperature for 
24h. or to 32 degrees C constant temperature for 12 days or to 31-35 degrees C 
(average 32.9 degrees C) ambient temperature for 4 days. Brennandania lambi 
completed development only when fed on Ag. bisporus mycelium growing on mushroom 
compost. It could not survive on mushroom mycelia of Auricularia auricula. Au. 
polytricha, Ganoderma lucidum, Hericium erinaceus, Lentinus edodes, Pleurotus 
ostreatus, P. sajor-caju and Tremella juciformis.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010651509355
PMID: 11523915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Anesth Analg. 2001 Sep;93(3):573-80. doi: 10.1097/00000539-200109000-00009.

The effect of perioperative aspirin therapy in peripheral vascular surgery: a 
decision analysis.

Neilipovitz DT(1), Bryson GL, Nichol G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
dneilipovitz@ottawahospital.on.ca

Patients who undergo infrainguinal revascularization surgery are at increased 
risk for perioperative thrombotic complications. Aspirin decreases thrombotic 
events in the nonoperative setting; however, aspirin is often discontinued to 
avoid perioperative hemorrhagic complications. We used a decision analysis to 
determine whether aspirin should be discontinued before infrainguinal 
revascularization surgery. Two strategies were compared: aspirin cessation 2 wk 
before surgery and aspirin continuation throughout the perioperative period. 
Clinical events examined included myocardial infarction, thrombotic 
cerebrovascular accident, hemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident, gastrointestinal 
hemorrhage, and incisional hemorrhagic complications. Event rates and effect of 
aspirin were obtained by using MEDLINE. The outcomes were perioperative 
mortality, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy. According to 
the model, continued aspirin use decreased perioperative mortality rates from 
2.78% to 2.05%. Continued aspirin use increased life expectancy from 14.83 to 
14.89 yr and increased quality-adjusted life expectancy from 14.72 to 14.79 yr. 
Aspirin increased the number of hemorrhagic complications by 2.46%, primarily 
because of an increased incidence of non-life-threatening complications.

DOI: 10.1097/00000539-200109000-00009
PMID: 11524320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Fortune. 2001 Sep 3;144(4):54.

An Rx for Russia: more kids, less booze.

Murphy C.

PMID: 11524941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Eur J Clin Invest. 2001;31 Suppl 2:18-25. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2362.2001.0310s2018.x.

Ambulatory blood pressure in heart failure.

Jamieson MJ(1), Jamieson C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Health Science Center San 
Antonio, 78249-6205, USA. jamieson@uthscsa.edu

Ambulatory blood-pressure monitoring (ABPM) is accepted in the evaluation and 
management of hypertension. The use of ABPM in heart failure has received 
considerably less attention. Many patients with advanced heart failure 
experience disabling fatigue, orthostatic dizziness and symptoms of coronary and 
cerebrovascular insufficiency that may relate to periods of hypotension. These 
may be exacerbated by vasodilator drug therapy and may be difficult to evaluate 
by casual clinic recordings. ABPM in heart failure may help in the following: 
(i) evaluating time-dependent pharmacodynamic drug effects, such as peak and 
end-of-dose phenomena, tolerance and rebound; (ii) titrating ACE inhibitors and 
other drugs to highest-tolerated doses; and (iii) correlating circadian 
blood-pressure profiles with symptoms, quality of life, severity of heart 
failure, progression of ventricular and renal dysfunction, risks of stroke and 
myocardial infarction, and life expectancy. Devices for ABPM have been beset by 
problems of inaccuracy and unreliability. Standards for their manufacture and 
sale (including bench tests of accuracy against sphygmomanometry and 
intra-arterial recordings, and field tests of reliability) have been devised 
independently by several agencies, including the British Hypertension Society 
(BHS) and US Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI). 
A joint BHS/AAMI set of guidelines is in preparation. These guidelines emphasize 
the suitability of ABPM devices for hypertensive patients and those under 
general anesthesia, and may not be applicable to ambulant individuals with heart 
failure and blood pressures at or below the lower end of the evaluated ranges. 
Prospective studies of the accuracy and reliability of ABPM devices, their 
clinical utility and research potential should be undertaken in patients with 
heart failure before their informal and uncontrolled use in this population 
becomes widespread.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2362.2001.0310s2018.x
PMID: 11525234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Periodontol. 2001 Aug;72(8):1113-23. doi: 10.1902/jop.2001.72.8.1113.

A comparison of the success of root resected molars and molar position implants 
in function in a private practice: results of up to 15-plus years.

Fugazzotto PA.

BACKGROUND: When faced with a furcated molar, today's clinician must decide 
between a number of treatment options, including root resection, tooth removal, 
and implant placement. This paper assesses the results in one private clinical 
practice of root resection and subsequent restoration or molar implant placement 
and subsequent restoration. Clinical considerations in treatment selection are 
discussed.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of treated patients was carried out by 
examining active and inactive patient charts. When patients had discontinued 
therapy, every effort was made to determine the reason for leaving the private 
practice, so as to assess the impact of previously undocumented treatment 
failure on the statistics in question.
RESULTS: A total 701 root resected molars and 1,472 molar implants were 
evaluated after > or = 15 and 13 years in function, respectively. Resection of 
the distal root of a mandibular molar demonstrated the lowest success rate 
(75%). All other success rates for various root resected molars in function 
ranged from 95.2% to 100%. Lone standing implants in second molar positions 
demonstrated the lowest success rate (85%). All other implant use in molar 
positions demonstrated a success rate ranging from 97.0% to 98.6%. Root resected 
molars and molar implants demonstrated the highest degree of failure when they 
were lone standing terminal abutments. Seven out of 23 (30.4%) root resected 
molar failures, and 17 of 45 (37.8%) of the molar implant failures were 
associated with untreated parafunction. Cumulative success rates were 96.8% for 
root resected molars and 97.0% for molar implants. Success and failure are 
discussed by tooth and/or implant position, and resected root, where applicable. 
Possible ramifications of these findings upon treatment planning are also 
reviewed.
CONCLUSIONS: Both molar root resection and appropriate restoration and molar 
implant placement and restoration demonstrated a high degree of success in 
function. However, this success rate is markedly affected when either the root 
resected molar or molar implant is a lone standing terminal abutment. Care must 
be taken to choose the appropriate treatment modality for a given patient 
scenario.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2001.72.8.1113
PMID: 11525447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Evolution. 2001 Jul;55(7):1308-14. doi: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00653.x.

Disease diversity and human fertility.

Guégan JF(1), Thomas F, Hochberg ME, de Meeûs T, Renaud F.

Author information:
(1)Unité Mixte de Recherche, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique-Institut de Recherche pour le Développement 9926, Centre I.R.D. de 
Montpellier, France. guegan@cepm.mpl.ird.fr

The existence of parasitic constraints on the evolution of life-history traits 
in free-living organisms has been demonstrated in several plant and animal 
species. However, the association between different diseases and human traits is 
virtually unknown. We conducted a comparative analysis on a global scale to test 
whether the diversity of human diseases, some of them responsible for high 
incidences of morbidity and mortality, were associated with host life-history 
characteristics. After controlling for direct confounding effects exerted by 
historical, spatial, economic, and population patterns and their interactions, 
our findings show that human fertility increases with the diversity and 
structure of disease types. Thus, disease control may not only lower the costs 
associated with morbidity, but could also contribute directly or indirectly to 
reductions in human population growth.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00653.x
PMID: 11525455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Evolution. 2001 Jul;55(7):1363-72. doi: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00658.x.

Correlated responses to selection for faster development and early reproduction 
in Drosophila: the evolution of larval traits.

Prasad NG(1), Shakarad M, Anitha D, Rajamani M, Joshi A.

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary and Organismal Biology Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for 
Advanced Scientific Research, Jakkur, Bangalore, India.

Studies on selection for faster development in Drosophila have typically focused 
on the trade-offs among development time, adult weight, and adult life span. 
Relatively less attention has been paid to the evolution of preadult life stages 
and behaviors in response to such selection. We have earlier reported that four 
laboratory populations of D. melanogaster selected for faster development and 
early reproduction, relative to control populations, showed considerably reduced 
preadult development time and survivorship, dry weight at eclosion, and larval 
growth rates. Here we study the larval phase of these populations in greater 
detail. We show here that the reduction in development time after about 50 
generations of selection is due to reduced duration of the first and third 
larval instars and the pupal stage, whereas the duration of the second larval 
instar has not changed. About 90% of the preadult mortality in the selected 
populations is due to larval mortality. The third instar larvae, pupae, and 
freshly eclosed adults of the selected populations weigh significantly less than 
controls, and this difference appears during the third larval instar. 
Thereafter, percentage weight loss during the pupal stage does not differ 
between selected and control populations. The minimum amount of time a larva 
must feed to subsequently complete development is lower in the selected 
populations, which also exhibit a syndrome of reduced energy expenditure through 
reduction in larval feeding rate, larval digging and foraging activity, and 
pupation height. Comparison of these results with those observed earlier in 
populations selected for adaptation to larval crowding and faster development 
under a different protocol from ours reveal differences in the evolved traits 
that suggest that the responses to selection for faster development are greatly 
affected by the larval density at which selection acts and on details of the 
selection pressures acting on the timing of reproduction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00658.x
PMID: 11525460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Eur J Dermatol. 2001 Sep-Oct;11(5):446-9.

Five cases of melanoma in HIV positive patients.

Calista D(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology Unit, M. BufaliniHospital, 47023 Cesena, Italy. calista@iol.it

BACKGROUND: Kaposi's sarcoma, high grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma and 
invasive carcinoma of the cervix are all AIDS-defining illnesses according to 
the CDC staging criteria classification. A number of other malignancies, not 
traditionally associated with HIV infection, such as Hodgkin's disease, cancers 
of the rectum, anus, and germ-cell tumours, appear to occur more often than 
would be expected in these patients. Malignant cutaneous lesions, including 
basal cell, squamous-cell carcinomas, Bowen's disease, and cutaneous melanoma 
(CM) have been less often reported.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical data of 5 HIV+ 
seropositive patients and CM observed at the "M. Bufalini" Hospital, Cesena, 
Italy from 1994 to 2000.
RESULTS: All the 5 subjects had a history of intense sun exposure and sunburns. 
Four patients reported homosexuality as their risk factor for HIV disease. 
Reviewing the international literature on the subject HIV infected homosexuals 
appear the group at higher risk of developing CMM, accounting for 80% of cases.
CONCLUSION: As patients' life expectancy appears to be prolonged after the 
advent of the HAART therapy, skin cancers will probably become more frequent in 
the near future. Clinicians should keep close medical surveillance to promptly 
diagnose new cases of melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers and advise their 
HIV-infected patients on the risk of prolonged sun exposure and severe sun burns 
for the development of skin cancers.

PMID: 11525954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Am Heart J. 2001 Sep;142(3):537-43. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2001.116479.

Cost-effectiveness of beta-blocker therapy with metoprolol or with carvedilol 
for treatment of heart failure in Canada.

Levy AR(1), Briggs AH, Demers C, O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada. alevy@cheos.ubc.ca

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
beta-blocker therapy with either metoprolol or carvedilol in addition to 
conventional therapy for patients with heart failure (HF) in Canada.
DESIGN: A Markov simulation was used to estimate the costs and life expectancy 
for treating patients with conventional therapy alone and with the addition of 
metoprolol or carvedilol. Although carvedilol has been marketed in Canada since 
1999, metoprolol succinate has yet to be marketed there, so the price is 
unknown. Therefore we input a Canadian price based on the price ratio of the 2 
drugs in the United States.
RESULTS: For subjects aged 60 years at HF onset, the expected years of life are 
4.53 years for those treated with conventional therapy alone, 5.70 years for 
those who receive conventional therapy plus metoprolol, and 6.21 years for those 
who receive conventional therapy plus carvedilol. The expected costs (in 1999 
Canadian dollars) are $8,989, $13,833, and $18,114, respectively. This yields 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for metoprolol relative to 
conventional therapy alone of $4,140 per life-year gained, and for carvedilol 
relative to metoprolol, the ICER is $8,394 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to conventional therapy with furosemide and angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors, treatment with either metoprolol or carvedilol 
confers a survival benefit that is attractive from a cost-effectiveness point of 
view. Until better information becomes available, it is not possible to 
distinguish between the two beta-blockers on the basis of cost-effectiveness. 
This means that the choice of beta-blockers for HF should be based largely on 
clinical considerations because both beta-blockers prolong life at relatively 
low cost.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2001.116479
PMID: 11526370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Hepatology. 2001 Sep;34(3):529-34. doi: 10.1053/jhep.2001.27219.

Discrimination value of the new western prognostic system (CLIP score) for 
hepatocellular carcinoma in 662 Japanese patients. Cancer of the Liver Italian 
Program.

Ueno S(1), Tanabe G, Sako K, Hiwaki T, Hokotate H, Fukukura Y, Baba Y, Imamura 
Y, Aikou T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Kagoshima University, School of Medicine, 
Kagoshima, Japan. ueno1@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

To reliably estimate the prognoses of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC), both liver function and tumor-related factors should be accounted for. 
However, there are few worldwide staging systems that assess prognostic value in 
the context of selecting individual patients for randomized stratification in 
therapeutic and clinical trials. We investigated the value of known prognostic 
systems and verified the usefulness of the new scoring system proposed by the 
Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP), as determined from 662 Japanese 
patients. A retrospective analysis of the HCC diagnoses at 4 Japanese 
institutions from 1990 and 1998 was performed. Overall survival was the only end 
point used in the analysis. Discriminatory ability and predictive power of the 
CLIP score were compared with those of Okuda stage and AJCC TNM stage. Compared 
with the Okuda and AJCC staging systems, the CLIP score's enhanced 
discriminatory capacity, which was tested by the linear trend test and Harrels' 
c-index, revealed a class of patients with an impressively more favorable 
prognosis and another class with a relatively shorter life expectancy. Moreover, 
the likelihood ratio test showed that the CLIP score had additional homogeneity 
of survival within each score above that of the Okuda stage or the AJCC stage. 
This was true for 3 subgroups of patients who received surgery, transcatheter 
arterial chemoembolizations, and percutaneous ethanol injections. Collectively, 
these findings indicate that the CLIP score has the highest stratification 
ability with regard to prognosis in patients with HCC. The CLIP score could be 
used internationally to stratify randomization groups in therapeutic and 
clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1053/jhep.2001.27219
PMID: 11526539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2001 Jun;11 Suppl A:S103-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1096-6374(01)80017-4.

Growth hormone receptor antagonists: discovery and potential uses.

Kopchick JJ(1), Okada S.

Author information:
(1)Edison Biotechnology Institute and Department of Biomedical Sciences, College 
of Osteopathic Medicine, Ohio University, Athens 45701-2979, USA. 
Kopchick@edison.biotech.ohiou.edu

Serum levels of growth hormone (GH) in the human body vary and can influence the 
levels of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1). Low levels of GH can result in a 
dwarf phenotype and have been positively correlated with an increased life 
expectancy. High levels of GH can lead to gigantism or a clinical syndrome 
termed acromegaly, and also have been implicated in diabetic eye and kidney 
damage. Additionally, it has been postulated that the GH-IGF-I system can be 
involved in several types of cancers. Overall, both elevated and suppressed 
circulating levels of GH can have pronounced physiological effects. More than a 
decade ago a new class of drug, a GH antagonist, was discovered. It is now being 
tested for its ability to combat the effects of high circulating levels of GH. 
In this review, we will discuss some of the detrimental actions of GH and how a 
GH antagonist may be used to combat these effects.

DOI: 10.1016/s1096-6374(01)80017-4
PMID: 11527080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2001;13(3):209-18. doi: 10.1053/clon.2001.9256.

How accurate are physicians' clinical predictions of survival and the available 
prognostic tools in estimating survival times in terminally ill cancer patients? 
A systematic review.

Chow E(1), Harth T, Hruby G, Finkelstein J, Wu J, Danjoux C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Toronto-Sunnybrook Regional Cancer Centre, 
University of Toronto, Canada. Edward.Chow@tsrcc.on.ca

The purpose of this review was to examine the accuracy of physicians' clinical 
predictions of survival and the available prognostic tools in estimating 
survival times in terminally ill cancer patients. A MEDLINE search for English 
language articles published between 1966 and March 2000 was performed using the 
following keywords: forecasting/clinical prediction, prognosis/prognostic 
factors, survival and neoplasm metastasis. Searches in CancerLit, EMBASE, 
PubMed, the Cochrane Library and reference sections of articles were performed. 
Studies were included if they concerned adult patients with various cancer 
histological diagnoses and employed clinical prediction and the readily 
available clinical parameters. Biochemical and molecular markers were excluded. 
Grading of the evidence and recommendations was performed. Twelve articles on 
clinical prediction and 19 on prognostic factors met the inclusion criteria. 
Clinical prediction tends to be incorrect in the optimistic direction but 
improves with repeated measurements. Performance status has been found to be 
most strongly correlated with the duration of survival, followed by the 
'terminal syndrome', which includes anorexia, weight loss and dysphagia. 
Cognitive failure and confusion have also been associated with a shorter life 
span. Performance status combined with clinical symptoms and the clinician's 
estimate helps to guide an accurate prediction, as reviewed in an Italian 
series. There is fair evidence to support using performance status, and clinical 
and biochemical parameters, in addition to clinicians' judgement to aid survival 
prediction. However, there is weak evidence to support that clinicians' 
estimates alone could be specifically employed for survival prediction.

DOI: 10.1053/clon.2001.9256
PMID: 11527298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2001 Jul;49(7):877-83. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49177.x.

Serum and urine markers of bone metabolism during the year after hip fracture.

Yu-Yahiro JA(1), Michael RH, Dubin NH, Fox KM, Sachs M, Hawkes WG, Hebel JR, 
Zimmerman SI, Shapiro J, Magaziner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Union Memorial Hospital, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: As part of a larger study to describe indices of recovery during the 
year after hip fracture, the current prospective study investigated longitudinal 
changes in serum and urine markers of bone metabolism for the year after hip 
fracture and related them to bone mineral density (BMD).
DESIGN: A representative subset of participants provided serum and urine samples 
and had bone density measured at 3, 10, 60, 180, and 365 days postfracture.
SETTING: Two Baltimore hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: The subjects were 205 community-dwelling, white women age 65 and 
older with fresh proximal femur fractures.
MEASUREMENTS: Samples were assayed for specific bone-related proteins and bone 
turnover markers, including serum osteocalcin (OC), procollagen type 1 
carboxy-terminal extension peptide (PICP), bone-specific alkaline phosphatase 
(BAP), and urinary deoxypyridinoline (DPD) cross-links. Selected hormonal 
regulators of bone metabolism, including parathyroid hormone (PTH), calcitonin 
(CT), 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D(3) (1,25 (OH)(2)D), and estrone (E(1)) were 
measured from serum samples. Repeated measures analyses were used to evaluate 
postfracture changes in each of the markers.
RESULTS: BAP, OC, and PICP were most active during the early postfracture period 
(3-60 days). BAP and OC remained elevated at 365 days compared with 3 days. DPD 
rose 48% from 3 days to 60 days, but this difference was not statistically 
significant. PTH and 1,25 (OH)(2)D increased steadily and significantly from 3 
to 365 days. E(1) was highest at baseline and decreased at each time point, 
whereas CT showed no significant changes. When subjects were stratified into 
high-, medium-, and low-BMD groups based on their measurement at 3 days, both 
osteoclastic and osteoblastic markers in the low-BMD group displayed exaggerated 
and different patterns over time compared with the other groups.
CONCLUSION: Currently, the standard treatment of care for hip fractures still 
results in high morbidity and mortality and failure to regain prefracture 
quality of life. Gaining an understanding of bone cell activity in these 
patients after hip fracture, derived by measuring markers longitudinally during 
recovery, provides a baseline by which to measure the effectiveness of new 
interventions to improve recovery from hip fracture.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49177.x
PMID: 11527478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Am J Public Health. 2001 Sep;91(9):1456-63. doi: 10.2105/ajph.91.9.1456.

Cost-effectiveness of earlier initiation of antiretroviral therapy for uninsured 
HIV-infected adults.

Schackman BR(1), Goldie SJ, Weinstein MC, Losina E, Zhang H, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, Mass, USA. brs2006A@med.cornell.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to examine the societal cost-effectiveness 
and the impact on government payers of earlier initiation of antiretroviral 
therapy for uninsured HIV-infected adults.
METHODS: A state-transition simulation model of HIV disease was used. Data were 
derived from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, published randomized trials, and 
medical care cost estimates for all government payers and for Massachusetts, 
NewYork, and Florida.
RESULTS: Quality-adjusted life expectancy increased from 7.64 years with therapy 
initiated at 200 CD4 cells/microL to 8.21 years with therapy initiated at 500 
CD4 cells/microL. Initiating therapy at 500 CD4/microL was a more efficient use 
of resources than initiating therapy at 200 CD4/microL and had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $17,300 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, 
compared with no therapy. Costs to state payers in the first 5 years ranged from 
$5,500 to $24,900 because of differences among the states in the availability of 
federal funds forAIDS drug assistance programs.
CONCLUSIONS: Antiretroviral therapy initiated at 500 CD4 cells/microL is 
cost-effective from a societal: perspective compared with therapy initiated 
later. States should consider Medicaid waivers to expand access to early 
therapy.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.91.9.1456
PMCID: PMC1446805
PMID: 11527782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Health Policy Plan. 2001 Sep;16(3):313-21. doi: 10.1093/heapol/16.3.313.

The promise and limits of private medicine: health policy dilemmas in Nigeria.

Alubo O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Jos, Jos, Nigeria.

Comment in
    Health Policy Plan. 2002 Jun;17(2):218-9; author reply 219-20.

Comment on
    Health Policy Plan. 1999 Jun;14(2):115-26.
    Health Policy Plan. 1999 Jun;14(2):174-81.
    Health Policy Plan. 2000 Mar;15(1):95-102.

Developments in health are easily among the best known human development 
indicators. Comparisons of life expectancy, infant mortality, access to safe 
water and similar data indicate the positions of individual countries. The 
political and economic processes which these indices reflect, or which inform 
the nature of health policy, are often not as clear or visible. These structural 
factors are either frequently ignored or mentioned only in passing, as 
illustrated in a recent paper published in this journal on the private medical 
enterprise in Nigeria (Ogunbekun et al. 1999). According to the authors, the 
generally low quality of public health services and high user fees have combined 
to make private medicine the 'unavoidable choice' of Nigerians. They identify 
benefits of private medicine as higher technical efficiency and contributing to 
fill the gap created by inadequate public sector services and to medical 
training. This paper argues that these claims are exaggerated, and that the 
authors seem to ignore Nigeria's political and economic processes, the health 
seeking behaviour of Nigerians, as well as the prevailing causes of morbidity 
and mortality. It is suggested that whereas the contributions of private 
medicine are significant, there are also several limitations, some of which 
originate from its for-profit raison d'être. The ultimate aim of health 
development must include improved access to services and better health status 
for the majority of the people. Without any form of public supported programme 
of payments in Nigeria, these objectives are circumscribed, especially with high 
fees in the private system. It is concluded that while private medicine will 
continue to be available for those who can afford it, it is unlikely to provide 
solutions to Nigeria's morbidity and mortality problems, particularly in 
relation to epidemics such as the growing burden of HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/16.3.313
PMID: 11527872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Health Policy Plan. 2001 Sep;16(3):326-31. doi: 10.1093/heapol/16.3.326.

Calculating and presenting disability adjusted life years (DALYs) in 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Fox-Rushby JA(1), Hanson K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Financing Programme, Health Policy Unit, London School 
of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

Disability adjusted life years (DALYs) are the sum of the present value of 
future years of lifetime lost through premature mortality, and the present value 
of years of future lifetime adjusted for the average severity (frequency and 
intensity) of any mental or physical disability caused by a disease or injury. 
They have been used as an outcome indicator in micro economic evaluations as 
well as sectoral prioritization exercises using league tables of 
cost-effectiveness. However, many of the current analyses are not comparable or 
transferable because either the assumptions used differ or are unclear, and 
because results are not presented in a way that allows researchers or 
policy-makers to re-calculate and re-interpret findings for use in an 
alternative context. However, at times there have also been miscalculations. 
This may happen either because evaluators disagree with the assumptions behind 
DALYs or because the methods of calculation have not been set out clearly. This 
paper shows how to calculate DALYs for cost-effectiveness analysis using a 
worked example. It also shows the impact of changing the age weighting and 
discount rates on estimates of cost-effectiveness, and suggests a set of minimum 
reporting criteria for using DALYs in cost-effectiveness analysis. Finally, 
readers are introduced briefly to a selected literature arguing for and against 
the use of DALYs.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/16.3.326
PMID: 11527874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Oncology. 2001;61(2):147-55. doi: 10.1159/000055366.

Immunoreactivity of monoclonal antibody BW835 represents a marker of progression 
and prognosis in early gastric cancer.

Baldus SE(1), Zirbes TK, Glossmann J, Fromm S, Hanisch FG, Mönig SP, Schröder W, 
Schneider PM, Flucke U, Karsten U, Thiele J, Hölscher AH, Dienes HP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Germany. 
s-e.baldus@uni-koeln.de

The Thomsen-Friedenreich (TF) antigen is a well-known human pan-carcinoma 
antigen. It represents a carbohydrate core disaccharide (Gal beta 1-3GalNAc) 
which is predominantly bound to mucin peptide cores. Its immunoreactivity 
depends on changes in glycosylation which lead to a reduction in the 
carbohydrate chain length and the exposure of core carbohydrates. In the present 
study, we investigated 208 gastric adenocarcinomas with respect to their 
immunohistochemical reactivity applying two monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). MAb 
specifically detecting TF antigen (A78-G/A7) and MAb BW835 were included. The 
latter reacts with a certain glycoform of the MUC1 peptide core, characterized 
by core-type glycans like TF. A78-G/A7 epitopes were detected in 68.8% and BW835 
epitopes in 57.7% of the carcinomas. BW835 immunoreactivity correlated with the 
presence of lymph node metastases. Both A78-G/A7 and BW835 staining were 
significantly stronger in tubular/papillary cancer (WHO classification) and 
intestinal-type cancer according to Laurén. In univariate survival analyses of 
all patients studied, BW835 immunoreactivity was a marker of an unfavorable 
prognosis (p < 0.05). The presence of A78-G/A7 and BW835 epitopes exerted a 
negative effect on the subgroup of pTNM stage I carcinomas. These results 
indicate that TF and MUC1-TF immunoreactivity defines a 'high-risk' subgroup of 
stage I patients in gastric cancer.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000055366
PMID: 11528254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Oncology. 2001;61(2):162-7. doi: 10.1159/000055368.

Expression of metallothionein in colorectal cancers and synchronous liver 
metastases.

Hishikawa Y(1), Kohno H, Ueda S, Kimoto T, Dhar DK, Kubota H, Tachibana M, Koji 
T, Nagasue N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Cell Biology, Nagasaki University School of 
Medicine, Nagasaki, Japan. yhish@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

The aim of this study is to clarify whether the expression of metallothionein 
(MT) is related with the malignant potential in primary colorectal cancer and/or 
synchronous liver metastasis. Immunohistochemical staining for MT was performed 
on the specimens of adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum and its liver 
metastases in 34 patients treated with curative surgery, respectively. 
Expression of MT was compared with clinicopathological variables and patient 
survival. In patients with primary colorectal cancer, positive expression was 
found in 7 of 34 (20.6%) patients, but MT was not detected in any of the cases 
of liver metastases (0%; p = 0.0111). In the primary tumor, positive MT 
expression was significantly associated with a higher degree of lymph node 
involvement (mean +/- SD: 48.4 +/- 33.8 vs. 18.6 +/- 24.4% in MT-positive and 
MT-negative tumors, respectively; p = 0.0122). The survival rate in the patients 
with MT-negative tumors was significantly better than that in those with 
MT-positive tumors as primary sites (p = 0.0198). MT expression in colorectal 
cancer may be a potential marker affecting lymph node metastases and may be a 
predictor of a poor prognosis, particularly in patients with synchronous liver 
metastases.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000055368
PMID: 11528256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Sep 4;135(5):382-3. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-135-5-200109040-00021.

Cost-effectiveness analyses.

Clark CM.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2000 May 16;132(10):769-79.
    Ann Intern Med. 2000 May 16;132(10):780-7.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-135-5-200109040-00021
PMID: 11529708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2001 Sep;155(9):1043-50. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.155.9.1043.

Cost-effectiveness of a school-based tobacco-use prevention program.

Wang LY(1), Crossett LS, Lowry R, Sussman S, Dent CW.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance and Evaluation Research Branch, Division of Adolescent and 
School Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
lgw0@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of a school-based tobacco-use 
prevention program.
DESIGN: Using data from the previously reported 2-year efficacy study of the 
Project Toward No Tobacco Use (TNT), we conducted a decision analysis to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of TNT. The benefits measured were life years 
(LYs) saved, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved, and medical care costs 
saved, discounted at 3%. The costs measured were program costs. We quantified 
TNT's cost-effectiveness as cost per LY saved and cost per QALY saved.
INTERVENTION: A 10-lesson curriculum designed to counteract social influences 
and misconceptions that lead to tobacco use was delivered by trained health 
educators to a cohort of 1234 seventh-grade students in 8 junior high schools. A 
2-lesson booster session was delivered to the eighth-grade students in the 
second year. The efficacy evaluation was based on 770 ninth-grade students who 
participated in the program in the seventh and eighth grades and in both the 
baseline and the 2-year follow-up survey.
RESULTS: Under base case assumptions, at an intervention cost of $16 403, TNT 
prevented an estimated 34.9 students from becoming established smokers. As a 
result, we could expect a saving of $13 316 per LY saved and a saving of $8482 
per QALY saved. Results showed TNT to be cost saving over a reasonable range of 
