model parameter estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: The TNT is highly cost-effective compared with other widely 
accepted prevention interventions. School-based prevention programs of this type 
warrant careful consideration by policy makers and program planners.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.155.9.1043
PMID: 11529807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Lancet. 2001 Aug 25;358(9282):647. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(01)05827-5.

Japan starts on health-spending slowdown.

Watts J.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(01)05827-5
PMID: 11530165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Gig Sanit. 2001 Jul-Aug;(4):66-8.

["Health-environment" monitoring].

[Article in Russian]

Golubev IR.

PMID: 11530647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Clin Exp Obstet Gynecol. 2001;28(3):148-52.

Cumulative pregnancy rates after four embryo transfers of either fresh or frozen 
embryos.

Lurie D(1), Check JH, Nazari A, Choe JK, Lee G.

Author information:
(1)The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School at Camden, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate in the modern era of in vitro fertilization (IVF) 
cumulative probability of pregnancy for the first four embryo transfers (ET) 
irrespective of whether the embryos were fresh or frozen.
METHODS: Retrospective review over a 2 1/2 year period. Cumulative probability 
of pregnancy for four consecutive cycles of either fresh or frozen ETs divided 
into four age groups.
RESULTS: The cumulative clinical and viable pregnancy rates after four ETs were 
92% and 88%; 87% and 82%; 83% and 69%; and 68% and 52% for age groups <30, 
30-34, 35-39, and 40-44. The cumulative rates decline with age.
CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy rates per transfer for the first four ETs regardless of 
age are similar even in IVF centers that emphasize frozen ETs.

PMID: 11530861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Acta Physiol Scand. 2001 Aug;172(4):269-78. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-201x.2001.00869.x.

Inactivity and muscle: effect of resistance training during bed rest on muscle 
size in the lower limb.

Akima H(1), Kubo K, Imai M, Kanehisa H, Suzuki Y, Gunji A, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan.

The present study aimed to investigate the effect of dynamic leg press training 
on the physiological cross-sectional areas (PCSAs) of human lower limb muscles 
during 20 days of 6 degrees head-down tilt bed rest. Five healthy men comprised 
the resistance training group (BR-Tr) and data from two previous studies were 
used to derive a 10-man control group (BR-Cont). The BR-Tr performed two 
sessions (morning and afternoon session) of dynamic leg press action including 
knee extension and plantar flexion daily for the bed rest period: (1) three sets 
of 10 repetitions at 90% of maximum load and (2) 40% of maximum load to 
exhaustion. The PCSAs of the knee extensor (KE), knee flexor (KF), plantar 
flexor (PF), and dorsiflexor muscle groups were estimated using serial axial 
magnetic resonance (MR) images of the right-thigh and leg. After the bed rest 
period, the BR-Tr showed a significant increase in the PCSA of the KE. Although 
PCSA of the KF in two groups significantly decreased after bed rest, percentage 
of change in PCSA of the biceps femoris (long head) and semitendinosus muscles 
in the BR-Tr, which occupied approximately 70% of the KF, was significantly 
higher than those in the BR-Cont. Both the BR-Tr and BR-Cont groups showed 
significant decreases in the PCSA of PF with similar magnitude of 11.6% (P < 
0.001) and 11.9% (P < 0.001), respectively. These results suggest that dynamic 
leg press training during bed rest can prevent deteriorating of the KE and a 
part of KF, but not the calf muscles.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-201x.2001.00869.x
PMID: 11531648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Clin Exp Immunol. 2001 Sep;125(3):409-13. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2249.2001.01640.x.

Both age and gender affect thymic output: more recent thymic migrants in females 
than males as they age.

Pido-Lopez J(1), Imami N, Aspinall R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Imperial College School of Medicine, London, UK.

The thymus undergoes age-associated involution, with studies showing thymic size 
decreasing from birth at a rate of approximately 3% per year until middle age, 
and at a rate of 1% per year thereafter. The aim of this study was to determine 
the effect of thymic atrophy on T-lymphocyte production by the thymus, and to 
clarify the ongoing uncertainty regarding gender differences in thymic function. 
We quantified recent thymic emigrants (RTEs) in blood through the measurement of 
signal joint T-cell receptor rearrangement excision circles (sjTRECs), and 
showed that the decline in the number of RTEs in the blood with increasing age 
is gender-linked. Peripheral blood from females contained significantly higher 
levels of sjTRECs per CD3+ T cell than blood from males (P = 0.002), despite 
there being no significant gender difference in the absolute number of CD3+ T 
cells in the populations analysed (P > 0.10). Our findings suggest better thymic 
function in females compared with males, providing females with a higher number 
of recent thymic emigrants for longer periods of life. Such a finding provides a 
plausible explanation for the immunological gender differences observed in 
previous studies and possibly, for the general longer life expectancy in females 
compared with males.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2249.2001.01640.x
PMCID: PMC1906152
PMID: 11531948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Mol Microbiol. 2001 Aug;41(4):911-24. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2001.02561.x.

The CRP-cAMP complex and downregulation of the glnAp2 promoter provides a novel 
regulatory linkage between carbon metabolism and nitrogen assimilation in 
Escherichia coli.

Tian ZX(1), Li QS, Buck M, Kolb A, Wang YP.

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Protein Engineering and Plant Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic 
of China.

In Escherichia coli, glnA (encoding glutamine synthetase) is transcribed from 
two promoters (glnAp1 and glnAp2). The glnAp1 is a sigma(70)-dependent promoter 
that is activated by the cAMP receptor protein (CRP). Under nitrogen-deficient 
growth conditions, glnAp1 is repressed by NtrC-phosphate. The downstream glnAp2 
promoter is sigma(54)-dependent and is activated by NtrC-phosphate. Here, we 
show that glnAp2 expression is affected by different carbon sources and that the 
CRP-cAMP complex inhibits the glnAp2 promoter activity. Primer extension and 
KMnO4 footprinting analysis indicate that the inhibitory effect is at the 
transcriptional level in vivo. When glnAp2 is activated by NifA, a similar 
inhibitory effect by CRP-cAMP is observed. Site-directed mutagenesis and 
deletion analysis indicate that the characterized and putative CRP-binding sites 
located in the upstream region of the glnAp2 promoter are not essential for the 
inhibitory effect. CRP-cAMP inhibits sigma(54)-dependent glnAp2 strongly, by 
21-fold. By activating glnAp1 and downregulating glnAp2, the overall effect of 
CRP-cAMP on glnA expression is an approximately fourfold reduction, which 
correlates with the reduction of gamma-glutamyl transferase activities in the 
cells. We propose therefore that a physiological role of CRP-cAMP activation of 
glnAp1 is to partially compensate for CRP-cAMP downregulation of glnAp2, 
allowing a low but non-negligible level of expression of the important genes 
transcribed from it. A novel regulatory linkage between carbon and nitrogen 
regulons is proposed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2001.02561.x
PMID: 11532153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Health Technol Assess. 2001;5(15):1-139. doi: 10.3310/hta5150.

Home treatment for mental health problems: a systematic review.

Burns T(1), Knapp M, Catty J, Healey A, Henderson J, Watt H, Wright C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Psychiatry, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK.

This review investigates the effectiveness of 'home treatment' for mental health 
problems in terms of hospitalisation and cost-effectiveness. For the purposes of 
this review, 'home treatment' is defined as a service that enables the patient 
to be treated outside hospital as far as possible and remain in their usual 
place of residence. METHODS - SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE SEARCH: 'Home treatment' 
excluded studies focused on day, residential and foster care. The review was 
based on Cochrane methodology, but non-randomised studies were included if they 
compared two services; these were only analysed if they provided evidence of the 
groups' baseline clinical comparability. METHODS - REVIEW OF ECONOMIC 
EVALUATIONS: Economic evaluations among the studies found were reviewed against 
established criteria. METHODS - IDENTIFICATION OF SERVICE COMPONENTS: A 
three-round Delphi exercise ascertained the degree of consensus among expert 
psychiatrists concerning the important components of community-based services 
that enable them to treat patients outside hospital. The identified components 
were used to construct the follow-up questionnaire. METHODS - FOLLOW-UP OF 
AUTHORS: As a supplement to the information available in the papers, authors of 
all the studies were followed up for data on service components, sustainability 
of programmes and service utilisation. METHODS - DATA ANALYSIS: The outcome 
measure was mean days in hospital per patient per month over the follow-up 
period. (1) Comparative analysis - compared experimental to control services. It 
analysed all studies with available data, divided into 'inpatient-control' and 
'community-control' studies, and tested for associations between service 
components and difference in hospital days. (2) Experimental services analysis - 
analysed only experimental service data and tested for associations between 
service components and hospital days. RESULTS - SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE SEARCH: A 
total of 91 studies were found, conducted over a 30-year period. The majority 
(87) focused on people with psychotic disorders. RESULTS - REVIEW OF ECONOMIC 
EVALUATIONS: Only 22 studies included economic evaluations. They provided little 
conclusive evidence about cost-effectiveness because of problems with the 
heterogeneity of services, sample size, outcome measures and quality of 
analysis. RESULTS - DELPHI EXERCISE: In all, 16 items were rated as 'essential', 
falling into six categories: home environment; skill-mix; psychiatrist 
involvement; service management; caseload size; and health/social care 
integration. There was consensus that caseloads under 25 and flexible working 
hours over 7 days were important, but little support for caseloads under 15 or 
for 24-hour services, and consensus that home visiting was essential, but not on 
teams being 'explicitly dedicated' to home treatment. RESULTS - RESPONSE TO 
FOLLOW-UP: A total of 60% of authors responded, supplying data on service 
components and hospital days in most cases. Other service utilisation data were 
far less readily available. RESULTS - SERVICE CHARACTERISATION AND 
CLASSIFICATION: The services were homogeneous in terms of 'home treatment 
function' but fairly heterogeneous in terms of other components. There was some 
evidence for a group of services that were multidisciplinary, had psychiatrists 
as integrated team members, had smaller caseloads, visited patients at home 
regularly and took responsibility for both health and social care. This was not 
a cohesive group, however. RESULTS - SUSTAINABILITY OF SERVICES: The 
sustainability of home treatment services was modest: less than half the 
services whose authors responded were still identifiable. Services were more 
likely to be operational if the study had found them to reduce hospitalisation 
significantly. RESULTS - META-ANALYSIS: Meta-analysis with heterogeneous studies 
is problematic. The evidence base for the effectiveness of services identifiable 
as 'home treatment' was not strong. Within the 'inpatient-control' study group, 
the mean reduction in hospitalisation was 5 days per patient per month (for 
1-year studies only). No statistical significance could be measured for this 
result. For 'community-control' studies, the reduction in hospitalisation was 
negligible. Moreover, the heterogeneity of control services, the wide range of 
outcome measures and the limited availability of data might have confounded the 
analysis. Regularly visiting at home and dual responsibility for health and 
social care were associated with reduced hospitalisation. Evidence for other 
components was inconclusive. Few conclusions could be drawn from the analysis of 
service utilisation data. RESULTS - LOCATION: Studies were predominately from 
the USA and UK, more of them being from the USA. North American studies found a 
reduction in hospitalisation of 1 day per patient per month more than European 
studies. North American and European services differed on some service 
components, but this was unlikely to account for this finding, particularly as 
no difference was found in their experimental service results. CONCLUSIONS - 
STATE OF RESEARCH: There is a clear need for further studies, particularly in 
the UK. The benefit of home treatment over admission in terms of days in 
hospital was clear, but over other community-based alternatives was 
inconclusive. CONCLUSIONS - NON-RANDOMISED STUDIES: Difficulties in 
systematically searching for non-randomised studies may have contributed to the 
smaller number of such studies found (35, compared with 56 randomised controlled 
trials). This imbalance was compounded by a relatively poor response rate from 
non-randomised controlled trial authors. Including them in the analysis had 
little effect. CONCLUSIONS - LIMITATIONS OF THIS REVIEW: A broad area was 
reviewed in order to avoid the problem of analysing by service label. While 
reviews of narrower areas may risk implying a homogeneity of the services that 
is unwarranted, the current strategy has the drawback that the studies cover a 
range of heterogeneous services. The poor definition of control services, 
however, is ubiquitous in this field, however reviewed areas are defined. 
Inclusion of mean data for which no standard deviations were available was 
problematic in that it prevented measuring the significance of the main 
findings. The lack of availability of this data, however, is an important 
finding, demonstrating the difficulty in seeking certainty in this area. Only 
days in hospital and cost-effectiveness were analysed here. The range and lack 
of uniformity of measures used in this field made meta-analysis of other 
outcomes impossible. It should be noted, however, that the findings pertain to 
these aspects alone. The Delphi exercise reported here was limited in being 
conducted only with psychiatrists, rather than a multidisciplinary panel. Its 
findings were used as a framework for the follow-up and analysis. Their possible 
bias should be borne in mind when considering them as findings in themselves. 
CONCLUSIONS - IMPLICATIONS FOR CLINICIANS: The evidence base for home treatment 
compared with other community-based services is not strong, although it does 
show that home treatment reduces days spent in hospital compared with inpatient 
treatment. There is evidence that visiting patients at home regularly and taking 
responsibility for both health and social care each reduce days in hospital. 
CONCLUSIONS - IMPLICATIONS FOR CONSUMERS: Services that visit patients at home 
regularly and those that take responsibility for both health and social care are 
likely to reduce time spent in hospital. Psychiatrists surveyed in this review 
also considered support for carers to be essential. The evidence from this 
review, however, was that few services currently have protocols for meeting 
carers' needs. CONCLUSIONS - RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RESEARCH AND COMMISSIONERS: A 
centrally coordinated research strategy, with attention to study design, is 
recommended. Studies should include economic evaluations that report health and 
social service utilisation. Service components should be collected and reported 
for both experimental and control services. Studies should be designed with 
adequate power and longer durations of follow-up and use comparable outcome 
measures to facilitate meta-analysis. Research protocols should be adhered to 
throughout the studies. It may be advisable that independent researchers conduct 
studies in future. It is no longer recommended that home treatment be tested 
against inpatient care, or that small, localised studies replicate existing, 
more highly powered studies.

DOI: 10.3310/hta5150
PMID: 11532236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Health Technol Assess. 2001;5(17):1-47. doi: 10.3310/hta5170.

The role of specialist nurses in multiple sclerosis: a rapid and systematic 
review.

De Broe S(1), Christopher F, Waugh N.

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute for Health Research and Development, University of 
Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the central nervous system. 
The cause is unknown. There are about 80-160 people with MS per 100,000 
population, with twice as many women affected as men. The management of 
individuals with MS includes treatment of acute relapses and chronic symptoms. 
The care of MS patients is provided by various healthcare professionals, such as 
general practitioners (GPs), neurologists, physiotherapists, occupational 
therapists and nurses. Some MS patients have access to an MS specialist nurse, 
although this provision varies geographically.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this report is to assess the effectiveness and relative 
cost-effectiveness of MS specialist nurses in improving care and outcomes for 
patients with MS.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature, involving a range of databases, 
was performed. Full details are described in the main report.
RESULTS: Only one study was identified that tried to evaluate the benefit of MS 
specialist nurses. The study concluded that MS patients and their carers found 
the MS specialist nurse to be helpful, particularly in improving their knowledge 
of MS, ability to cope, mood and confidence about the future. GPs also reported 
finding the nurse to be helpful with their MS patients, and 40% of the GPs 
stated they would purchase the services of an MS specialist nurse if their 
practices became fundholding. However, there were considerable methodological 
weaknesses inherent in the study design, and it was unclear whether the results 
of the study could be extrapolated to other settings or to other MS patient 
groups. RESULTS - ONGOING RESEARCH: There are two ongoing research studies 
regarding MS specialist nurses. One of these studies involves the provision of 
MS nurses to several areas, but also has two control populations to allow 
evaluation of the health benefits of the nurses to MS patients and their carers. 
This study will help to fill the evidence gap. RESULTS - COSTS: The costs of 
providing MS specialist nurses consist of their yearly salary (usually NHS grade 
G), as well as additional costs for travelling, administration, computer and 
telephone use, a pension scheme, National Insurance and study leave. The MS 
Society of Great Britain and Northern Ireland allows a generous total yearly 
cost to the employer of 40,000 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: The present evidence does not make it possible to comment with any 
certainty on the value of specialist nurses in MS. The best evidence available 
to the authors is specialist opinion from neurologists and nurses, and comments 
from patients with MS; this opinion supports the provision of MS specialist 
nurses. CONCLUSIONS - RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Further research is needed 
before it will be feasible to make firm recommendations on the value of MS 
specialist nurses relative to other possible uses of funds.

DOI: 10.3310/hta5170
PMID: 11532237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2001 Aug;11(4):281-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1050-6411(01)00004-9.

Neuromuscular fatigue during maximal concurrent hand grip and elbow flexion or 
extension.

Oda S(1), Kida N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Motor Control, Faculty of Integrated Human Studies, Kyoto 
University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606, Japan. oda@life.h.kyoto-u.ac.jp

The objective was to investigate muscle fatigue measuring changes in force 
output and force tremor and electromyographic activity (EMG) during two 
sustained maximal isometric contractions for 60s: (1) concurrent hand grip and 
elbow flexion (HG and EF); or (2) hand grip and elbow extension (HG and EE). 
Each force tremor amplitude was decomposed into four frequency bands (1-3, 4-10, 
11-20, and 21-50Hz). Surface EMGs were recorded from the flexor digitorum 
superficialis (FDS), extensor digitorum (ED), biceps brachii (BB) and lateral 
head of triceps brachii (TB). The HG and EF forces for the HG and EF and the HG 
force for the HG and EE declined rapidly, whereas the EE force remained almost 
constant near to the initial value for the first 40s and then declined. The 
decrease in EMG amplitude was observed not for the FDS muscle but for the ED 
muscle. The HG tremor amplitude for each frequency band showed similar 
decreasing rate, whereas the decreases in EF and EE tremor amplitudes for the 
lower band (below 10Hz) were slower than those for the higher band (above 11Hz). 
The neuromuscular mechanisms underlying muscle fatigue during sustained maximal 
concurrent contractions of hand grip and elbow flexion or extension are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s1050-6411(01)00004-9
PMID: 11532599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Br J Psychiatry. 2001 Sep;179:261-6. doi: 10.1192/bjp.179.3.261.

Costs of dementia in England and Wales in the 21st century.

McNamee P(1), Bond J, Buck D; Resource Implications Study of the Medical 
Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, School of Health Sciences, 
University of Newcastle, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.

BACKGROUND: An important factor determining future health care expenditure is 
the relationship between ageing, health status and development of age-related 
disorders such as dementia.
AIMS: To estimate the formal care costs associated with dementia in England and 
Wales between 1994 and 2031.
METHOD: Epidemiological cost model, applied to individuals aged 65 years or over 
with dementia, using estimates of life expectancy with dementia and 
dementia-free life expectancy.
RESULTS: Total costs per year were pound 0.95 billion (men) and pound 5.35 
billion (women) using 1994 population estimates. For 2031, costs were pound 2.34 
billion and pound 11.20 billion, respectively. Reduced dementia prevalence rates 
and improvements in mental and physical functioning resulted in lower estimates: 
pound 1.01 billion (men) and pound 5.77 billion (women), and pound 1.65 billion 
(men) and pound 7.87 billion (women), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Future increases in the population aged 65 years or over lead to 
rising formal care costs. However, the magnitude of cost changes depends on 
assumptions over dementia prevalence and levels of mental and physical 
functioning.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.179.3.261
PMID: 11532805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Saudi Med J. 2000 Mar;21(3):302-3.

Agenesis of right lung with esophageal atresia and distal tracheoesophageal 
fistula.

Surendran N(1).

Author information:
(1)Thottathil House, Thevally, Kollam 691 009, Kerala, South India.

PMID: 11533805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Psychiatr Prax. 2001 Jul;28 Suppl 1:S12-20. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-15382.

[Methods of comparative economic evaluations of therapies and for rational 
allocation of resources across sectors of health care systems - introduction, 
advantages, risks].

[Article in German]

Wasem J(1), Hessel F, Kerim-Sade C.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Allgemeine BWL und Gesundheitsmanagement, Universität 
Greifswald. wasem@mail.uni-greifswald.de

Because of scarcity of resources, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in 
medicine increasingly have to be examined not only with regard to effectiveness 
but also with regard to cost-effectiveness, which means with regard to the 
relation between resources used and resulting outcome (however this outcome is 
measured). Primarily, this is true for treatment methods for one and the same 
medical condition. However, economists also consider to evaluate medical 
interventions across heterogeneous medical conditions, in order to rank them 
with regard to their cost-effectiveness. Using quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) as outcome variable, all medical interventions examined can be ranked in 
QALY-League-Tables, which could serve as a basis for resource allocation 
decisions by health policy makers or other payers. However, there are 
methodological as well as ethical objections with such an approach.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-15382
PMID: 11533902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Zentralbl Gynakol. 2001 Jul;123(7):390-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-17036.

[Reasons for the change in HRT therapy from the perspective of women. Results of 
the German Cohort Study on Women's Health].

[Article in German]

Thiel C(1), Heinemann LA, Assmann A; German Cohort Study on Women's Health.

Author information:
(1)ZEG-Zentrum für Epidemiologie & Gesundheitsforschung Berlin.

Acceptance and reasons for changing the HRT play an important role against the 
background of the efficiency of the therapy and increasing life expectancy. 
Women in developed, industrialized countries live about one-third of their lives 
in the peri- and postmenopausal phases.--The frequency of switching and the 
reasons were examined in an interim analysis of the German cohort study on 
women's health. This historical analysis was based on over 10,000 women (i.e. 
about 300,000 man-years of observation), of whom 2,002 women (aged 40-65) were 
constant users of HRT.--The prevalence of use and the frequency of switching to 
other HRT preparations were somewhat higher in women above 60 as compared to 
those aged 40-59. The duration of use had no impact on the prevalence of use or 
the frequency of switching or cessation. Neither education nor the past use of 
oral contraceptives showed a clear association with the frequency of switching. 
The most frequent reasons for switching or cessation were adverse events, i.e. 
reasons independent of age. Women aged from 40 to 49 more frequently reported 
weight gains, menstrual disturbances, headaches, and impaired well-being than 
did older women. A recurrence of menstruation was more frequently reported by 
women over 60 as the reason for switching or discontinuing HRT.--The knowledge 
of the reasons for women switching or discontinuing HRT underlines the 
importance of close collaboration between women and their gynaecologists, as 
well as that of intensified research for optimal products.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-17036
PMID: 11534299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. An Med Interna. 2001 Jul;18(7):381-8.

[Objectives and therapeutic strategy in type 2 diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Spanish]

Calvo Romero JM(1), Lima Rodríguez EM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital Regional Universitario Infanta 
Cristina, Badajoz.

United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) has demonstrated definitively 
that patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) benefit from intensive blood 
glucose control, because it diminishes the risk to develop microvascular 
complications. The therapeutic targets in the type 2 DM have been modified in 
order to reduce the risk of these complications. However, aggressive treatment 
may be disastrous for patients with microvascular complications and/or an 
increased risk of hypoglycemic unawareness, and neither it would be advised in 
older patients or with short life expectancy. The available drugs for treatment 
of type 2 DM offer many options for achieving these therapeutic targets, based 
on the need of the individual patient. In this job we review the targets in the 
metabolic control of type 2 DM and their backgrounds, and we describe briefly 
the therapeutic strategy recommended for reaching these targets, with special 
attention to the new oral antidiabetic agents (repaglinide and 
thiazolidinediones).

PMID: 11534426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Clin Neurosci. 2001 Sep;8(5):416-20. doi: 10.1054/jocn.2000.0857.

Surgical decision-making on cerebral cavernous malformations.

Chang HS(1), Hongo K, Nakagawa H, Tsuge T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Aichi Medical University, Aichi, Japan. 
chang@achi med-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    J Clin Neurosci. 2002 May;9(3):334.

This study is an attempt to clarify surgical decision-making on cerebral 
cavernous malformations based on the data available in the literature. Using a 
mathematical model, we calculated the morbidity-free survival curves of the 
patients harboring cerebral cavernous malformations. Using these survival 
curves, we calculated the morbidity-free life expectancies of the patients at 
certain age undergoing either natural course or surgery. For superficially 
located lesions, permissible surgical risks were very small ranging from 0.4 to 
2.8 percent of combined morbidity and mortality. The surgical gain of morbidity 
free life expectancy was also very small (0.0-1.1 years) irrespective of 
patient's age or eloquence of the location. For deep lesions, the permissible 
risk of surgery was very large, ranging from 64.1% for a 20-year-old and 31.4% 
for a 60-year-old patient. The gain of morbidity-free life expectancy was also 
large for younger patients (17-25 years for 20-year-old patients), but this gain 
rapidly decreased as the patient's age grew older, becoming 1.1 to 3.1 years for 
60-year-old patients. Surgery seems to be justified for younger patients with 
deep lesions. There seems to be little indication for surgery of superficial 
lesions as far as the risk of bleeding is concerned.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1054/jocn.2000.0857
PMID: 11535007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Neurol Sci. 2001 Aug 15;189(1-2):105-11. doi:
10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00566-4.

Transient hyperglycemia in ischemic stroke patients.

Szczudlik A(1), Slowik A, Turaj W, Wyrwicz-Petkow U, Pera J, Dziedzic T, 
Trabka-Janik E, Iskra T.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Unit, Department of Neurology, Collegium Medicum, Jagiellonian 
University, ul. Botaniczna 3, 31-503 Cracow, Poland. msnszczud@rsipl.com

The aim of the study was to investigate glucose derangement and its short- and 
long-term prognostic significance in nondiabetic ischemic stroke patients. The 
study involved 262 consecutive patients, mean age: 70.1+/-12.4 years, with a 
supratentorial ischemic stroke. The following data were collected: patients 
characteristics, risk factors, comorbidities, and stroke severity assessed by 
the Scandinavian Stroke Scale (SSS). Serum glucose levels were measured on 
admission, on the next, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 7th and 14th day after stroke onset. The 
outcome measures on day 30 were mortality and capacity to perform daily 
activities: the Barthel Index and Rankin Scale. The 1-year survival was 
estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazards regression was 
used to assess predictors of 1-year mortality in nondiabetics. Diabetes mellitus 
was found in 24.8% of patients and transient hyperglycemia in 36.3% of patients. 
Patients with transient hyperglycemia scored lower on SSS in the subsequent days 
of assessment than patients with either diabetes mellitus or normoglycemia. They 
had larger ischemic lesions on computer tomography (CT) than diabetics and had 
higher 30-day mortality than normoglycemics (p<0.05). One-year mortality was 
similar in transient hyperglycemics and diabetics, and both were significantly 
higher than in normoglycemics (p<0.05). A proportional hazards model analysis 
showed that transient hyperglycemia is not an independent predictor of death 
within a year after stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00566-4
PMID: 11535240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Prev Vet Med. 2001 Oct 11;51(3-4):149-60. doi:
10.1016/s0167-5877(01)00243-4.

The impact of Theileria parva infections and other factors on calf mean daily 
weight gains in smallholder dairy farms in Murang'a District, Kenya.

Gitau GK(1), McDermott JJ, McDermott B, Perry BD.

Author information:
(1)International Livestock Research Institute, P.O. Box 30709, Nairobi, Kenya. 
g.gitau@cgiar.org

The association between mean daily weight gain, Theileria parva infections, 
clinical East Coast fever and other possible determinants of weight gain were 
examined in a longitudinal observational study that was conducted in cohorts of 
female calves from five agro-ecological zone (AEZ)-grazing strata. The strata 
were upper-midlands (UM) 1 zero-grazing, UM 1 open-grazing, UM 2 zero-grazing, 
UM 4 zero-grazing and UM 4 open-grazing. In total, 225 calves on 188 smallholder 
dairy farms were visited within the first 2 weeks of life and thereafter at 
biweekly intervals up to the age of 6 months between March 1995 and August 1996. 
During each visit, the calves were weighed and other calf-management practices 
in the farm during the visit such as housing, feeding and tick control also were 
recorded. Other events such as morbidity and mortality between or during the 
visits were also recorded. The overall mean daily weight gains were 0.24-0.29 kg 
(S.D.=0.17-0.22 kg) and were lower than the recommended targets for smallholder 
farms of 0.40-0.50 kg. The major tendency in variability of daily weight gains 
was due to visit-to-visit variation (especially in calves >3 months old). 
Differences in mean daily gains were associated with AEZ-grazing strata and 
calf-level factors that included breed of calf, calf sickness, incidence of ECF, 
feeding of milk, concentrate feeds and minerals and interaction between calf age 
and AEZ-grazing strata (P<0.05). ECF and other calf sicknesses exerted a 
temporal effect on calf-growth at the height of illness and immediately after; 
calves later recovered the lost growth except where other factors such as poor 
calf nutrition prevailed. Improvement in calf-growth in Murang'a District is 
achievable and extension services should continue to target 
individual-calf-level management practices.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5877(01)00243-4
PMID: 11535277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2001 Sep;10(9):937-41.

Markers of insulin resistance and colorectal cancer mortality.

Trevisan M(1), Liu J, Muti P, Misciagna G, Menotti A, Fucci F; Risk Factors and 
Life Expectancy Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, State University of New York at 
Buffalo, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo, New York 14214, 
USA.trevisan@buffalo.edu

A link between insulin metabolism and colorectal cancer has been hypothesized, 
supported by a series of potential physiological mechanisms, and confirmed by a 
number of reports in experimental animals. However, the evidence in humans is 
limited and mostly indirect. The aim of the present report is to analyze whether 
individuals with a cluster of metabolic abnormalities associated with 
abnormalities in insulin metabolism experience higher mortality for colorectal 
cancer than those without this cluster of metabolic abnormalities. A total of 
21,311 men and 15,991 women 20-69 years of age were followed-up for an average 
of 7 years as part of the Risk Factors and Life Expectancy Project, a pooling of 
a number of epidemiological studies conducted in Italy. Our analyses indicate 
that participants with high levels of blood glucose and a cluster of metabolic 
abnormalities linked to insulin resistance experienced a significant increased 
risk of colorectal cancer mortality compared with participants without the 
cluster. For the presence of the cluster of metabolic abnormalities, the 
calculated hazard ratios and 95% CIs were 2.96 (1.05-8.31) for men, 2.71 
(0.59-12.50) for women, and 2.99 (1.27-7.01) when both sexes were combined. 
These associations were independent from the potential confounding effect of 
age, drinking of alcoholic beverages, and smoking. Our findings are supportive 
of the hypotheses that glucose metabolism hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, 
and metabolic abnormalities associated with it may play a significant role in 
the etiology of colorectal cancer.

PMID: 11535544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Forum (Genova). 2000 Oct-Dec;10(4):323-32.

Medical therapy of advanced malignant epithelial tumours of the ovary.

Colombo N(1), Parma G, Bocciolone L, Franchi D, Sideri M, Maggioni A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Europeo di Oncologia, Divisione di Ginecologia Oncologica, Milano, 
Italy.

Despite improvements seen in median and overall survival using a combination of 
platinum-compounds and paclitaxel (PTX), long-term survival rates for patients 
with advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma remain disappointing and ongoing 
efforts have aimed to develop more effective primary therapy. In the early 
1990Os the drug PTX was first tested in ovarian cancer. In the Gynaecological 
Oncology Group (GOG) trial 111 the cisplatin (CP)+PTX regimen was judged to be 
superior compared to the platinum-based control arm with an improvement of 
overall response rate, median progression-free interval and overall median 
survival. These favourable data were confirmed by a European-Canadian Intergroup 
trial (OV10). In contrast, in a further GOG trial (GOG132) there was no 
difference in survival between CP alone and the combination of PTX and CP. The 
International Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm Study (ICON)3 is the first and only 
trial comparing PTX plus carboplatin against carboplatin alone or a (non-taxane) 
CP-based control arm. The last analysis performed with a total of 1,293 events 
showed an estimated absolute difference in one-year progression-free survival of 
1% and in two-year overall survival of 2% both in favour of PTX plus 
carboplatin. The results of ICON3, in accordance with GOG132 study, appear to 
contradict the earlier positive results seen for PTX and CP in the GOG-111 and 
OV10 trials and suggested that single agent carboplatin, CY-adriamycin-CP are 
safe and effective first-line treatments for women requiring chemotherapy for 
ovarian cancer. A meta-analysis with individual patient data is warranted to 
better clarify the issue of PTX in the front line therapy of advanced ovarian 
cancer. Salvage chemotherapy is often utilised in patients with advanced ovarian 
cancer, due to the high frequency of recurrent disease even after a clinical or 
pathological complete response after primary chemotherapy. Main objectives of 
salvage chemotherapy include: i. improvement in quality of life and symptoms; 
ii. tumour load reduction and survival advantage; iii. evaluation of potentially 
active new drugs to be included in first-line. Since the goal is palliation in 
most cases, monotherapy is generally indicated. However, the chances of response 
are directly related to the treatment-free interval, with a response rate nearly 
equivalent to that of primary chemotherapy when the treatment-free interval 
exceeds 24 months. Extension of the platinum-free interval before re-treatment 
with platinum or taxanes may allow partial reversal of resistance to these 
agents which can therefore still show significant activity in relapsing 
patients. Unfortunately, durable response to salvage chemotherapy is rare and 
cure is almost impossible. The sequential use of the agents currently available 
for salvage treatment in monotherapy may transform ovarian cancer into a chronic 
disease and confers long survival to the patients. Perhaps, the most interesting 
role of second-line chemotherapy is to identify new potentially active drugs, 
which can be moved up-front. Most of the compounds used in second line 
(gemcitabine, topotecan, liposomal doxorubicin) are in fact under investigation 
to develop alternative schedules and sequences of drug administration. A new 
phase III multi-national randomised study for patients with advanced stage 
epithelial ovarian or primary periperitoneal carcinoma will evaluate the impact 
of incorporating a new drug within either a platinum-based triplet (new drug + 
platinum + PTX) or a sequential-doublet (new drug + platinum followed by 
platinum + PTX) in order to identify one or more experimental regimens able to 
improve long-term survival with acceptable toxicity.

PMID: 11535983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2001 Aug;16(8):810-5. doi: 10.1002/gps.419.

Factors associated with mortality in patients with early-onset Alzheimer's 
disease: a five-year longitudinal study.

Ueki A(1), Shinjo H, Shimode H, Nakajima T, Morita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Hyogo College of Medicine, 1-1 Mukogawa-cho, 
Nishinomiya, Hyogo 663-8501, Japan.

To identify neuropsychiatric and somatic factors related to survival in 
early-onset Alzheimer's disease, we longitudinally studied 108 patients (35 
male, 73 female) with early-onset Alzheimer's disease who were 46 to 64 years 
old at onset and 50 to 69 years old when diagnosed at our institution. A 
five-year follow-up, 30 patients had died. Pneumonia was the most common cause 
(73%), followed by malignancy (20%) and heart disease (7%). Kaplan-Meier 
survival curves showed a lower survival rate in patients with early-onset 
Alzheimer's disease than in age- and sex-matched life-table data in Japan. In 
Cox proportional hazards analysis, male gender, early disease onset, concurrent 
physical illness at time of diagnosis, and a low mini-mental state examination 
score increased the likelihood of death in patients with early-onset Alzheimer's 
disease. Our study confirmed that these patients have considerable excess 
mortality and a different pattern of cause of death than in the general 
population. Gender, age at onset, physical illness, and cognitive function 
strongly influenced survival. These factors may be predictors of mortality in 
patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease that are useful in counseling 
patients and their families.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.419
PMID: 11536348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Acta Astronaut. 1991;23:253-62. doi: 10.1016/0094-5765(91)90125-o.

Lunar base extension program and closed loop life support systems.

Nitta K(1), Ohya H.

Author information:
(1)National Aerospace Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan.

Much of papers describing the Lunar Base Construction have been already 
published. Lunar Base has been considered to be one of the very useful 
facilities to conduct the excellent scientific program in near future and also 
to develop the lunar resources such as 3He and oxygen in order to expand the 
human activities in space. The scale of lunar base and the construction methods 
to be adopted should be determined based upon the utilization program to be 
conducted after the initiation of outpost habitation. In order to construct 
lunar base, it needs to transport lunar base elements such as habitat modules, 
experiment modules and so on having 20-30 tons weight and to install, connect 
and activate on lunar surface. The development of transportation system such as 
OTV enabling to transport over 30 ton payload weight from earth to moon seems to 
be very difficult in near future, and it seems reasonable to transport three 
elements per year as described in many papers already published. Therefore, the 
initial habitat outpost would not have enough volume to produce foods and has to 
have ECLS system similar to that of space station already going to be developed. 
After 2-3 years from the initiation of habitation, the addition of food 
production facilities could be started to expand the habitability of lunar base 
and finally the complete closed loop life support system could be installed 
after spending 6-7 years. This paper describes ECLS technologies to be used in 
the initial habitat outpost and design philosophy of the closed loop 
technologies to be utilized in the final stage.

DOI: 10.1016/0094-5765(91)90125-o
PMID: 11537132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Adv Space Res. 1986;6(11):153-65. doi: 10.1016/0273-1177(86)90288-7.

Early and late mammalian responses to heavy charged particles.

Ainsworth EJ(1).

Collaborators: Ainsworth EJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.
(2)U CA, Berkeley

This overview summarizes murine results on acute lethality responses, 
inactivation of marrow CFU-S and intestinal microcolonies, testes weight loss, 
life span shortening, and posterior lens opacification in mice irradiated with 
heavy charged particles. RBE-LET relationships for these mammalian responses are 
compared with results from in vitro studies. The trend is that the maximum RBE 
for in vivo responses tends to be lower and occurs at a lower LET than for 
inactivation of V79 and T-1 cells in culture. Based on inactivation cross 
sections, the response of CFU-S in vivo conforms to expectations from earlier 
studies with prokaryotic systems and mammalian cells in culture. Effects of 
heavy ions are compared with fission spectrum neutrons, and the results are 
consistent with the interpretation that RBEs are lower than for fission neutrons 
at about the same LET, probably due to differences in track structure. Issues 
discussed focus on challenges associated with assessments of early and late 
effects of charged particles based on dose, RBE and LET, and with the 
concordance or discordance of results obtained with in vivo and in vitro model 
systems. Models for radiation damage/repair and misrepair should consider 
effects observed with in vivo as well as in vitro model systems.

DOI: 10.1016/0273-1177(86)90288-7
PMID: 11537215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Adv Space Res. 1986;6(11):275-83. doi: 10.1016/0273-1177(86)90303-0.

Animal studies of life shortening and cancer risk from space radiation.

Wood DH(1), Yochmowitz MG, Hardy KA, Salmon YL.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Sciences Division, USAF School of Aerospace Medicine, Brooks AFB, 
TX 78235-5301.

The U.S. Air Force study of the delayed effects of single, total body exposures 
to simulated space radiation in rhesus monkeys is now in its 21st year. 
Observations on 301 irradiated and 57 age-matched control animals indicate that 
life expectancy loss from exposure to protons in the energy range encountered in 
the Van Allen belts and solar proton events can be expressed as a logarithmic 
function of the dose. The primary causes of life shortening are cancer and 
endometriosis (an abnormal proliferation of the lining of the uterus in 
females). Life shortening estimates permit comparison of the risk associated 
with space radiation exposures to be compared with that of other occupational 
and environmental hazards, thereby facilitating risk/benefit decisions in the 
planning and operational phases of manned space missions. Calculations of the 
relative risk of fatal cancers in the irradiated subjects reveal that the total 
body surface dose required to double the risk of death from cancer over a 
20-year post exposure period varies with the linear energy transfer (LET) of the 
radiation. The ability to determine the integrated dose and LET spectrum in 
space radiation exposures of humans is, therefore, critical to the assessment of 
lifetime cancer risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0273-1177(86)90303-0
PMID: 11537232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Adv Space Res. 1987;7(4):141-8. doi: 10.1016/0273-1177(87)90045-7.

Mass balances for a biological life support system simulation model.

Volk T(1), Rummel JD.

Collaborators: Volk T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Science, New York University 10003.
(2)NYU, Dept Applied Science

Design decisions to aid the development of future space-based biological life 
support systems (BLSS) can be made with simulation models. Here we develop the 
biochemical stoichiometry for 1) protein, carbohydrate, fat, fiber, and lignin 
production in the edible and inedible parts of plants; 2) food consumption and 
production of organic solids in urine, feces, and wash water by the humans; and 
3) operation of the waste processor. Flux values for all components are derived 
for a steady-state system with wheat as the sole food source. The large-scale 
dynamics of a materially-closed (BLSS) computer model is described in a 
companion paper. An extension of this methodology can explore multi-food systems 
and more complex biochemical dynamics while maintaining whole-system closure as 
a focus.

DOI: 10.1016/0273-1177(87)90045-7
PMID: 11537263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. HortScience. 1992 May;27(5):427-30.

Importance of 'blue' photon levels for lettuce seedlings grown under 
red-light-emitting diodes.

Hoenecke ME(1), Bula RJ, Tibbitts TW.

Collaborators: Tibbitts TW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.
(2)U Wisconsin, Madison, Dept Horticulture

Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with high-intensity output are being studied as a 
photosynthetic light source for plants. High-output LEDs have peak emission at 
approximately 660 nm concentrated in a waveband of +/- 30 nm. Lettuce (Lactuca 
sativa Grand Rapids') seedlings developed extended hypocotyls and elongated 
cotyledons when grown under these LEDs as a sole source of irradiance. This 
extension and elongation was prevented when the red LED radiation was 
supplemented with more than 15 micromoles m-2 s-1 of 400- to 500-nm photons from 
blue fluorescent lamps. Blue radiation effects were independent of the photon 
level of the red radiation.

PMID: 11537611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Life Support Biosph Sci. 1994 Winter;1(1):11-3.

NASA and Russian Space Agency sign agreement for additional Space Shuttle/Mir 
missions.

Huff W.

On December 16, 1993 NASA Administrator Daniel S. Goldin [correction of Golden] 
and the Russian Space Agency (RSA) director Yuri Koptev signed a protocol 
agreeing to up to 10 Shuttle flights to Mir with a total of 24 months time 
aboard Mir for U.S. astronants, a program of scientific and technological 
research, and the upgrade and extension of the Mir lifetime during the period 
1995-1997. This is the first of a three-phase program in human spaceflight 
cooperation which may culminate in the construction of an international Space 
Station. This agreement starts joint development of spacecraft environmental 
control and life support systems and potential common space suit.

PMID: 11538575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Gravit Physiol. 1994 May;1(1):P5-7.

Disuse and aging: same problem, different outcomes.

Timiras PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley 
94720, USA.

Many of the changes that accompany physical inactivity coincide with those that 
occur during aging. These changes are generally grouped under the term of 
'disuse' (or "lack of use" or "inappropriately modulated stimulation"). Studies 
of long-term space travel have revealed that weightlessness in space also 
induces changes resembling those of aging and physical inactivity. The 
relationship between disuse (due to bed rest, insufficient exercise, or lack of 
gravity) and aging has some definite practical implications. As life expectancy 
is lenghtened in all populations worldwide, the number of elderly with varying 
degrees of disability leading to reduced physical activity also increases. 
Changes induced by bed rest as a consequence of disease may also be superimposed 
on aging changes and further diminish physiologic reserves and accelerate 
pathology. Therefore, the study of disuse, irrespective of its etiology, may 
serve as a model for understanding not only some of the functional changes 
induced by lack of activity and/or gravity but also some of the disabilities of 
old age. Indeed, a better understanding of disuse phenomena will make it 
possible to establish programs of prevention and rehabilitation that will 
ameliorate both disuse and aging deficits.

PMID: 11538760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. J Am Soc Hortic Sci. 1996 May;121(3):576-81.

Identifying yield-optimizing environments for two cowpea breeding lines by 
manipulating photoperiod and harvest scenario.

Ohler TA(1), Mitchell CA.

Collaborators: Mitchell CA(2).

Author information:
(1)NASA Specialized Center of Research and Training in Bioregenerative Life 
Support, Department of Horticulture, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 
47907-1165, USA.
(2)Purdue U, West Lafayette, IN

Photoperiod and harvest scenario of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) canopies 
were manipulated to optimize productivity for use in future controlled 
ecological life-support systems. Productivity was measured by edible yield rate 
