(EYR:g m-2 day-1), shoot harvest index (SHI: g edible biomass [g total shoot dry 
weight]), and yield-efficiency rate (YER:g edible biomass m-2 day-1 per[g 
nonedible shoot dry weight]). Breeding lines 'IT84S-2246' (S-2246) and 
"IT82D-889' (D-889) were grown in a greenhouse under 8-, 12-, or 24-h 
photoperiods. S-2246 was short-day and D-889 was day-neutral for flowering. 
Under each photoperiod, cowpeas were harvested either for leaves only, seeds 
only, or leaves plus seeds (mixed harvest). Photoperiod did not affect EYR of 
either breeding line for any harvest scenario tested. Averaged over both 
breeding lines, seed harvest gave the highest EYR at 6.7 g m-2 day-1. The 
highest SHI (65%) and YER (94 mg m-2 day-1 g-1) were achieved for leaf-only 
harvest of D-889 under an 8-h photoperiod. For leaf-only harvest of S-2246, both 
SHI and YER increased with increasing photoperiod, but declined for seed-only 
and mixed harvests. However, photoperiod had no effect on SHI or YER for D-889 
for any harvest scenario. A second experiment utilized the short-day cowpea 
breeding line 'IT89KD-288' (D-288) and the day-neutral breeding line 
'IT87D-941-1' (D-941) to compare yield parameters using photoperiod extension 
under differing lamp types. This experiment confirmed the photoperiod responses 
of D-889 and S-2246 to a mixed-harvest scenario and indicated that daylength 
extension with higher irradiance from high pressure sodium lamps further 
suppressed EYR, SHI, and YER of the short-day breeding line D-288.

PMID: 11539355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Aerosp Am. 1997 Jun;35(6):34-8.

Mir: a health report.

Possehl SR.

NASA: The current equipment and safety status of the Russian space station Mir 
is discussed. Mir has operated past its expected life expectancy and has been 
having an increasing number of equipment failures and problems. The Russian 
system of addressing equipment repairs and maintenance is examined along with 
implications for the future International Space Station.

PMID: 11539589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Life Support Biosph Sci. 1997;4(1-2):55-9.

In vitro food production for isolated closed environments: formation of ripe 
tomato fruits from excised flower buds.

Applewhite PB(1), K-Sawhney R, Galston AW.

Collaborators: Galston AW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.
(2)Yale U, New Haven, CT

Excised preanthesis flower buds of young Pixie Hybrid tomato plants develop into 
red ripe fruits in aseptic culture on a modified Murashige-Skoog medium with 3% 
sucrose at pH 5.8. The addition of certain synthetic auxins (IAA, NAA, IBA), 
auxin precursors (ISA), or cytokinins (KIN, IPA, ZEA, BAP) to the medium 
improved the percentage of buds developing into fruits, the weight of the ripe 
fruits, or both. The best results were obtained by an auxin-cytokinin 
combination of 10 microM IBA with 1 microM BAP. Storage of the excised buds at 
low temperature (6 degrees C) for up to 4 weeks before transfer to 27 degrees C 
caused only minimal deterioration in size and number of the fruit crop. 
Extension of low-temperature storage to 8 weeks produced smaller fruits that 
took longer to develop. This system could produce fresh, ripe small tomatoes on 
a sustained basis for up to 2 months for an isolated environment such as a space 
vehicle or submarine.

PMID: 11540453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Am Soc Hortic Sci. 1998 Mar;123(2):239-45.

The role of ethylene in the development of constant-light injury of potato and 
tomato.

Cushman KE(1), Tibbitts TW.

Collaborators: Tibbitts TW(2).

Author information:
(1)North Mississippi Research and Extension Center, Mississippi State 
University, Verona 38879, USA.
(2)U WI, Madison

The role of ethylene in the development of constant-light injury of potato 
(Solanum tuberosum L.) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) was 
investigated. In one study, silver thiosulfate (STS) was applied to the foliage 
of four potato cultivars growing under constant light. Leaf area and shoot dry 
mass of 'Kennebec' and 'Superior', cultivars normally injured by constant light, 
were greater (P < 0.05) than those of control plants given foliar applications 
of distilled water. Examination of STS-treated 'Kennebec' leaflets revealed 
significantly less injury (necrotic spotting and reduced starch content) than 
the water-treated controls. 'Norland' and 'Denali', cultivars tolerant of 
constant light, exhibited no differences in growth between treatments. In a 
second study, injury (necrotic spotting and reduced starch content) was induced 
in leaflets of 'Denali' when exposed to spray applications of 0.5 mmol L-1 
ethephon or air containing 0.5 to 0.8 microL L-1 ethylene. In a third study, 
three genotypes of 'Ailsa Craig' tomato were grown under constant light. Leaves 
of the normal 'Ailsa Craig' exhibited epinasty, reduced chlorophyll 
concentration, and reduced starch content. Leaves of a mutant 'Ailsa Craig', 
containing the Never ripe mutation, did not exhibit epinasty but exhibited the 
same amount of reduced chlorophyll concentration and starch content as normal 
plants. Leaves of a transgenic 'Ailsa Craig', containing an antisense gene of 
1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase, were epinastic, but chlorophyll 
concentration and starch content were greater than in leaves of normal and 
mutant plants. These results suggest that transgenic plants were more tolerant 
of constant light than the other genotypes. Evidence from these studies 
indicates that ethylene, combined with constant light, has an important role in 
the development of constant-light injury.

PMID: 11541112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Acta Astronaut. 1997 Aug-Nov;41(4-10):609-11. doi: 
10.1016/s0094-5765(98)00055-1.

Astrobiology from exobiology: Viking and the current Mars probes.

Soffen GA(1).

Author information:
(1)HQ, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Washington, DC 20546-0001, 
USA.

The development of an Astrobiology Program is an extension of current exobiology 
programs. Astrobiology is the scientific study of the origin, distribution, 
evolution, and future of life in the universe. It encompasses exobiology; 
formation of elements, stars, planets, and organic molecules; initiation of 
replicating organisms; biological evolution; gravitational biology; and human 
exploration. Current interest in life on Mars provides the scientific community 
with an example of scientific inquiry that has mass appeal. Technology is mature 
enough to search for life in the universe.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-5765(98)00055-1
PMID: 11541152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Gravit Physiol. 1997 Jan;4(1):S22-30.

Changes in force-velocity and power output of upper and lower extremity 
musculature in young subjects following 20 days bed rest.

Funato K(1), Matsuo A, Yata H, Akima H, Suzuki Y, Gunji A, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), The University of of Tokyo.

Ten healthy sedentary students were exposed to 20 days bed rest (BR) to study 
the effect of simulated weightlessness on force(F)-velocity(V) characteristics 
and power(P) output of upper and lower limb movements. F, V and P were measured 
using a special dynamometer applicable to single joint movements [elbow 
flexion(EF) and extension(EE), knee flexion(KF) and extension(KE), and hip 
flexion] or multi-joint movements (squatting). Physiological cross-sectional 
areas(PCSA) of KF and KE muscles were measured by a magnetic resonance imaging 
technique. After BR, attenuation in P were observed in lower limb movements 
(decreased by 19.8-43.6% for squatting, KF and KE), in upper limb movements on 
the other hand, the decreases in P were not significant (approximately -5% for 
EF and EE). Decrease in P in lower limb were more pronounced in heavier loaded 
conditions which were characterized by decreases in both F and V. For KF and KE, 
decreases in maximal static F (-18.9 to approximately -26.8%) were more 
pronounced than the decreases observed in the PCSA (approximately -7%), 
resulting in decreases in specific tension (-12.3 to approximately -22.1%). 
Neural excitation potentials to generate maximal muscle tension or P might also 
be influenced by weightlessness.

PMID: 11541172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Biol Sci Space. 1998 Jun;12(2):131-5. doi: 10.2187/bss.12.131.

Analysis of lipid components in zooplankter individuals by reactive 
pyrolysis-gas chromatography in the presence of organic alkali.

Ishida Y(1), Ohtani H, Tsuge S, Sekino T, Nakanishi M, Kimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry, Nagoya University, Japan.

It has been eagerly requested to develop a highly-sensitive method to 
characterize extremely minute amounts of natural organic materials occluded in 
meteorites and/or space dusts in order to confirm the existence of life in the 
extraterrestrial space. In this article, the reactive pyrolysis-gas 
chromatography (Py-GC) applied to the analysis of the lipid components contained 
in every zooplankter individual is introduced for the sake of its potential 
extension to the characterization of trace amounts of the extraterrestrial 
organic materials. Here, Py-GC was applied to 1) the discriminative analysis 
among zooplankter individuals cultured in different food concentrations, and 2) 
the correlation analysis between the distributions of fatty acid components in 
the lipids of zooplankter individuals and ingested algae phytoplankton.

DOI: 10.2187/bss.12.131
PMID: 11541881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Mol Struct. 1989;199:183-8. doi: 10.1016/0166-1280(89)80050-8.

From non-random molecular structure to life and mind.

Fox SW(1).

Collaborators: Fox SW(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Molecular and Cellular Evolution, University of Miami, FL 
33177, USA.
(2)U Houston, TX

The evolutionary hierarchy molecular structure-->macromolecular 
structure-->protobiological structure-->biological structure-->biological 
functions has been traced by experiments. The sequence always moves through 
protein. Extension of the experiments traces the formation of nucleic acids 
instructed by proteins. The proteins themselves were, in this picture, 
instructed by the self-sequencing of precursor amino acids. While the sequence 
indicated explains the thread of the emergence of life, protein in cellular 
membrane also provides the only known material basis for the emergence of mind 
in the context of emergence of life.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-1280(89)80050-8
PMID: 11542182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Gravit Physiol. 1999 Jul;6(1):P129-32.

The endocrinology of aging and its relationship to space physiology.

Strollo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Italian National Research Centers on Aging INRCA, Rome, Italy.

During the last century the number of people over 65 years of age has increased 
more than four-fold in the industrialized countries and by the year 2030 might 
account for 20% of the population. Life expectancy at birth is now about 75 (vs. 
47 in 1900) and at 75 is 86 years. The scientific community is thus getting more 
and more interested in understanding the behavioral and clinical features of 
centenarians. During aging many endocrine systems undergo anatomic and 
functional changes at different times and with variable intensities, depending 
on individual genotypes and phenotypes. The most common finding is impaired 
anabolism, rather than increased catabolism, so that the hypothesis has been put 
forward that aging itself stems from the functional deterioration of the 
endocrine system. From a practical point of view, two main questions arise: (i) 
to which extent the endocrine glands accelerate physical decay?; (ii) may 
hormonal replacement ensure health at least longer than nowadays?

PMID: 11542990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Am Potato J. 1999 Nov-Dec;76(6):337-43. doi: 10.1007/BF02910006.

Glycoalkaloids in potato tubers grown under controlled environments.

Nitithamyong A(1), Vonelbe JH, Wheeler RM, Tibbitts TW.

Collaborators: Tibbitts TW(2).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Institute, Mahidol University, Salaya, Thailand.
(2)U WI, Madison

Tuber content of alpha-solanine, alpha-chaconine, and total glycoalkaloids (TGA) 
was determined for the potato cultivars, Norland, Russet Burbank, and Denali 
grown under different environmental conditions in growth chambers. The lowest 
TGA concentrations (0.30 to 0.35 mg g-1 dry tissue) were found in the cv. 
Norland with 400 micromoles m-2 s-1 photosynthetic photon flux (PPF), 12 h day 
length, 16 C temperature, and 350 micromoles mol-1 carbon dioxide. The ratio of 
alpha-chaconine to alpha-solanine was close to 60:40 under all growing 
conditions, except that it was 50:50 under the low temperature of 12 C. 
Cultivars responded similarly to environmental conditions although TGA was about 
20% greater in cv. Russet Burbank and about 30% greater in Denali compared to 
Norland. The largest changes in TGA occurred with changes in temperature. In 
comparison to 16 C, TGA were 40% greater at 12 C, 80% greater at 20 C, and 125% 
greater at 24 C (0.70 mg g-1 dry weight). The TGA concentration increased from 
10 to 25% with an increase in light from 400 to 800 micromoles m-2 s-1 PPF for 
all three cultivars. TGA increased 20% with extension of the day length from 12 
to 24 hr and also increased 20% when carbon dioxide was increased from 350 to 
1000 micromoles mol-1. TGA concentrations were not influenced by changes in 
relative humidity from 50 to 80%. TGA concentrations decreased only slightly in 
harvests made from 9 to 21 weeks after planting. Variations in TGA among the 
different growing conditions and cultivars were below 20 mg/100 g fresh weight 
(approximately 1.0 mg g-1 dry weight) recognized as the upper concentration for 
food safety. However the results suggest that TGA should be considered when 
potatoes are grown at temperatures above 20 C.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02910006
PMID: 11543354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Clin Invest. 2001 Sep;108(5):725-32. doi: 10.1172/JCI11909.

Cyclin D1 overexpression and p53 inactivation immortalize primary oral 
keratinocytes by a telomerase-independent mechanism.

Opitz OG(1), Suliman Y, Hahn WC, Harada H, Blum HE, Rustgi AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 2001 Sep;108(5):665-7.

The immortalization of human cells is a critical step in multistep 
carcinogenesis. Oral-esophageal carcinomas, a model system to investigate 
molecular mechanisms underlying squamous carcinogenesis, frequently involve 
cyclin D1 overexpression and inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor. 
Therefore, our goal was to establish the functional role of cyclin D1 
overexpression and p53 inactivation in the immortalization of primary human oral 
squamous epithelial cells (keratinocytes) as an important step toward malignant 
transformation. Cyclin D1 overexpression alone was found to induce extension of 
the replicative life span of normal oral keratinocytes, whereas the combination 
of cyclin D1 overexpression and p53 inactivation led to their immortalization. 
This study also demonstrates that immortalization of oral keratinocytes can be 
independent of telomerase activation, involving an alternative pathway of 
telomere maintenance (ALT).

DOI: 10.1172/JCI11909
PMCID: PMC209376
PMID: 11544278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Tob Control. 2001 Sep;10(3):273-8. doi: 10.1136/tc.10.3.273.

Abstention from smoking extends life and compresses morbidity: a population 
based study of health expectancy among smokers and never smokers in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate health expectancy--that is, the average lifetime in good 
health--among never smokers, ex-smokers, and smokers in Denmark.
DESIGN: A method suggested by Peto and colleagues in 1992 for estimating smoking 
attributable mortality rates was used to construct a life table for never 
smokers. This life table and relative risks for death for ex-smokers and smokers 
versus never smokers were used to estimate life tables for ex-smokers and 
smokers. Life tables and prevalence rates of health status were combined and 
health expectancy was calculated by Sullivan's method.
SETTING: The Danish adult population.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The expected lifetime in self rated good health or 
without longstanding illness for never smokers and smokers.
RESULTS: The expected lifetime of a 20 year old man who will never begin to 
smoke is 56.7 years, 48.7 (95% confidence interval (CI), 46.8 to 50.7) years of 
which are expected to be in self rated good health. The corresponding figures 
for a man who smokes heavily are 49.5 years, 36.5 (95% CI 35.0 to 38.1 ) years 
of which are in self rated good health. A 20 year old woman who will never begin 
to smoke can expect to live a further 60.9 years, with 46.4 (95% CI 44.9 to 
47.8) years in self rated good health; if she is a lifelong heavy smoker, her 
expected lifetime is reduced to 53.8 years, 33.8 (95% CI 31.7 to 35.9) years of 
which are in self rated good health. Health expectancy based on long standing 
illness is reduced for smokers when compared with never smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking reduces the expected lifetime in good health and increases 
the expected lifetime in poor health.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.10.3.273
PMCID: PMC1747595
PMID: 11544393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Zh Obshch Biol. 2001 Mar-Apr;62(2):110-31.

[Analysis of survival and mortality curves with the model of vital receptors. 
The maximal life span. Effect of temperature on the life span. The mortality 
probability density function (mortality curve) and its parameters].

[Article in Russian]

Poltorakov AP(1).

Author information:
(1)N. N. Semenov Institute of Chemical Physics, Russian Academy of Science, 
Kosygin str. 4, Moscow 117977, Russia. poltorakov@mtu-net.ru

We have continued an analysis of survival curves by the model of the vital 
receptors (MVR). The main types survival function (E-, TW- and GM-distributions) 
have been considered. It was found that the maximal life span depends on the 
threshold concentration of vital receptors. Equations are obtained for the 
dependence of the maximal life span on the kinetic parameters in the reactions 
of inactivation, destruction and inactivation. Dependence of maximal time life 
on initial size of the population have been considered. The influence of 
temperature on the survival curves is analysed by E-distribution. Equations are 
founded for the description of thermosurvival and thermoinactivation curves. 
Equation are obtained for the dependence of density function and it 
characteristics (modal and antimodal age, coefficient of asymmetry) on the MVR 
parameters. It was shown that E-, TW- and GM-distribution has different types of 
asymmetry. The coefficient of asymmetry of GM-distribution is associated on the 
MVR parameters. It is assumed that symmetry of the curves of mortality and 
birth-rate is coordinated by the mechanisms of MVR.

PMID: 11544769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. World Rev Nutr Diet. 2001;90:102-9. doi: 10.1159/000059810.

Role of physical activity in ensuring nutritional well-being in the elderly.

Wahlqvist ML(1), Setter TL, Savige GS, Kouris-Blazos A.

Author information:
(1)International Health & Development Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and 
Health Sciences, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

DOI: 10.1159/000059810
PMID: 11545036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Int J Food Microbiol. 2001 Aug 15;68(1-2):1-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-1605(01)00436-6.

Combined effect of antimicrobial coating and gamma irradiation on shelf life 
extension of pre-cooked shrimp (Penaeus spp.).

Ouattara B(1), Sabato SF, Lacroix M.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Irradiarian Center, Research Center in Microbiology and 
Biotechnology, INRS-Institut Armand-Frappier, Laval, Quebec.

The present study was conducted to evaluate the combined effect of low-dose 
gamma irradiation and antimicrobial coating on the shelf life of pre-cooked 
shrimp (Penaeus spp.). Antimicrobial coatings were obtained by incorporating 
various concentrations of thyme oil and trans-cinnamaldehyde in coating 
formulations prepared from soy or whey protein isolates. Coated shrimps were 
stored at 4 +/- 1 degrees C under aerobic conditions and were periodically 
evaluated for aerobic plate counts (APCs) and Pseudomonas putida. Sensory 
evaluations were performed for appearance, odor, and taste using a hedonic test. 
Results showed that gamma irradiation and coating treatments had synergistic 
effects (p < or = 0.05) in reducing the APCs and P. putida with at least a 
12-day extension of shelf life. Without irradiation, the inhibitory effects of 
the coating solutions were closely related to the concentration of thyme oil and 
trans-cinnamaldehyde. No detrimental effects of gamma irradiation on 
organoleptic parameters (appearance, odor, and taste) were observed. However, 
incorporation of thyme oil and trans-cinnamaldehyde reduced the acceptability 
scores for taste and odor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1605(01)00436-6
PMID: 11545208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Am J Cardiol. 2001 Aug 15;88(4):371-5. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01681-2.

Dual-site atrial pacing for atrial fibrillation in patients without bradycardia.

Lau CP(1), Tse HF, Yu CM, Teo WS, Kam R, Ng KS, Huang SS, Lin JL, Fitts SM, 
Hettrick DA, Hill MR; New Indication for Preventive Pacing in Atrial 
Fibrillation (NIPP-AF) Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, China. cplau@hkucc.hku.hk

Atrial pacing has been shown to delay the onset of atrial fibrillation (AF) when 
compared with ventricular pacing in patients with sick sinus syndrome. The role 
for pacing in the control of AF in patients without bradycardia is uncertain. We 
performed a randomized, crossover, single-blinded study in 22 patients (14 
women, aged 63 +/- 10 years) with paroxysmal AF refractory to treatment with 
oral sotalol (202 +/- 68 mg/day) and no bradycardic indication for pacing. All 
patients received a dual-chamber pacemaker with 2 atrial pacing leads positioned 
at the high right atrium and coronary sinus ostium, respectively. Patients were 
randomized in a crossover fashion to be paced for 12 weeks, either with high 
right atrial (RA) pacing at 30 beats/min ("Off") or dual-site RA pacing with an 
overdrive algorithm that maintained atrial pacing at a rate slightly above the 
sinus rate ("On"). Treatment on resulted in a significantly higher percentage of 
atrial pacing and a reduction in atrial ectopic frequency than the treatment off 
period. The time to the first clinical AF recurrence was prolonged (15 +/- 17 to 
50 +/- 35 days, p = 0.006), and total AF burden was reduced (45 +/- 34% vs 22 
+/- 29%, p = 0.04) in the on-treatment phase. However, there was no difference 
in AF checklist symptom scores or overall quality-of-life measures. Dual-site RA 
pacing with continued sinus overdrive prolonged the time to AF recurrence and 
decreased AF burden in patients with paroxysmal AF. The absence of a major 
impact on symptom control suggests that pacing should be used as an adjunctive 
therapy with other treatment modalities for AF.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(01)01681-2
PMID: 11545756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Science. 2001 Sep 7;293(5536):1845-8. doi: 10.1126/science.1060976.

Control of octopus arm extension by a peripheral motor program.

Sumbre G(1), Gutfreund Y, Fiorito G, Flash T, Hochner B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Interdisciplinary Center for Neuronal 
Computation, Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, 
Israel.

For goal-directed arm movements, the nervous system generates a sequence of 
motor commands that bring the arm toward the target. Control of the octopus arm 
is especially complex because the arm can be moved in any direction, with a 
virtually infinite number of degrees of freedom. Here we show that arm 
extensions can be evoked mechanically or electrically in arms whose connection 
with the brain has been severed. These extensions show kinematic features that 
are almost identical to normal behavior, suggesting that the basic motor program 
for voluntary movement is embedded within the neural circuitry of the arm 
itself. Such peripheral motor programs represent considerable simplification in 
the motor control of this highly redundant appendage.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1060976
PMID: 11546877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Med Health Care Philos. 2001;4(2):193-200. doi: 10.1023/a:1011459110432.

Ethical decision making in neonatal units--the normative significance of 
vitality.

Brinchmann BS(1), Nortvedt P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing and Health Care, Centre for Professional Studies, Bodø 
Regional University, Centre for Medical Ethics, University of Oslo, N-8049 Bodø, 
Norway. Berit.Stoere.Brinchmann@hibo.no

This article will be concerned with the phenomenon of vitality, which emerged as 
one of the main findings in a larger grounded theory study about life and death 
decisions in hospitals' neonatal units. Definite signs showing the new-born 
infant's energy and vigour contributed to the clinician's judgements about life 
expectancy and the continuation or termination of medical treatment. In this 
paper we will discuss the normative importance of vitality as a diagnostic cue 
and will argue that vitality, as a sign perceived by doctors and nurses, has 
moral significance and represents a legitimate contribution to clinical 
decision-making in difficult cases where the child's life is at stake. We will 
argue that these clinical intuitions can be justified on a moral basis but only 
with certain qualifications that accounts for a certain objectivity and 
intersubjective reliability in the therapeutic judgements.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011459110432
PMID: 11547505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Oncol Manag. 2001 Jul-Aug;10(3):11-7.

Economic analysis of cancer treatment costs: another tool for oncology managers.

Chirikos TN(1), Ruckdeschel JC, Krischer JP.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute at the University of South 
Florida, Tampa, USA.

Oncology managers increasingly need more information about how much and why 
treatment costs vary across cancer patients. In response to this need, our 
Center is building an analytic capacity for investigating economic aspects of 
cancer treatment. Economic analysis is characterized by a simultaneous 
consideration of treatment costs and outcomes; it focuses on how treatment 
cost/outcome ratios vary across patient populations with similar diseases. In 
this paper, we present an overview of our work, with special emphasis on the 
measurement of outcomes and the inputs or costs of treatment, the variability of 
cost/outcome ratios, and the analysis of the factors that predict or explain 
this observed variation. We illustrate how the analysis is conducted, set out 
selected results relating to lung and breast cancer patients, and assess some of 
the advantages and disadvantages of the approach. Among other things, we 
conclude that economic analysis of cancer treatment costs is feasible and that 
it can provide useful data for managerial decision making.

PMID: 11548179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Health Serv J. 2001 Aug 23;111(5769):31.

Data briefing. Social insurance.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund, UK.

PMID: 11548506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Eur J Cancer. 2001 Sep;37(14):1759-67. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00205-2.

Economic decision analysis model of screening for lung cancer.

Marshall D(1), Simpson KN, Earle CC, Chu CW.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University and Center for Evaluation of Medicines, McMaster 
University, 105 Main Street East, Level P1, ON, L8N 1G6, Hamilton, Canada. 
marshd@mcmaster.ca

The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential clinical and economic 
implications of an annual lung cancer screening programme based on helical 
computed tomography (CT). A decision analysis model was created using combined 
data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registry 
public-use database and published results from the Early Lung Cancer Action 
Project (ELCAP). We found that under optimal conditions in a high risk cohort of 
patients between 60 and 74 years of age, annual lung cancer screening over a 
period of 5 years appears to be cost effective at approximately $19000 per life 
year saved. A sensitivity analysis of the model to account for a 1-year decrease 
in survival benefit and changes in assumptions for incidence rate and costs 
generated cost effectiveness estimates ranging from approximately $10800 to 
$62000 per life year saved. Based on the assumptions embedded in this model, 
annual screening of high risk elderly patients for lung cancer may be cost 
effective under optimal conditions, but longer term data are needed to confirm 
if this will be borne out in practice.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00205-2
PMID: 11549429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Eur J Cancer. 2001 Sep;37(14):1797-804. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00204-0.

Canada's Population Health Model (POHEM): a tool for performing economic 
evaluations of cancer control interventions.

Will BP(1), Berthelot JM, Nobrega KM, Flanagan W, Evans WK.

Author information:
(1)The Health Analysis and Modeling Group, Statistics Canada, 24-Q, R. H. Coats 
Building, ON, K1A OT6, Ottawa, Canada.

This paper describes the Population Health Model (POHEM) developed by Statistics 
Canada and shows its usefulness in the evaluation of cancer control 
interventions and policy decision-making. Models of the costs of diagnosis and 
treatment of lung and breast cancer were developed and incorporated into POHEM. 
Then, POHEM was used to evaluate the economic impact of chemotherapy for 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer; reduced length of hospital stay following 
breast cancer surgery; and the provision of preventive tamoxifen to women at 
high risk of breast cancer. A lung cancer chemotherapy treatment decision 
framework was developed to rank order currently available chemotherapy regimens 
according to relative cost-effectiveness and cost-utility. Reducing 
post-surgical breast cancer hospitalisation with optimal home care support could 
produce major healthcare savings. However, the provision of preventive tamoxifen 
was estimated to have no population health benefit. This paper demonstrates that 
POHEM is an effective tool for performing economic evaluations of cancer control 
interventions and to inform healthcare policy decisions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(01)00204-0
PMID: 11549434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Eur J Med Res. 2001 Aug 27;6(8):345-50.

Diabetes mellitus in patients with cystic fibrosis: the impact of diabetes 
mellitus on pulmonary function and clinical outcome.

Rosenecker J(1), Höfler R, Steinkamp G, Eichler I, Smaczny C, Ballmann M, 
Posselt HG, Bargon J, von der Hardt H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Munich, Lindwurmstr. 4, D-80336 
Munich, Germany. joseph.rosenecker@kk-i.med.uni-muenchen.de

In this multicenter study, the impact of CF-related diabetes mellitus (CFRD) on 
pulmonary function and clinical outcome has been investigated. To better 
characterize the relationship between insulin deficiency and clinical outcome we 
prospectively followed a group of 56 CF patients, 28 with CFRD (group 1) and 28 
without diabetes (group 2) for 5 years. The clinical course of the patients was 
registered at each center. Data included were mortality, pulmonary function, 
body mass index, in-patient treatment, and CF-typical and diabetes typical 
complications. At the end of the study nearly twice the number of patients had 
died in group 1 as compared to group 2, however due to the low patient number 
this did not reach statistical significance. In patients with diabetes FEV1 and 
FVC declined significantly over the five year study period, whereas patients 
without diabetes did not show a significant decline during the study period. 
Retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy were only observed in diabetic 
patients. In conclusion, the data presented in this prospective, multicenter 
study give evidence that insulin deficiency leads to a direct decline in 
pulmonary function suggesting a cause and effect relationship between insulin 
deficiency and lung disease.

PMID: 11549516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 Sep;86(9):4078-88. doi:
10.1210/jcem.86.9.7821.

A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial of transdermal 
dihydrotestosterone gel on muscular strength, mobility, and quality of life in 
older men with partial androgen deficiency.

Ly LP(1), Jimenez M, Zhuang TN, Celermajer DS, Conway AJ, Handelsman DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Andrology, Concord Hospital, Concord, New South Wales 2139, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Aging Male. 2004 Dec;7(4):325-7.

The efficacy and safety of androgen supplementation in older men remains 
controversial. Despite biochemical evidence of partial androgen deficiency in 
older men, controlled studies using T demonstrate equivocal benefits. 
Furthermore, the importance of aromatization and 5alpha reduction in androgen 
actions among older men remains unclear. Dihydrotestosterone is the highest 
potency natural androgen with the additional features that it is neither 
aromatizable nor susceptible to potency amplification by 5alpha reduction. 
Therefore, the effects of dihydrotestosterone may differ from those of T in 
older men. This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 3 months treatment 
with transdermal dihydrotestosterone gel on muscle strength, mobility, and 
quality of life in ambulant, community-dwelling men aged 60 yr or older. 
Eligible men (plasma T < or =15 nmol/liter) were randomized to undergo daily 
dermal application of 70 mg dihydrotestosterone gel (n = 18) or vehicle (n = 19) 
and were studied before, monthly during, and 1 month after treatment. Among 33 
(17 dihydrotestosterone, 16 placebo) men completing the study with a high degree 
of compliance, dihydrotestosterone had significant effects on circulating 
hormones (increased dihydrotestosterone; decreased total and free testosterone, 
LH, and FSH; unchanged SHBG and estradiol), lipid profiles (decreased total and 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterols; unchanged high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol and triglycerides), hematopoiesis (increased hemoglobin, hematocrit, 
and red cell counts), and body composition (decreased skinfold thickness and fat 
mass; unchanged lean mass and waist to hip ratio). Muscle strength measured by 
isokinetic peak torque was increased in flexion of the dominant knee but not in 
knee extension or shoulder contraction, nor was there any significant change in 
gait, balance, or mobility tests, in cognitive function, or in quality of life 
scales. Dihydrotestosterone treatment had no adverse effects on prostate 
(unchanged prostate volumes and prostate-specific antigen) and cardiovascular 
(no adverse change in vascular reactivity or lipids) safety markers. We conclude 
that 3 months treatment with transdermal dihydrotestosterone gel demonstrates 
expected androgenic effects, short-term safety, and limited improvement in lower 
limb muscle strength but no change in physical functioning or cognitive 
function.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.86.9.7821
PMID: 11549629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 Sep;86(9):4223-32. doi:
10.1210/jcem.86.9.7813.

Biochemical and biophysical markers of endothelial dysfunction in adults with 
hypopituitarism and severe GH deficiency.

Elhadd TA(1), Abdu TA, Oxtoby J, Kennedy G, McLaren M, Neary R, Belch JJ, 
Clayton RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Postgraduate Medicine, Keele University, 
Staffordshire, United Kingdom.

Adult hypopituitarism is known to be associated with reduced life expectancy 
related to excess vascular events, and endothelial dysfunction is present in 
patients with this condition. We studied the relationship between biophysical 
and biochemical markers of endothelial dysfunction, including E-selectin, 
intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1, von Willebrand factor, and 
thrombomodulin in 52 adult patients with hypopituitarism and severe GH 
deficiency (<2 ng/ml on provocative testing) compared with 54 age-, sex-, and 
smoking-matched normal controls. We also examined endothelium-dependent 
dilatation of the brachial artery to postischemic occlusion and carotid artery 
morphology (intima-media thickness) by high-resolution ultrasonography. The 
patients were stable on conventional hormone replacement therapy but not on GH 
therapy, and none of the subjects had a known risk factor for vascular disease. 
Levels of E-selectin [57 +/- 3 vs. 49 +/- 2 ng/ml (mean +/- SEM)] (P < 0.043), 
intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (308 +/- 11 vs. 266 +/- 10 ng/ml) (P < 
0.001), thrombomodulin (49 +/- 3 vs. 35 +/- 2 ng/ml) (P < 0.001), and von 
Willebrand factor (132 +/- 7% vs. 105 +/- 5%) (P < 0.004) were significantly 
higher in patients than in controls. Brachial artery endothelium-dependent 
dilatation was significantly lower in patients than in controls [4.7% 
(0.00-9.77) vs. 10.5% (6.4-16.2) (median, interquartile range)] (P < 0.001). 
This difference in endothelium-dependent dilatation was more marked in female 
patients than in controls (P < 0.003), although it disappeared when 
estrogen-sufficient female patients were compared with controls (P = 0.31). 
However, the female patients who were not replaced with estrogen continued to 
show a striking difference compared with estrogen-deficient control females (P < 
0.004). There was no difference in carotid intima-media thickness between 
patients of either sex and controls. On univariate analysis, brachial artery 
endothelium-dependent dilatation correlated inversely with intercellular cell 
adhesion molecule-1 (r = -0.225, P < 0.033). Intercellular cell adhesion 
molecule-1 correlated positively with E-selectin (r = 0.466, P < 0.0001) and 
negatively with IGF-I (r = -0.238, P < 0.016). E-selectin correlated with 
thrombomodulin (r = 0.215, P < 0.034) and von Willebrand factor (r = 0.218, P < 
0.03) and negatively with IGF-I (r = -0.255, P < 009). Thrombomodulin correlated 
positively with von Willebrand factor (r = 0.422, P < 0.0001) and inversely with 
IGF-I (r = -0.266, P < 0.008). These correlations persisted after correction for 
age, sex, body mass index, and waist to hip ratio, with the exception of IGF-I, 
which now correlated with thrombomodulin only. These results confirm significant 
endothelial dysfunction in hypopituitarism and provide insight into the 
relationship of biochemical and biophysical markers of early atherosclerosis in 
hypopituitary GH-deficient adults. The negative correlation of IGF-I with some 
biochemical markers of endothelial dysfunction and the predictive nature of GH 
deficiency in stepwise regression analysis in this study supports the hypothesis 
that GH deficiency may play a role in these abnormalities. Future studies will 
determine whether GH treatment can reverse these abnormalities. Furthermore, the 
more significant endothelium-dependent dilatation abnormality in the female 
estrogen-deficient subjects compared with those who were estrogen replete 
suggests that estrogen replacement in these patients is a crucial element in 
protecting against vascular disease.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.86.9.7813
PMID: 11549653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Health Econ. 2001 Sep;10(6):487-97. doi: 10.1002/hec.604.

The relative sensitivity of willingness-to-pay and time-trade-off to changes in 
health status: an empirical investigation.

Smith RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
Richard.Smith@uea.ac.uk

This paper directly compares the relative sensitivity of time-trade-off (TTO) 
and willingness-to-pay (WTP) values obtained for various levels of change in 
health status. This was achieved by administering a TTO and WTP survey to a 
population of 50 subjects, assessing their valuation of various degrees of 
change in health status. It was found that, overall, WTP is more sensitive than 
TTO in distinguishing between different dimensions of health at the same nominal 
level of health status (only four WTP values not significantly different, 
compared with eight TTO values). In addition, WTP was also more sensitive to 
differences in quality of life between different levels of health within each 
dimension (all values significantly different from each other, with TTO yielding 
three insignificant relationships). These results tentatively suggest, 
therefore, that WTP seems to be a more sensitive measure of change in health 
status than TTO.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.604
PMID: 11550290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Health Econ. 2001 Sep;10(6):499-508. doi: 10.1002/hec.601.

Cost-effectiveness analysis with risk aversion.

Zivin JG(1).

Author information:
(1)International Center for Health Outcomes and Innovation Research and Joseph 
L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York 10032, USA.

This paper discusses why, in a medical context, the standard assumption of a 
risk-neutral social planner is inappropriate and develops a framework for 
conducting cost-effectiveness (CE) analysis when social planners are 
risk-averse. This framework demonstrates that if new medical interventions are 
variance increasing (decreasing), the risk-neutral approach will approve 
(reject) projects that should be rejected (accepted). This methodology is 
applied to two medical interventions that have been previously evaluated and 
considered cost-effective in the published literature. Since both conclusions 
assumed risk neutrality we determine the level of societal risk-aversion that 
would be necessary to reject these new interventions and compare these levels to 
previous estimates of risk-aversion in the economics literature. We find that 
for reasonable values of the risk-aversion parameter, only one of the two 
interventions should be approved. It is our recommendation that the cut-off risk 
aversion parameter (the level of risk-aversion above which a project would be 
rejected) should become a standard reported figure in future CE studies.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.601
PMID: 11550291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Neuro Oncol. 1999 Oct;1(4):261-7. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/1.4.261.

Immunohistochemical staining for ganglioside GD1b as a diagnostic and prognostic 
marker for primary human brain tumors.

Comas TC(1), Tai T, Kimmel D, Scheithauer BW, Burger PC, Pearl DK, Jewell SD, 
Yates AJ.

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

Immunohistochemical staining intensity for ganglioside GD1b was determined for 
108 human neuroectodermal tumors. Most of the tissue elements that immunostained 
were tumor cells; only a few axons and occasional neurons reacted in some 
specimens. All pilocytic astrocytomas stained very positively, whereas none of 
the ependymomas and only 11% of primitive neuroectodermal tumors, 20% of 
glioblastomas, and 28% of anaplastic astrocytomas showed more than faint 
staining. A similar association between grade and immunostaining was seen in 
tumors containing an oligodendrogliomatous component, but reactivity was not as 
strong as in astrocytic tumors or primitive neuroectodermal tumors. Results of 
Cox regression showed significant associations between immunostaining intensity 
and survival for all cases taken together (P = 0.007); for the group consisting 
of astrocytomas, oligoastrocytomas, and oligodendrogliomas (P = 0.002); and for 
astrocytomas alone (P = 0.04). Results were also significant using a 
proportional hazards model controlling for patient age (all cases P = 0.005; 
astrocytomas only P = 0.02), but not when controlling for tumor grade. Our 
results indicate that immunohistochemical staining for GD1b is correlated with 
tumor grade and that it may be of prognostic utility in some primary human brain 
tumors, especially astrocytomas.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/1.4.261
PMCID: PMC1920757
PMID: 11550317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2001 Mar 29;90(13):552-4.

[Atypical pulmonary embolism in a patient with renal cell carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schaer B(1), Allemann U, Ludwig C.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Abteilung, St. Claraspital Basel.

We present a rare case of pulmonary embolism in a patient with disseminated 
hypernephroma. Necropsy showed a large tumor thrombus in the right ventricle. 
Modern chemotherapy treatments, whilst improving patient's life expectancy to a 
certain degree don't hinder the spread of metastases which appear then in areas 
not previously known of. Providing there are no obvious signs of peripheral 
thrombi and to exclude intracardiac metastases, we recommend echocardiography 
for all cancer patients with pulmonary emboli.

PMID: 11550621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Consult Clin Psychol. 2001 Aug;69(4):587-96. doi:
10.1037//0022-006x.69.4.587.

Women's pursuit of personal goals in daily life with fibromyalgia: a 
value-expectancy analysis.

Affleck G(1), Tennen H, Zautra A, Urrows S, Abeles M, Karoly P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center, 
Farmington 06030, USA. affleck@exchange.uchc.edu

Eighty-nine women with fibromyalgia completed the Life Orientation Test, 
identified health and social goals, and answered questions from the Goal Systems 
Assessment Battery (P. Karoly & L. Ruehlman, 1995) about their valuation of, and 
self-efficiency in attaining, each goal. For 30 days, they responded to palm-top 
computer interviews about their pain and fatigue and rated their goal effort, 
goal progress, and pain- and fatigue-related goal barriers. Goal barriers 
increased and goal efforts and progress decreased on days with greater pain and 
fatigue; goals valued more highly were pursued more effortfully and 
successfully; more optimistic individuals were less likely to perceive goal 
barriers and, on days that were more fatiguing than usual, were less likely to 
reduce their effort and to retreat from progress in achieving their health goal; 
and more pessimistic individuals perceived greater goal barriers on days that 
were less painful than usual.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-006x.69.4.587
PMID: 11550725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Biometrics. 2001 Sep;57(3):861-7. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00861.x.

Testing equality of survival functions of quality-adjusted lifetime.

Zhao H(1), Tsiatis AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, 27695, 
USA. zhao@bst.rochester.edu

We present a method for comparing the survival functions of quality-adjusted 
lifetime from two treatments. This test statistic becomes the ordinary log-rank 
test when quality-adjusted lifetime is the same as the survival time. Simulation 
experiments are conducted to examine the behavior of our proposed test statistic 
under both null and alternative hypotheses. In addition, we apply our method to 
a breast cancer trial for comparing the distribution of quality-adjusted 
lifetime between two treatment regimes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00861.x
PMID: 11550938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Biometrics. 2001 Sep;57(3):868-74. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00868.x.

Quality-adjusted survival estimation with periodic observations.

Chen PL(1), Sen PK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Family Health International, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. pchen@fhi.org

Quality-adjusted survival is a measure that integrates both longevity and 
quality-of-life information. The analysis of quality-adjusted survival in a 
clinical study with data collected at periodic intervals encounters difficulties 
due to incomplete information. Based on observed time points, the time axis is 
partitioned into a set of disjoint time intervals, and under a Markovian 
assumption on patient's health status, the expected quality-adjusted survival is 
estimated as the summed product of the quality of life and its mean sojourn time 
of each health state within partitioned intervals. It is shown that the 
estimator is asymptotically normal with a simple variance calculation. A 
simulation study is conducted to investigate the behavior of the estimator, and 
a stroke study illustrates the use of the estimator.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.00868.x
PMID: 11550939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Surg Clin North Am. 2001 Aug;81(4):965-85. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70176-6.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in gynecologic oncology.

Sardi JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Buenos Aires University, Argentina. 
sardina@overnet.com.ar

The use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in conjunction with surgery in squamous 
carcinoma of the uterine cervix can reduce the surgical treatment extent (to be 
confirmed) in small-volume tumors (diameter < 4 cm) and increase overall 
survival and disease-free interval in localized median-volume tumors (< or = 8 
cm) and improve the quality of life of patients with large, locally advanced 
tumors, due to longer disease-free period. These issues have yet to be 
completely resolved (three randomized trials have confirmed these data), but in 
the meantime, neoadjuvant chemotherapy could be used as an alternative treatment 
in locally advanced tumors or large localized tumors. It is necessary to use 
high-dose chemotherapy to achieve a good tumor response and satisfactory 
"down-staging." Surgical treatment after neoadjuvant chemotherapy seems to be 
