the most appealing option, especially in patients with poor response to 
chemotherapy. The proper extension of surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy is 
an unexplored matter for the gynecologic oncologist, and no trial has been 
developed to address this issue, but it seemingly must be performed according to 
the initial size and extension of the tumor (prior to neoadjuvant chemotherapy) 
despite the tumor response to it.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70176-6
PMID: 11551136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Lung Cancer. 2001 Aug-Sep;33(2-3):143-54. doi:
10.1016/s0169-5002(01)00202-1.

Pronostic factors of synchronous brain metastases from lung cancer.

Penel N(1), Brichet A, Prevost B, Duhamel A, Assaker R, Dubois F, Lafitte JJ.

Author information:
(1)Oscar Lambret Cancer Center, 3, rue Frederic Combemale, B.P. 307, 59020 
Lille, France.

BACKGROUND: The prognosis of brain metastases (BM) from lung cancer is poor. The 
management of lung cancer with BM is not clear. This retrospective study 
attempts to determine their prognostic factors, and to better define the role of 
different treatments.
METHODS: We reviewed the clinical characteristics of 271 consecutive patients 
with synchronous brain metastases (SBM) from lung cancer (small-cell lung 
cancers and non-small-cell lung cancers), collected between January 1985 and May 
1993. Data were available for all patients as well as follow-up information on 
all patients through to death. Patients had all undergone heterogeneous 
treatments. Each physician had chosen the appropriate treatment after collegiate 
discussion. Survival curves were compared using the log-rank test in univariate 
analysis, and Cox's Regression model in multivariate analysis. Statistical 
significance was defined as P<0.05.
RESULTS: 249 patients were assessable. Treatments included: neurosurgical 
resection in 56 cases, brain irradiation in 87 cases, and chemotherapy in 126 
cases. Median overall survival time from the date of histological diagnosis of 
SBM was 103 days (range, 1-1699). In multivariate analysis, prognostic factors 
for longer overall survival times were: absence of adrenal metastases (P=0.007), 
neurosurgical resection (P=0.028), chemotherapy (P=0.032) and brain irradiation 
(P=0.008). Moreover, risk factors of intracranial hypertension as cause of death 
were number of SBM and absence of neurosurgical resection.
CONCLUSIONS: These results and others suggest that patients with SBM from lung 
cancer be considered for carcinologic treatment, and not only for best 
supportive care. However, further studies are necessary to evaluate quality of 
life with or without carcinologic treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(01)00202-1
PMID: 11551409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Duodecim. 1998;114(13):1295-6.

[Inequality in front of death is increasing].

[Article in Finnish]

Valkonen T.

PMID: 11552255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Radiologe. 2001 Aug;41(8):624-32. doi: 10.1007/s001170170111.

[Epidemiology of aortic disease: aneurysm, dissection, occlusion].

[Article in German]

Steckmeier B(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Gef채sschirurgie, Klinikum der Universit채t 
M체nchen-Innenstadt, Pettenkoferstrasse 8a, 80336 M체nchen.

The physiological infrarenal aortic diameter varies between 12.4 mm in women an 
27.6 mm in men. As defined, an aneurysmatic dilatation begins with 29 mm. 
According to that, 9% of all people above the age of 65 are affected by an 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Compared with the female sex, the male sex 
predominates at a rate of about 5:1. The disease is predominant in men of the 
white race. In black men, black and white women the incidence of AAA is 
identical. 38 to 50 percent of the AAA patients (patients) suffer from 
hypertension, 33 to 60% from coronary, 28% from cerebrovascular and 25% from 
peripheral occlusive disease. The AAA expansion rate varies between 0.2 and 0.8 
cm per year and is exponential from a diameter of 5 cm on. In autopsy studies, 
the rupture rates with AAA diameters of < 5 cm, between 5.1 and 6.9 cm, and of > 
7 cm were below 5%, 39% and 65%, respectively. 70% of the AAA patients do not 
die of a rupture, but of a cardiac disease. Serum markers, such as 
metalloproteinases and procollagen peptides are significantly increased in AAA 
patients. Thoraco-abdominal aneurysms (TAA) make up only 2 to 5% of all 
degenerative aneurysms. 20 to 30% of the TAA patients are also affected by an 
AAA. 80% of the TAA are degenerative, 15 to 20% are a consequence of the chronic 
dissection--including 5% of Marfan patients--, 2% occur in case of infections 
and 1 to 2% in case of aortitis. The TAA incidence in 100,000 person-years is 
5.9% during a monitoring period of 30 years. In case of TAA, an operation is 
indicated with a maximum diameter of 5.5 to 6 cm and more and, in case of a 
Marfan's syndrome (incidence of 1:10,000), with a maximum diameter of 5.5 cm and 
more. With regard to aorto-iliac occlusive diseases, there are defined 3 types 
of distribution. Type I refers to the region of the bifurcation itself. Type II 
defines the diffuse aorto-iliac spread of the disease. Type III designates 
multiple-level occlusions also beyond the inguinal ligament. Type I patients in 
most cases are female and more frequently suffer from hyperlipidaemia, while 
Type II patients are affected by hypertension and diabetes. Compared to Type II 
patients, Type I patients have a life expectancy that is 10 years higher. Type I 
and Type II patients often suffer from a pelvic claudication and, unlike Type 
III patients, are more frequently affected by arterio-arterial embolisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s001170170111
PMID: 11552376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2001;(8):10-3.

[The population's health in the Russian Federation and its prediction until the 
year 2005].

[Article in Russian]

Shchepin OP.

PMID: 11552616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2001;(8):24-30.

[Main results of progress of the first stage of the Concept of Development of 
Public Health Service and Medical Science in the Russian Federation: goals for 
2001-2005 and the period till 2010].

[Article in Russian]

Shevchenko IuL.

PMID: 11552620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Endourol. 2001 Aug;15(6):611-4. doi: 10.1089/089277901750426391.

Percutaneous implantation of subcutaneous prosthetic ureters: long-term outcome.

Jabbour ME(1), Desgrandchamps F, Angelescu E, Teillac P, Le Duc A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Saint Louis Hospital, Paris, France. 
michelj@cyberia.net.lb

PURPOSE: We have used an extra-anatomic subcutaneous alloplastic ureteral 
replacement initially to bypass ureteral obstruction secondary to advanced 
pelvic malignancies in patients with a short life expectancy. Following the 
encouraging preliminary results, our list of indications has broadened to 
include complex benign ureteral strictures. We herein report the long-term 
outcome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A series of 35 subcutaneous prosthetic ureters were 
implanted percutaneously in 27 patients (19 unilateral and 8 bilateral) to 
bypass extrinsic ureteral obstructions. The nature of obstruction was neoplastic 
in 22 patients and benign in 5. A composite prosthesis, consisting of two 
coaxial tubes--internal pure smooth silicone covered by coiled e-PTFE--has been 
designed to serve as the ureteral replacement. This tube is inserted 
percutaneously into the renal pelvis, tunnelled subcutaneously, and introduced 
through a small suprapubic incision in the bladder. All patients were followed 
to date or until death from tumor. The mean follow-up was 6.3 months for the 
deceased patients and 47 months for the surviving ones, the longest follow-up 
being 84 months.
RESULTS: No operative or immediate postoperative deaths were observed. Initial 
difficulty in placing the prosthesis was encountered in 5 of the 27 patients 
(19%). Secondary parietal complications occurred in 8.5% of cases (3/35). The 
prosthetic ureter had to be removed in one patient because of skin erosion. 
Return to a standard percutaneous nephrostomy was needed in two patients because 
of local tumor progression with bladder fistulae. Five patients are alive with 
the prosthesis in place and a follow-up as long as 84 months without 
encrustation, infection, obstruction, or skin problems and with normally 
functioning kidneys.
CONCLUSION: The subcutaneous urinary diversion using a silicone-PTFE prosthesis 
is an efficient and minimally invasive way to bypass malignant or complex benign 
obstructions of the ureters that otherwise would necessitate permanent 
nephrostomy drainage.

DOI: 10.1089/089277901750426391
PMID: 11552786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2001 Oct;55(10):748-54. doi: 
10.1136/jech.55.10.748.

The national financial adjustment policy and the equalisation of health levels 
among prefectures.

Takano T(1), Nakamura K.

Author information:
(1)Health Promotion/ International Health, Division of Public Health, Graduate 
School of Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Japan. takano.hlth@tmd.ac.jp

STUDY OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to examine (1) trends 
concerning financial assistance from the national government to local 
governments, (2) trends regarding death rates and life expectancies among 
prefectures, and (3) the effect of the national financial adjustment policy in 
equalising both the revenues of local governments and variations in the health 
levels among prefectures in terms of death rates and life expectancies.
DESIGN: The study analysed prefectural income, the amount of national taxes 
collected, financial assistance from the national government to local 
governments, and age adjusted death rates and life expectancies of all of the 
prefectures in Japan during the period from 1965 through 1995.
MAIN RESULTS: (1) Under the financial adjustment policy, financial assistance 
from the national government to the local governments, which consists of the sum 
of the local allocation tax and treasury disbursements, increased from 1831 
billion yen in 1965 to 31 116 billion yen in 1995. (2) During the same period, 
the age adjusted death rate per 100 000 people decreased from 1168.9 (1965) to 
545.3 (1995). The range of variation in the age adjusted death rate among 
prefectures diminished as the coefficient of variation of the death rate 
declined from 0.060 in 1965 to 0.043 in 1995. (3) There was a significant 
statistical correlation between higher prefectural incomes and lower mortality 
rates during from 1965 until 1975 (p < 0.05), whereas this correlation was 
indistinct in the 1980s and has not been observed since 1990. (4) The relative 
health level of Tokyo has declined in terms of its ranking among all the 
prefectures with regard to life expectancy, from being the best in 1965 to below 
average in 1995.
CONCLUSIONS: The national financial adjustment policy to balance the revenues of 
local governments has increased the health levels of rural prefectures. It is 
probable that the policy reduced the disparity in death rates and life 
expectancies among prefectures throughout the country. However, the policy has 
precluded the nation's capital city from applying its economic resources as 
local government expenditures to deal with the megacity issues affecting health.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.55.10.748
PMCID: PMC1731786
PMID: 11553660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Versicherungsmedizin. 2001 Sep 1;53(3):107-8.

[Increased life expectancy--a risk?].

[Article in German]

Sieger C.

Comment in
    Versicherungsmedizin. 2002 Mar 1;54(1):38; author reply 38-9.

PMID: 11554100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2001 Aug;49(8):1105-9. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49217.x.

Telomeres and telomerase: basic science implications for aging.

Ahmed A(1), Tollefsbol T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

Life expectancy in the United States and other developed nations has increased 
remarkably over the past century, and continues to increase. However, lifespan 
has remained relatively unchanged over this period. As life expectancy 
approaches maximum human lifespan, further increase in life expectancy would 
only be possible if lifespan could also be increased. Although little is known 
about the aging process, increasing lifespan and delaying aging are the research 
challenges of the new century, and have caused intense debate and research 
activities among biogerontologists. Many theories have been proposed to explain 
the aging process. However, damage to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the 
centerpiece of most of these. Recently telomere shortening has been described to 
be associated with DNA damage. Located at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes and 
synthesized by telomerase, telomeres maintain the length of chromosomes. The 
loss of telomeres can lead to DNA damage. The association between cellular 
senescence and telomere shortening in vitro is well established. In the 
laboratory, telomerase-negative differentiated somatic cells maintain a youthful 
state, instead of aging, when transfected with vectors encoding telomerase. Many 
human cancer cells demonstrate high telomerase activity. Evidence is also 
accumulating that telomere shortening is associated with cellular senescence in 
vivo. What causes changes in expression of telomerase in different cell types 
and premature aging syndromes? Does the key to "youthfulness" lie in our ability 
to control the expression of telomerase? We have reviewed the contemporary 
literature to find answers to these questions and explore the association 
between aging, telomeres, and telomerase.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49217.x
PMID: 11555075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Trop Med Int Health. 2001 Sep;6(9):677-87. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.2001.00769.x.

Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of environmental management for malaria control.

Utzinger J(1), Tozan Y, Singer BH.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Princeton 08544, USA. 
utzinger@princeton.edu

Roll back malaria (RBM) aims at halving the current burden of the disease by the 
year 2010. The focus is on sub-Saharan Africa, and it is proposed to implement 
efficacious and cost-effective control strategies. But the evidence base of such 
information is scarce, and a notable missing element is the discussion of the 
potential of environmental management. We reviewed the literature and identified 
multiple malaria control programmes that incorporated environmental management 
as the central feature. Prominent among them are programmes launched in 1929 and 
implemented for two decades at copper mining communities in Zambia. The full 
package of control measures consisted of vegetation clearance, modification of 
river boundaries, draining swamps, oil application to open water bodies and 
house screening. Part of the population also was given quinine and was sleeping 
under mosquito nets. Monthly malaria incidence rates and vector densities were 
used for surveillance and adaptive tuning of the environmental management 
strategies to achieve a high level of performance. Within 3-5 years, 
malaria-related mortality, morbidity and incidence rates were reduced by 70-95%. 
Over the entire 20 years of implementation, the programme had averted an 
estimated 4173 deaths and 161,205 malaria attacks. The estimated costs per death 
and malaria attack averted were US$ 858 and US$ 22.20, respectively. Over the 
initial 3-5 years start-up period, analogous to the short-duration of 
cost-effectiveness analyses of current studies, we estimated that the costs per 
disability adjusted life year (DALY) averted were US$ 524-591. However, the 
strategy has a track record of becoming cost-effective in the longer term, as 
maintenance costs were much lower: US$ 22-92 per DALY averted. In view of fewer 
adverse ecological effects, increased sustainability and better uses of local 
resources and knowledge, environmental management--integrated with 
pharmacological, insecticidal and bednet interventions--could substantially 
increase the chances of rolling back malaria.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.2001.00769.x
PMID: 11555434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Curr Opin Oncol. 2001 Sep;13(5):399-402. doi:
10.1097/00001622-200109000-00015.

Ovarian cancer screening: are we making any progress?

Paley PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195-6460, 
USA. paley@u.washington.edu

Given the burden of suffering associated with the development of ovarian cancer 
and the clear survival gradient related to the stage of disease at diagnosis, 
there is much enthusiasm for the development of effective screening strategies 
aimed at early detection. To date, no evidence exists to justify mass population 
screening; however, emphasis on subpopulation screening, identification of novel 
serologic markers, and multimodality screening designs have provided hope that 
these refinements may eventually translate into a reduction in ovarian cancer 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-200109000-00015
PMID: 11555720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nuklearmedizin. 2001 Aug;40(4):122-8.

[Cost-effectiveness of PET in the management algorithms of lung tumors: 
comparison of health economic data].

[Article in German]

Dietlein M(1), Moka D, Weber K, Theissen P, Schicha H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik f체r Nuklearmedizin der Universit채t zu K철ln, 
Deutschland. nuklearmedizin@medizin.uni-koeln.de

Modelling is an accepted, valid and often necessary method for assessing 
economic effectiveness in terms of cost per life year gained. Comparing an 
alternative strategy (a) with a baseline strategy (bl), the incremental cost 
(COSTa-COSTbl) divided by the incremental life expectancy (LEa-LEbl) defines the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Taking watchful waiting as the 
low-cost baseline strategy for the management of solitary pulmonary nodules, the 
ICER of positron emission tomography (PET) [3218 euros (EUR) per life year saved 
(LYS)] was more favourable than that of exploratory surgery (4210 EUR/LYS) or 
that of transthoracic needle biopsy (6120 EUR/LYS). Changing the baseline 
strategy to exploratory surgery, the use of PET led to cost savings and 
additional life expectancy in case of an intermediate pretest probability of 
malignancy. For management of potentially operable non-small cell lung cancer 
the use of PET in patients with normalisized mediastinal lymph nodes on CT was 
most cost-effective (143 EUR/LYS), and the costs of PET were almost balanced by 
a better selection of patients for beneficial cancer resection. Using PET in 
patients with enlarged lymph nodes on CT, the ICER raised to 36,667 EUR/LYS. 
When PET or CT were positive for mediastinal lymph nodes, the exclusion from 
biopsy confirmation led to cost savings that did not justify the expected 
reduction in life expectancy. Economic data from the USA and Japan also 
demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of PET-based algorithms for the management 
of lung tumours.

PMID: 11556202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Nov;53(9):1163-74. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00416-0.

Gendered embodiment and survival for young people with cystic fibrosis.

Willis E(1), Miller R, Wyn J.

Author information:
(1)School of Sociology, Politics and Anthropology, La Trobe University, 
Melbourne, Vic, Australia. e.willis@latrobe.edu.au

In the context of improvements in both longevity and the quality of life for 
people with chronic disease, this paper takes as its sense of problem the 
differential life expectancy for young men as against young women suffering from 
cystic fibrosis. From a qualitative study of the transition to adulthood for 
young people with the disease, a theory of gendered embodiment is proposed to 
explain this differential. The social construction of masculinity and femininity 
as social practices resulted in the former being more conducive to survival than 
the latter in this case. There were marked differences between the young women 
and young men in attitudes to: the meaning of life, death, career and body 
image; all of which affected adherence to medical regimen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00416-0
PMID: 11556607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2001 Sep;127(9):1089-92. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.127.9.1089.

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in elderly patients: a long-term 
retrospective review of 273 cases.

Sarini J(1), Fournier C, Lefebvre JL, Bonafos G, Van JT, Coche-Dequ챕ant B.

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Department, Centre Oscar Lambret, Northern France Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Lille, 3, rue Combemale, 59000 Lille, France.

BACKGROUND: The prolongation of life expectancy results in an increasing number 
of malignant neoplasms occurring in the elderly population. For a long time 
these patients were not considered good candidates to receive aggressive therapy 
and probably were inadequately treated in many instances.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the outcome of patients older than 74 years who had had 
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In our database of 4610 consecutive patients with head 
and neck squamous cell carcinomas who were evaluated and treated at the Centre 
Oscar Lambret, Northern France Comprehensive Cancer Center, Lille, over a 
10-year period (1974-1983), we identified 273 patients who were 75 years or 
older. The outcome was updated for all patients included in the database.
RESULTS: A significantly higher proportion of females were noted in the older 
patient group (43/273, 15.8%) than in younger patient group (192/4337, 4.4%, 
P<.001). There were no differences for primary site except for hypopharyngeal 
squamous cell carcinoma that occurred less frequently in the elderly patients 
(8.8% vs 14.5%, borderline significance P =.02). There were no differences for 
TNM stage grouping, histological classification, incidences of previous cancer, 
and comorbidities. Surgery was performed in a smaller proportion of older 
patients (13.9% vs 27.4%, P<.001, for the primary site and 15.4% vs 35.6%, 
P<.001, for those occurring in the neck) as well as chemotherapy that was 
delivered in 5.5% vs 17.7% (P<.001). On the contrary, there was no difference in 
radiotherapeutic treatments. Tolerance to treatment was similar and there was 
the same proportion of persistent diseases 2 months after completion of the 
overall treatment (27.8% vs 25.4%, P =.94). Pooling local, regional, and distant 
failures and metachronous cancers, there was a borderline lower incidence in 
older patients (57.1% vs 64.2%, P =.02), which is explained by an obvious 
shorter life expectancy. If survival is not meaningful in such a comparison 
(5-year survival 23.8% vs 36.4%), then the causes of deaths may be compared. 
Among the 4067 patients who were dead at the last update, index tumor 
evolution-related deaths numbered 130 (48.1% of dead patients in this cohort) in 
older patients compared with 2045 (53.9% of dead patients in this cohort), which 
was not significantly different. There was no difference in treatment-related 
deaths (11.1% vs 9.3%). Fewer intercurrent disease-related deaths occurred in 
the older patients (19.7% vs 11.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in elderly patients did not 
seem to have a significantly different outcome when compared with head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma occurring in younger patients. When properly monitored, 
conventional therapies seem feasible in older patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.127.9.1089
PMID: 11556858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 2001 Oct;34(5):941-70, vii. doi: 
10.1016/s0030-6665(05)70356-x.

Glomus tympanicum and glomus jugulare tumors.

Jackson CG(1).

Author information:
(1)The Otology Group, Nashville, Tennessee 37203-2138, USA. ozcycle2@aol.com

The ideal management of most paragangliomas is complete surgical excision. 
Because of technical advances, issues of resectability have given way to issues 
of functional outcome and postsurgical quality of life. This article reviews the 
surgical strategy for craniocervical paragangliomas. Intracranial extension, 
defect reconstruction, and cranial nerve rehabilitation are addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0030-6665(05)70356-x
PMID: 11557448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Lancet. 2001 Feb 24;357(9256):576. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04077-0.

Where will it all end?

Kirkwood TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, Institute for 
the Health of the Elderly, Newcastle General Hospital, UK. 
Tom.Kirkwood@ncl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)04077-0
PMID: 11558481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Health Econ. 2001 Sep;20(5):823-34. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00095-9.

Equity in health: the importance of different health streams.

Dolan PA(1), Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Sheffield, UK. p.dolan@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper develops a conceptual framework in which preferences about the 
distribution of future health gains depend on differences in four 'health 
streams'. These are as follows: (1) the amount of health to be gained; (2) the 
no-treatment profiles; (3) the amount of health experienced thus far: and (4) 
the amount of health gained previously as a result of public health 
interventions. This classification puts the well-established concerns for 
severity (stream 2) and age weights (stream 3) into a more complete analytical 
framework. Stream 4 has not been discussed to date and the paper suggests some 
moral arguments about the distributive relevance of this stream of health.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00095-9
PMID: 11558650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Drugs. 2001;61(10):1379-85. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200161100-00001.

New and emerging therapies for pulmonary complications of cystic fibrosis.

Tonelli MR(1), Aitken ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, USA. 
tonelli@u.washington.edu

In the decade since the gene for cystic fibrosis (CF) was discovered, research 
into potential therapeutic interventions has progressed on a number of different 
fronts. The vast majority of morbidity and mortality in CF results from 
inflammation and infection of the airways. Direct delivery of antibacterials to 
the airway secretions via a nebuliser is an attractive therapeutic option, and a 
novel formulation of tobramycin designed for such a purpose has been 
demonstrated to improve spirometry and decrease the need for intravenous 
antibacterials. In addition, early clinical trials are studying the effects of 
small peptides with antibiotic properties (defensins) delivered directly to the 
airways. Inflammation, whether secondary to infection or an independent feature 
of CF, leads to progressive bronchiectasis. Anti-inflammatories such as 
prednisone and possibly ibuprofen have been shown to decrease the rate of 
respiratory decline in patients with CF but have tolerability profiles that 
limit clinical usefulness. Macrolides also have anti-inflammatory properties and 
clinical trials are now ongoing to assess the efficacy of these agents in CF. 
Multiple agents, including uridine triphosphate (UTP), genistein, phenylbutyrate 
and CPX (cyclopentyl dipropylxanthine), have been demonstrated in cell culture 
to at least partially correct the primary defect of ion transport related to 
mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). No 
agent of this class has yet demonstrated clinical effectiveness, but several are 
in preclinical and early clinical trials. Finally, gene therapy that allows for 
the incorporation and expression of wild-type CFTR in respiratory epithelial 
cells would be definitive therapy for CF. However, multiple barriers to delivery 
and expression need to be overcome. With research proceeding on these multiple 
fronts, new therapies for pulmonary complications promise to continue to 
increase the life expectancy of individuals with CF.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200161100-00001
PMID: 11558827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Sep 15;19(18):3884-94. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.18.3884.

Quality of life in palliative cancer care: results from a cluster randomized 
trial.

Jordh첩y MS(1), Fayers P, Loge JH, Ahlner-Elmqvist M, Kaasa S.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Medicine Unit, Department of Oncology and Radiotherapy, University 
Hospital of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway. mjordhoy@online.no

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2002 Mar 15;20(6):1704-5.

PURPOSE: To assess the impact of comprehensive palliative care on patients' 
quality of life. The intervention was based on cooperation between a palliative 
medicine unit and the community service and was compared with conventional care.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cluster randomized trial was carried out, with community 
health care districts defined as the clusters. Patients from these districts who 
had malignant disease and survival expectancy between 2 to 9 months were entered 
onto the trial. The main quality-of-life end points were physical and emotional 
functioning, pain, and psychologic distress assessed monthly by using the 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life 
Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) questionnaire and Impact of Event scale (IES). 
In total, 235 intervention patients and 199 controls were included.
RESULTS: During the initial 4 months of follow-up, the compliance was good (72%) 
and comparable among treatment groups. No significant differences on any of the 
quality-of-life scores were found. At later assessments and for scores that were 
made within 3 months before death, there was also no consistent tendency in 
favor of any treatment group on the main outcomes or other EORTC QLQ-C30 
scales/items.
CONCLUSION: A general program of palliative care may be important to ensure 
flexibility and to meet the needs of terminally ill patients. However, to 
achieve improvements on a group level of the various dimensions of quality of 
life, specific interventions directed toward specific symptoms or problems may 
have to be defined, evaluated, and included in the program.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.18.3884
PMID: 11559726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Sep 18;135(6):473-6. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-135-6-200109180-00023.

Prognostic models abound, but how useful are they?

Reynolds T.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-135-6-200109180-00023
PMID: 11560467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. JAMA. 2001 Sep 19;286(11):1325-30. doi: 10.1001/jama.286.11.1325.

Cost-effectiveness of practice-initiated quality improvement for depression: 
results of a randomized controlled trial.

Schoenbaum M(1), Un체tzer J, Sherbourne C, Duan N, Rubenstein LV, Miranda J, 
Meredith LS, Carney MF, Wells K.

Author information:
(1)RAND, 1200 S Hayes St, Arlington, VA 22202, USA. mikels@rand.org

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2002 May-Jun;136(3):116.

CONTEXT: Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide, but treatment 
rates in primary care are low.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness from a societal perspective of 2 
quality improvement (QI) interventions to improve treatment of depression in 
primary care and their effects on patient employment.
DESIGN: Group-level randomized controlled trial conducted June 1996 to July 
1999.
SETTING: Forty-six primary care clinics in 6 community-based managed care 
organizations.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred eighty-one primary care clinicians and 1356 patients 
with positive screening results for current depression.
INTERVENTIONS: Matched practices were randomly assigned to provide usual care (n 
= 443 patients) or to 1 of 2 QI interventions offering training to practice 
leaders and nurses, enhanced educational and assessment resources, and either 
nurses for medication follow-up (QI-meds; n = 424 patients) or trained local 
psychotherapists (QI-therapy; n = 489). Practices could flexibly implement the 
interventions, which did not assign type of treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total health care costs, costs per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY), days with depression burden, and employment over 24 months, 
compared between usual care and the 2 interventions.
RESULTS: Relative to usual care, average health care costs increased $419 (11%) 
in QI-meds (P =.35) and $485 (13%) in QI-therapy (P =.28); estimated costs per 
QALY gained were between $15 331 and $36 467 for QI-meds and $9478 and $21 478 
for QI-therapy; and patients had 25 (P =.19) and 47 (P =.01) fewer days with 
depression burden and were employed 17.9 (P =.07) and 20.9 (P =.03) more days 
during the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: Societal cost-effectiveness of practice-initiated QI efforts for 
depression is comparable with that of accepted medical interventions. The 
intervention effects on employment may be of particular interest to employers 
and other stakeholders.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.286.11.1325
PMID: 11560537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Health Soc Care Community. 1998 Sep;6(5):301-307. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2524.1998.00141.x.

A cohort study on the active life expectancy of stroke patients using a 
community-based stroke registry in a Japanese rural district.

Matsubara I(1), Sokejima S, Kagamimori S, Yamagami T, Naruse Y, Nakatani Y, 
Sekine M, Tabata M, Nakagawa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical 
University, Toyama, Japan; Department of Public Health, Kanazawa Medical 
University, Ishikawa, Japan.

In order to support patients with a history of stroke, public health nurses, 
hospitals and ambulance stations in and around the Oyabe Health District (49 000 
population, rural area) provided initial information for a community-based 
stroke registry starting from 1966. This stroke registry was established by the 
present authors to record the patients' status and provide social services at 
home. The information from 1032 stroke patients was compiled into a register 
during the period 1966-79. Of 494 patients identified as living at home in 1980, 
we were able to maintain contact with 452 patients (91.5%) and these 452 stroke 
patients were defined as the study cohort. They were asked several questions on 
physical status, mobility status, central nervous function, emotional problems 
and living conditions. These data were used to construct the baseline of this 
study cohort and we gathered information on mobility status every year until 
1993. The risk factors reducing their active life expectancy were investigated 
using Kaplan-Meier's method, log-rank test and Cox's proportional hazard model. 
For active life expectancy, the end point was defined as commencement of 
immobile status or death. Emotional problems (P < 0.01), difficulty in bathing 
(P < 0.05) and disorder of memory function (P < 0.05) were shown to contribute 
to a reduction in their active life expectancy after adjustment for age, sex, 
years after stroke, types of stroke, mobility status and living with spouse.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2524.1998.00141.x
PMID: 11560601


595. Health Soc Care Community. 2000 Nov;8(6):390-397. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2524.2000.00264.x.

Welfare benefits' screening and referral: a new direction for community nurses?

Hoskins R(1), Carter DE.

Author information:
(1)Nursing & Midwifery School, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

The White Paper, Towards a Healthier Scotland considerably widens the community 
nursing scope for health promotion, as it recognises that disadvantaged life 
circumstances as well as unhealthy lifestyles contribute to poor health. It has 
been shown that income and health are interrelated. This evidence has 
demonstrated that it is not how rich a nation is that determines the overall 
health of its inhabitants; it is how equitably its wealth is distributed that 
counts: countries that have narrow income differentials tend to have better 
health. Both the income and health divide in Britain widened considerably 
between 1980 and 1992. It is argued that increasing income inequality leads to 
social isolation and chronic stress, which can impact on psycho-social pathways 
and damages life expectancy. This paper suggests that community nurses can 
address adverse life circumstances by finding ways of improving the economic 
status of their most vulnerable clients, and that one way of doing this would be 
to ensure that clients claim their full quota of welfare entitlement, given that 
there is several billion pounds of social security benefits that remain 
unclaimed in Britain every year.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2524.2000.00264.x
PMID: 11560709


596. Asian J Androl. 2001 Sep;3(3):161-8.

Aging men--challenges ahead.

Lunenfeld B(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, Israel. blunenf@attglobal.net

The prolongation of life expectancy and the drastic reduction of fertility rate 
are the primary cause of an aging world. It is projected that the elderly (above 
65) will increase within the next 25 years by 82%, whereas the new born only by 
3%. Despite the enormous medical progress during the past few decades, the last 
years of life are still accompanied by increasing ill health and disability. The 
ability to maintain active and independent living for as long as possible is a 
crucial factor for aging in health and dignity. Therefore, the promotion of 
healthy aging and the prevention of disability in men, must assume a central 
role in medical research and medical practice as well as in the formulation of 
national health and social policies. Effective programs promoting health and 
aging will ensure a more efficient use of health and social services and improve 
the quality of life in older persons by enabling them to remain independent and 
productive. The most important and drastic gender differences in aging are 
related to organs and or systems dependant or influenced by reproductive 
hormones. In distinction to the course of reproductive aging in women, with the 
rapid decline in sex hormones and expressed by the cessation of menses, aging 
men experience a slow and continuous decline of hormones. This decline in 
endocrine function involves: A decrease of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEAQ), oestrogens, thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), growth hormone (GH), 
insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and melatonin. This decrease is 
concomitant with an increase of LH and FSH. In addition sex hormone binding 
globulin's (SHBG) increase with age resulting in further lowering the 
concentrations of free biologically active androgens. Interventions such as 
hormone replacement therapy may prevent, delay or alleviate the debilitating 
conditions which may result from secondary partial endocrine deficiency. Primary 
and secondary preventive strategies such as the promotion of a safe environment, 
healthy lifestyle including proper nutrition, appropriate exercise, avoidance of 
smoking, avoidance of drug and alcohol abuses, if done effectively, should 
result in a significant reduction of the health and social costs, reduce pain 
and suffering, increase the quality of life of the elderly and enable them to 
remain productive and contribute to the well-being of society. In light of this, 
public awareness of medical knowledge needs to be increased and basic, clinical, 
socio-economic and epidemiological research intensified.

PMID: 11561184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Semin Vasc Surg. 2001 Sep;14(3):193-9. doi: 10.1053/svas.2001.25491.

Screening and surveillance for abdominal aortic aneurysms: who needs it and 
when.

Ebaugh JL(1), Garcia ND, Matsumura JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA.

Early detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms potentially can save many lives by 
preventing aneurysm rupture. Screening programs, however, have yet to be proven 
as an efficient means of accomplishing this goal and improving overall life 
expectancy. Until more information is available, selective high-risk screening 
may be the only viable option. Recently, 2 large prospective studies have better 
defined the utility of screening programs and have provided guidelines for the 
safe nonoperative management of small aneurysms. Using ultrasound surveillance, 
these can be followed up at 3- to 12-month intervals, depending on their size, 
with operative intervention reserved for aneurysms that enlarge rapidly, become 
symptomatic, or reach 5.5 cm in diameter.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/svas.2001.25491
PMID: 11561280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Pest Manag Sci. 2001 Sep;57(9):822-6. doi: 10.1002/ps.367.

Sex-related response to organophosphorus and carbamate insecticides in adult 
Oriental fruit moth, Grapholita molesta.

Shearer PW(1), Usmani KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Rutgers, State University of New Jersey, Rutgers 
Agricultural Research & Extension Center, Bridgeton, NJ 08302-5919, USA. 
shearer@aesop.rutgers.edu

During the development of a resistance-monitoring bioassay that uses males as 
the life-stage tested, the relationship of adult female and male susceptibility 
of Grapholita molesta to different classes of insecticides was investigated. 
Preliminary results indicated that more males survived diagnostic doses of 
azinphos-methyl than females. Additional research revealed that, although the 
body mass of adult male G molesta was only 69% of that of female moths (5.67 and 
8.20 mg, respectively), their LC50 values were 2.6, 4.1 and 10.3 times higher 
than those of females for azinphosmethyl, malathion and parathion-methyl, 
respectively. However, female G molesta moths were more tolerant to methomyl 
than were male moths. There was no indication that this sex-related response 
occurred in G molesta larvae. The results presented here raise concerns 
regarding the use of pheromone traps for determining whether insecticide 
treatments are required and as part of resistance monitoring programs.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.367
PMID: 11561408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Sep 1;145(35):1681-5.

[Disease burden of diabetes mellitus type II in the Netherlands: incidence, 
prevalence and mortality ].

[Article in Dutch]

Baan CA(1), Feskens EJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Rotterdam. 
caroline.baan@rivm.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Sep 1;145(35):1677-80.

A consistent estimate of the prevalence, mortality and incidence of diabetes 
mellitus type II in the Netherlands was obtained by combining data from several 
sources using statistical and modelling techniques. In the Netherlands, the 
prevalence of diabetes in the age-group 30-74 years is 2.7-3.2%. The prevalence 
increases with age: for men by 7% per year of age and for women by almost 8% per 
year of age. This age-related increase will give rise to a 36% increase in the 
prevalence of diabetes in the period 1993-2010. Diabetic patients account for 
12% of the total mortality in men and 18% in women; in 2.5% and 5% of the cases 
respectively, diabetes is the cause of mortality. If this excess mortality could 
be eliminated then the life expectancy for men with diabetes would increase by 
4.7 years at the age of 45 and for women the corresponding increase would be 6.3 
years. The estimated incidence per year increases from 8 per 10,000 men (7 for 
women) in the age group 40-44 years to 80 per 10,000 men (86 for women) in the 
age group 75-79 years.

PMID: 11561484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Invest New Drugs. 2001;19(4):317-20. doi: 10.1023/a:1010609810517.

Phase II trial of irofulven (6-hydroxymethylacylfulvene) for patients with 
advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Berg WJ(1), Schwartz L, Yu R, Mazumdar M, Motzer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA.

The aim of this study was to determine the antitumor activity of irofulven 
(6-hydroxymethylacylfulvene) in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma 
(RCC). Eligible patients had advanced renal cell carcinoma with bidimensionally 
measurable disease, a Karnofsky performance status of at least 70, life 
expectancy of greater than three months, no prior treatment with chemotherapy, 
and no evidence of brain metastases. Irofulven was administered at a dose of 11 
mg/m2 by 5-min intravenous infusion, on 5 consecutive days. Cycles were repeated 
every 28 days. Thirteen patients were enrolled in this study and 12 were 
evaluable for response. Of the twelve evaluable patients, no major responses 
were achieved. Eight patients had stable disease as best response. Toxicity 
included myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects. At the dose and 
schedule used in this trial, irofulven did not produce clinical response in RCC.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010609810517
PMID: 11561691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Econ Entomol. 2001 Aug;94(4):785-92. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.4.785.

Demographic analysis of delayed mating in mating disruption: a case study with 
Cryptophelbia illepida (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae).

Jones VP(1), Aihara-Sasaki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Environmental Protection Sciences, University of 
Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu 96822, USA.

Laboratory-derived life tables were used to determine the effect of delaying 
mating of adult female koa seedworm, Cryptophlebia illepida (Butler) 
(Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), 4 and 6 d on population growth rates. Leslie 
matrices were developed from the life tables and used to project the effects for 
approximately four generations. Delay of mating caused a decrease in population 
growth rate and also resulted in asynchronous population cycling between control 
(1-d delay) and the delayed treatments. By the fourth generation, the control 
population began to increase 10 and 14 d before the 4- and 6-d delay treatments, 
respectively. Increasing the mortality of females during the first 7 d of adult 
life resulted in a greater reduction of the populations where mating was delayed 
than in the control populations. This result suggests that even at relatively 
low levels of natural enemy mortality, there is a synergistic effect when mating 
is delayed. The implications of these effects on mating disruption management 
programs are discussed.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.4.785
PMID: 11561834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Int Dent J. 2001 Jun;51(3 Suppl):219-27.

Geriatric oral health issues in Africa: Tanzanian perspective.

Luhanga C(1), Ntabaye M.

Author information:
(1)luhanga@info.bw

A review of oral health issues for the elderly in Tanzania is presented and 
conclusions drawn from the analysis are applied to the broader African 
situation. It must be remembered that life expectancy (at birth) in Tanzania has 
been below or equal to 50 years, which places adults aged 35+ years in the 
elderly group of citizens. Access to professional care is limited, especially in 
rural areas, resulting in most people seeking care only when in severe pain and 
often leading to extraction. People aged 40+ years, who live in rural areas, are 
at higher risk of destructive periodontal disease and it is recommended that 
oral health education, focusing on behaviour change should be initiated from 
childhood. Innovative training programmes for primary health workers already 
working in rural areas can improve both access to professional care and accurate 
preventive oral health messages. Health professional training programmes should 
emphasise the importance of good oral health to overall health. Such an emphasis 
will help galvanise health care workers in the delivery of services. The 
ultimate goal for the government, health professionals and educators should be 
to move the Tanzanian people toward a greater understanding of oral health and 
the prevention of oral diseases, a goal which might also be set elsewhere in 
Africa.

PMID: 11561882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2001 Sep 19;93(18):1392-400. doi:
10.1093/jnci/93.18.1392.

Collapsin response mediator protein-1 and the invasion and metastasis of cancer 
cells.

Shih JY(1), Yang SC, Hong TM, Yuan A, Chen JJ, Yu CJ, Chang YL, Lee YC, Peck K, 
Wu CW, Yang PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2001 Sep 19;93(18):1364-5.

BACKGROUND: Numerous genetic changes are associated with metastasis and invasion 
of cancer cells. To identify differentially expressed invasion-associated genes, 
we screened a panel of lung cancer cell lines (CL(1-0), CL(1-1), CL(1-5), and 
CL(1-5)-F(4) in order of increasing invasive activity) for such genes and 
selected one gene, collapsin response mediator protein-1 (CRMP-1), to 
characterize.
METHODS: We used a microarray containing 9600 gene sequences to assess gene 
expression in the cell panel and selected the differentially expressed CRMP-1 
gene for further study. We confirmed the differential expression of CRMP-1 with 
northern and western blot analyses. After transfecting and overexpressing CRMP-1 
in highly invasive CL(1-5) cells, the cells were assessed morphologically and 
with an in vitro invasion assay. We used enhanced green fluorescent 
protein-tagged CRMP-1 and fluorescence microscopy to localize CRMP-1 
intracellularly. CRMP-1 expression in 80 lung cancer specimens was determined by 
real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). 
All statistical tests were two-sided.
RESULTS: Expression of CRMP-1 was inversely associated with invasive activity in 
the cell panel, an observation confirmed by northern and western blot analyses. 
CRMP-1-transfected CL(1-5) cells became rounded and had fewer filopodia and 
statistically significantly lower in vitro invasive activity than untransfected 
cells (all P< .001). During interphase, CRMP-1 protein was present uniformly 
throughout the cytoplasm and sometimes in the nucleus; during mitosis, CRMP-1 
was associated with mitotic spindles, centrosomes, and the midbody (in late 
telophase). Real-time RT-PCR of lung cancer specimens showed that reduced 
expression of CRMP-1 was statistically significantly associated with advanced 
