disease (stage III or IV; P = .010), lymph node metastasis (N1, N2, and N3; P 
=.043), early postoperative relapse (P = .030), and shorter survival (P = .016).
CONCLUSIONS: CRMP-1 appears to be involved in cancer invasion and metastasis and 
may be an invasion-suppressor gene.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/93.18.1392
PMID: 11562390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Thorax. 2001 Oct;56(10):779-84. doi: 10.1136/thorax.56.10.779.

Cost effectiveness of an outpatient multidisciplinary pulmonary rehabilitation 
programme.

Griffiths TL(1), Phillips CJ, Davies S, Burr ML, Campbell IA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Respiratory Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Wales 
College of Medicine, Llandough Hospital, Penarth, Vale of Glamorgan CF64 2XX, 
UK. griffithstl@cardiff.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary rehabilitation programmes improve the health of patients 
disabled by lung disease but their cost effectiveness is unproved. We undertook 
a cost/utility analysis in conjunction with a randomised controlled clinical 
trial of pulmonary rehabilitation versus standard care.
METHODS: Two hundred patients, mainly with chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, were randomly assigned to either an 18 visit, 6 week rehabilitation 
programme or standard medical management. The difference between the mean cost 
of 12 months of care for patients in the rehabilitation and control groups 
(incremental cost) and the difference between the two groups in quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained (incremental utility) were determined. The ratio 
between incremental cost and utility (incremental cost/utility ratio) was 
calculated.
RESULTS: Each rehabilitation programme for up to 20 patients cost pound 12,120. 
The mean incremental cost of adding rehabilitation to standard care was pound 
-152 (95% CI -881 to 577) per patient, p=NS. The incremental utility of adding 
rehabilitation was 0.030 (95% CI 0.002 to 0.058) QALYs per patient, p=0.03. The 
point estimate of the incremental cost/utility ratio was therefore negative. The 
bootstrapping technique was used to model the distribution of cost/utility 
estimates possible from the data. A high likelihood of generating QALYs at 
negative or relatively low cost was indicated. The probability of the cost per 
QALY generated being below pound 0 was 0.64.
CONCLUSIONS: This outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation programme produces cost 
per QALY ratios within bounds considered to be cost effective and is likely to 
result in financial benefits to the health service.

DOI: 10.1136/thorax.56.10.779
PMCID: PMC1745931
PMID: 11562517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Rev Neurol. 2001 Jun 16-30;32(12):1178-81.

[Profile of Alzheimer's disease in women].

[Article in Spanish]

Villarroya-Pastor MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario La Fe. Valencia. España. mvillarroyap@meditex.es

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease is 1.5 to 3 times more frequent in women than 
in men. This fact can be biased as women as a group have more long life 
survival. Semantic memory and naming are more frequently and severely impaired 
in women.
DEVELOPMENT: Both genetic and environmental factors can contribute when one 
determined case develops Alzheimer's disease. A known risk factor for this 
development in women is oestrogen deprivation in menopause: accumulated evidence 
does exist. After menopause, plasmatic levels of two main oestrogens, oestradiol 
and oestrone, fall. It has been suggested that this estrogenic deprivation would 
increase the risk of development of Alzheimer's disease in women. Conversely, 
estrogenic replacement could decrease that risk. There are several 
neurotransmitters whose systems were influenced by estrogens. Amongst them, 
there are included acetylcholine, serotonin and norepinephrine. Estrogenic 
replacement could ameliorate the brain function or also delay the development of 
Alzheimer's dementia syndrome, by acting over a number of metabolic targets. 
Prospectively, some action on certain groups of women at risk must be analyzed. 
Neuropsychological testing ad hoc will be evaluated, both for the patients with 
clinical disease and for the population at risk, in this late case to ascertain 
a possible delay in the appearance of Alzheimer's disease symptoms.

PMID: 11562850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Rev Neurol. 2001 Jul 16-31;33(2):123-7.

[The efficacy of lamotrigine in refractory infantile epilepsy].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-González MJ(1), Ruiz CL, Garaizar C, Prats JM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Cruces, Baracaldo, 48903, España.

INTRODUCTION: The new antiepileptic drugs should also be evaluated outside 
clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: To study the efficacy of treatment with lamotrigine in everyday 
neuropaediatric clinical practice.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We made a longitudinal study of all patients treated with 
lamotrigine in a hospital outpatients department. The efficacy was evaluated by: 
1. The number of patients showing partial response (>/=50% reduction in seizures 
as compared to the basal rate), and total response maintained throughout the 
follow up period. 2. Duration of treatment, studied using the Kaplan Meier 
method.
RESULTS: 80 patients treated with LTG had as the aetiology of their seizures: 
idiopathic 3.7%, cryptogenic (51.3%) and symptomatic (45%). We found there to be 
partial control during the first three months of treatment in 60.8% of the 
patients, which was maintained after 12 months in 43.1%, and after three years 
in 30.7%. Total control of the seizures after three months was found in 14.8%, 
after twelve months in 9.8% and after three years in 3.8%. The probability of 
treatment with lamotrigine being maintained for six months was 86%, for twelve 
months 61% and for three years 31%. Lamotrigine was suspended in 38 patients 
(47.5%). Side effects were reported in five cases.
CONCLUSIONS: In clinical practice, the therapeutic effect not only consists of 
the percentage of patients who respond to treatment, but also the length of time 
this response is maintained. In our study, both measurements of effect showed 
results similar to those with classical antiepileptic drugs.

PMID: 11562870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Med. 2001;32(3-4):241-7.

Human umbilical cord blood cells ameliorate Alzheimer's disease in transgenic 
mice.

Ende N(1), Chen R, Ende-Harris D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Medicine and 
Dentistry of New Jersey, New Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103, USA.

Having had success in extending the life of mice with a transgene for amyotropic 
lateral sclerosis (SOD1) mice and Huntington's disease (Hdexon1), we 
administered megadoses of human umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells to mice 
with Alzheimer's disease. These mice have an over-expression of human Alzheimer 
amyloid precursor protein (APP), die early and develop a CNS disorder that 
includes neophobia. When given 110 x 10(6) human umbilical cord blood 
mononuclear cells, these mice (HuAPP 695.SWE) had considerable extension of life 
with a p value of 0.001 when compared to control animals.

PMID: 11563821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2001 Oct;12(5):441-9. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.120503.x.

Implant versus tooth-implant supported prostheses in the posterior maxilla: a 
2-year report.

Lindh T(1), Bäck T, Nyström E, Gunne J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Faculty of Medicine and Odontology, Umeå 
University, SE-901 85 Umeå, Sweden. tomas.lindh@odont.umu.se

When implants are used for restoration of a jaw with a residual dentition, the 
possibility of combining implants with natural abutments may be considered. In a 
longitudinal comparative study, 26 patients (15 women & 11 men, age 49-84 years) 
with residual anterior dentitions were treated with two different designs of 
fixed partial dentures bilaterally in the posterior maxilla. On one side the 
reconstruction was supported by implants only, while on the contralateral side 
an implant and a tooth in combination were used. The patients were followed at 
intervals of 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after loading of the implants. 95 implants 
were placed, of which 11 non-loaded. A total of 10 implants failed, 7 prior to 
loading and three within the first three months of service (88.0+/-SE 6.7% 
cumulative survival for tested implants after two years' follow-up). There was 
no difference in failure rate for the implants in the two different prosthesis 
designs. The total mean loss of marginal bone height close to the implants was 
within acceptable standards, but was more pronounced at the implants not 
combined with teeth. The results indicate a correlation between the prosthesis 
design and the loss of marginal bone.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.120503.x
PMID: 11564103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2001 Sep-Oct;18(5):343-6. doi: 
10.1177/104990910101800510.

The palliative use of high-dose corticosteroids in three terminally ill patients 
with pain.

Rousseau P(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

Corticosteroids are valuable pharmacological adjuncts utilized in the management 
of the diverse symptoms observed in terminally ill patients, including bone, 
neuropathic, and hepatic pain, asthenia and fatigue, and anorexia, and serve as 
an adjunct for the treatment of nausea and vomiting. If relief of suffering is 
the goal and mandate of palliative care, high-dose corticosteroids should be 
utilized in terminally ill patients for quickly reducing pain and improving 
quality of life for both patients and family members. In patients with a limited 
life expectancy of days to several weeks, long-term side effects will not occur 
and therefore should not preclude the continuous use of corticosteroids until 
the patient's death. Three case studies are presented.

DOI: 10.1177/104990910101800510
PMID: 11565188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Arch Cardiol Mex. 2001 Jan-Mar;71(1):73-7.

[Is the tricuspid valve an enigma? Surgical treatment: valvuloplasty or valve 
change? Which prosthesis?].

[Article in Spanish]

Juárez Hernández A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez, 
Presa No. 206-17, San Jerónimo Lídice, C.P. 10200.

An extensive review of the literature on the diagnosis and surgical treatment of 
the tricuspid valve is presented. As a result of this research, it is evident 
that a satisfactory diagnostic procedure for this valve has not yet been 
achieved, as is the case with the other cardiac valves; thus, doubts remain 
regarding the specific indications for surgical treatment. Nevertheless, there 
exists some consensus among the most experienced specialists on the 
possibilities of surgery, particular by in determining whether the injury is 
organic or not. Different groups accept that when the problem is insufficiency 
by dilatation of the ring, surgery should be conservative. However, if a serious 
organic injury is found, substitution by a bioprosthesis may be the first 
option. Only if the valve injury is too severe, or in special cases, like in 
young patients with a long life expectancy, the use of mechanical valves would 
be indicated.

PMID: 11565365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Womens Health Issues. 2001 Sep-Oct;11(5):397-400. doi: 
10.1016/s1049-3867(01)00126-8.

Counseling to prevent unintended pregnancies: measuring its value.

Grimes DA(1), Gallo MF.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1049-3867(01)00126-8
PMID: 11566282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Med Care. 2001 Oct;39(10):1037-8. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00001.

How should the minimum important difference for a health-related quality-of-life 
instrument be estimated?

Samsa G.

Comment on
    Med Care. 2001 Oct;39(10):1039-47.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00001
PMID: 11567166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Med Care. 2001 Oct;39(10):1039-47. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00002.

Relation of distribution- and anchor-based approaches in interpretation of 
changes in health-related quality of life.

Norman GR(1), Sridhar FG, Guyatt GH, Walter SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. norman@mcmaster.ca

Comment in
    Med Care. 2001 Oct;39(10):1037-8.

BACKGROUND: Approaches to interpretation of quality of life changes in clinical 
trials have fallen into two camps: those that rely on the distribution of 
changes and the Effect Size (ES), and those that use some external anchor, such 
as patient judgments of change, which is then used to compute a Minimally 
Important Difference (MID), the proportion benefiting from treatment, p(B), and 
the Number Needed to Treat (NNT).
OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between the ES and p(B), and the impact 
of the MID on this relationship.
METHODS: Simulation was used based on a normal distribution to compute the 
proportion of patients benefiting in both parallel group and crossover designs, 
for various values of the ES and the MID. The agreement of the simulation with 
empirical data from four studies of asthma and respiratory disease was assessed. 
The effect of skewness in the distributions of change scores on the relationship 
between ES and p(B) was also examined.
RESULTS: The simulation showed a near-linear relationship between ES and p(B), 
which was nearly independent of the value of the MID. Agreement of the 
simulation with the empirical data were excellent. Although the curves differed 
for crossover and parallel group designs, the general form was similar. 
Introducing moderate skew into the distributions had minimal impact on the 
relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: The proportion of patients who will benefit from treatment can be 
directly estimated from the ES, and is nearly independent of the choice of MID. 
Effect size and anchor based approaches provide equivalent information in this 
situation.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00002
PMID: 11567167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Med Care. 2001 Oct;39(10):1131-41. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00010.

Public health impact of changes in smoking behavior: results from the Tobacco 
Policy Model.

Tengs TO(1), Osgood ND, Lin TH.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Ecology, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-7075, 
USA. tengs@uci.edu

OBJECTIVES: The relative magnitude of the public health gains from preventing 
smoking initiation versus encouraging cessation or avoiding relapse in different 
ages and genders is estimated and compared.
METHODS: Health gains are defined as the predicted increase in Quality-Adjusted 
Life-Years (QALYs) to the US population during a century. To estimate QALYs, we 
developed the Tobacco Policy Model. The model simulates a 10% reduction in the 
annual probability of initiation versus a 10% increase in cessation versus a 10% 
reduction in relapse in males and females in six age groups: 10 to 19, 20 to 29, 
30 to 39, 40 to 49, 50 to 59 and 60 to 69.
RESULTS: Among youth and young adults, reducing initiation yields far more QALYs 
than encouraging cessation or averting relapse. In middle-aged adults, cessation 
yields the most QALYs, followed by averting relapse and reducing initiation. In 
the oldest age group, averting relapse yields the most QALYs followed by 
cessation and reducing initiation. In general, increasing cessation and reducing 
relapse is more beneficial in males than in females whereas reducing initiation 
is more beneficial in females.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative value of preventing initiation, encouraging cessation, 
and averting relapse differs by age and gender. Reducing initiation in youth is 
likely to offer the largest public health impact during the next century.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200110000-00010
PMID: 11567175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Am J Med Genet. 2001 Oct 1;103(2):106-14. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1527.

Parental attitudes toward a diagnosis in children with unidentified multiple 
congenital anomaly syndromes.

Rosenthal ET(1), Biesecker LG, Biesecker BB.

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetic Branch, NHGRI/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA. etrosenthal@ucsd.edu

One of the most common and unsatisfying situations encountered in medical 
genetics clinics is the child with multiple congenital anomalies (MCAs) 
suggestive of an underlying syndrome for whom it is not possible to make a 
definitive diagnosis. We undertook a qualitative, descriptive study to learn 
more about the ways in which the lack of a diagnosis affects parental coping and 
adjustment to their child's special needs. Semistructured interviews were 
conducted with 29 parents of 16 children born with an unidentified MCA syndrome. 
Interviews were based on a small number of open-ended questions, with follow-up 
probing, asking about parents' experiences with seeking a diagnosis, obtaining 
treatment and special services, explaining their child's problems to others, 
reproductive decision making, and support group participation. Transcripts of 
interviews were analyzed to identify the principal themes surrounding parents' 
beliefs about the significance of diagnostic information. The parents in this 
study had been aware of their child's anomalies for 2-23 years, and all had 
sought multiple evaluations to find a diagnosis. A majority of parents were 
still interested in identifying their child's syndrome, but most felt that their 
interest in a diagnosis had diminished over time, and some felt that there were 
benefits in not having this information. We identified six areas where parents 
claimed a diagnosis would have impact: labels, causes, prognosis, treatment, 
acceptance, and social support. Significant issues included obtaining special 
education services, anticipating the child's future and potential medical 
complications, life expectancy, recurrence risks, finding sources of social 
support, and ensuring that the child was receiving appropriate treatment. We 
conclude that the significance of diagnostic information is complex and varies 
for different parents. Providers should explore the underlying issues associated 
with a parental quest for a diagnosis in order to identify and address specific 
concerns. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1527
PMID: 11568915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Lancet. 2001 Sep 8;358(9284):842-3. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)05989-X.

Sex and gender matter.

Rieder A, Meryn S.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2001 May 12;357(9267):1506.
    Lancet. 2001 May 12;357(9267):1512.
    Lancet. 2001 May 26;357(9269):1685-91.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)05989-X
PMID: 11570408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2001 Sep 14;50(36):780-3.

Influence of homicide on racial disparity in life expectancy--United States, 
1998.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Life expectancy (LE) is an important indicator of the health of populations. 
Since the early 1900s, when estimates of LE began to be tabulated in the United 
States, the LE of blacks has been lower than that of whites (1). Homicide, which 
disproportionately affects blacks, particularly young males, contributes to this 
difference in LE. To examine the associations between homicide, LE, and race, 
CDC analyzed 1998 mortality files from the National Center for Health Statistics 
(NCHS). This report summarizes the results of that analysis, which indicate, 
that in 1998, the LE for blacks was approximately 6 years shorter than for 
whites and that, after heart disease and cancer, homicide was the next largest 
contributor to the 6-year discrepancy. Violence prevention strategies (e.g., 
programs for youth offenders) have been implemented for the general population. 
More research is needed to determine an approach to target the male black 
population and to reduce LE disparity.

PMID: 11570485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2001 Sep;43(9):634-8. doi: 10.1017/s0012162201001153.

Adult outcome of childhood learning disability.

O'Brien G(1).

Author information:
(1)Northgate Hospital, Morpeth, Northumberland, UK.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162201001153
PMID: 11570634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Proc Biol Sci. 2001 Oct 7;268(1480):1977-83. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2001.1786.

Reproductive investment in pre-industrial humans: the consequences of offspring 
number, gender and survival.

Lummaa V(1).

Author information:
(1)Large Animal Research Group, Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, 
Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, UK. VAL23@cam.ac.uk

The number and gender of offspring produced in a current reproductive event can 
affect a mother's future reproductive investment and success. I studied the 
subsequent reproductive outcome of pre-industrial (1752-1850) Finnish mothers 
producing twins versus singletons of differing gender. I predicted that giving 
birth to and raising twins instead of singletons, and males instead of females, 
would incur a greater reproductive effort and, hence, lead to larger future 
reproductive costs for mothers. I compared the mothers' likelihood of 
reproducing again in the future, their time to next reproduction and the gender 
and survival of their next offspring. I found that mothers who produced twins 
were more likely to stop breeding or breed unsuccessfully in the future as 
compared with women of a similar age and reproductive history who produced a 
same-gender singleton child. As predicted, the survival and gender of the 
offspring produced modified the costs of reproduction for the mothers. Giving 
birth to and raising males generally appeared to be the most expensive strategy, 
but this effect was only detected in mothers who produced twins and, thus, 
suffering from higher overall costs of reproduction.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2001.1786
PMCID: PMC1088838
PMID: 11571043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Transplantation. 2001 Sep 15;72(5):861-8. doi:
10.1097/00007890-200109150-00021.

Living-donor versus cadaveric liver transplantation for non-resectable small 
hepatocellular carcinoma and compensated cirrhosis: a decision analysis.

Cheng SJ(1), Pratt DS, Freeman RB Jr, Kaplan MM, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, 750 
Washington St, PO Box 302, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cadaveric liver transplantation is effective for nonresectable early 
hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the scarcity of cadaveric organs has prompted 
some centers to use living donors, which guarantees transplantation, but entails 
a risk to the donor. In the absence of controlled trials, decision analysis can 
be used to help explicate the tradeoffs involved when considering living donor 
versus cadaveric liver transplantation for nonresectable early hepatocellular 
carcinoma.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, a hypothetical cohort of patients with Child's A 
cirrhosis and a single 3.5-cm tumor received one of three strategies: 1) no 
transplant; 2) intent to perform cadaveric liver transplantation; or 3) living 
donor liver transplantation. Data were obtained from natural history and 
retrospective studies. All probabilities in the model were varied simultaneously 
using a Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Living-donor liver transplantation was the best strategy, improving 
life expectancy by 4.5 years compared with cadaveric liver transplantation. This 
strategy remained dominant even when varying severity of cirrhosis, age, tumor 
doubling time, tumor growth pattern, blood type, regional transplant volume, 
initial tumor size, and rate of progression of cirrhosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Living-donor liver transplantation should confer a substantial 
survival advantage for patients with compensated cirrhosis and non-resectable 
early stage hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-200109150-00021
PMID: 11571451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2001 Sep;30(3):545-63. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70201-2.

Diagnosis and management of growth hormone deficiency in adults.

Stavrou S(1), Kleinberg DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New 
York, USA.

In adults, GHD is a clinical syndrome that occurs in patients with pituitary or 
hypothalamic disease. It may be asymptomatic or present with relatively 
nonspecific constitutional symptoms. Most patients have abnormal body 
composition, consisting of increased fat mass and decreased lean mass. Life 
expectancy is significantly decreased in hypopituitary patients with GHD, with 
cardiovascular disease a common cause of death. Treatment with growth hormone 
reverses abnormalities in body composition and may reduce cardiovascular risk 
factors; however, the long-term treatment outcomes regarding mortality, the 
incidence of cardiovascular disease, bone fractures, tumor development, and 
recurrence are not known. Longer prospective clinical studies are needed. The 
major manufacturers of growth hormone have initiated postmarketing surveillance 
databases to monitor the safety of growth hormone treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70201-2
PMID: 11571930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Sep 8;145(36):1752-5.

[Performance of the Dutch health care from an international perspective: 
background and implications for policy].

[Article in Dutch]

Kramers PG(1), Achterberg PW, van der Wilk EA.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Centrum Volksgezondheid 
Toekomst Verkenningen, Postbus 1, 3720 BA Bilthoven. pgn.kramers@rivm.nl

The 'World Health Report 2000' has stimulated discussions on the Netherlands' 
performance in health and healthcare from an international perspective. The only 
concrete result it provided was a world ranking in which the Netherlands stood 
in 17th place. The comparative data which have appeared in several other recent 
reports, are more useful to policy makers, a notable example being those from 
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). One issue 
arising from these reports is that the increase in life expectancy in the 
Netherlands is lagging behind the European Union average. This is particularly 
the case for women and a major cause of this is smoking. Developments in Dutch 
perinatal mortality are also unfavourable and are associated with a strong 
increase in the age at which women bear children. International comparisons of 
public health data are valuable inputs for health policy development and it is 
therefore important to invest in the international harmonisation of such data 
collection.

PMID: 11572179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. JAMA. 2001 Sep 26;286(12):1482-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.286.12.1482.

Cost-effectiveness of automated external defibrillators on airlines.

Groeneveld PW(1), Kwong JL, Liu Y, Rodriguez AJ, Jones MP, Sanders GD, Garber 
AM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, 179 Encina Commons, MC 6019, 
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. petegro@healthpolicy.stanford.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2002 Feb 6;287(5):584-5.

CONTEXT: Installation of automated external defibrillators (AEDs) on passenger 
aircraft has been shown to improve survival of cardiac arrest in that setting, 
but the cost-effectiveness of such measures has not been proven.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the costs and effectiveness of several different options 
for AED deployment in the US commercial air transportation system.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND SUBJECTS: Decision and cost-effectiveness analysis of a 
strategy of full deployment on all aircraft as well as several strategies of 
partial deployment only on larger aircraft, compared with a baseline strategy of 
no AEDs on aircraft (but training flight attendants in basic life support) for a 
hypothetical cohort of persons experiencing cardiac arrest aboard US commercial 
aircraft. Estimates for costs and outcomes were obtained from the medical 
literature, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Air Transport Association 
of America, a population-based cohort of Medicare patients, AED manufacturers, 
and the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted survival after cardiac arrest; costs of 
AED deployment on aircraft and of medical care for cardiac arrest survivors.
RESULTS: Adding AEDs on passenger aircraft with more than 200 passengers would 
cost $35 300 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Additional AEDs on 
aircraft with capacities between 100 and 200 persons would cost an additional 
$40 800 per added QALY compared with deployment on large-capacity aircraft only, 
and full deployment on all passenger aircraft would cost an additional $94 700 
per QALY gained compared with limited deployment on aircraft with capacity 
greater than 100. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the quality of life, 
annual mortality rate, and the effectiveness of AEDs in improving survival were 
the most influential factors in the model. In 85% of Monte Carlo simulations, 
AED placement on large-capacity aircraft produced cost-effectiveness ratios of 
less than $50 000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of placing AEDs on commercial aircraft 
compares favorably with the cost-effectiveness of widely accepted medical 
interventions and health policy regulations, but is critically dependent on the 
passenger capacity of the aircraft. Placing AEDs on most US commercial aircraft 
would meet conventional standards of cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.286.12.1482
PMID: 11572741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Can J Gastroenterol. 2001 Sep;15(9):586-90. doi: 10.1155/2001/745361.

Colonic disorders in adult cystic fibrosis.

Chaun H(1).

Author information:
(1)St Paul's Hospital and University of British Columbia, 805 West Broadway, 
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1K1, Canada. hchaun@compuserve.com

By 1996, the median survival of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) in North 
America had increased to 31 years. With the markedly improved life expectancy, 
many CF patients are now adults. There is an associated increased risk of 
certain colonic disorders, and the emergence of other previously unrecognized 
disorders, in adult CF patients. The distal intestinal obstruction syndrome 
(DIOS), which is more common in older patients, is a frequent cause of abdominal 
pain. Intussusception may complicate DIOS; other differential diagnoses include 
appendiceal disease, volvolus, Crohn's disease, fibrosing colonopathy and 
colonic carcinoma. The diagnosis of acute appendicitis, although uncommon in 
patients with CF, is often delayed, and appendiceal abscess is a frequent 
complication. The prevalence of Crohn's disease in CF has been shown to be 17 
times that of the general population. Right-sided microscopic colitis is a 
recently recognized entity in CF of uncertain clinical significance. Fibrosing 
colonopathy has been confined mostly to children with CF, attributed to the use 
of high strength pancreatic enzyme supplements, but it has been reported in 
three adults. Nine cases of carcinoma of the large intestine have been reported 
worldwide, associated with an apparent excess risk of digestive tract cancers in 
CF. Despite high carrier rates of Clostridium difficile in patients with CF, 
pseudomembranous colitis is distinctly rare, but severe cases complicated by 
toxic megacolon have been reported. In these patients, watery diarrhea is often 
absent. Adult CF patients with refractory or unexplained intestinal symptoms 
merit thorough investigations.

DOI: 10.1155/2001/745361
PMID: 11573101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Newsweek. 2001 Sep 17;138(12):58.

Alzheimer's. A dignity in dementia.

Cowley G.

PMID: 11573364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Biochem. 2001 Oct;130(4):569-74. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a003020.

Transcriptional regulation of the Bacillus subtilis bscR-CYP102A3 operon by the 
BscR repressor and differential induction of cytochrome CYP102A3 expression by 
oleic acid and palmitate.

Lee TR(1), Hsu HP, Shaw GC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, School of Life Science, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

The adjacent yrhI and yrhJ genes were identified by the Bacillus subtilis genome 
sequencing project. We now report that yrhJ (renamed CYP102A3) encodes a 
cytochrome P450 and that yrhI (renamed bscR) encodes a repressor that negatively 
regulates the transcription of the bscR-CYP102A3 operon. The transcriptional 
initiation site of bscR has been mapped by primer extension analysis. An 18-bp 
perfect palindromic sequence centered 65.5 bp downstream from the 
transcriptional initiation site of bscR has been identified as the binding site 
for BscR by gel mobility shift assays. Base substitutions in the 18-bp inverted 
repeat resulted in derepression of the bscR-xylE transcriptional fusion in vivo. 
bscR-xylE fusion studies and Northern blot analysis revealed that oleic acid and 
palmitate could induce the expression of the bscR-CYP102A3 operon to a 
considerable extent. However, only oleic acid was capable of preventing the 
binding of BscR to its operator DNA in vitro, suggesting that the induction of 
CYP102A3 expression by oleic acid and palmitate in B. subtilis might be mediated 
through different mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a003020
PMID: 11574077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Gerontologist. 2001 Oct;41(5):692-4. doi: 10.1093/geront/41.5.692.

Longevity news and trends in the United States and abroad.

Nyberg J(1).

Author information:
(1)International Longevity Center, New York, NY 10028, USA. jimm@ilcusa.org

DOI: 10.1093/geront/41.5.692
PMID: 11574715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Oncology. 2001;61(3):197-204. doi: 10.1159/000055375.

Clinical prognostic factors for patients with recurrent head and neck cancer: 
implications for randomized trials.

Pivot X(1), Niyikiza C, Poissonnet G, Dassonville O, Bensadoun RJ, Guardiola E, 
Foa C, Benezery K, Demard F, Thyss A, Schneider M.

Author information:
(1)Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, Nice, France. xavier.pivot@cal.nice.fnclcc.fr

The purpose of our study was to determine the clinical prognostic factors for 
the duration of the overall survival from recurrence (OSR) in patients with 
recurrent head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma. We performed a retrospective 
analysis on 496 patients treated between 1982 and 1993 at the Antoine Lacassagne 
Center. The significant favorable prognostic factors for the OSR were: initial 
T(1-2) (p = 0.008), no initial nodal involvement (p = 0.002), no initial 
chemotherapy exposure (p = 0.002), induction chemotherapy response (p = 0.001), 
duration of disease-free interval (DFI; p = 0.0001), performance status (PS) 0-1 
(p = 0.004) and local-regional recurrence (p = 0.001). In the multivariate 
analysis, the apparent nonsignificance of all factors apart from the DFI 
suggested that relevant prognostic factors could be embedded in the DFI. 
Multivariate analysis was performed after excluding the DFI. The results 
indicated that local-regional recurrence, PS 0-1 and no initial chemotherapy 
exposure remained significant favorable prognostic factors for the OSR. The 
advantages of taking into account such prognostic factors are to eliminate the 
patient selection bias and to ensure a fairer comparative evaluation of new or 
already existing agents in recurrent head and neck cancer.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000055375
PMID: 11574775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Med Decis Making. 2001 Sep-Oct;21(5):391-408. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0102100506.

Optimal investment in a portfolio of HIV prevention programs.

Zaric GS(1), Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Ivey School of Business, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: In this article, the authors determine the optimal allocation of HIV 
prevention funds and investigate the impact of different allocation methods on 
health outcomes.
METHODS: The authors present a resource allocation model that can be used to 
determine the allocation of HIV prevention funds that maximizes quality-adjusted 
life years (or life years) gained or HIV infections averted in a population over 
a specified time horizon. They apply the model to determine the allocation of a 
limited budget among 3 types of HIV prevention programs in a population of 
injection drug users and nonusers: needle exchange programs, methadone 
maintenance treatment, and condom availability programs. For each prevention 
program, the authors estimate a production function that relates the amount 
invested to the associated change in risky behavior.
RESULTS: The authors determine the optimal allocation of funds for both 
objective functions for a high-prevalence population and a low-prevalence 
population. They also consider the allocation of funds under several common 
rules of thumb that are used to allocate HIV prevention resources. It is shown 
that simpler allocation methods (e.g., allocation based on HIV incidence or 
notions of equity among population groups) may lead to alloctions that do not 
yield the maximum health benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimal allocation of HIV prevention funds in a population 
depends on HIV prevalence and incidence, the objective function, the production 
functions for the prevention programs, and other factors. Consideration of cost, 
equity, and social and political norms may be important when allocating HIV 
prevention funds. The model presented in this article can help decision makers 
determine the health consequences of different allocations of funds.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100506
PMID: 11575489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Tech Urol. 2001 Sep;7(3):188-95.

Ureteroileal anastomosis in orthotopic urinary diversion: how much or how little 
is necessary?

Stenzl A(1), Hobisch A, Strasser H, Bartsch G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Innsbruck Medical School, Austria.

PURPOSE: An increasing number of patients with an orthotopic neobladder and 
their expanding life expectancy necessitate an effective antireflux protection 
of the upper urinary tract. During the evolution of urinary diversion in the 
20th century, several techniques to perform an ureteroileal anastomosis have 
been introduced. Those techniques most commonly used for orthotopic neobladders 
are discussed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Vascularization of both the ureteral ends and the 
recipient bowel as well as a meticulous surgical technique are necessary to 
reduce the reported postoperative stricture rate, which ranges between 3% and 
30%. Variations such as preservation of additional periureteral adventitial 
tissue and its use for coverage of the ureterointestinal suture line are 
described. High-pressure urinary reflux may lead to mechanical damage of the 
renal parenchyma, whereas low-pressure occasional reflux in conjunction with 
chronic bacteriuria will lead to pyelonephritic changes and eventually 
deterioration of renal function. An intraluminal valve mechanism with increasing 
efficiency during pouch filling is clearly the most physiological form of 
antireflux mechanism. Interposition of an afferent ileal limb in addition to the 
antireflux valve seems advantageous due to the favorable vascularization in the 
dissected midureter.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased life expectancy in patients with orthotopic neobladders 
will increase the number of cases where access to the upper urinary tract 
becomes necessary due to a benign or malignant disease. Any technique that 
simultaneously provides an efficient antireflux mechanism and facilitates 
retrograde manipulation of the ureters (via the pouch) will be greatly 
appreciated by both patients and treating physicians.

PMID: 11575515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Presse Med. 2001 Sep 1;30(24 Pt 2):24-6.

[Liver transplantation and living donors].

[Article in French]

Campan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital de la Conception, Marseille.

LIVER SPLITTING: Classically, cadaver livers are split ex situ to provide two 
grafts for transplantation. This procedure could be performed in situ, limiting 
the duration of the operation and improving recovery of liver function. LIVING 
RELATED DONORS: Living donor liver transplantation is a well established 
technique in children. Donor mortality is nil and morbidity very acceptable. For 
adults, the results have been less satisfactory with increasing risk for the 
recipient, with biliary and venous problems due to the "small-for-size" implant. 
ORGAN HARVESTING: The left lobe, classically used for children, can also be 
grafted into adults, but under certain restrictive conditions. If the donor's 
residual liver volume is below 0.8% of the total body mass, the biological 
alterations remain limited and transient. EMERGENCY TRANSPLANTATIONS: Liver 
transplantations using a living donor can save critically ill patients with a 
life expectancy of less than 3 months. Remarkable survival rates have been 
achieved.

PMID: 11577581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Aug;7(4):223-31.

Early and long-term results of cardiovascular surgery in octogenarians.

Shigemitsu O(1), Hadama T, Miyamoto S, Anai H, Sako H, Wada T, Iwata E.

Author information:
(1)Emergency Center and Cardiovascular Surgery, Oita Medical University, 
Hasama-machi, Oita 879-5593, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate characteristics and outcomes of 
octogenarians undergoing cardiovascular surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass in a 
Japanese population. Thirty-one consecutive patients over 80 years of age 
underwent coronary artery bypass grafting 19 (61%), combined coronary artery 
bypass grafting and ventricular septal perforation closure 1 (3%), valve 
replacement 3 (10%), and prosthetic graft replacement 8 (26%). The early 
mortality rate was 16.1%. Survival estimates were 74% after 1 year, 74% after 3 
year, and 64% after 5 years. Emergency and urgent cases involved 16 (51.6%), and 
2 patients (6.5%), respectively. Multivariate analyses revealed that predictors 
of early mortality was preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction. 
Predictors of hospital death (within 3 months after surgery) were preoperative 
renal dysfunction, intraaortic balloon pumping, and age. Predictors of late 
mortality were chronic lung disease and age. Twenty-one patients expected to 
have died before surgery were living at home, and 9 (40.9%) patients were 
completely autonomous. Multivariate analyses revealed diabetes mellitus and a 
small number of bypass grafts were predictive risk factors for postoperative 
autonomy. Thus, cardiovascular surgery can be performed in octogenarians under 
85 years of age with a favorable long-term outcome, when appropriately applied 
in selective octogenarians without significant comorbidity. If patients are over 
85 years of age or have significant comorbidity, clinical treatment 
recommendations should be individually tailored while evaluating the risk of 
having or not having surgery and their life expectancy. QOL of survivors was 
almost satisfactory and significantly improved compared with a preoperative 
state.

PMID: 11578263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Rev Esp Med Nucl. 2001 Oct;20(6):439-42.

[Brain SPECT with 201-thallium in AIDS patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Gallardo FG(1), Moreno V, Babe J, Cobo J, Ríos M, Gómez MV.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Nuclear.Hospital Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. 
fgonzalez@hciii.insalud.es

Brain lymphoma is a late complication in AIDS. Lymphoma incidence is increasing 
in AIDS patients due to the introduction of HAART and prolongation of these 
patients' life expectancy. This work aims to evaluate the usefulness of brain 
SPECT with 201Tl in patients with AIDS who present focal brain lesions in 
computed tomography (CT).
METHODS: Seventeen patients with neurologic symptoms and focal neurologic 
lesions in the CNS (central nervous system) were studied. The images were 
interpreted as positive when the intensity of the focal deposit of the tracer 
was greater than that of the adjacent tissue. The SPECT results were compared 
with serologic data, clinical evolution and/or radiologic follow-up and cerebral 
biopsy.
RESULTS: SPECT images showed focal uptake of radiotracer in 3 patients. All 
three died shortly after the SPECT was performed. All of them had negative 
serology for toxoplasmosis. Four patients were diagnosed of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy and the ten remaining cases had a good clinical 
and/or radiologic response.
CONCLUSIONS: Brain SPECT with 201Tl is a very useful non-invasive technique for 
the differential diagnosis of cerebral focal lesions in AIDS patients.

PMID: 11578578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Surv Ophthalmol. 2001 Sep-Oct;46(2):117-42. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6257(01)00245-4.

von Hippel-Lindau disease.

Singh AD(1), Shields CL, Shields JA.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

In recent years advances have been made in the clinical and genetic aspects of 
von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL). Retinal capillary hemangioma is the most common 
manifestation of VHL disease and, therefore, ophthalmologists are frequently 
involved in the care of patients with this disease. The incidence of VHL disease 
is approximately 1 in 40,000 live births. It is estimated that there are 
approximately 7000 patients with VHL disease in the USA. The inheritance of VHL 
disease is autosomal dominant with high penetrance. Depending on the clinical 
circumstances, retinal capillary hemangioma may be managed by observation, laser 
photocoagulation, cryotherapy, and plaque radiotherapy. Typical extraocular 
lesions associated with VHL disease are central nervous system hemangioma, renal 
cyst, renal carcinoma, pancreatic cysts and adenoma, pancreatic islet cell 
tumors, pheochromocytoma, endolymphatic sac tumor of the inner ear, and 
cystadenoma of the epididymis and the broad ligament. The life expectancy of 
affected individuals may be improved by early detection and treatment of varied 
manifestations with the use of surveillance protocols. Identification of the VHL 
gene on chromosome 3p25-26 has now made it possible for suspected individuals to 
undergo genetic testing with a high degree of accuracy. We review herein the 
ophthalmic manifestations and treatment of retinal capillary hemangioma and 
systemic findings of the VHL disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6257(01)00245-4
PMID: 11578646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Clin Oncol. 2001 Oct 1;19(19):3967-75. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.19.3967.

Oral topotecan as single-agent second-line chemotherapy in patients with 
advanced ovarian cancer.

Clarke-Pearson DL(1), Van Le L, Iveson T, Whitney CW, Hanjani P, Kristensen G, 
Malfetano JH, Beckman RA, Ross GA, Lane SR, DeWitte MH, Fields SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, NC 27710-0001, USA. clark011@mc.duke.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate oral topotecan as single-agent, second-line therapy in 
patients with ovarian cancer previously treated with a platinum-based regimen.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (N = 116) received oral topotecan 2.3 mg/m2 daily 
for 5 days every 21 days. Eligibility criteria included histologic diagnosis of 
International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage III or IV epithelial 
ovarian cancer, bidimensionally measurable disease, prior platinum-containing 
chemotherapy, age > or = 18 years, performance status < or = 2, and life 
expectancy > or = 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Overall response rate was 21.6% (25 of 116 patients). Median duration 
of response was 25.0 weeks; median time to response was 8.4 weeks. Median time 
to progression was 14.1 weeks; median survival was 62.2 weeks. Grade 4 
neutropenia was experienced by 50.4% of patients in 13.4% of courses 
administered. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia was experienced by 22.1% of patients in 
5.1% of courses. Grade 3 or 4 anemia was experienced by 29.2% of patients in 
8.5% of courses. Most frequent nonhematologic toxicities were predominantly (> 
90%) grade 1 or 2 and included nausea, alopecia, diarrhea, and vomiting.
CONCLUSION: Second-line oral topotecan administered at 2.3 mg/m2 for 5 days 
every 21 days demonstrated activity in patients with progressive or recurrent 
ovarian cancer after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. This activity was 
comparable to that seen in previous studies with intravenous topotecan. Grade 4 
neutropenia was less frequent with oral topotecan than previously reported for 
intravenous topotecan. Oral topotecan is an active, tolerable, and convenient 
formulation of an established agent for the second-line treatment of advanced 
epithelial ovarian cancer and may also facilitate exploring prolonged treatment 
schedules.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2001.19.19.3967
PMID: 11579118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


