636. Cancer Control. 2001 Sep-Oct;8(5):431-41. doi: 10.1177/107327480100800507.

Management of breast cancer in the older woman.

Balducci L(1), Extermann M, Carreca I.

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

BACKGROUND: Approximately half of all breast cancer cases occur after age 65. 
Several aspects for the treatment of early breast cancer may be influenced by 
patient age, including postoperative irradiation after partial mastectomy, 
axillary lymphadenectomy, primary medical treatment of early breast cancer, and 
adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: The authors review the literature regarding age-specific issues in the 
management of breast cancer, and they report their own experience in treating 
older women with breast cancer.
RESULTS: In terms of survival and disease-free survival, tamoxifen alone in 
primary breast cancer is inferior to surgical treatment followed by adjuvant 
tamoxifen. Tamoxifen alone should be reserved for patients with absolute 
contraindications to mastectomy. Adjuvant chemotherapy is beneficial to women 
with hormone receptor-poor tumors. In those with hormone receptor-rich tumors, 
adjuvant chemotherapy is beneficial for HER2-positive tumors, and the regimen 
should contain an anthracycline.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the risk of local recurrence after partial mastectomy 
declines with increasing age, the decision to forego radiation therapy is 
individualized based on risk of recurrence and on patient desires and resources. 
The advent of lymph node mapping obviates the need for lymphadenectomy in most 
patients. The benefits and risks of adjuvant chemotherapy should be individually 
assessed according to tumor stage, life expectancy, comorbidity, and expected 
tolerance of treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/107327480100800507
PMID: 11579340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2001 Nov;54 Suppl 1:S13-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-8227(01)00304-7.

The cost of diabetes and diabetes care.

BjÃ¶rk S(1).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark. stbj@novonordisk.com

The number of people with diabetes mellitus worldwide is estimated to be 221 
million in 2010 compared to about 124 million in 1997. The dominant part of 
diabetic persons was in 1997 represented by Type 2 (97%). WHO expect the number 
of adults (20 years and older) with diabetes (i.e. a mix of Type 1 and 2) to 
rise to 300 millions in 2025 from 135 millions in year 1995. On average people 
with diabetes are three times more likely to be hospitalized than non-diabetic 
individuals. The risk for hospitalization is slightly diversified, venous 
complications being the least risky (1.7 times) and heart-related complications 
the most risky (3.1 times). The risk of premature death is higher for persons 
with diabetes compared to those without diabetes, and the life time expectancy 
is 10-15 times shorter. US data shows that diabetes is the leading cause of 
blindness and accounts for 40% of the new cases of end-stage renal disease. The 
risk for leg amputation is 15-40 times higher and the risk for heart disease and 
stroke is two to four times higher for people with diabetes compared with people 
without diabetes. Recent studies show that the health care expenditures are as 
much as five times higher for individuals with diabetes compared to individuals 
without diabetes. In Sweden in 1994, three times more resources were spent on 
treating complications compared to what was spent on control of the disease. 
Studies show that intensive treatments cost more than traditional treatment, but 
also cut costs substantially for the treatment of late complications. The main 
message was that early intervention and intensified treatment had a better 
effect on the late complications. The basic message is quite simple: diagnose 
more persons with diabetes earlier, introduce and improve treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8227(01)00304-7
PMID: 11580964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2001 Nov;54 Suppl 1:S37-42. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-8227(01)00307-2.

A computer simulation model for cost-effectiveness analysis of mass screening 
for Type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Chen TH(1), Yen MF, Tung TH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. stony@episerv.cph.ntu.edu.tw

The cost-effectiveness analysis of mass screening for Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(DM) was performed to elucidate whether, who and how often it should be 
conducted in Taiwan. A series of Markov process was developed to model the 
disease natural history of Type 2 DM. A hypothetical cohort with 30,000 
residents aged over 30 years in Taiwan was randomly assigned to three arms of 
screening regimes, biennial, five-yearly and the control group. A Monte Carlo 
computer simulation was performed to calculate effectiveness of two screening 
regimes compared with the control group. Direct costs and utilities were 
incorporated to each corresponding state to calculate the incremental costs per 
life-years gained and per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for biennial and 
five-yearly screening regimes. The incremental costs for biennial screening 
regime were estimated at $26,750 per life-year gained, and $17,833 per QALY. The 
corresponding figures for five-yearly screening regime were $10,531 per 
life-year gained and $17,113 per QALY. The incremental costs per life-year 
gained and per QALY increase with age, ranging from $17,238 for aged 30-39 years 
to $54,700 for aged over 70 years and from $9193 to 36,467, respectively. In 
conclusion, mass screening for Type 2 DM, especially in younger subjects, with 
5-year inter-screening interval is cost-effective in Taiwan.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8227(01)00307-2
PMID: 11580967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Circulation. 2001 Oct 2;104(14):1622-6. doi: 10.1161/hc3901.096720.

Effect of clinical risk stratification on cost-effectiveness of the implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator: the Canadian implantable defibrillator study.

Sheldon R(1), O'Brien BJ, Blackhouse G, Goeree R, Mitchell B, Klein G, Roberts 
RS, Gent M, Connolly SJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Group, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
sheldon@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: Three randomized clinical trials showed that implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) reduce the risk of death in survivors of 
ventricular tachyarrhythmias, but the cost per year of life gained is high. A 
substudy of the Canadian Implantable Defibrillator Study (CIDS) showed that 3 
clinical factors, age >/=70 years, left ventricular ejection fraction </=35%, 
and New York Heart Association class III, predicted the risk of death and 
benefit from the ICD. We estimated the extent to which selecting patients for 
ICD therapy based on these risk factors makes ICD therapy more economically 
attractive.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients in CIDS were grouped according to whether they had 
>/=2 of 3 risk factors. Incremental cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy was 
computed as the ratio of the difference in mean cost to the difference in life 
expectancy between the 2 groups. Over 6.3 years, the mean cost per patient in 
the ICD group was Canadian (C) $87 715 versus $38 600 in the amiodarone group 
(C$1 approximately US$0.67). Life expectancy for the ICD group was 4.58 years 
versus 4.35 years for amiodarone, for an incremental cost-effectiveness of ICD 
therapy of C$213 543 per life-year gained. The cost per life-year gained in 
patients with >/=2 factors was C$65 195, compared with C$916 659 with <2 risk 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy varies by patient risk factor 
status. The use of ICD therapy in patients who have >/=2 risk factors of age 
>/=70 years, left ventricular ejection fraction </=35%, and NYHA class III is 
C$65 195 to gain a year of life.

DOI: 10.1161/hc3901.096720
PMID: 11581139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Adv Gerontol. 2001;8:89-99.

[A low-calories diet as a model of life span expansion and study of mechanisms 
of aging].

[Article in Russian]

Bozhkov AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Biology, Kharkov National University by V.N. Karazin, 
61077, Kharkov, 4 Svobody sq., Ukraine. bozhkov@univer.kharkov.ua

The model of experimental augmentation of life expectancy animal with the help 
of a low-calorie diet designed empirically more 50-[symbol: see text] of years 
back. The translation animal on such diet is accompanied by development of 
stress--response and the further adaptation to restricted power supply. As a 
result of it occurs complex change in all metabolic systems of an organism 
(energy system of a cell, endocrine, immune system, system of toxicity release, 
connecting tissue, activity genetic and system which synthesizes an protein). 
The orientation of these changes provides retardation of development, delay of 
formation age-dependent of pathologies, and as the consequence, augmentation 
average life and, that is especially important, maximal life expectancy. The 
effect of augmentation of life expectancy at use of low-calorie diets depends on 
quantitative restriction of a calorific within the framework of 40-75%, sex and 
genotype animal, age animal at the moment of translation on a diet. The 
proposition expresses, that the prolongation of life at use to a low-calorie 
diet can be surveyed as specific response of some organisms in a population (not 
everything, the part animal perishes in a start of experiment) on such stressful 
action as restriction of nutrition.

PMID: 11582761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Adv Gerontol. 2001;7:72-94.

[The use of mutagenic and transgenic mice for the study of aging mechanisms and 
age pathology].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN(1), Alimova IN.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Aging, N.N. Petrov Research Institute of 
Oncology, St. Petersburg, Pesochny-2, Leningradskaya, 68, 197758, Russia. 
aging@mail.ru

Increased interest is emerging for using mouse models to assess the genetics of 
aging and age-related diseases, cancer including. Despite this demand, 
relatively little information is available on relations between aging and 
spontaneous tumor development in transgenic and null mutant mice. Analysis of 
various transgenic and knockout rodent models which characterized by shortening 
or extension of the life span gives an unique possibility to evaluate the role 
of involved in aging genes in mechanisms of carcinogenesis. Only few models 
represent examples of life span extension. Ames dwarf mutant mice, p66-/- 
knocked out mice, aMUPA and MGMT, transgenic mice live longer than wild-type 
strains. The incidence of spontaneous tumors in these mice was usually similar 
to those in controls, whereas the latent period of tumor development was 
increased. Practically all models of accelerated aging show the increased tumor 
incidence and shortening of tumor latency. This phenomenon has been observed 
both in animals which display phenotype more resemble to the natural aging and 
in animals showed only partial features of normal aging process. These 
observations are in agreement with the data on the positive correlation between 
tumor incidence and the rate of its age-related increase, and the aging rate in 
a population.

PMID: 11582771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2001 May;71(3):154-8. doi: 10.1024/0300-9831.71.3.154.

Mediterranean diet and lifestyle: special aspects of Spain.

Moreiras O(1), Cuadrado C.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de NutriciÃ³n, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid, Spain.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.71.3.154
PMID: 11582836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Soz Praventivmed. 2001;46(4):240-7. doi: 10.1007/BF01593179.

[Men and health--new epidemiological data from Germany in a summary].

[Article in German]

Merbach M(1), Klaiberg A, BrÃ¤hler E.

Author information:
(1)SelbstÃ¤ndige Abteilung fÃ¼r Medizinische Psychologie und Medizinische 
Soziologie, UniversitÃ¤tsklinikum Leipzig. merm@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

Comment in
    Soz Praventivmed. 2001;46(4):217-8.

OBJECTIVES: In epidemiological investigations men are often considered and used 
as the healthy control group. This article aims to provide a detailed overview 
about health in men.
METHODS: Analyses of the indices of health (life expectancy; mortality; state of 
health) and health-related behaviour (drinking, smoking, and eating behaviour; 
use of the health system' services) were performed, using data of the German 
Health Board (1999) and of an health survey in commission of the state (1998) 
plus data from our own representative investigations of 1994 and 1996.
RESULTS: Men, in comparison to women, have a shorter life expectancy as well as 
a higher mortality rate when suffering from cardiac infarction, lung cancer, 
traffic accidents, or suicide. In consideration of health-related behaviour, men 
do smoke and drink more and more frequently than females. In addition, men call 
on the services of the health system to a lesser extent and deny psychological 
influences to their health. Effects of age and differences between East and West 
Germany were obtained.
CONCLUSIONS: The presented data can only be explained by a combination of 
biological, psychological, and sociological perspectives. According to these 
results, investigations of health-related data should focus more on the 
difference between men, on the gender-related role of men in different contexts 
and on the investigation of the sub-group of healthy men.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01593179
PMID: 11582851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Ann Oncol. 2001 Aug;12(8):1107-13. doi: 10.1023/a:1011624829512.

Routine follow-up examinations in breast cancer patients have minimal impact on 
life expectancy: a simulation study.

Jacobs HJ(1), van Dijck JA, de Kleijn EM, Kiemeney LA, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University Medical Centre 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the effects of routine follow-up examinations 
on life expectancy in cancer patients. Lately, the benefits of follow-up 
examinations have been debated, which has given rise to less extensive, though 
still frequent, follow-up strategies. In this study, a simulation model was 
applied to evaluate the impact of different follow-up strategies on life 
expectancy in breast cancer patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A five-state Markov chain model was developed, with which 
various follow-up strategies with regard to frequency and elaborateness were 
simulated. Calculations were based on a hypothetical population of breast cancer 
patients treated with curative intent. Medical aspects were studied, such as 
life expectancy and the proportion of patients who died from breast cancer. 
Social and psychological aspects and quality of life were not taken into 
account. Data from the literature were used to estimate the parameters needed 
for the model.
RESULTS: The gain in life expectancy with standard follow-up compared to no 
follow-up examination, was about 2 months in breast cancer patients aged 50 
years treated with curative intent. The percentage of patients who died from 
breast cancer was 45.4% with standard follow-up, versus 45.8% without follow-up. 
In older women, the gain was even less. Sensitivity analyses showed that the 
effects on life expectancy were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model showed that standard follow-up had minimal impact on the 
prognosis of breast cancer patients. It may be unnecessary to continue standard 
follow-up by medical specialists after the end of the surveillance period of the 
primary therapy, provided that the patients continue to have easy access to 
health care facilities in the case of symptoms or concern. However, future 
research is needed to study quality of life aspects of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011624829512
PMID: 11583192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Bull Entomol Res. 2001 Oct;91(5):347-54. doi: 10.1079/ber2001116.

Comparative development, longevity and population growth of exotic and native 
parasitoids of lepidopteran cereal stemborers in Kenya.

Mbapila JC(1), Overholt WA.

Author information:
(1)Kilombero Agricultural Research and Training Institute (KATRIN), Private Bag, 
Ifakara, Tanzania.

Studies on the effect of temperature on the development, longevity and 
population growth of Cotesia flavipes Cameron and Cotesia sesamiae (Cameron) 
indicated that the development of both Cotesia spp. from oviposition to cocoon 
formation and adult emergence was inversely related to temperature. The 
longevity of the parasitoids was also inversely related to temperature. Both 
parasitoids lived longer when moisture and food (agar + honey/water) were 
provided. The mean number of females and total adult progeny produced by C. 
flavipes on two host species were, in most cases, higher than C. sesamiae. The 
intrinsic rate of natural increase of C. flavipes was higher than that of C. 
sesamiae.

DOI: 10.1079/ber2001116
PMID: 11583597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2001 Oct;38(4):1018-22. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(01)01515-7.

Major risk factors and coronary heart disease: much has been achieved but 
crucial challenges remain.

Daviglus ML, Stamler J.

Comment on
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2001 Oct;38(4):1012-7.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(01)01515-7
PMID: 11583875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Med Genet. 2001 Oct;38(10):674-9. doi: 10.1136/jmg.38.10.674.

An epidemiological study of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome: life expectancy and cause 
of mortality.

Shannon NL(1), Maltby EL, Rigby AS, Quarrell OW.

Author information:
(1)North Trent Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's Hospital, Western Bank, 
Sheffield S10 2TH, UK. nora_shannon@postmaster.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: Early research into Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS) described a high 
mortality and no relationship between deletion size and phenotype. This may need 
to be revised in the light of improved cytogenetic resolution and medical care. 
We have collected epidemiological data to allow the calculation of birth 
incidence and mortality figures. In addition, we have investigated the 
possibility of a relationship between deletion size and mortality.
METHOD: Information relating to past and present cases diagnosed in the UK was 
collected by multiple ascertainment.
RESULTS: A total of 159 cases were collected. The status (alive or dead) was 
determined for 146, of whom 96 are alive, 37 had died, and 13 were detected on 
prenatal diagnostic tests. A minimum birth incidence of 1 in 95 896 was 
calculated. The crude infant mortality rate was 17% (23/132) and in the first 
two years of life the mortality rate was 21% (28/132). Cases with large de novo 
deletions (proximal to and including p15.2) were more likely to have died than 
those with smaller deletions (odds ratio=5.7, 95% CI=1.7-19.9) after adjusting 
for age. A comparison of survival curves for de novo deletions and 
translocations did not show a statistically significant difference (p=0.11). The 
median survival time for de novo deletions was 34+ years while for translocation 
cases it was 18+ years.
CONCLUSIONS: The mortality rate is lower than previously reported. There is a 
statistically significant relationship between deletion size and overall risk of 
death in de novo deletion cases. The difference in survival curves between de 
novo deletions and translocations is not statistically significant.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.38.10.674
PMCID: PMC1734744
PMID: 11584045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Pediatr Surg. 2001 Oct;36(10):1471-8. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2001.27025.

The cost-effectiveness of neonatal surgery and subsequent treatment for 
congenital anorectal malformations.

Poley MJ(1), Stolk EA, Langemeijer RA, Molenaar JC, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA) and Department of 
Pediatric Surgery, Sophia Children's Hospital, University Hospital Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The progress made in all fields of medicine, including 
neonatal surgery, has contributed to the rise in healthcare costs. Although 
neonatal surgery may provide survival gains, these could be at the expense of 
worse quality of life caused by impairment after surgery. For example, 
congenital anorectal malformations (CAM) are complex anomalies, and the surgical 
techniques available have their limitations in achieving continence. It 
therefore seems justifiable to consider what the effects of treatment are in 
relation to the costs. Evidence of the cost-effectiveness of neonatal surgery, 
however, is lacking.
METHODS: The authors analyzed both direct and indirect, medical and nonmedical 
costs in patients who had undergone treatment for CAM. Quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were measured using the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire. Descriptive 
quality-of-life data were collected using a disease-specific questionnaire and a 
medical consumption questionnaire.
RESULTS: Mean costs of treatment are calculated at Euro 31,593. Treated CAM 
patients suffer stool difficulties and their medical consumption is relatively 
high. The EQ-5D, however, shows that the quality of life of CAM patients is only 
slightly lower than that of the general population (0.88 v 0.93). Treatment 
results in a gain of 12.7 QALYs. Costs per QALY of treatment for CAM amount to 
Euro 2,482.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment for CAM has a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio compared 
with other evaluated healthcare programs. Bearing in mind the increasing 
political interest in evidence-based and cost-effective medicine, the results 
are encouraging.

Copyright 2001 by W.B. Saunders Company.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2001.27025
PMID: 11584391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Swiss Med Wkly. 2001 Jun 2;131(21-22):303-10. doi: 10.4414/smw.2001.09716.

Economic and clinical impact of alternative disease management strategies for 
secondary prevention in type 2 diabetes in the Swiss setting.

Gozzoli V(1), Palmer AJ, Brandt A, Spinas GA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics (IMIB), Riehen, 
Switzerland. gozzoli@econophone.ch

PRINCIPLES: Different intervention strategies for the optimisation of disease 
management of diabetes exist and have been shown to increase the proportion of 
patients receiving screening and examinations and to improve risk factors such 
as HbA1c, lipids, and blood pressure. Thus, in the long-term, a decrease in 
diabetic complications and the associated costs could be expected. To address 
this question, the current analysis used a published diabetes simulation model 
to analyse the long-term clinical and economic implications of implementing 
various interventions in the Swiss setting.
METHODS: Based on data from the literature, the short-term effects on clinical 
variables of multifactorial interventions, including screening for nephropathy 
and retinopathy, educational programmes and control of cardiovascular risk 
profile were assessed, and a cost-effectiveness analysis in comparison to 
standard care was performed. Life expectancy (LE) and total lifetime costs (TC) 
from the perspective of the health insurance payer were calculated using a 
long-term Markov simulation model.
RESULTS: The multifactorial intervention led to an improvement in undiscounted 
LE of 0.56 years (LE = 10.73 and 11.29 years for standard care and 
multifactorial intervention respectively), and a reduction in 3%-discounted TC 
of CHF 7313 (10.7%) per patient compared to current standard practice. 
Extrapolation to the whole Swiss type 2 diabetes population (285,000) showed 
yearly cost savings of CHF 194 million from the multifactorial intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of multifactorial interventions, including 
improved control of cardiovascular risk factors, combined with early diagnosis 
and treatment of diabetic complications, could be both cost- and life-saving in 
the Swiss setting.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2001.09716
PMID: 11584692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Aug;34(4):269-76. doi: 10.1007/s003910170050.

[Therapy of acute myeloid leukemia in the elderly patient].

[Article in German]

Wedding U(1), HÃ¶ffken K.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Innere Medizin II HÃ¤matologie, Onkologie, Endokrinologie, 
Stoffwechselerkrankungen Friedrich-Schiller-UniversitÃ¤t Erlanger Allee 101 07747 
Jena, Germany. ulrich.wedding@med.uni-jena.de

Incidence and mortality rates of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) increase 
exponentially with advancing age. AML diagnosed in elderly patients differs from 
that diagnosed in younger patients. But not only disease-specific differences 
are important. Treating elderly patients with AML age-associated differences in 
the patients general presentation, such as physiological changes in organ 
function, decreased ability to react to stress, dependence in activities of 
daily living, existence of other morbidities (co-morbidity), the need to take 
drugs for those diseases and the reduced life expectancy can force alterations 
in the disease management. Clinical trials for the treatment of AML have been 
excluding elderly patients for years. Even trials accepting elderly patients 
with AML did select the group of otherwise healthy elderly patients for 
participation in the trial. Thus the data for AML management in elderly patients 
do not reflect the whole group of elderly patients with AML. If the patient is 
treated with curative intention, therapy of choice is the so-called 3 + 7 
protocol for induction of complete remission, followed by a consolidation 
therapy and in some cases by maintenance therapy. In some situations, especially 
in very old patients, a palliative intention to treatment is favored. There are 
no generally accepted criteria to measure treatment benefit in this setting nor 
established chemotherapy protocols for this situation. Further trials for 
elderly patients with AML have to offer treatment options for the whole group of 
patients and have to determine what treatment approach is the best for which 
individual patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910170050
PMID: 11584711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2000 Jul;55(4):S222-33. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/55.4.s222.

Socioeconomic gradient in old age mortality in Wuhan, China.

Liang J(1), McCarthy JF, Jain A, Krause N, Bennett JM, Gu S.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Institute of Gerontology, The University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. jliang@umich.edu

OBJECTIVES: The vast majority of studies on socioeconomic status (SES) and old 
age mortality are based on data derived from developed nations. This research 
examined the SES differentials in old age mortality in China, a developing 
nation.
METHODS: Hazard rate models in conjunction with ordinary least squares and 
logistic regression analyses were used to ascertain the gross, direct, indirect, 
and interaction effects of SES on mortality during a 3-year period in a 
probability sample of 2,943 persons aged 60 years or older in Wuhan, China.
RESULTS: Education, household economic well being, and urban-rural residence 
showed statistically significant gross effects on old age mortality. Education 
influenced mortality directly and indirectly. Household economic well being and 
urbanicity exerted indirect effects on mortality through mediating variables 
such as stress, social relations, and baseline health status. The mechanism 
through which education affected mortality differed between men and women, but 
SES differentials in mortality did not interact with age.
DISCUSSION: SES differentials in old age mortality may be extended to a 
developing nation such as China. The observed gender by SES interaction effect 
on old age mortality has important implications for intervention. In particular. 
improving education among women in underdeveloped areas must remain a high 
priority, for policy makers in efforts to extend the life expectancy of women.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/55.4.s222
PMID: 11584885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 May-Jun;20(3):219-32. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.20.3.219.

Comparing health system performance in OECD countries. Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development.

Anderson G(1), Hussey PS.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, Department of Health 
Policy and Management, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

We present data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
and the World Health Organization on the performance of the health care systems 
in twenty-nine industrialized countries in 1998. We also compare the performance 
of the United States with the other industrialized countries for selected 
indicators in 1960, 1980, and 1998. On most indicators the U.S. relative 
performance declined since 1960; on none did it improve.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.20.3.219
PMID: 11585171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Spinal Cord Med. 2001 Fall;24(3):212-3.

Spinal cord injury: facts and figures at a glance.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11585237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Oct;12(10):1235-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61688-1.

Re: Appraising decision and cost-effective analyses.

Keen JD, Dunne PM, Keen RR, Langer BG.

Comment on
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jan;12(1):11-8.
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jul;12(7):783-7.
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jul;12(7):813-21.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61688-1
PMID: 11585894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Ugeskr Laeger. 2001 Jan 1;163(1):32-5.

[Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors after AMI].

[Article in Danish]

Torp-Pedersen CT(1), KÃ¸ber L; Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Kardiologisk afdeling P, Amtssygehuset i Gentofte. ctp@heart.dk

The purpose of this study was to calculate the improvement in life expectancy by 
treating patients with left ventricular dysfunction after a myocardial 
infarction with an ACE inhibitor. Life expectancy was estimated as median 
lifetime and follow up in the TRACE study was prolonged until median lifetime 
could be calculated in both treatment groups. Median lifetime was reached in the 
placebo group after 4.6 years. In the trandolapril group median lifetime was 
increased by 15.3 months or 27% (7-51%). We conclude that the increase in 
lifetime by treatment of patients with left ventricular dysfunction after a 
myocardial infarction is substantial.

PMID: 11586670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Ugeskr Laeger. 2001 Jan 1;163(1):44-5.

[Biological effects and mortality in connection with low dosage ionizing 
radiation].

[Article in Danish]

Henriksen JH(1).

Author information:
(1)H:S Hvidovre Hospital, klinisk fysiologisk/nuklearmedicinsk afdeling.

PMID: 11586674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Med Health. 2001 Sep 24;55(34):7-8.

Perspectives. Baby boom retirees: demography may be destiny, after all.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11586793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Newsweek. 2001 Fall-Winter;138(11A):12-3, 16-21.

I. The body, the brain, hormones. The biology of aging.

Cowley G.

PMID: 11586843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Newsweek. 2001 Fall-Winter;138(11A):4-9.

Living longer. Health for life.

Kantrowitz B.

PMID: 11586848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Bull Entomol Res. 2001 Aug;91(4):307-15. doi: 10.1079/ber2001111.

Population dynamics of the white wax scale, Ceroplastes destructor (Hemiptera: 
Coccidae), on citrus in South Africa, with implications for biological control.

Wakgari WM(1), Giliomee JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology and Nematology, University of Stellenbosch, Private 
Bag X1, Matieland, 7602, South Africa. wakgari@maties.sun.ac.za

The population dynamics of the white wax scale, Ceroplastes destructor Newstead, 
was studied intensively in four easy-peel citrus orchards in the Western Cape 
Province of South Africa over three consecutive years (1997-1999). Key factor 
analysis was used to determine and quantify the contribution of individual 
mortality factors to the total generation mortality. Key stage mortality, 
determined from a cohort life table, was in the third instar and pre-ovipositing 
female stages. Mortality of C. destructor was caused primarily by parasitoids, 
predators and miscellaneous factors. Parasitoids and miscellaneous factors acted 
as density-dependent regulatory agents during the pre-ovipositional and first 
instar stages respectively. This has implications for biological control of C. 
destructor. Some of the mortality factors acted either randomly with no 
reference to the population densities or in an inverse density-dependent manner 
during the egg-crawler, second or third instar stages.

DOI: 10.1079/ber2001111
PMID: 11587628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Am J Surg. 2001 Sep;182(3):237-42. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00705-x.

Operative and long term results after surgery for chronic radiation enteritis.

Regimbeau JM(1), Panis Y, Gouzi JL, Fagniez PL; French University Association 
for Surgical Research.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Lariboisiere Hospital, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Am J Surg 2001 Dec;182(6):752.

BACKGROUND: About one third of patients with chronic radiation enteritis will 
need to be operated on during follow-up. Morbidity and life expectancy after 
resection and conservative surgical management for chronic radiation enteritis 
have not been well documented.
METHODS: From 1984 to 1994, 109 patients were operated on with a mean follow-up 
of 40 months (range 1 to 293). Postoperative mortality, early and late 
morbidity, long-term survival were studied in patients after resection (n = 65) 
and after conservative surgical management (n = 42), and in patients after 
planned or emergency procedure. Existence of possible risk factors for 
reoperation after a first surgical procedure was analyzed.
RESULTS: Five (5%) patients died in the postoperative course. Operative 
mortality was significantly higher when the procedure was performed as an 
emergency (P <0.05). Although not statistically significant, mortality was 
higher in the resection group (5% versus 0%). Thirty-three (30%) patients 
experienced postoperative complications including anastomotic leak in 11. 
Morbidity was not statistically related to the nature of the treatment (ie, 
conservative versus resection) or to the indication (emergency versus elective). 
During follow-up, reoperation was required in 40% of the patients, because of 
recurrence of digestive symptoms suggestive of chronic radiation enteritis; the 
reoperation rate was higher in the patients of the conservative group (50% 
versus 34%). Overall survival, after a mean follow-up of 40 months in patients 
without cancer recurrence was 85% at 1 year and 69% at 5 years after surgery, 
respectively. Overall survival was influenced by the nature of the treatment 
with 51% and 71% 5-year survival after conservative and resection treatment, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite high initial mortality and morbidity rates, life expectancy 
in patients with chronic radiation enteritis without recurrence of their 
previous neoplastic disease was good. Resection seems to provide a smaller 
reoperation rate and a better 5-year survival, but a higher postoperative 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00705-x
PMID: 11587684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2001;5 Suppl A:115-20. doi: 10.1053/ejpn.2000.0446.

Caenorhabditis elegans homologues of the CLN3 gene, mutated in juvenile neuronal 
ceroid lipofuscinosis.

De Voer G(1), Jansen G, van Ommen GJ, Peters DJ, Taschner PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human and Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are the most common hereditary 
neurodegenerative disorders of childhood. The first symptom of this 
heterogeneous group of devastating lysosomal storage diseases is progressive 
visual failure. The different forms of NCL can be distinguished by age of onset, 
clinical features and the characteristics of the accumulated materials. The 
juvenile form, Batten-Spielmeyer-Vogt disease which is caused by mutations in 
the CLN3 gene, is the most frequent form of the disease in which loss of vision 
becomes apparent around the age of 5-8 years. The gene was found to encode a 
novel integral membrane protein localizing to the lysosomes, confirming that the 
primary defect in NCL is in lysosomal function. The CLN3 protein function is 
still unknown, and is examined in several model organisms. We are studying the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, and have identified three CLN3 homologues. In 
order to investigate the role of the CLN3 protein in C. elegans, Cecln-3 
deletion mutants are being isolated from an ethyl methanesulphonate 
(EMS)-induced deletion mutant library. Examination of these mutants may provide 
us with information that will help in dissecting the processes in which the CLN3 
protein is involved. In this library two mutated C. elegans Cln-3 loci have been 
identified, of which one mutant, NL748, was isolated. This mutant contains a 
deletion of the whole gene. The deletion mutant was characterized with regard to 
life expectancy, and showed no significant differences when compared with 
wild-type.

DOI: 10.1053/ejpn.2000.0446
PMID: 11588981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Fam Plann Perspect. 2001 Sep-Oct;33(5):234, 241.

The IUD and recovery of fertility.

Sivin I, Webb A, Stedman Y.

PMID: 11589546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Acta Neurol Scand. 2001 Oct;104(4):232-5. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-0404.2001.00361.x.

Mortality from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Finland, 1986-1995.

Maasilta P(1), Jokelainen M, LÃ¶ytÃ¶nen M, Sabel CE, Gatrell AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. paula.maasilta@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: To study the possible changes, between 1986 and 1995, in the 
mortality due to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) among Finnish patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 1000 deaths from ALS were extracted from the 
Finnish Death Certificate Register for the study years. General population data 
were obtained from the Statistical Yearbooks of Finland.
RESULTS: From a death rate of 1.54/100,000 in 1986 an increase to 2.27/100,000 
in 1995 was observed. Since 1963 the number of ALS deaths has tripled. The 
documented increased life-expectancy in Finland correlates with the ALS death 
rate, at least partly explaining the increase. Contrary to other countries, on 
the whole equal numbers of men and women died of ALS. Women tended to be older 
than men when they died of ALS.
CONCLUSION: In accordance with other countries ALS mortality in Finland is 
steadily increasing.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0404.2001.00361.x
PMID: 11589652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. HIV Clin Trials. 2000 Jul-Aug;1(1):27-35. doi: 10.1310/P52N-KXJH-1945-UX7X.

The cost-effectiveness of triple nucleoside analogue therapy antiretroviral 
regimens in the treatment of HIV in the United Kingdom.

Trueman P(1), Youle M, Sabin CA, Miners AH, Beck EJ.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Outcomes, GlaxoWellcome R&D, Greenford, Middlesex, UK.

PURPOSE: Treatment of HIV infection has improved markedly in recent years due to 
the use of combination antiretroviral therapies. However, the cost of these 
treatments remains a concern for those who fund health services. This article 
reports the results of an economic evaluation to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of triple combination nucleoside analogue (NA) therapy 
compared with dual NA therapy.
METHOD: A Markov model was developed to assess the incremental cost 
effectiveness of triple therapy treatment versus dual therapy treatment. 
Clinical data was derived from published clinical trials and large observational 
cohorts whilst cost data was derived from a prospective database that monitors 
health care resource use in the UK HIV population.
RESULTS: The model predicted that triple NA combination treatment extended life 
expectancy by an additional 1.2 years compared with dual therapy NA treatment 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 8,419 pounds per life-year 
saved. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was estimated 
to be between 10,072-16,168 pounds per QALY gained depending on the assumptions.
CONCLUSION: The results show triple nucleoside analogue therapy to be a cost 
effective means of delaying HIV progression and extending life expectancy. 
However, further research into this issue is warranted.

DOI: 10.1310/P52N-KXJH-1945-UX7X
PMID: 11590487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Stat Med. 2001 Oct 30;20(20):3083-96. doi: 10.1002/sim.913.

Accuracy of point predictions in survival analysis.

Henderson R(1), Jones M, Stare J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Statistics Unit, Mathematics and Statistics, Lancaster University, 
LA4 4YF, U.K. robin.henderson@lancaster.ac.uk

Survival time prediction is important in many applications, particularly for 
patients diagnosed with terminal diseases. A measure of prediction error taken 
from the medical literature is advocated as a practicable method of quantifying 
reliability of point predictions. Optimum predictions are derived for familiar 
survival models and the accuracy of these predictions is investigated. We argue 
that poor predictive capability is inherent to standard survival models with 
realistic parameter values. A lung cancer example is used to illustrate 
difficulties in prediction in practice.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.913
PMID: 11590634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Urol Clin North Am. 2001 Aug;28(3):499-507. doi:
10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70158-0.

Radical retropubic prostatectomy. Preoperative management.

Rosenblum N(1), Lepor H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New 
York, USA.

The morbidity of radical prostatectomy is minimized by identifying men who are 
at significant cardiovascular risk and excluding them from the procedure. 
Preoperative management designed to minimize surgical and medical complications 
and exposure to allogenic blood products increases the benefit-to-risk ratio of 
radical prostatectomy over other treatment options for localized prostate 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70158-0
PMID: 11590809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. AIDS Policy Law. 2001 Sep 28;16(18):11.

GBV-C and HIV.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11591001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2001 Sep 21;49(8):1-113.

Deaths: final data for 1999.

Hoyert DL, Arias E, Smith BL, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 1999 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics. Trends and patterns in 
general mortality, life expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also 
described. A previous report presented preliminary mortality data for 1999.
METHODS: In 1999 a total of 2,391,399 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents tabulations of information reported on the death 
certificates completed by funeral directors, attending physicians, medical 
examiners, and coroners. Original records are filed in the State registration 
offices. Statistical information is compiled into a national data base through 
the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center for Health 
Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For the first 
time in a final mortality data report, age-adjusted death rates are based upon 
the year 2000 population and causes of death are processed in accordance with 
the Tenth Revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10).
RESULTS: The 1999 age-adjusted death rate for the United States was 881.9 deaths 
per 100,000 standard population, a 0.7 percent increase from the 1998 rate, and 
life expectancy at birth remained the same at 76.7 years. For all causes of 
death, age-specific death rates rose for those 45-54 years, 75-84 years, and 85 
years and over and declined for a number of age groups including those 5-14 
years, 55-64 years, and 65-74 years. Aortic aneurysm and dissection made its 
debut in the list of leading causes of death and atherosclerosis exited from the 
list. Heart disease and cancer continued to be the leading and second leading 
causes of death. The age-adjusted death rate for firearm injuries decreased for 
the sixth consecutive year, declining 6.2 percent between 1998 and 1999. The 
infant mortality rate, 7.1 infant deaths per 1,000 live births, was not 
statistically different from the rate in 1998.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality continued long-term trends. Life expectancy in 
1999 was unchanged from 1998 despite a slight increase in the age-adjusted death 
rate from the record low achieved in 1998. Although statistically unchanged from 
1998, the trend in infant mortality has been of a steady but slowing decline. 
Some mortality measures for women and persons 85 years and over worsened between 
1998 and 1999.

PMID: 11591077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Hum Fertil (Camb). 2001;4(1):43-8. doi: 10.1080/1464727012000199251.

The effects of female age on fecundity and pregnancy outcome.

Nugent D(1), Balen AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproduction, Growth and Development, The General Infirmary at 
Leeds, Belmont Grove, Leeds LS2 9NS, UK.

In industrialized countries worldwide, women are delaying childbearing for a 
variety of reasons, including pursuit of career, greater financial independence, 
improved and more accessible contraception and longer life expectancy. In terms 
of fertility and maternity, those aged > or = 35 years are considered to be of 
advanced maternal age and there are usually marked reductions in both the 
fecundity rate for spontaneous conceptions and the success rates with assisted 
conception. These decreases are thought to be due mainly to oocyte ageing, and 
the established success of oocyte donation from younger individuals to older 
recipients supports this contention. For those who achieve a pregnancy at an 
advanced maternal age there is a greater likelihood of aneuploidy (assuming 
conception with the woman's own oocytes), hypertensive and other medical 
disorders, birth by Caesarean section and maternal mortality. However, most of 
the complications associated with advanced maternal age are caused by 
age-related confounding variables, and older premenopausal women in good health 
should not require special attention. The data on perinatal mortality rates are 
encouraging and in the absence of congenital abnormalities perinatal mortality 
is probably not much increased, if at all, in older mothers. Pregnancy is now 
possible for postmenopausal women with the application of oocyte donation, but 
these individuals have a significantly higher likelihood of cardiovascular 
ageing and should be considered at increased risk of vascular complications 
during pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1080/1464727012000199251
PMID: 11591256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Curr Biol. 2001 Oct 2;11(19):1517-23. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(01)00453-5.

The OLD-1 positive regulator of longevity and stress resistance is under DAF-16 
regulation in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Murakami S(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309, 
USA. murakams@umich.edu

Aging and limited life span are fundamental biological phenomena observed in a 
