variety of species [1]. Approximately 55 genes have been identified that can 
extend longevity when altered in Caenorhabditis elegans [2-5]. These genes 
include an insulin-like receptor (daf-2) and a phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase 
(age-1) regulating a forkhead transcription factor (daf-16) [6, 7], as well as 
genes mediating metabolic throughput [8], sensory perception [9], and 
reproduction [10]. Moreover, these mutant alleles both extend life span and 
increase resistance to ultraviolet (UV) radiation [11], heat [12], and oxidative 
stress [13-15], though the stress resistance of clk-1 is controversial. With the 
exception of old-1 and perhaps some other genes [16-19], all of the 
life-extension alleles are hypomorphic or nullomorphic. Here, we show that the 
OLD-1 transmembrane tyrosine kinase (formerly TKR-1; [16, 20]) is expressed in a 
variety of tissues, is stress inducible, and is a positive regulator of 
longevity and stress resistance. The transcription of old-1 is upregulated in 
long-lived age-1 and daf-2 mutants and is upregulated in response to heat, UV 
light, and starvation. Both RT-PCR and analysis of an OLD-1::GFP tag suggest 
that old-1 expression is dependent on daf-16. Importantly, old-1 is required for 
the life extension of age-1 and daf-2 mutants. This study reveals a new system 
for specifying longevity and stress resistance and suggests possible mechanisms 
for mediating life extension by dietary restriction and hormesis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(01)00453-5
PMID: 11591319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Blood. 2001 Oct 1;98(7):2282-3. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.7.2282.

The natural history of refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.

Djulbegovic B, Cohen Y.

Comment on
    Blood. 2001 May 1;97(9):2549-54.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.7.2282
PMID: 11592263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Public Health. 2001 Sep;115(5):328-37. doi: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900785.

Life expectancies for individuals with psychiatric diagnoses.

Hannerz H(1), Borg√• P, Borritz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Surveillance, National Institute of 
Occupational Health, Copenhagen, Denmark.

The aim of the study was to estimate life expectancies in different diagnostic 
groups for individuals treated as inpatients at Swedish psychiatric clinics. All 
individuals, older than 18 y and alive on the first of January 1983, who had 
been registered in the National Hospital Discharge Registry by a psychiatric 
clinic in 1978-82, were monitored for mortality during 1983 by using the 
National Cause of Death Registry. The study group consisted of 91 385 men and 77 
217 women. The patients were divided into nine diagnostic groups according to 
the principal diagnosis registered at the latest discharge. Actuarial 
mathematics was used to construct life expectancy tables, which present the 
number of years expected to live, by gender and diagnostic group. Expectancies 
of life were significantly shortened for both genders and in all nine diagnostic 
groups (with one exception). Mental disorders in general are life shortening. 
This fact should be recognised in community health when setting health 
priorities. It should also be addressed in curricula as well as in treatment and 
preventive programmes.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900785
PMID: 11593442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Chin Med J (Engl). 1999 Jan;112(1):14-7.

Changing pattern of heart diseases in Shanghai from the 1950s to 1980s.

Chen H(1), Fan W, Jin X, Wang Q, Pan X, Chen X, Wang M, Dai R, Cao Y, Li B.

Author information:
(1)Zhong Shan Hospital, Shanghai Medical University and Shanghai Institute of 
Cardiovascular Diseases, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the pattern of dynamic change in types of heart diseases 
in the past 4 decades for providing a reference to treatment and prevention of 
heart diseases in China.
METHODS: All adult cardiac patients admitted to the Zhong Shan Hospital and Hua 
Shan Hospital from 1948 to 1989 were analyzed. The constituent ratio of 
different heart diseases in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s was compared.
RESULTS: The percentage of heart diseases among medical inpatients increased in 
each of the recent 4 decades, from 9.89%, 15.69%, 20.90% to 23.54% respectively. 
The constituent ratio of different heart diseases changed, coronary heart 
disease constituted the highest proportion, next came rheumatic heart disease, 
and congenital heart disease was in third place. Congenital heart disease, 
myocarditis, cardiac dysrhythmia without organic heart disease, cardiomyopathy 
and endocarditis increased, rheumatic heart disease, pulmonary heart disease and 
hypertensive heart disease apparently decreased; syphilitic heart disease could 
rarely be encountered.
CONCLUSION: China is now facing a low overall death rate, a long life expectancy 
and an aging population. The incidence of heart diseases increased gradually and 
patterns of heart diseases kept changing. The overall trend is that heart 
diseases which were not related to infection are increasing while heart diseases 
related to bacterial infection are decreasing.

PMID: 11593631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Int J Clin Pract. 2001 Sep;55(7):471-5.

Primary brain tumours: a review of research and management.

Turini M(1), Redaelli A.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacia & Upjohn, Via Robert Koch 1/2, 20152 Milan, Italy.

The brain is an incredibly complex organ that contains some 10 billion working 
cells. Brain tumours can arise from the brain itself, the meninges, the nerves 
at the base of the brain, or even from outside the brain. The frequency of brain 
tumours directly reflects the relative proportion of each cell type present at 
the site of the initial tumour. Symptoms produced by a brain tumour often mimic 
the symptoms of other diseases and vice versa. Because symptoms can develop 
gradually, and can be subtle, there may well be a long delay between symptom 
onset and diagnosis. Treatment of brain tumour depends on the type and stage of 
the disease, and the patient's age and overall state of health. Treatment 
options fall into three categories: surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. 
Biological therapy is also being studied in clinical trials. Primary brain 
tumours occur in all age groups, but are significantly more frequent in children 
and adolescents under 15 years old and the elderly. For every person diagnosed 
with a brain tumour (over 100,000 people annually in the US), an average of 22 
years of life expectancy is lost. The estimated annual cost, direct and 
indirect, of the disease in the US is $104 billion.

PMID: 11594258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Lancet. 2001 Sep 29;358(9287):1077-81. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(01)06185-2.

Economics of surgery.

Brazier JE(1), Johnson AG.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK. jbrazier@sheff.ac.uk

The time has come to subject surgery to the same rigours of economic assessment 
that other health-care sectors are already receiving--namely, the comparative 
assessment of costs and benefits. The surgical management of gallstones provides 
a good example of the role of economics in surgery. Gallstone disease is common 
and patients are usually referred to a surgeon, but the threshold for 
intervention is not agreed and varies widely, with considerable implications for 
resources. Gallstone removal has been subject to much innovation over the past 
10 years, yet economic assessment of laparoscopic and "mini" cholecystectomy and 
of gallstone lithotripsy is rare, despite the fact that operation rates have 
increased by up to 50% in some countries. For surgery to compete with other 
interventions, economic assessment of new surgical techniques will be 
increasingly important. This assessment should be based on well-conducted 
clinical trials in which interventions are provided in a routine service 
setting, and in which benefits are assessed among other things on the basis of 
the patient's perceived quality of life. Economic assessment often needs data 
beyond those collected in a clinical trial, however pragmatic the trial design, 
so modelling will often be required, incorporating a range of sources of 
evidence. Finally, evidence alone will not be enough to promote cost-effective 
practices. The take-up of surgical techniques will always be affected by the way 
hospitals and surgeons are remunerated. Affecting practice requires a realistic 
system of reimbursement that reflects evidence on cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(01)06185-2
PMID: 11594315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Biomed Environ Sci. 2001 Jun;14(1-2):66-74.

Perspectives on nutrition needs for the new millennium for South Asian regions.

Krishnaswamy K(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Nutrition, Indian Council of Medical Research, 
Hyderabad, AP, India.

South Asia is the most populated region of the world with several nutritional 
challenges. Though per capita food energy supply, child survival and life 
expectancy have improved, and even today large segments of the population are 
below the poverty line with high infant and maternal mortality rates. It is 
important to recognize the crucial role of nutrition throughout the life 
cycle-from conception to old age. It is very necessary now to move from food 
security to nutrition security and improve the quality of foods both in macro- 
and micronutrients in order to break the transgenerational effects of 
malnutrition. The key solutions to the problems should address the issue of 
social development, population stabilization, environmental degradation and 
inadequate health and nutritional services. Strategies for empowering women and 
actuating community participation as sustainable programmes for human 
development, measures to reduce underweight and stunting in children and 
prevention of micronutrient malnutrition across the population are required. 
Enhancing food and nutrition security through innovative diversified agriculture 
and dietary practices, prevention and control of infection, promotion of food 
safety and fortification of staples with appropriate attention on emerging 
chronic disorders are essential. Population control measures to stabilize the 
fertility rates, biotechnological approaches for genetically modified foods, 
nutrition surveillance based on assessment, analysis and action to address the 
logistic, technical and compliance issues with emphasis on promotion of breast 
feeding and complementary foods with adequate attention on the reproductive 
needs of adolescent girls, pregnant mothers and lactating women would eliminate 
low birth weight, stunting, and chronic energy deficiency in vulnerable groups. 
Focused studies on bioavailability of micronutrients and its enhancement, 
innovative horticulture interventions, fortifications, social marketing 
strategies would promote the intake of micronutrient and phytonutrient rich 
foods. In-depth epidemiological research, an insight into foetal origins of 
adult disease and nutrition-genes interaction and life style alterations will 
avert the emerging epidemic of chronic diet related disorders. An investment in 
preventing foetal malnutrition improves nutrition of women in reproductive age, 
infant and child nutrition and prevents the onset of chronic disease in adult 
life. Human resource development, IEC measures, technology transfer, operational 
and logistic research, building of databases, integrated, intersectoral, 
multidisciplinary plans and sound management information system and surveillance 
with net working and experience sharing in the region will help to overcome the 
common challenges and lay the foundation for a better scenario in these regions 
in the near future.

PMID: 11594482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Biomed Environ Sci. 2001 Jun;14(1-2):82-6.

Japanese perspectives on nutrition for new millenium.

Kimura S(1).

Author information:
(1)Showa Women' s University, ILSI, Tokyo, Japan. kimura-s@swu.ac.jp

PMID: 11594484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(8):875-86. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200119080-00009.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of dopamine agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's 
disease in Japan.

Shimbo T(1), Hira K, Takemura M, Fukui T.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan. shimbot@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac-jp

BACKGROUND: Dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine or pergolide are often used 
in Japan to treat Parkinson's disease. Dopamine agonists are relatively 
expensive drugs; economic evaluations are required.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of dopamine agonists for the 
treatment of Parkinson's disease in Japan.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We used a Markov model to simulate the course of Parkinson's 
disease and to compare the cost effectiveness of dopamine agonists added to 
levodopa with that of levodopa alone in Japan. The model assumed that 
60-year-old men with Parkinson's disease in Hoehn-Yahr (HY) stages 2 to 5 using 
levodopa were administered dopamine agonists or continued on levodopa alone. The 
incremental cost effectiveness of dopamine agonists used for 10 years was then 
estimated.
STUDY PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: In the patients in HY stage 2, the 
incremental cost effectiveness of dopamine agonists was 18,610,000 to 19,320,000 
yen per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) [$US 172,300 to $US 178,900/QALY; 1998 
values] . In patients in HY stage 3 or higher, the use of dopamine agonists was 
dominant over levodopa alone mainly due to reduced cost for care. In sensitivity 
analyses, costs and effectiveness of dopamine agonists significantly influenced 
the results. The use of a generic formulation of bromocriptine was dominant over 
levodopa alone even in the patients with HY stage 2 disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Dopamine agonists appear to be cost effective in advanced 
Parkinson's disease, although their use is sensitive to the costs and 
effectiveness of dopamine agonists. If factors discouraging the prescription of 
generic drugs in Japan were removed, the treatment of Parkinson's disease would 
become more cost effective.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119080-00009
PMID: 11596839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. World J Surg. 2001 Oct;25(10):1289-95. doi: 10.1007/s00268-001-0112-6.

Endoscopic stenting for malignant biliary obstruction.

Lai EC(1), Lo CM, Liu CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong Medical Center, Queen Mary 
Hospital, Hong Kong SAR, China. ecslai@hkucc.hku.hk

Use of endoscopic stents to manage patients with malignant obstructive jaundice 
is a well accepted measure. Interpretation of the results of endoscopic stenting 
must be made with reference to the level of the bile duct obstruction. Results 
were generally unsatisfactory for hilar lesions, especially when the 
intrahepatic ducts were segregated into multiple isolated systems. After 
deployment, stent dysfunction due to clogging by biliary sludge is apparently an 
inevitable process for the conventional plastic stent. Considerable efforts had 
been made to prolong the stent patency by changing its physical configuration, 
coating the inner lumen, and the choice of material but with little success. The 
development of a self-expandable metal stent is a major advance, but the 
benefits derived from a larger stent lumen are compromised by the initial 
expense and the tumor ingrowth through the wires for all models available 
commercially. Current data failed to substantiate the value of routine 
preoperative biliary decompression, as there is no reduction in the morbidity 
and mortality rates after surgery. Although biased patient selection may have 
resulted in the negative observations made, repeated clinical trials should 
probably focus on patients with distal bile duct tumors who are preparing for a 
major pancreatic resection. As a definitive palliative measure, endoscopic 
stenting is a more cost-effective option than surgery for patients with limited 
life expectancy based on data regarding plastic stents. The recommendations are 
evolving however, as there is progressive refinement of laparoscopic surgery 
techniques and designs of endoscopic stents.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-001-0112-6
PMID: 11596892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Radiographics. 2001 Oct;21 Spec No:S147-60. doi: 
10.1148/radiographics.21.suppl_1.g01oc01s147.

CT of the duodenum: an overlooked segment gets its due.

Jayaraman MV(1), Mayo-Smith WW, Movson JS, Dupuy DE, Wallach MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Brown University School of Medicine, Rhode 
Island Hospital, 593 Eddy St, Providence, RI 02903, USA.

Abdominal computed tomography (CT) is frequently performed to evaluate 
gastrointestinal pathologic conditions, and the majority of the gastrointestinal 
radiology literature has concentrated on the colon, stomach, and distal small 
bowel. In a description of CT findings of duodenal pathologic conditions, 
congenital, traumatic, inflammatory, and neoplastic diseases are presented. 
Congenital duodenal anomalies such as duplications and diverticula are usually 
asymptomatic, while annular pancreas and malrotation may manifest in the 1st 
decade of life. CT plays a vital role in the diagnosis of traumatic duodenal 
injury. Primary inflammatory processes of the duodenum such as ulcers and 
secondary involvement from pancreatitis can reliably be diagnosed at CT. 
Infectious diseases of the duodenum are difficult to diagnose, as the findings 
are not specific. While small bowel malignancies are relatively rare, lipoma, 
adenoma, and adenocarcinoma, as well as local extension from adjacent 
malignancies, can be diagnosed at CT. Careful CT technique and attention to the 
duodenum can result in reliable prospective diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1148/radiographics.21.suppl_1.g01oc01s147
PMID: 11598254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Addiction. 2001 Oct;96(10):1515-7.

Cost-effectiveness of buprenorphine maintenance versus methadone maintenance.

French MT.

Comment on
    Addiction. 2001 Sep;96(9):1267-78.

PMID: 11599513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. AIDS. 2001 Oct 19;15(15):2017-23. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200110190-00015.

The impact of HIV/AIDS on mortality and household mobility in rural Tanzania.

Urassa M(1), Boerma JT, Isingo R, Ngalula J, Ng'weshemi J, Mwaluko G, Zaba B.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Medical Research, Mwanza, Tanzania

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of the AIDS epidemic on mortality and household 
mobility before and after death.
DESIGN: Open community cohort study with a demographic surveillance system and 
two sero-epidemiological surveys.
METHODS: Ten rounds of demographic surveillance were completed during 1994-1998 
in the study area, which has a population of about 20 000 people in a rural ward 
in north-west Tanzania. Households with deaths were visited for a detailed 
interview, including a verbal autopsy. Data on HIV status were collected in two 
surveys of all residents aged 15-44 years.
RESULTS: Mortality rates among HIV-infected adults were 15 times higher than 
those among HIV-negative adults and HIV/AIDS was associated with nearly half of 
deaths at ages 15-44 years. Verbal autopsies without HIV test results 
considerably underestimated the proportion of deaths associated with HIV/AIDS. 
The mortality probability between 15 and 60 years was 49% for men and 46% for 
women and life expectancy was 43 years for men and 44 years for women. By their 
second birthday nearly one-quarter of the newborns of HIV-infected mothers had 
died, which was 2.5 times higher than among children of HIV-negative mothers. 
Mobility of household members before and after death was high. In 44% of 
households in which the head died all members moved out of the household.
CONCLUSIONS: In this rural population with HIV prevalence close to 7% among 
adults aged 15-44 years during the mid-1990s, HIV/AIDS is having substantial 
impact on adult mortality. A common response to death of a head of household in 
this community is household dissolution, which has implications for measurement 
of the demographic and socio-economic impact of AIDS.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200110190-00015
PMID: 11600831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2001 Sep;56(5-6):577-88. doi:
10.1007/s002530100700.

The potential of genetic engineering for improving brewing, wine-making and 
baking yeasts.

Dequin S(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR Sciences pour l'eonologie, Microbiologie et Technologie des 
Fermentations, INRA, Montpellier, France. dequin@ensam.inra.fr

The end of the twentieth century was marked by major advances in life 
technology, particularly in areas related to genetics and more recently 
genomics. Considerable progress was made in the development of genetically 
improved yeast strains for the wine, brewing and baking industries. In the last 
decade, recombinant DNA technology widened the possibilities for introducing new 
properties. The most remarkable advances, which are discussed in this 
Mini-Review, are improved process performance, off-flavor elimination, increased 
formation of by-products, improved hygienic properties or extension of substrate 
utilization. Although the introduction of this technology into traditional 
industries is currently limited by public perception, the number of potential 
applications of genetically modified industrial yeast is likely to increase in 
the coming years, as our knowledge derived from genomic analyses increases.

DOI: 10.1007/s002530100700
PMID: 11601604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Cells Tissues Organs. 2002;170(1):1-20. doi: 10.1159/000047916.

Developmental morphological and histological studies on structures of the human 
fetal shoulder joint.

Aboul-Mahasen LM(1), Sadek SA.

Author information:
(1)Anatomy Department, Faculty of Medicine for Girls, Al-Azhar University, 
Cairo, Egypt.

In the present work, morphological changes in the interior structures of the 
developing human shoulder joint were studied at different prenatal ages (9, 12, 
16, 23 and 40 weeks) and were compared with the same structures in the adult 
joint. It was found that the shoulder joint had gone through important 
developmental changes during the 12th week of the prenatal life and it is 
assumed that genetic factors operative during this stage of development were 
more important than mechanical factors. A subsequent development of the 
intracapsular glenohumeral ligaments was present at the 16th week. The glenoid 
labrum, the biceps tendon and the three glenohumeral ligaments formed a complete 
ring around the glenoid fossa which constituted a functional unit, which seemed 
to have a role in stabilizing the joint. In the present work, histological 
prenatal studies were done on sagittal and radial sections from the glenoid 
fossa and its associated structures and the results were compared with the same 
structures in adults. At a crown-rump length of 30 mm (9 weeks), intermingling 
of the collagen fibres of the superior labrum and the biceps tendon was observed 
and the superior labrum could be considered as an extension of the biceps 
tendon. While the superior and inferior parts of the labrum appeared fibrous, 
the posterior labrum appeared as a primitive cellular condensation. At the 12th 
week, it became a fibrocellular structure and changed to a fibrocartilaginous 
structure at the 16th week. But until full term, no definitive fibrocartilage 
was found due to its hypercellularity compared to the adult. It was found that 
at all ages, the capsule was formed of cellular and fibrous elements, its 
collagenous content was progressively increased with age and at full term, it 
became generally fibrous but was still different compared to adults. In all 
stages of development, the synovial tissue of different regions of the same 
joint exhibited marked variations in thickness, vascularity, cellular density 
and collagenous content. It lined the capsule, surrounded the biceps tendon and 
reflected on the labrum. Its cell density as well as their vascular and 
collagenous contents were progressively increased with age. At full term, the 
synovial tissue was thickest at its inferior reflection and forming large folds. 
The synovial tissue lining the capsule was thinner than the synovial tissue at 
its reflection from the labrum, many villi and processes arising from it and 
projecting into the joint cavity.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000047916
PMID: 11602798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Minerva Anestesiol. 2001 Jul-Aug;67(7-8):519-38.

[Prognostic systems in intensive care: TRISS, SAPS II, APACHE III].

[Article in Italian]

Barbieri S(1), Michieletto E, Feltracco P, Meroni M, Salvaterra F, Scalone A, 
Gasparetto M, Pengo G, Cacciani N, Lodi G, Giron GP.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacologia ed Anestesiologia, Egidio Meneghetti, Sede di 
Anestesiologia e Rianimazione, Universit√† degli Studi, Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: To validate the accuracy of SAPS II, APACHE III and TRISS for the 
prediction of mortality in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at polytrauma patients 
admission. The outcome of multiple trauma patients is often linked to the degree 
of physiologic dysfunction and to the extension of anatomic lesions, the age of 
the patient and the lesion mechanism.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 93 cases of multiple injured patients 
hospitalised at the ICU of the Padua hospital from October 1998 to October 1999; 
the term polytraumatized patient is referred to patients who have multiple 
lesions of which at least one potentially endangers, immediately or in a short 
term, their life. These cases were evaluated with the APACHE III, SAPS II, 
Revised Trauma Score and Injury Severity Score. The predictive power of each 
system was evaluated by using decision matrix analysis to compare observed and 
predicted outcome with a decision criterion of 0.50 and 0.40 for risk of 
hospital death.
RESULTS: All trauma score systems under study showed high accuracy rates, above 
all if they are used with a 40% positive test.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic scales used in this study showed a good correlation 
between expected and observed cases, particularly with TRISS and APACHE III 
systems. The APACHE III system seems to be the most reliable of the different 
methods analysed. These prognostic systems are seldom or occasionally used in 
the ICU, in Padua and in the whole of Italy, so Italian data are not suitable to 
be compared to international ones. Due to urgency, the importance of the 
evaluation scales is often underestimated, but even if they require time and 
attention, they surely can be useful in the evaluation of the treatment, and not 
only of a polytraumatized patient.

PMID: 11602872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Healthc Exec. 2001 Sep-Oct;16(5):suppl 1-3 following 76.

Key industry facts.

American College of Healthcare Executives.

PMID: 11603350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Cardiovasc Surg. 2001 Dec;9(6):526-30. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00088-6.

The utility of the VCS clip for creation of vascular access for hemodialysis: 
long-term results and intraoperative benefits.

Schild AF(1), Pruett CS, Newman MI, Raines J, Petersen F, Konkin T, Kim P, 
Dickson C, Kirsch WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, 
FL 33136, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of the VCS vascular 
clip approximating system for the creation of hemodialysis access fistulas. 173 
new vascular accesses were created, 92 prosthetic grafts and 81 autologous 
fistulas over a 40-month period. 50 sutured and 42 clipped fistulas comprised 
the prosthetic graft series, and 33 sutured and 48 clipped cases the autologous 
series. Risk factors associated with access patency were correlated and the 
primary patencies compared in the suture versus clipped group. A significant 
improvement in primary patency was noted for the clipped prosthetic group at all 
time points studied, with a positive trend also noted for clipped autologous 
fistulae.
CONCLUSIONS: The vascular clipping system (the VCS system) provides both 
long-term and immediate advantages for vascular access construction. Clips have 
been used successfully to treat seven consecutive patients with upper extremity 
arterial steal syndrome without the technical difficulties associated with 
traditional methods of repair.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00088-6
PMID: 11604333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2001 Sep-Oct;35(5):787-91.

[Connection of HindIII-polymorphism in the lipoprotein lipase gene with 
myocardial infarct and life span in elderly ischemic heart disease patients].

[Article in Russian]

Malygina NA(1), Melent'ev AS, Kostomarova IV, Melent'ev IA, Sa√©gitov RT, 
Smirnova IuB, Serova LD.

Author information:
(1)derjagin@ium.ips.ras.ru

Allele and genotype frequencies of the HindIII polymorphism of the lipoprotein 
lipase (LPL) gene were studied in patients with myocardial infarction (MI) and 
stable angina of effort (SAE), including long-lived people (over 90). The 
polymorphism proved to be associated with MI and with the life span, genotype 
H+/H+ being predisposing to MI and allele H- being protective. The allele and 
genotype frequencies of long-lived people differed significantly from the 
Hardy-Weinberg proportions and from those of SAE patients aged up to 90. An 
excess of heterozygotes in this group suggests a selective pressure which 
eliminates homozygotes. Possibly, heterozygotes H+/H- have an adaptive 
advantage, which provides for their longevity.

PMID: 11605530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Nov 6;98(23):12920-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.231472998. Epub 2001 Oct 23.

Methionine sulfoxide reductase (MsrA) is a regulator of antioxidant defense and 
lifespan in mammals.

Moskovitz J(1), Bar-Noy S, Williams WM, Requena J, Berlett BS, Stadtman ER.

Author information:
(1)National Institutes of Health, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, 
Laboratory of Biochemistry, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. moskovij@nhlbi.nih.gov

Oxidation of proteins by reactive oxygen species is associated with aging, 
oxidative stress, and many diseases. Although free and protein-bound methionine 
residues are particularly sensitive to oxidation to methionine sulfoxide 
derivatives, these oxidations are readily repaired by the action of methionine 
sulfoxide reductase (MsrA). To gain a better understanding of the biological 
roles of MsrA in metabolism, we have created a strain of mouse that lacks the 
MsrA gene. Compared with the wild type, this mutant: (i) exhibits enhanced 
sensitivity to oxidative stress (exposure to 100% oxygen); (ii) has a shorter 
lifespan under both normal and hyperoxic conditions; (iii) develops an atypical 
(tip-toe) walking pattern after 6 months of age; (iv) accumulates higher tissue 
levels of oxidized protein (carbonyl derivatives) under oxidative stress; and 
(v) is less able to up-regulate expression of thioredoxin reductase under 
oxidative stress. It thus seems that MsrA may play an important role in aging 
and neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.231472998
PMCID: PMC60800
PMID: 11606777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2001 Nov-Dec;33(5):367-74. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-200111000-00005.

Hepatitis C and human immunodeficiency virus coinfections.

Dodig M(1), Tavill AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio 
44109, USA.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) has become a major contributor to morbidity and 
mortality in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). It is estimated 
that 30% to 50% of patients with HIV are coinfected with HCV. Advances in 
antiretroviral therapy and improved life expectancy of HIV patients have 
resulted in an emergence of HCV-induced liver disease as a leading cause of 
significant morbidity and death in this population. Clinically, hepatitis C is a 
more severe disease in HIV-infected individuals, characterized by rapid 
progression toward end-stage liver disease. Highly active antiretroviral therapy 
is the mainstay of current acquired immunodeficiency syndrome management. One of 
the limiting side effects of combination therapy for HIV is hepatotoxicity, 
which is more common and often more serious in patients with underlying liver 
disease. Management of coinfected patients has no strict guidelines, but it is 
generally accepted that HIV infection needs to be treated before HCV. Hepatitis 
C in coinfected individuals is probably best treated using combination therapy 
(interferon alpha and ribavirin). It appears that combination therapy can safely 
be administered to this population and that previous concerns about 
ribavirin/zidovudine antagonism are unsubstantiated in clinical practice. 
Although initial results using only interferon alpha showed poor results in HIV 
coinfected patients, combination therapy seems to be as effective as in the 
general population. All HIV-HCV coinfected patients should be vaccinated against 
hepatitis B and hepatitis A; vaccines are safe and effective.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-200111000-00005
PMID: 11606851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Med Care. 2001 Nov;39(11):1246-59. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200111000-00011.

Can utility-weighted health-related quality-of-life estimates capture health 
effects of quality improvement for depression?

Donald Sherbourne C(1), Un√ºtzer J, Schoenbaum M, Duan N, Lenert LA, Sturm R, 
Wells KB.

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, California 90407-2138, USA. Cathy_Sherbourne@rand.org

BACKGROUND: Utility methods that are responsive to changes in desirable outcomes 
are needed for cost-effectiveness (CE) analyses and to help in decisions about 
resource allocation.
OBJECTIVES: Evaluated is the responsiveness of different methods that assign 
utility weights to subsets of SF-36 items to average improvements in health 
resulting from quality improvement (QI) interventions for depression.
DESIGN: A group level, randomized, control trial in 46 primary care clinics in 
six managed care organizations. Clinics were randomized to one of two QI 
interventions or usual care.
SUBJECTS: One thousand one hundred thirty-six patients with current depressive 
symptoms and either 12-month, lifetime, or no depressive disorder identified 
through screening 27,332 consecutive patients.
MEASURES: Utility weighted SF-12 or SF-36 measures, probable depression, and 
physical and mental health-related quality of life scores.
RESULTS: Several utility-weighted measures showed increases in utility values 
for patients in one of the interventions, relative to usual care, that 
paralleled the improved health effects for depression and emotional well being. 
However, QALY gains were small. Directly elicited utility values showed a 
paradoxical result of lower utility during the first year of the study for 
intervention patients relative to controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The results raise concerns about the use of direct single-item 
utility measures or utility measures derived from generic health status measures 
in effectiveness studies for depression. Choice of measure may lead to different 
conclusions about the benefit and CE of treatment. Utility measures that capture 
the mental health and non-health outcomes associated with treatment for 
depression are needed.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200111000-00011
PMID: 11606878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Soc Hist Med. 1995 Dec;8(3):423-42. doi: 10.1093/shm/8.3.423.

Medicalization and secularization: the Jewish ritual bath as a problem of 
hygiene (Germany 1820s-1840s).

Schlich T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut f√ºr Geschichte der Medizin der Robert Bosch Stiftung, Stuttgart, 
Germany.

In the 1820s and 1840s the Jewish ritual bath in Germany was criticized on the 
basis of medical arguments. Associated with this critique were demands for a 
change in the traditional Jewish way of life in general, especially as 
concerning the Jewish religion. The new role assigned to religion can be seen as 
part of a process of 'secularization'. The criticism of the ritual bath was 
justified by medical arguments and entailed a demand for an extension of the 
medical sphere of competence, and thus formed part of a development described as 
'medicalization'. An historical investigation of the debate on the Jewish ritual 
bath illuminates the way in which medicalization and secularization were 
different aspects of the same process of the attribution of complementary 
circumscribed spheres of medicine and religion.

DOI: 10.1093/shm/8.3.423
PMID: 11609053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Can Bull Med Hist. 1995;12(1):125-55. doi: 10.3138/cbmh.12.1.125.

The Canadian revolution in the management of spinal cord injury.

Tremblay M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Occupational Therapy and Physiotherapy, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario.

During World War II new programs for medical treatment and rehabilitation 
reduced mortality rates following spinal cord injury from over 80 percent in 
World War I to below 10 percent by 1946. In Canada a group of physicians, 
veterans, and civilians developed one of the first comprehensive sets of 
programs and services to permit the return of veterans with spinal cord injury 
to independent life in the community, beyond the confines of hospitals or 
paraplegic colonies. This article reviews the activities of Dr. E. Harry 
Botterell, Lieutenant John Counsell, and Dr. Al Jousse in the development of a 
Canadian approach that revolutionized the life experiences and life expectancy 
of individuals with spinal cord injury. It describes the development of their 
philosophy of rehabilitation as well as the programs and services they 
established at the No. 1 Canadian Neurological Hospital in England, and at 
Christie Street Military Hospital, Lyndhurst Lodge, and the Canadian Paraplegic 
Association in Canada.

DOI: 10.3138/cbmh.12.1.125
PMID: 11609092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Arch Hist Exact Sci. 1981;25(4):329-41. doi: 10.1007/BF01395659.

Giochi, scommesse sulla vita, tabelle di mortalit√†, nascita del calcolo 
probabilistico, statistica e teoria delle popolazioni.

Fenaroli G, Garibaldi U, Penco MA.

PIP: The authors review the work of Huygens, de Witt, Graunt, and others 
concerning the effects of chance on human life events. Topics considered include 
duration of life and annuity income, mortality wagering, population theories, 
and gambling theory.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01395659
PMID: 11610976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Popul Stud (Camb). 1986 Mar;40(1):147-57. doi: 10.1080/0032472031000141896.

How change in age-specific mortality affects life expectancy.

Vaupel JW.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472031000141896
PMID: 11611920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Local Popul Stud. 1986 Autumn;(37):45-52.

Life expectancy and 'age of first appearance' in medieval manorial court rolls.

Poos LR.

PMID: 11612080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Zhonghua Yi Shi Za Zhi. 1994;24(1):23-4.

[Analysis on the causes of death of inhabitants at the inner and outer cities of 
Peking in late Qing Dynasty].

[Article in Chinese]

You J.

Reports were made on the causes of death of Peking people inhabited in inner and 
outer cities within 2 days in 1908. Analysis showed that over 50% of the deaths 
were due to infectious diseases. The first 8 causes accounted for 70% of the 
total deaths, while the average expectancy of life at birth was 40.16 years of 
age.

PMID: 11615223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Can Soc Trends. 1987 Summer:15-9.

Increased life expectancy, 1921 to 1981.

Parliament J.

PMID: 11616785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Can Soc Trends. 1988;(11):25-7.

Cardiovascular disease, cancer and life expectancy.

Nagnur D, Nagrodaki M.

PMID: 11616790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Polit Econ. 1990;98(4):761-82. doi: 10.1086/261705.

A model of the demand for longevity and the value of life extension.

Ehrlich I, Chuma H.

DOI: 10.1086/261705
PMID: 11617449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Local Popul Stud. 1996 Autumn;(57):18-29.

Life expectations of the widows and orphans of freemen in London 1375-1399.

Megson B.

PMID: 11618569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Popul Stud (Camb). 1997 Mar;51(1):93-103. doi: 10.1080/0032472031000149766.

Mortality in Quebec during the nineteenth century: from the state to the cities.

Pelletier F, Legare J, Bourbeau R.

The aim of this paper is to explore mortality in Quebec during the nineteenth 
century from a demographic perspective. During the nineteenth century, there was 
excess urban mortality in various countries; in order to identify such mortality 
differentials, we compared mortality indicators for the province of Quebec and 
then for the urban areas of Montreal and Quebec City. Using data from various 
studies, we produced life tables and compared life expectancies. We show that at 
different times during the nineteenth century, spatial variations in mortality 
levels across the province of Quebec and its urban areas were significant. 
According to the data we analyzed, mortality is undoubtedly higher in urban 
areas even though a convergence in trends took place towards the end of the 
century, resulting in an overall reduction in mortality. Also, exploring life 
expectancies within a cohort approach at times of fast-changing mortality 
patterns has proved to be instructive. Life expectancy estimates based on a 
cross-sectional approach were systematically lower than those resulting from a 
cohort-specific one. Trends diverged to a greater extent beginning with the 1870 
cohort, reflecting the improvements made from that point on to World War II. 
Since current mortality levels are substantially determined by the cumulative 
effects of past behaviour specific to each generation, it is quite obvious that 
mortality analysis will reveal its true meaning only with the help of cohort 
life tables.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472031000149766
PMID: 11618988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Ann Demogr Hist (Paris). 1996:85-97.

[The evolutionary threshhold of age from old age: comparative approaches in 
France and Sweden].

[Article in French]

Bourdelais P.

The major criticism to be made concerning studies of ageing populations is that 
the threshold chosen as the entry into old age has remained fixed. However, in 
recent years, the realities of the age at which one becomes elderly have changed 
so much that persons in the category "over 60", for example, no longer occupy 
the same place in the succession of generations, the same economic and social 
roles as their not so distant forefathers. In particular, they no longer have 
the same life expectancy or the same state of health. Therefore, how are we to 
understand and interpret the growing proportion of older persons in our 
populations? To get out of this impasse, this article presents one possibility 
for determining an evolutionary threshold--it is one of the conditions of the 
comparison-- for entry into old age. It depends on the state of health of the 
persons concerned at each stage. This synthetic indicator has been applied in 
the French and Swedish populations since the mid-nineteenth century. The results 
underline the extent of the changes that have occurred, especially in the 
twentieth century, the closeness of the thresholds between the two countries at 
the beginning and end of the period, as well as the differences in the progress 
of masculine life expectancy. Although the proposed indicator can certainly be 
improved, it emerges strengthened by this comparative approach.

PMID: 11619283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Ann Demogr Hist (Paris). 1996:99-115.

[Evolution of the curves of total survivorship, without chronic illness and 
without incapacity in France from 1981 to 1991: the application of an OMS 
model].

[Article in French]

Robine JM(1), Mormiche P, Cambois E.

Author information:
(1)Inserm, D√©mographie et Sant√©, Montpellier.

In 1984, World Health Organisation (WHO) has proposed a demo-epidemiological 
model which allows the assessment of the possible consequences of the 
lengthening of life on the level of health. This model is represented in a 
graphic form by three curves: the observed survival curve, the hypothetical 
survival curve without chronic diseases and the hypothetical survival curve 
without disability; thus, as life expectancy at any age is calculated from the 
survival curve, this model allows the computation of life expectancy without 
chronic diseases and life expectancy without disability. The relationships 
between the three curves, can be used to illustrate the numerous theories 
dealing with the evolution of the populations' health which enliven debates in 
public health since several decades. Application of the model to French data on 
mortality, morbidity and disability also allows to enlighten the evolution of 
the health status of the French population over the last decade.

PMID: 11619284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Popul Stud (Camb). 1987;41(2):207-35. doi: 10.1080/0032472031000142776.

Exposure, resistance and life expectancy: disease and death during the economic 
development of Japan, 1900-1960.

Johansson SR, Mosk C.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472031000142776
PMID: 11621337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Proc Am Philos Soc. 1989 Jun;133(2):312-27.

Life expectancy of the gentry in eighteenth and nineteenth-century Philadelphia.

Kantrow L.

PMID: 11621914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Med Secoli. 1995;7(3):647-68.

[Health and health services].

[Article in Italian]

Ricciardi G(1), De Vito E.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Igiene, Universit√† degli Studi di Cassino, Italia.

The state of health of the world population has costantly improved in recent 
years. However, quality of life and life expectancy show huge variations in the 
different demografic regions of the world. To explain such differences three 
main factors can be considered: 1 - patterns of disease, which are largely 
determined by geography and climate; 2 - human behaviour; 3 - health services 
funding, organization and management. The paper develops a discussion on these 
issues, focusing on correlation between health systems methods of funding and 
management and state of health of the world population.

PMID: 11623493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Proc R Coll Physicians Edinb. 1999 Jan;29(1):71-5.

Ageing through the ages.

MacLennan WJ(1), Sellers WI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences (Anatomy Section), The University of 
Edinburgh Medical School.

PMID: 11623672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Can Bull Med Hist. 1999;16(1):89-124.

Masculinity, work and the fountain of youth: Irving Fisher and the life 
extension Institute, 1914-31.

Hirshbein LD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

In 1914, Progressive Era reformer Irving Fisher and the wealthy contractor 
Harold Ley founded the Life Extension Institute (LEI), a business venture 
organized to address the problems of American health. For approximately two 
decades, from 1914 until the death of its medical director in 1931, the Life 
Extension Institute widely promoted its health maintenance program of annual 
