physical examinations and health literature. The advertised goal of the LEI was 
to extend life without old age, as well as improve masculinity and good business 
practices through adherence to health principles. The first two decades of 
activities of the Life Extension Institute offer a window for examining early 
twentieth-century ideas about the relationships between health, old age, and 
masculinity. The LEI literature constructed a picture of healthy, vigorous, and 
efficient American working men that helped to cement ideals of masculinity to 
ideals of health.

PMID: 11624338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Rev Synth. 1997;(4):385-417.

[Order of mortality, duration of life and annuities in Johann Peter Süssmilch's 
Göttliche Ordnung].

[Article in French]

Rohrbasser JM.

The government of Providence builds the order which pastor Süssmilch sees in the 
demographic events and especially the order of mortality. God governs the length 
of human life and assigns to each person a just balance between fear of death 
and expectation of life. This authorizes Süssmilch to clarify the notions of 
probable life and life expectancy with the design to treat of their main 
application in the field of political arithmetic, that is the computations of 
Government loans under the form of annuities on lives. So he treats of an 
important question which concerns the history of actuarial calculation as well 
as the history of probability, of statistics and demography. We cannot forget 
also the political and philosophical points of view which the pastor underlines 
vividly: what sort of contract joins the creature and his God? This study of the 
contingent but optimal regularities which Providence makes in the world builds 
an important contribution to the physico-theological current.

PMID: 11625302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Popul Stud (Camb). 1974 Mar;28(1):127-42.

Fertility, mortality, and life expectancy in pre-modern Japan.

Hanley SB.

PMID: 11630548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Soc Sci Q. 1981;62(2):259-74.

Mortality by cause among Spanish surnamed Californians, 1969-71.

Schoen R, Nelson VE.

PIP: The authors analyze mortality for Mexican Americans by age, sex, and cause 
of death for the period 1969 to 1971 and present a life table for a large 
Mexican American population. Data are for California residents with Spanish 
surnames and are from the U.S. Bureau of the Census. Life expectancy of Mexican 
Americans by sex is examined and compared with that of other major ethnic 
groups, and the causes of death for Spanish-surnamed whites are analyzed

PMID: 11630847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Sci Soc. 1981-1982;45(4):453-74.

On the uses of disinformation to legitimize the revival of the cold war: health 
in the U.S.S.R.

Szymanski A.

PMID: 11633147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Stanovnistvo. 1978;16(1-4):118-39.

Smrtnost stanovnistva Jugoslavije prema starosti i polu u razdoblju 1952-1976.

[Article in Croatian]

Radivojevic B.

PIP: The author examines mortality trends in Yugoslavia between 1952 and 1976. 
Tables include data for selected years on mortality by age and sex and by 
region; number and rate of deaths by sex and cause for the whole country and for 
individual regions; expectation of life by sex and region; and expectation of 
life in Yugoslavia as compared with other countries (SUMMARY IN RUS)

PMID: 11636023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Dan Medicinhist Arbog. 1999:81-106.

[The early history of the Danish twin registry].

[Article in Danish]

Harvald B, Hauge G.

The Danish Twin Registry was initiated at the Copenhagen University Institute 
for Human Genetics in 1954 by professor Tage Kemp and his assistants, Bent 
Harvald and Mogens Hauge. The project was until 1960 primarily financed by US 
National Cancer Institutes. Twin pairs both of same and different sex, born 
1870-1910 were drawn from the birth registers and followed-up through the 
national registers until death or present place of living. Later on same sex 
pairs born 1911-30 were added. Besided cancer a multitude of other disorders 
were registered. Intensive studies on identical twins grown up apart were 
undertaken by Niels Juel-Nielsen, on criminal behaviour by Karl O. Christiansen, 
on smoking habits by Elisabeth Raaschou-Nielsen, on peptic ulcer by Kaj Gotlieb 
Jensen, on schizophrenia by Margit Fischer. Among early remarkable results 
should be mentioned the modest influence of genetic versus environmental factors 
in most cases of cancer, the strong genetic impact in mental and moral 
qualities, the approximate genetic/environmental ratio of 50/50 for the orgin of 
criminal behaviour and a corresponding ratio of 25/75 for life expectancy. In 
1971 the Danish Twin Registry was moved to Odense Universty.

PMID: 11639167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Daedalus. 1994 Fall;123(4):61-77.

The epidemiological transition: from material scarcity to social disadvantage?

Wilkinson RG.

PMID: 11639364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Soc Hist Med. 1995 Apr;8(1):37-53. doi: 10.1093/shm/8.1.37.

Writers to the Signet: estimates of adult mortality in Scotland from the 
sixteenth to the nineteenth century.

Houston RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Modern History, University of St. Andrews, Scotland.

Using a methodology previously applied to advocates, this article looks at the 
adult life expectancy of another group of Scottish lawyers, Writers to the 
Signet (WS). The mortality of WS fell decisively in the early eighteenth 
century. The social origins and living conditions of the WS are discussed and 
two conclusions drawn. First, improvements in mortality were not related to any 
significant change in hygiene, housing, or diet. Secondly, the lifestyle of WS 
probably typified that of Scotland's middling ranks and their demographic 
experience was likely to have been representative of the population at large. 
Comparisons are drawn with English and Continental data and the implications for 
understanding the course of population change in eighteenth-century Scotland are 
considered.

DOI: 10.1093/shm/8.1.37
PMID: 11639615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Sci Can. 1995;18(2):136-51. doi: 10.7202/800383ar.

Models for recording age in 1692-1851 Canada: the political-cognitive functions 
of census statistics.

Beaud JP, Prévost JG.

As a number of recent studies have emphasized, it is relevant to examine 
official statistics not just merely to assess the accuracy of historical data, 
but also in their own right, as political-cognitive devices which, by providing 
a standard to measure things, allow for an agreement regarding their objective 
existence and, therefore, the possibility to act upon them. In this paper, we 
focus on the different manners according to which, prior to the modern census 
era, ages of respondence were classified. Four different models emerge from this 
analysis, which in each case can be related to a specific political and social 
context.

DOI: 10.7202/800383ar
PMID: 11639841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Guthrie J Donald Guthrie Found Med Res. 1995 Spring;64(2):71-3.

Tombstones tell stories.

Hickey RC(1), Rivera DS.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D., Anderson Cancer Center, Houston.

PMID: 11640029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Ann Demogr Hist (Paris). 1994:119-34.

[Infant mortality in Great Britain: a review of historical knowledge].

[Article in French]

Woods R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Liverpool.

This paper provides a concise review of what is known about long-term trends in 
infant mortality rates in Britain since the middle of the sixteenth century. It 
considers, first, various estimates of infant mortality based on E.A. Wrigley 
and R.S. Schofield's estimates of life expectancy at birth for England, 
1541-1871, which it compares with equivalent series for groups of parishes and 
the families of the British peerage. Secondly, it explores the variations 
between infant mortality rates that were likely in different forms of 
environment, especially the urban and the rural. Thirdly, the paper suggests 
that the conditions affecting an individual's life chance in adulthood. It 
considers this possibility further using Thomas Hollingsworth's data for the 
British peerage. Fourthly, the paper attempts to provide some estimates of the 
social class variations in infant mortality in England and Wales in comparison 
with those in the USA at the end of the nineteenth and early years of the 
twentieth century. Lastly, some of these regularities are considered from an 
epidemiological perspective by examining cause of death patterns among children.

PMID: 11640589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2001 Nov;91(5):2035-40. doi: 
10.1152/jappl.2001.91.5.2035.

Muscle fiber and tendon length changes in the human vastus lateralis during slow 
pedaling.

Muraoka T(1), Kawakami Y, Tachi M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sports Sciences, Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School 
of Arts and Sciences, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Muscle fascicle lengths of vastus lateralis (VL) muscle were measured in five 
healthy men during slow pedaling to investigate the interaction between muscle 
fibers and tendon. Subjects cycled at a pedaling rate of 40 rpm (98 W). During 
exercise, fascicle lengths changed from 91 +/- 7 (SE) to 127 +/- 5 mm. It was 
suggested that fascicles were on the descending limb of their force-length 
relationship. The average shortening velocity of fascicle was greater than that 
of muscle-tendon complex in the first half of the knee extension phase and was 
less in the second half. The maximum shortening velocity of fascicle in the knee 
extension phase was less than that of muscle-tendon complex by 22 +/- 9%. These 
discrepancies in velocities were mainly caused by the elongation of the 
tendinous tissue. It was suggested that the elasticity of VL tendinous tissue 
enabled VL fascicles to develop force at closer length to their optimal length 
and kept the maximum shortening velocity of VL fascicles low during slow 
pedaling.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2001.91.5.2035
PMID: 11641341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Soc Secur Bull. 2000;63(4):38-46.

The erosion of retiree health benefits and retirement behavior: implications for 
the disability insurance program.

Fronstin P.

The effects of retiree health insurance on the decision to retire have not been 
examined until recently. It is an area of increasing significance because of 
rising health care costs for retirees, the uncertain future of Medicare, and 
increased life expectancy. In general, studies suggest that individual 
retirement decisions are strongly responsive to the availability of retiree 
health insurance. Early retiree benefits and retirement behavior are also 
important because they may affect the Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) 
program. It is not apparent that if a person loses retiree health benefits, or 
if fewer people are eligible for retiree health benefits in general, claims for 
DI will increase. The potential 2-year loss of health benefits may be a 
deterrent to leaving the labor force and claiming DI, although persons who are 
unable to work would leave the labor force even without health benefits. In 
order to understand how the decline in retiree health benefits may affect 
enrollment in DI, analysts must at least incorporate the role of coverage under 
the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA). That act 
provides many people with access to health insurance during the 2-year gap 
between eligibility for DI and Medicare. In fact, persons with sufficient means 
to retire early could use the income from Disability Insurance to buy COBRA 
coverage during the first 2 years of DI coverage. Determining the effect of the 
erosion of retiree health benefits on DI must account properly for the role of 
other factors that affect DI eligibility and participation. The financial 
incentives of Social Security, pension plans, retirement savings programs, 
health status, the availability of health insurance, and other factors 
influencing retirement decisions must be taken fully into account in order to 
isolate the precise effect of retiree health benefits.

PMID: 11641987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2001 Sep;49(7):572-5. doi:
10.1016/s0369-8114(01)00206-1.

[Epidemiological features and incidence trends of primary cerebral lymphomas 
observed in 80 HIV-infected patients from 1983 to 1999].

[Article in French]

Rigolet A(1), Bossi P, Caumes E, Agher R, Zeller V, Katlama C, Bricaire F.

Author information:
(1)Services de maladies infectieuses et tropicales, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, 
47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the epidemiological characteristics of primary central 
nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) and the evolution of the incidence of this 
lymphoma in HIV-infected patients with a more than 17-year follow-up.
RESULTS: Eighty cases of PCNSL were analyzed from a data base of 2,263 AIDS 
subjects followed from 1983 to 1999 (3.5% of the patients with AIDS). At the 
time of diagnosis, PCNSL was the first AIDS defining event in 36% of the cases, 
median CD4 count was 9/mm3 (0-134); 82% of the patients were given 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART = 0). Only eight cases of PCNSL were observed 
after 1996 (median HIV RNA level: 250,000 copies/mL (24,000-1,500,000)). The 
incidence was 39 per 100 patients-year in 1991 and decreased to 1.9 in 1999. At 
the end of the study, 78 patients had died (98%). The median survival was one 
month before 1996 ([0-27], n = 72), and was ten months after ([0-44], n = 8). 
Two patients were still alive 38 and 44 months after diagnosis. After 1996, 
survival was increased in patients with good response to antiretroviral 
treatment and in patients with high CD4 count at the moment of diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: After the introduction of HAART (1996), the incidence of PCNSL has 
decreased drastically and survival was increased.

DOI: 10.1016/s0369-8114(01)00206-1
PMID: 11642021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Genetika. 2001 Sep;37(9):1304-6.

[Radioinduced change in life span of laboratory strains of Drosophila 
melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Zaĭnullin VG(1), Moskalev AA.

Author information:
(1)Syktyvkar State University, Syktyvkar, 167001 Russia. zainullin@ib.komisc.ru

Chronic irradiation (accumulated dose 0.6-0.8 Gy) was shown to change the life 
span in male Drosophila melanogaster. Death was retarded in wild-type strains 
and accelerated in mutant strains defective in DNA repair and displaying a 
higher sensitivity to induction of apoptosis.

PMID: 11642136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Perspect Biol Med. 1990 Summer;33(4):517-27. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1990.0068.

Appeals to nature in theories of age-group justice.

Jecker NS.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1990.0068
PMID: 11642795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Hastings Cent Rep. 1991 May-Jun;21(3):S11-6.

The Oregon priority-setting exercise: quality of life and public policy.

Hadorn DC.

In 1989 the Oregon State legislature passed the Oregon Basic Health Services 
Act, which created a Health Services Commission charged with "developing a 
priority list of health services, ranging from the most important to the least 
important for the entire population to be served." The goal of this legislation 
was to permit the expansion of Medicaid to 100 percent of all Oregonians living 
in poverty by covering only services deemed to be of sufficient importance or 
priority...Instead, the OHSC developed a set of seventeen health service 
"categories," which described either a specific type of service...or, more 
generically, the expected outcomes of care... Commissioners formally ranked 
these seventeen categories in order of importance according to three subjective 
criteria: value to the individual, value to society, and whether the category 
seemed "necessary." Each treatment was then assigned to the single most 
appropriate category, based on Commissioners' judgment. Services were ranked 
within categories according to the degree of benefit expected from treatment... 
Estimates of how treatments affect quality of life were by far the single most 
important factor in determining the priority order on that list....

PMID: 11642898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Lancet. 1991 Nov 2;338(8775):1133-4. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91977-3.

The Oregon trail reaches Britain.

Dean M.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91977-3
PMID: 11642973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. J Med Ethics. 1993 Mar;19(1):24-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.19.1.24.

Response to Roger W. Hunt.

Callahan D.

A response to a critique by Roger W. Hunt of my views on the eventual likely 
need to use age as a standard for the allocation of expensive, high-technology, 
life-extending medical care for the elderly. The response encompasses three 
elements: 1. that while the elderly have a substantial claim to 
publicly-provided health care, it cannot be an unlimited claim; 2. that a health 
care system which provided a decent, coherent set of medical and social services 
for the elderly would be sufficient, even if some limits had to be set; and 3. 
allocation and rationing decisions should not be made by individual doctors at 
the bedside but by regional or national policy.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.19.1.24
PMCID: PMC1376164
PMID: 11643099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Hastings Cent Rep. 1977 Aug;7(4):42-4.

Aging in a culture without a future.

Lasch C.

PMID: 11643395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Science. 1982 Oct 29;218(4571):456. doi: 10.1126/science.218.4571.456-a.

Ethics panel faces the ax.

Norman C.

KIE: The President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine 
and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, scheduled to go out of business on 31 
December 1982, requested a three-month extension of its life to complete several 
reports. This brief news item reports that the requested extension was added as 
an amendment to a budget bill by the Senate but then stripped from the bill by a 
House-Senate conference committee.

DOI: 10.1126/science.218.4571.456-a
PMID: 11643805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Lancet. 1986 Mar 1;1(8479):513. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92982-x.

The Animals (Scientific Procedures) Bill.

McKie D.

KIE: Although the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Bill made it through its 
second reading in the House of Commons by a comfortable margin, the 
Government-backed bill faces solid opposition from the Liberal/Social Democratic 
Alliance and the leftist Campaign group of Labour MPs. Even the great majority 
of Labour MPs who do not belong to the Campaign group failed to demonstrate any 
positive support for the bill, which suggests that lobbyists against animal 
experimentation may have made their case more forcefully than those defending 
medical research. Although the bill will probably emerge from the House of 
Commons with additional restrictions on the use of animals in research, its life 
expectancy is expected to be short, given the political momentum of the animal 
welfare movement in Great Britain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92982-x
PMID: 11644493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 1994 Summer;3(3):486-8. doi:
10.1017/s0963180100005326.

The Troubled Dream of Life, Daniel Callahan.

Lustig BA.

DOI: 10.1017/s0963180100005326
PMID: 11644633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Perspect Biol Med. 1995 Autumn;39(1):1-14. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1995.0021.

Health care -- a business or a service?

Black D.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1995.0021
PMID: 11644737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Daedalus. 1978 Spring;107(2):211-26.

Misgivings about life-extending technologies.

Morison RS.

PMID: 11645790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. South Calif Law Rev. 1991 Nov;65(1):205-24.

Transforming mortality: technology and the allocation of resources.

Callahan D.

PMID: 11645831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. N Y Times Web. 1992 Nov 24:C2, C3.

Ethicists struggle to judge the 'value' of life.

Kolata G.

PMID: 11646961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. N Y Times Web. 1998 Mar 21:A1, A12.

Scientists brace for changes in path of human evolution.

Kolata G.

PMID: 11647569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Wests Calif Report. 1992 Jan 29;4:59-65.

Donaldson v. Van de Kamp.

California. Court of Appeal, Second District, Division 6.

KIE: The California Court of Appeal, Second District, held that Thomas 
Donaldson, who has an inoperable, malignant brain tumor, has no constitutional 
right to either premortem cryogenic suspension or assisted suicide. Donaldson 
claimed that his right to privacy, self determination, and free expression 
enabled him to undergo this procedure, which would irreversibly cease his 
circulatory, respiratory, and brain functions. However, the court determined 
that the state's interest in preserving life, preventing suicide, protecting 
innocent third parties, and maintaining the ethical integrity of the medical 
profession outweighed Donaldson's interest in preserving his body until 
treatment for his condition was available. The court distinguished Donaldson's 
situation from cases involving the termination of life support systems. The 
court denied Donaldson's request that a coroner be prohibited from performing an 
autopsy. The court also refused to prevent law enforcement officials from 
prosecuting any individual who assists in a suicide.

PMID: 11648224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Atl Report. 1987 Jun 24;529:419-34.

In re Peter.

New Jersey. Supreme Court.

KIE: A 65-year-old nursing home patient in a persistent vegetative state with no 
hope of recovery, Hilda Peter was sustained by a nasogastric tube and was not 
expected to die in the near future. Citing her life expectancy, the New Jersey 
Ombudsman for the Institutionalized Elderly denied her guardian's request under 
power of attorney to remove the tube in accordance with her wishes as expressed 
prior to her incompetency. The New Jersey Supreme Court granted the guardian's 
application for certification and remanded the case to the Ombudsman, thus 
affirming the right to refuse life-sustaining medical treatment, regardless of 
competency.

PMID: 11648264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. All Engl Law Rep. 1981 Aug 7;[1990] 3:927-30.

Re B (A Minor) (Wardship: Medical Treatment).

Great Britain. England. Court of Appeal, Civil Division.

KIE: The British Court of Appeal, Civil Division, allowed the appeal of the 
local NHS health authority and authorized life-saving surgery for a mentally 
retarded infant against her parents' wishes. B was born with Down syndrome and 
an intestinal blockage. Without an operation, she would die within days; with an 
operation and without other complications, her life expectancy was between 20 
and 30 years. Acting in what they saw as their child's best interests, her 
parents refused to consent to the operation. The appellate court's decision to 
authorize surgery was based on the welfare of the child. The judges held that if 
the operation were successful the girl could live the normal life span of a Down 
syndrome child with the handicaps of such a child, and "it is not for this court 
to say that life of that description ought to be extinguished."

PMID: 11648312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Wests Calif Report. 1992 Aug 21;11:169-88.

Arato v. Avedon.

California. Court of Appeal, Second District, Division 3.

KIE: A California appellate court reversed a jury verdict in favor of a doctor 
who had been accused of negligence by surviving family members for not 
disclosing life expectancy information to a patient suffering from pancreatic 
cancer. The Court of Appeal determined that a physician has a fiduciary duty to 
disclose information about life expectancy to a patient who has indicated his 
desire to make a fully informed decision. In addition, the court held that 
expert testimony concerning medical community standards regarding disclosure of 
life expectancy was erroneously admitted because the duty to disclose is 
mandated by law. Also, the instructions given to the jury at the trial were 
misleading because they implied, "...the physician, not the patient, ultimately 
knows what is best...."

PMID: 11648615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Soc Sci Med F. 1981 Dec;15F(4):151-6.

Triage in medical practices: an unacceptable model?

Bell NK.

KIE: Two basic presuppositions of triage are challenged: the utilitarian notion 
that it is morally preferable to save the greater number, and the extension of 
the salvageability concept as a model for macroallocation of scarce medical 
resources. The 'more is better' principle lacks the status of a universal moral 
obligation and leads to an impersonal view of the valuing of life. In the 
allocation of scarce resources, triage is suspect since life-saving decisions 
involve medical, social, economic, and political criteria. Triage thus 
perpetuates existing injustices.

PMID: 11649361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Univ N S W Law J. 1983;6(1):119-32.

Intimations of immortality: clones, cryons and the law.

Smith GP.

PMID: 11649730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Bioethics. 1988 Apr;2(2):151-69. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1988.tb00044.x.

Setting Limits: Medical Goals in an Aging Society, by Daniel Callahan.

Singer P.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1988.tb00044.x
PMID: 11650055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Tradition. 1989 Winter;24(2):150-60.

Science and values.

Weiss DW.

PMID: 11650277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Sciences (New York). 1984 Jul-Aug;24(4):7-8. doi: 
10.1002/j.2326-1951.1984.tb02717.x.

A duty to die?

Lasagna L.

DOI: 10.1002/j.2326-1951.1984.tb02717.x
PMID: 11650672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Bus Prof Ethics J. 1990 Fall-Winter;9(3-4):84-94.

Heads, feds, and beds: ethical dilemmas in the delivery of medical care.

Williams AR.

PMID: 11651002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1991 May;73-B(3):365-7.

Setting priorities in health care: an economist's view.

Williams A.

PMID: 11651160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Trends Health Care Law Ethics. 1992 Spring-Summer;7(3-4):19-28.

Confluence of ethical and economic issues in the development and adoption of 
high technology approaches in clinical care.

Keller KH.

PMID: 11651471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Bioethics. 1992 Jul;6(3):185-200. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00197.x.

Valuing lives.

Perrett RW.

[E]conomists have to assess the value of human lives in order to decide how much 
ought to be spent on matters like road improvements, safety measures, health 
costs and pollution controls. These economic measures of the value of a life are 
the subject of this paper. When I first heard of the attempts of economists to 
put a monetary price on the value of a life I was sure that such measures would 
have to be at best hopelessly partial and at worst morally objectionable. I now 
think I was wrong on both counts and in this paper I shall argue that: (i) it is 
morally permissible to put a price on a person's life; and (ii) there is a 
theoretically adequate way of determining such a price.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00197.x
PMID: 11651496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Bioethics. 1993 Apr;7(2-3):224-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1993.tb00288.x.

Rationing fairly: programmatic considerations.

Daniels N.

I conclude with a plea against provincialism. The four problems I illustrated 
have their analogues in the rationing of goods other than health care. To flesh 
out a principle that says "people are equal before the law" will involve 
decisions about how to allocate legal services among all people who can make 
plausible claims to need them by citing that principle. Similarly, to give 
content to a principle that assures equal educational opportunity will involve 
decisions about resource allocation very much like those involved in rationing 
health care. Being provincial about health care rationing will prevent us from 
seeing the relationships among these rationing problems. Conversely, a rationing 
theory will have greater force if it derives from consideration of common types 
of problems that are independent of the kinds of goods whose distribution is in 
question. I am suggesting that exploring a theory of rationing in this way is a 
prolegomenon to serious work in "applied ethics."

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1993.tb00288.x
PMID: 11651535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Med Humanit. 1993 Fall;14(3):149-65. doi: 10.1007/BF01141687.

Age rationing, the virtues, and wanting more life.

Purviance SM.

The goal of this paper is to show that Callahan's reasons for withholding life 
extending care cannot be made out exclusively in terms of contemporary notions 
of distributive justice and fair allocation. I argue that by relying on a notion 
of justice which links the merit of the individual with the fairness of a social 
pattern of shares, Callahan imputes vice to the elderly as he denies them 
eligibility for life-prolonging care. Aristotle's doctrine of the mean is a 
useful tool for character evaluation. One can speak meaningfully of a proper 
disposition of a person of a certain type (an elderly person) with respect to 
the good of continued life. I claim that the mean of one's disposition with 
respect to the good of continued life would be relative to one's age group, and 
would be determined by that principle by which an elderly person of practical 
wisdom would determine it. This leads to very different conclusions than those 
drawn by Callahan.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01141687
PMID: 11651581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Am Scholar. 1983 Spring;52(2):173-91.

The case for mortality.

Kass LR.

PMID: 11651832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Bioethics. 1987 Jul;1(3):226-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00009.x.

The accountant as triage master: an economist's perspective on voluntary 
euthanasia and the value of life debate.

Richardson J.

KIE: The author, an economist, rebuts the contention that human life cannot and 
should not be economically evaluated and argues that such evaluations are made 
implicitly and inconsistently, resulting in a reduction of human welfare. He 
presents an economic framework for the analysis of costs and benefits in which 
the focal point, as in most value systems, is the tradeoff between life and 
quality of life. Therefore, as the quality of life decreases, society's efforts 
to preserve life should decrease. If the valuation of life includes self 
evaluation, then there should be less effort to preserve the life of an 
individual who wishes to die. Richardson concludes that voluntary euthanasia is 
a limiting case in which society accepts the individual's valuation of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00009.x
PMID: 11651869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Bioethics. 1987 Jul;1(3):275-83. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00013.x.

A report from Australia: which babies are too expensive to treat?

Singer P.

KIE: The author examines current practices and attitudes of Australian 
neonatologists regarding the treatment of low birth weight infants. One 
intensive care unit adheres to criteria of treatment based on weight and its 
perceived connection with prognosis even when there are available beds and 
equipment. Another unit treats infants of much lower weight with poorer 
prognoses. A survey of Australian neonatologists revealed that although most 
knew of varying practices, over half were opposed to disclosing this knowledge 
to parents. The physicians were also queried on allocation of resources among 
infants of varying weights in the units, and on prevention of prematurity. 
Singer discusses the QALY (quality adjusted life year) and its application in 
comparing the benefits of resource allocation to neonatal intensive care and to 
adult care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00013.x
PMID: 11651872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Bioethics. 1987 Oct;1(4):301-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00015.x.

Prenatal wrongful death.

Steinbock B.

KIE: In Tebbutt v. Virostek (1985), the New York Court of Appeals dismissed a 
suit for emotional distress caused by the stillbirth of an infant allegedly 
resulting from medical malpractice. Steinbock argues that parents should be able 
to recover for emotional anguish in cases like Tebbutt. Some states currently 
allow them to do so by recognizing prenatal wrongful death suits, which focus on 
the unborn. Steinbock maintains that a better legal approach would be to allow 
recovery for the negligent infliction of emotional distress upon the parent(s). 
She presents a six-part argument that discusses: (1) the facts of Tebbutt; (2) 
wrongful death actions and their extension to the unborn; (3) prenatal torts and 
prenatal wrongful death; (4) the recognition of harms or wrongs to nonviable 
fetuses; (5) the legal implications of recognizing fetal personhood; and (6) 
recognizing parental rights in cases like Tebbutt without recognizing the fetus 
as a person.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1987.tb00015.x
PMID: 11651905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Linacre Q. 1988 Nov;55(4):57-63. doi: 10.1080/00243639.1988.11877983.

Allocation and aging: a review and response to Callahan's Setting Limits.

Johnson PR.

DOI: 10.1080/00243639.1988.11877983
PMID: 11651931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Philos Public Aff. 1989 Summer;18(3):297-312.

Justice, health care, and the elderly.

Brock DW.

KIE: Concern over rising health costs in the United States has led to an 
intensifying policy debate over health care for the elderly and a rethinking of 
questions on intergenerational justice and the claims of the aged on social 
resources. Major contributions to this debate have been made by Daniel Callahan 
in his Setting Limits (Simon & Schuster; 1987) and by Norman Daniels in his Am I 
My Parents' Keeper? (Oxford University Press; 1988). Brock reviews Callahan's 
and Daniels' work, identifying the central focus of both as the age-group 
problem of resource allocation. He sees Callahan as calling upon a communitarian 
political philosophy and Daniels as arguing from a tradition of political 
liberalism. While disagreeing in part with both authors, Brock identifies 
compatible elements in their arguments that contribute significantly to the 
public debate over health care and the aged.

PMID: 11651943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Speculations Sci Technol. 1989;12(2):83-95.

Born again: the ethics of the first body transplants.

Freedman B, Coughlin MD.

PMID: 11651993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Bioethics. 1992 Apr;6(2):130-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00191.x.

Strong Medicine, by Paul T. Menzel.

Savulescu J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00191.x
PMID: 11652085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Bioethics. 1992 Oct;6(4):297-316. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00208.x.

QALYs, age and fairness.

Kappel K, Sandøe P.

... We can therefore conclude that either we should go for equality; and in that 
case QALYs are unfair because they haven't got enough of an ageist bias. Or we 
should accept consequentialism; and in that case QALYs have just the right sort 
of ageist bias. No plausible case can, however, be made for the claim that QALYs 
have an unfair bias against old people. Other things being equal we ought when 
distributing resources essential for survival favour the young. This ethical 
claim can be supported both by reference to equality (the life-time-view) and by 
reference to consequentialism (and the premises that resources generally will be 
more useful when given to young people).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1992.tb00208.x
PMID: 11652092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Free Inq. 1989 Spring;9(2):14-8.

Can we achieve immortality? The ethics of cloning and other life-extension 
technologies.

Kahn C.

PMID: 11652341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Free Inq. 1989 Spring;9(2):19-24.

Many are cold but few are frozen: a humanist looks at cryonics.

Harris SB.

PMID: 11652342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Albany Law Rev. 1994;57(3):655-77.

Medical innovations and ethics: a state government perspective.

Swidler RN.

PMID: 11652859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Omega (Westport). 1994-1995;30(3):159-71.

Cryonic suspension: an Omega interview with R.C.W. Ettinger.

Kastenbaum R, Ettinger R.

PMID: 11652931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Bioethics. 1995 Jul;9(3-4):240-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1995.tb00358.x.

Weighting health states and strong evaluation.

Edgar A.

The problem of public consultation over the allocation of health care resources 
is addressed by considering the role that quality of life measures, such as 
QALYs and the Nottingham Health Profile, could play. Such measures are typically 
grounded in social surveys, and as such may reflect public preferences for 
health care priorities. Using Charles Taylor's concepts of "weak" and "strong" 
evaluation, it is suggested that current quality of life measures are 
inadequate, insofar as they typically presuppose that survey respondents are 
mere "weak evaluators", who express only inarticulate preferences. Respondents 
may, conversely, be understood as strong evaluators, with deeper visions of 
human nature and the good life informing their health preferences. Space is then 
created for such respondents to be asked to defend their preferences, and so be 
encouraged to reflect critically and publicly on the beliefs and prejudices that 
ground their view of health care priorities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1995.tb00358.x
PMID: 11653039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Soc Philos Policy. 1995 Summer;12(2):159-85. doi: 10.1017/s0265052500004714.

Justice and the ADA: does prioritizing and rationing health care discriminate 
against the disabled?

Brock DW.

DOI: 10.1017/s0265052500004714
PMID: 11653122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Clin Ethics Rep. 1995 Spring-Summer;9(1-2):1-20.

Bioethics in the courts: summaries of selected judicial decisions, 1989 to 1995.

Nelson LJ.

PMID: 11653201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Soc Policy. 1993 Jan;22(1):19-48. doi: 10.1017/s0047279400019097.

What does equity in health mean?

Pereira J.

DOI: 10.1017/s0047279400019097
PMID: 11653202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Aust Paediatr J. 1989 Apr;25(3):61-5.

Cost-analysis of neonatal intensive and special care.

Tudehope DI, Lee W, Harris F, Addison C.

PMID: 11653892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Christ Bioeth. 1996;2(3):355-60. doi: 10.1093/cb/2.3.355.

Equality in health care: Christian engagement with a secular obsession.

Engelhardt HT.
