
A frenetic search for equality lies at the center of much secular and even 
"Christian" bioethics. In a secular world, if one does not believe in God, if 
this life is one's whole existence, it would seem that one could not settle for 
less than equal approbation, especially equality before the risks of suffering 
and death, which medicine promises to ameliorate. Yet, the concern for equality 
in health care is puzzling. After a modest level of access to health care there 
is little difference in average life expectancy. Are concerns for equality in 
health care even vaguely Christian? The pursuit of Christian perfection has 
never been correctly equated with state-imposed egalitarianism. Furthermore, an 
all-encompassing, secular, egalitarian health care system may provide equal 
access to significantly immoral medical treatments. In contrast to secular 
thought, the call of Christianity is a call to holiness, not a call to an 
egalitarianism that superficially resonates with certain elements of Christian 
thought.

DOI: 10.1093/cb/2.3.355
PMID: 11654660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Santa Clara Comput High Technol Law J. 1992;8:469-98.

"He wants to do what?" Cryonics: issues in questionable medicine and 
self-determination.

LaBouff JP.

PMID: 11654757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Fam Law. 1981-1982;20(2):241-61.

Abortion and international law: the status and possible extension of women's 
right to privacy.

Michel AE.

PMID: 11655655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. New Sci. 1994 Feb 19;141(1913):22-4.

Can we grow younger?

Saul H.

PMID: 11656316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Med Bull Istanbul Med Fac. 1985;18:137-44.

A general view of the original problems with regard to medical ethics.

Demirhan A.

PMID: 11656353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Healthcover. 1992 Aug-Sep;2(4):40-42, 45-46.

The resource allocation dilemma.

Caton H.

PMID: 11656375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Dickinson Law Rev. 1994 Summer;98(4):677-711.

Cryonic preservation of human bodies -- a call for legislative action.

Baker DM.

PMID: 11656547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. St Louis Univ Public Law Rev. 1996;15(2):447-69.

Pathways to immortality in the new millenium: human responsibility, theological 
direction, or legal mandate.

Smith GP.

PMID: 11656882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Dolentium Hominum. 1998;No. 37 yr. 13(1):58-62.

Ethical models for health management.

Eijk WJ.

PMID: 11657198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Bioethics. 1994 Jan;8(1):49-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00241.x.

Treatment limitation decisions under uncertainty: the value of subsequent 
euthanasia.

Savulescu J.

This paper examines how decisions to limit treatment to critically ill patients 
under uncertainty can be made rationally. Expected utility theory offers one way 
of making rational decisions under uncertainty. One problem with using this 
approach is that we may not know the value of each option. One rational course 
open is to treat until further information becomes available. However, treatment 
can limit the range of options open. With treatment, a patient may recover such 
that he no longer requires life-supporting treatment. However, his life may be 
not worth living. If active euthanasia of 'non-terminal' conditions is 
prohibited, the option of dying will no longer be available. Taking a rational 
'wait and see' course may result in being trapped within an unbearable life. On 
the other hand, sometimes present practice 'lets nature take its course'. 
Critically ill patients are allowed to die because it is believed that their 
lives will be not worth living. It is likely that some patients are allowed to 
die when there is some objective chance of worthwhile future life. This paper 
argues that a policy of treating critically ill patients until the nature of 
future options can be better evaluated, in company with an offer of subsequent 
euthanasia where appropriate, allows a more rational and humane approach to 
treatment limitation decisions under uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00241.x
PMID: 11657375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Bioethics. 1994 Jan;8(1):74-83. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00242.x.

Does justice require that we be ageist?

Harris J.

This paper restates some of the principal arguments against an automatic 
preference for the young as advocated by Kappel and Sandøe, arguments many of 
which have been extant for over a decade but which Kappel and Sandøe largely 
ignore. It then goes on to demonstrate that Kappel and Sandøe's "indifference 
test" fails to do the work required of it because it can be met by unacceptable 
conceptions of justice. The paper develops a number of new arguments against 
what I have called "ageist" preferences for the young or for those with long 
life expectancy. Finally I show that Kappel and Sandøe must believe that 
murdering older people is less morally wrong than murdering the young and that 
people relying on arguments such as theirs will have to accept the moral 
respectability of killing the innocent in order to maximise units of lifetime.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00242.x
PMID: 11657376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Bioethics. 1994 Jan;8(1):84-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00243.x.

Saving the young before the old -- a reply to John Harris.

Kappel K, Sandøe P.

For a distribution of health care resources to be fair, it should consider the 
consequences for the whole lives of the affected persons and not just how badly 
off they are at the present moment. Since, other things being equal, a person is 
worse off if he dies young than if he dies old, it is fair to give scarce vital 
health care resources to young rather than to old persons. In the paper this 
ageist view is restated and defended against a number of objections raised by 
John Harris. According to Harris' so-called anti-ageist argument the only 
relevant consideration in the distribution of vital health care resources is 
people's desire to go on living. On reflection, this is highly counterintuitive. 
Instead, it is argued that both present desires to go on living and possible 
future happiness should weigh together with considerations of fairness. Both 
fairness and possible future happiness will in most cases speak in favour of 
saving the young before the old. A number of other problems for the ageist view 
are discussed, and solutions are suggested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.1994.tb00243.x
PMID: 11657377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. New Sci. 1998 Dec 5;160(2163):49.

Immortal longings.

Klotzko AJ.

PMID: 11657441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 1999 Sep;9(3):263-84. doi: 10.1353/ken.1999.0021.

The challenge of measuring community values in ways appropriate for setting 
health care priorities.

Ubel PA.

The move from a notion that community values ought to play a role in health care 
decision making to the creation of health care policies that in some way reflect 
such values is a challenging one. No single method will adequately measure 
community values in a way appropriate for setting health care priorities. 
Consequently, multiple methods to measure community values should be employed, 
thereby allowing the strengths and weaknesses of the various methods to 
complement each other. A preliminary research agenda to bring together empirical 
research on community values with more traditional research on health care 
ethics is outlined, with the goal of identifying and measuring acceptable 
community values that are relatively consistent across measurement methods and, 
ultimately, developing ways to incorporate these values into health care 
priority decision making.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.1999.0021
PMID: 11657717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Leg Med Q. 1996;20(Pt. 4):7-9.

Jeopardizing the short life-expectancy of a critically ill patient for medical 
experiments to prolong his life; resolving a halakhic and ethical dilemma.

Goren S.

PMID: 11657747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Bus Ethics. 1999 Apr;8(2):128-33. doi: 10.1111/1467-8608.00137.

Public service ethics: lessons from the health sector.

Dargie C.

DOI: 10.1111/1467-8608.00137
PMID: 11657842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Free Inq. 1999 Fall;19(4):37.

The future of engineering humans: an interview with bioethicist Arthur Caplan.

Madigan T, Caplan A.

PMID: 11657871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Free Inq. 1999 Fall;19(4):42-3.

Forward to Methuselah: do we really want to live a long, long time?

Madigan TJ.

PMID: 11657873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Mod Law Rev. 1995 Nov;58(6):867-77. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2230.1995.tb02057.x.

Allocating health care resources in an imperfect world.

Parkin A.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2230.1995.tb02057.x
PMID: 11658160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Indiana Law J. 1997 Autumn;72(4):1015-97.

Rationing through choice: a new approach to cost-effectiveness analysis in 
health care.

Rai AK.

PMID: 11658223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 2000 Jun;10(2):109-27. doi: 10.1353/ken.2000.0014.

Inequalities in health, inequalities in health care: four generations of 
discussion about justice and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Powers M, Faden R.

The focus of questions of justice in health policy has shifted during the last 
20 years, beginning with questions about rights to health care, and then, by the 
late 1980s, turning to issues of rationing. More recently, attention has focused 
on alternatives to cost-effectiveness analysis. In addition, health 
inequalities, and not just inequalities in access to health care, have become 
the subject of moral analysis. This article examines how such trends have 
transformed the philosophical landscape and encouraged some in bioethics to seek 
guidance on normative questions from outside of the contours of traditional 
philosophical arguments about justice.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.2000.0014
PMID: 11658248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Dialect Hum. 1977 Summer;4(3):113-8. doi:
10.5840/dialecticshumanism19774344.

Medical and moral problems of dying and death.

Kielanowski T.

DOI: 10.5840/dialecticshumanism19774344
PMID: 11658294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1986 Jul 5;293(6538):59.

One man's burden:

O'Donnell M.

KIE: O'Donnell objects to assigning priorities in the allocation of health 
resources by using the quality adjusted life year (QALY), which gives healthy 
life expectancy a positive mathematical value and unhealthy life expectancy a 
negative value. He argues that not everyone prefers a short healthy life to a 
long disabled one, and that administrators and physicians should not be allowed 
to choose whom to treat based on their assessment of someone else's quality of 
life. The QALY, he maintains, is a new version of "old guesses and prejudices," 
and is an unjust way to bring management efficiency to Britain's National Health 
Service. O'Donnell agrees with philosopher John Harris that a lottery would be a 
fairer way to allocate resources.

PMCID: PMC1340825
PMID: 11658778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Ethics. 1987 Jan;97(2):317-40. doi: 10.1086/292841.

Age rationing and the just distribution of health care: is there a duty to die?

Battin MP.

KIE: The author analyzes the argument that a policy involving distributive 
justice in the allocation of scarce health care resources, based on the strategy 
of rational self interest maximation under a veil of ignorance (Rawls/Daniels), 
would result in an age rationing system of voluntary, socially encouraged, 
direct termination of the lives of the elderly rather than their medical 
abandonment. She maintains that such a policy would be a fair response only in a 
situation of substantial scarcity of resources that cannot be relieved without 
introducing greater injustices. Battin suggests that some of the current 
pressure on resources could be reduced by pruning waste and the expenses 
attributable to paternalistic imposition of treatment and to the practice of 
defensive medicine. She also advocates reconsideration of societal priorities 
assigned to various social goods.

DOI: 10.1086/292841
PMID: 11658878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. US News World Rep. 1988 Feb 22;104(7):78.

A better life--not a longer one: conversation with Joanne Silberner.

Callahan D.

PMID: 11658906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Time. 1987 Nov 2;130(18):76-7.

Examining the limits of life.

Angelo B.

PMID: 11658926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Public Aff Q. 1988 Jul;2(3):51-68.

Disenfranchising the elderly from life-extending medical care.

Jecker NS.

PMID: 11659037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Ethics. 1989 Oct;100(1):169-76. doi: 10.1086/293154.

Private virtues, public detriment: allocating scarce medical resources to the 
elderly.

Churchill LR.

KIE: Churchill reviews Norman Daniels' Am I My Parents' Keeper (Oxford 
University Press; 1988) and Daniel Callahan's Setting Limits (Simon & Schuster; 
1987). Both books present their authors' reflections on one of the most pressing 
problems of social ethics, how to allocate health care resources to the elderly 
in a climate of scarcity. Churchill first analyzes Daniels' response to the 
problem, the "prudential lifespan account," by which health care rights might 
give persons legitimate claims to services at one stage of their lives but not 
at another. This approach is contrasted with Callahan's "return to virtue" 
argument, which rests upon two major claims, one about the appropriate ends of 
medicine and the other about the meaning of old age. Churchill discusses both 
works within the context of the problematic relation in the United States 
between private and public goods, and between individual and social well-being.

DOI: 10.1086/293154
PMID: 11659151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. New Repub. 1989 Jul 17;201(3 & 4):18-20.

Genes 'r' us.

Saletan W.

PMID: 11659152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Bull Med Ethics. 1991 Apr;No. 67:13-6.

QALYs and the mentally handicapped.

Crisp R.

PMID: 11659345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Society. 1991 Sep-Oct;28(6):29-31. doi: 10.1007/BF02695755.

Health care struggle between young and old.

Callahan D.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02695755
PMID: 11659421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Gastroenterology. 1991 Aug;66(8):990-3.

The Oregon formula: health economists' dream or Stalinist nightmare?

Stevenson R.

PMID: 11659472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Soc Issues. 1991 Winter;47(4):69-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-4560.1991.tb01835.x.

Health-related quality of life in patient decision making.

Kaplan RM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4560.1991.tb01835.x
PMID: 11659600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Hastings Cent Rep. 1994 Mar-Apr;24(2 Suppl):S1-12.

What do we owe the elderly? Allocating social and health care resources.

Institute for Bioethics (Maastricht, The Netherlands); Hastings Center.

The purpose of this report is to present the reflections of an international 
research group that focused its attention on the moral problems of care for the 
elderly in the years ahead, and in particular on the problem of an equitable and 
reasonable allocation of resources. By stressing the "moral" problems, we mean 
to call attention to an often neglected dimension of the public and professional 
discussion: that of the obligations owed to the elderly by individuals and 
society, the reciprocal obligations on the part of the elderly, and the ethical 
dilemmas that sensitive care for them cannot avoid. Most generally, we want to 
call attention to the often hidden value issues and considerations of a 
discussion that, in most countries, is restricted to economic and institutional 
arrangements only.

PMID: 11659724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Indiana Law J. 1995 Spring;70(2):491-547.

Health care rationing and disability rights.

Peters PG.

PMID: 11660218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Calif Law Rev. 1994 Dec;82(6):1449-544.

Allocating health care morally.

Elhauge E.

PMID: 11660282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Clevel State Law Rev. 1995;43(2):319-50.

A doctor's duty to disclose life expectancy information to terminally ill 
patients.

Dickerson DA.

PMID: 11660488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Indiana Law J. 1996 Fall;71(4):877-910.

Preventing the discovery of plaintiff genetic profiles by defendants seeking to 
limit damages in personal injury litigation.

Rothstein MA.

PMID: 11660641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. New Engl Law Rev. 1973 Spring;8(2):183-96.

When is it time to die? Prolegomenon to voluntary euthanasia.

Reeves RB.

PMID: 11660951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Can Bar Rev. 1973 Mar;51(1):119-36.

Legal implications of biomedical science and technology in the twenty-first 
century.

Castel JG.

PMID: 11660992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Humanist. 1974 Jul-Aug;34(4):19-21.

Jewish views on euthanasia.

Sherwin BL.

PMID: 11661123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Analog Sci Fict Sci Fact. 1979 Jun;99(6):67-70+.

A matter of life and death.

Ettinger R.

PMID: 11661782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Ethics. 1980 Oct;91(1):100-16. doi: 10.1086/292206.

Moral responsibility and the "Galilean imperative".

Lakoff SA.

DOI: 10.1086/292206
PMID: 11661871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Monist. 1976 Apr;59(2):249-63. doi: 10.5840/monist197659227.

The conquest of death.

Puccetti R.

DOI: 10.5840/monist197659227
PMID: 11662248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. US Cathol. 1978 Mar;43(3):13-7.

Is the right-to-die wrong?

Hellegers AE, Wakin E.

PMID: 11662447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Futurist. 1978 Jun;12(3):175-81.

The impending society of immortals.

Fowles J.

PMID: 11662713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Valparaiso Univ Law Rev. 1977 Fall;12(1):143-78.

Preconception injuries: viable extension of prenatal injury law or inconceivable 
tort?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11665002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2001 Jun;56(3):240-7.

Cystic fibrosis: review of the decade.

Jaffé A(1), Bush A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Paediatrics, Level 4, Chelsea Wing, Royal Brompton 
and Harefield NHS Trust, Sydney Street, London SW3 6NP, England. 
ajaffe@doctors.org.uk

The median estimated life expectancy of children with cystic fibrosis (CF) born 
in 1990 is 40 years which represents a doubling in the last 20 years, and nearly 
half of all patients are now adults. Since the identification of the gene, more 
than 1000 gene mutations have been discovered. This gene encodes for the cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a protein that is thought 
to have a role in ion transport, mucus rheology, inflammation and bacterial 
adherence. Various therapeutic mechanisms are currently being investigated in an 
attempt to overcome these abnormalities. Recombinant human DNase is beneficial 
in many patients and the use of anti-inflammatory agents such as steroids, 
ibuprofen and macrolides have potential. Despite these advances in treatment it 
is essential that these patients are diagnosed early. Whilst the case for 
neonatal screening is not absolutely conclusive the evidence is highly 
suggestive that it would be beneficial. It may be that, in the future, new 
treatments such as gene therapy will be more effective in those patients who 
have not yet developed lung disease. Whilst gene therapy and other new 
treatments such as bilateral living lobar lung donation give our patients 
optimism for the future it is important to remember that the increase in 
survival is a result of good physiotherapy, nutrition, aggressive antibiotic use 
and an increase in our understanding of the disease. It is important that 
patients continue to be referred early to tertiary CF centres.

PMID: 11665504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Arch Cardiol Mex. 2001 Jul-Sep;71(3):214-20.

[Fast pathway for heart surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

Trevethan Cravioto S(1), Santibáñez F, Kuri Alfaro J, Chávez Rivera I, Martínez 
Ríos MA, Lorenzo Negrete JA, Altamira Mendoza P, González Beltrán C, Casanova 
JM, Flores Moya AL, Attie F.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cardiología gnacio Chávez, INCICH, Juan Badiano No. 1, 
14080 México, D.F. trevethan@cardiologia.org.mx

The increasing demographic and life expectancy rates, together with the 
vertiginous technological development during the last two decades, have raised 
the number of cardiac patients requiring surgical treatment. Therefore, several 
institutions have been forced to give priority to advanced or more serious cases 
and to postpone those that do not demand an urgent surgery. This analysis was 
made from June 15, 1999 to June 15, 2000 and demonstrates the results obtained 
from maintaining a fast track at the National Institute of Cardiology "Ignacio 
Chávez". This has favored the practice of surgeries in cases with noncomplex 
pathologies, null mortality, and low morbidity rates. The analysis also compares 
results from patients who had been subjected to surgery for the same type of 
pathologies but following the usual course of admittance and surgery scheduling, 
proving to be cost-efficient. It also demonstrates the high incidence of 
inter-auricular communication and the Von Willebrand disease that exist in our 
environment. Based on the results, we propose to maintain and increase this type 
of surgeries, addressing their limitations.

PMID: 11665657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Issue Brief (Commonw Fund). 2000 Sep;(412):1-7.

Living longer, staying well: promoting good health for older women.

Collins KS, Strumpf E.

Women are living longer than ever. A woman who is 65 today can, on average, 
expect to live another 19 years to age 84. Despite recognition of the essential 
role preventive care and healthy habits play in these later years, older women 
and their physicians often miss opportunities to promote good health. Medicare, 
which provides basic health insurance coverage for those 65 and older, does 
include coverage of many preventive services. But cost-sharing for many covered 
services -- as well as uncovered services such as prescription drugs -- creates 
financial hardship for many older women, particularly those living on low 
incomes. This issue brief, based on a new analysis of The Commonwealth Fund 1998 
Survey of Women's Health, provides insight into the gaps in preventive care that 
currently exist and the disparities in access to care found between lower- and 
higher-income older women. It also suggests steps that can be taken to improve 
older women's health and quality of life.

PMID: 11665697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Health Serv Res. 2001 Oct;36(5):885-909.

Evaluating the benefits of increasing measles immunization rates.

Zwanziger J(1), Szilagyi PG, Kaul P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, NY 14642, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the cost-effectiveness, expressed in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY), of increasing measles immunization rates.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY DESIGN: Published data were supplemented by expert opinion. 
We determined the cost savings and value of the health benefits from averting a 
single case of measles. Next we examined the U. S. data regarding the 
relationship between pre-school measles immunization and incidence rates. 
Finally, we calculated the cost-effectiveness of a program that would increase a 
locality's immunization rate to the point of disease elimination.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Averting a single case of measles, using "base case" 
assumptions, yields societal cost savings of $2,089 and an increase of 0.086 
QALYs. Using a very low discount rate increases the total benefits to $2,251 in 
societal cost savings and 0.150 QALYs in health benefits. In general, programs 
to raise measles immunization rates are not cost-effective, except possibly 
during an outbreak of the disease or in areas with very low immunization rates. 
The extremely low measles incidence rates in the mid-1990s result in such 
programs having extremely high costs per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Programs that are narrowly designed to increase immunization rates 
alone are not likely to be cost-effective. Yet these programs do have the 
potential to be cost-effective if the program design and evaluation also 
recognize the benefits associated with the primary and preventive care that can 
accompany immunizations. Such programs may also be cost-effective if they are 
components of a global eradication of measles.

PMCID: PMC1089266
PMID: 11666109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Oct;34(4):616-22. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.116107.

Long-term results of cryopreserved arterial allograft reconstruction in infected 
prosthetic grafts and mycotic aneurysms of the abdominal aorta.

Lesèche G(1), Castier Y, Petit MD, Bertrand P, Kitzis M, Mussot S, Besnard M, 
Cerceau O.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire et Thoracique, Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, 
France. guy.leseche@bjn-ap-hop-paris.fr

PURPOSE: This prospective, observational study determined the long-term outcome 
in patients with abdominal aortic infection (primary or prosthetic graft) who 
were treated with simultaneous aortic/graft excision and cryopreserved arterial 
allograft reconstruction.
METHODS: From April 1992 to March 2000, patients with abdominal aortic infection 
underwent complete or partial excision of the infected aorta/prosthetic graft 
and cryopreserved arterial allograft reconstruction. Arterial allografts were 
harvested from multiple organ donors and cryopreserved at -80 degrees C without 
rate-controlled freezing. The patients were observed for survival, limb salvage, 
persistence and/or recurrence of infection, and allograft patency. The results 
were calculated with life-table methods.
RESULTS: During the 8-year study period, 28 consecutive patients (27 men, 1 
woman; mean age, 64 years) underwent treatment for abdominal aortic infection 
(23 graft infections, including 7 graft-enteric fistulas and 5 primary aortic 
infections). Allograft reconstruction was performed as an emergency procedure in 
13 patients (46%). The mean follow-up period was 35.4 months (range, 6-101 
months). The overall treatment-related mortality rate was 17.8% (17% for graft 
infection, 20% for primary aortic infection). The overall 3-year survival was 
67%. There was no early or late amputation. There was no persistent or recurrent 
infection, and none of the patients received long-term (> 3 months) antibiotic 
therapy. Reoperation for allograft revision, excision, or replacement was 
necessary in four patients (17%) who were available for examination, with no 
reoperative perioperative death. The 3-year primary and secondary allograft 
patency rates were 81% and 96%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our experience with cryopreserved arterial allograft in the 
management of abdominal aortic infection suggests that this technique seems to 
be a useful option for treating one of the most dreaded vascular complications.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.116107
PMID: 11668314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Oct;34(4):661-7. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.117887.

Duplex scanning allows selective use of arteriography in the management of 
patients with severe lower leg arterial disease.

Koelemay MJ(1), Legemate DA, de Vos H, van Gurp AJ, Balm R, Reekers JA, Jacobs 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Until April 1997 we routinely performed intra-arterial digital 
subtraction angiography (iaDSA) in all patients with severe lower leg ischemia 
requiring intervention. After a comparative study of duplex scanning (DS), 
pulsegenerated runoff, and iaDSA of the lower leg arteries, we postulated that 
management could be based on DS/pulse-generated runoff in 59% of patients. We 
prospectively evaluated the safety of such a noninvasive workup strategy.
METHODS: All consecutive patients referred with severe lower leg ischemia 
between April 1997 and September 1998 were eligible. Management was based on DS 
with iaDSA being performed only on indication. Complications within 30 days and 
12- and 24-month patency, survival, and limb salvage rates were recorded and 
compared with historical controls.
RESULTS: A total of 125 limbs in 114 patients were evaluated (74% rest pain or 
tissue loss). In 97 (78%) of 125 limbs, management was based on DS. It comprised 
conservative treatment (n = 33, 0% after iaDSA), percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (n = 25, 16% iaDSA), femoropopliteal bypass graft (n = 29, 17% 
iaDSA), femorotibial bypass graft (n = 29, 62% iaDSA), and other surgical 
procedures (n = 8, 4% iaDSA). Overall, the mortality within 30 days was 4% 
(5/114), and 2-year survival was 83%. Two-year primary and secondary patency and 
limb salvage rates were 75%, 93%, and 93% after a femoropopliteal bypass 
operation, respectively. One-year primary and secondary patency and limb salvage 
rates were 35%, 73%, and 74%, respectively, after a femorocrural bypass 
operation. There were no differences in patient characteristics, indication for 
specific treatment, and immediate and intermediate term outcome between the 
study and reference population.
CONCLUSION: In a vascular unit with wide expertise in DS of the lower leg 
arteries, management of patients with severe lower leg ischemia can be based on 
DS in most patients without negative effects on clinical outcome within 30 days 
and at 2-years' follow-up.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.117887
PMID: 11668321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Oct;34(4):668-72. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.115810.

Endoscopically assisted in situ lower extremity bypass graft: a preliminary 
report of a new minimally invasive technique.

Suggs WD(1), Sanchez LA, Woo D, Lipsitz EC, Ohki T, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, New York, NY 10467, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Lower extremity arterial reconstructions with in situ greater 
saphenous vein (GSV) are an important component of limb salvage surgery. 
Initially, the procedure was performed through continuous skin incisions for 
side branch occlusion and valve lysis with a wound complication rate of 5% to 
25%. To decrease these complications, we used endoscopic GSV harvest equipment 
in 25 in situ vein bypass grafts in 25 patients performed over 24 months.
METHODS: The procedures were performed with three skin incisions: two for 
arterial access and a 2-cm incision above the knee to insert the Endopath device 
(Ethicon) to locate and clip the GSV side branches. After completion of the 
proximal anastomosis, the valves were lysed through the distal end of the vein 
with a flexible valvulotome. Completion cineangiography was performed to confirm 
side branch occlusion and evaluate the entire reconstruction. The results of 
this technique were compared with our last 25 in situ bypass grafts done with 
standard long incisions.
RESULTS: In the endoscopic group there was one (4%) minor wound complication 
(cellulitis). No postoperative arteriovenous fistulas were detected by means of 
duplex examination, and the average hospital stay was 6.2 +/- 1 days. One graft 
closed at 9 months as a result of distal vein hyperplasia, but the other grafts 
have remained patent, with follow-up from 6 to 30 months (mean, 18 months). 
Patients with the standard in situ bypass grafts had significantly (P < .05) 
more wound complications (20%) and longer average hospital stay (9.2 +/- 2 days) 
than the endoscopic group. Patency rates were comparable for both groups.
CONCLUSION: These results show that less invasive endoscopic in situ bypass 
grafting minimizes wound complications and reduces the need for hospitalization 
without decreasing patency or increasing operative time.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.115810
PMID: 11668322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Oct;34(4):685-93. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.117886.

Percutaneous transluminal revascularization for renal artery stenosis: Veterans 
Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System experience.

Yutan E(1), Glickerman DJ, Caps MT, Hatsukami T, Harley JD, Kohler TR, Davies 
MG.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery and Interventional Radiology, Seattle Division of 
the Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Washington, USA.

PURPOSE: The safety and efficacy of percutaneous transluminal intervention for 
renal artery stenosis is improving. This study evaluates the immediate and 
long-term anatomic and functional outcomes of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty and stenting for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in a Veterans 
Affairs population.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of records from patients who 
underwent renal artery angioplasty with or without stenting at the Veterans 
Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System between January 1990 and June 1999. 
Indications for intervention included hypertension (78%) and rising serum 
creatinine (78%). Seventy-six patients (74 men, average age of 67 years, range 
42-83 years) underwent 88 attempted interventions. Seventy-two percent of 
contralateral kidneys had significant disease (47% had a >60% stenosis; 16% were 
nonfunctioning or absent).
RESULTS: Of the 88 planned interventions, 86 were successfully performed with 
placement of 46 stents (52%). Technical success (defined by <30% residual 
stenosis) was achieved in 78 vessels (89%). The procedure-related complication 
rate was 5%. Patient mortality by life table analysis was 49% at 5 years. 
Assisted primary patency rate at 5 years was 100%. Primary and secondary 
restenosis rates were 37% +/- 8% and 31% +/- 8% at 5 years, respectively. 
Sixty-eight percent of patients treated for hypertension demonstrated clinical 
benefit (improved or cured hypertension). This clinical benefit was maintained 
in 52% of the patients at 5 years, as measured by life table analysis. Serum 
creatinine was lowered or maintained in 88% of the patients, but this clinical 
benefit was only maintained in 25% of patients at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Transluminal intervention for clinically symptomatic 
atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is technically successful and safe. There 
are excellent assisted-patency and low restenosis rates. There is immediate 
clinical benefit for most patients, as evidenced by improved control of 
hypertension and preservation of renal function. However, within 5 years the 
benefit is not maintained for either hypertension (50%) or renal function (20%). 
Therefore, although technically successful, functional outcomes after 
endoluminal intervention are not maintained in the long term.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.117886
PMID: 11668325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Sante Publique. 2001 Jun;13(2):137-49.

[Contribution of disability-free life expectancy indicators to the study of 
social inequities in health].

[Article in French]

Cambois E(1), Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Centre Val d'Aurelle, Parc Euromédecine, 34298 Montpellier 05.

In looking at increases in disability-free life expectancy we examine the scope 
and evolution of social inequalities in health. As early as the end of the 18th 
century, Moheau had already emphasised the differences in life expectancy 
according to profession but it wasn't until much later that official statistics 
could confirm them. Despite the growing concern related to this phenomenon, the 
data are lacking for tracking its evolution and understanding its causes. The 
indicators of disability-free life expectancy that we established for 
socio-professional groups allowed us to respond to certain outstanding 
questions. The results of this study are summarised in this article. They serve 
to re-open the debate around the problems involved in measuring social 
inequalities and their place in public health.

PMID: 11668804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Rheumatol. 2001 Oct;28(10):2315-9.

The effect of arthritis on working life expectancy.

Lacaille D(1), Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Research Centre of Canada. dlacaille@bc.arthritis.ca

OBJECTIVE: To measure the effect of arthritis and musculoskeletal conditions on 
working life expectancy.
METHODS: Cross sectional data from the 1994 Canadian National Population Health 
Survey (NPHS) were used to calculate and compare the working life expectancy of 
individuals who reported "arthritis or rheumatism" with that of the general 
population. Age and sex-specific workforce participation rates were calculated 
for the population reporting arthritis or rheumatism as a chronic condition, 
excluding back pain, and for the entire population surveyed. Age and 
sex-specific population figures and mortality data were obtained from annual 
estimates produced by Statistics Canada. Working life expectancy was estimated 
by constructing multiple-decrement life tables for the total and for the 
arthritis and rheumatism populations.
RESULTS: The NPHS surveyed 22,000 households, yielding a sample size of 58,439 
individuals. The percentage of the population aged 15 to 65 yrs who reported 
having arthritis or rheumatism was 8.9%. The percentage of persons employed for 
each group was reduced compared to the total population, by 3 to 23%. Working 
life expectancy of individuals with arthritis or rheumatism was reduced by 4.19 
+/- 0.02 yrs (mean +/- SE) for men and 3.12 +/- 0.01 yrs for women at age 15 (p 
< 0.001 for both), with a persistent reduction through all age groups. Working 
life expectancy of men at age 15 was 37.42 +/- 0.01 yrs for the population with 
arthritis or rheumatism compared to 41.62 +/- 0.01 yrs for the total population; 
for women it was 31.06 +/- 0.01 and 34.19 +/- 0.001 yrs for both groups, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The working life expectancy of people with arthritis and 
musculoskeletal conditions is significantly reduced compared to the general 
Canadian population.

PMID: 11669175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2001;7(9):495-502. doi: 
10.1053/bbmt.2001.v7.pm11669216.

A high-dose pulse steroid regimen for controlling active chronic 
graft-versus-host disease.

Akpek G(1), Lee SM, Anders V, Vogelsang GB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematologic Malignancies/BMT, The Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, 
Baltimore 21231, USA. gakpek@jhmi.edu

Corticosteroids remain essential for controlling active chronic 
graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD). However, the optimum dose and administration 
schedule is unknown. We have reviewed our results in 61 patients with severe 
refractory cGVHD who were treated with a high-dose pulse steroid regimen (PS) 
consisting of methylprednisolone at 10 mg/kg per day for 4 consecutive days, 
with subsequent tapering doses. After 4 days, all patients received a course of 
additional immunosuppressive therapy. The median age of the 56 patients who were 
evaluable for response was 32 years (range, 0.2-57 years). Patients had failed a 
median of 2 (range, 1-5) treatments prior to the PS. The median follow-up for 45 
surviving patients after PS was 1.5 years. The probability of survival at 1 year 
and 2 years after PS was 88% (95% confidence interval [CI], 76%-95%) and 81% 
(95% CI, 65%-91%), respectively. Twenty-seven patients (48%) showed a major 
response to PS with substantial improvement of cGVHD manifestations, including 
softening of the skin, increased range of motion, and improved performance 
status; 15 patients (27%) showed a minor response, defined as improvement in 
some but not all symptoms of cGVHD. Of the 42 responders, 21 (50%) had 
progression of their cGVHD afterwards. The median time to progression was 1.9 
years. The probability of progression at 1 and 2 years after PS was 36% (95% CI, 
23%-53%) and 54% (95% CI, 38%-71%), respectively. The probability of progression 
at 1 year was 25% (95% CI, 12%-47%) and 55% (95% CI, 32%-81%) for patients who 
had major and minor response, respectively (hazard ratio, 2.13). Ten of the 42 
responders (24%) were able to discontinue all systemic immunosuppressive 
treatments. The probability of discontinuation at 1 and 2 years after PS was 9% 
(95% CI, 3%-25%) and 27% (95% CI, 15%-48%), respectively. The treatment was well 
tolerated with no serious adverse events. Our results suggest that PS is a 
well-tolerated regimen for achieving rapid clinical response in the majority of 
patients with cGVHD who failed on multiple previous therapies. Further studies 
are warranted to maintain the efficacy of this regimen by combining with new 
active agents in cGVHD.

DOI: 10.1053/bbmt.2001.v7.pm11669216
PMID: 11669216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2001;7(9):503-12. doi: 
10.1053/bbmt.2001.v7.pm11669217.
