
CD31 mismatching affects marrow transplantation outcome.

Grumet FC(1), Hiraki DD, Brown BWM, Zehnder JL, Zacks ES, Draksharapu A, Parnes 
J, Negrin RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University, California, USA. 
grumet@stanford.edu

Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) complicating allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) is often attributed to mismatched minor histocompatibility 
antigens (mHags), which are poorly defined in humans. CD31 is a candidate human 
mHag relevant to acute GVHD, but reports disagree about its level of 
significance, the role of HLA restriction, and the relative importance of 
different polymorphic codons within the molecule. We therefore examined in 
greater detail the impact of CD31-matching on BMT outcome in a prospective study 
from a single institution. Samples of recipient and donor DNA were collected 
pretransplantation for all patients receiving unmanipulated bone marrow from an 
HLA-identical sibling over a 45-month period at our institution. CD31 DNA typing 
of alleles at the 3 polymorphic codons 125 (L or V), 563 (N or S), and 670 (R or 
G) was performed for 118 patient-donor pairs plus 2 additional pairs who had 
codon 125 typing only. Donor-recipient CD31 nonidentity was tested for 
correlation with BMT clinical outcome measures of severe acute GVHD, chronic 
GVHD, relapse, and survival. Gene frequencies of approximately 0.5 for each 
allele at all 3 codons were comparable to previous reports. Because complete 
association was seen for 563N with 670G and for 563S with 670R, nonidentity for 
those codons was analyzed as a single genetic marker designated codon 563/670. 
Donor-recipient CD31 nonidentity was a significant risk factor for overall 
survival, both at codon 563/670 (hazard ratio [hr] = 2.58, P = .005) and at 
codon 125 (hr = 1.07, P = .036). Similar results held for disease-free survival. 
Nonidentity at codon 563/670 was also a significant risk factor (odds ratio [OR] 
= 11.15, P = .011) for severe (grades III, IV) versus no (grade 0) acute GVHD. 
Nonidentity at codon 125 posed less but still significant risk (OR = 9.30, P = 
.030). When the comparison group without severe acute GVHD was expanded to 
include grade I as well as grade 0 patients, the risk from CD31 nonidentity 
increased for both codon 563/670 (OR = 12.31, P = .010) and codon 125 (OR = 
11.24, P = .011). CD31 nonidentity remained a significant independent risk 
factor for survival and for severe acute GVHD when tested in multivariate 
analysis with the covariates of adulthood, recipient-donor sex difference, 
ethnic group, disease, pretransplantation risk category, HLA-A2 type, B44-like 
types, and GVHD prophylactic regimen. CD31 nonidentity showed a trend but failed 
to achieve statistical significance as a risk factor for relapse and for chronic 
GVHD. In conclusion, donor-recipient CD31 nonidentity is a significant risk 
factor for survival and for severe acute GVHD in HLA-identical sibling BMT. The 
stronger associations with codon 563/670 suggest that polymorphism may be more 
important than the linked polymorphism at codon 125.

DOI: 10.1053/bbmt.2001.v7.pm11669217
PMID: 11669217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2001 Sep-Oct;16(5):653-8.

Managing the posterior mandible of partially edentulous patients with short, 
porous-surfaced dental implants: early data from a clinical trial.

Deporter D(1), Pilliar RM, Todescan R, Watson P, Pharoah M.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Faculty of Dentistry, Ontario, Canada. 
douglas.deporter@utoronto.ca

Forty-eight Endopore dental implants were placed in the posterior mandibles of 
24 partially edentulous patients. Seventeen of these implants replaced premolar 
teeth, while 31 replaced molars. Only 7-mm and 9-mm implants were used, and the 
majority of prosthetic restorations (83%) were single crowns. After a mean 
functional time of 32.6 months (range, 8.2 to 50.3 months), the implant survival 
rate was 100% and assessment of available radiographic data showed minimal to no 
crestal bone loss.

PMID: 11669247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2001 Sep-Oct;16(5):731-6.

A prospective study of treatment of severely resorbed maxillae with narrow 
nonsubmerged implants: results after 1 year of loading.

Hallman M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Gävle County Hospital, Gävle, 
Sweden. mats.hallman@lg.se

The aim of the present study was to evaluate the use of reduced-diameter 
implants as an alternative to bone grafting for treatment of patients with 
severely resorbed maxillae. Forty patients (25 females, 15 males, mean age of 57 
years, range 19 to 86) with insufficient bone volume for placement of 
standard-size implants in the maxilla (31 totally edentulous) were treated with 
3.3-mm-diameter implants (ITI, titanium plasma-sprayed solid screws). 
Augmentation was considered for all patients because of lack of sufficient bone 
volume. Preoperative radiographic examination showed that in all cases, the 
height of the alveolar crest with a width of 4 mm was less than 10 mm. A total 
of 182 implants with a length of 8 to 12 mm were placed. All but 3 patients 
planned for overdenture treatment received fixed prostheses or single crowns (n 
= 3). One implant (8 mm long) was lost 1 month after placement, providing a 
survival rate of 99.4% after 1 year of loading. Since 4 implants with 
peri-implantitis were successfully treated and 1 implant left as a "sleeper" 
because of malposition, the cumulative success rate was 96.4%. The mean marginal 
bone resorption at baseline was 0.14 +/- 0.67 mm (range 0 to 6 mm). After 1 year 
of loading the mean resorption was 0.35 +/- 1.05 mm (range 0 to 7 mm); 4.8% of 
the implants had marginal bone resorption of more than 2 mm.

PMID: 11669256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(5):566-73. doi: 10.1080/028418601750444097.

A Swedish study of chemoradiation in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.

Stockeld D(1), Tennvall J, Wagenius G, Albertsson M, Backman L, Brodin O, 
Cwikiel M, Granström L, Gustafsson G, Gustavsson S, Hambraeus G, Lewensohn R, 
Sjöstedt S, Strander H, Aberg B, Fagerberg J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Danderyd Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. 
stockeld@ebox.tninet.se

This multicenter study describes the development of a chemoradiation protocol 
for the treatment of non-metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. 
Eighty patients were treated with three courses of chemotherapy (cisplatinum and 
5-fluorouracil) with concomitant radiotherapy (40 Gy) during the last two 
courses of chemotherapy. Esophagectomy was performed, when feasible. If no 
operation was performed, patients were planned to receive a target dose of 64 
Gy. Toxicity was mainly attributable to hematological impairment and led to two 
adjustments of the treatment protocol (addition of filgrastim and lowering of 
the 5-fluorouracil dose). These changes made it possible to administer the 
planned treatment in a gradually higher proportion of patients (13/23 [57%] 
before changes of treatment compared with 30/36 [83%] after changes). 
Treatment-related mortality was 3.75% (3 patients, associated with leucopenic 
septicemia after chemotherapy). Fifty-four patients were resected. No per- or 
postoperative mortality was encountered. The complete response (pathological CR) 
rate in operated patients was 46% (27/59 patients) after chemoradiation. In the 
whole series the CR rate (including clinical CR for non-resected patients) was 
44%. With a minimum follow-up of 37 months, the 3-year survival for the whole 
group was 31% compared with 57% for the CR patients. Total 5-year survival thus 
far (July 1999) is 26%.

DOI: 10.1080/028418601750444097
PMID: 11669327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(5):574-81. doi: 10.1080/028418601750444105.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus conventional radiotherapy or accelerated 
hyperfractionation in stage III and IV nasopharyngeal carcinoma--a phase II 
study.

El-Weshi A(1), Khafaga Y, Allam A, Mosseri V, Ibrahim E, El-Serafi M, El-Badawi 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Institute of Cairo, Egypt. 
elweshiamr@yahoo.com

A prospective phase II trial was initiated in previously untreated patients with 
locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The goal was to achieve 
improvement in locoregional control, disease-free interval and overall survival 
using induction chemotherapy and to compare conventional fractionation (CF) with 
an accelerated hyperfractionation (AHF) regimen. Fifty patients were treated (5 
AJCC Stage III, 45 Stage IV) with induction chemotherapy consisting of two 
cycles of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil. Patients were then randomized between CF 
and AHF therapy. A clinical response to induction chemotherapy was reported in 
86% of patients prior to radiotherapy (44% complete response, 42% partial 
response). Patients with complete or major partial responses to induction 
chemotherapy had a significantly better 5-year overall survival (60%) and 
disease-free interval (59%) than those with no response or minor partial 
response (15% and 18% p = 0.009 and 0.0009). Acute radiation reactions were more 
pronounced in the AHF group (p = 0.0002), and the incidence of late normal 
tissue injury was more frequent (p = 0.08). At 5 years, the locoregional control 
rate was higher in the AHF arm (76%) than in the CF group (54%), but the 
difference was not significant (HR, 0.52; 95%, Cl, 0.15-2.83; p = 0.186). With a 
median follow-up period of 55 months (range 4-120), the 5-year disease-free 
interval and overall survival rates were more favorable in the AHF group than in 
the CF group, but the differences were not significant (59% and 54% vs. 34% and 
36%, respectively, HR for disease-free interval = 0.71; 95% CI, 0.27-1.88; 
p=0.198 and HR for overall survival = 0.81; 95% CI, 0.37-1.78; p=0.433). The 
overall treatment failure rate was 48%. Locoregional failures occurred in 12 
patients (24%) and the incidence of distant metastases reached 30%. Response to 
induction chemotherapy is strongly predictive for locoregional control, 
disease-free interval and overall survival. Accelerated hyperfractionation was 
associated with high incidence of acute and late toxicity without significant 
improvement in locoregional control rate. The optimal chemotherapy dose and 
sequencing with radiotherapy needs to be investigated in future studies. Distant 
metastases remain the main cause of treatment failure in NPC.

DOI: 10.1080/028418601750444105
PMID: 11669328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(5):582-7. doi: 10.1080/028418601750444114.

A feasibility study using three-dimensional conformal boost technique in locally 
advanced carcinoma of the nasopharynx.

Kim GE(1), Lim J, Park HC, Keum KC, Kim YB, Moon SR, Lee CG, Seong J, Suh CO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Yonsei Cancer Center, Yonsei University, 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. gekim@yumc.yonsei.ac.kr

To investigate the feasibility and efficacy of dose escalation using 
three-dimensional (3-D) conformal boost technique, 21 patients with stage III or 
IV nasopharyngeal cancer were enrolled in a prospective protocol. All patients 
with node metastases initially received external radiotherapy by conventional 
technique up to 70.2 Gy, followed by 3-D conformal radiotherapy (3-D CRT) to the 
boost part up to 79.2 Gy with 9 Gy increments (daily fraction of 1.8 Gy for 5 
days). A modified technique with the same dose escalation of 9 Gy using 3-D CRT 
was applied to 7 patients without node metastases, who were treated by 
conventional technique up to 54 Gy, followed by 3-D CRT to boost up to a basic 
dose of 70.2 Gy, and then finally with dose escalation of 9 Gy. The protocol was 
relatively well tolerated by the majority of patients. Acute complications 
during the dose escalation schedule was low, with rare occurrences of grade 3 or 
4 toxicity. Although late radiation-induced complications also appeared limited, 
1 patient developed a temporal lobe necrosis and 2 patients suffered from 
sensory-neural hearing loss. There were no radiation-induced fatal 
complications. At a median follow-up of 48 months, only 3 patients experienced 
local failure and 2 patients developed distant metastases. The 5-year overall 
actuarial survival rate and recurrence-free survival rate for all patients were 
68% and 85%, respectively. On the basis of acceptable morbidity and encouraging 
treatment results, we conclude that the dose escalation in 9 Gy increments using 
a 3-D conformal boost technique is relatively safe and efficacious, enough to be 
used routinely for locally advanced nasopharyngeal cancers.

DOI: 10.1080/028418601750444114
PMID: 11669329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(5):588-92. doi: 10.1080/028418601750444123.

Preoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy for stage IIIA non-small cell lung 
cancer.

Ahn YC(1), Park K, Kim DY, Kim KM, Kim J, Shim YM, Lee KS, Han J, Kim HJ, Kwon 
J, Lim DH, Noh YJ, Lee JE, Huh SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. ycahn@smc.samsung.co.kr

Thirty-one patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were 
treated with preoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) followed by 
surgery. The treatment protocol could not be completed in eight patients. The 
acute hematologic toxicities of grade III or IV occurred in 48.4%, (15/31) after 
the first chemotherapy cycle, and in 39.1% (9/23) after the second cycle. The 
most common non-hematologic toxicity was radiation esophagitis. Surgery was 
attempted in 23 patients and successful in 22 patients (resection rate = 71.0%. 
Pathologic complete response and down-staging were achieved in 13.6% (3/22) and 
68.2% (15/22). The median survival period, 2-year overall survival, local 
control and disease-free survival rates of all 31 patients and of 22 patients 
who underwent surgery were 19 months, 37.2%, 49.1%, 35.5%, and 19 months, 43.2%, 
51.8%, 25.6%, respectively. On the basis of our observations, preoperative CCRT 
followed by surgery for stage IIIA NSCLC has resulted in outcomes comparable 
with those in previous reports.

DOI: 10.1080/028418601750444123
PMID: 11669330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Acta Oncol. 2001;40(5):644-52. doi: 10.1080/028418601750444213.

TP53 and p21WAF1/CIP1 behave differently in euploid versus aneuploid bladder 
tumours treated with radiotherapy.

Røtterud R(1), Skomedal H, Berner A, Danielsen HE, Skovlund E, Fosså SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Montebello, Oslo.

The aim of this study was to examine any relation between DNA ploidy and 
previously detected TP53 (p53) or p21WAF1/CIP1 expression in 94 patients with 
muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder and to 
associate these factors with survival. DNA ploidy was determined by image 
cytometry. In a subgroup of patients, the mutational status of the TP53 gene was 
assessed by temporal temperature gradient electrophoresis (TTGE) or 
perpendicular denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and subsequent 
sequencing. Significantly more aneuploid than euploid tumours showed TP53 
accumulation (p = 0.003). Patients with aneuploid tumours lived longer than 
patients with euploid tumours (p = 0.003). In the euploid, but not in the 
aneuploid group, TP53 and p21WAF1/CIP1 were associated with cancer-specific 
survival (p = 0.002 and 0.02, respectively). Patients with > 50% TP53 expression 
had the longest survival time. Mutation analyses showed acceptable concordance 
with TP53 expression. We conclude that DNA aneuploidy may confer increased 
radiosensitivity in bladder cancer patients and that TP53 accumulation may 
confer increased radiosensitivity, but its effect is detectable only in euploid 
tumours.

DOI: 10.1080/028418601750444213
PMID: 11669339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Child Neurol. 2001 Oct;16(10):775-7. doi: 10.1177/088307380101601015.

Multiple neuroendocrine disorder in Salla disease.

Grosso S(1), Berardi R, Farnetani MA, Margollicci M, Mancini MG, Morgese G, 
Balestri P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Siena, Italy.

Salla disease represents the slowly progressive adult form of the sialic acid 
storage diseases, a group of autosomal-recessive neurodegenerative disorders in 
which psychomotor development, ataxia, axial hypotonia, and spasticity in the 
lower limbs occur. No skeletal dysostosis or organomegaly is present, and life 
expectancy is normal. Short stature can also be observed. Progressive cerebral 
and cerebellar atrophy associated with dysmyelination and corpus callosum 
hypoplasia have been shown by magnetic resonance imaging studies. We report the 
first patient with Salla disease in whom combined growth hormone and 
gonadotropin deficiencies, hypothalamic pituitary in origin, have been 
demonstrated by neuroendocrine studies. We believe that the multiple 
neuroendocrine disorder may be the consequence of the abnormalities of common 
neuronal pathways regulating growth hormone and gonadotropin synthesis or 
secretion related to the brain storage of free sialic acid and/or to the 
neurodegenerative process occurring in Salla disease. Therefore, a complete 
endocrinologic evaluation of these patients is both warranted and useful.

DOI: 10.1177/088307380101601015
PMID: 11669356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Tumori. 2001 Jan-Feb;87(1):1-9. doi: 10.1177/030089160108700101.

The role of somatostatin and octreotide in bowel obstruction: pre-clinical and 
clinical results.

Ripamonti C(1), Panzeri C, Groff L, Galeazzi G, Boffi R.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation and Palliative Care Division, National Cancer Institute, 
Milan, Italy. ripamonti@istitutotumori.mi.it

Malignant bowel obstruction is a common complication in patients with advanced 
abdominal or pelvic cancer. Whereas surgery should be considered in all cases of 
malignant bowel obstruction, many advanced and terminal cancer patients are 
considered unfit for surgery. In such patients with a short life expectancy, 
gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, continuous and/or colicky 
pain, can be controlled by using a pharmacologic approach made up of analgesics, 
antiemetics and antisecretory drugs, without the use of a venting nasogastric 
tube. Among the antisecretory drugs, octreotide has been shown to reduce nausea 
and vomiting in bowel-obstructed patients owing to a reduction of 
gastrointestinal secretions, thus allowing in most patients removal of the 
nasogastric tube and the associated distress. Preclinical and clinical studies 
that demonstrated the role of somatostatin and octreotide in bowel obstruction 
are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160108700101
PMID: 11669548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Addiction. 2001 Sep;96(9):1267-78. doi: 10.1046/j.1360-0443.2001.96912676.x.

The cost-effectiveness of buprenorphine maintenance therapy for opiate addiction 
in the United States.

Barnett PG(1), Zaric GS, Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Resource Center, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care 
System, Menlo Park, CA, USA and the Department of Health Research and Policy, 
Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. paul.barnett@med.va.gov

Comment in
    Addiction. 2001 Oct;96(10):1515.
    Addiction. 2001 Oct;96(10):1515-7.
    Addiction. 2001 Oct;96(10):1517-8.

AIMS: To determine the cost-effectiveness of buprenorphine maintenance therapy 
for opiate addiction in the United States, particularly its effect on the HIV 
epidemic.
DESIGN: We developed a dynamic model to capture the effects of adding 
buprenorphine maintenance to the current opiate dependence treatment system. We 
evaluated incremental costs, including all health-care costs, and incremental 
effectiveness, measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of survival. We 
considered communities with HIV prevalence among injection drug users of 5% and 
40%. Because no price has been set in the United States for a dose of 
buprenorphine, we considered three prices per dose: $5, $15, and $30.
FINDINGS: If buprenorphine increases the number of individuals in maintenance 
treatment by 10%, but does not affect the number of individuals receiving 
methadone maintenance, the cost-effectiveness ratios for buprenorphine 
maintenance therapy are less than $45 000 per QALY gained for all prices, in 
both the low-prevalence and high-prevalence communities. If the same number of 
individuals enter buprenorphine maintenance (10% of the number currently in 
methadone), but half are injection drug users newly entering maintenance and 
half are individuals who switched from methadone to buprenorphine, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios in both communities are less than $45 000 per QALY 
gained for the $5 and $15 prices, and greater than $65 000 per QALY gained for 
the $30 price.
CONCLUSIONS: At a price of $5 or less per dose, buprenorphine maintenance is 
cost-effective under all scenarios we considered. At $15 per dose, it is 
cost-effective if its adoption does not lead to a net decline in methadone use, 
or if a medium to high value is assigned to the years of life lived by injection 
drug users and those in maintenance therapy. At $30 per dose, buprenorphine will 
be cost-effective only under the most optimistic modeling assumptions.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1360-0443.2001.96912676.x
PMID: 11672491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Antiviral Res. 2001 Nov;52(2):189-98. doi: 10.1016/s0166-3542(01)00184-x.

Management of hepatitis C in HIV-infected persons.

Rodríguez-Rosado R(1), Pérez-Olmeda M, García-Samaniego J, Soriano V.

Author information:
(1)Service of Infectious Diseases, Hospital Carlos III, Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, C/Nueva Zelanda 54, 4th B, 28035 Madrid, Spain.

The life expectancy of HIV-infected persons has extended significantly since the 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapies. Although classical 
opportunistic infections are now rarely seen, the toxicity of antiretroviral 
drugs as well as liver disease caused by hepatitis viruses represent an 
increasing cause of morbidity and mortality among HIV-positive persons. Since 
the rate of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is high among HIV carriers (up to 
75% among intravenous drug users), HCV/HIV coinfection is widely prevalent. 
Predisposing liver damage favors a higher rate of hepatotoxicity of 
antiretroviral drugs, which can limit the benefit of HIV treatment in some 
individuals. Overall, severe hepatotoxicity appears in around 10% of subjects 
who began triple combinations including either protease inhibitors or 
non-nucleosides. The progression to cirrhosis seems to occur faster in the 
setting of HIV infection, and conversely recent data demonstrate that HCV 
infection can accelerate the progression to AIDS in HIV-positive persons. 
Although clinicians have been reluctant to treat hepatitis C in HIV-infected 
people, this therapeutic nihilism is unwarranted. The availability of new more 
successful regimens to treat hepatitis C, in particular using the new pegylated 
forms of interferon in combination with ribavirin, open new hopes for the care 
of HIV-HCV-coinfected persons.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-3542(01)00184-x
PMID: 11672829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Nov;36(10):1599-607. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00152-8.

Research on aging in Portugal.

Resende Oliveira C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Centre for Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Coimbra, Rua Larga, 3004 504 Coimbra, Portugal. 
catarina@cnc.cj.uc.pt

This review presents an analysis of the current state of gerontological and 
geriatric research in Portugal, and highlights the need for a national consensus 
and funding for age-related research projects. Such efforts must be 
multidisciplinary, since the process of aging encompasses biological, 
psychological, social, economic and cultural aspects. Demographic studies reveal 
a growing population of elderly in Portugal as a result of a healthier 
population in general. This increased life expectancy, however, is accompanied 
by a parallel increase in degenerative pathologies and care costs among the 
elderly. Preventive medicine is an important tool to reduce health care costs 
and avoid or abbreviate suffering from age-related syndromes, but such projects 
on a national basis neither exists, nor does gerontology or geriatrics receive 
funding to perform needed research. Consequently, research on aging depends on 
the initiative of individual investigators who, without funding or cohesive 
programs, can do little to improve the low scientific output in this area. The 
implementation of a national program, that can establish health care policy and 
priorities as well as fund the necessary research, will permit organized 
cooperation among the different scientific disciplines related to aging. This is 
a crucial step toward improving present knowledge, ensuring application of 
experimental and statistical results to the clinical care of the aging 
population, and attract young investigators to this field.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00152-8
PMID: 11672982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Lancet. 2001 Oct 13;358(9289):1248. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06390-5.

WHO report aims to increase understanding of mental health.

Kapp C.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06390-5
PMID: 11675076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Lancet. 2001 Oct 13;358(9289):1251-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06350-4.

Economics of drug treatment: for which patients is it costeffective to lower 
cholesterol?

Jönsson B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Box 6501, S-113 
83, Stockholm, Sweden. hebj@hhs.se

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Mar 9;359(9309):892-3.

Today's society places a great emphasis on value for money, so medical 
interventions must not only be shown to be effective but also be proved to be 
costeffective. Drug treatment is no exception. In health economics, 
costeffectiveness is calculated differently depending on the indication and the 
perspective. For cholesterol-lowering drugs (as an example) there is a 
difference between primary and secondary intervention. In primary prevention, 
the cut off value for absolute risk when treatment is costeffective varies with 
age and sex, but in secondary prevention, although treatment is costeffective 
for all groups of patients, costeffectiveness varies with age, sex, cholesterol 
concentration, and other risk factors. There are three complementary approaches 
to economic assessment of secondary prevention-analysis of the whole population, 
subgroup analysis, and modelling.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06350-4
PMID: 11675082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Oncologist. 2001;6(5):435-40. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.6-5-435.

Changes in finances, insurance, employment, and lifestyle among persons 
diagnosed with hairy cell leukemia.

Hounshell J(1), Tomori C, Newlin R, Knox K, Rundhaugen L, Tallman M, Bennett C.

Author information:
(1)VA Chicago Health Care System-Lakeside Division, Chicago, Illinois 60611, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: While being cured of cancer generally leads to a life expectancy 
similar to that of the general population, the extent to which other aspects of 
life are affected is unknown. To address these concerns, patients with hairy 
cell leukemia, a cancer with a very high cure rate, were queried about 
employment, insurance, finances, and lifestyle during and following their 
treatment.
METHODS: Study participants (n = 31) ranging in age from 24 to 73 years at the 
time of diagnosis (median, 49 years) were surveyed regarding changes in health 
and life insurance, employment, out-of-pocket medical costs, exercise, diet, and 
use of mental and alternative health services that occurred during or following 
hairy cell leukemia treatment.
RESULTS: Following a diagnosis of hairy cell leukemia, 61.3% of the respondents 
paid for some aspect of medical care in spite of having health insurance 
coverage at the time of diagnosis. Four respondents (12.9%) could not obtain 
health insurance following treatment, and the occupational choices of several 
individuals or their spouses were based in large part on a desire to obtain or 
maintain comprehensive health insurance. Of the 13 individuals who attempted to 
purchase life insurance, 10 had difficulty obtaining a policy or were denied 
coverage. Lifestyle changes were noted by 40% to 60% of respondents, and 
included reports of more frequent exercise, adoption of a healthier diet, and 
having a greater appreciation for life, loved ones, and physical health.
CONCLUSIONS: While hairy cell leukemia is a highly curable malignancy, cancer 
survivors' lives and lifestyles are altered substantially after receiving 
treatment for the illness.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.6-5-435
PMID: 11675521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2001 Oct 11;413(6856):625-7. doi: 10.1038/35098072.

The earliest known fully quadrupedal sirenian.

Domning DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Howard University, Washington DC 20059, USA. 
ddomning@fac.howard.edu

Modern seacows (manatees and dugongs; Mammalia, Sirenia) are completely aquatic, 
with flipperlike forelimbs and no hindlimbs. Here I describe Eocene fossils from 
Jamaica that represent nearly the entire skeleton of a new genus and species of 
sirenian--the most primitive for which extensive postcranial remains are known. 
This animal was fully capable of locomotion on land, with four well-developed 
legs, a multivertebral sacrum, and a strong sacroiliac articulation that could 
support the weight of the body out of water as in land mammals. Aquatic 
adaptations show, however, that it probably spent most of its time in the water. 
Its intermediate form thus illustrates the evolutionary transition between 
terrestrial and aquatic life. Similar to contemporary primitive cetaceans, it 
probably swam by spinal extension with simultaneous pelvic paddling, unlike 
later sirenians and cetaceans, which lost the hindlimbs and enlarged the tail to 
serve as the main propulsive organ. Together with fossils of later sirenians 
elsewhere in the world, these new specimens document one of the most marked 
examples of morphological evolution in the vertebrate fossil record.

DOI: 10.1038/35098072
PMID: 11675784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2001 Sep 20;90(38):1645-52.

[Radiotherapy and bisphosphonate therapy in bone metastases of prostate 
carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Seegenschmiedt MH(1), Oppenkowski R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Radioonkologie, Strahlentherapie & Nuklearmedizin, Alfried Krupp 
von Bohlen und Halbach Krankenhaus, Essen, Deutschland.

Prostate carcinoma patients with bone metastases do not have a dismal prognosis 
or short life expectancy by itself. Thus, often palliative therapeutic measures 
are required with respect of a life span beyond one year, especially if no 
lyphogenic or visceral metastases have developed. Similarly to patients with 
breast carcinoma the metastatic bone lesions in prostate carcinoma patients have 
mixed osteolytic and osteoblastic features with increased metabolic bone 
turn-over. This is the mechanism, in which bisphosphonates interfere and can 
prevent the pathologic bone resorption by blocking osteoclast activity. This 
improves not only painful clinical conditions but also reduces the rate of 
skeletal related events (SRE = hypercalcemia, bone fracture, myelon compression, 
surgery or radiotherapy to bone etc.). Generally, clinical studies suggest the 
benefit of bisphosphonates for patients with bone metastases and good life 
expectancy. For patients with prostate carcinoma large controlled studies have 
to consolidate this potential benefit.

PMID: 11675918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Nov;53(10):1275-85. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00409-3.

A psychometric analysis of the measurement level of the rating scale, time 
trade-off, and standard gamble.

Cook KF(1), Ashton CM, Byrne MM, Brody B, Geraci J, Giesler RB, Hanita M, 
Souchek J, Wray NP.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
karonc@bcm.tmc.edu

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2003 Feb;56(4):895-7.

A fundamental assumption of utility-based analyses is that patient utilities for 
health states can be measured on an equal-interval scale. This assumption, 
however, has not been widely examined. The objective of this study was to assess 
whether the rating scale (RS), standard gamble (SG), and time trade-off (TTO) 
utility elicitation methods function as equal-interval level scales. We wrote 
descriptions of eight prostate-cancer-related health states. In interviews with 
patients who had newly diagnosed, advanced prostate cancer, utilities for the 
health states were elicited using the RS, SG, and TTO methods. At the time of 
the study, 77 initial and 73 follow-up interviews had. been conducted with a 
consecutive sample of 77 participants. Using a Rasch model, the boundaries 
(Thurstone Thresholds) between four equal score sub-ranges of the raw utilities 
were mapped onto an equal-interval logit scale. The distance between adjacent 
thresholds in logit units was calculated to determine whether the raw utilities 
were equal-interval. None of the utility scales functioned as interval-level 
scales in our sample. Therefore, since interval-level estimates are assumed in 
utility-based analyses, doubt is raised regarding the validity of findings from 
previous analyses based on these scales. Our findings need to be replicated in 
other contexts, and the practical impact of non-interval measurement on 
utility-based analyses should be explored. If cost-effectiveness analyses are 
not found to be robust to violations of the assumption that utilities are 
interval, serious doubt will be cast upon findings from utility-based analyses 
and upon the wisdom of expending millions in research dollars on utility-based 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00409-3
PMID: 11676400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Arch Dis Child. 2001 Nov;85(5):442. doi: 10.1136/adc.85.5.442a.

Life expectancy in cerebral palsy.

Strauss D, Shavelle R.

Comment on
    Arch Dis Child. 2000 Dec;83(6):468-74.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.85.5.442a
PMCID: PMC1718957
PMID: 11676432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Healthy People 2010 Stat Notes. 2001 Aug;(21):1-11. doi:
10.1037/e583762012-001.

Summary measures of population health: methods for calculating healthy life 
expectancy.

Molla MT, Wagener DK, Madans JH.

This report is one of several appearing as Healthy People Statistical Notes that 
evaluate methodological issues pertaining to summary measures. Summary measures 
of population health are statistics that combine mortality and morbidity to 
represent overall population health in a single number--in this report, health 
expectancy measures. This report presents a comprehensive discussion of the 
methods for calculation and methodologic issues related to the interpretation of 
healthy life expectancy. These measures combine both mortality and morbidity 
using an abridged life-table procedure. Data from the National Center for Health 
Statistics and other sources will be used to illustrate the calculation of the 
statistics and the associated statistical tests.

DOI: 10.1037/e583762012-001
PMID: 11676467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Healthy People 2010 Stat Notes. 2001 Sep;(22):1-13. doi:
10.1037/e583752012-001.

Summary measures of population health: addressing the first goal of healthy 
people 2010, improving health expectancy.

Wagener DK, Molla MT, Crimmins EM, Pamuk E, Madans JH.

This report is one of several Healthy People Statistical Notes that evaluate 
methodological issues pertaining to summary measures - statistics that combine 
mortality and morbidity data to represent overall population health in a single 
number. This report evaluates the consequences of changes in the components of 
health expectancy measures (i.e., mortality or morbidity) on the overall 
measure. Any activity limitation is used as a morbidity measure. Simulations are 
used to evaluate the impacts of reducing 1995 age-specific mortality or activity 
limitation rates by 5, 10, 25, and 50 percent at all ages. Then it is limited to 
ages under 25 years, 25 -64 years, and over 64 years. The impact of completely 
eliminating mortality or activity limitation for the younger age groups is also 
examined. In general, reducing morbidity rates results in greater changes than 
the same percent reduction in death rates. The same proportional reduction in 
age-specific rates for either mortality or morbidity has a greater impact if it 
occurs at older ages. Reducing mortality results in a greater change in life 
expectancy than in health expectancy and a decline in the proportion of life 
lived in healthy states. Reducing morbidity increases both health expectancy and 
the proportion of life lived in healthy states. Simultaneous reductions in 
mortality and morbidity have additive effects on health expectancy.

DOI: 10.1037/e583752012-001
PMID: 11676468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Neurol Sci. 2001 Oct 15;191(1-2):3-9. doi: 10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00630-x.

The epidemiology of motor neuron diseases: a review of recent studies.

Worms PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Department, Sanofi-Synthelabo Recherche, 31 av. P.V. Couturier, 
92225, Bagneux, France.

As the incidence and mortality rates of motor neuron diseases (MNDs) have been 
reported to increase steadily over the 1950s-1980s decades, we compared the 
results of the most recent studies (1990s decade) with the ones reported for 
those earlier periods. The relevant literature was retrieved on a keyword basis 
from online medical and official death statistics databases. Fifteen European 
and North American studies were analyzed, for comparison with the results 
reported in review papers. The 1990s incidence and mortality rates of MND 
average at 1.89 per 100,000/year and 1.91 per 100,000/year, respectively, thus 
yielding increases of 46% and 57% over the 1960s-1970s decades, respectively. 
This increase appears mainly due to Southern Europe countries, to female gender 
and to patients aged 75 years and over.Thus, the results of this analysis (i) 
confirm that the incidence of, and mortality from, MNDs continued to increase 
during the 1990s and, (ii) suggest that this increase could be partly due to 
increased life expectancy. Other factors might also contribute, such as better 
diagnosis since El Escorial criteria, and better accuracy of death certificate 
collection.However, a real increase in the incidence of MNDs, possibly related 
to environmental factors, cannot be excluded.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00630-x
PMID: 11676986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Neurol Sci. 2001 Oct 15;191(1-2):95-102. doi:
10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00618-9.

The cost utility analysis of riluzole for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis in the UK.

Tavakoli M(1), Malek M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, University of St. Andrews, St. Katharine's West, 
The Scores, Fife, KY16 9AL Scotland, St. Andrews, UK. mt@st-and.ac.uk

This study reports the results of a long-term economic evaluation of riluzole in 
the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) versus best supportive care 
in the United Kingdom. The aim was to assess the cost implications of the life 
extension offered by riluzole through cost utility analysis based on patient 
assessed utilities of different health states.A Markov model was used to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of Rilutek with best supportive care. Transition 
possibilities and the distribution of patients by health states were taken from 
a cohort of 954 patients drawn from a large randomised, double blind, 
placebo-controlled, multicentre trial between 1992 and 1994 in the first 18 
months and used to extrapolate the model to assess the long-term prolongation of 
life. Four distinct health states were used corresponding to mild, moderate, 
severe and terminal states. Costs associated with Rilutek included the 
acquisition cost and bi-monthly monitoring for raised ALT levels. Patient 
assessed utilities were collected by use of the standard gamble technique. 77 
patients were entered into the study from two centres (King's, London and 
Preston) in the UK. Mean utilities for each of the health states was generated 
and, given that the data were skewed, a sensitivity analysis was undertaken with 
the median utility values. The implications of life extension offered by 
riluzole versus best supportive care were assessed both in terms of life 
extension projected and quality adjusted survival using patient based utilities. 
Using the Markov model and the transitional probabilities the base case cost per 
life year gained was estimated at pound sterlings 14,370 and applying Standard 
Gamble utility scores, the base case cost per QALY was assessed as pound 
sterlings 20,904. The effect of discounting costs and benefits altered the cost 
effectiveness analysis to pound sterlings 17,760 per life year gained while a 
sensitivity analysis around median or mean scores for the utility weight 
resulted in a range of pound sterlings 19,020 to pound sterlings 25,794 per QALY 
gained.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(01)00618-9
PMID: 11676998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Therapie. 2001 Jul-Aug;56(4):421-5.

[Bisprolol in heart failure: efficacy and costs in a French setting according to 
CIBIS II].

[Article in French]

Lévy P(1), Mérot JL, Lechat P, Lévy E, Bogillot O.

Author information:
(1)LEGOS, Université Paris-Dauphine, Place du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny, 
75775 Paris, France.

After a significant mortality benefit with bisoprolol in heart failure was 
demonstrated in CIBIS-II, an economic evaluation has been performed in 
cost-effectiveness terms. Average direct costs per patient were based on 
clinical data from 231 French patients, and measured in the perspective of the 
French National Health Insurance, effectiveness being expressed in terms of life 
days gained per patient. The extra cost of bisoprolol treatment and follow-up 
(averaging FF 1300 per 1.3 years) is outweighed by the reduction in 
hospitalization costs (representing a saving of FF 10,500 per patient) and other 
medication costs. Finally, bisoprolol therapy induces benefits in terms of both 
cost and survival: on average FF 9500 and 11 life days per patient. Sensitivity 
analyses confirm these results.

PMID: 11677866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. West Indian Med J. 2001 Jun;50(2):95-9.

Ageing--a new challenge to health care in the new millennium.

Eldemire-Shearer D.

PMID: 11677923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Acta Otolaryngol. 2001 Sep;121(6):679-88. doi: 10.1080/00016480152583610.

The development of the middle ear in neonatal chinchillas II. Two weeks to 
adulthood.

Hsu RW(1), Margolis RH, Schachern PA, Javel E.

Author information:
(1)Otitis Media Clinical Research Center and Department of Otolaryngology, 
University of Minnesota School of Medicine, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

Studies of auditory function in the human neonate indicate adult-like hearing 
sensitivity, mature cochlear function and well-developed responses in the 
auditory pathway. Paradoxically, measurements of middle ear function are 
characterized by responses that would be interpreted as abnormal in older 
subjects. Consequently, there is not an accepted clinical test for middle ear 
disease in the newborn population. Like human neonates, chinchillas have normal 
hearing sensitivity at birth, but middle ear function tested by multifrequency 
tympanometry is abnormal compared to the adult. A previous study from our 
laboratory indicated that the newborn chinchilla middle ear is free of 
mesenchyme and other debris. Over the first 2 weeks of life there were no 
significant changes in tympanic membrane thickness and diameter, tympanic 
membrane to promontory distance and stapes footplate length. There were small 
changes in mastoid bulla area and perimeter and in mastoid bulla bone thickness. 
The most striking difference between the newborn and adult temporal bone was in 
bone composition, the newborn bone having a less dense, spongy appearance. 
Impedance characteristics of the newborn chinchilla ear, measured by 
multifrequency tympanometry, were abnormal relative to adult animals and did not 
change over the first 2 weeks of life. This investigation is an extension of the 
previous study, designed to better understand the relationship between middle 
ear function, hearing sensitivity and the structural changes of the newborn 
chinchilla middle ear. Twenty animals, aged 2-8 weeks, were studied. Additional 
adult animals were used as controls. Middle ear function was assessed by a 
wideband reflectance impedance system. Hearing sensitivity was measured by 
auditory brainstem response in 2- and 8-week-old animals. Structural 
characteristics of the temporal bone were analyzed using histopathologic 
preparations. There was an orderly progression in middle ear impedance and 
reflectance characteristics as the chinchilla ear matured from 2 to 8 weeks of 
age. At 8 weeks of age, impedance and reflectance patterns approached, but did 
not match, those of the adult animal. Hearing sensitivity was unchanged 
throughout this maturational period. Finally, histological analysis demonstrated 
no age-related changes in distance from the tympanic membrane (TM) to the 
promontory and in stapes footplate length. There was a small significant 
decrease in the TM thickness from 2 weeks to adulthood. The most significant 
developmental changes were a reduction in mastoid bone thickness and concomitant 
increases in the perimeters and areas of the middle ear and posterior bulla.

DOI: 10.1080/00016480152583610
PMID: 11678166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Vet Radiol Ultrasound. 2001 Sep-Oct;42(5):463-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1740-8261.2001.tb00971.x.

Radiation induced vertebral osteosarcoma following treatment of an intradural 
extramedullary spinal cord tumor in a dog.

Dickinson PJ(1), McEntee MC, Lipsitz D, Keel K, LeCouteur RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical and Radiological Sciences, School of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

A 2-year-old neutered female Rottweiler diagnosed with an intradural 
extramedullary spinal cord tumor at T12-T13 was successfully treated with 
cytoreductive surgery followed by Cobalt 60 teletherapy. The dog was euthanised 
5-and-a-half years later following diagnosis of an osteosarcoma involving the L1 
and L2 vertebrae. Evidence of the initial tumor was not present at necropsy. The 
vertebral neoplasm fulfilled all of the accepted criteria for a radiation 
induced tumor. It was concluded that adjunctive irradiation should be considered 
for treatment of intradural extramedullary tumors of young dogs when total 
surgical resection is not possible. Although tumor induction is a rare late 
effect of radiation therapy, the risk of this occurrence should be considered 
when irradiating young animals. Radiation induced tumors in dogs have been 
associated with coarse fractionation schemes, or when large intraoperative doses 
have been administered. A lower dose per fraction, e.g., 3 Gy/fraction or less, 
is advisable when irradiating young dogs or any dog in which the life expectancy 
is 3-5 or more years after irradiation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-8261.2001.tb00971.x
PMID: 11678571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Clin Transplant. 2001 Oct;15(5):343-8. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-0012.2001.150507.x.

Characteristics and clinical relevance of chronic anemia in adult heart 
transplant recipients.

Müller HM(1), Horina JH, Kniepeiss D, Tripolt MB, Stadelbauer V, Schweiger M, 
Tscheliessnigg KH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation Surgery, Department of Surgery, School of 
Medicine, Karl-Franzens-University Graz, Austria. helmut.muller@kfunigraz.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Mild chronic anemia following heart transplantation (HTX), with 
hemoglobin (Hb) values of 10-14 g/dL in men and 10-12 g/dL in women, is 
frequent. It has continued to be of uncertain etiology yet clinical relevance. 
Nonetheless, therapeutic immunosuppression has been regarded as a major cause of 
chronic anemia in HTX patients.
METHODS: Sixty outpatients were observed over a period of 5 yr after HTX. 
Laboratory values related to anemia such as Hb, erythropoietin (EPO), ferritin, 
transferrin, iron, and vitamin levels were obtained and analyzed monthly. 
Patients were divided into two groups retrospectively. Patients with persistent 
anemia for more than 1 yr were compared with non-anemic patients.
RESULTS: Forty-three (72%) of the 60 patients were anemic. Anemia was 
normochromic, normocytic, and slightly anisocytic. Anemic and non-anemic 
patients showed EPO levels within the expected range as defined by Erslev 
(Erythropoietin. N Engl J Med 1991: 324: 1339). Reticulocyte counts were found 
to be normal in all patients. Iron deficiency and deficiency of vitamin B12 or 
folic acid were not observed. Patients with persistent anemia showed a 
significantly shorter survival period than non-anemic patients (p<0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Mild anemia following HTX shows the same characteristics as anemia 
in chronic diseases. Persisting mild anemia used to be associated with a shorter 
life expectancy. There is no evidence that standard immunosuppression causes 
anemia.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0012.2001.150507.x
PMID: 11678961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Gen Intern Med. 2001 Oct;16(10):701-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1497.2001.00429.x.

Strategies for diagnosing and treating suspected acute bacterial sinusitis: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Balk EM(1), Zucker DR, Engels EA, Wong JB, Williams JW Jr, Lau J.

Author information:
(1)Evidence-based Practice Center, Division of Clinical Care Research, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Symptoms suggestive of acute bacterial sinusitis are common. 
Available diagnostic and treatment options generate substantial costs with 
uncertain benefits. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of alternative management 
strategies to identify the optimal approach.
DESIGN: For such patients, we created a Markov model to examine four strategies: 
1) no antibiotic treatment; 2) empirical antibiotic treatment; 3) clinical 
criteria-guided treatment; and 4) radiography-guided treatment. The model 
simulated a 14-day course of illness, included sinusitis prevalence, antibiotic 
side effects, sinusitis complications, direct and indirect costs, and symptom 
severity. Strategies costing less than 50,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life 
year gained were considered "cost-effective."
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: For mild or moderate disease, basing antibiotic 
treatment on clinical criteria was cost-effective in clinical settings where 
sinusitis prevalence is within the range of 15% to 93% or 3% to 63%, 
respectively. For severe disease, or to prevent sinusitis or antibiotic side 
effect symptoms, use of clinical criteria was cost-effective in settings with 
lower prevalence (below 51% or 44%, respectively); empirical antibiotics was 
cost-effective with higher prevalence. Sinus radiography-guided treatment was 
never cost-effective for initial treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a simple set of clinical criteria to guide treatment is a 
cost-effective strategy in most clinical settings. Empirical antibiotics are 
cost-effective in certain settings; however, their use results in many 
unnecessary prescriptions. If this resulted in increased antibiotic resistance, 
costs would substantially rise and efficacy would fall. Newer, expensive 
antibiotics are of limited value. Additional testing is not cost-effective. 
Further studies are needed to find an accurate,low-cost diagnostic test for 
acute bacterial sinusitis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1497.2001.00429.x
PMCID: PMC1495279
