PMID: 11679039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Epileptic Disord. 2001 Sep;3(3):133-6.

Tonic reflex seizures of early infancy: an age-related non-epileptic paroxysmal 
disorder.

Vigevano F(1), Lispi ML.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Bambino Gesú Children's Hospital, Piazza S. Onofrio 4, 
00165 Rome, Italy. vigevano@opbg.net

Non-epileptic paroxysmal disorders (NEPD) include a heterogeneous group of 
disorders that can be confused with epileptic manifestations. They occur very 
frequently in the first year of life and are expressed predominantly as unusual 
movements. We report the clinical and EEG-polygraphic characteristics of 13 
patients (nine male, four female) that we observed between 1988 and 1999, who 
presented non-epileptic tonic reflex seizures in the first months of life. All 
children had normal psychomotor development with no neurological antecedents. 
Onset of manifestations occurred between the first and third month of life. The 
seizure was characterized by diffuse tonic contraction with extension of four 
limbs, apnoea and cyanosis, and lasted 3-10 sec without loss of consciousness. 
Seizures occurred only while the child was awake and being held in a vertical 
position by an adult, and were triggered by movement or tactile stimulation. 
Ictal and interictal EEG were normal. Prognosis was benign with spontaneous 
remission within 2 months of onset. In our experience, this paroxysmal 
manifestation has not been described previously by other authors and represents 
a new NEPD which, in accordance with our first report of this entity, we suggest 
calling tonic reflex seizure of early infancy (TRSEI). (Published with 
videosequences.)

PMID: 11679304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Diabetes Care. 2001 Nov;24(11):1870-7. doi: 10.2337/diacare.24.11.1870.

The impact of blood glucose self-monitoring on metabolic control and quality of 
life in type 2 diabetic patients: an urgent need for better educational 
strategies.

Franciosi M(1), Pellegrini F, De Berardis G, Belfiglio M, Cavaliere D, Di Nardo 
B, Greenfield S, Kaplan SH, Sacco M, Tognoni G, Valentini M, Nicolucci A; QuED 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricerche 
Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, S. Maria Imbaro, Italy.

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2002 Jul;25(7):1255-6; author reply 1256.

OBJECTIVE: The role of self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) in type 2 
diabetes is still a matter of debate. In the framework of a nationwide outcomes 
research program, we investigated the frequency of SMBG and its association with 
metabolic control and quality of life (QoL).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The study involved 3,567 patients with type 2 
diabetes who were recruited by 101 outpatient diabetes clinics and 103 general 
practitioners. Patients completed a questionnaire investigating SMBG practice 
and QoL (diabetes-related stress, diabetes health distress, diabetes-related 
worries, and Centers for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression scale).
RESULTS: Data on SMBG were available for 2,855 subjects (80% of the entire study 
population). Overall, 471 patients (17%) stated that they tested their blood 
glucose levels at home > or =1 time per day, 899 patients (31%) tested their 
blood glucose levels > or =1 time per week, and 414 patients (14%) tested their 
blood glucose levels <1 time per week, whereas 1,071 patients (38%) stated that 
they never practiced SMBG. A higher frequency of SMBG was associated with better 
metabolic control among subjects who were able to adjust insulin doses, whereas 
no relationship was found in all other patients, irrespective of the kind of 
treatment. Multivariate analyses showed that an SMBG frequency > or =1 time per 
day was significantly related to higher levels of distress, worries, and 
depressive symptoms in non-insulin-treated patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SMBG can have an important role in 
improving metabolic control if it is an integral part of a wider educational 
strategy devoted to the promotion of patient autonomy. In patients not treated 
with insulin, self-monitoring is associated with higher HbA(1c) levels and 
psychological burden. Our data do not support the extension of SMBG to this 
group.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.24.11.1870
PMID: 11679449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Adv Virus Res. 2001;57:291-322. doi: 10.1016/s0065-3527(01)57006-2.

Whiteflies: vectors, and victims (?), of geminiviruses.

Czosnek H(1), Ghanim M, Morin S, Rubinstein G, Fridman V, Zeidan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Field Crops and Genetics, Otto Warburg Center for Biotechnology 
in Agriculture, Faculty of Agricultural, Food and Environmental Quality 
Sciences, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

DOI: 10.1016/s0065-3527(01)57006-2
PMID: 11680387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Oct;12(10):1236-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61689-3.

Re: Appraising decision and cost-effective analyses.

Rosen MP, Goldberg SN.

Comment on
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jul;12(7):783-7.
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jul;12(7):813-21.
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2001 Jul;12(7):823-33.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61689-3
PMID: 11680428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Oct;39(10):431-46.

Population pharmacodynamics in patients receiving tinzaparin for the prevention 
and treatment of deep vein thrombosis.

Barrett JS(1), Gibiansky E, Hull RD, Planès A, Pentikis H, Hainer JW, Hua TA, 
Gastonguay M.

Author information:
(1)DuPont Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Delaware, USA. jeff.barrett@aventis.com

OBJECTIVES: We conducted population anticoagulant pharmacodynamic analysis for 
patients administered the low-molecular weight heparin tinzaparin.
METHODS: Data from 425 patients (2,631 observations) who participated in 2 Phase 
III clinical studies were utilized in an analysis based on a pharmacodynamic 
structural model of anti-Xa activity using non-linear mixed effects modeling 
techniques. Anti-Xa activity from patients participating in a multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind clinical trial comparing intravenous once daily 
subcutaneous tinzaparin (175 IU/kg) with heparin for the treatment of deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT) was first examined using a 2-compartment model with first-order 
absorption and endogenous anti-Xa activity. Covariates included renal function, 
body weight, age, gender, race, obesity, concomitant administration of warfarin, 
and diabetes.
RESULTS: The population estimates and 90% confidence intervals (CI) for oral 
clearance (CL) and apparent volume of distribution of the plasma compartment 
(Vc) were 0.0176 l/h/kg (CI = 0.012-0.023) and 0.098 l/kg (CI = 0.088 - 0.109), 
respectively. The elimination half-life was 3.9 h (CI = 2.5-5.2). These 
estimates are similar to findings in healthy volunteers. The inter-patient 
variability in clearance was related to plasma creatinine and percent above 
ideal body weight. Clearance decreased by 22% for patients with severe renal 
function impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min), and by about 25% in 
obese patients (BMI > 30 kg/m2).
CONCLUSIONS: Changes of these magnitudes were not clinically important in pooled 
clinical trial safety and efficacy analyses. Body weight was not a significant 
covariate in the model supporting the observations in earlier well-defined 
trials, where tinzaparin was dosed on a weight basis (lU/kg). Clearance was not 
influenced by age, race or gender. The same model was applied to data obtained 
from a prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical trial comparing tinzaparin 
(4,500 IU) to enoxaparin (40 mg) once daily in patients undergoing total hip 
replacement. Model parameters were similar to those previously obtained 
supporting the extension of these results across dose and indication. Population 
analysis in patients with disease and heterogeneity indicated similar 
pharmacodynamics as in volunteers, supporting weight-based dosing and identified 
the dependence of clearance on obesity and severe renal function, although the 
magnitude of these effects are probably not clinically significant.

PMID: 11680668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Harefuah. 2001 Oct;140(10):941-6.

[The mechanism of aging, reactive oxygen species, and the fountain of youth].

[Article in Hebrew]

Dubnov G, Berry EM.

PMID: 11681129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. FDA Consum. 2000 Sep-Oct;34(5):3.

Counting juvenile diabetes.

Hazlett J.

PMID: 11681286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Evolution. 2001 Sep;55(9):1753-61. doi: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00825.x.

Patterns of genetic architecture for life-history traits and molecular markers 
in a subdivided species.

Morgan KK(1), Hicks J, Spitze K, Latta L, Pfrender ME, Weaver CS, Ottone M, 
Lynch M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403, USA. 
kmorgan@darkwing.uoregon.edu

Understanding the utility and limitations of molecular markers for predicting 
the evolutionary potential of natural populations is important for both 
evolutionary and conservation genetics. To address this issue, the distribution 
of genetic variation for quantitative traits and molecular markers is estimated 
within and among 14 permanent lake populations of Daphnia pulicaria representing 
two regional groups from Oregon. Estimates of population subdivision for 
molecular and quantitative traits are concordant, with QST generally exceeding 
GST. There is no evidence that microsatellites loci are less informative about 
subdivision for quantitative traits than are allozyme loci. Character-specific 
comparison of QST and GST support divergent selection pressures among 
populations for the majority of life-history traits in both coast and mountain 
regions. The level of within-population variation for molecular markers is 
uninformative as to the genetic variation maintained for quantitative traits. In 
D. pulicaria, regional differences in the frequency of sex may contribute to 
variation in the maintenance of expressed within-population quantitative-genetic 
variation without substantially impacting diversity at the genic level. These 
data are compared to an identical dataset for 17 populations of the 
temporary-pond species, D. pulex.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00825.x
PMID: 11681731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Evolution. 2001 Sep;55(9):1902-5; discussion 1906. doi: 
10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00841.x.

Can experiments on caloric restriction be reconciled with the disposable soma 
theory for the evolution of senescence?

Mitteldorf J(1).

Author information:
(1)Deptartment of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104-6018, 
USA. josh@forum.swarthmore.edu

A publication by Shanley and Kirkwood (2000) attempts to explain data on caloric 
restriction (CR) and life extension in the context of the Disposable Soma (DS) 
theory for the evolution of senescence. As the authors concede, this 
juxtaposition appears at first to offend intuition: According to the DS theory, 
senescence is the result of a tight budget for caloric energy, such that repair 
and maintenance functions are shortchanged; yet, in CR experiments, it is found 
that longevity decreases smoothly as the total caloric budget is increased. In 
the Shanley-Kirkwood model, an optimized allocation of resources causes energy 
to be diverted away from somatic maintenance at a greater rate than caloric 
intake increases, with the net result that more total energy is associated with 
less energy available for maintenance. In the present critique, the limitations 
of this model are detailed and its special assumptions reviewed. While the CR 
experiments find comparable life extension for males and females, measured 
relative to nonbreeding controls, the Shanley-Kirkwood model draws its energy 
budget from data on breeding females. In addition, the success in reproducing 
the observed relationship between feeding and longevity depends crucially on a 
mathematical relationship between food availability and the probability of 
reproductive success which may be difficult to justify.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0014-3820.2001.tb00841.x
PMID: 11681746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Am Fam Physician. 2001 Oct 15;64(8):1333-4.

Eliminating health disparities: our mission, our vision, our cause.

Smith JH Jr.

PMID: 11681776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2001 Nov;40(2):139-48. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(01)00140-8.

Lung cancer--a philosophical, ethical, and personal perspective.

Brescia FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Hollings Cancer Center, Medical University of South Carolina, 113 Rutledge 
Avenue, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. bresciaf@musc.edu

Lung cancer is a formidable worldwide health problem causing more deaths than 
breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer combined. Eighty percent are non-small 
cell type (NSCLC) and less than one in five patients can have a curative 
resection. Decisionmaking in treating cancer, and lung cancer specifically, 
requires an understanding of the basic ethical principles as well as a 
prioritization of values beyond medical knowledge alone. Choosing a treatment 
plan can be difficult because of the multiple confronting dilemmas occurring 
simultaneously. Economic analysis also is required of every major treatment 
strategy proposed. Active patient involvement is helpful in making these 
important and difficult choices at the same time clinicians must be mindful of 
their roles as healers, educators, and innovators of knowledge in a disease that 
has a five year mortality rate of nearly 90%. Finally, because end of life care 
issues are so common with this illness, clinicians must be aware of their 
importance in making dying easier for so many individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(01)00140-8
PMID: 11682321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Cell Tissue Res. 2001 Oct;306(1):15-26. doi: 10.1007/s004410100425.

Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in the rat thalamus: expression during 
postnatal development and correlation with calcium-binding proteins in adults.

Vitellaro-Zuccarello L(1), Meroni A, Amadeo A, De Biasi S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Fisiologia e Biochimica generali, Milan, Italy. 
laura.vitellaro@unimi.it

Postnatal expression of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans was studied in the rat 
thalamus by immunocytochemistry and Western immunoblotting techniques with 
monoclonal antibodies that recognize carbohydrate epitopes (clones CS-56, 1-B-5, 
2-B-6). The complex of the results shows that these antibodies recognize mostly 
nonoverlapping molecules whose expression is regulated during postnatal 
development. Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, recognized by antibody CS-56, 
and hyaluronan, identified by antibody 1-B-5 after hyaluronidase digestion, are 
abundant in the neuropil of most thalamic nuclei at the perinatal stage and 
progressively decrease during the second week of life, attaining levels barely 
detectable by immunocytochemistry at the end of the third week. In adult 
thalamus, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans of high molecular mass, bearing 
glycosaminoglycans unsulfated in the linking region, and recognized by antibody 
1-B-5 are confined to perineuronal nets around neurons chiefly localized in 
thalamic reticular nucleus. The immunoreactvity for antibody 2-B-6, specific for 
chondroitin-4-sulfate, is low at the perinatal stage and is not detectable in 
adult thalamus. Double-immunolabeling has shown that, along the rostrocaudal 
extension of reticular nucleus, the most developed perineuronal nets are 
associated with a subset of neurons expressing calretinin, and not with 
parvalbumin-positive neurons, which represent the largest neuronal population of 
the nucleus. The distribution of perineuronal nets supports the presence, in 
thalamic reticular nucleus, of neuronal subpopulations with different 
morphological and physiological features.

DOI: 10.1007/s004410100425
PMID: 11683176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Curr Microbiol. 2001 Oct;43(4):244-8. doi: 10.1007/s002840010295.

Cloning, molecular characterization, and application of rice epiphytic Bacillus 
pumilus promoter fragments.

Cao Q(1), Qu Z, Wan Y, Zhang H, Shen D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics, School of Life Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, PR 
China.

To establish a constitutive, high-efficiency expression system for Bacillus 
pumilus (B.P), we cloned random chromosomal DNA into promoter probe shuttle 
vector ECE7 and selected for strong promoter activity by chloramphenicol 
resistance of transformed B. pumilus cells. The nucleotide sequences of nine 
chromosomal fragments were determined. These DNA fragments range from 300 to 
2200 bp in size. The transcription strength of these promoters was estimated by 
determination of CAT enzyme production in both E. coli and B. pumilus. 
Transcription start (TS) sites of the cat mRNA were located by primer extension 
by using total RNA. Preliminary analysis showed that three of the promoter 
sequences contain -35 and -10 regions like E. coli RNA polymerase sigma70 and B. 
subtilis sigma43 consensus sequences. One is similar to B. subtilis sigma29, the 
other two have no conserved sequences like any of the typical consensus 
sequences of the known sigma factors so far. To estimate the feasibility of the 
utilization of these promoters, one promoter fragment was subcloned and used to 
drive the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in B. pumilus cells. 
This is the first report of B. pumilus promoters randomly cloning from total DNA 
and molecular analysis of their consensus sequences.

DOI: 10.1007/s002840010295
PMID: 11683357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Public Health Nutr. 2001 Apr;4(2B):499-515. doi: 10.1079/phn2001136.

Healthy lifestyles in Europe: prevention of obesity and type II diabetes by diet 
and physical activity.

Astrup A(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Human Nutrition, The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural 
University, Denmark. ast@kvl.dk

The prevalence of obesity is increasing rapidly in all age groups in most 
EU-countries and is one of the fastest growing epidemics, now affecting 10-40% 
of the adult population. Obesity increases the risk of serious co-morbidities 
such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, certain cancers and reduced 
life expectancy, and these complications may account for 5-10% of all health 
costs in EU countries. The risk of diabetes is particularly increased by 
obesity, and 80-95% of the increase in diabetes can be attributed to obesity and 
overweight with abdominal fat distribution. There is robust evidence from 
cross-sectional and longitudinal studies to support that an energy-dense, high 
fat diet and physical inactivity are independent risk factors for weight gain 
and obesity. Furthermore, interaction between dietary fat and physical fitness 
determine fat balance, so that the obesity promoting effect of a high fat diet 
is enhanced in susceptible subjects, particularly in sedentary individuals with 
a genetic predisposition to obesity. Ad libitum consumption of diets low in fat 
and high in protein and complex carbohydrates, with a low glycaemic index, 
contributes to the prevention of weight gain in normal weight subjects. It also 
causes a spontaneous weight loss of 3-4 kg in overweight subjects, and has 
beneficial effects on risk factors for diabetes and CVD. To prevent obesity and 
diabetes there are grounds for recommending the combination of increasing daily 
physical activity level to a PAL-value of at least 1.8 and reducing dietary fat 
content to 20-25 energy-% in sedentary subjects, and to 25-35% in more 
physically active individuals.

DOI: 10.1079/phn2001136
PMID: 11683545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Lancet. 2001 Oct 20;358(9290):1353-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06417-0.

Costeffectiveness of diagnostic tests.

Mushlin AI(1), Ruchlin HS, Callahan MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, NY 
10021, USA. aim2001@mail.med.cornell

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Mar 23;359(9311):1065.

We review the principles underlying cost-effectiveness analysis of diagnostic 
tests and procedures. We use two clinical examples, diagnostic testing for early 
multiple sclerosis and for Helicobacter pylori to illustrate the methods of 
analysis and to show how the results can be useful for physicians or payers of 
health services in making decisions about provision and use of diagnostic 
services. Economic assessments of diagnostic tests are inherently more difficult 
than assessments of therapeutic interventions, mainly because of uncertainty 
about the relation between diagnosis and end results (outcomes) of care. 
Nonetheless, because of the increasing importance of diagnostic technology in 
medicine and healthcare, only with such assessments will the most value be 
gained from restricted medical resources.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06417-0
PMID: 11684235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. J Cutan Med Surg. 2001 May-Jun;5(3):217-22. doi: 10.1007/pl00021727. Epub
2001  May 2.

Cost-effectiveness analyses: a basic overview for dermatologists.

Chen SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and the Emory Center for Outcomes Research, School 
of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
schen@ecor.cardio.emory.edu

BACKGROUND: In the current age of limited health care resources, 
cost-effectiveness analyses are important since they provide information that 
can be used by decision-makers for prioritizing and setting health care 
policies.
OBJECTIVE: This article gives a conceptual overview of cost-effectiveness 
analyses (CEAs) by discussing their strengths and limitations, introducing the 
calculations and variables involved, and outlining the issues in interpreting 
CEAs using dermatological examples.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness analyses are important tools that dermatologists 
can use to compare medical interventions using costs, effectiveness, and health 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00021727
PMID: 11685668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Lakartidningen. 2001 Oct 3;98(40):4331.

[Honour and long life of Oscar Award winners].

[Article in Swedish]

Werkö L.

PMID: 11685752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2001 Oct;87(4):283-8. doi: 
10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62241-7.

The effect of low-dose inhaled fluticasone propionate on exhaled nitric oxide in 
asthmatic patients and comparison with oral zafirlukast.

Lanz MJ(1), Eisenlohr C, Llabre MM, Toledo Y, Lanz MA.

Author information:
(1)Allergy, Asthma, Atopic Dermatitis, Rhinitis, Sinusitis Clinical Research 
Center, Pan American Hospital Asthma and Allergy Center, Coral Gables, Florida, 
USA. mjlanz@pol.net

Comment in
    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2001 Oct;87(4):257-60.
    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2002 May;88(5):530; author reply 531.

BACKGROUND: Exhaled nitric oxide (ENO) is a noninvasive marker of ongoing 
inflammation in asthmatic patients. Comparison between inhaled and oral 
anti-inflammatory medications in reduction of ENO in asthmatic patients has not 
been performed.
OBJECTIVE: We measured changes in ENO, spirometry, need for rescue medication, 
quality of life (QOL), and diary scores (DS) after inhaled and oral 
anti-inflammatory therapy in adults with moderate asthma.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design with 
4-week washout periods was used. A plateau level of ENO, measured in parts per 
billion (ppb), was obtained by chemiluminescence with a Sievers 280NOA as per 
American Thoracic Society recommendations. Eighteen asthmatic adults (15 
Hispanic, with a percentage predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
(FEV1%) of 50% to 85%) on bronchodilators (beta2) only were studied. Subjects 
used fluticasone propionate (FP) metered-does inhaler (44 microg), two puffs 
twice daily, and matching placebo (PB) for 4 weeks. Eight of the asthmatic 
patients (7 Hispanic, FEV1% 50% to 85%) on bronchodilators only then received 
blinded zafirlukast (ZK) 20 mg and matching PB twice daily for 4 weeks.
RESULTS: Low-dose inhaled FP resulted in significant improvements in ENO, 
spirometry, QOL, DS, and beta2 use. A significant difference in mean ENO was 
found (P < 0.01) before and after FP from 34+/-7 ppb to 13+/-3 ppb. A 
significant improvement was found (P < 0.05) with FEV1% from 75+/-3 to 85+/-3 
with FP treatment. The other measured parameters, percentage predicted of peak 
expiratory flow rate, beta2 need, DS, and QOL measurements, were improved with 
low-dose FP treatment. No significant reduction was found in ENO with oral ZK 
for 4 weeks. After oral ZK washout and the second extension arm of placebo, ENO 
significantly increased back to 47+/-14 ppb (P < 0.05), but spirometry measures 
did not worsen. Significant improvements were found with DS and beta2 use with 
oral ZK therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: These results reveal ENO is reduced with only low-dose inhaled FP 
in asthmatic patients not on anti-inflammatory medication. In the smaller 
extension study, ENO was reduced with FP and not with oral ZK treatment, and ENO 
levels increased back to near prestudy levels after ZK washout and the second 
extension arm of placebo. As a marker of inflammation, ENO levels reveal an 
improvement with anti-inflammatory medication and worsening when it is 
discontinued.

DOI: 10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62241-7
PMID: 11686419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Nov 6;98(23):13282-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.241506298. Epub 2001 Oct 30.

Lifetime correction of genetic deficiency in mice with a single injection of 
helper-dependent adenoviral vector.

Kim IH(1), Józkowicz A, Piedra PA, Oka K, Chan L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Ideally, somatic gene therapy should result in lifetime reversal of genetic 
deficiencies. However, to date, phenotypic correction of monogenic 
hyperlipidemia in mouse models by in vivo gene therapy has been short-lived and 
associated with substantial toxicity. We have developed a helper-dependent 
adenoviral vector (HD-Ad) containing the apolipoprotein (apo) E gene. A single 
i.v. injection of this vector completely and stably corrected the 
hypercholesterolemia in apoE-deficient mice, an effect that lasted the natural 
lifespan of the mice. At 2.5 years, control aorta was covered 100% by 
atherosclerotic lesion, whereas aorta of treated mice was essentially 
lesion-free. There was negligible toxicity associated with the treatment. We 
also developed a method for repeated HD-Ad vector administration that could be 
applied to organisms, e.g., humans, with life spans longer than 2-3 years. These 
studies indicate that HD-Ad is a promising system for liver-directed gene 
therapy of metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.241506298
PMCID: PMC60862
PMID: 11687662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 2000 Dec 23;130(51-52):1994-2000.

[Cost effectiveness in treatment of acute myeloid leukemia].

[Article in German]

Nordmann P(1), Schaffner A, Dazzi H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik B, Universitätsspital Zürich.

Although the rise in health costs is a widely debated issue, in Switzerland it 
was until recently taken for granted that patients are given the best available 
treatment regardless of cost. An example of a disease requiring costly treatment 
is acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML). To relate cost to benefit we calculated 
expenditure per life years gained. To assess costs we determined the real cost 
of treatment up to total remission, followed by consolidation or withdrawal of 
treatment or death. For survival time exceeding the 2-year observation period we 
used data from recent literature. The average cost of treatment ranges up to 
107,592 Swiss francs (CHF). In 1997 we treated 23 leukaemia patients at Zurich 
University Hospital and gained a total of 210 life years. This represents an 
average cost of CHF 11,741 per life year gained. Chief cost items were therapy 
and personnel costs for nursing staff, followed by hotel business and personnel 
costs for doctors and diagnosis. Our results for AML treatment are far removed 
from the $61,500 ranging up to $166,000 discussed in the literature as the 
"critical" QALY (quality adjusted life years) value. This is the first time the 
actual costs of AML therapy have been shown for a Swiss cohort. Despite high 
initial treatment costs and success only in a limited number of patients, the 
expenditure per QALY is surprisingly low and shows clearly the effectiveness of 
apparently costly acute medicine.

PMID: 11688067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Public Health Nutr. 2001 Apr;4(2A):275-92. doi: 10.1017/s1368980001001549.

European diet and public health: the continuing challenge.

James WP(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Policy Group and International Obesity Task Force (IOTF), 231 
North Gower St., London NW1 2NS, UK. jeanhjames@aol.com

DOI: 10.1017/s1368980001001549
PMID: 11688434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2001 Nov 1;38(5):1498-504. doi: 
10.1016/s0735-1097(01)01540-6.

Initial energy setting, outcome and efficiency in direct current cardioversion 
of atrial fibrillation and flutter.

Gallagher MM(1), Guo XH, Poloniecki JD, Guan Yap Y, Ward D, Camm AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiological Sciences, St. George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, United Kingdom. mm.gallagher@virgin.net

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to design a more efficient protocol 
for the electrical cardioversion of atrial arrhythmias.
BACKGROUND: Guidelines for electrical cardioversion of atrial arrhythmias 
recommend starting with low energy shocks, which are often ineffective.
METHODS: We recorded the sequence of shocks in 1,838 attempts at cardioversion 
for atrial fibrillation (AF) and 678 attempts at cardioversion for atrial 
flutter. These data were used to calculate the probability of success for each 
shock of a standard series and the probability of success with a single shock at 
each intensity. In 150 cases, a rhythm strip with the time of each shock allowed 
us to calculate the time expended on unsuccessful shocks.
RESULTS: We analyzed the effects of 5,152 shocks delivered to patients for AF 
and 1,238 shocks delivered to patients for atrial flutter. The probability of 
success on the first shock in AF of > 30 days duration was 5.5% at < 200 J, 35% 
at 200 J and 56% at 360 J. In atrial flutter, an initial 100 J shock worked in 
68%. In AF of >30 days duration, shocks of < 200 J had a 6.1% probability of 
success; this fell to 2.2% with a duration >180 days. In those with AF for >180 
days, the initial use of a 360 J shock was associated with the eventual use of 
less electrical energy than with an initial shock of < or =100 J (581 +/- 316 J 
vs. 758 +/- 433 J, p < 0.01, Mann-Whitney U test).
CONCLUSIONS: An initial energy setting of > or =360 J can achieve cardioversion 
of AF more efficiently in patients than traditional protocols, particularly with 
AF of longer duration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(01)01540-6
PMID: 11691530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Nov;21(4 Suppl):9-12. doi:
10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00383-x.

The effectiveness review trials of Hercules and some economic estimates for the 
stables.

Miller TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Calverton, Maryland 20705, 
USA. miller@pire.org

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00383-x
PMID: 11691556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. BMJ. 2001 Nov 3;323(7320):1013-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7320.1013.

The future of men and their health.

Meryn S, Jadad AR.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.323.7320.1013
PMCID: PMC1121527
PMID: 11691742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. BMJ. 2001 Nov 3;323(7320):1051-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7320.1051.

Understanding the toll of premature death among men in eastern Europe.

McKee M(1), Shkolnikov V.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London. Martin.mckee@lshtm.ac.uk

Erratum in
    BMJ 2001 Dec 15;323(7326):1423.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.323.7320.1051
PMCID: PMC1121549
PMID: 11691766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Ir Med J. 2001 Jul-Aug;94(7):206-8.

General hospital resources consumed by an elderly population awaiting long-term 
care.

Coughlan T(1), O'Neill D.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Medical Gerontology, Trinity Centre for Health Sciences, Adelaide & 
Meath Hospital, Dutblin, Ireland.

The provision of extended care facilities in urban Ireland has lagged behind the 
growth in the numbers of older people. A final pathway for placement is often 
through the general hospital and the attendant delay results in a diversion of 
resources. We developed a database of the long-term care waiting lists for the 
years 1994-present and this was analysed for the six years 1994-1999. We 
calculated the number of bed-days consumed by elderly patients awaiting 
placement in long-term care facilities and thus the hospital resources consumed 
during these periods. The total number of bed-days consumed over the study 
period was 51,923, the mean being 8653.8 days. Approximately 23.9% of patients 
die in hospital while awaiting long-term placement. Translating these bed-days 
into opportunity cost losses in areas relevant to the general hospital we found 
that 560 extra elective orthopaedic procedures and 1,212 extra transurethral 
prostatectomies could have been performed per year. The problem of overnight 
stays in casualty could have been totally abolished if only 65% of these beds 
were free. Elective theatre is often cancelled with one of the primary reasons 
being lack of beds. If even a proportion of these beds could be freed up few if 
any theatre sessions would have to be cancelled, assuming bed availability to be 
the only factor. This study confirms that the lack of appropriate accommodation 
for older people requiring extended care is consuming a significant proportion 
of health care resources. An accelerated program of building of publicly funded 
long-term placement facilities is urgently required to ameliorate this problem, 
especially in the greater Dublin area. Further study is required to determine 
whether this problem exists in other health board areas and if so whether it 
exists to the same extent.

PMID: 11693210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2001 Sep;58(10):1475-90. doi: 10.1007/PL00000790.

Cellulose synthesis: mutational analysis and genomic perspectives using 
Arabidopsis thaliana.

Williamson RE(1), Burn JE, Hocart CH.

Author information:
(1)Plant Cell Biology Group, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT. richard@rsbs.anu.edu.au

Cellulose microfibrils containing crystalline beta-1,4-glucan provide the major 
structural framework in higher-plant cell walls. Genetic analyses of Arabidopsis 
thaliana now link specific genes to plant cellulose production just as was 
achieved some years earlier with bacteria. Cellulose-deficient mutants have 
defects in several members of one family within a complex glycosyltransferase 
superfamily and in one member of a small family of membrane-bound 
endo-1,4-beta-glucanases. The mutants also accumulate a readily extractable 
beta-1,4-glucan that has short chains which, in at least one case, are lipid 
linked. Cellulose could be made by direct extension of the glucan chain by the 
glycosyltransferase or, as the mutant suggests, by an indirect route which makes 
lipid-linked oligosaccharides. Models discussed incorporate the known enzymes 
and lipo-glucan and raise the possibility that different CesA 
glycosyltransferases may catalyse different steps.

DOI: 10.1007/PL00000790
PMID: 11693528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Nutr. 2001 Nov;131(11 Suppl):3065S-73S. doi: 10.1093/jn/131.11.3065S.

The Mediterranean diets: What is so special about the diet of Greece? The 
scientific evidence.

Simopoulos AP(1).

Author information:
(1)The Center for Genetics, Nutrition and Health, Washington, DC, USA. 
cgnh@bellatlantic.net

The term "Mediterranean diet," implying that all Mediterranean people have the 
same diet, is a misnomer. The countries around the Mediterranean basin have 
different diets, religions and cultures. Their diets differ in the amount of 
total fat, olive oil, type of meat and wine intake; milk vs. cheese; fruits and 
vegetables; and the rates of coronary heart disease and cancer, with the lower 
death rates and longer life expectancy occurring in Greece. Extensive studies on 
the traditional diet of Greece (the diet before 1960) indicate that the dietary 
pattern of Greeks consists of a high intake of fruits, vegetables (particularly 
wild plants), nuts and cereals mostly in the form of sourdough bread rather than 
pasta; more olive oil and olives; less milk but more cheese; more fish; less 
meat; and moderate amounts of wine, more so than other Mediterranean countries. 
Analyses of the dietary pattern of the diet of Crete shows a number of 
protective substances, such as selenium, glutathione, a balanced ratio of 
(n-6):(n-3) essential fatty acids (EFA), high amounts of fiber, antioxidants 
(especially resveratrol from wine and polyphenols from olive oil), vitamins E 
and C, some of which have been shown to be associated with lower risk of cancer, 
including cancer of the breast. These findings should serve as a strong 
incentive for the initiation of intervention trials that will test the effect of 
specific dietary patterns in the prevention and management of patients with 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/131.11.3065S
PMID: 11694649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Onkologie. 2001 Oct;24(5):499-504. doi: 10.1159/000055134.

[Cancer treatment in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Kornek GV(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Onkologie, Klinik für Innere Medizin, Allgemeines Krankenhaus 
Wien, Osterreich.

Cancer Treatment in the Elderly Recent statistics indicate that in Europe about 
25% of the population are over 70 years old. According to demographic 
developments, including an increase in life expectancy and the ageing of the 
generations with high birth rates, this trend will certainly continue. Because 
age is a major determinant of cancer risk, more than half of all newly diagnosed 
malignancies will occur in this population. Despite the extent of the problem, 
cancer in the elderly is surprisingly poorly understood and treated. This fact 
exists not just because of an indifference of individual clinicians, but also 
because major conferences on oncology devote little, if any, attention to the 
treatment of cancer in older age groups. According to the resulting restrictive 
therapeutic strategy and the fact that older patients tend to delay seeking 
anticancer treatment, recently an increase in cancer mortality was noted in 
elderly patients as opposed to a decrease in the younger population. It seems 
imperative that health professionals as well as affected patients become aware 
that older people are a very heterogeneous patient population with considerable 
differences in terms of life expectancy, biology, pharmacodynamics, and thus 
therapeutic treatment options.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg

DOI: 10.1159/000055134
PMID: 11694780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2001 Oct 9;49(12):1-40.

Deaths: preliminary data for 2000.

Minino AM, Smith BL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data on deaths for the year 2000 in 
the United States. U.S. data on deaths are shown by age, sex, race, and Hispanic 
origin. Data on life expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality 
are also presented.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a large number of deaths comprising 
more than 94 percent of the demographic file and 85 percent of the medical file 
for all deaths in the United States in 2000. The records are weighted to 
independent control counts of infant deaths, and deaths 1 year and over received 
in State vital statistics offices for 2000. Unless otherwise indicated, 
comparisons are made with final data for 1999. For certain causes of death, 
preliminary data differ from final data because of the truncated nature of the 
preliminary file. These are, in particular, accidents, homicides, suicides, and 
respiratory diseases.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate in 2000 for the United States decreased 
slightly from 1999 to a record low in 2000. For causes of death, declines in 
age-adjusted rates occurred for heart disease, stroke, Chronic liver disease and 
cirrhosis, diabetes, and cancer. Age-adjusted rates for drug-induced deaths, 
alcohol-induced deaths, and firearm injuries also decreased during 2000. 
Declines also occurred for homicides, suicides, unintentional injuries, and 
Chronic lower respiratory diseases although the extent of the declines cannot be 
precisely assessed based on the preliminary data. Age-adjusted death rates 
increased between 1999 and 2000 for the following causes: Pneumonitis from 
solids and liquids, Alzheimer's disease, kidney disease, hypertension, Influenza 
and pneumonia, and Septicemia. The infant mortality rate for the black 
population was 4 percent lower, while the rate for the white population 
decreased (nonsignificantly) by 2 percent. Life expectancy at birth rose by 0.2 
years to a record high of 76.9 years.

PMID: 11694979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. In Vivo. 2001 Jul-Aug;15(4):295-8.

Tumor volume as an indicator of nodal status in advanced gastric carcinoma.

Kikuchi S(1), Matsuzaki H, Kurita A, Kobayashi N, Shimao H, Sakakibara Y, Sato 
K, Kakita A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Kitasato University, 1-15-1, 
Kitasato, Sagamihara-shi, Kanagawa 228, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The significance of tumor volume as an indicator of lymph node 
metastasis in advanced gastric cancer remains to be clarified.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Tumor volume was measured from continuous tissue sections 
taken from 60 patients with advanced gastric cancer (34 males and 26 females, 
aged 35 to 81 years; average 57.3 years) using a computer generated surface 
rendering method. The tumor volume and conventional clinicopathological factors 
were then analyzed with respect to the prevalence of lymph node metastasis.
RESULTS: Lymph node metastasis was detected in 26 patients (43%). Of 28 patients 
with a tumor > or = 2000 mm3, lymph node metastasis was observed in 17 patients 
(61%): n1, 12 patients; n2, 3 patients; n3, 2 patients. Of 32 patients with a 
tumor < 2000 mm3, lymph node metastasis was observed in 9 patients (28%): n1, 6 
patients; n2, 3 patients. A significant difference was found in the prevalence 
of lymph node metastasis between the two groups (p = 0.011). Furthermore, only 
tumor volume was an independent variable associated with lymph node metastasis 
according to logistic regression analysis (p = 0.013, odds ratio: 0.253, 95% 
confidence interval: 0.086-0.747).
CONCLUSION: Tumor volume appears to be an important indicator of lymph node 
metastasis in advanced gastric cancer. However, this factor cannot be used to 
introduce the option of limited lymphadenectomy for such patients.

PMID: 11695220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Ann Oncol. 2001 Sep;12(9):1265-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1012224400322.

Single-agent estramustine phosphate (EMP) is active in advanced breast cancer 
after failure with anthracyclines and taxanes.

Zelek L(1), Barthier S, Riofrio M, Sevin D, Fizazi K, Spielmann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
laurent.zelek@aero-eu.org

PURPOSE: Estramustine phosphate (EMP) is an oral cytotoxic agent that 
depolymerizes tubuline, a mechanism of action that has been revisited during the 
last decade. Because of its lack of haematological toxicity and favourable 
tolerance profile, EMP is a good candidate for palliative chemotherapy. The aim 
of the study was to assess its tolerance and efficacy in advanced breast cancer 
after failure with usual regimens.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with a life expectancy of at least 12 weeks and 
bi-dimensionally measurable disease having received at least 1 line of 
chemotherapy (including taxanes and/or anthracyclines) for advanced breast 
cancer (ABC) were eligible. EMP was given daily at a dose of 10 mg/kg until 
disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient refusal to continue 
chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Forty patients were included between June 1998 and December 1999. 
Patients had previously received one to eight chemotherapy regimens (median is 
two) for ABC. Twenty-two patients (55%) had visceral involvement and eighteen 
patients (45%) had osseous, chest wall or soft tissue metastases. Adverse events 
leading to early interruption of EMP were grade 2 allergy (n = 1), grade 2-3 
nausea (n = 6), deep-vein thrombosis (n = 1), grade 3 sepsis (n = 1). One 
patient died at twenty-four weeks from pulmonary embolism, and another at 
fourteen weeks from unknown cause. Seven objective responses were observed 
(17.5%; 95% confidence interval (CI): 6%-30%). Median time to failure was 24 
weeks (14-52+) in responding patients. All objective responses but one were 
observed in patients with visceral metastases. In 10 other patients (25%), 
disease remained stable with a median time to failure of 27 weeks (16-50); 6 of 
these experienced a decrease of consumption of analgesics or an improvement of 
performance status.
CONCLUSION: EMP is an active drug in ABC after failure with taxanes and 
anthracyclines, whose tolerance profile appears favourable.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1012224400322
PMID: 11697838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2001 Nov;125(11):1436-41. doi: 
10.5858/2001-125-1436-PTAIPW.

Pulmonary thrombotic arteriopathy in patients with sickle cell disease.

Adedeji MO(1), Cespedes J, Allen K, Subramony C, Hughson MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, 
MS 39216-4505, USA.

BACKGROUND: Shortened life expectancy due to pulmonary hypertension (PH) is seen 
in 5% to 10% of patients with sickle cell disease. The principal factors 
suspected of causing PH are pulmonary thromboemboli (PE) and in situ arterial 
thrombosis.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the possible role that PE or in situ arterial 
thrombosis play in the development of PH in sickle cell disease.
METHODS: Autopsies of 12 patients with sickle cell disease were correlated with 
clinical data from medical records.
RESULTS: Right ventricular hypertrophy was present in 9 of 12 patients. Six 
patients with right ventricular hypertrophy had thrombi in large elastic 
pulmonary arteries. All patients with elastic artery thrombi had fresh or 
organized thrombi in small muscular pulmonary arteries. Hypertensive small 
arterial changes were present in 5 of these 6 patients. Six patients showed no 
thrombi in elastic arteries. Among these 6 patients, 3 had right ventricular 
hypertrophy and recent and organized thrombi, as well as hypertensive changes in 
small arteries. One of these 3 patients demonstrated plexiform-like lesions and 
fibrinoid necrosis of small arteries. Three patients without right ventricular 
hypertrophy had pneumonia or pulmonary edema with no identifiable pulmonary 
artery pathology.
CONCLUSIONS: Arterial thrombosis with PH and cor pulmonale was regarded as the 
cause of death among most of these patients. Elastic artery thrombi are 
pulmonary thromboemboli, but pulmonary thromboemboli are always associated with 
widespread thrombosis of small arteries. Widespread thrombosis of small arteries 
alone was associated with PH in some cases. This finding suggests that pulmonary 
thromboemboli may be a late complication of PH and cor pulmonale and that an in 
situ thrombotic arteriopathy underlies the development of PH in most patients 
with sickle cell disease.

DOI: 10.5858/2001-125-1436-PTAIPW
PMID: 11697998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Exp Hematol. 2001 Nov;29(11):1336-46. doi: 10.1016/s0301-472x(01)00732-9.

The effect of graft purging with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide in autologous 
bone marrow transplantation for acute myelogenous leukemia.

Miller CB(1), Rowlings PA, Zhang MJ, Jones RJ, Piantadosi S, Keating A, Armitage 
JO, Calderwood S, Harris RE, Klein JP, Lazarus HM, Linker CA, Sobocinski KA, 
Weisdorf D, Horowitz MM.

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
