
BACKGROUND: Autologous bone marrow transplantation is an important therapy for 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). However, leukemia in the graft 
may contribute to posttransplant relapse. Treatment of the graft with 
4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4HC) is sometimes used to decrease numbers of 
infused leukemia cells (4HC purging). No large controlled trials evaluating 
efficacy and toxicity of 4HC purging are reported.
METHODS: We studied 294 patients reported to the Autologous Blood and Marrow 
Registry receiving either a 4HC-purged (n = 211) or unpurged (n = 83) autograft 
for AML in first (n = 209) or second (n = 85) remission. Analyses were 
restricted to patients transplanted less than 6 months after achieving 
remission. Using Cox proportional hazards regression, we compared time to 
treatment failure (death or relapse, inverse of leukemia-free survival) after 
4HC-purged vs unpurged transplants while controlling for important prognostic 
factors.
RESULTS: Median duration of posttransplant neutropenia was 40 (range, 10-200) 
days after 4HC-purged transplants and 29 (9-97) days after unpurged transplants 
(p < 0.01). Transplant-related mortality was similar in the two groups. In 
multivariate analysis, patients receiving 4HC-purged transplants had lower risks 
of treatment failure than those receiving unpurged transplants (relative risk, 
0.69, p = 0.12 in the first posttransplant year; relative risk, 0.28, p < 0.0001 
thereafter). Adjusted three-year probabilities of leukemia-free survival (95% 
confidence interval) were 56% (47-64%) and 31% (18-45%) after 4HC-purged and 
unpurged transplants in first remission, respectively. Corresponding 
probabilities in second remission were 39% (25-53%) and 10% (1-29%).
CONCLUSION: Grafts purged with 4HC are associated with higher leukemia-free 
survival after autologous bone marrow transplants for AML.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-472x(01)00732-9
PMID: 11698130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):2922-9. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2922.

Effect of HLA class II gene disparity on clinical outcome in unrelated donor 
hematopoietic cell transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia: the US National 
Marrow Donor Program Experience.

Petersdorf EW(1), Kollman C, Hurley CK, Dupont B, Nademanee A, Begovich AB, 
Weisdorf D, McGlave P.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, the U.S. National Marrow Donor 
Program, Georgetown University, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, USA.

The clinical importance of HLA class II gene disparity in unrelated stem cell 
transplantation is not entirely known. The impact was evaluated of matching 
donors and recipients for HLA-DR, HLA-DQ, and HLA-DP genes on clinical outcome 
after stem cell transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) performed 
between 1988 and 1997. HLA-DRB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, -DPA1, and -DPB1 alleles were 
identified in 831 transplant pairs using a combination of sequence-specific 
oligonucleotide probes, sequence-specific priming, and sequencing methods. Among 
the 831 pairs, 696 (84%) were HLA-A and -B serologically matched; of these, 565 
(81%) were also matched for HLA-DRB1. HLA-DRB1 matching correlated with 
significantly improved survival (relative risk [RR], 1.29 [95% confidence 
interval (CI), 1.02-1.64; P =.04]) independently of HLA-DQA1 or HLA-DQB1 (RR, 
1.01 [95% CI, 0.81-1.26; P =.94]) and HLA-DPA1 or HLA-DPB1 (RR, 1.11 [95% CI, 
0.84-1.48; P =.46]). Single-locus HLA-DQ or HLA-DP disparity was not associated 
with significantly poorer survival. For patients who underwent transplantation 
in the first chronic phase (CP) from HLA-A, B matched donors, the presence of 
DRB1 allele mismatching was independently associated with increased incidence of 
grades III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). No significant 
associations of class II allele mismatching with risk for delayed engraftment or 
chronic GVHD disease were detected. This study clearly demonstrates the 
importance of precise matching of HLA-DRB1 alleles for successful 
transplantation. Furthermore, a good-risk population of patients whose 
transplantations were performed in the first CP of disease from HLA-A, B, DRB1 
matched unrelated donors can be shown to have superior survival.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2922
PMID: 11698272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):2930-4. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2930.

Thoracic positron emission tomography using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose for the 
evaluation of residual mediastinal Hodgkin disease.

Weihrauch MR(1), Re D, Scheidhauer K, Ansén S, Dietlein M, Bischoff S, Bohlen H, 
Wolf J, Schicha H, Diehl V, Tesch H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University of Cologne, Germany. 
martin.weihrauch@uni-koeln.de

Residual mediastinal masses are frequently observed in patients with Hodgkin 
disease (HD) after completed therapy, and the discrimination between active 
tumor tissue and fibrotic residues remains a clinical challenge. We studied the 
diagnostic value of metabolic imaging by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron 
emission tomography (PET) in detecting active mediastinal disease and predicting 
relapse. Twenty-eight HD patients with a residual mediastinal mass of at least 2 
cm after initial therapy or after salvage chemotherapy were prospectively 
assigned to 29 examinations with FDG PET and were evaluated as 29 "subjects." 
Patients were monitored for at least 1 year after examination and observed for 
signs of relapse. Median follow-up was 28 months (range, 16 to 68 months). A 
PET-negative mediastinal tumor was observed in 19 subjects, of whom 16 stayed in 
remission and 3 relapsed. Progression or relapse occurred in 6 of 10 subjects 
with a positive PET, whereas 4 subjects remained in remission. The negative 
predictive value (negative PET result and remission) at 1 year was 95%, and the 
positive predictive value (positive PET result and relapse) was 60%. The 
disease-free survival for PET-negative and PET-positive patients at 1 year was 
95% and 40%, respectively. The difference was statistically significant. A 
negative FDG PET indicates that an HD patient with a residual mediastinal mass 
is unlikely to relapse before 1 year, if ever. On the other hand, a positive PET 
result indicates a significantly higher risk of relapse and demands further 
diagnostic procedures and a closer follow-up.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2930
PMID: 11698273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):2935-41. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2935.

Myelodysplastic syndromes, from French-American-British to World Health 
Organization: comparison of classifications on 431 unselected patients from a 
single institution.

Nösslinger T(1), Reisner R, Koller E, Grüner H, Tüchler H, Nowotny H, Pittermann 
E, Pfeilstöcker M.

Author information:
(1)Third Medical Department for Hematology and Oncology and the Ludwig Boltzmann 
Institute for Leukemia Research and Hematology, Hanusch Hospital, Vienna, 
Austria. thomas.noesslinger@wgkk.sozvers.at

Comment in
    Blood. 2002 Apr 15;99(8):3074-5.
    Blood. 2002 May 15;99(10):3870-1; author reply 3871.

In 1999 a working group of the World Health Organization (WHO) published a 
revised classification for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS): RA, RARS, refractory 
cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia (RC+Dys), RAEB I and II, del (5q) 
syndrome, and MDS unclassifiable. Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) and 
RAEB-t were excluded. Standard French-American-British (FAB) and new WHO 
classifications have been compared in a series of patients (n = 431) from a 
single center, analyzing morphologic, clinical, and cytogenetic data. According 
to the WHO findings, dysgranulocytopoiesis or dysmegakaryocytopoiesis only were 
found in 26% of patients with less than 5% medullary blasts. These patients are 
thus unclassified and should remain in the subgroups RA and RARS. Splitting of 
heterogeneous RAEB into 2 subgroups according to blast count was supported by a 
trend to a statistically significant difference in the single-center study 
population. Patients with CMML whose white blood cell counts are above 13 
000/microL may be excluded from the MDS classification, as warranted by WHO, but 
a redistribution of patients with dysplastic CMML according to medullary blast 
count leads to more heterogeneity in other WHO subgroups. Although the natural 
courses of RAEB-T and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with dysplasia are different, 
comparable median survival durations after treatment in patients with RAEB-T and 
AML were in favor of the proposed 20% medullary blast threshold for AML. The 
homogeneity of subgroups was studied by evaluating prognostic scores. A 
significant shift into lower IPSS risk groups was evident in the new 
classification. These data cannot provide evidence for the new WHO proposal, 
which should not be adopted for routine clinical use at present. Some of its 
aspects can provide a starting point for further studies involving refined 
cytogenetics and clinical results.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2935
PMID: 11698274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):2942-7. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2942.

Antithymocyte globulin for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis in transplants 
from unrelated donors: 2 randomized studies from Gruppo Italiano Trapianti 
Midollo Osseo (GITMO).

Bacigalupo A(1), Lamparelli T, Bruzzi P, Guidi S, Alessandrino PE, di Bartolomeo 
P, Oneto R, Bruno B, Barbanti M, Sacchi N, Van Lint MT, Bosi A.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale San Martino, Genova, Italy. apbacigalupo@smartino.ge.it

One hundred nine patients with hematologic malignancies, undergoing bone marrow 
transplants (BMT) from unrelated donors, were randomized in 2 consecutive trials 
to receive or not to receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) in the conditioning 
regimen, as follows: (A) 54 patients (median age, 28 years; 39% with advanced 
disease) were randomized to no ATG (n = 25) versus 7.5 mg/kg rabbit ATG 
(Thymoglobulin; Sangstat, Lyon, France) (n = 29); (B) 55 patients (median age, 
31 years, 71% with advanced disease) were randomized to no ATG (n = 28) versus 
15 mg/kg rabbit ATG (n = 27). Grade III-IV graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was 
diagnosed in 36% versus 41% (P =.8) in the first and in 50% versus 11% (P =.001) 
in the second trial. Transplant-related mortality (TRM), relapse, and actuarial 
3-year survival rates were comparable in both trials. In fact, despite the 
reduction of GVHD in the second trial, a higher risk for lethal infections (30% 
vs 7%; P =.02) was seen in the arm given 15 mg/kg ATG. Extensive chronic GVHD 
developed overall more frequently in patients given no ATG (62% vs 39%; P =.04), 
as confirmed by multivariate analysis (P =.03). Time to 50 x 10(9)/L platelets 
was comparable in the first trial (21 vs 24 days; P =.3) and delayed in the ATG 
arm in the second trial (23 vs 38 days; P =.02). These trials suggest that (1) 
15 mg/kg ATG before BMT significantly reduces the risk for grade III-IV acute 
GVHD, (2) this does not translate to a reduction in TRM because of the increased 
risk for infections, and (3) though survival is unchanged, extensive chronic 
GVHD is significantly reduced in patients receiving ATG.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.2942
PMID: 11698275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):3074-81. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3074.

Chronic myeloid leukemia and interferon-alpha: a study of complete cytogenetic 
responders.

Bonifazi F, de Vivo A, Rosti G, Guilhot F, Guilhot J, Trabacchi E, Hehlmann R, 
Hochhaus A, Shepherd PC, Steegmann JL, Kluin-Nelemans HC, Thaler J, Simonsson B, 
Louwagie A, Reiffers J, Mahon FX, Montefusco E, Alimena G, Hasford J, Richards 
S, Saglio G, Testoni N, Martinelli G, Tura S, Baccarani M; Europena Study Group 
on Interferon in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia; Italian Cooperative Study Group on 
CML; France Intergroup of CML; German CML Study Group; UK Medical Research 
Council Working Party on CML; Spanish CML Study Group; Australian CML Study 
Group; Swedish CML Study Group.

Achieving a complete cytogenetic response (CCgR) is a major target in the 
treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), 
but CCgRs are rare. The mean CCgR rate is 13%, in a range of 5% to 33%. A 
collaborative study of 9 European Union countries has led to the collection of 
data on 317 patients who were first seen between 1983 and 1997 and achieved 
CCgRs with IFN-alpha alone or in combination with hydroxyurea. The median time 
to first CCgR was 19 months (95% CI, 17-21; range, 3-84 months). At last 
contact, 212 patients were still alive and in continuous CCgR; 105 patients had 
lost CCgR, but 53% of them were still alive and in chronic phase. IFN-alpha 
treatment was discontinued permanently in 23 cases for response loss, in 36 
cases for chronic toxicity (15 are still in unmaintained continuous CCgR), and 
in 8 cases because it was believed that treatment was no longer necessary (7 of 
these 8 patients are still in unmaintained continuous CCgR). The 10-year 
survival rate from first CCgR is 72% (95% CI, 62%-82%) and is related to the 
risk profile. High-risk patients lost CCgR more frequently and more rapidly and 
none survived more than 10 years. Low-risk patients survived much longer 
(10-year survival probability 89% for Sokal low risk and 81% for Euro low risk). 
These data point out that a substantial long-term survival in CCgRs is 
restricted mainly to low-risk and possibly intermediate-risk patients and occurs 
significantly less often in high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3074
PMID: 11698293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):3150-5. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3150.

Bone marrow transplantation from unrelated donors: the impact of mismatches with 
substitutions at position 116 of the human leukocyte antigen class I heavy 
chain.

Ferrara GB(1), Bacigalupo A, Lamparelli T, Lanino E, Delfino L, Morabito A, 
Parodi AM, Pera C, Pozzi S, Sormani MP, Bruzzi P, Bordo D, Bolognesi M, Bandini 
G, Bontadini A, Barbanti M, Frumento G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Immunogenetica, Servizio di Epidemiologia Clinica, Istituto 
Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genoa, Italy. ferrara@cba.unige.it

The hypothesis was tested that amino acid substitutions in specific positions 
within human leukocyte antigen class I heavy chain would have different impacts 
on transplant-related mortality (TRM) in patients receiving transplanted bone 
marrow from unrelated donors. One hundred patients and their unrelated donors 
were typed by sequence-based typing for the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A, -B, 
and -C loci. All pairs were matched for DRB1, DRB3, DRB4, DRB5, DQA1, and DQB1 
loci. Forty pairs were also matched at class I, and 60 pairs had one or more 
mismatches at class I loci. It was found that substitutions at positions 116 and 
114 of class I heavy chain significantly increased the risk for TRM in 
univariate and bivariate Cox analyses. Conversely, no association between number 
of multiple mismatches or number of amino acid substitutions and TRM was seen 
when positions 116 and 114 were adjusted for. Variables predictive of TRM in 
multivariate Cox analysis were number of cells infused, diagnosis (chronic 
myeloid leukemia [CML] or non-CML), and amino acid substitution at position 116 
or 152. The only variable predictive of severe acute graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD) in multivariate Cox analysis was substitution at position 116. Actuarial 
risk for acute GVHD grade III-IV, TRM, and relapse in pairs with substitutions 
at position 116 (n = 37) compared to other pairs (n = 63) was, respectively, 36% 
versus 14% (P =.01), 59% versus 28% (P =.001), and 25% versus 31% (P =.4). In 
conclusion these data suggest that substitutions at position 116 of class I 
heavy chain increase the risk for acute GVHD and TRM in patients who receive 
transplanted bone marrow from unrelated donors.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3150
PMID: 11698304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. J Periodontol. 2001 Oct;72(10):1384-90. doi: 10.1902/jop.2001.72.10.1384.

A multi-center study comparing dual acid-etched and machined-surfaced implants 
in various bone qualities.

Khang W(1), Feldman S, Hawley CE, Gunsolley J.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland, Baltimore, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: A major reason for the success of modern dental implant systems has 
been the development of implant designs that enhance direct bone-implant 
interface. Surface roughness has been a factor in this success and different 
systems have utilized very different implant surface roughness. The major 
purpose of this study was to evaluate 2 similar implants with different surface 
roughness characteristics.
METHODS: Two similarly designed, screw-type, commercially pure titanium 
implants, one dual acid-etched (DAE) and the other machined-surfaced (MS), were 
compared in this prospective, randomized-controlled, multi-center study, in 
which a total of 97 patients were enrolled at a private dental practice or a 
university dental clinic. Both implant types were placed in each patient using a 
2-stage approach with a conventional 4- to 6-month healing period. Implants 
supported fixed prostheses, hybrid prostheses, and overdentures as dictated by 
the individual patient's need. All of the cases were followed using clinical and 
radiographic examinations. Criteria of success were the absence of peri-implant 
radiolucency, mobility, and persistent signs or symptoms of pain or infection.
RESULTS: Of the 432 implants (247 dual acid-etched, 185 machined-surfaced), 36 
implants (12 dual acid-etched and 24 machined-surfaced) have failed. The 
pre-loading integration success rate of the dual acid-etched implants (95.0%) 
was statistically higher (P < 0.01) than the success rate of the 
machined-surfaced implants (86.7%). At 36 months, the cumulative success rates 
(CSR) are 95.0% for the dual acid-etched implants and 86.7% for the 
machined-surfaced implants.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference in success rates is most likely attributed to the 
acid-etched surface characteristics. The greatest performance difference is 
observed in the conditions of poor quality or soft bone where the 3-year 
post-loading CSR are 96.8% (dual acid-etched) and 84.8% (machined-surfaced).

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2001.72.10.1384
PMID: 11699480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Folia Parasitol (Praha). 2001;48(3):217-23. doi: 10.14411/fp.2001.035.

A new monorchiid cercaria (Digenea) parasitising the purple clam Amiantis 
purpurata (Bivalvia: Veneridae) in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean, with notes on 
its gonadal effect.

Cremont F(1), Kroeck MA, Martorelli SR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudios Parasitológicos y de Vectores (CONICET-UNLP), La Plata, 
Argentina. fcremont@netverk.com.ar

An unnamed microcercous cercaria (Digenea: Monorchiidae), a parasite of Amiantis 
purpurata (Lamarck, 1818) (Bivalvia: Veneridae) and its corresponding 
metacercaria from the province of Buenos Aires and the Patagonian coast of the 
Southwest Atlantic Ocean, are described. The cercaria described in this paper 
differs from the three other monorchiid microcercous cercariae, i.e., Lasiotocus 
minutus (Manter, 1931), Lasiotocus elongatus (Manter, 1931), and Cercaria 
caribbea XXXVI Cable, 1956, mainly because of the extension of the excretory 
vesicle and the location of the ventral sucker. Cercariae artificially extracted 
from sporocysts encyst in a dish and form metacercariae enveloped by a 
gelatinous sac with two prolongations, which are used to adhere to the 
substratum. The monorchiid described in this paper has a life cycle similar to 
those of L. minutus and L. elongatus, although the adult stage of the present 
species is still unknown. Their larvae are similar in morphology and have 
venerid clams as their first hosts. The presence of a monorchiid larva is 
reported for the first time in the Southern Hemisphere. Its monthly prevalence 
rates, ranging from 0 to 25% (mean: 8.3%), are given from the Patagonian coast. 
The infection seems to cause castration as it was observed that during March 
through to May, when most gametes were produced in uninfected individuals, 81% 
of the infected individuals did not produce gametes.

DOI: 10.14411/fp.2001.035
PMID: 11699657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Arch Intern Med. 2001 Nov 12;161(20):2441-4. doi:
10.1001/archinte.161.20.2441.

Association of mutations in the hemochromatosis gene with shorter life 
expectancy.

Bathum L(1), Christiansen L, Nybo H, Ranberg KA, Gaist D, Jeune B, Petersen NE, 
Vaupel J, Christensen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Odense University Hospital, Sdr. Blvd 
29, DK-5000 Odense C, Denmark. Lise.Bathum@ouh.fyns-amt.dk

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2002 May 27;162(10):1196-7.

BACKGROUND: To investigate whether the frequency of carriers of mutations in the 
HFE gene associated with hereditary hemochromatosis diminishes with age as an 
indication that HFE mutations are associated with increased mortality. It is of 
value in the debate concerning screening for hereditary hemochromatosis to 
determine the significance of heterozygosity.
METHODS: Genotyping for mutations in exons 2 and 4 of the HFE gene using 
denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis in 1784 participants aged 45 to 100 
years from 4 population-based studies: all 183 centenarians from the Danish 
Centenarian Study, 601 people aged 92 to 93 years from the Danish 1905 Cohort, 
400 aged 70 to 94 years from the Longitudinal Study of Aging Danish Twins, and 
600 aged 45 to 67 years from a study of middle-aged Danish twins.
RESULTS: All participants (N=1784) were screened for mutations in exon 4, and a 
trend toward fewer heterozygotes for the C282Y mutation-the mutation most often 
associated with hereditary hemochromatosis-was found. This was significant for 
the whole population (P=.005) and for women (P=.004) but not for men (P=.26). A 
group of 599 participants was screened for mutations in exon 2, and there was no 
variation in the distribution of mutations in exon 2 in the different age 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In a high-carrier frequency population like Denmark, mutations in 
HFE show an age-related reduction in the frequency of heterozygotes for C282Y, 
which suggests that carrier status is associated with shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.161.20.2441
PMID: 11700156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Nov;34(5):820-5. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.118801.

Long-term follow-up of Greenfield inferior vena cava filter placement in 
children.

Cahn MD(1), Rohrer MJ, Martella MB, Cutler BS.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Memorial Medical Center, Division of Vascular 
Surgery, Worcester, MA 01655, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The long-term results of Greenfield inferior vena cava (IVC) filter 
placement have been well documented in adults; however, similar data do not 
exist for pediatric patients. The potential for growth and the increased life 
expectancy in younger patients may contribute to a difference in the natural 
history of filters placed in children. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the long-term outcome of pediatric patients with IVC filters.
METHODS: At the University of Massachusetts Memorial Medical Center, medical 
records and radiographs of patients 18 years old or younger at the time of IVC 
filter placement were reviewed. Follow-up data were obtained by interview, 
physical examination, and venous duplex ultrasound scanning.
RESULTS: A total of 15 IVC filters were placed in children 18 years old or 
younger between 1983 and 1999. In 10 patients the indications for IVC filter 
placement were lower-extremity deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary 
embolism. In five patients, prophylactic filters were placed in the absence of 
DVT because of a high risk for the development of pulmonary embolism. Surgical 
exposure of the right internal jugular vein was used to place the first eight 
filters. The remainder were inserted percutaneously through the right internal 
jugular vein or the right common femoral vein. There were no complications or 
mortality related to filter insertion. Follow-up of the surviving 14 patients 
ranged from 19 months to 16 years. During long-term follow-up, no patient had a 
pulmonary embolus. Of the nine patients who had lower-extremity DVT, three 
developed mild common femoral venous reflux documented by duplex scan. Of the 
five patients who had prophylactic filters, four had no symptoms or duplex 
evidence of reflux. The other patient, who was paraplegic, had bilateral leg 
edema but no venous varicosities and no reflux on duplex scan 11 years after 
filter placement. No patient in either group had chronic venous obstruction.
CONCLUSION: In long-term follow-up there were no instances of pulmonary 
embolism, IVC thrombosis, significant postphlebitic symptoms, or significant 
filter migration among 14 pediatric patients with Greenfield IVC filters. This 
suggests a safety profile and efficacy similar to that seen in adults.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.118801
PMID: 11700481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Nov;34(5):831-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.118591.

Comparative study of operative treatment and percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty/stenting for recurrent carotid disease.

Aburahma AF(1), Bates MC, Stone PA, Wulu JT.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Laboratory, the Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health 
Sciences Center of West Virginia University, Charleston, USA. 
ali.aburahma@camcare.com

PURPOSE: This study is a nonrandomized parallel comparison of the outcome for 
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
(PTA)/stenting for recurrent carotid artery stenosis (RCS).
METHODS AND PATIENTS: Between June 1996 and June 2000, 83 carotid procedures (58 
reoperations, Group I, and 25 PTA/stentings, Group II) were done for RCS. 
Patients were followed at regular intervals with duplex ultrasound scanning. The 
outcome of the stented group (Group II) was divided into early experience (Group 
IIA, first 12 cases) and late experience (Group IIB, last 13 cases) for learning 
curve consideration, and each was compared with the reoperation group. A 
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was used to estimate the stroke-free survival 
rates and freedom from > or =50% recurrent restenosis for both groups.
RESULTS: The demographic and clinical characteristics and indications for 
intervention were similar for both groups. The mean time from the original CEA 
to reoperation was 41 months in Group I versus 43 months in Group II. Overall, 
stenting had higher 30-day stroke rates than reoperations-16% (3 major and 1 
minor stroke) versus 3.4% (1 out of 2 [1.7%] was a major stroke, P <.05). 
However, Group IIB had similar major stroke rates to Group I (0% versus 1.7%). 
Cranial nerve injury was noted in 10 patients (17%) in Group I (only 1 [1.7%] 
was permanent) versus 0% in Group II (P <.05). Recurrent > or =50% restenosis 
was higher in Group II than in Group I (24% versus 0%, P <.001). Stroke-free 
survival rates at 6 months and 1, 2, and 3 years for Group I were 97%, 97%, 94%, 
and 82%, respectively, versus 79%, 79%, 79%, and 79%, respectively, for Group II 
(P =.059). Freedom from recurrent > or =50% restenosis rates at 6 months and 1, 
2, and 3 years were 100%, 100%, 100%, and 100%, respectively, for Group I versus 
100%, 94%, 65%, and 44%, respectively, for Group II (P <.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid PTA/stenting has a similar 30-day stroke rate to that of 
reoperation for RCS once experience is established. However, PTA/stenting has a 
higher incidence of restenosis than reoperation, which is associated with a 
percentage of cranial nerve injuries. Therefore, PTA/stenting can be an 
alternative to reoperation, particularly in marginal surgical risk patients.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.118591
PMID: 11700483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(9):901-16. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200119090-00002.

Cost effectiveness of bisoprolol in the treatment of chronic congestive heart 
failure in Sweden: analysis using data from the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol 
Study II trial.

Ekman M(1), Zethraeus N, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. 
mattias.ekman@hhs.se

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost effectiveness of adding the beta-blocker 
bisoprolol to standard treatment in patients with congestive heart failure 
(CHF).
DESIGN AND SETTING: A cost-effectiveness study was based on the Cardiac 
Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study II (CIBIS-II), a randomised clinical trial 
investigating the efficacy of adding bisoprolol to standard therapy of CHF. The 
cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out from a societal perspective.
METHODS: Health effects were measured in terms of years of life gained. On the 
cost side, treatment costs for pharmaceuticals and hospitalisations were 
included. Data on healthcare resource consumption from CIBIS-II were used and 
were combined with average Swedish retail prices for medicines, and average 
costs for hospitalisations based on hospital admissions, in the base case. The 
costs of added years of life, i.e. consumption net of production during 
life-years gained were also included.
RESULTS: If costs of added years of life were not included, then bisoprolol 
therapy increased life expectancy at an incremental cost of Swedish kronor (SEK) 
13 094 (1999 values) per year of life gained. If costs of added years of life 
were included, then the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of bisoprolol 
therapy was SEK 168 858 per year of life gained.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with CHF with the characteristics of those in 
CIBIS-II, the cost effectiveness of bisoprolol therapy compares favourably with 
that of other cardiovascular therapies.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119090-00002
PMID: 11700777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(9):927-36. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200119090-00004.

Cost-Utility analysis of tissue plasminogen activator therapy for acute 
ischaemic stroke: a Canadian healthcare perspective.

Sinclair SE(1), Frighetto L, Loewen PS, Sunderji R, Teal P, Fagan SC, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND: There are over 40000 ischaemic strokes annually in Canada, which 
result in significant morbidity, mortality and burden to the healthcare system. 
A recent, large clinical trial has evaluated tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) 
intravenously for the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke with promising 
outcomes but with an increased risk of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage.
OBJECTIVE: To compare clinical and economic outcomes of intravenous t-PA therapy 
(0.9 mg/kg, to a maximum of 90 mg, initiated within 3 hours of stroke onset) 
versus no t-PA for acute ischaemic stroke based on the outcomes achieved in the 
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) trial.
DESIGN: A Markov model depicting the natural lifetime course after an initial 
acute ischaemic stroke. On the basis of this model, a simulated trial compared 
no t-PA with t-PA.
PATIENTS: A hypothetical cohort of 1000 patients with acute ischaemic stroke.
STUDY PERSPECTIVE: Canadian healthcare system.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Total acute stroke and post-stroke treatment costs and 
cumulative quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: For a hypothetical cohort of 1000 patients, the estimated lifetime 
stroke costs were 103100000 Canadian dollars (SCan) [1999 values) in the t-PA 
arm ($Can103100 per patient) compared with SCan106900000 in the no t-PA arm 
($Can106900 per patient), yielding a lifetime cost difference of $Can3800000 in 
favour of t-PA versus no t-PA (SCan3800 per patient). In the hypothetical 
cohort, t-PA treatment resulted in 13 130 QALYs versus 9670 QALYs with no t-PA 
treatment. This translated into a net benefit of 3460 additional QALYs per 1000 
patients (3.46 QALYs per patient). No treatment, outcome or economic variables 
influenced the model outcome.
CONCLUSION: From the standpoint of cost effectiveness, treatment of acute 
ischaemic stroke with intravenous t-PA is an economically attractive strategy.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119090-00004
PMID: 11700779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19 Suppl 2:21-5. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200119002-00004.

Using economic evaluations to reduce the burden of asthma and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease.

Sculpher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, England.

There is increasing interest in the use of economic evaluations in healthcare, 
because of the need to maximise health benefits from limited resources. The 
focus of most economic evaluations is on efficiency, though they may also 
consider the issue of equity. In an economic evaluation, it is important to 
consider all the relevant costs, not just the acquisition cost of the treatment. 
Likewise, it is important to include all the benefits in the economic appraisal, 
although the outcomes of relevance to decision-makers may differ according to 
their perspective. If an intervention costs less but delivers fewer benefits 
than the comparator or, more commonly, a new intervention increases benefits 
compared with standard therapy but at increased cost, decision-makers must 
consider whether the extra cost is worth the extra benefit. This depends on the 
opportunity cost of introducing the new intervention - i.e. the benefit forgone 
by doing less of something else to fund it. In other words, decision-makers need 
to decide on the maximum amount they are willing to pay for an additional unit 
of health benefit. The result of an economic evaluation will be strongly 
influenced by the information used in the analysis. Currently, clinical trials 
are the most common source of data for economic evaluations. Yet there are a 
number of limitations in the information generated by clinical trials, which are 
primarily designed for regulatory approval. Consequently, decision analytical 
models are being increasingly used to synthesise data from various sources and 
to manage uncertainty in input parameters. When using economic evaluations, 
decision-makers may be unwilling to take a broad perspective on costs, focusing 
instead on their narrow budgetary concerns. Incentives may be required within 
healthcare systems to ensure that decision-makers adhere more strictly to the 
results of formal analysis.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119002-00004
PMID: 11700785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19 Suppl 2:33-8. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200119002-00006.

Using health outcomes data to inform decision-making: government agency 
perspective.

Taylor R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, England.

In the developed world, the demand for healthcare is rising faster than supply, 
so that governments are faced with the need to allocate limited resources for 
maximum benefit. Many governments are responding to these pressures by 
developing health technology assessment agencies, which evaluate the cost 
effectiveness of new pharmaceutical and medical products relative to existing 
interventions. In England and Wales, the agency concerned with health technology 
assessment is the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE). NICE brings 
together evidence of clinical and cost effectiveness to judge the value of the 
treatment relative to alternative uses of National Health Service (NHS) 
resources and makes recommendations on use of the treatment by the NHS in 
England and Wales. NICE evaluates technologies where they may result in 
significant impact on NHS resources or key healthcare policy. The health 
technology assessment includes a review of the clinical effectiveness, cost 
effectiveness and service impact of the technology under consideration. This 
health technology assessment report, together with submissions from the 
technology manufacturer, and patient and healthcare professionals groups, is 
then considered by an appraisal committee that formulates guidance to the NHS 
and is ultimately published by NICE. A number of countries have formal 
guidelines on the use of outcome measures and economic evaluations in the 
submissions required for health technology assessment prior to market access. 
These guidelines vary in both the detail and level of mandatory requirement to 
be followed by technology manufacturers. NICE has recently updated its guidance 
to technology manufacturers on their submissions. These guidelines, developed in 
consultation with the healthcare industry, provide detailed specification of the 
requirements of NICE for health outcomes data and economic evaluation. These 
details are described in more detail in this paper.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119002-00006
PMID: 11700787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Med J Aust. 2001 Oct 1;175(7):351-2. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143616.x.

Cardiovascular health in Indigenous Australians: a call for action.

Walsh WF(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Services, Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, NSW.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2001.tb143616.x
PMID: 11700810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2001;1:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-1-2. Epub 2001 Oct
15.

Cost-utility of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin in unstable 
coronary artery disease.

Nicholson T(1), McGuire A, Milne R.

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute for Health Research and Development, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK. apn@soton.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Low molecular weight heparins hold several advantages over 
unfractionated heparin including convenience of administration. Enoxaparin is 
one such heparin licensed in the UK for use in unstable coronary artery disease 
(unstable stable angina and non-Q wave myocardial infarction). In these 
patients, two large randomised controlled trials and their meta-analysis showed 
small benefits for enoxaparin over unfractionated heparin at 30-43 days and 
potentially at one year. We found no relevant published full economic 
evaluations, only cost studies, one of which was conducted in the UK. The other 
studies, from the US, Canada and France, are difficult to interpret since their 
resource use and costs may not reflect UK practice.
METHODS: We aimed to compare the benefits and costs of short-term treatment (two 
to eight days) with enoxaparin and unfractionated heparin in unstable coronary 
artery disease. We used published data sources to estimate the incremental cost 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY), adopting a NHS perspective and using 1998 
prices.
RESULTS: The base case was a 0.013 QALY gain and net cost saving of 317 pounds 
sterling per person treated with enoxaparin instead of unfractionated heparin. 
All but one sensitivity analysis showed net savings and QALY gains, the 
exception (the worst case) being a cost per QALY of 3,305 pounds sterling. Best 
cases were a 495 pounds sterling saving and 0.013 QALY gain, or a 317 pounds 
sterling saving and 0.014 QALY gain per person.
CONCLUSIONS: Enoxaparin appears cost saving compared with unfractionated heparin 
in patients with unstable coronary artery disease. However, cost implications 
depend on local revascularisation practice.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-1-2
PMCID: PMC59676
PMID: 11701090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Am J Prev Med. 2001 Nov;21(4):278-83. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00368-3.

Simulated effect of tobacco tax variation on Latino health in California.

Emery S(1), Ake CF, Navarro AM, Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

BACKGROUND: Over one fourth of the California population was Latino in 1999, and 
by 2015 Latinos are expected to be the single largest ethnic group in 
California. Patterns of smoking and nicotine dependence among Latino smokers may 
be quite different from those of smokers in other ethnic groups. In addition, 
Latino smokers may be more sensitive to cigarette prices. Therefore, the effect 
of an increase in cigarette excise taxes on Latino smoking prevalence may be 
quite large, and consequently the impact on Latino health may be proportionately 
greater than on population health in general.
METHODS: We simulated changes in Latino smoking, morbidity, mortality, and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) that would result from a range of actual and 
proposed cigarette excise-tax increases using a range of cigarette 
price-elasticity estimates specific to Latino smokers. Monte Carlo simulation 
was used to generate confidence intervals.
RESULTS: Assuming a Latino price elasticity of demand for cigarettes of -1.0, 
reductions in Latino smoking resulting from an additional $0.50/pack tax would 
produce nearly 3000 Latino QALYs in California in 1999. Greater benefits would 
accrue each year, until a steady state relative to population size is reached 75 
years after the program is initiated.
CONCLUSIONS: If Latino smokers are more responsive to changes in cigarette 
prices than other smokers, Latino smokers also stand to gain a disproportionate 
share of the health benefit from an excise tax increase.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00368-3
PMID: 11701298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Cas Lek Cesk. 2001 Aug 30;140(17):533-7.

[Turner syndrome: overview of problems, present status, proposals for care and a 
protocol for monitoring in childhood, adolescence and adulthood].

[Article in Czech]

Snajderová M(1), Heresová J, Mardesić T, Krenek M, Horejsí J, Kalvachová B, 
Popelová J, Mikesová E, Wohlová G, Feber J, Gerzová J, Hrobonová V, Teslík L, 
Zounarová M, Vejvalková S.

Author information:
(1)Klinika nukleární medicíny 2. LF UK a FNM, Praha. 
marta.snajderova@lfmotol.cuni.cz

BACKGROUND: Girls and adolescents with Turner syndrome (TS) usually receive 
intensive medical care in a multidisciplinary team, coordinated by paediatric 
endocrinologist. Majority of them are discharged from specialist clinics 
following the induction of puberty and attainment of final height. Patients with 
Turner syndrome have a reduced life expectancy, they are known to have 
multi-system impairments in addition to the short stature and to the absence of 
sexual development. Aim of this study is to propos a continuous follow-up by 
multidisciplinary team of physicians starting in childhood and following the 
discharge from the paediatric care.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This paper highlights the medical and psychosocial problems 
associated with Turner syndrome in childhood, adolescence and in adulthood. 
Analysis of these problems served as a background to management strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with Turner syndrome are at risk of number of medical 
problems. Quality of their life and the life expectancy can be improved with 
increasing awareness to comorbities associated with Turner syndrome. Assisted 
reproduction technologies has recently offered a chance for pregnancy and 
delivery of a healthy child also to women with Turner syndrome. Therefore, 
long-term follow-up by multidisciplinary team of physicians knowledgeable about 
these medical problems is necessary. Introduction of a centralised system of 
systematic multidisciplinary approach to patients with Turner syndrome from 
childhood and adolescence to adulthood seems to be very important.

PMID: 11702479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Cancer Treat Res. 2001;108:81-92. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-1463-3_5.

The monocytic component in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Castoldi G(1), Rigolin GM.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Section, University of Ferrara, Italy.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-1463-3_5
PMID: 11702607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Am J Knee Surg. 2001 Fall;14(4):209-14.

Long-term results of cemented, posterior cruciate ligament-retaining total knee 
arthroplasty in osteoarthritis.

Gill GS, Joshi AB.

Two hundred fifty-four total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) in 223 patients (82 men 
and 141 women) with osteoarthritis were reviewed. Average patient age at surgery 
was 68 years (range: 37-90 years). No patient was lost to follow-up. Average 
follow-up was 16.8 years (range: 15.2-23.2 years). Preoperatively, 175 (69%) 
knees had a varus deformity. The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was retained 
in all 254 knees, and all prostheses were cemented. Clinically, 91% of knees 
were rated as excellent; however, functionally, only 23% of knees were rated as 
excellent. There were 13 (5%) complications. Revision was performed in 10 (4%) 
knees. Survivorship analysis showed average implant survival for all revisions 
was 96.3% (range: 91.9%-98.3%) at 15 years and 82% (range: 60%-92.6%) at 23 
years. Long-term results of cemented, PCL-retaining TKA for osteoarthritis are 
excellent in terms of improved clinical function and pain relief.

PMID: 11703032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 2001 Oct;15(4):374-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3016.2001.00371.x.

Survival of infants with spina bifida: a population study, 1979-94.

Wong LY(1), Paulozzi LJ.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, 4770 Buford Highway NE, Atlanta, GA 30341-3724, 
USA. Lyw8@cdc.gov

This study aimed to investigate the survival of infants born with spina bifida 
between 1979 and 1994 from the population-based Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital 
Defects Program (MACDP) and to identify clinical and demographic factors 
associated with survival. Survival status was obtained from MACDP records and 
the National Death Index. Survival rates were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier 
method. Risk factors potentially associated with survival were examined by the 
log-rank test. We assessed the independent effect of risk factors using the Cox 
proportional hazards model. Overall, 78.4% of children with spina bifida 
survived during the study period. Of the 235 infants born with spina bifida, 
87.2% survived the first year of life. Survival to age 1 for the 1979-83, 
1984-88 and 1989-94 birth cohorts was 82.7%, 88.5% and 91.0% respectively. In 
multivariable analysis, factors associated with increased mortality were low 
birthweight (<2500 g) (vs. > or =2500g, relative risk (RR) 2.3 [95% CI 1.1, 
4.9]) and high lesions (vs. low lesions, RR 3.4 [95% CI 1.6, 7.1]). This study 
suggests a continuous improvement in survival among children born with spina 
bifida in Atlanta. Demographic and clinical factors are associated with length 
of survival. This information is useful for both clinicians and families who 
need to plan for the long-term care of these children.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3016.2001.00371.x
PMID: 11703686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Fertil Steril. 2001 Nov;76(5):1041-4. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(01)02855-2.

Pregnancy rates following fimbriectomy reversal via neosalpingostomy: a 10-year 
retrospective analysis.

Tourgeman DE(1), Bhaumik M, Cooke GC, Najmabadi S, Paulson RJ, Jain JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Reproductive 
Endocrinology and Infertility, University of Southern California-Keck School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To establish parameters associated with successful fimbriectomy 
reversal and to estimate monthly fecundability and cumulative pregnancy rates 
through life-table analysis.
DESIGN: Series report.
SETTING: University-based infertility clinic.
PATIENT(S): Forty-one women undergoing surgery for tubal sterilization reversal.
INTERVENTION(S): Surgical fimbriectomy reversal.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Time from sterilization to reversal, laparoscopy vs. 
laparotomy, uni- vs. bilateral fimbriectomy reversal, Bruhat vs. suture, tubal 
lengths, postsurgical hysterosalpingogram, ovulation induction, incidence of 
pregnancy and outcome, and life-table analysis to determine pregnancy rate.
RESULT(S): The mean time from sterilization to reversal was 11.5 years. Of the 
41 women who underwent fimbriectomy reversal, 6 (14.6%) conceived. Sixteen 
reversals were performed by laparotomy resulting in 4 (25%) pregnancies, whereas 
25 were performed laparoscopically resulting in 2 (8%) pregnancies. Eight had 
unilateral salpingostomies and 33 bilateral, of which 1 of 8 (12.5%) and 5 of 33 
(15.2%) conceived, respectively. Using the Bruhat technique, 1 of 11 (9%) 
conceived vs. 5 of 30 (16.7%) that underwent reversal using sutures. The mean 
postoperative tubal length for the 6 women who conceived was 8 cm vs. 6.7 cm in 
the 35 women who did not conceive. Postoperatively, 26 women received ovulation 
induction and 1 (3.8%) conceived whereas 5 (33.3%) conceptions occurred in 15 
women who did not require ovulation induction. Using life-table analysis with 
619 postsurgical cycles, the monthly fecundability was.0097. The cumulative 
conception rate after 5 years was 31.2%.
CONCLUSION(S): Neosalpingostomy for the reversal of fimbriectomy sterilization 
represents a viable option for fertility restoration. The best candidates for 
this procedure are spontaneously ovulatory and have a tubal length of more than 
7 cm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(01)02855-2
PMID: 11704131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Oct;28(7):665-72. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703219.

Gene scanning of VDJH-amplified segments is a clinically relevant technique to 
detect contaminating tumor cells in the apheresis products of multiple myeloma 
patients undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.

López-Pérez R(1), García-Sanz R, González D, Balanzategui A, Chillón MC, Alaejos 
I, Mateos MV, Caballero MD, Corral M, Orfão A, González M, San Miguel JF.

Author information:
(1)Haematology Service, University Hospital of Salamanca and Centre for Cancer 
Research of Salamanca, Paseo de San Vicente, 58-182, Salamanca, 37007, Spain.

Contaminating tumour cells in apheresis products have proved to influence the 
outcome of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) undergoing autologous stem cell 
transplantation (APBSCT). The gene scanning of clonally rearranged VDJ segments 
of the heavy chain immunoglobulin gene (VDJH) is a reproducible and easy to 
perform technique that can be optimised for clinical laboratories. We used it to 
analyse the aphereses of 27 MM patients undergoing APBSCT with clonally 
detectable VDJH segments, and 14 of them yielded monoclonal peaks in at least 
one apheresis product. The presence of positive results was not related to any 
pre-transplant characteristics, except the age at diagnosis (lower in patients 
with negative products, P = 0.04). Moreover, a better pre-transplant response 
trended to associate with a negative result (P = 0.069). Patients with clonally 
free products were more likely to obtain a better response to transplant 
(complete remission, 54% vs 28%; >90% reduction in the M-component, 93% vs 43% P 
= 0.028). In addition, patients transplanted with polyclonal products had longer 
progression-free survival, (39 vs 19 months, P = 0.037) and overall survival 
(81% vs 28% at 5 years, P = 0.045) than those transplanted with monoclonal 
apheresis. In summary, the gene scanning of apheresis products is a useful and 
clinically relevant technique in MM transplanted patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703219
PMID: 11704789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Value Health. 2001 Jan-Feb;4(1):32-44. doi: 
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.004001032.x.

Modeling choice behavior for new pharmaceutical products.

Bingham MF(1), Johnson FR, Miller D.

Author information:
(1)Triangle Economic Research, Durham, NC, USA. mfb@ter.com

This paper presents a dynamic generalization of a model often used to aid 
marketing decisions relating to conventional products. The model uses 
stated-preference data in a random-utility framework to predict adoption rates 
for new pharmaceutical products. In addition, this paper employs a Markov model 
of patient learning in drug selection. While the simple learning rule presented 
here is only a rough approximation to reality, this model nevertheless 
systematically incorporates important features including learning and the 
influence of shifting preferences on market share. Despite its simplifications, 
the integrated framework of random-utility and product attribute updating 
presented here is capable of accommodating a variety of pharmaceutical marketing 
and development problems. This research demonstrates both the strengths of 
stated-preference market research and some of its shortcomings for 
pharmaceutical applications.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.004001032.x
PMID: 11704970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2001;2(3):143-50. doi: 10.2165/00128071-200102030-00003.

Estrogen and skin. An overview.

Shah MG(1), Maibach HI.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, School of Medicine, San Francisco, 
California, USA. mgshah@alumni.stanford.org

As the population of postmenopausal women increases, interest in the effects of 
estrogen grows. The influence of estrogen on several body systems has been 
well-documented; however, one area that has not been explored is the effects of 
estrogen on skin. Estrogen appears to aid in the prevention of skin aging in 
several ways. This reproductive hormone prevents a decrease in skin collagen in 
postmenopausal women; topical and systemic estrogen therapy can increase the 
skin collagen content and therefore maintain skin thickness. In addition, 
estrogen maintains skin moisture by increasing acid mucopolysaccharides and 
hyaluronic acid in the skin and possibly maintaining stratum corneum barrier 
function. Sebum levels are higher in postmenopausal women receiving hormone 
replacement therapy. Skin wrinkling also may benefit from estrogen as a result 
of the effects of the hormone on the elastic fibers and collagen. Outside of its 
influence on skin aging, it has been suggested that estrogen increases cutaneous 
wound healing by regulating the levels of a cytokine. In fact, topical estrogen 
has been found to accelerate and improve wound healing in elderly men and women. 
The role of estrogen in scarring is unclear but recent studies indicate that the 
lack of estrogen or the addition of tamoxifen may improve the quality of 
scarring. Unlike skin aging, the role of endogenous and exogenous estrogen in 
melanoma has not been well established.

DOI: 10.2165/00128071-200102030-00003
PMID: 11705091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Value Health. 2001 Jul-Aug;4(4):281-94. doi:
