10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.44053.x.

Assessment of clinical guidelines for continuation treatment in major 
depression.

Nuijten MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Dorpsstraat 75, 1526 LG Jisp, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. nuijtenmedtap@compuserve.com

OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this study was to assess the appropriateness 
of the existing Dutch clinical guidelines for the treatment of depression from a 
health-economic perspective. The existing guidelines recommend continuation 
treatment for a period up to 9 months.
METHODS: The assessment was based on a Markov model using decision-analytic 
techniques. For this analysis we defined six mutually exclusive states defined 
by the existence of depression and type of treatment. The outcomes for the model 
were defined as: time without depression (TWD), quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), direct medical costs, and cost of lost productivity. The primary 
perspective of the study was that of the third-party payer, while the secondary 
perspective was that of the society in 1999. The probabilities of clinical 
events and therapeutic choices as well as the utilities were based on published 
literature. The medical resource use related to each state was abstracted from 
published literature and expert opinion. The associated 1999 unit costs of the 
used medical resources were derived from official Dutch tariff lists of 
allowable reimbursements. Indirect costs in this model were based on lost 
productivity only.
RESULTS: The results of the primary analysis showed that the use of the 
guidelines is not cost-effective. Continuation treatment for a period of 9 
months increases the total direct medical costs (NLG 1276 vs. NLG 474), 
decreases the costs resulting from lost productivity (NLG 304 vs. NLG 909), 
increases total costs (NLG 1580 vs. NLG 1383) and increases TWD (96.9% vs. 
86.4%). However, continuation treatment does not change the utility outcomes 
(0.60 vs. 0.61 QALYs) for both treatment strategies. Hence continuation 
treatment is not cost-effective from either a third-party payer perspective or a 
societal perspective. A scenario analysis showed that an extension of the 
continuation treatment to maintenance treatment might result in a favorable 
cost-effectiveness outcome of the treatment guideline.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, based on the assumptions used in the model, the 
current Dutch treatment guidelines for depression are only appropriate from a 
health-economic perspective if continuation treatment is extended to maintenance 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.44053.x
PMID: 11705296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Value Health. 2001 Jul-Aug;4(4):316-28. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.44037.x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of entacapone in Parkinson's disease: a Markov 
process analysis.

Nuijten MJ(1), van Iperen P, Palmer C, van Hilten BJ, Snyder E.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Dorpsstraat 75, 1526 LG Jisp, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. nuijtenmedtap@compuserve.com

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
a complementary treatment with entacapone versus usual care only in patients 
with Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: The setting for this study was the Netherlands. A Markov process model 
was constructed to model the average quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and the 
costs of both treatments. The model examined a period of 5 years in order to 
capture the influence of symptom improvement and disease progression. Data for 
the construction of the model were derived from published literature, including 
large, multicenter, randomized clinical trials in patients with end-of-dose 
motor fluctuations. Costs were obtained from published sources.
RESULTS: The results of the baseline analysis showed that the use of entacapone 
as complementary therapy in Parkinson's disease slightly decreased the total 
average discounted costs from NLG 111,317 to NLG 110,038, while effectiveness 
increased from 2.42 to 2.56 QALYs (a 6% increase). In addition, entacapone 
substantially increased time without severe fluctuations by 0.63 years. 
Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these findings.
CONCLUSION: The study shows that entacapone is a cost-effective treatment in 
patients with Parkinson's disease: entacapone yields higher effectiveness in 
terms of both effectiveness measures (time without severe fluctuations and 
QALYs), while costs remain quite similar to those for usual care. The additional 
drug costs for entacapone are offset by reductions in other costs.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2001.44037.x
PMID: 11705299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Lancet. 2001 Oct 27;358(9291):1405-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06526-6.

Prevalence of hereditary haemochromatosis in late-onset type 1 diabetes 
mellitus: a retrospective study.

Ellervik C(1), Mandrup-Poulsen T, Nordestgaard BG, Larsen LE, Appleyard M, 
Frandsen M, Petersen P, Schlichting P, Saermark T, Tybjaerg-Hansen A, Birgens H.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Haematology L, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
DK-2730, Herlev, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Although genotyping studies suggest that hereditary haemochromatosis 
is one of the most common genetic disorders in white people, it is still thought 
of as an uncommon disease. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that hereditary 
haemochromatosis is a disease often overlooked in patients with late-onset type 
1 diabetes mellitus, a late manifestation of untreated iron overload.
METHODS: We did a retrospective study in which we genotyped for the C282Y and 
H63D mutations in the haemochromatosis gene in 716 unselected Danish patients 
who developed type 1 diabetes mellitus after age 30 years and 9174 controls from 
the general Danish population. We also screened for hereditary haemochromatosis 
by assessment of transferrin saturation.
FINDINGS: More patients with diabetes (n=9, relative frequency 1.26%, 95% CI 
0.58-2.37) than controls (23, 0.25%, 0.16-0.38) were homozygous for C282Y (odds 
ratio 4.6, 2.0-10.1, p=0.0001). These patients had unrecognised signs of 
haemochromatosis. Transferrin saturation and ferritin concentrations ranged from 
57% to 102% and 17 microg/L to 8125 microg/L, respectively. Frequency of 
compound heterozygosity (C282Y/H63D) did not differ between patients with 
diabetes (eight) and controls (131) (odds ratio 0.8, 95% CI 0.4-1.7). Positive 
and negative predictive values of transferrin saturation greater than 50%, in 
identification of C282Y homozygosity, were 0.26 and 1.00, respectively. A 
saturation of less than 50% therefore excluded C282Y homozygosity, whereas a 
saturation of more than 50% suggested C282Y homozygosity.
INTERPRETATION: Measurement of transferrin saturation followed by genetic 
testing could prevent liver and heart problems and improve life expectancy in 
patients with diabetes. Population screening before the onset of diabetes might 
improve the outlook of patients even further, but will be less cost effective.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)06526-6
PMID: 11705485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Neth J Med. 2001 Nov;59(5):259-66. doi: 10.1016/s0300-2977(01)00160-7.

Treatment of cancer in old age, shortcomings and challenges.

Wymenga AN(1), Slaets JP, Sleijfer DT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
Hospital Groningen, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
a.n.m.wymenga@int.azg.nl

The burden of cancer in old age is increasing as a result from both the 
expanding number of older persons in the population and the high and still 
increasing cancer incidence in this group. The goal of this article is to 
outline the shortcomings and challenges of the management of cancer in the 
elderly. Several factors contribute to the complexity of this management, such 
as the enormous heterogeneity in this population, increased co-morbidity, 
reduced functional status, increased frailty and different treatment goals from 
those in younger patients. Other problems include the lack of data on the 
efficacy and toxicity of cancer treatment in this age group, the lack of 
awareness of life-expectancy and the lack of an easy applicable and validated 
frailty scale. Improvement of the quality of oncological care in this age group 
could be achieved by initiation of clinical trials specifically directed at the 
elderly, in which a frailty scale is implemented. The results of these trials 
may lead to more evidence-based decision making in cancer treatment in the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2977(01)00160-7
PMID: 11705645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2001;68(4):213-21.

Conus hip prosthesis.

Wagner H, Wagner M.

50 years ago, prosthetic replacement of the hip joint ushered in a new epoch in 
orthopaedics. Total hip replacement made it possible to remove a severely 
diseased, painful hip and restore normal function and a normal quality of life 
to the afflicted patient. The early results of total hip replacement are almost 
all spectacular and hip replacement has become the most successful type of 
orthopaedic surgery. These good results using an approach that was technically 
relatively simple resulted in a temptation to implant prosthetic hip joints with 
ever increasing frequency in ever younger patients. This led to the emergence of 
new problems, which were not so clearly recognised at the outset: it emerged 
that the stability of prosthetic hip joints was of limited duration. This had 
the following consequence: If a total hip prosthesis is implanted in an elderly 
person whose remaining life-expectancy is shorter than the longevity of the 
prosthesis, hip replacement is a life-long solution. We can therefore say that, 
for a patient who has only 10 to 15 years left to live, their hip problem is 
solved by total hip replacement. For young people, who still have a long life 
expectancy in front of them, it is different. They will experience failure of 
the artificial joint and require further surgery. The commonest and most 
important type of failure in total hip prostheses is aseptic loosening, which is 
associated with resorption of bone at the site of the prosthesis. The cause of 
this phenomenon has only gradually been recognised in the course of the years. 
Initially, the unanimous opinion was that the methacrylate cement, used to fix 
the components of the prosthesis in the bone, was the definitive cause of 
aseptic loosening because fissures and fractures of the cement were almost 
always found during surgical revision of loosened joints. There was talk of 
"cement disease" and great efforts were made to improve the quality of the 
cement and the cementing technique. Moreover, even today, there is no 
established answer to the question whether, over the course of many years, 
cement ages and becomes friable, a process that may have major implications for 
young patients. For this reason, ways of reliably fixing the prosthesis in the 
bone without methacrylate cement were also explored at the same time. Valuable 
pioneering work in this field was carried out with uncemented dental implants 
made of titanium and with a roughened surface. With these implants, the 
phenomenon of osseointegration, i.e. the deposition of bone directly on the 
roughened metal surface without any intervening connective tissue, was observed. 
This phenomenon has also been utilised successfully in hip prostheses: if 
artificial hips made of titanium alloy with a coarse-blasted surface and with a 
high primary mechanical stability are placed in the bone, osseointegration also 
occurs. In parallel with this development, Willert, from Göttingen, identified 
the most important cause of loosening of the prosthesis: he established that, 
when an artificial joint articulates, very fine particles of polyethylene are 
eroded from the prosthetic cup when the surfaces of the joint glide over one 
another and that these are only partially removed by the lymphatic system. A 
large proportion of the particles accumulates in the artificial joint and in the 
gap between the prosthesis and the bone, giving rise to foreign body 
granulomata, which resorb bone thus leading to loosening. The number of eroded 
particles is considerable. In 1998, Patricia Campbell, from Los Angeles, showed 
that 470,000 particles per step were produced from an articulation between a 
metal head and a polyethylene cup. This huge number gives an indication how 
small these particles are, since the linear erosion of the polyethylene surface 
only amounts to about 0.1 to 0.2 mm a year. This relatively recent recognition 
of "particle disease" has led to the investigation of other materials, which 
produce fewer erosion particles, for artificial joint articulations. Three 
possible options are available today, but it is not yet possible to decide for 
certain which of them is superior to the others: the longest experience has been 
with metal/metal articulation with articulatory pairings of 
cobalt/chromium/molybdenum alloy. In recent years, ceramic/ceramic articulations 
of aluminium oxide-ceramic and pairings of ceramic with highly crosslinked 
polyethylene have also been used. With these modern articulations, particle 
erosion can be reduced about 200 fold. If the erosion particles are an important 
cause of loosening of the prosthesis, it is reasonable to expect that, with 
these new joint pairings, the durability of an artificial joint can be 
substantially prolonged. The cone prosthesis described here has been developed 
on the basis of the knowledge and experience of the last 20 years. The conical 
anchoring of the stem, involving the placing of a conical implant in the 
conically reamed medullary cavity, results in continuous contact between the 
stem of the prosthesis and the bone, with a high degree of primary stability. 
The sharp longitudinal ribs on the stem, which cut a little into the bone, 
provide a high degree of rotational stability. In the case of conical fixation, 
the mechanical transmission of force varies with the diameter of the stem: the 
weight bearing surface of a cone in relation to its length is greater where the 
stem has a larger diameter than at the tip of the stem where the diameter is 
smaller. Therefore, for geometrical reasons, the conical fixation of the stem 
results in a transmission of force that is predominantly proximal and avoids 
proximal stress protection. The round cross-section permits free adjustment of 
the angle of anteversion and avoids any forced rotation as a result of bony 
deformity, which is very important in the case of dysplastic hips.

PMID: 11706545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Health Serv J. 2001 Nov 1;111(5779):22-5.

Health spending. Extra time.

Appleby J(1), Boyle S.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics.

The government is committed to raise spending on healthcare in the UK up to the 
European average by 2006. There is debate about the exact target figure, but 
agreement that the key consideration is how the extra money will be spent. If 
the UK is to achieve the EU average, it will probably have to increase private 
as well as public spending. To match German levels of staffing, the UK would 
need an extra 100,000 doctors and 300,000 nurses. There has been little analysis 
of how the extra expenditure will improve outcomes.

PMID: 11706805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Exp Biol. 2001 Oct;204(Pt 20):3531-45. doi: 10.1242/jeb.204.20.3531.

Maturation of muscle properties and its hormonal control in an adult insect.

Rose U(1), Ferber M, Hustert R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Neurobiologie, Universität Ulm, Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, D-89069 
Ulm, Germany. uwe.rose@biologie.uni-ulm.de

The oviposition of female locusts requires longitudinal muscles to tolerate 
remarkable lengthening. Whether this ability together with concomitant 
properties develops during maturation or is present throughout life was 
investigated. The properties of the locust abdominal muscles involved in 
oviposition behaviour were investigated with respect to their maturation, 
segment- and gender-specificity and regulation by juvenile hormone (JH). Muscles 
from the sixth abdominal segment (an oviposition segment) of mature females (>18 
days old) were able to tolerate large extensions (>8 mm). At this length, 
muscles were still able to generate considerable neurally evoked twitch tension. 
In contrast, muscle fibres from females less than 5 days old did not tolerate 
extension of more than 4 mm. At this length, tension generation was negligible. 
The maximum tension generated at different stimulus frequencies was 
significantly higher in muscles of females more than 18 days old than in females 
less than 5 days old. Furthermore, the cross-sectional area of muscle fibres 
increased significantly during reproductive development. Current-clamp 
recordings from denervated muscle fibres of females more than 18 days old 
revealed their ability to generate overshooting action potentials. The 
potentials were tetrodotoxin (TTX)-insensitive (0.5 micromol l(-1) TTX), but 
were blocked by Cd(2+) (50 micromol l(-1)) or nifedipine (50 micromol l(-1)), 
which suggests the involvement of L-type Ca(2+) channels. Action potentials 
recorded from females less than 5 days old differed considerably in amplitude 
and shape from those recorded from females more than 18 days old, suggesting 
their maturation during the first 2 weeks of adult life. Inactivation of the 
corpora allata (CA) by precocene inhibited the maturation of these muscle 
properties, whereas injection of JH into precocene-treated females reversed this 
effect. Homologous muscles from the third abdominal segment (a non-oviposition 
segment, M169) and muscles from males (M214) revealed no comparable changes, 
although some minor changes occurred during reproductive development. The 
results suggest a gender- and segment-specific maturation of muscle properties 
that is related to reproductive behaviour and controlled by JH.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.204.20.3531
PMID: 11707502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Obes Res. 2001 Nov;9 Suppl 4:244S-248S. doi: 10.1038/oby.2001.126.

Obesity in the elderly.

Elia M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton, United Kingdom. elia@soton.ac.uk

In developed countries, there is a general increase in body weight and body mass 
index (BMI) with age, until approximately 60 years of age, when body weight and 
BMI begin to decline. The proportion of intra-abdominal fat, which is related to 
increased morbidity and mortality, progressively increases with age. There is 
also a progressive decline in energy intake and daily total energy expenditure 
(165 kcal/decade in men and 103 kcal/decade in women in developed countries), 
which is primarily due to a decrease in physical activity, and to a lesser 
extent, a decrease in basal metabolic rate. The decrease in physical activity is 
more pronounced in those with chronic disabilities and diseases. The 
BMI-mortality curves have been reported to move upward (greater overall 
mortality), become flatter (less effect of BMI on mortality), and in some cases 
shift to the right (minimum mortality occurs at a higher BMI), for a variety of 
possible reasons. Weight loss in the elderly has been reported to increase, 
decrease, or not alter mortality, but the studies are confounded by numerous 
methodological problems. It has been argued that there may be little benefit in 
encouraging weight loss in extreme old age (short life expectancy), especially 
when there are no obesity-related complications or biochemical risk factors and 
when strong resistance and distress arise from changes in lifelong habits of 
eating and exercise. In contrast, weight loss in the elderly can reduce 
morbidity from arthritis, diabetes and other conditions, reduce cardiovascular 
risk factors, and improve well-being. BMI also predicts morbidity in those 
without disease. Furthermore, increased physical activity in the elderly, which 
is an important component of weight management, can produce beneficial effects 
on muscle strength, endurance, and well-being.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2001.126
PMID: 11707549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Biogerontology. 2000;1(3):235-46. doi: 10.1023/a:1010034213093.

From life to death--the struggle between chemistry and biology during aging: the 
Maillard reaction as an amplifier of genomic damage.

Baynes JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, College of Science and Mathematics, 
School of Medicine, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA. 
baynes@mail.chem.sc.edu

Biogerontology is the study of the aging of biological systems. This review 
addresses the relationship between chemistry and biology during aging, proposing 
that chemistry is responsible for the aging of biological systems. In the 
continuing struggle between chemistry and biology, chemistry is always the 
short-term, tactical winner--death of the individual is inevitable. However, 
barring the extinction of species, biology is the long-term, strategic 
victor--life survives, and the struggle continues. The rate of random chemical 
damage to the genome is considered the major factor determining lifespan of 
species. Oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species are recognized as a 
primary source of damage in aging and chronic disease. The Maillard reaction, 
involving nonenzymatic, oxidative reactions of carbohydrate and lipid 
substrates, is seen as an amplifier of reactive oxygen damage. Maillard reaction 
products in protein are viewed as integrators of cumulative damage by reactive 
oxygen, and possibly as initiators of protective responses, but the primary 
factor affecting lifespan is identified as silent cumulative damage to the 
genome, resulting from imperfect repair. Maillard reaction inhibitors show 
promise for treatment of chronic diseases, such as diabetes and atherosclerosis, 
and also have a positive effect on health in normal animals. Future studies 
should focus on evaluation of the effects of these inhibitors on genomic damage 
and lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010034213093
PMID: 11707900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. State Legis. 2001 Jan;27(1):24-7.

Taking the pulse of public health.

Boulard G.

PMID: 11708350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Biogerontology. 2001;2(1):35-44. doi: 10.1023/a:1010091315368.

Heating stress patterns in Caenorhabditis elegans longevity and survivorship.

Michalski AI(1), Johnson TE, Cypser JR, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Control Sciences, Moscow, Russia.

Survival data from Caenorhabditis elegans strain TJ1060 (spe-9; fer-15) 
following brief exposure to 35 degrees C have been investigated. Three 
experiments with 3-day-old worms were conducted with heat duration ranging 
between 0 and 12 hours. A statistically significant increase in life expectancy 
was observed in the groups heated for less than 2 hours, as compared to the 
unheated control groups. In different experiments P-values for the observed life 
spans under the hypothesis that heating has no influence on longevity were P < 
0.004 after 0.5 hour heat, P < 0.012 after 1 hour heat and P < 0.055 after 2 
hours of heating. A biphasic survival model with Gamma distributed frailty has 
been constructed to describe the survival of worms after heating. The increase 
in the remaining life expectancy is determined by more effective protection by 
heat-induced substances in the ages yanger than 27 days. The unheated control 
group demonstrated acquired heterogeneity of frailty with chronological age 
while the heat-induced substances defend the worms in a universal way and 
protect against the development of frailty.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010091315368
PMID: 11708615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2001;58:17-36.

Chapter 2. The development and distribution of public health. Health in Sweden: 
The National Public Health Report 2001.

Boström G(1), Persson G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology, National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, 
Sweden. gunnel.bostrom@sos.se

PMID: 11708625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2001;58:219-30.

Chapter 10. The importance of health and medical care for public health. Health 
in Sweden: The National Public Health Report 2001.

Rosén M(1), Haglund B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology, National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, 
Sweden. mans.rosen@sos.se

PMID: 11708628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2001;58:231-9.

Chapter 11. Public health in the future. Health in Sweden: The National Public 
Health Report 2001.

Haglund B(1), Rosén M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology, National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, 
Sweden. bengt.haglund@sos.se

PMID: 11708629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Ann Epidemiol. 2001 Nov;11(8):547-53. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(01)00254-x.

Measuring the public health burden of cancer in the United States through 
lifetime and age-conditional risk estimates.

Merrill RM(1), Weed DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, College of Health and Human Performance, 
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA.

PURPOSE: Effects of an aging population in the United States on lifetime and 
age-conditional risk estimates of developing site-specific cancers are 
identified and the potential role these statistics play in monitoring disease 
burden discussed.
METHODS: Risk estimates were derived by applying cross-sectional 
population-based incidence rates of cancer and mortality rates from other causes 
to a hypothetical cohort. The cohort was aged through a double decrement life 
table to determine the expected proportion of the population that would develop 
the disease.
RESULTS: Despite black men having higher invasive cancer incidence rates than 
white men, and black and white women having similar rates, because of the better 
life expectancy among whites lifetime risk estimates of developing cancer are 
higher for whites than blacks: 45.5% in white men, 40.4% in black men, 39.2% in 
white women, and 32.4% in black women based on 1995-97 data. White men 
experience higher 10-year cancer risk than black men in only bladder cancer, 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL), and leukemia. White women tended to show a 
greater risk than black women for cancers of the breast, corpus uteri, ovary, 
NHL, and leukemia. For both whites and blacks, the 10-year risk of lung cancer 
ranks first among men aged 40, ranks second to prostate cancer for men aged 50, 
60, and 70, and ranks second to breast cancer for women aged 40, 50, 60, and 70.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime and age-conditional risk measures reflect both changes in 
the disease incidence rates and age distribution over calendar time such that 
they are useful for monitoring the disease burden in the population. Even if 
cancer rates remain stable or fall, it is possible for the cancer burden, as 
reflected by lifetime and age-conditional risk estimates, to increase due to the 
aging population.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(01)00254-x
PMID: 11709274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Pac Health Dialog. 2000 Mar;7(1):38-47.

Disparities in health: common myths and uncommon truths.

Reid P(1), Robson B, Jones CP.

Author information:
(1)Te Rōpū Rangahau Hauora a Eru Pōmare (Eru Pōmare Māori Health Research 
Centre), Wellington School of Medicine, University of Otago, PO Box 7343, 
Wellington South. hauora@wnmeds.ac.nz

A reappraisal of disparities by deprivation provides new and important 
information. NZDep96 is an area-based index of socioeconomic deprivation that 
uses nine variables measured in the 1996 census. The distribution of the Māori 
ethnic group is sharply skewed towards the most deprived deciles with only three 
percent in decile 1 and twenty-six percent residing in decile 10 meshblocks. 
More than half (56%) of Māori live in areas represented by the three most 
deprived deciles. This pattern is consistent within both sectors of the Māori 
ethnic group: sole Māori--those who give Māori as their only ethnicity and mixed 
Māori--those who give Māori as only one of their ethnicities. This is a 
'distribution gap'. Within disparities analysis, there is also evidence of an 
'outcome gap'. That is, the health outcomes of Māori are different from 
non-Māori, even after controlling for deprivation. For example, overseas data on 
life expectancy at birth have demonstrated social class gradients with lower 
life expectancy among manual workers and increasing life expectancy for 
trades-people, through to managerial and professional workers. This gradient is 
also evident in Aotearoa with life expectancy at birth decreasing as deprivation 
increases. A third dimension is evident in a review of disparities by 
deprivation,--a 'gradient gap'. This describes the relationship between 
ethnicity and increasing deprivation. It is as if the effect of increasing 
deprivation compounds risk for Māori whereas Pākehā do not seem subject to this 
effect. Analyses that foreground disparities have been portrayed as oppositional 
or secondary to Māori health development. In such frameworks where a disparity 
focus intersects with a development focus, the impression is given that the two 
are interconnected but move past each other in different directions. Our 
analysis promotes the disparities focus and the development focus as parallel 
reinforcing variables, each informing the other in the design and provision of 
services that have as their starting point, Māori needs. These services offer 
hope and opportunity for Māori but risk the vulnerability of special provision 
services (e.g. cuts in government expenditure). Furthermore the may delay the 
imperative of addressing the societal drivers that perpetuate disparities. This 
tension to engage in remedial reform is an important dilemma in Māori health 
development.

PMID: 11709879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2001;10(2):154-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-6047.2001.00232.x.

Okinawa: an exception to the social gradient of life expectancy in Japan.

Cockerham WC(1), Yamori Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-3350, 
USA. wcocker@uab.edu

This paper examines why the social gradient of life expectancy does not apply in 
Japan when Okinawa is considered. The social gradient thesis links differences 
in longevity to social rank, with people and populations in higher status 
hierarchical positions having lower mortality and longer life expectancies than 
those beneath them in the social scale. Japan has been cited as a major example 
of this thesis in that Japanese life expectancy improved dramatically as Japan 
rose to the top echelon of nations in economic rank in the late 20th century. 
Thus it follows that Japan's most affluent and leading prefectures should be the 
major catalysts behind the nation's rise in life expectancy as well to the 
number one position in the world. However, this is not the case as life 
expectancy in Okinawa, Japan's poorest prefecture, exceeds that of Japan as a 
whole. We find that the social gradient of life expectancy does not apply at the 
prefectural level and question its validity for geographical areas. We suggest 
that healthy lifestyles, especially diet and the social support of family and 
friends, are more important than sense of hierarchy for longevity in Okinawa.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-6047.2001.00232.x
PMID: 11710357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Neoplasma. 2001;48(4):320-3.

Postoperative radiotherapy of childhood medulloblastomas.

Kocsis B(1), Székely G, Pap L, Takácsi-Nagy Z, Németh G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Haynal Imre Medical University, National 
Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.

The purpose of this work is to review the result of radiotherapy in the 
treatment of medulloblastoma in pediatric patients. Between 1986 and 1998, 66 
children (45 boys and 21 girls) received postoperative irradiation in our 
institute. Their mean age was 8.29 years. Irradiation was performed by linear 
accelerator, 36 Gy were applied in the high risk group (partial tumor resection, 
tumor cell positivity in the liquor, metastases within the central nervous 
system) and 30 Gy in the low risk group (total tumor resection, negative liquor 
cytology, no metastases within the central nervous system) on the entire 
cerebrum and spinal cord. This was followed in both groups by the application of 
20-20 Gy boost irradiation on the posterior scala. Studying the survival it has 
been found that the surgical radicality did not significantly influence the 
survival chances of patients, however, with the increase in the tumor size the 
survival chance significantly decreases (p = 0.03). When predicting life 
expectancy, however, the stage of tumor, the age of patients, the risk group and 
the M stage yielded essential information. At the age of 8 years and less, the 
rate of survivors is 67.6%, for those over 8 years is 75.9% (p = 0.21), however 
the younger age was not significant. The appearance of metastases considerably 
deteriorates the chances of survival (from 81.5% to 66.7%, p = 0.02). In the low 
risk group of patients the 5-year survival is 80%, while in the high risk group 
it is significantly lower, 67.4% (p = 0.04).

PMID: 11712686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2861-5.

Prognostic importance of the uPa/PAI-1 complex in breast cancer.

Sten-Linder M(1), Seddighzadeh M, Engel G, Rutqvist LE, Linder S, Skoog L, Wima 
B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Blood Coagulation, Karolinska Hospital, 
Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. margareta.sten-linder@ks.se

The complex between urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and its inhibitor 
PAI-1 (plasminogen activator inhibitor 1) has been prognostically evaluated in 
patients with breast cancer. The concentrations of uPA antigen, PAI-1 antigen 
and the uPA/PAI-1 complex were analysed in extracts from breast cancer tumours 
from 233 patients (median follow-up of patients: 71months). The uPA/PAI-1 
complex typically constituted about 5% of the uPA antigen (total uPA). The 
concentration of complex was found to correlate more strongly to the 
concentration of PAI-1 (r = 0.72; p < 0.0001) than to the concentration of uPA 
(r = 0.55: p < 0.0001). Interestingly, in this material the uPA/PAI-1 complex 
(using an optimised cutoff level of 0.22 ng microg(-1) DNA) had a stronger 
prognostic value than optimised cut-off valuesfor uPA or PAI-1. The data suggest 
that activation of prourokinase within the tumour, which is a prerequisite for 
the formation of the uPA/PAI-1 complex, is of better prognostic value than the 
production of prourokinase or PAI-1 in the breast cancer tumour.

PMID: 11712777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2883-7.

Binding of mistletoe lectins to cutaneous malignant melanoma: implications for 
prognosis and therapy.

Thies A(1), Pfüller U, Schachner M, Horny HP, Molls I, Schumacher U.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Anatomy, University of Witten/Herdecke, Witten, Germany. 
thies@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Glycoconjugates, as detected by lectin histochemistry, have been 
implicated in metastasis formation in many neoplasias. However, no data 
concerning the three mistletoe lectins (MLs) and the spread of malignant 
melanoma have been published.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The binding status of ML-I, -II and -III was 
histochemically assessed in 100 malignant melanomas and correlated with 
metastasis in a 10 year follow-up period. Furthermore, the staining intensity of 
the three MLs, scored from negative (-) to very intense (+ + +), was evaluated.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier analsis revealed that very intense binding (+ + +) of ML-I 
was positively-correlated with metastasis (p=0.044).
CONCLUSION: Since ML-I is specific for galactose, high density galactose 
expression in malignant melanoma is a predictor of poor prognosis.

PMID: 11712781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2933-6.

A new staging system based on tumor volume in gastric cancer.

Kikuchi S(1), Sakuramoto S, Kobayashi N, Shimao H, Sakakibara Y, Sato K, Kakita 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Kitasato University, 
Sagamihara-shi, Kanagawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Development of a more appropriate staging system for gastric cancer 
may prove useful in clinical practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 171 patients with solitary carcinoma of the 
stomach (112 males and 59 females; age range, 20 to 84 years; mean, 57.7 years) 
who underwent curative surgery were examined. The volume of each tumor was 
measured from serial tumor tissue sections using a computer software program. 
The utility of a new staging system based on tumor volume was assessed with 
respect to patient survival in comparison with other clinicopathological factors 
and conventional staging.
RESULTS: Significant differences in survival time were found for depth of 
invasion (T1 vs T2 or T3; p=0.008), nodal status (n0 vs n1 or n2; p=0.032), 
tumor volume (< or = 2,000 mm vs >2,000 mm3; p<0.001) and stage (stage I vs 
stage II, III or IV; p =0. 003). However, multivariate analysis only identified 
tumor volume as a significant prognostic factor in the present study (p <0.001; 
relative risk 10.351).
CONCLUSION: The above findings suggest that a new staging system based on tumor 
volume may have advantages over the conventional staging system in the 
assessment of gastric cancer.

PMID: 11712789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2937-40.

Impact of hepatitis B and C virus infection on the clinical prognosis of 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis.

Yamanaka T(1), Shiraki K, Nakazaawa S, Okano H, Ito T, Deguchi M, Takase K, 
Nakano T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Mie University School of Medicine, 
Tsu, Japan.

To elucidate the rates of appearance of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the 
prognosis of alcoholic liver cirrhosis upon infection with hepatitis virus, we 
retrospectively studied 190 consecutive patients. The patients were divided into 
three groups based on whether they were exposed either to hepatitis B virus 
(HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV) or not. The cumulative survival rate of the 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) was 
significantly lower than that in those with hepatitis C antibody (anti-HCV). 
Most alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients without hepatitis virus infection died 
of liver failure, gastrointestinal (G1) bleeding, or other diseases. However, 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients with anti-HCV tended to die of HCC. The 
cumulative HCC appearance rate in alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients without 
HBsAg or anti-HCV was 7% at the end of the fifth year after the diagnosis of 
cirrhosis and 15% at the end of the tenth year. However; the HCC appearance rate 
was about 20% at the end of the fifth year after the diagnosis of cirrhosis and 
about 50% at the end of the tenth year in both alcohol drinkers with HBsAg or 
anti-HCV. These data suggest that hepatitis virus infection may modify the 
prognosis for alcoholic liver cirrhosis patients, especially in the development 
of carcinogenesis.

PMID: 11712790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2963-7.

A comparative study of subcutaneous mastectomy with radical mastectomy.

Horiguchi J(1), Iino JHY, Takei H, Koibuchi Y, Iijima K, Ikeda F, Ochiai R, 
Uchida K, Yoshida M, Yokoe T, Morishita Y.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Gunma University Faculty of Medicine, Maebashi, 
Japan. junhorig@showa.gunma-u.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to compare the results of 133 cases (131 patients) 
of subcutaneous mastectomy with axillary dissection between 1983 and 1999 and 
910 cases of radical mastectomy during the same period. The median follow-up 
period of the subcutaneous mastectomy group and the radical mastectomy group 
were 66 months and 81 months, respectively. The age at operation was 
significantly (p<0.01) younger in the subcutaneous mastectomy group than in the 
radical mastectomy group and the clinical stage was significantly (p<0.01) 
earlier. Lymph node metastasis was significantly (p<0.01) higher in the radical 
mastectomy than in the subcutaneous mastectomy group. There was no difference in 
ER status between the two groups. There was local recurrence in 5 (3.8%) members 
of the subcutaneous mastectomy group and in 12 (1.3%) members of the radical 
mastectomy group. There was no difference in disease-free survival and overall 
survival between the two groups. Divided into two subgroups by lymph node 
status, there was no difference in disease-free survival and overall survival 
between the two groups. Local recurrence occurred more frequently (p<0.05) in 
the subcutaneous mastectomy group, however, than in the radical mastectomy group 
when no lymph node metastasis was found. Multivariate analysis using the Cox 
hazard model showed that operation method and lymph node status were independent 
prognostic factors for local recurrence, whereas, lymph node status and ER 
status were independent prognostic factors of disease-free survival. In 
conclusion, subcutaneous mastectomy presents a risk factor for local recurrence, 
but the survival rate of the subcutaneous mastectomy group is as favourable as 
the radical mastectomy group.

PMID: 11712794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):2983-7.

Thrombospondin-1 and -2 messenger RNA expression in epithelial ovarian tumor.

Kodama J(1), Hashimoto I, Seki N, Hongo A, Yoshinouchi M, Okuda H, Kudo T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Okayama University Medical School, 
Japan. kodama@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The role of thrombospondin (TSP) in tumor progression remains 
controversial. The association of TSP with clinicopathological features 
regarding prognostic significance was examined in patients with epithelial 
ovarian tumor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Gene expression of TSP-1 and TSP-2 was assessed by 
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in 6 borderline and 29 malignant 
epithelial ovarian tumors.
RESULTS: TSP-1 mRNA expression was detected in 14 out of the 29 malignant 
epithelial ovarian tumors (48.3%), whereas TSP-2 mRNA expression was detected in 
7 malignant epithelial ovarian tumors (24.1%). In contrast, no specimen from the 
borderline epithelial ovarian tumors expressed TSP mRNA. TSP-1 expression was 
significantly higher in tumors with advanced stage, massive ascites, positive 
peritoneal cytology and high grade. TSP-2 expression was significantly higher in 
tumors with massive ascites. Patients exhibiting TSP-1 and -2 mRNA expression 
demonstrated a markedly poorer prognosis than those lacking TSP-1 and -2 mRNA 
expression.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide evidence that TSP expression may be 
associated with an aggressive phenotype in this class of neoplasm.

PMID: 11712798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):3005-10.

An out-patient second-line chemotherapy with gemcitabine and vinorelbine in 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy. A phase II study of the Hellenic co-operative Oncology Group.

Pectasides D(1), Kalofonos HP, Samantas E, Nicolaides C, Papacostas P, Onyenadum 
A, Visvikis A, Skarlos D, Fountzilas G.

Author information:
(1)HeCOG Data Office, Athens, Greece.

Thirty-nine patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer, refractory or 
resistant to platinum or taxanes derivatives were treated on an out-patient 
basis with vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 intravenous (I.V.) on days 1 and 8 followed by 
gemcitabine 800 mg/m2 l.V. on days 1 and 8. Chemotherapy was repeated every 3 
weeks. The patients were evaluated for response every two cycles of treatment. 
All 39 patients were assessable for toxicity and 35 were assessable for 
response. On an intent to treat analysis, only 1 (2.6%) patient achieved a 
partial response (PR) (95% CI 0.09% to 17.6%); fourteen patients (35.9%, 95% CI 
29.45% to 67.4%) had stable disease (SD) and 24 (61.5%) had progressive disease 
(PD). The median time to tumor progression (TTP) was 4.7 months (range 0.13 to 
18.9 months), the median survival time was 7.3 months (range 0.6 to 18.9 months) 
and the 1-year survival rate was 35%. Clinical benefit response including 
improvement of PS, dyspnea and anorexia, pain and cough reduction and cessation 
of hemoptysis and fever was observed in 10% to 50% of patients. Grade 3/4 
neutropenia occurred only in 2 (5.2%) patients. Five patients experienced 
febrile neutropenia, which was successfully treated with G-CSF and 
broad-spectrum antibiotics. No patient experienced grade 3/4 anaemia or 
thrombocytopenia. One patient experienced grade 4 fatigue and stopped the 
treatment. Nausea / vomiting, fatigue, neurotoxicity, diarrhea and fever were 
mild in the majority of patients and did not result in any clinically 
significant problem. There were no treatment-related deaths. In conclusion, the 
combination of gemcitabine and vinorelbine showed low objective response rate in 
patients previously treated with CDDP/taxanes-containing regimens. This regimen 
was relatively well-tolerated and was associated with prolonged 1-year survival 
and improvement in cancer related symptoms. To validate these findings a 
randomized trial of gemcitabine and vinorelbine versus taxotere or best 
supportive care is required.

PMID: 11712802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):3061-7.

Chemotherapy and concomitant irradiation in inflammatory breast cancer.

Tubiana-Mathieu N(1), Lejeune C, Bonnier P, Genet D, Adjadj DJ, Berda JF, 
Muracciole X, Delaby F, Clavere P, Benyoub A, Rhein B, Juin B, Piana L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Radiotherapy CHU DUPUYTREN, Limoges, 
France. oncologie@chu-limoges.fr

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of concurrent 
chemotherapy and irradiation in inflammatory breast cancer (IBC). Between 
January 1990 and December 1998, forty-eight non-metastatic patients with 
clinical or occult IBC were treated with chemotherapy and irradiation. The 
induction chemotherapy consisted of epirubicin, cyclophosphamide and vindesin, 
in association with split-course bi-fractionated irradiation to a total dose of 
65 Gy with concomitant cisplatin and fluorouracil. Maintenance chemotherapy 
consisted of high-dose methotrexate and 6 cycles of epirubicin, cyclophosphamide 
and fluorouracil Hormonal treatment was given routinely but mastectomies were 
not routinely performed. A high rate of locoregional control was obtained in 47 
evaluable patients of whom 93.6 % achieved a complete clinical response. Three 
patients had locoregional relapses, always with concomitant metastatic 
dissemination. In 47 patients, 21 developed metastatic dissemination with a 
median delay of 23 months. Median disease-free survival (DFS) was 45 months. 
Median overall survival (OS) has not yet been reached after a median follow-up 
of 44.5 months. The 3-year DFS rate was 53 % and the 3-year OS rate was 71 %. 
Toxicity was mainly hematological. During the induction therapy, grade 3 or 4 
neutropenia occurred in 54 % of patients, grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia in 23 % 
and grade 3 or 4 anemia in 8 %. The administration of induction chemotherapy and 
concomitant irradiation is feasible in patients with IBC. The hematological 
toxicity of this treatment approach is significant but nevertheless, the 
treatment achieves a high degree of locoregional control and improved survivaL

PMID: 11712811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):3075-9.

A polymorphism of the XRCC1 gene predicts for response to platinum based 
treatment in advanced colorectal cancer.

Stoehlmacher J(1), Ghaderi V, Iobal S, Groshen S, Tsao-Wei D, Park D, Lenz HJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los 
Angeles 90033, USA.

Recently, it has been demonstrated that the Arg399Gln substitution in the XRCC1 
gene is associated with increased levels of markers of DNA damage. Deficiency in 
DNA repair pathways has been shown to confer to resistance to several drugs, 
including platinum compounds. Here we have studied whether this polymorphism of 
the XRCCI gene will predict response and survival of patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer treated with oxaliplatin and 5-FU. Sixty-one patients received 
a combination of 130 mg/m2 oxaliplatin and continuous infusion 5-FU. The XRCC1 
polymorphism was evaluated using a RFLP method. We found 73% (8/11) of 
responders had an Arg/Arg genotype and three were heterozygous, but 66% (33/50) 
of non-responders showed a Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg genotype (p=0.038). Patients 
carrying at least one Gln mutant allele were at a 5.2 (95%CI: 1.21,22.07) fold 
increased risk to fail the 5-FU/oxaliplatin chemotherapy. The data suggest that 
the polymorphism in exon 10 of the XRCC1 gene may be associated with resistance 
to oxaliplatin/5-FU chemotherapy in advanced colorectal cancer.

PMID: 11712813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Anticancer Res. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4B):3101-6.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and its prognostic value in 
prostate cancer.

Aaltoma SH(1), Lipponen PK, Kosma VM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kuopio University Hospital, Finland. 
sirpa.aaltomaa@kuh.fi

OBJECTIVES: The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was 
evaluated in prostate cancer and the results were compared with other prognostic 
factors and patients outcome.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinical and histopathological data and follow-up 
information of 198 prostate cancer (PC) patients treated between the years 1973 
and 1992 at Kuopio University Hospital, Finland were collected from patient 
files. Archival tumor specimens were used for immunohistochemical analysis of 
iNOS. The expression of iNOS was analysed by light microscopy and the expression 
was scored into 3 grades (negative weak or strong).
RESULTS: iNOS was expressed in tumor cells and in inflammatory cells inside and 
around the tumor. Normal and hyperplastic prostate tissues adjacent to tumors 
were negative or weakly positive for iNOS. The strong iNOS expression in tumor 
cells was related to high T-classification (p=0.001), metastasis (p=0.06), high 
Gleason score (p=0.0004), DNA aneuploidy (p=0.0001) and perineural infiltration 
(p=0.0001). iNOS expression was not linked with the density of tumor 
infiltrating lymphocytes or the expression of p53. The mean values of Ki-67, 
mitotic index and S-phase fraction were higher in tumors strongly expressing 
iNOS. In univariate survival analysis the strong expression of iNOS was a 
significant predictor of poor survival in the entire cohort (p=0.0002) and in 
the MO patients (p=0.008), but was not an independent predictor of survival in 
Cox's multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: iNOS has been related to stimulative and suppressive effects on 
cancer cell growth, but the prognostic value of iNOS has not been previously 
studied in PC. Here we could demonstrate an association between strong iNOS 
expression and rapid cancer cell proliferation rate, dedifferentiation and 
advanced stage cancer. The strong iNOS expression was a predictor of poor 
survival in univariate analysis, but was inferior to established prognostic 
factors in multivariate analysis.

PMID: 11712818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Ann Intern Med. 2001 Nov 20;135(10):870-83. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-135-10-200111200-00007.

Potential cost-effectiveness of prophylactic use of the implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator or amiodarone after myocardial infarction.

Sanders GD(1), Hlatky MA, Every NR, McDonald KM, Heidenreich PA, Parsons LS, 
Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, 179 Encina Commons, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305-6019, USA. sanders@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials have shown that implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators (ICDs) improve survival in patients with sustained ventricular 
arrhythmias.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy necessary to make prophylactic ICD or 
amiodarone therapy cost-effective in patients with myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: Markov model-based cost utility analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Survival, cardiac death, and inpatient costs were estimated on the 
basis of the Myocardial Infarction Triage and Intervention registry. Other data 
were derived from the literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients with past myocardial infarction who did not have 
sustained ventricular arrhythmia.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: ICD or amiodarone compared with no treatment.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, number 
needed to treat, and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with no treatment, ICD use led to the 
greatest QALYs and the highest expenditures. Amiodarone use resulted in 
intermediate QALYs and costs. To obtain acceptable cost-effectiveness thresholds 
(</=$75,000/QALY), ICDs had to reduce arrhythmic death by 50% and amiodarone had 
to reduce total death by 7% in patients with depressed ejection fraction.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: For moderate efficacies, in patients with 
ejection fractions less than or equal to 0.3, 0.31 to 0.4, and greater than 0.4, 
