the cost-effectiveness of amiodarone compared with no therapy was $43,100/QALY, 
$66,500/QALY, and $132,500/QALY, respectively, and the cost-effectiveness of ICD 
compared with amiodarone was $71,800/QALY, $195,700/QALY, and $557,900/QALY, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of ICD or amiodarone in patients with past myocardial 
infarction and severely depressed left ventricular function may provide 
substantial clinical benefit at an acceptable cost. These results highlight the 
importance of clinical trials of ICDs in patients with low ejection fractions 
who have had myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-135-10-200111200-00007
PMID: 11712877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. JAMA. 2001 Nov 21;286(19):2437-40. doi: 10.1001/jama.286.19.2437.

Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy in Hispanic New Mexicans.

Becher MW(1), Morrison L, Davis LE, Maki WC, King MK, Bicknell JM, Reinert BL, 
Bartolo C, Bear DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of New Mexico HSC, BMSB 
149, 915 Camino de Salud NE, Albuquerque, NM 87131, USA.

CONTEXT: Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a rare myopathy caused by 
polyalanine triplet repeat expansion in the gene for poly(A) binding protein 2 
(PABP2) and is found in isolated cohorts throughout the world. We have observed 
numerous cases of OPMD in New Mexico.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the clinical, genetic, and demographic features of 
the OPMD population in New Mexico.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Cohort study with analysis of outpatient 
clinic medical records from 1965 to 2001 at the University of New Mexico 
Hospital and the New Mexico VA Health Care System in Albuquerque, which serve 
the entire state.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical phenotype, supplemented with genetic 
confirmation (n = 10 patients) and in-depth clinical evaluations (n = 49 
patients).
RESULTS: We identified 216 cases of OPMD (99 women and 117 men) from 39 kindreds 
of New Mexicans spanning up to 4 generations. All patients were Hispanic, and 
the majority of probands came from northern New Mexico. In patients who had both 
ocular and pharyngeal muscle weakness, ptosis was just as likely to occur before 
or concurrent with dysphagia. Proximal limb muscle weakness and gait 
abnormalities were common and occurred later than ocular or pharyngeal weakness. 
The clinical expression of OPMD caused marked debility, although life-table 
analysis showed no decrease in life expectancy compared with unaffected family 
members (P =.81). Ten individuals from different kindreds were found to have an 
identical polyalanine triplet repeat expansion ([GCG](9)) in the PABP2 gene.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals in this cohort had clinical and genetic characteristics 
of classic OPMD. Longevity was not affected, but patients experienced 
considerable morbidity. The origin of the PABP2 mutation in New Mexican OPMD 
patients is unclear, although the geographic and genetic isolation of northern 
New Mexicans with a long ancestry in this region may have contributed to the 
development of this cohort. This disease cohort represents a large and 
previously unrecognized health care issue in the state of New Mexico and should 
serve to raise the awareness of this disorder among clinicians who treat 
Hispanics in the Southwest and throughout the United States.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.286.19.2437
PMID: 11712939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Bull Cancer. 2001 Oct;88(10):985-1006.

[Standards, options and recommendations: nutritional support in palliative or 
terminal care of adult patients with progressive cancer].

[Article in French]

Bachmann P(1), Marti-Massoud C, Blanc-Vincent MP, Desport JC, Colomb V, Dieu L, 
Kere D, Melchior JC, Nitenberg G, Raynard B, Roux-Bournay P, Schneider S, 
Senesse P.

Author information:
(1)Centre Léon-Bérard, Lyon.

CONTEXT: The "Standards, Options and Recommendations" (SOR) project, started in 
1993, is a collaboration between the National Federation of Comprehensive Cancer 
Centres (FNCLCC), the 20 French Cancer Centers and specialists from French 
Public Universities, General Hospitals and Private Clinics. The main objective 
is the development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of 
health care and outcome for cancer patients. The methodology is based on 
literature review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of 
experts, with feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery.
OBJECTIVES: To develop clinical practice guidelines according to the definitions 
of the Standards, Options and Recommendations project for nutritional support in 
adult patients with advanced or terminal cancer.
METHODS: Data were identified by searching Medline, web sites and using the 
personal reference lists of members of the expert groups. Once the guidelines 
were defined, the document was submitted for review to 95 independent reviewers.
RESULTS: The main recommendations for nutritional support in adult patients with 
advanced or terminal cancer are: 1) Palliative care has been defined in a 
consensual way and is governed by the law (standard). Nutritional support is a 
palliative care which aim is to maintain and restore the "well-being" of the 
patient (standard). 2) Digestive symptoms and nutritional troubles are 
frequently noted in patients with advanced or terminal cancer (standard, level 
of evidence B2). Karnofsky index (KPS) and performance status (PS) are 
functional scores with a prognostic value and have to be used (standard, level 
of evidence B2). 3) Anorexia has a bad predictive value in patients with 
advanced or terminal cancer (standard, level of evidence B2). 4) In France, 
patients with advanced or terminal cancer are referred to medical institutions, 
palliative care units or remained at home (standard). Patients need a 
multidisciplinary follow-up (standard). An active participation of patients 
and/or their family circle is very important and physicians have to pay 
attention for their opinions (standard). 5) Dietetic counseling can help 
patients to improve their alimentation and its drawbacks (standard). 6) 
Palliative nutritional care often includes medicinal treatments (standard). 7) 
Artificial nutrition can slow down nutritional degradation, avoid dehydration 
and improve quality of life in patients with advanced stage cancer (especially 
head and neck cancer for enteral nutrition and digestive occlusions for 
parenteral nutrition) and unable to eat adapted meals (standard, level of 
evidence C). 8) When life expectancy is below 3 months with a KPS 3/4 50% (or PS 
> 2), artificial nutrition is not recommended (recommendation, expert 
agreement). 9) The assessment of nutritional care in patients with advanced or 
terminal cancer has to include functional scores measurement, quality of life 
and satisfaction degree of the patient and/or their family (standard, expert 
agreement).

PMID: 11713035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Ophthalmology. 2001 Nov;108(11):2051-9. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(01)00764-3.

The cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy for fellow eyes with subfoveal 
choroidal neovascularization secondary to age-related macular degeneration.

Sharma S(1), Brown GC, Brown MM, Hollands H, Shah GK.

Author information:
(1)The Cost-Effective Ocular Health Policy Unit, Hotel Dieu Hospital, Queen's 
University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2003 Apr;110(4):626-7; author reply 627-8.
    Ophthalmology. 2003 Jun;110(6):1263-4; author reply 1264-5.

PURPOSE: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has recently been demonstrated to be 
beneficial for the treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary 
to age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Herein, we determine the 
cost-effectiveness of PDT for the treatment of subfoveal choroidal 
neovascularization (CNV) in patients with disciform degeneration in one eye and 
whose second and better-seeing eye develops visual loss secondary to 
predominantly classic subfoveal CNV. The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of a for-profit third-party insurer.
DESIGN: Cost-utility Markov models were created to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of PDT under two different scenarios, by using efficacy data 
derived from the Treatment of Age-Related Macular Degeneration with Photodynamic 
Therapy (TAP) Study and patient-based utilities.
METHODS: Decision analyses were performed by incorporating data from the TAP 
Study, expected longevity data, and patient-based utilities. Cost-effective 
models were then created by incorporating incremental medical costs. Various 
sensitivity analyses were carried out to determine the robustness of our models. 
A Monte Carlo simulation was also used to determine whether there was a 
significant difference in quality-of-life adjusted years (QALYs) gained between 
PDT therapy and the placebo.
RESULTS: For the hypothetical patient whose second and better-seeing eye becomes 
affected and who has 20/40 vision at baseline in this affected eye (base case 
1), PDT was associated with a 10.7% relative increase in their quality-of-life 
(treatment conferred an additional undiscounted 0.1342 QALYs over a 2-year 
period). For the hypothetical patient whose second and better-seeing eye becomes 
affected and who has 20/200 vision at baseline in this affected eye (base case 
2), PDT was associated with a 7.8% relative increase in their quality-of-life 
(treatment conferred an additional undiscounted 0.0669 QALYs over a 2-year 
period). Sensitivity analysis showed our models were robust and that PDT was 
usually the dominant treatment choice. Our cost-effective model demonstrated 
that the cost for a QALY was $86,721 (US dollars discounted at 3%) for base case 
1, assuming 5.5 treatments; and $173,984 (USD discounted at 3%) for base case 2.
CONCLUSIONS: PDT will cost a third-party insurer $86,721 for an AMD patient with 
20/40 vision in the better-seeing eye to obtain one QALY and $173,984 for an AMD 
patient with 20/200 vision in the better-seeing eye to obtain one QALY. PDT can 
be considered to be a treatment that is of only minimal cost-effectiveness for 
AMD patients who have subfoveal CNV in their second and better-seeing eyes and 
who have good presenting visual acuity at baseline. It is a cost-ineffective 
treatment for AMD patients who have poor visual acuities in their affected 
better-seeing eyes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(01)00764-3
PMID: 11713079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Pediatr. 2001 Nov;139(5):656-63. doi: 10.1067/mpd.2001.117583.

Outcome at 10 years of severe vesicoureteric reflux managed medically: Report of 
the International Reflux Study in Children.

Smellie JM(1), Jodal U, Lax H, Möbius TT, Hirche H, Olbing H; Writing Committee, 
International Reflux Study in Children (European Branch).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University College London Hospitals, London, United 
Kingdom.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2001 Nov;139(5):620-1.
    J Urol. 2003 Jul;170(1):323-24.

OBJECTIVE: To study the progress of vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) grade III or IV 
in children followed up prospectively over 10 years.
STUDY DESIGN: One hundred forty-nine children (33 boys and 116 girls) with VUR 
were recruited for the International Reflux Study in Children and were treated 
with a medical regimen and monitored by means of serial cystograms. VUR 
disappearance was based on negative findings on 2 consecutive cystograms.
RESULTS: At 5 years, VUR with dilatation was seen in 72 (48%) children and VUR 
without dilatation, in 55 (37%); 22 (15%) children had no reflux. At 10 years, 
VUR with dilatation was seen in 34 (23%) children and VUR without dilatation, in 
37 (25%); 78 (52%) children had no reflux. Grade IV VUR persisted in 8 children. 
Absence of VUR was significantly associated with grade III versus grade IV VUR 
(P = .007), unilateral versus bilateral reflux (P = .0002), and age > or = 5 
years at entry versus age < 5 years (P = .001). Neither sex nor renal scarring 
at entry individually affected resolution of VUR. Among 43 (29%) children with 
intermittent VUR, only 6 had reflux with dilatation at 10 years.
CONCLUSION: Continuing reduction in the severity of VUR in children receiving 
careful medical treatment was observed over 10 years. On the basis of negative 
findings on 2 consecutive cystograms, VUR was absent in half of the children.

DOI: 10.1067/mpd.2001.117583
PMID: 11713442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Afr J Med Med Sci. 2000 Sep-Dec;29(3-4):275-9.

Vaginal bleeding patterns in Nigerian users of nomegestrol acetate subdermal 
contraceptive implant.

Arowojolu AO(1), Adekunle OA, Ogunnowo TO, Otolorin EO, Ladipo OA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University College Hospital, 
Ibadan, Nigeria.

A 12 months longitudinal study was carried out in 214 consecutive Nigerian women 
using Nomegestrol acetate subdermal contraceptive implant (Uniplant) for the 
first time to establish the rates of different vaginal bleeding patterns 
according to WHO bleeding/spotting classification, and to assess their 
relationship with Uniplant discontinuation. The results showed an initial rise 
in the number of women experiencing altered vaginal bleeding which continued to 
fall towards the 12th month of use (57.01% vs 26.17%). Similarly, a significant 
increase in mean menstrual cycle length occurred in the first trimester of use 
and this disappeared by the third trimester. The mean numbers of 
bleeding/spotting days and bleeding/spotting free intervals increased 
significantly from first trimester to the fourth trimester. No change was noted 
in the mean number of bleeding/spotting episodes through, out the follow up 
period. The total discontinuation rate was 15.42%. Discontinuation on account of 
altered vaginal bleeding pattern was 3.27%. One accidental pregnancy occurred 
during follow up (Pearl index = 0.52). No significant change in haemoglobin 
levels was noted in the women. It was concluded that changes in menstrual 
patterns in Uniplant users occur mostly in the first six months of use and are 
unlikely to have any deleterious effects on the general health of the users.

PMID: 11714005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2001 Oct 15;113(19):717-26.

[Craving for alcohol and prevention of relapse].

[Article in German]

Hertling I(1), Ramskogler K, Riegler A, Walter H, Mader R, Lesch OM.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie, Wien, Osterreich. 
Otto.M.Lesch@akh-wien.ac.at

The long term course of alcohol dependence often includes one or several 
relapses, which can be divided into low (< 5 standard drinks = lapse, slip) and 
high intake of alcohol with loss of control (relapse). The biological etiology 
of relapse is derived from different phenomena such as alcohol craving, 
psychosocial reasons, development of withdrawal symptoms, different primary 
psychiatric diseases and "addiction memory". Moreover, the metabolism of alcohol 
itself substantially contributes to alcohol dependence. For about 100 years 
different definitions for subgroups of alcohol dependence have been described, 
of which the Lesch typology is internationally acknowledged, especially for 
medical treatment. This typology differentiates between four types of alcohol 
dependent patients in which prevention and treatment of relapse should be 
specific to the primary psychiatric disease of the patient and to alcohol 
related disabilities. The aim is a long term improvement of sobriety rates of 
alcohol dependent patients as well as quality of life and life expectancy.

PMID: 11715749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2001 Oct 20;121(25):2979-81.

[Does everybody has a right to a certain number of quality life years?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Gjesdal S(1).

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for sosialmedisin Institutt for samfunnsmedisinske fag, Universitetet 
i Bergen Ulriksdal 8c 5009 Bergen. sturla.gjesdal@isf.uib.no

PMID: 11715784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Feline Med Surg. 2000 Sep;2(3):121-2. doi: 10.1053/jfms.2000.0095.

A look into the future.

Romagnoli S.

DOI: 10.1053/jfms.2000.0095
PMID: 11716606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Prev Med. 2001 Dec;33(6):558-70. doi: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0922.

The cost-effectiveness of intensive national school-based anti-tobacco 
education: results from the tobacco policy model.

Tengs TO(1), Osgood ND, Chen LL.

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, University of California, Irvine, 
California 92697-7075, USA. tengs@uci.edu

OBJECTIVES: School-based anti-tobacco education using the "social influences" 
model is known to reduce smoking among youth by 5-56%. Program effectiveness, 
however, dissipates in 1-4 years. Consequently, opinion leaders have questioned 
whether a more intensive national educational effort would be economically 
efficient. To address this question, we evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
enhanced nationwide school-based anti-tobacco education relative to the status 
quo.
METHODS: To estimate cost-effectiveness, we created the Tobacco Policy Model, a 
system dynamics computer simulation model. The model relies on secondary data 
and is designed to calculate the expected costs and public health gains of any 
tobacco policy or intervention over any time frame.
RESULTS: Over 50 years, cost-effectiveness is estimated to lie between $4,900 
and $340,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), depending on the degree and 
longevity of program effectiveness. Assuming a 30% effectiveness that dissipates 
in 4 years, cost-effectiveness is $20,000/QALY. Sensitivity analysis reveals 
that cost-effectiveness varies with cost, survival, and quality-of-life 
estimates but cost-effectiveness ratios generally remain favorable.
CONCLUSIONS: Although not cost saving, a much more intensive school-based 
anti-tobacco educational effort would be an economically efficient investment 
for the nation.

Copyright 2001 American Health Foundation and Elsevier Science.

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0922
PMID: 11716651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 2001 Oct;78(4):367-72. doi: 
10.1016/s0960-0760(01)00108-x.

7-Hydroxydehydroepiandrosterone epimers in the life span.

Hampl R(1), Hill M, Stárka L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Narodni 8, 116 94 1, Praha, Czech Republic. 
rhampl@endo.cz

Erratum in
    J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol 2002 Feb;80(2):257.

Evidence has been accumulated that 7-hydroxyepimers of dehydroepiandrosterone 
(7-OH-DHEA), may act as locally active immunomodulatory and immunoprotective 
agents, counteracting exaggerated actions of glucocorticoids. Since Skinner et 
al. (1977) developed the first unspecific RIA, it has been known that 
7alpha-OH-DHEA is present in near nanomolar concentration in human blood. No 
data have been available, however, on its changes during the human life. Using 
recently developed specific radioimmunoassays for determination of both 
7-OH-DHEA epimers, 7alpha- and 7beta-OH-DHEA were measured in sera from 252 
males and 172 females, representing age groups from 10 to 91 years (males) and 
from 10 to 72 years (females). The dependence of 7-OH-DHEA levels on age was 
evaluated by using polynomial fitting of the 4th or 5th degree. In contrast to 
men, where a distinct decline with age occurred, two local maxima have been 
recorded round the age 22 and 53, respectively, in females. The curves of age 
dependence of 7-OH-DHEA levels in both sexes resembled those of previously 
determined unconjugated DHEA, but in the latter case the second maximum in women 
was found about 10 years earlier than 7-OH-DHEA, in a premenopausal period. The 
levels of both 7-OH-DHEA epimers correlated excellently with each other.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-0760(01)00108-x
PMID: 11717007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Bacteriol. 2001 Dec;183(24):7260-72. doi:
10.1128/JB.183.24.7260-7272.2001.

Analysis of transcription of the Staphylococcus aureus aerobic class Ib and 
anaerobic class III ribonucleotide reductase genes in response to oxygen.

Masalha M(1), Borovok I, Schreiber R, Aharonowitz Y, Cohen G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, George S. Wise 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.

Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive facultative aerobe that can grow in the 
absence of oxygen by fermentation or by using an alternative electron acceptor. 
To investigate the mechanism by which S. aureus is able to adapt to changes in 
oxygen concentration, we analyzed the transcriptional regulation of genes that 
encode the aerobic class Ib and anaerobic class III ribonucleotide reductase 
(RNR) systems that are responsible for the synthesis of deoxyribonucleotides 
needed for DNA synthesis. The S. aureus class Ib RNR nrdIEF and class III RNR 
nrdDG genes and their regulatory regions were cloned and sequenced. Inactivation 
of the nrdDG genes showed that the class III RNR is essential for anaerobic 
growth. Inhibition of aerobic growth by hydroxyurea showed that the class Ib RNR 
is an oxygen-dependent enzyme. Northern blot analysis and primer extension 
analysis demonstrated that transcription of class III nrdDG genes is regulated 
by oxygen concentration and was at least 10-fold higher under anaerobic than 
under aerobic conditions. In contrast, no significant effect of oxygen 
concentration was found on the transcription of class Ib nrdIEF genes. 
Disruption or deletion of S. aureus nrdDG genes caused up to a fivefold increase 
in nrdDG and nrdIEF transcription under anaerobic conditions but not under 
aerobic conditions. Similarly, hydroxyurea, an inhibitor of the class I RNRs, 
resulted in increased transcription of class Ib and class III RNR genes under 
aerobic conditions. These findings establish that transcription of class Ib and 
class III RNR genes is upregulated under conditions that cause the depletion of 
deoxyribonucleotide. Promoter analysis of class Ib and class III RNR operons 
identified several inverted-repeat elements that may account for the 
transcriptional response of the nrdIEF and nrdDG genes to oxygen.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.183.24.7260-7272.2001
PMCID: PMC95576
PMID: 11717286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am Heart J. 2001 Dec;142(6):945-51. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2001.119609.

Multifactorial cardiovascular disease prevention in patients aged 75 years and 
older: A randomized controlled trial: Drugs and Evidence Based Medicine in the 
Elderly (DEBATE) Study.

Strandberg TE(1), Pitkala K, Berglind S, Nieminen MS, Tilvis RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Geriatric Clinic, and the Division of Cardiology, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland. timo.strandberg@hus.fi

BACKGROUND: The number of patients aged 75+ years with cardiovascular diseases 
(CVD) is increasing, but few studies of secondary prevention in this age group 
exist. The aim of the Drug and Evidence Based Medicine in the Elderly (DEBATE) 
study is to test the applicability and effectiveness of established CVD 
treatments in elderly patients.
METHODS: From 1998 to 2000, population-based postal surveys were performed in 
Helsinki, Finland, including the age groups 75, 80, 85, 90, and 95 years (n = 
4821). Of the 812 individuals reporting any atherosclerotic disease, 400 
patients (66% of those eligible) were included in a randomized trial. In the 
intervention group, CVD treatments will be individualized according to current 
guidelines. A control group will receive the usual care. The trial period will 
last 2 years with a 3-year extension. The primary end point will be a composite 
of major CVD. In addition, a number of secondary end points will be recorded, 
including permanent institutionalization, decline in cognitive and physical 
function, and quality of life.
RESULTS: During 2000, 400 home-dwelling patients were randomized to the 
intervention (n = 199) and control (n = 201) groups. The mean age is 80.2 years 
and 65.3% are women. Of the participants, 82% have coronary heart disease (41% 
with history of myocardial infarction), 37% history of stroke, 19% 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and 45% hypertension, and 6% are 
current smokers. Before randomization, 67% used aspirin, 40% b-blockers, 14% 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, 36% nitrates, and 20% lipid-lowering 
drugs. The groups were well balanced at baseline.
CONCLUSION: We have successfully randomized elderly patients with a high degree 
of comorbidity into a multifactorial CVD prevention trial.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2001.119609
PMID: 11717595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2001 Aug;22(4):265-8.

[Mortality study of major non-communicable diseases in Shanghai, from 1951 to 
1998].

[Article in Chinese]

Lin S(1), Song G, Zhou F.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai 
200336, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the transition of major non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in 
Shanghai.
METHODS: Demographic and mortality data since early 1950s in Shanghai was used. 
Linear regression model was employed to evaluate the mortality trends of 
diseases.
RESULTS: During the past five decades, age-adjusted mortality had been gradually 
decreasing, with leading cause of deaths shifting from infectious diseases to 
NCDs. In 1998, the average life expectancy reached 77.03, and the three leading 
causes of deaths, i.e. tumor, cardio-vascular diseases and respiratory diseases, 
accounted for 75% of all deaths. The crude mortality of major NCDs increased 
consistently. However, the age-adjusted mortality trends of major NCDs decreased 
during the past two decades after a 30-year's increase. Turnover took place in 
the late 1970s for tumors, for coronary heart in late 1980s diseases and in the 
early 1990s for strokes. For malignant tumors, the age-adjusted mortality of 
breast cancer, cancer of colon and rectum did not significantly decrease in the 
past two decades.
CONCLUSION: The increase of crude mortality of major NCDs was mainly due to the 
trend of aging in Shanghai. It is suggested that the risk factors of major NCDs 
had decreased to some extent but the behavior and dietary related risk factors 
remained serious.

PMID: 11718063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2001 Oct;34(5):348-55. doi: 10.1007/s003910170036.

[Need for help and nursing care in the elderly of the new German territories: 
results of a Leipzig long-term study of the elderly population (LEILA75+)].

[Article in German]

Wilms HU(1), Riedel-Heller SG, Busse A, Angermeyer MC.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie Universität Leipzig Johannisallee 20 
04317 Leipzig, Germany.

In a representative sample of the Leipzig population age 75 and older 61.8% of 
the participants showed relevant deficits in their capacity of independent 
living as assessed by a combined ADL/IADL scale. According to a staging model of 
care as promoted by Schneekloth and coworkers, 17% of the sample was in need of 
care. Especially, mobility-related instrumental activities of daily living 
(IADL) such as shopping, cleaning and visiting are affected, but also basic 
activities (ADL) such as climbing stairs, walking or taking a shower/bath. Each 
of these activities created problems for more than 45% of the participants. 
Between 18 and 33% of the sample even regarded it as impossible to carry out 
these activities. Expectedly, the percentages of assistance needed with 
ADLs/IADLs appeared to be strongly age-related with exponential increases beyond 
the age of 85. Beyond effects of sampling and life expectancy, significantly 
more women suffered from decreases in their capacity of independent living. 
Community-dwelling elderly on average had a 10% higher rate of problems with 
ADLs/IADLs as compared to German reference data from the studies on "Chances and 
Limits of Independent Living in Old Age"; the rate of institutionalized 
participants, who regarded it impossible to carry out these activities, was even 
higher by about 30%. As discussed by Schneekloth et al., data from the LEILA 
study support the hypothesized pattern that ecological disadvantages under both 
community-dwelling as well as insitutionalized living conditions lead to higher 
percentages of elderly in the former East German states who are in need of care. 
As a consequence and although more disabled, elderly seem to stay longer under 
community-dwelling living conditions and move even more disabled into an 
institutionalized form of living.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910170036
PMID: 11718097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Health Care Manag Sci. 2001 Dec;4(4):257-67. doi: 10.1023/a:1011886010184.

Analysis of colorectal cancer screening regimens.

Clemen RT(1), Lacke CJ.

Author information:
(1)Fuqua School of Business, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0120, USA. 
clemen@mail.duke.edu

We analyze several colorectal cancer screening methods. We begin with an 
existing deterministic model of the colorectal cancer growth-and-development 
model. Using judgments from two knowledgeable experts on colorectal cancer, we 
incorporate probability distributions for important parameters in the model. The 
analysis proceeds in three phases: First is a straightforward Monte Carlo 
simulation that includes uncertainty about structural parameters, the results of 
which identify five dominant screening strategies in terms of the expected 
number of cancers prevented and expected cost per life-year saved. The next part 
of the analysis develops a two-attribute utility function to rank order the 
screening regimens. The results show the same top five, with the top-ranked 
strategy being colonoscopy every three years. Sensitivity analysis demonstrates 
the robustness of the results.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1011886010184
PMID: 11718458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):65-73; discussion 75-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00335-9.

Keynote: mechanisms of senescence--complificationists versus simplificationists.

Martin GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Box 357470, Room K543, 
Health Sciences Building, 1959 N.E. Pacific Street, Seattle, WA 98195-7470, USA. 
gmartin@u.washington.edu

It strikes me that among our relatively small community of gerontologists 
concerned with genetic approaches to our science, there is somewhat of a 
dichotomization. On the one hand, there are those of us, like myself, who tend 
to be dour 'complificationists'. Journalists talk to us, but are usually 
disappointed by the encounter. We are perhaps too impressed with the enormous 
diversity of genetic modulations of human senescence and with our 
interpretations of the implications of the evolutionary biological theory of 
senescence, namely that senescent phenotypes per se are non-adaptive, 
non-determinative, subject to stochastic events as well as highly polygenic 
modulations, with resulting wide variability in mechanisms of senescence among 
and within species. Quite happily, however, there are wonderful optimists among 
us. They seem to be convinced that there are likely to be a rather small number 
of major gene effects for a few major mechanisms. They include most 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Caenorhabditis elegans geneticists, some Drosophila 
melanogaster geneticists, and some mouse geneticists. They also include caloric 
restriction enthusiasts. Let's call these colleagues 'simplificationists'. 
Journalists and friends generally find them to be delightful companions. Where 
does the truth lie? Perhaps the truth lies somewhere between these two extremes 
and is largely dependent upon the organisms and the range of environments being 
investigated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00335-9
PMID: 11718800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):81-93. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00345-1.

Lifespan, QTLs, age-specificity, and pleiotropy in Drosophila.

Curtsinger JW(1), Khazaeli AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, 1987 
Upper Buford Circle, St. Paul, MN 55108, USA. jwcurt@tc.umn.edu

We have constructed a set of 120 recombinant inbred lines for use in studies of 
the genetics of lifespan in Drosophila. The lines are derived from Luckinbill 
and Clare's (Heredity 55 (1985) 9) artificial selection experiment for increased 
lifespan. Inbred lines retain the relative lifespan characteristics of the 
experimental and control stocks from which they are derived. Mapping experiments 
suggest that a small number of QTLs accounts for much of the selection response. 
The age-specificity of genetic effects is best visualized in three-dimensional 
QTL maps of age-specific mortality. QTLs are shared by males and females, and 
have effects on age-specific mortality that are positively correlated across 
ages, with different times of onset. There is evidence for positively correlated 
pleiotropic effects of lifespan QTLs on mid-life fertility and resistance to an 
oxidizing chemical, and a striking lack of evidence for negative pleiotropy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00345-1
PMID: 11718803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):121-30. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00339-6.

The Snell dwarf mutation Pit1(dw) can increase life span in mice.

Flurkey K(1), Papaconstantinou J, Harrison DE.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA.

Over the past 30 years, the Snell dwarf mutation (Pit1(dw)) has been reported to 
shorten, to have no effect on, or to increase life span in various colonies; 
however, few details of these disparate results have been published. We now 
report that mean, median, and maximum life spans are increased by 40-50% for 
Snell dwarf (Pit1(dw)/Pit1(dw)) DW/J females, and 25-50% for dwarf DWC3F1 males 
and females with the compound heterozygous Pit1(dw)/Pit1(dw-J) genotype. We 
previously observed aspects of delayed senescence in Snell dwarf 
(Pit1(dw)/Pit1(dw)) DW/J males; however, their median life span was shortened by 
about 25% (Genetic Effects on Aging II, 1990, The Telford Press, Caldwell, NJ, 
pp. 435-456). This short life span was not an intrinsic effect of the mutation, 
but a consequence of housing male dwarfs with normal-sized male littermates; our 
present results demonstrate that Snell dwarf males attain very long life spans 
when housed with normal-sized females. We conclude that the dwarf mutation 
interacts with environmental factors to alter life spans and, probably, rates of 
ageing, over an extremely broad range. We propose that this variation in the 
effect of the Snell dwarf mutation results from a tradeoff between physical 
vigor and life span that is mediated by pituitary hormones, and that growth 
hormone, thyroid hormone, and possibly prolactin regulate mechanisms that 
schedule mortality in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00339-6
PMID: 11718806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):131-44. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00340-2.

Optimizing detection of QTLs retarding aging: choice of statistical model and 
animal requirements.

Klebanov S(1), Harrison DE.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, 600 Main St., Bar Harbor, ME 04609-0800, USA.

Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis makes no assumptions about the identity 
of genes involved in regulating aging. Moreover, it may be used as the first 
step in identifying such genes and, thus QTL analysis may be instrumental in 
formulating new hypotheses about aging. Genetic experiments, however, require 
hundreds to thousands of animals and are very expensive in mammals. Statistical 
power to detect longevity genes could be improved by excluding accidental, 
unrelated to aging mortality. While many early deaths are probably accidental, 
excluding early mortality altogether eliminates the age-related component, too. 
We used computer simulations to assess the effect of excluding early 
age-related, mortality on the statistical power of several common tests, such as 
t-test, Mann-Whitney and chi(2). Surprisingly, even the age-related, Gompertz 
component of early mortality reduces the statistical power of the t- and 
Mann-Whitney tests. For example, in a backcross design, to detect a gene slowing 
down the rate of aging and increasing mouse life span by 10% (P=0.0001; 
power=0.8), a regular t-test will require 640 mice, all kept for the entire life 
span and genotyped. If life spans of only 25% of the longest-lived animals from 
each of the two groups, carrying a putative longevity allele and not carrying 
it, are compared, population size can be reduced by two-fold, to about 300, and 
genotyping by seven-fold, to 90. Confirming simulation results, the significance 
of the effect of caloric restriction on life span increased from P=3.4x10(-5) to 
1.1x10(-7), when life spans of only 40% of the longest-lived mice from each of 
the two groups, ad libitum fed and calorie restricted, were compared. Finally, 
finding the optimal combination of statistical test, the number of phenotyped 
and the number of genotyped animals, which would minimize experimental costs was 
addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00340-2
PMID: 11718807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):215-29. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00341-4.

Caloric restriction and lifespan: a role for protein turnover?

Tavernarakis N(1), Driscoll M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers, The State 
University of New Jersey, New-Bruns Wick, NJ, USA. tavernarakis@imbb.forth.gr

Oxidative damage to cellular macromolecules has been postulated to be a major 
contributor to the ageing of diverse organisms. Oxidative damage can be limited 
by maintaining high anti-oxidant defenses and by clearing/repairing damage 
efficiently. Protein turnover is one of the main routes by which functional 
proteins are maintained and damaged proteins are removed. Protein turnover rates 
decline with age, which might contribute to the accumulation of damaged proteins 
in ageing cells. Interestingly, protein turnover rates are maintained at high 
levels in caloric restricted animals. Whether changes in protein turnover are a 
cause or a consequence of ageing is not clear, and this question has not been a 
focal point of modern ageing research. Here we survey work on protein turnover 
and ageing and suggest that powerful genetic models such as the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans are well suited for a thorough investigation of this 
long-standing question.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00341-4
PMID: 11718814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Jan;123(2-3):231-42. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00348-7.

What does it take to live to 100?

Perls T(1), Levenson R, Regan M, Puca A.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Division, Harvard Division on Aging, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA. thomas_perls@hms.harvard.edu

Centenarians disprove the ageist myth "the older you get, the sicker you get"; 
they live 90-95% of their very long lives in excellent health, only to 
experience illnesses in the very last few years of their lives. Thus, it appears 
that in order to live to 100, one must age relatively slowly and markedly delay 
and/or escape age-associated diseases. How they achieve such a survival 
advantage is still a mystery though it is becoming increasingly clear that a 
substantial genetic advantage plays a role in their ability to live 20-25 years 
beyond average life expectancy. Current genetic studies of centenarian sibships 
may yield the identity of some of these genes in the near future. Identifying 
such genes may yield new information about how people age differently and what 
modulates differences in susceptibilities to various diseases associated with 
aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00348-7
PMID: 11718815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Radiology. 2001 Dec;221(3):592-6; discussion 597. doi: 
10.1148/radiol.2213001644.

CT screening for lung cancer: coping with nihilistic recommendations.

Miettinen OS(1), Henschke CI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New 
York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Radiology. 2002 Sep;224(3):927.
    Radiology. 2002 Sep;224(3):928; author reply 928-9.
    Radiology. 2002 Dec;225(3):920.

The practicing radiologist today is well persuaded that earlier diagnosis of 
lung cancer can be achieved with traditional-type radiography and especially 
with modern computed tomography. The practitioner also is confident that 
intervention in the context of earlier diagnosis is more effective in preventing 
death due to this otherwise fatal disease. The practitioner is thus inclined to 
consider such screening in a high-risk person with suitably long life 
expectancy, especially when asked to provide it. On the other hand, the 
practitioner is aware of official recommendations against lung cancer screening, 
said to be based on demonstrated lack of effectiveness of traditional 
radiographic screening. Some researchers have expressed concerns about 
screening-associated "overdiagnosis." Given this dilemma, the critically 
thinking practitioner is concerned to understand the foundation of the official 
nihilism in evidence and reasoning, as she or he suspects that something may be 
seriously wrong in this. This article is an attempt to help such a practitioner 
in this effort--an effort that in the end is rewarded by the comforting 
realization that the nihilistic recommendations and hesitation-provoking 
cautions are founded on pseudoevidence and specious reasoning.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2213001644
PMID: 11719649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Hum Fertil (Camb). 2001;4(4):239-45. doi: 10.1080/1464727012000199591.

Hazards of assisted conception in women with severe medical disease.

Neill AM(1), Nelson-Piercy C.

Author information:
(1)West Suffolk Hospital, Bury St Edmund's, Suffolk IP33 2QZ, UK.

The issues relating to assisted reproduction in women with severe medical 
disease can be divided into the likely effect of pregnancy upon the medical 
condition, and how the medical condition may adversely affect pregnancy outcome. 
In addition, consideration of the hazards relating to the process of assisted 
conception, in particular the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome and 
multiple pregnancy, must be remembered. In some women, successful assisted 
reproduction may result in a life-threatening pregnancy. Clinicians advising 
women about assisted conception should be aware of the medical conditions that 
are absolute contra-indications to pregnancy. Some women with severe medical 
disease may have a significantly reduced life expectancy, in which case ethical 
issues regarding the future welfare of the child must be considered. Examples 
include sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis and HIV. One of the biggest 
advantages of assisted reproduction for women with severe medical disorders is 
that the pregnancy is planned. Thus, there is an opportunity for the patient to 
be informed fully about any risks, both to herself and her fetus. This article 
reviews the general management of women with severe medical disorders who seek 
assisted reproduction and gives specific guidelines for the more common 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/1464727012000199591
PMID: 11719719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Br Med Bull. 2001;57:3-15. doi: 10.1093/bmb/57.1.3.

Classification, disability and the public health agenda.

Lewis G(1), Araya R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Wales College of 
Medicine, Cardiff, UK.

Depression is a common and disabling illness. For some time the disability has 
been relatively neglected by those interested in public health. Public health 
priorities have largely been determined by statistics on mortality. The World 
Health Organization has argued for some time that public health should be 
concerned with 'adding life to years' as well as 'adding years to life'. This 
article will argue that depression should be a key priority for public health 
research.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/57.1.3
PMID: 11719921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Br J Cancer. 2001 Nov 2;85(9):1280-8. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2125.

First do no harm: extending the debate on the provision of preventive tamoxifen.

Will BP(1), Nobrega KM, Berthelot JM, Flanagan W, Wolfson MC, Logan DM, Evans 
WK.

Author information:
(1)The Health Analysis and Modeling Group, Statistics Canada, 24-Q, R.H. Coats 
Building, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6, Canada.

The Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT-P-1) demonstrated that tamoxifen could 
reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer in high-risk women by 49%, but that it 
could also increase the risk of endometrial cancer, vascular events and 
cataracts. This paper provides an estimate of the net health impacts of 
tamoxifen administration on high-risk Canadian women with no prior history of 
breast cancer. The results of the BCPT-P-1 were incorporated into the breast 
cancer and other modules of Statistics Canada's microsimulation POpulation 
HEalth Model (POHEM). While the main intervention scenario conformed as closely 
as possible to the eligibility criteria for tamoxifen in the BCPT-P-1 protocol, 
3 additional scenarios were simulated. Predicted absolute risks of breast cancer 
at 5 years of 1.66%, 3.32% and 4.15% were calculated for women 35 to 70 years of 
age. When the BCPT-P-1 results were incorporated into the simulation model, the 
analysis suggests no increase in life expectancy in this risk group. Tamoxifen 
appeared to be beneficial for women with a 5-year predicted risk of 3.32% or 
greater. The results of these simulations are particularly sensitive to the 
reduction in mortality observed in the BCPT-P-1, as well as being sensitive to 
other characteristics of the simulation model. Overall, the analysis raises 
questions about the use of tamoxifen in otherwise healthy women at high risk of 
breast cancer.

Copyright 2001 Cancer Research Campaign.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2125
PMCID: PMC2375241
PMID: 11720461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Br J Cancer. 2001 Nov 2;85(9):1289-94. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2047.

Routine breast screening for women aged 65-69: results from evaluation of the 
demonstration sites.

Moss SM(1), Brown J, Garvican L, Coleman DA, Johns LE, Blanks RG, Rubin G, 
Oswald J, Page A, Evans A, Gamble P, Wilson R, Lee L, Liston J, Sturdy L, Sutton 
G, Wardman G, Patnick J, Winder R.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Screening Evaluation Unit, Section of Epidemiology, The Institute of 
Cancer Research, Block D, Cotswold Road, Sutton, Surrey, SM2 5NG.

Routine programme data and specially designed surveys from 3 demonstration sites 
were analysed to determine the implications of extending the NHS Breast 
Screening Programme (NHSBSP), to include routine invitations for women up to 69 
years. All women aged 65-69 and registered with GPs in these areas received 
routine invitations for breast screening along with those aged 50-64. Overall 
uptake was 71% in women aged 65-69 compared with 78% in younger women, but was > 
or = 90% in both groups who had previously attended within 5 years. Recall rates 
were lower for older women, but with a higher positive predictive value for 
cancer. The percentages of invasive cancer in different prognostic categories 
were similar in the 2 age groups. Older women took no longer to screen than 
younger women. The costs per woman invited or per woman screened were also 
similar to those for women aged 50-64, whilst the cost per cancer detected was 
some 34% lower in older women. Breast screening is as cost effective for women 
aged 65-69 as for those aged 50-64, with a higher cancer detection rate 
balancing shorter life expectancy. The proposed extension to the national 
programme will have considerable workforce implications for the NHSBSP and 
require additional resources.

Copyright 2001 Cancer Research Campaign

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2047
PMCID: PMC2375256
PMID: 11720462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Gerontology. 2001 Nov-Dec;47(6):306-10. doi: 10.1159/000052819.

Coeliac Disease in the Elderly. A multicentre Italian study.

Gasbarrini G(1), Ciccocioppo R, De Vitis I, Corazza GR; Club del Tenue Study 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic University of Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: In the last few decades, we have observed either an increased 
incidence of coeliac disease (CD) or an increased frequency of its diagnosis. 
However, only scant information is available about the prevalence and clinical 
features of CD in the elderly.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To determine the proportion of elderly patients (age > or =65 
years) in a large group of consecutive newly-diagnosed cases of adult CD and to 
analyze the clinical pattern and causes of death.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 1,353 adult patients with active CD were diagnosed by 10 
Italian Gastroenterology Units over a period of 10 years. For each patient, a 
questionnaire comprising demographic data, signs and symptoms with their 
duration at the moment of the diagnosis, and associated diseases or 
complications and the causes of death, was drawn up.
RESULTS: A total of 60 patients (4.4%) were over 65 years at diagnosis with a 
M/F ratio of 1/2.75 which was similar to 1/2.42 in the under-65-year age group. 
The mean time of delayed diagnosis was 17 +/- 19 years in the elderly and 14 +/- 
13.8 years in the adults. Classical features of malabsorption were the main 
presenting symptoms and gastrointestinal disorders were very often also present 
in the geriatric patients. Twelve aged subjects (20%) died during the follow-up 
period (mean 4.6 years) often due to cachexia (5%) and heart failure (5%), even 
though complications such as intestinal lymphoma were present in 8.3% of cases 
and caused death in 3.3% of the elderly.
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of classical manifestations of CD in the elderly, the 
diagnosis was made in only 4.4% of subjects aged over 65 years and the delay was 
17 years. These observations, together with the shortening of life expectancy of 
elderly CD patients, emphasize the importance for clinicians to consider CD as a 
possible diagnosis and the need for further investigations to be carried out in 
the elderly general population.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000052819
PMID: 11721143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. MMW Fortschr Med. 2001 Oct 11;143(41):26-30.

[Proper diagnosis and treatment of carotid stenoses. Recommending surgery, when 
is it too risky?].

[Article in German]

Schmid-Elsaesser R(1), Medele R, Steiger HJ.

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Klinik, Klinikum Grosshadern, LMU München. 
Schmid-Elsaesser@nc.med.uni-muenchen.de

A number of multicentric randomized studies have been able to demonstrate a 
benefit from surgery in high-grade asymptomatic and symptomatic carotid artery 
stenosis. The benefits of carotid artery endarterectomy are greater in 
symptomatic than in asymptomatic patients. This means that, in the case of the 
latter, the benefits and risks of surgery must be considered with special care. 
The gold standard of the preoperative diagnostic work-up is selective 
angiography. Since this examination modality is associated with a complication 
rate of > 1% in this group of patients, there is an increasing tendency to 
content oneself with such noninvasive procedures as duplex sonography used in 
combination with cranial and cervical MRI. The life expectancy of patients 
