undergoing carotid artery end-arterectomy is determined mainly by their 
concomitant cardiac problems. Constant surveillance and optimal treatment of 
vascular risk factors is therefore essential in these patients.

PMID: 11721656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Blood. 2001 Nov 15;98(10):3174-5. doi: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3174.

Increased risk of leukemia relapse with high dose cyclosporine after allogeneic 
marrow transplantation for acute leukemia: 10 year follow-up of a randomized 
study.

Bicigalupo A, Lamparelli T, Gualandi F, Bregante S, Raiola A, di Grazia C, 
Dominietto A, Romagnani C, Occhini D, Frassoni F, van Lint MT.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v98.10.3174
PMID: 11721685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2001 Dec;67(12):5377-83. doi: 
10.1128/AEM.67.12.5377-5383.2001.

In planta regulation of extension of an endophytic fungus and maintenance of 
high metabolic rates in its mycelium in the absence of apical extension.

Tan YY(1), Spiering MJ, Scott V, Lane GA, Christensen MJ, Schmid J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular BioSciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New 
Zealand.

The fungus Neotyphodium lolii is an endophytic symbiont. It grows in the 
intercellular spaces of the perennial ryegrass Lolium perenne, producing 
secondary metabolites which enhance the fitness of the association over that of 
uninfected L. perenne. We report that the average number of hyphal strands in a 
given section of a leaf remains constant during the life of a leaf, indicating 
synchrony of leaf and hyphal extension, including cessation of hyphal extension 
when leaf extension ceases. We used a constitutively expressed reporter gene as 
an indicator of the mycelium's metabolic activity during and after hyphal 
extension. Reporter gene activity decreased when the mycelium stopped extending 
in liquid culture but not in planta. This indicates that in planta endophyte 
hyphae remain metabolically highly active when extension has ceased and 
throughout the life of the leaf they are colonizing. The behavior of the fungus 
in planta indicates the existence of signaling pathways which (i) synchronize 
the extension of leaf and hypha by regulating hyphal extension, (ii) suppress 
hyphal branching, and (iii) stop apical extension of fungal hyphae, without 
reducing the mycelium's metabolic activity. These signals may be crucial for the 
symbiosis, by allowing the endophyte to switch the focus of its metabolic 
activity from extension to the production of secondary metabolites.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.67.12.5377-5383.2001
PMCID: PMC93319
PMID: 11722882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2001 Sep;121(9):689-95.

[The benefits of aging. II. Aging and dying in our time: reasons for optimism?].

[Article in French]

Martin-Du Pan R.

The increase of life expectancy is due to the successful treatments of 
infectious diseases and to the prevention of cardio-vascular (C-V) diseases. 
People are afraid that an increase of life expectancy would go together with an 
extension of years of chronic illness and disability. However the 
compression-of-morbidity hypothesis predicts that persons with better health 
habits and with a low level of C-V risk factors survive longer without a 
parallel increase of the period of disability. Depression decreases life quality 
of elderly people and increases sucidial risk as well as C-V mortality. The 
prevalence of depression varies between 10 and 20% in different european cities. 
Emotional well-being and vitality characterized by optimism and sociability seem 
to protect old people from adverse health outcome. There is a marked increase in 
epithelial carcinoma in old people. Some cancers (breast, colon) have a reduced 
aggressiveness in elderly patients. A better access to palliative care and a 
better control of terminal pain and suffering should restrain patients to ask 
help for assisted suicide. People who had near death experience recall they felt 
light and peace. These coping mechanisms seem to ease the passage towards death. 
Elderly people should be surrounded by a social and affective network in order 
to help them to cope with illness, dependance and loneliness and to keep their 
humour and optimism.

PMID: 11723712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Demography. 2001 Nov;38(4):513-24. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0033.

Social inequalities in disability-free life expectancy in the French male 
population, 1980-1991.

Cambois E(1), Robine JM, Hayward MD.

Author information:
(1)Equipe Démographie et Santé, Centre Val d'Aurelle, Parc Euromédecine, 34298 
Montpellier 05, France. cambois@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

We calculate aggregate indicators of population health for occupational groups 
to gauge changes in health disparities during the 1980-1991 period. The study is 
based on the experiences of French adult men in three major occupational 
classes: managers, manual workers, and an intermediary occupational group. Life 
table models show that managers have longer life expectancy and disability-free 
life expectancy (DFLE) than manual workers, and a shorter life expectancy with 
disability. The concurrent increases in life expectancy and DFLE during the 
period maintained the occupational disparities in health; the years lived with 
disability, however, declined for all groups, as for the entire French 
population.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0033
PMID: 11723948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Demography. 2001 Nov;38(4):525-36. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0038.

Life expectancies in specific health states: results from a joint model of 
health status and mortality of older persons.

Portrait F(1), Lindeboom M, Deeg D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Free University, De Boelelaan 1105, 1081 HV 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Fportrait@econ.vu.nl

With the trend toward aging, increases in health care expenditures are expected. 
Insight into (future) needs for care services requires a taxonomy of older 
persons' health conditions: how health status develops as people age and how 
these health conditions determine residual life expectancy. In this paper we 
provide this information for the Netherlands. We apply a flexible nonparametric 
method--the Grade of Membership method--to a national database and summarize the 
multidimensional concept of health status into a limited set of interpretable 
indices. We then use these indices in our panel data model for health status and 
mortality. The model results are used to calculate age-health profiles and 
expected residual lifetimes in specific health states.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0038
PMID: 11723949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Demography. 2001 Nov;38(4):537-49. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0036.

Evaluating the performance of the Lee-Carter method for forecasting mortality.

Lee R(1), Miller T.

Author information:
(1)Demography and Economics, University of California, 2232 Piedmont Ave., 
Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. rlee@demog.berkeley.edu

Comment on
    Demography. 2000 Aug;37(3):285-98.

Lee and Carter (LC) published a new statistical method for forecasting mortality 
in 1992. This paper examines its actual and hypothetical forecast errors, and 
compares them with Social Security forecast errors. Hypothetical historical 
projections suggest that LC tended to underproject gains, but by less than did 
Social Security. True e0 was within the ex ante 95% probability interval 97% of 
the time overall, but intervals were too broad up to 40 years and too narrow 
after 50 years. Projections to 1998 made after 1945 always contain errors of 
less than two years. Hypothetical projections for France, Sweden, Japan, and 
Canada would have done well. Changing age patterns of mortality decline over the 
century pose problems for the method.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0036
PMID: 11723950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Demography. 2001 Nov;38(4):551-61. doi: 10.1353/dem.2001.0035.

Education and survival: birth cohort, period, and age effects.

Lauderdale DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Studies, University of Chicago, 5841 S. Maryland Ave., 
MC2007, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. lauderdale@health.bsd.uchicago.edu

Previous studies have found that educational differences in mortality are weaker 
among the elderly. In this study I examine whether either cohort or period 
effects may have influenced the interpretation of age effects. Six 10-year birth 
cohorts are followed over 30 years through decennial censuses. Differential 
survival is inferred from changes in the relative proportions of a cohort in 
each education category as the cohort ages. In cross-section, younger persons 
generally show stronger education effects on survival, although this pattern is 
clearer for women than for men. There is evidence of period effects. Within 
cohorts, relative survival tends to increase with age.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2001.0035
PMID: 11723951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Ther Apher. 2001 Aug;5(4):221-5. doi: 10.1046/j.1526-0968.2001.00328.x.

Apheresis technology for prevention and regression of atherosclerosis.

Yamamoto A(1), Harada-Shiba M, Kawaguchi A, Tsushima M.

Author information:
(1)National Cardiovascular Center Research Institute, Suita, Osaka, Japan. 
ymmta@juno.dti.ne.jp

Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a congenital disorder of cholesterol 
metabolism, which is due to a deficiency in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) 
receptors. The homozygous form of FH is especially liable to coronary artery 
disease (CAD) in youth because of the very high LDL-cholesterol levels. It is 
resistant to drug therapy, and LDL-apheresis is the only practical way of 
treatment for these patients. Some patients with heterozygous FH also have high 
LDL-cholesterol levels that cannot be brought down into the optimum range by any 
combination drug therapy. We have treated or are treating 10 homozygous and 28 
heterozygous FH patients in our hospital or in affiliated hospitals expert in 
blood purification. Among the 10 homozygous patients, 2 died of myocardial 
infarction. Only one young female patient is still free of symptoms, and the 
other patients have been suffering from regurgitation through the aortic valve 
although they have not experienced myocardial infarction. Rapid rebound of 
LDL-cholesterol after each apheresis treatment limits the period during which 
LDL-cholesterol is in the optimum range. The use of atorvastatin at a high dose 
(40 mg/day) was attempted to suppress this rebound. In contrast with good 
results in receptor-defective-type patients, receptor-negative-type patients did 
not show a response in LDL-cholesterol levels to the statin therapy although 
there was a slight increase in high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol with a 
decrease in very-low-density lipoprotein-triglyceride and -cholesterol. 
Follow-up study of the patients with heterozygous FH revealed that LDL-apheresis 
was effective in lengthening the life expectancy of the patients with 
pre-existing CAD, especially those who had received intervention coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG) or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). 
It was also shown that the use of probucol in combination with LDL-apheresis was 
effective in reducing coronary events as shown by the necessity of CABG or PTCA. 
Clinical data on the effect of LDL-apheresis, recently reported from some other 
institutions in Japan, will also be reviewed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1526-0968.2001.00328.x
PMID: 11724504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Isr J Psychiatry Relat Sci. 2001;38(3-4):185-201.

The traumatization of grief? A conceptual framework for understanding the 
trauma-bereavement interface.

Stroebe M(1), Schut H, Finkenauer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
M.Stroebe@fss.uu.nl

Scientific opinion differs on whether pathological (or complicated, traumatic) 
grief is an entity distinct from post-traumatic stress disorder. Some argue that 
it is different, and for the creation of a new category of pathological grief 
for the DSM system, while others consider bereavement and associated grief 
reactions to fall within the category of traumatic life events, for which the 
existing system would offer adequate classification. Although investigators have 
begun to explore similarities and differences in the trauma and bereavement 
domains, there is still confusion and lack of consensus about definitions and 
basic concepts. A conceptual framework, suggested here, may help bring clarity 
to the area. Our analysis shows that the lack of consensus about the nature of 
reactions and disorders of bereavement is due to concentration on different 
parts of the framework. Furthermore, the lack of differentiation between 
traumatic and non-traumatic bereavement has caused neglect of the unique 
features of non-traumatic grief reactions. These components need further 
exploration, especially since extension of DSM classification is currently under 
consideration.

PMID: 11725417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. EMBO J. 2001 Dec 3;20(23):6700-11. doi: 10.1093/emboj/20.23.6700.

A novel CCCH protein which modulates differentiation of Trypanosoma brucei to 
its procyclic form.

Hendriks EF(1), Robinson DR, Hinkins M, Matthews KR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, 2.205 Stopford Building, University of 
Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

Cell differentiation in Trypanosoma brucei involves highly regulated changes in 
morphology, proliferation and metabolism. However, the controls of these 
developmental processes are unknown. We have identified two novel proteins from 
the rare CCCH zinc finger family, each <140 amino acids in length and implicated 
in life cycle regulation. TbZFP1 is transiently enriched during differentiation 
from the bloodstream to procyclic form, whereas tbZFP2, when ablated in 
bloodstream forms by RNA interference, inhibits this developmental step. 
Moreover, expressing an ectopic copy of tbZFP2 results in a dramatic procyclic 
stage-specific remodelling of the trypanosome cytoskeleton similar to the 
morphogenic events of differentiation. This phenotype, we term 'nozzle', 
involves polar extension of microtubules at the posterior end of the cell and is 
dependent upon a motif hitherto restricted to E3 ubiquitin ligases. TbZFP1 and 
tbZFP2 represent the first molecules implicated in the control of trypanosome 
differentiation to the procyclic form.

DOI: 10.1093/emboj/20.23.6700
PMCID: PMC125759
PMID: 11726506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Benefits Q. 2001;17(4):84-6.

A sign of the times.

Barnett B, Bryant JS.

Pressure placed on employers to enhance the bottom line comes from a multitude 
of changes in the marketplace and has resulted in employers seeking to limit 
their liabilities and expenses for retiree medical care. To address retiree 
medical issues, employers have adapted a number of strategies that are presented 
in this article. These include eliminating or modifying benefits, using a 
defined contribution approach, capping subsidies and enrolling retirees in 
Medicare HMOs.

PMID: 11727478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Nov 10;145(45):2160-5.

[Meningiomas: prognostic relevance of histopathologic and genetic markers].

[Article in Dutch]

Kros JM(1), Wolbers JG.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Pathologie, Erasmus Universitair Medisch Centrum, Postbus 2040, 3000 CA 
Rotterdam. kros@path.fgg.eur.nl

The majority of meningiomas are histologically benign tumours. Location and 
invasion of tumour tissue in adjacent structures may hamper radical resections 
and give rise to recurrences. The rise in human life expectancy has prolonged 
the postoperative period and thus the risk of tumour recurrence has increased 
markedly. Infiltration in brain tissue and mitotic activity are important 
histologic features which negatively influence the disease-free duration of the 
postoperative period. Molecular studies of relevant genetic defects involved in 
meningioma are currently underway, but as yet these are of little clinical 
relevance.

PMID: 11727613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Clin Chim Acta. 2002 Jan;315(1-2):31-40. doi: 10.1016/s0009-8981(01)00718-5.

Economic evaluations of screening programs: a review of methods and results.

Butler JR(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, The Australian 
National University, Canberra ACT 0200, Australia. Jim.Butler@anu.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The economics of screening is part of the broader area of the 
economics of prevention, and is concerned with the allocation of resources to 
screening activities when confronted with the problem of scarcity.
ISSUES: One important aspect of the economics of screening is the economic 
evaluation of screening programs. Economic evaluation involves a systematic 
assessment of the costs and benefits of screening.
RESULTS: A review of methods and results of economic evaluations of screening 
produces no generalizable conclusion about the economic desirability or 
otherwise, of screening programs. Each particular screening program must be 
evaluated on its merits. There is no evidence of any systematic tendency for 
screening programs to be more or less cost-effective than other prevention or 
treatment programs. Across all programs, substantial disparities have been found 
in cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: The challenge in the future will be to secure the re-allocations of 
resources necessary to maximize health gains from limited health care resources, 
rather than to undertake the analyses on which such re-allocations would be 
based.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-8981(01)00718-5
PMID: 11728408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Schizophr Res. 2002 Jan 1;53(1-2):123-43. doi:
10.1016/s0920-9964(01)00173-6.

Trauma, PTSD, and the course of severe mental illness: an interactive model.

Mueser KT(1), Rosenberg SD, Goodman LA, Trumbetta SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanaver, NH, USA. 
kim.t.mueser@dartmouth.edu

Traumatic life events, as defined by DSM-IV, are common among persons with 
severe mental illnesses (SMI) such as schizophrenia. Limited evidence suggests 
concomitantly high rates of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in this 
population. However, conceptual models do not exist for understanding the 
interactions between trauma, PTSD, and SMI. We propose a model, which is an 
extension of the stress-vulnerability model, in which PTSD is hypothesized to 
mediate the negative effects of trauma on the course of SMI. Our model posits 
that PTSD influences psychiatric disorders both directly, through the effects of 
specific PTSD symptoms including avoidance, overarousal, and re-experiencing the 
trauma, and indirectly, through the effects of common correlates of PTSD such as 
retraumatization, substance abuse, and difficulties with interpersonal 
relationships. We discuss the evidence supporting this model, and consider 
several intervening variables that are hypothesized to moderate the proposed 
relationships between PTSD and SMI, including social support, coping and 
competence, and antisocial personality disorder. Theoretical and clinical 
implications of the model are considered, as well as several methodological and 
nosological issues. We conclude with a brief discussion of directions for future 
research aimed at evaluating components of the model.

DOI: 10.1016/s0920-9964(01)00173-6
PMID: 11728845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Gastroenterology. 2001 Dec;121(6):1516-8. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5085(01)83854-3.

Does surveillance endoscopy improve life expectancy in those with Barrett's 
esophagus?

Shaheen NJ.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(01)83854-3
PMID: 11729134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. WHO Reg Publ Eur Ser. 2001;(92):149-70.

Economic evaluation of health promotion.

Godfrey C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Clinical Evaluation, University of York, 
United Kingdom.

PMID: 11729770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Lancet. 2001 Jun 16;357(9272):1973-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)05036-4.

Premature mortality and hypopituitarism.

Kohno H, Kuromaru R, Ueyama N, Miyako K.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2001 Feb 10;357(9254):425-31.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)05036-4
PMID: 11729839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2001 Nov;43(11):792.

'Life expectancy among people with cerebral palsy in Western Australia'.

Blair E.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2001 Aug;43(8):508-15.

PMID: 11730155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2001 Oct;56 Spec No 2:89-94. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/56.suppl_2.89.

Nutrition, physical activity, and quality of life in older adults: summary.

Drewnowski A(1), Evans WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Medicine and the Nutritional Sciences Program, 
University of Washington School of Public Health and Community Medicine, 
Seattle, USA. adamdrew@u.washington.edu

If health-related quality of life--and not longevity--is the key goal for health 
promotion, then it is captured only partly by the existing mortality and 
morbidity indexes. Researchers now urge that government agencies and health care 
providers begin collecting quality-of-life data on the populations they serve. 
Adding life to years, not years to life, is the current agenda for productive 
and successful aging. Policies and programs on aging are increasingly focused on 
identifying ways to improve quality of life and health status rather than just 
extending life span. In the Healthy People 2000 report, the chief goal of health 
promotion was to increase the span of healthy life. The focus was on mortality 
and morbidity data and symptom checklists as the principal measures of ill 
health. In contrast, the new emphasis in the Healthy People 2010 report is on 
quality of life and overall well-being. Helping people to increase life 
expectancy and improve their quality of life is the primary goal of the Healthy 
People 2010 report. The authors of this special issue of the Journals of 
Gerontology: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences are united in the belief 
that optimal nutrition and physical activity make a significant contribution to 
the overall quality of life at any age and especially for older adults. The key 
research challenge lies in deciding which aspects of improved fitness, 
nutrition, and diet contribute the most to quality-of-life measures. We have 
attempted to provide a comprehensive review of research on exercise, nutrition, 
diet, and health in elderly adults. Past studies on diet, nutrition, and fitness 
have largely addressed biomedical outcomes, pointing to substantial benefits in 
physical functioning, remission of disease symptoms, and improved health. This 
special issue goes a step further in assessing the effect of improved nutrition 
and physical activity on the global quality of life and its four principal 
domains. Although links between diet and exercise and chronic disease risks have 
been well documented, more needs to be known about motivations for behavioral 
change and perceived benefits as assessed using quality-of-life measures. No 
single segment of our society can benefit more from regularly performed exercise 
and improved diet than elderly adults. These important articles provide a link 
between diet and exercise and quality-of-life issues, as outlined in the Healthy 
People 2010 report.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/56.suppl_2.89
PMID: 11730242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Calcif Tissue Int. 2001 Oct;69(4):222-4. doi: 10.1007/s00223-001-1057-3.

The assessment of bone mass in men.

Lombardi A(1), Ross PD.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey 07065, USA.

Bone mineral density (BMD) is widely used in postmenopausal women to identify 
who should be given therapy for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and to 
monitor the efficacy of treatment. There is still uncertainty about how to 
interpret BMD in men, and few prospective studies exist on the relationship 
between BMD and fracture risk. Men should be considered for measurement of BMD 
if they have suffered low trauma fractures, have prevalent vertebral 
deformities, have radiographic osteopenia, are over age 75, or have conditions 
that increase their risk for bone loss, such as hypogonadism, glucocorticoid 
use, or generally poor health. There is insufficient information to recommend a 
more widespread BMD screening. The World Health Organization has developed 
criteria for interpreting BMD which are widely used. Patients with BMD at least 
2.5 SD below the young adult mean (T-score < -2.5) have osteoporosis, and those 
with BMD between 1 and -2.5 SD below the young adult mean (-2.5 < T-score < 
-1.0) have osteopenia. However, the BMD criteria that should be used to identify 
men in need of therapeutic intervention are still debated. Using male-specific 
hip BMD cutoffs, approximately 3-6% of U.S. men 50 years and older were 
estimated to have osteoporosis and 28-47% to have osteopenia. The corresponding 
figures in women were 13-18% with osteoporosis and 37-50% with osteopenia. 
Greater accumulation of skeletal mass during growth, slower rate of bone loss, 
and shorter life expectancy in men contribute to the lower prevalence of 
osteoporosis relative to women.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-001-1057-3
PMID: 11730255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2001 Dec;24(10):489-94.

[Gallstone Ileus: results of analysis of a series of 40 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez Hermosa JI(1), Codina Cazador A, Gironès Vilà J, Roig García J, Figa 
Francesch M, Acero Fernández D.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General y Digestiva, Hospital Universitario, Girona.

Gallstone ileus is an infrequent surgical emergency that nevertheless represents 
a not insignificant percentage of occlusions of the small intestine without 
strangulation. We present a retrospective study of 21 years (1980-2000) in 40 
patients. Mean age was 76 years and most of the patients (85%) were women. Mean 
age and associated disease increased throughout the study period. Cases of 
gallstone ileus decreased in the second and third 5-year periods and clearly 
increased in the fourth (1996-2000). Localization of gallstones was ileum in 25 
patients, jejunum in 9, duodenum in 3, colon in 1 and feces in 2. Only 12 
patients (30%) received a correct preoperative diagnosis. Treatment was surgical 
in 38 patients with 7.5% mortality and 57.5% morbidity. Enterolithotomy was the 
technique of choice. A high degree of suspicion for gallstone ileus and early 
treatment may be the factors required to improve prognosis. The increase in life 
expectancy and associated comorbidity, which contraindicate elective surgery for 
cholelithiasis, may be contributing towards an increase in the population prone 
to developing gallstone ileus.

PMID: 11730617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. BMJ. 2001 Dec 1;323(7324):1300-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7324.1300.

NICE: faster access to modern treatments? Analysis of guidance on health 
technologies.

Raftery J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Management Centre, School of Public Policy, University of 
Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2RT. J.P.Raftery@bham.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.323.7324.1300
PMCID: PMC1121756
PMID: 11731399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Pediatrics. 2001 Dec;108(6):E101. doi: 10.1542/peds.108.6.e101.

Newborns with suspected occult spinal dysraphism: a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of diagnostic strategies.

Medina LS(1), Crone K, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)International Health Outcomes and Economics Center, and Division of 
Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology, Miami Children's Hospital, Miami, 
Florida 33155, USA. smedina@post.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical and economic consequences of different 
diagnostic strategies in newborns with suspected occult spinal dysraphism.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed to project the cost and 
health outcomes of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound (US), plain 
radiographs, and no imaging in newborns with suspected occult spinal dysraphism. 
Morbidity and mortality rates of early versus late diagnosis of dysraphism and 
the sensitivity and specificity of MRI, US, and plain radiographs were obtained 
from the literature. Cost estimates were obtained from a hospital cost 
accounting database and from the Medicaid fee schedule.
RESULTS: We found that the choice of imaging strategy depends on the underlying 
risk of occult spinal dysraphism. In low-risk children with intergluteal dimple 
or newborns of diabetic mothers (pretest probability: 0.3%-0.34%), US was the 
most effective strategy with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $55 100 
per quality-adjusted life year gained. For children with lumbosacral dimples, 
who have a higher pretest probability of 3.8%, US was less costly and more 
effective than the other 3 strategies considered. In intermediate-risk newborns 
with low anorectal malformation (pretest probability: 27%), US was more 
effective and less costly than radiographs and no imaging. However, MRI was more 
effective than US at an incremental cost-effectiveness of $1000 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. In the high-risk group that included high 
anorectal malformation, cloacal malformation, and exstrophy (pretest 
probability: 44%-46%), MRI was actually cost-saving when compared with the other 
diagnostic strategies. For the intermediate-risk group, we found our analysis to 
be sensitive to the costs and diagnostic performances (sensitivity and 
specificity) of MRI and US. Lower MRI cost or greater MRI diagnostic performance 
improved the cost-effectiveness of the MRI strategy, whereas lower US cost or 
greater US diagnostic performance worsened the cost-effectiveness of the MRI 
strategy. Therefore, individual or institutional expertise with a specific 
diagnostic modality (MRI versus US) may influence the optimal diagnostic 
strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: In newborns with suspected occult dysraphism, appropriate selection 
of patients and diagnostic strategy may increase quality-adjusted life 
expectancy and decrease cost of medical work-up.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.108.6.e101
PMID: 11731628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Pediatrics. 2001 Dec;108(6):1241-55. doi: 10.1542/peds.108.6.1241.

Annual summary of vital statistics: 2000.

Hoyert DL(1), Freedman MA, Strobino DM, Guyer B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

The birth rate in 2000 (preliminary data) was 14.8 births per 1000 population, 
an increase of 2% from 1999 (14.5). The fertility rate, births per 1000 women 
aged 15 to 44 years, increased 3% to 67.6 in 2000, compared with 65.9 in 1999. 
The 2000 increases in births and the fertility rate were the third consecutive 
yearly increases, the largest in many years, halting the steady decline in the 
number of births and fertility rates in the 1990s. Fertility rates for total 
white, non-Hispanic white, black, and Native American women each increased about 
2% in 2000. The fertility rate for black women, which declined 19% from 1990 to 
1996, has changed little since 1996. The rate for Hispanic women rose 4% in 2000 
to reach the highest level since 1993. Birth rates for women 30 years or older 
continued to increase. The proportion of births to unmarried women remained 
about the same at one third, but the number of births rose 3%. The birth rate 
for teen mothers declined again for the ninth consecutive year. The use of 
timely prenatal care (83.2%) remained unchanged in 2000, and was essentially 
unchanged for non-Hispanic white (88.5%), black (74.2%), and Hispanic (74.4%) 
mothers. The number and rate of multiple births continued their dramatic rise, 
but all of the increase was confined to twins; for the first time in more than a 
decade, the number of triplet and higher-order multiple births declined (4%) 
between 1998 and 1999 (multiple birth information is not available in 
preliminary 2000 data). The overall increases in multiple births account, in 
part, for the lack of improvement in the percentage of low birth weight (LBW) 
births. LBW remained at 7.6% in 2000. The infant mortality rate (IMR) dropped to 
6.9 per 1000 live births (preliminary data) in 2000 (the rate was 7.1 in 1999). 
The ratio of the IMR among black infants to that for white infants was 2.5 in 
2000, the same as in 1999. Racial differences in infant mortality remain a major 
public health concern. The role of low birth weight in infant mortality remains 
a major issue. Among all of the states, Utah and Maine had the lowest IMRs. 
State-by-state differences in IMR reflect racial composition, the percentage 
LBW, and birth weight-specific neonatal mortality rates for each state. The 
United States continues to rank poorly in international comparisons of infant 
mortality. Expectation of life at birth reached a record high of 76.9 years for 
all gender and race groups combined. Death rates in the United States continue 
to decline. The age-adjusted death rate for suicide declined 4% between 1999 and 
2000; homicide declined 7%. Death rates for children 19 years of age or less 
declined for 3 of the 5 leading causes in 2000; cancer and suicide levels did 
not change for children as a group. A large proportion of childhood deaths, 
however, continue to occur as a result of preventable injuries.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.108.6.1241
PMID: 11731644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2002;13(1):33-9. doi: 10.1159/000048631.

Economic evaluation of donepezil treatment for Alzheimer's disease in Japan.

Ikeda S(1), Yamada Y, Ikegami N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Keio University School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. shunya@post.harvard.edu

To demonstrate the economic impact of donepezil treatment for patients with mild 
to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) in Japanese clinical settings, we conducted 
a cost-utility analysis using the Markov model. This analysis was made from a 
payer's perspective, and the cost was estimated based on the fee schedule of the 
Japanese national health insurance and the long-term care insurance. The results 
of the clinical trial of donepezil on AD in Japan were used to estimate the drug 
efficacy. Under the base-case analysis with a 2-year time horizon, donepezil 
treatment for patients with mild to moderate AD was considered to be an 
economically dominant strategy compared to conventional therapy.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000048631
PMID: 11731713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Bull World Health Organ. 2001;79(11):1076-84.

The burden of disease and injury in Australia.

Mathers CD(1), Vos ET, Stevenson CE, Begg SJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Division, Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, Canberra ACT.

An overview of the results of the Australian Burden of Disease (ABD) study is 
presented. The ABD study was the first to use methodology developed for the 
Global Burden of Disease study to measure the burden of disease and injury in a 
developed country. In 1996, mental disorders were the main causes of disability 
burden, responsible for nearly 30% of total years of life lost to disability 
(YLD), with depression accounting for 8% of the total YLD. Ischaemic heart 
disease and stroke were the main contributors to the disease burden 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), together causing nearly 18% of the total 
disease burden. Risk factors such as smoking, alcohol consumption, physical 
inactivity, hypertension, high blood cholesterol, obesity and inadequate fruit 
and vegetable consumption were responsible for much of the overall disease 
burden in Australia. The lessons learnt from the ABD study are discussed, 
together with methodological issues that require further attention.

PMCID: PMC2566696
PMID: 11731817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Neurol Sci. 2001 Jun;22(3):247-51. doi: 10.1007/s100720100021.

Comparison of natural histories of progressive supranuclear palsy and multiple 
system atrophy.

Testa D(1), Monza D, Ferrarini M, Soliveri P, Girotti F, Filippini G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, C. Besta National Neurological Institute, Via 
Celoria 11, I-20133 Milan, Italy.

In order to identify early clinical features and survival predictors of 
supranuclear palsy (PSP) and multiple system atrophy (MSA), we compared the 
disease course of patients consecutively referred between 1987 and 1999 and 
followed to December 1999. Thirty-nine PSP and 74 MSA patients were diagnosed 
according to commonly accepted clinical criteria. Length of survival was 
ascertained from death certificates or by contacting relatives. Ten-year 
survival after disease onset was 29% for both disorders. Median survival was 7.0 
years (PSP) and 7.5 (MSA). Neither age, symptoms at onset, or disability at 
diagnosis predicted survival. At diagnosis, all PSP patients had oculomotor 
palsy, whereas 89% of MSA patients had dysautonomia; bradykinesia and falls were 
the most frequent common signs. Distinctive early signs were palilalia, 
cognitive impairment and hyperreflexia in PSP; hypophonia, anterocollis and 
dysautonomia in MSA. MSA patients responded better to levodopa. Attention to 
early distinctive features can improve differential diagnosis and inform 
subsequent management.

DOI: 10.1007/s100720100021
PMID: 11731878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Gynecol Obstet Fertil. 2001 Oct;29(10):680-91. doi: 
10.1016/s1297-9589(01)00211-9.

[The ovary and insulin resistance].

[Article in French]

Belaisch J(1), Allart JP, Nahmanovici C.

Author information:
(1)jean.belaisch@wanadoo.fr

Insulin resistance appears to be responsible of approximately half of the cases 
of polycystic ovaries, the other half being probably provoked by an anomaly of 
the stimulation of ovaries by an excess of LH. Nevertheless, it is likely that 
in most cases the two factors conjugate. The excess of androgen production by 
the ovarian stroma is one of the major symptoms of this disease. Today, however, 
the diagnosis is carried mainly with the assistance of ultra-sounds which, 
besides the increased ovarian volume, have permitted to discover an increased 
ovarian stromal vascularity. Two essential datas derive from the whole works: 
the increased frequency of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome and the great 
number of metabolic complications which requires an endocrinological 
supervision. But the most recent works focus on the extension to all ages of 
this form of pathology: from the intra-uterine life to the post menopause; and 
on the hereditary character of this disease. The mystery remains concerning the 
mechanism of the favourable effect in clomifene resistant PCOS, of surgical and 
laparoscopic methods of ovulation induction to which it may be useful to resort 
after mature consideration. More recently the benefit at the administration of 
metformine has been confirmed by several works.

DOI: 10.1016/s1297-9589(01)00211-9
PMID: 11732434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J R Soc Med. 2001 Dec;94(12):624-7. doi: 10.1177/014107680109401205.

Cerebral palsy--medicolegal aspects.

Blumenthal I(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Oldham Hospital, Rochdale Road, Oldham OL1 2JH, UK. 
ivan.blumenthal@norford.fsbusiness.co.uk

DOI: 10.1177/014107680109401205
PMCID: PMC1282294
PMID: 11733588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2001 Nov;77(5):395-8. doi: 10.1590/s0066-782x2001001100001.

Mechanical versus biological aortic valve implants in the elderly. A comparison 
of early and mid-term results.

Thulin LI(1), Sjögren JL.

Author information:
(1)Heart Valve Section, Division of Heart and Lung Diseases, University Hospital 
of Lund, Lund, Sweden. lars.thulin@thorax.lu.se

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to compare, in a non randomized study, the surgical 
outcome in elderly patients with mechanical (Group 1; n=83) and bioprosthetic 
valve implants (Group 2; n=136).
METHODS: During a three year period, 219 patients >75 years underwent Aortic 
Valve Replacement. The groups matched according to age, sex, comorbidity, valve 
pathology and concomitant Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery. Follow-up was a total 
of 469 patient-years (mean follow-up 2.1 years, maximum 4,4 years).
RESULTS: Operative mortality was zero and the overall early mortality was 2.3 % 
(within 30 days). Actuarial survival was 87.5 +/- 4.0% and 66.1 +/- 7.7% (NS) at 
4 years in Group 1 and Group 2, respectively. Freedom from valve-related death 
was 88.9 +/- 3.8% in Group 1 and 69.9+/-7.9% (NS) in Group 2 at 4 years.
CONCLUSION: Aortic Valve Replacement in the elderly (>75 years) is a safe 
procedure even in cases where concomitant coronary artery revascularization is 
performed. Only a few anticoagulant-related complications were reported and this 
may indicate that selected groups of elderly patients with significant life 
expectancy may benefit from mechanical implants.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2001001100001
PMID: 11733813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. BMC Evol Biol. 2001 Oct 20;1:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-1-8.

Genome trees constructed using five different approaches suggest new major 
bacterial clades.

Wolf YI(1), Rogozin IB, Grishin NV, Tatusov RL, Koonin EV.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20894, USA. wolf@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: The availability of multiple complete genome sequences from diverse 
taxa prompts the development of new phylogenetic approaches, which attempt to 
incorporate information derived from comparative analysis of complete gene sets 
or large subsets thereof. Such attempts are particularly relevant because of the 
major role of horizontal gene transfer and lineage-specific gene loss, at least 
in the evolution of prokaryotes.
RESULTS: Five largely independent approaches were employed to construct trees 
for completely sequenced bacterial and archaeal genomes: i) presence-absence of 
genomes in clusters of orthologous genes; ii) conservation of local gene order 
(gene pairs) among prokaryotic genomes; iii) parameters of identity distribution 
for probable orthologs; iv) analysis of concatenated alignments of ribosomal 
proteins; v) comparison of trees constructed for multiple protein families. All 
constructed trees support the separation of the two primary prokaryotic domains, 
bacteria and archaea, as well as some terminal bifurcations within the bacterial 
and archaeal domains. Beyond these obvious groupings, the trees made with 
different methods appeared to differ substantially in terms of the relative 
contributions of phylogenetic relationships and similarities in gene repertoires 
caused by similar life styles and horizontal gene transfer to the tree topology. 
The trees based on presence-absence of genomes in orthologous clusters and the 
trees based on conserved gene pairs appear to be strongly affected by gene loss 
and horizontal gene transfer. The trees based on identity distributions for 
orthologs and particularly the tree made of concatenated ribosomal protein 
sequences seemed to carry a stronger phylogenetic signal. The latter tree 
supported three potential high-level bacterial clades,: i) 
Chlamydia-Spirochetes, ii) Thermotogales-Aquificales (bacterial 
hyperthermophiles), and ii) Actinomycetes-Deinococcales-Cyanobacteria. The 
latter group also appeared to join the low-GC Gram-positive bacteria at a deeper 
tree node. These new groupings of bacteria were supported by the analysis of 
alternative topologies in the concatenated ribosomal protein tree using the 
Kishino-Hasegawa test and by a census of the topologies of 132 individual groups 
of orthologous proteins. Additionally, the results of this analysis put into 
question the sister-group relationship between the two major archaeal groups, 
Euryarchaeota and Crenarchaeota, and suggest instead that Euryarchaeota might be 
a paraphyletic group with respect to Crenarchaeota.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that, the extensive horizontal gene flow and 
lineage-specific gene loss notwithstanding, extension of phylogenetic analysis 
to the genome scale has the potential of uncovering deep evolutionary 
relationships between prokaryotic lineages.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-1-8
PMCID: PMC60490
PMID: 11734060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2001 Dec;3(6):454-7. doi: 10.1007/s11906-001-0005-y.

Hypertension and dementia.

Rigaud AS(1), Hanon O, Seux ML, Forette F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Hôpital Broca, CHU Cochin Port-Royal, Université 
René Descartes, Paris V 54/56 Rue Pascal, 75013 Paris, France. 
anne-sophie.rigaud@brc.ap-hop-paris.fr

The increase in life expectancy is associated with a sharp rise in cognitive 
disorders, particularly after the age of 80 years. The identification and 
management of risk factors for these invalidating and distressing conditions 
must be considered a priority. The fact that antihypertensive treatment has been 
demonstrated to decrease that risk offers a new opportunity to reduce the 
prevalence of such related disorders and promote healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-001-0005-y
PMID: 11734088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2001 Nov 29;414(6863):537-41. doi: 10.1038/35107054.

Demography of the endangered North Atlantic right whale.

Fujiwara M(1), Caswell H.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, MS34, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, 
MA, USA. m.fujiwara@whoi.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2001 Nov 29;414(6863):493-4.

Northern right whales (Eubalaena glacialis) were formerly abundant in the 
northwestern Atlantic, but by 1900 they had been hunted to near extinction. 
After the end of commercial whaling the population was thought to be recovering 
slowly; however, evidence indicates that it has been declining since about 1990 
(ref. 1). There are now fewer than 300 individuals, and the species may already 
be functionally extinct owing to demographic stochasticity or the difficulty of 
females locating mates in the vast Atlantic Ocean (Allee effect). Using a data 
set containing over 10,000 sightings of photographically identified individuals 
we estimated trends in right whale demographic parameters since 1980. Here we 
construct, using these estimates, matrix population models allowing us to 
analyse the causes of right whale imperilment. Mortality has increased, 
especially among mother whales, causing declines in population growth rate, life 
expectancy and the mean lifetime number of reproductive events between the 
period 1980-1995. Increased mortality of mother whales can explain the declining 
population size, suggesting that the population is not doomed to extinction as a 
result of the Allee effect. An analysis of extinction time shows that 
demographic stochasticity has only a small effect, but preventing the deaths of 
only two female right whales per year would increase the population growth rate 
to replacement level.

DOI: 10.1038/35107054
PMID: 11734852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Forum (Genova). 2001 Jan-Mar;11(1):4-26.

Pathophysiology, clinical manifestations and supportive care of metastatic brain 
cancer.

Riva M(1), Landonio G, Arena O, Citterio A, Galli C, Ferrante E, Brioschi A, 
Collice M, Gambacorta M, Scialfa G, Defanti CA, Siena S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di NeuroScienze, Ospedale Niguarda CaO Granda, Milano.

Brain metastases (BrM) are tumours that originate in tissues outside the central 
nervous system and spread secondarily to involve mainly the brain. The 
management of patients with cerebral metastases is complex, costly, and in some 
instances controversial. Furthermore, even in patients with widespread systemic 
cancer, the symptoms of the disease are often controllable while the symptoms of 
the BrM may be disabling. The treatment of BrM is one of the few areas of 
neuro-oncology where real progress has been made in the last twenty years. 
Moreover, the costs of managing this disease are rising, as therapies become 
more intensive and the number of patients with BrM increases. Modern 
neuroradiological imaging techniques, which are able to discover BrM earlier in 
the course of systemic cancer, and the greater efficacy of specific treatments, 
which lengthens survival, have increased the prevalence. The aggressive 
treatment of BrM may add some benefits to the patient, but its excessive cost 
leads to the necessity for accurate cost-effectiveness analysis. The latter 
begins with a complete understanding of the disease: its diagnosis, natural 
history and results of various modalities of treatment. While the development of 
BrM usually indicates a poor prognosis for the patient, advances in supportive 
care have made it possible to reverse most of the neurological symptoms and to 
give patients a meaningful extension of useful life.

PMID: 11734861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Forum (Genova). 2001 Jan-Mar;11(1):38-58.

