Treatment of single brain metastases.

Gandola L(1), Navarria P, Lombardi F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Radioterapia, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano, Italy.

Brain metastases (BrM) occur in 30% to 50% of patients with malignant tumours 
and represent a relevant cause of morbidity and mortality. As documented by the 
extensive clinical use of magnetic resonance imaging with contrast enhancement, 
25% to 35% of patients with BrM have a single localisation to the brain. 
Conventional therapeutic options for single BrM consist of either neurosurgery, 
or whole brain irradiation, or a combination of both. Treatment finality for the 
majority of the patients is palliation and life expectancy is in the order of a 
few months. In the last decade, the development of radiosurgery has represented 
an important advancement in the treatment of patients with BrM. This 
radiotherapeutic technique represents a possible non-invasive alternative to 
surgical exeresis for patients with lesions <3 cm, without a cystic component or 
obstructive hydrocephalus. Randomised clinical trials are warranted to define 
the appropriate indications and combinations of radiosurgery, neurosurgery, 
whole brain irradiation, and systemic treatment as well as the impact of 
different treatment modalities on amelioration of survival and quality of life.

PMID: 11734863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Forum (Genova). 2001 Jan-Mar;11(1):59-74.

Controversies in the management of brain metastases: the role of chemotherapy.

Landonio G(1), Sartore-Bianchi A, Giannetta L, Renga M, Riva M, Siena S.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica Falck, Ospedale Niguarda CaO Granda, Milano, 
Italy.

The role of chemotherapy (CT) for brain metastases (BrM) is still controversial. 
Limited life expectancy and presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) have been 
considered as contraindications for relatively aggressive therapies, such as CT. 
Nevertheless, more recent studies emphasise the possibility that in addition to 
historical nitrosoureas, also platinum derivatives, etoposide, teniposide, 
gemcitabine, irinotecan, topotecan and temozolomide can pass the BBB as they are 
active against selected BrM. Interaction of cytotoxic agents with other drugs 
may represent a problem in the treatment of BrM. By far, the most important 
factor conditioning the response to cytotoxic agents is the chemosensitivity of 
different tumours. CT proved to be effective in patients with BrM from lung 
cancer, mainly small cell lung cancer, breast cancer, choriocarcinoma and germ 
cell tumours. In these malignancies the responses to CT are similar to those 
observed in other metastatic sites. This observation, confirmed by many studies, 
contrasts with the theory, emphasised in the past, of the brain as a sanctuary. 
In fact BBB may be important in protecting normal brain tissue and 
micrometastases from CT, but not when BrM are symptomatic and clinically 
evident. The clue to the treatment of chemosensitive tumours is to assess the 
most active drugs and combinations. Cisplatin and etoposide was confirmed to be 
the treatment of choice in many situations (BrM from lung and also from breast 
cancer). Newer drugs are now on study: topotecan and temozolomide seem to be 
particularly promising (alone or in association with other drugs) in the 
treatment of various BrM (also from melanoma) and could represent an alternative 
to more widely-used drugs or as second-line treatments.

PMID: 11734865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Gesundheitswesen. 2001 Dec;63(12):769-74. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-18835.

[Remarks to statement from the rate of cause of death due to ischaemic heart 
diseases].

[Article in German]

Schubert A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutsangaben, Neustrelitz, Germany.

The rate of cause of death due to IHD ('ischaemic heart diseases') represents a 
terminal occurrence of the arteriosclerotic basic disease. lts extent is 
determined by the incidence of cardiovascular diseases, prevalence and duration 
of sickness. The relative frequency of falling ill as well as the reflection of 
the risk of falling ill and the extent of the population fallen ill are not 
known at all or only very insufficiently. Thus the question cannot be answered 
how the risk to fall ill with the coronary heart disease must be considered in 
view of the high mortality rate IHD of the population in the total mortality of 
the population. There are recognizable influences on the rate of cause of death 
due to IHD, such as the duration of sickness, the increasing average life 
expectancy and the procedure of coding death certificates and the selection of 
the basic disease. So the abrupt increase of the infarct mortality after the 
turn in the new federal states, as well as in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania is 
to be attributed to the adoption to the coding procedure. The increasing trend 
of the mortality rate of IHD up to 1995 in Mecklenburg-Western Pomeranian infers 
an individual shortening of the sickness of existing coronary heart diseases 
among the population. After this temporary increase of infarct mortality the 
decrease of this figure suggests prolongation of the duration of sickness. The 
rate of cause of death from 'ischaemic heart diseases' also represents a 
terminal occurrence in life. The development of specific mortality in advanced 
age leads to the observation that the emphasis within the cause of death 
structure among those classifications of the elderly at an extremely advanced 
age, gradually shifts towards mortality caused by ischaemic heart disease. From 
the accompanying decreasing trend of mortality from acute coronary events in the 
younger and medium age classes a decrease in the total mortality can be 
concluded. Even the search for diagnosis during post mortems is reflected in the 
cause of death statistics, which can be evidenced on the basis of comparisons 
made between the figures of death from 'ischaemic heart diseases' and from 
'senility, other symptoms, and imprecisely described conditions'. The difference 
between the original federal states and the new federal states of Eastern 
Germany, as also in the Federal State of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania is 
obvious. Summing up, it can therefore be said, that the cause of death rate from 
'ischaemic heart diseases' is only of limited significance as regards the 
hazards from the underlying arteriosclerotic disease of the blood vessels. lt 
can only be assessed in connection with the age structure of the population and 
the structure of all causes of death. The validity of the cause of death from 
'ischaemic heart diseases' is therefore not very great in reporting practice.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-18835
PMID: 11735071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Med Hypotheses. 2001 Nov;57(5):633-7. doi: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1431.

Medicine may be reducing the human capacity to survive.

Stephan CN(1), Henneberg M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide 5000, 
South Australia. carl.stephan@adelaide.edu.au

It appears that limited natural selection is taking place in populations of 
developed countries, since most individuals survive and have the full 
opportunity to reproduce. This paper addresses contemporary natural selection in 
a developed country (Australia) using the biological state index. Although the 
general context of this paper focuses on Australia it can be expected that most 
other first-world and/or developed countries follow a similar pattern. The 
findings of this study, that 98% of individuals survive through their 
reproductive period and have the full opportunity to reproduce, support 
predictions that natural selection has limited influence on the evolution of 
first-world populations. It appears that first-world populations may not be 
naturally well adapted to their environment but use medical 
treatments/technology to increase their survival capacity and maintain fitness. 
This has two apparent consequences. First, the fitness of individuals will 
decrease, since less favorable genes can accumulate in the population, and 
secondly, disease processes will remain fit as they adapt to the selective 
pressures exerted by medicine. If medical treatment becomes ineffective, 
extensive mortality is expected since fit disease processes will be unleashed on 
unfit human populations. It appears that a possible answer to these problems may 
be found in gene therapy.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1431
PMID: 11735325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Drugs Aging. 2001;18(10):725-35. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200118100-00002.

Current management strategies for hepatitis B in the elderly.

Merle P(1), Trépo C, Zoulim F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Recherche sur les Virus des Hépatites et Pathologies 
Associées, Lyon, France.

Despite the availability of an efficient vaccine, chronic hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) infection remains a major public health problem worldwide. The World 
Health Organization estimates that there are still 350 million chronic carriers 
of the virus who are at risk of developing chronic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis 
and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Antiviral therapy consists of the 
administration of either interferon-alpha (IFN alpha) or lamivudine. In the 
elderly, specific issues should be addressed. Because of the long duration of 
viral infection, screening for HCC is warranted in these patients, as new 
therapeutic options are being developed. Antiviral treatment for chronic 
hepatitis B is indicated in patients with elevated transaminases, the presence 
of HBV replication, and inflammatory activity on liver histology analysis, 
providing the patient has no other serious health problem impacting on life 
expectancy. Since IFN alpha therapy may cause many general adverse effects, 
lamivudine may be the best current treatment option in this patient population. 
The pharmacokinetics of lamivudine in the elderly are slightly different from 
those in younger adults but this does not require dose adjustment, except in the 
presence of renal function impairment. However, the beneficial effects of 
lamivudine therapy must be weighed against the selection of drug-resistant 
mutants. New therapeutic strategies are now under evaluation and may be 
available in the future for the elderly population. Besides mass HBV vaccination 
programmes, people sharing a house with patients infected with HBV should be 
vaccinated to prevent viral transmission.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200118100-00002
PMID: 11735620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Drugs Aging. 2001;18(10):761-72. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200118100-00005.

Epidemiology of breast cancer in older women: implications for future 
healthcare.

Alberg AJ(1), Singh S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. aalberg@jhsph.edu

Breast cancer in elderly women is already a significant public health problem. 
Elderly women have a 6-fold higher breast cancer incidence rate and 8-fold 
higher mortality rate compared with non-elderly women. Because of demographic 
trends, the number of elderly women diagnosed with breast cancer is likely to 
increase substantially in the coming decades. Specifically, if incidence rates 
remain constant, we project a 72% increase in the number of elderly women in the 
US diagnosed with breast cancer by 2025, an increase from approximately 89,500 
in 1998 to almost 154,000 in 2025. If this projection holds true, the sheer 
magnitude of the increase in patients has profound implications for the delivery 
of medical care. Considerable planning is needed to ensure that the 
infrastructure is in place to effectively treat these patients. The burgeoning 
number of elderly patients with breast cancer accentuates the need for more 
definitive evidence concerning preventing and treating breast cancer in the 
elderly. Treatment patterns for elderly patients with breast cancer have been 
shown to differ from those for non-elderly patients, but the evidence base for 
differentiating treatment plans by age is deficient. For example, information is 
needed to tease apart the relative importance of age per se compared with 
important age-related factors, such as comorbidity. Patient care will benefit 
from an interdisciplinary team approach that includes oncologists, 
geriatricians, surgeons, radiation oncologists, nurses and social workers. The 
continued increase in life expectancy necessitates well-crafted strategies for 
the primary and secondary prevention of breast cancer. Carefully addressing the 
priorities for breast cancer prevention and control in the elderly during the 
first portion of the century may reap substantial dividends by the end of the 
century.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200118100-00005
PMID: 11735623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(11):1091-102. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200119110-00003.

Cost effectiveness of treatment options in advanced breast cancer in the UK.

Brown RE(1), Hutton J, Burrell A.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Inc., London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare clinical and economic study data for docetaxel, paclitaxel 
and vinorelbine in the treatment of anthracycline-resistant advanced breast 
cancer.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov decision-analysis model to simulate the 
clinical course of a 'typical' patient with advanced breast cancer during 
salvage chemotherapy was updated with response rates and adverse effect rates 
from phase III clinical trial data for docetaxel, paclitaxel and vinorelbine. 
Costs were taken from UK national databases and hospitals. Utilities were 
estimated from 30 oncology nurses in the UK using the standard gamble method.
PERSPECTIVE: National Health Service.
RESULTS: When compared with other chemotherapeutic agents, docetaxel has been 
shown to increase response rate, time to progression and survival in patients 
with advanced breast cancer. In the base-case analysis, the incremental 
cost-utility ratio for docetaxel versus paclitaxel was pound1995 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (1998 values). The incremental 
cost-utility ratio for docetaxel versus vinorelbine was pound14 055 per QALY 
gained. In the comparison with vinorelbine, docetaxel provided the equivalent of 
an additional 92 days of perfect health. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the 
robustness of the model and the validity of the base-case analysis results. Even 
in the worst case scenarios, docetaxel remained cost effective compared with 
paclitaxel and vinorelbine.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the use of the taxoids, notably docetaxel, 
in the management of advanced breast cancer.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119110-00003
PMID: 11735676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(11):1103-9. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200119110-00004.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and the consistency of decision making: evidence 
from pharmaceutical reimbursement in australia (1991 to 1996).

George B(1), Harris A, Mitchell A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Policy and Practice, University of London School of Pharmacy, 
Tower Hamlets PCG and Barts' and the London NHS Trust, London, UK. 
bethan.george@ulsop.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: The principle aim of this study was to generate a league table of 
drugs considered by the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee 
(PBAC) for reimbursement. The table was used to test the hypothesis that 
decisions made by the PBAC are consistent with the maxim of economic efficiency. 
In addition, we explored whether the past decisions by the PBAC revealed a 
threshold incremental cost-effectiveness ratio beyond which the PBAC is not 
prepared to recommend reimbursement of a drug.
METHODS: All 355 submissions made to the PBAC between January 1991 and June 1996 
were reviewed. Submissions using cost per life-year gained (26 submissions) or 
the cost per quality adjusted life-year (QALY) gained (9 submissions) were 
ranked in a league table and compared with advice given by the PBAC about that 
drug. The confidentiality restrictions for the submissions require that the 
individual drug details cannot be revealed in this article.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between the cost per 
life-year gained for drugs that were recommended for listing and those that were 
not, suggesting that the PBAC has been broadly consistent with the use of 
economic efficiency as a criterion for decision making. We did not find an 
explicit threshold beyond which the PBAC was unwilling to pay for additional 
life years gained. However, between 1992 and 1996 the PBAC appears to have been 
unlikely to recommend a drug for listing if the additional cost per life-year 
exceeded 76 000 Australian dollars [$AU] (1998/1999 values) and was unlikely to 
reject a drug for which the additional cost per life-year gained was less than 
$AU42 000. The cost-effectiveness ratio was not the only factor determining the 
reimbursement decision.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this preliminary study indicate that decisions to 
recommend a drug for listing by the PBAC in the last few years have, by and 
large, been consistent with the notion of economic efficiency.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119110-00004
PMID: 11735677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2001 Dec;52(6):647-53. doi: 
10.1046/j.0306-5251.2001.01492.x.

HRT and its effect on normal ageing of the brain and dementia.

Compton J(1), van Amelsvoort T, Murphy D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny 
Park, London SE5 8AF.

There are significant gender differences in human brain disease. For example, 
females are significantly more likely to suffer from Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
than men (even after correcting for differences in life expectancy), and females 
on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) are significantly less likely to suffer 
from Alzheimer's disease than women who do not take HRT. However the 
neurobiological basis to these differences in clinical brain disease were 
unknown until relatively recently. In this review we will discuss results of 
studies that show; (i) gender differences in human brain disease are most likely 
to be explained by gender differences in brain development and ageing; (ii) sex 
steroids have a significant effect on the brain; (iii) sex steroids are crucial 
to the development and ageing of brain regions affected in age-related brain 
diseases (for example AD); (iv) sex steroids interact with neuronal networks and 
chemical systems at many different levels; (v) sex steroids affect cognitive 
function in elderly women. Thus, the current literature supports the hypothesis 
that sex steroids can modulate brain ageing, and this provides a neurobiological 
explanation for the significantly higher prevalence of AD in females who do not 
take HRT, and may lead to new treatment approaches for age-related brain disease 
including AD.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0306-5251.2001.01492.x
PMCID: PMC2014570
PMID: 11736875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2001 Dec;12(6):579-88. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.120605.x.

A meta-analytic, quantitative assessment of osseointegration establishment and 
evolution of submerged and non-submerged endosseous titanium oral implants.

Boioli LT(1), Penaud J, Miller N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Implantology, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Nancy, 4, rue du Docteur Heydenreich, BP 3034, F-54012 Nancy 
Cedex, France.

Two implant placement methods are used in oral implantology: submerged (S, 
two-stage surgical procedure) and non-submerged (NS, one-stage surgery). 
However, a quantitative assessment of their influence on implant 
osseointegration, summarising the whole present experience, is not directly 
possible, owing to the lack of normalisation of the published results. To 
overcome this difficulty, selection criteria have been applied to the latter in 
a process of a meta-analysis of specialised literature, in order to authorise a 
pooled treatment with an adequate statistical method. Survival life tables are 
established (up to 15 and 10 years respectively for S and NS implants placed in 
normal situations) for extended samples (13049 S and 5515 NS implants). Early 
(before loading) failure rates and 95% confidence level ranges of cumulative 
implant survival rates are shown. For both categories, the quality of the 
placement stage remains critical to ensure optimal osseointegration behaviour. 
Both categories match current survival requirements, but with a quite different 
behaviour over time. NS implants, while osseointegrating better initially, are 
subject to causes of osseointegration loss, which persist over a longer period 
of time. Implant design characteristics (including the type of surface) seem to 
be more relevant than the placement procedure for the implant's behaviour. This 
is in agreement with recent histological and preliminary clinical results, and 
should be confirmed by further studies.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2001.120605.x
PMID: 11737101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. HIV Med. 2001 Jan;2(1):52-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1468-1293.2001.00048.x.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of HAART for adults with HIV in England.

Miners AH(1), Sabin CA, Trueman P, Youle M, Mocroft A, Johnson M, Beck EJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal Free Centre for HIV Medicine, Department of Primary Care and Population 
Sciences, Royal Free and University College Medical School, London, UK. 
alec@rfhsm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) compared with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
(NRTIs) for HIV infected individuals.
DESIGN: Different data sources on the clinical effects and costs of treatments 
were combined using a Markov model.
SETTING: English HIV treatment centres. Perspective UK public finance.
INTERVENTIONS: HAART - dual NRTI therapy plus a protease inhibitor or a 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor - vs. dual NRTI therapy.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohorts of 1000 individuals infected with HIV. 
Outcome measures Projected life expectancy, cost-effectiveness in UK pound per 
life-year saved and per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) saved.
RESULTS: Assuming a 2-year additional treatment effect of therapy with HAART 
produced incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of pound14 602 per life-year 
saved and pound17 698 per QALY saved.
CONCLUSIONS: The results were sensitive to a number of assumptions including the 
cost of HAART and the discount rate, but they suggest that the use of HAART in 
England is at least moderately cost-effective compared with treatment with two 
NRTIs alone.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1468-1293.2001.00048.x
PMID: 11737376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Eval Clin Pract. 2001 Nov;7(4):355-63. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2753.2001.00297.x.

Towards case-based performance measures: uncovering deficiencies in applied 
medical care.

Hoelzer S(1), Waechter W, Stewart A, Liu R, Schweiger R, Dudeck J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Justus-Liebig University of Giessen, 
Giessen, Germany. sh@patientcare.de

Measures are designed to evaluate the processes and outcomes of care associated 
with the delivery of clinical (and non-clinical) services. They allow for intra- 
and interorganizational comparison to be used continuously to improve patient 
health outcomes. The use of performance measures always means to abstract the 
complex reality (medical scenarios and procedures) in order to provide an 
understandable and comparable output. Measures can focus on global performance. 
The more detailed data are available the more specific judgements with respect 
to the appropriateness of clinical decision-making and implementation of 
evidence are feasible. Externally reported measures are intended both to inform 
and lead to action. By providing this information, deficiencies in patient care 
and unnecessary variations in the care process can be uncovered. Such variations 
have contributed to disparities in morbidity and mortality. The developments in 
information technology, especially world-wide interconnectivity, standards for 
electronic data exchange and facilities to store and manage large amounts of 
data, offer the opportunity to analyse health-relevant information in order to 
make the delivery of healthcare services more transparent for consumers and 
providers. Global performance measures, such as the overall life expectancy 
(mortality) in a country, can give a rough orientation of how well health 
systems perform but they do not offer general solutions nor specific insights 
into care processes that have to be improved. In contrast to population-based 
measures, case-based performance measures use a defined group of patients 
depending on specific patient characteristics and features of disease. By means 
of these measures we are able to compare the number of patients that receive a 
necessary medical procedure against those patients who do not. The use of 
case-based measures is a bottom-up approach to improve the overall performance 
in the long run. They are not only a tool for global orientation but can offer a 
straightforward link to the areas of deficient care and the underlying 
procedures. Performance measures are relevant to providers as well as consumers, 
from their own individual perspective. Cased-based measures focus on the 
management of individual patient. This approach to performance measurement can 
inform physicians in a meaningful and constructive way by monitoring their 
individual performance and by pointing out possible areas of improvement.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2753.2001.00297.x
PMID: 11737527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Neurologia. 2001 Oct;16(8):353-69.

[Update on diagnosis and treatment of normotensive hydrocephalus (chronic 
hydrocephalus of the adult)].

[Article in Spanish]

Poca MA(1), Sahuquillo J, Mataró M.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de Neurocirugía, Hospital Universitario Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona. 
26382app@comb.es

Normal pressure hydrocephalus, or adult chronic hydrocephalus, is a relatively 
unknown entity. Classically, this disease is characterized by progressive 
dementia, gait disturbance, and urinary incontinence. Despite an increase in the 
prevalence of this type of dementia due to longer life expectancy, its diagnosis 
and treatment remain controversial. Recent studies have reported that the 
percentage of patients who show clinical improvement after shunting is still low 
and that the complication rate is excessively high. However, our experience and 
that of other authors indicates that the percentage of improvement after 
shunting can be greater than 80% and the complication rate can be low if a 
strict diagnostic protocol is applied and if the most appropriate valve is 
selected, based on the hydrodynamic characteristics of the shunt. The aim of 
this review is to provide an update of the clinical features, diagnosis and 
treatment of adult chronic hydrocephalus. We also discuss the diagnostic and 
treatment protocols applied in our centre in patients with suspected adult 
chronic hydrocephalus.

PMID: 11738013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Exp Gerontol. 2001 Dec;37(1):157-67. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00154-1.

The new trends in survival improvement require a revision of traditional 
gerontological concepts.

Yashin AI(1), Begun AS, Boiko SI, Ukraintseva SV, Oeppen J.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, 114 Doberaner Street, Rostock, 
Germany. yashin@demogr.mpg.de

In 1960, Strehler and Mildvan (SM) theoretically predicted that the parameters 
of the Gompertz approximation to a mortality curve are negatively correlated. 
This means that the changes in the human mortality rate resulting from 
improvement in living standards, progress in health care or the influence of 
other factors must follow certain regularities prescribed by dependence between 
the Gompertz parameters. Such dependence, called SM correlation, was then 
confirmed in a number of empirical studies using period data on human mortality. 
Since the SM theory was based on the cohort model of mortality, it was tacitly 
assumed that period and cohort SM correlation patterns are similar. The 
remarkable stability of the SM correlation pattern revealed in these studies was 
often regarded as manifestation of a universal demographic law regulating 
changes in the age pattern of mortality rates. In this paper, we investigated 
trends in mortality decline in France, Japan, Sweden and the United States. In 
contrast with traditional expectations, we found that the SM correlation pattern 
was relatively stable only in certain periods of a population's survival 
history. Recently, several new correlation patterns emerged and, despite some 
differences in the timing of the changes, the new patterns are remarkably 
similar in all four countries. Contrary to traditional expectations, the 
patterns are not the same for cohort and period mortality data when SM 
correlations are calculated for France, Sweden and the United States. We show 
that some changes in the patterns of SM correlation admit interpretation in 
terms of a biological mechanism of individual adaptation (survival trade off). 
Some other patterns, however, contradict basic postulates of the SM theory. This 
indicates the need for revision of traditional concepts establishing the 
relationship between physiological and demographic patterns of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00154-1
PMID: 11738156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2001 Dec 1;164(11):2057-66. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.164.11.2003151.

The cost effectiveness of early treatment with fluticasone propionate 250 microg 
twice a day in subjects with obstructive airway disease. Results of the DIMCA 
program.

van den Boom G(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP, Molema J, Tirimanna PR, van Weel C, van 
Schayck CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice and Social Medicine, University of Nijmegen, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

In a two-stage detection program, subjects with signs of obstructive airway 
disease were selected from a random sample of the general population. Subjects 
(n = 82) were randomly assigned to either fluticasone propionate 250 microg 
twice a day or placebo twice a day via pMDI in a 1-yr, double-blind trial if 
they met criteria for persistent airway obstruction, increased bronchial 
hyperresponsiveness, or a rapid decline in FEV(1). Main outcome measures were 
postbronchodilator FEV(1), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and direct 
medical cost. Secondary measures were prebronchodilator FEV(1), PC(20), 
health-related quality of life (CRQ), symptom-free weeks, episode-free weeks, 
exacerbations, and indirect cost. Subgroup analysis was based on reversibility 
of obstruction. Analysis revealed a significant gain in postbronchodilator 
FEV(1) (98 ml/yr; p = 0.01) in favor of fluticasone. Only subjects with 
reversible obstruction showed an improvement in PC(20) (1.4 doubling dose; p = 
0.03). Early treatment resulted in 2.7 QALYs gained per 100 treated subjects (p 
= 0.17) and in a clinically relevant improvement in dyspnea (CRQ; p < 0.03). The 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios were US$13,016/QALY for early treatment 
and US$33,921/QALY for the combination of detection and treatment. The 
incremental cost for one additional subject with a clinically relevant 
difference in dyspnea was US$1,674. In conclusion, early intervention with 
fluticasone resulted in significant health gains at relatively low financial 
cost.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.164.11.2003151
PMID: 11739135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Stroke. 2001 Dec 1;32(12):2787-92. doi: 10.1161/hs1201.099649.

Redo carotid endarterectomy versus primary carotid endarterectomy.

AbuRahma AF(1), Jennings TG, Wulu JT, Tarakji L, Robinson PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Charleston Area Medical Center, Robert C. Byrd Health 
Sciences Center of West Virginia University, Charleston, WV, USA. 
Ali.aburahma@camcare.com

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Several authorities have recently advocated carotid 
stenting for recurrent carotid stenosis because of the perception that redo 
surgery has a higher complication rate than primary carotid endarterectomy 
(CEA). This study compares the early and late results of reoperations versus 
primary CEA.
METHODS: All reoperations for recurrent carotid stenosis performed during a 
recent 7-year period by a single vascular surgeon were compared with primary 
CEA. Because all redo CEAs were done with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) or vein 
patch closure, we only analyzed those primary CEAs that used the same patch 
closures. A Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis was used to estimate stroke-free 
survival rates and freedom from >/=50% recurrent stenosis.
RESULTS: Of 547 primary CEAs, 265 had PTFE or saphenous vein patch closure, and 
124 reoperations had PTFE or vein patch closure during the same period. Both 
groups had similar demographic characteristics. The indications for reoperation 
and primary CEA were symptomatic stenosis in 78% and 58% of cases and 
asymptomatic >/=80% stenosis in 22% and 42% of cases, respectively (P<0.001). 
The 30-day perioperative stroke and transient ischemic attack rates for 
reoperation and primary CEA were 4.8% versus 0.8% (P=0.015) and 4% versus 1.1%, 
respectively, with no perioperative deaths in either group. Cranial nerve injury 
was noted in 17% of reoperation patients versus 5.3% of primary CEA patients; 
however, most of these injuries were transient (P<0.001). Mean hospital stay was 
1.8 days for reoperation versus 1.6 days for primary CEA. Cumulative rates of 
stroke-free survival and freedom from >/=50% recurrent stenosis for reoperation 
and primary CEA at 1, 3, and 5 years were 96%, 91%, and 82% and 98%, 96%, and 
95% versus 94%, 92%, and 91% and 98%, 96%, and 96%, respectively (no significant 
differences).
CONCLUSIONS: Reoperation carries higher perioperative stroke and cranial nerve 
injury rates than primary CEA. However, reoperations are durable and have 
stroke-free survival rates that are similar to primary CEA. These considerations 
should be kept in mind when carotid stenting is recommended instead of 
reoperation.

DOI: 10.1161/hs1201.099649
PMID: 11739974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Cardiology. 2001;96(2):78-84. doi: 10.1159/000049088.

Benefit and safety of enhanced external counterpulsation in treating coronary 
artery disease patients with a history of congestive heart failure.

Lawson WE(1), Kennard ED, Holubkov R, Kelsey SF, Strobeck JE, Soran O, Feldman 
AM; IEPR investigators.

Author information:
(1)SUNY at Stony Brook, NY, USA. wlawson@ts.uh.sunysb.edu

Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) is used to noninvasively treat 
refractory angina patients, including those with a history of heart failure. The 
International EECP Patient Registry was used to examine the benefit and safety 
of EECP treatment, including a 6-month follow-up, in 1,957 patients, 548 with a 
history of heart failure. The heart failure cohort was older, with more females, 
a greater duration of coronary artery disease, more prior infarcts and 
revascularizations. Significantly fewer heart failure patients completed the 
course of EECP, and exacerbation of heart failure was more frequent, though 
overall major adverse cardiac events (MACE, i.e. death, myocardial infarction, 
revascularization) during treatment were not significantly different. The angina 
class improved in 68%, with comparable quality of life benefit, in the heart 
failure cohort. At 6 months, patients with congestive heart failure maintained 
their reduction in angina but were significantly more likely to have experienced 
a MACE end point.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000049088
PMID: 11740136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Croat Med J. 2001 Dec;42(6):601-5.

What is happening to the health of the Croatian population?

Bozicević I(1), Oresković S, Stevanović R, Rodin U, Nolte E, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom. Ivana.Bozicevic@lshtm.ac.uk

AIM: To describe the problems in the interpretation of Croatian mortality data 
and explore possible reasons for the recorded increase in mortality in the 
1990-1999 period, particularly related to different methods of collection and 
estimation of data on deaths and population.
METHODS: Numbers of recorded deaths and population estimates were first obtained 
from the Croatian Institute for Public Health and examined in detail. The 
Institute used population estimates supplied by the Croatian Statistics Bureau, 
which included de jure population data (including all Croatian citizens wherever 
they live) until 1996 and de facto population data (including only population 
living in Croatia at least for a year, irrespective of citizenship) since 1996. 
A different set of population estimates based on de facto estimates since 1992 
was obtained from the Croatian Bureau of Statistics. We examined trends in age- 
and sex-specific death rates from major causes in 1990-1999 period, using the 
mortality data from the Croatian Institute for Public Health and both sets of 
population estimates. Lung cancer as a cause of death was examined in more 
detail, since it is relatively stable over short periods of time. Interviews 
were undertaken with key informants to identify the reasons for any 
discrepancies.
RESULTS: In Croatia, relatively stable death rates from lung cancer in men 
ranged from 84/100,000 in 1990 to 79/ 100,000 in 1995. In 1996, a marked 
discontinuity appeared in the Croatian data, with a 14% increase compared to 
1995 (from 79/100,000 to 91/100,000) and a further increase in 1999 
(94/100,000), which is not credible on the basis of the natural history of lung 
cancer. Analysis of mortality rates with de facto population estimates showed 
more gradual increase from 1992-1996. Methods used to estimate population and 
mortality during the 1990s were inconsistent and misleading. At present, it is 
impossible to be certain about the true level of mortality in Croatia during 
1990s, as the numerator (deaths) and denominator (population) were incompatible 
until 1998.
CONCLUSION: Major problems in data collection would have been identified if the 
investigation of unexpected mortality trends in Croatia in the 1990s had been 
done. Systematic analysis of health patterns should be done as soon as data from 
the 2001 census become available. Capacities in public health should be 
strengthened to make this possible. This issue has received little recognition 
from the international donor organizations, particularly those that use health 
data.

PMID: 11740840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Eur Heart J. 2002 Jan;23(1):5-7. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2903.

Pricing a year of life: a necessary exercise in modern health care.

Baumbach A, Karsch KR.

Comment on
    Eur Heart J. 2002 Jan;23(1):50-8.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2903
PMID: 11741354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Eur Heart J. 2002 Jan;23(1):50-8. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2711.

Cost effectiveness of eptifibatide in acute coronary syndromes; an economic 
analysis of Western European patients enrolled in the PURSUIT trial. The 
Platelet IIa/IIb in unstable Angina: Receptor Suppression Using Integrilin 
Therapy.

Brown RE(1), Henderson RA, Koster D, Hutton J, Simoons ML.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International Inc, London, U.K.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2002 Jan;23(1):5-7.

AIMS: To assess the direct medical costs and cost effectiveness of routine 
eptifibatide use amongst patients with unstable angina and myocardial infarction 
without persistent ST-segment elevation in the Western European subgroup of the 
PURSUIT trial.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Health care resources were collected for the Western 
European PURSUIT trial patients (n=3697). Unit costs for major resources were 
developed within six countries using a consistent bottom-up methodology. 
Resource consumption from the Western European population was used to calculate 
the average direct medical costs per patient in the eptifibatide and placebo 
arms of the trial. Eptifibatide was estimated to cost 524 Euros per treatment. 
Long-term survival estimated from the 6-month trial survival data and combined 
with the cost data was used to calculate cost-effectiveness ratios. 
Additionally, cost per death and non-fatal myocardial infarction at 30 days was 
calculated. Sensitivity analyses were conducted on the discount rate and 
resource consumption. Cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 9603 Euros to 18 115 
Euros per year of life saved with 3% discount. Using resource consumption based 
on countries with low coronary arteriography rates, the cost per year of life 
saved was between 3329 Euros and 10 079 Euros. Using resource consumption based 
on high coronary arteriography rate countries, the cost per year of life saved 
was between 17 089 Euros and 24 099 Euros. Assuming no difference in treatment 
costs except for the addition of eptifibatide, the incremental cost per year of 
life saved was 23 818 Euros.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine eptifibatide use was associated with a reduction in the 
combined end-point of death and myocardial infarction at 30 days, which was 
sustained at 6 months. Long-term projections indicate a modest increase in 
survival in eptifibatide patients. These data translate into cost-effectiveness 
ratios that compare favourably with other new technologies that are currently in 
use.

Copyright 2001 The European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2711
PMID: 11741362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Bull Cancer. 2001 Nov;88(11):1119-27.

[Cost-effectiveness in diagnosis and treatment of carcinomas of unknown primary 
origin].

[Article in French]

Desboeuf K(1), Molinier L, Carrère MO, Bugat R, Boisseau M, Machelard-Sauvage M, 
Voigt JJ, Pous J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de pharmacologie médicale et clinique, Inserm U 317, Faculté de 
médecine, Toulouse.

The aim was to compare, in terms of cost-effectiveness, two diagnostic 
strategies for finding out the primary site of tumors revealed by metastasis, 
adopting the hospital's perspective. The observed strategy reflected the usual 
practices of doctors at the Regional Cancer Center in Toulouse (France), and was 
based on a sample of 202 patients of this Center. The standardized strategy, 
which reflected limited diagnostic investigation, was simulated using the same 
sample of patients to whom we applied the recommendations of local experts. In 
the low assumption regarding the effectiveness of the standardized strategy, the 
observed strategy compared to the standardized one raised the life expectancy 
from 407 to 418 days at an incremental cost of $US 1,236 per patient (1996 
values). In this case, one day of additional life induced a cost of $US 112 per 
patient. In the high assumption, the incremental effectiveness was null and the 
incremental cost was $US 1,236 per patient. In conclusion, the effectiveness of 
the observed strategy as compared to the standardized strategy was highly 
questionable, given that the patients' quality of life was not taken into 
account.

PMID: 11741806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Surgery. 2001 Dec;130(6):921-30. doi: 10.1067/msy.2001.118370.

Optimal treatment strategy in patients with papillary thyroid cancer: a decision 
analysis.

Esnaola NF(1), Cantor SB, Sherman SI, Lee JE, Evans DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Tex. 77030-4009, USA.

BACKGROUND: The management of patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) 
remains controversial. We used decision analysis to identify the optimal 
treatment strategy for patients with PTC, stratified by risk-group 
classification.
METHODS: We designed a Markov model to compare thyroid lobectomy and total 
thyroidectomy (with adjuvant radioiodine therapy) in low- and high-risk patients 
with PTC. Morbidity, recurrence, and mortality estimates were obtained from the 
literature. Outcomes were quality-adjusted by using health state preferences.
RESULTS: In low-risk patients, lobectomy and total thyroidectomy resulted in 
31.7 and 32.9 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Total thyroidectomy was the 
optimal strategy as long as the relative risk of recurrence after lobectomy was 
greater than 1.3. Lobectomy became the preferred strategy if subjects were 
willing to give up 1.5 years of life to avoid thyroid hormone dependency and a 
remote risk of radioiodine-induced malignancy. In high-risk patients, lobectomy 
and total thyroidectomy resulted in 11.2 and 16.5 QALYs. Model results were 
robust to varying the permanent complication rates of initial or completion 
thyroidectomy, the efficacy of adjuvant radioiodine therapy, and the impact of 
complications and cancer recurrence on quality of life, irrespective of 
risk-group classification.
CONCLUSIONS: Total thyroidectomy maximized quality-adjusted life expectancy in 
low- and high-risk patients with PTC.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2001.118370
PMID: 11742318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Theor Biol. 2001 Dec 21;213(4):547-57. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.2001.2435.

An application of a general branching process in the study of the genetics of 
aging.

Olofsson P(1), Schwalb O, Chakraborty R, Kimmel M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Rice University, Houston, TX 77251, USA.

A general branching process model is developed to analyse familial dependence in 
longevity data. A general formula for the survival function of a randomly chosen 
sibling of an individual of a specified age is derived. The branching process 
model takes into account that siblings' ages may be censored. This is applied to 
a data set consisting of lifelengths of siblings of centenarians. Age 
distributions used in the branching process model are estimated from US Census 
data from the relevant period. It is demonstrated that there is a marked 
difference in the survival function according to the formula assuming no 
familial effect and the empirical survival function estimated from the data; 
thus, indicating a strong familial component.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.2001.2435
PMID: 11742524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Age Ageing. 2001 Nov;30(6):509-15. doi: 10.1093/ageing/30.6.509.

Active and cognitive impairment-free life expectancies: results from the Melton 
Mowbray 75+ health checks.

Sauvaget C(1), Jagger C, Arthur AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate active and cognitive impairment-free life expectancy at 
older ages from longitudinal data collected during two consecutive rounds of 
health checks for patients aged > or =75 years.
SETTING: A single, large general practice serving Melton Mowbray, 
Leicestershire, UK, and its surrounding area.
OUTCOME MEASURES: active life expectancy was defined by independence in seven 
activities of daily living (mobility, transfer from bed, transfer from chair, 
bathing, feeding, dressing, using the toilet). Cognitive impairment was defined 
by a score of < or =7 on the information/orientation subtest of the Clifton 
Assessment Procedures of the Elderly.
RESULTS: We assessed 1557 people aged > or =75 years at baseline. Active life 
expectancy at age 75 was 4.6 years for men and 3.1 years for women (50.5 and 
29.2% of remaining life). Cognitive impairment-free life expectancy at age 75 
was 8.4 years for men and 9.9 years for women (92.3 and 93.4% of remaining 
life). The proportion of active life decreased dramatically with age in both 
sexes: after the age of 87, almost all of remaining life was spent with some 
activity restriction. The proportion of life free from cognitive impairment, in 
comparison, decreased slowly in men and remained relatively constant in women at 
around 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: The extra years lived by women over men appear to be spent with 
some form of activity restriction, although not all with cognitive impairment. 
Monitoring these trends over time will be important to ascertain whether we are 
exchanging longer life for poorer health.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/30.6.509
PMID: 11742781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Pediatr. 2001 Dec;139(6):785-9. doi: 10.1067/mpd.2001.119593.

Impact of chronic transfusion on incidence of pain and acute chest syndrome 
during the Stroke Prevention Trial (STOP) in sickle-cell anemia.

Miller ST(1), Wright E, Abboud M, Berman B, Files B, Scher CD, Styles L, Adams 
RJ; STOP Investigators.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York-Downstate Medical Center/Kings County Hospital 
Center, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2002 Nov;141(5):742-3; author reply 743.

OBJECTIVE: The Stroke Prevention Trial (STOP) demonstrated that chronic 
transfusion is highly effective in reducing the risk of stroke in children with 
sickle-cell disease and an abnormal transcranial Doppler ultrasonography 
examination result. Our objective was to determine whether chronic transfusion 
therapy reduces the incidence of pain and acute chest syndrome.
METHODS: During STOP, 130 children with sickle-cell anemia or sickle 
beta(0)-thalassemia and abnormal transcranial Doppler ultrasonography 
examination result were randomly assigned to chronic transfusion (n = 63) or 
observation (n = 67). In addition to monitoring for stroke, nonneurologic 
sickle-cell complications were identified and recorded.
RESULTS: Mean age at STOP study entry was 8.3 +/- 3.3 years, and mean follow-up 
was 19.6 +/- 6.5 months. Hospitalization rates (based on intent-to-treat 
analysis) for acute chest syndrome were 4.8 and 15.3 per 100 patient-years (P 
=.0027) and for pain were 16.2 and 27.6 per 100 patient-years (P =.13) in the 
chronic transfusion and observed groups, respectively. If analyzed according to 
treatment actually received, the difference in pain rate becomes significant 
(9.7 vs 27.1 events per 100 patient-years, P =.014), and transfusion remains 
protective from acute chest syndrome (2.2 vs 15.7 events per 100 patient-years, 
P =.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Compliance with aggressive chronic transfusion reduces the 
frequency of acute chest syndrome and pain episodes.

DOI: 10.1067/mpd.2001.119593
PMID: 11743502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Vasc Surg. 2001 Dec;34(6):1004-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2001.119750.

Impact of reintervention for failing upper-extremity arteriovenous autogenous 
access for hemodialysis.

Hingorani A(1), Ascher E, Kallakuri S, Greenberg S, Khanimov Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, New York 11219, USA.

PURPOSE: Although large published series have described their experience with 
the management of failed or failing prosthetic arteriovenous grafts for 
hemodialysis, there are scant data regarding failing arteriovenous fistulae 
(AVFs). To analyze the management of nonfunctioning or nonmaturing AVFs, we 
reviewed our experience with salvage procedures for these AVFs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Of the 474 AVFs placed at our institution in 380 patients 
between June 1997 and March 2001, 75 revisions were performed in 46 patients (49 
AVFs). Ages of these patients ranged from 29 to 94 years (mean, 68 +/- 1.4 
years). Diabetic patients comprised 51%, and hypertensive patients comprised 
75%. Twenty patients underwent 26 vein patch angioplasties, and 17 patients 
underwent 24 balloon angioplasties. Four patients required four vein 
interpositions, and 12 patients underwent 12 revisions of the fistula to a more 
proximal level. Extended salvage procedures consisted of four turn-downs to the 
basilic vein for proximal cephalic vein thrombosis or stenosis and five 
extension bypasses to the axillary or jugular vein for subclavian vein 
thrombosis.
RESULTS: Follow-up ranged from 1 to 31 months (mean, 10 months). The patients 
who underwent open revisions tended to need fewer subsequent procedures. 
However, primary patency of the vein patch angioplasty was not significantly 
better as compared with balloon angioplasty (P = .8) by life table analysis. 
Patency after revision of a radial cephalic fistula and brachial cephalic 
fistula were not statistically different. One interposition failed during the 
follow-up, and one revision to a more proximal level thrombosed during the 
follow-up. Two of the turn-down procedures had thrombosed at 2 and 11 months. 
The remaining two turn-down procedures have remained functional at 1 and 24 
months. One of the extensions thrombosed at 8 months whereas the other four have 
remained functional at 1, 6, and 8 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the limited follow-up data, this review suggests that 
simple and extended salvage procedures may allow maturation and add to the life 
span of AVFs for hemodialysis. In addition, these data suggest an advantage for 
open techniques as compared with percutaneous techniques but only in terms of 
requiring fewer subsequent procedures.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2001.119750
PMID: 11743552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


