37. Semin Liver Dis. 2001 Nov;21(4):471-88. doi: 10.1055/s-2001-19030.

Cholangiocyte biology and cystic fibrosis liver disease.

Feranchak AP(1), Sokol RJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department 
of Pediatrics, The Children's Hospital and the University of Colorado Health 
Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado 80218, USA. drew.feranchak@UCHSC.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common inherited diseases in the white 
population. The disease results from mutations in the gene for the cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). How this gene defect leads 
to the clinical manifestations of the disease, however, is not entirely clear. 
CFTR functions as a Cl(-) channel in the apical membrane of most secretory 
epithelia, including biliary epithelial cells, or cholangiocytes. In 
cholangiocytes, CFTR appears to be an important determinant of biliary secretion 
and bile flow. Additionally, recent evidence suggests that CFTR regulates other 
membrane transporters, channels, and proteins. Improving life expectancy has led 
to an increasing recognition of hepatobiliary complications from CF. The true 
prevalence of CF liver disease is unknown, but may affect up to 17-25% of CF 
patients. Clinical manifestations include hepatic steatosis, neonatal 
cholestasis, focal nodular cirrhosis, multilobular cirrhosis, and biliary tract 
complications. Why only a subset of CF patients develops severe liver disease 
and others with the same genotype do not is one of the many scientific 
curiosities of this disease. This review focuses on the function of CFTR in 
cholangiocytes with emphasis on ductular bile formation as well as the clinical 
consequences of abnormal CFTR, namely CF-associated liver disease. Data on the 
pathogenesis, prevalence, clinical course, and treatment of CF liver disease 
will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2001-19030
PMID: 11745036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Cancer. 2001 Nov 1;92(9):2267-72. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20011101)92:9<2267::aid-cncr1572>3.0.co;2-q.

Weekly vinorelbine is an effective palliative regimen after failure with 
anthracyclines and taxanes in metastatic breast carcinoma.

Zelek L(1), Barthier S, Riofrio M, Fizazi K, Rixe O, Delord JP, Le Cesne A, 
Spielmann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
laurent-zelek@aero-eu.org

Comment in
    Cancer. 2003 Sep 15;98(6):1325-6; author reply 1326-7.

BACKGROUND: Currently, there is no gold standard for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic breast carcinoma who have experienced failure with 
anthracyclines and taxanes. A biologic rationale suggests that the mechanism of 
taxane resistance could be because of an excess of depolymerized tubulin that 
could enhance sensitivity to vinorelbine. The objective of the study was to 
assess the tolerance and efficiency of weekly vinorelbine in metastatic breast 
carcinoma after failure with taxanes.
METHODS: Patients with measurable disease, a World Health Organization 
performance status of less than 3 and a life expectancy longer than 3 months 
were eligible. Persistent taxane-induced neuropathy higher than Grade 1 was an 
exclusion criterion. The initial planned dose was 30 mg/m(2)/week on an 
outpatient basis without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). 
Neutrophil and platelet counts of 1.0 and 80 g/L, respectively, were required 
before each new injection; otherwise vinorelbine was delayed for 7 days with a 
dose reduction of 5 mg/m(2) at the second episode. The dose also was reduced if 
Grade 3 or 4 toxicity occurred. If the adverse event persisted or if the delay 
exceeded 14 days between 2 injections given at a dose of 20 mg/m(2), vinorelbine 
was definitively discontinued.
RESULTS: Between November 1997 and March 1999, 40 patients with a median age of 
49 (range, 39-69) were enrolled. All of them had previously received 
anthracyclines and taxanes. Because of the delays in neutrophil recovery, the 
median dose intensity did not exceed 22.5 mg/m(2)/week (range, 11.25-30), and 
the initial planned dose of 30 mg/m(2)/week appeared unfeasible without G-CSF. 
The starting dose therefore was 25 mg/m(2)/week after the first 6 patients. 
Neutropenia led to fever in only three patients. Other severe toxicities were 
Grade 2-3 neuropathy (n = 5), Grade 2-3 ileus (n = 7), Grade 3 anemia (n = 4), 
and Grade 3 sepsis (n = 1). Objective responses were observed in 10 of 40 
patients (25%), 7 of whom had visceral metastases and 4 who were refractory to 
taxanes (including 2 patients with liver involvement > 50%). The median time to 
failure was 6 months (range, 4-12) for responding patients. Disease 
stabilization was achieved in 9 patients (23%) for a median duration of 5 months 
(range, 4-6). The median survival duration for the whole population was 6 months 
(range, 2-18+).
CONCLUSIONS: Weekly vinorelbine is an active salvage therapy for metastatic 
breast carcinoma after failure with anthracyclines and taxanes, even in patients 
with taxane-refractory metastatic breast carcinoma. This confirms that 
vinorelbine and taxanes are not cross-resistant.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20011101)92:9<2267::aid-cncr1572>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 11745280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Cancer. 2001 Nov 1;92(9):2341-8. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20011101)92:9<2341::aid-cncr1581>3.0.co;2-8.

The cost-effectiveness of fluorodeoxyglucose 18-F positron emission tomography 
in the N0 neck.

Hollenbeak CS(1), Lowe VJ, Stack BC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Penn State College of Medicine, 500 University Drive, 
Hershey, PA 17033-0850, USA. chollenbeak@psu.edu

BACKGROUND: Although surgery and radiation are effective treatments of regional 
lymphatics for classification N0 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) 
patients, both have morbidities that could be avoided in approximately 70% of 
patients without lymph node disease with better diagnostic information. 18-F 
fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) has shown promise 
in detecting subclinical lymph node disease, but its cost and availability have 
limited its use. Here, we sought to determine whether the use of FDG-PET was 
cost-effective as part of a treatment strategy for classification N0 HNSCC 
patients.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of proceeding from classification of N0 by 
computed tomography to a PET scan was estimated using standard methods of 
economic evaluation. Costs were for a large, Midwestern university medical 
center. Probabilities were computed from a review of the literature. Utilities 
were obtained by a time-tradeoff method, and life expectancy was estimated using 
the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database. Outcomes measures were 
cost per year of life saved and cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: Modified radical neck dissection was associated with the lowest 
morbidity (utility [u] = 0.93), and radical neck dissection plus radiation was 
associated with the highest (u = 0.68). Life expectancy was estimated to be 5.9 
and 11.5 years for patients with and without lymph node disease, respectively. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the PET strategy was $8718 per year 
of life saved, or $2505 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: A diagnostic and treatment strategy that proceeds from 
classification of N0 to a PET scan is cost-effective. Prospective studies that 
evaluate this strategy are important to assure that these simulation results are 
realized in clinical practice.

Copyright 2001 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20011101)92:9<2341::aid-cncr1581>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 11745289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Pathol. 2001 Nov;195(4):422-8. doi: 10.1002/path.971.

Evaluating HER2 amplification and overexpression in breast cancer.

Bartlett JM(1), Going JJ, Mallon EA, Watters AD, Reeves JR, Stanton P, Richmond 
J, Donald B, Ferrier R, Cooke TG.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, G31 2ER, 
UK. jmsb1s@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

The development of Herceptin (Trazumatab) makes testing for HER2 status 
important for choosing optimal therapy in breast cancer. This study addresses 
the precision, accuracy, and reproducibility of HER2 assays. HER2 was assessed 
retrospectively by immunohistochemistry (IHC) with Dako 'Herceptest', by IHC 
with the monoclonal antibody CB11, and by fluorescence in situ hybridization 
(FISH, PathVysion), in a series of 216 formalin-fixed breast carcinomas 
including 191 for which quantitative HER2 data from radioimmunohistochemistry 
(Q-IHC) were available. All tests were scored independently by two observers. 
Positivity rates varied between Herceptest (12.6%), FISH (19.4%), and CB11 IHC 
(28.5%). Kappa values showed that IHC-based tests were more susceptible to 
inter-observer variation (kappa=0.67 and 0.74 for Herceptest and CB11, 
respectively) than FISH (kappa=0.973). Overall test accuracy (see the Materials 
and methods section) for CB11 IHC (83.8%) was lower than Herceptest (87.4%) or 
FISH (93.2%). FISH predicted p185 HER2 overexpression (determined by Q-IHC) 
better (concordance index C.Ind. 0.90) than CB11 IHC (C.Ind.=0.85) or Herceptest 
(C.Ind.=0.81). Of 42 cases with gene amplification by FISH, 67% were positive in 
the Herceptest (2+ or 3+) vs. 83% with CB11. Of 174 cases negative by FISH, 96% 
were negative in the Herceptest and 68% with CB11. In conclusion, FISH is the 
most accurate, reproducible, and precise predictor of HER2 overexpression in 
routine diagnostic laboratories.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.971
PMID: 11745673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Teratology. 2001;64 Suppl 1:S37-41. doi: 10.1002/tera.1097.

Improving estimates of caregiver time cost and family impact associated with 
birth defects.

Tilford JM(1), Robbins JM, Hobbs CA.

Author information:
(1)Arkansas Center for Birth Defects Research and Prevention, Little Rock, 
Arkansas 72212, USA.

BACKGROUND: Birth defects impose substantial costs on both families and society 
because of medical, developmental, and special education needs. Caring for 
children with birth defects also may influence caregiver time and impact the 
family. However, the economic cost of caregiver time and other impacts on the 
family has received far less attention than traditional healthcare costs.
METHODS: This study reviews the literature on measuring caregiver time costs and 
family impact in an economic framework. The economic framework involves 
translating caregiver time or difficulties into appropriate units such as cost 
or quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Despite the potential important contribution of caregiver time costs to 
the total cost estimate of birth defects, few studies estimate caregiver time 
costs related specifically to birth defects. Only two studies provide estimates 
of these costs. Recent work has investigated the impact of chronic illness on 
caregivers in QALY terms, but birth defects have not been studied. Several 
issues need to be addressed in both the estimation of caregiver time costs and 
family impact to improve cost estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Improved estimates of caregiver time costs and impact on the family 
will assist policy makers in allocating resources for the prevention and 
treatment of birth defects. Future research should investigate the economic 
costs of caregiver time and family impact associated with caring for children 
with birth defects.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/tera.1097
PMID: 11745843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Stat Med. 2001 Dec 15;20(23):3589-600. doi: 10.1002/sim.1079.

A competing risk approach to the analysis of trials of alternative intra-uterine 
devices (IUDs) for fertility regulation.

Tai BC(1), Peregoudov A, Machin D.

Author information:
(1)NMRC Clinical Trials and Epidemiology Research Unit, 10 College Road, 
Singapore 169851. taibc@cteru.gov.sg

The methods of survival analysis have had a profound influence on the way that 
studies concerned with the safety and efficacy of intra-uterine devices (IUDs) 
for fertility control have been designed, conducted, analysed and reported. For 
example, the Kaplan-Meier technique has been used to summarize the results of 
controlled clinical trials of alternative devices and the logrank test used to 
make any comparisons. A particular feature of IUD studies is the large number of 
possible causes of failure (reasons for discontinuation of the device). These 
lead to considerations of competing risks, where in this framework, the 
discontinuations are considered as competing causes of contraceptive failure. In 
this context, we compare the net and crude probability estimates of 
discontinuation rates using continuous time and argue for the routine use of the 
latter. We use data from a randomized multi-centre trialon the long-term safety 
and efficacy of two IUDs, TCu220C and TCu380A, for illustration.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1079
PMID: 11746339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Stat Med. 2001 Dec 15;20(23):3601-10. doi: 10.1002/sim.1135.

Competing approaches to analysis of failure times with competing risks.

Farley TM(1), Ali MM, Slaymaker E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Health and Research, World Health Organization, 20 
Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. farleyt@who.int

For the analysis of time to event data in contraceptive studies when individuals 
are subject to competing causes for discontinuation, some authors have recently 
advocated the use of the cumulative incidence rate as a more appropriate measure 
to summarize data than the complement of the Kaplan-Meier estimate of 
discontinuation. The former method estimates the rate of discontinuation in the 
presence of competing causes, while the latter is a hypothetical rate that would 
be observed if discontinuations for the other reasons could not occur. The 
difference between the two methods of analysis is the continuous time equivalent 
of a debate that took place in the contraceptive literature in the 1960s, when 
several authors advocated the use of net (adjusted or single decrement life 
table rates) rates in preference to crude rates (multiple decrement life table 
rates). A small simulation study illustrates the interpretation of the two types 
of estimate - the complement of the Kaplan-Meier estimate corresponds to a 
hypothetical rate where discontinuations for other reasons did not occur, while 
the cumulative incidence gives systematically lower estimates. The Kaplan-Meier 
estimates are more appropriate when estimating the effectiveness of a 
contraceptive method, but the cumulative incidence estimates are more 
appropriate when making programmatic decisions regarding contraceptive methods. 
Other areas of application, such as cancer studies, may prefer to use the 
cumulative incidence estimates, but their use should be determined according to 
the application.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1135
PMID: 11746340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):573-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.646.

Should we aggregate relative or absolute changes in QALYs?

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. 
hemj@hhs.se

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):583-5.
    Health Econ. 2003 Oct;12(10):873-7.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.646
PMID: 11747040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):579-81. doi: 10.1002/hec.647.

The desirability of a condition versus the well being and worth of a person.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, PO Box 4404 Nydalen, Oslo, Norway. 
erik.nord@folkehelsa.no

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):583-5.

The desirability of a condition to people who are not in it themselves is only 
moderately correlated to the experienced well being of people with the condition 
and hardly correlated at all to the worth of those people. A single score for a 
health state, of the kind used in QALY calculations, cannot express all these 
three types of value. The history and current practice of health economics is 
highly problematic in this respect.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.647
PMID: 11747041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):583-5. doi: 10.1002/hec.645.

The 'fair innings argument' deserves a fairer hearing! Comments by Alan Williams 
on Nord and Johannesson.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):573-7.
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):579-81.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.645
PMID: 11747042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):587-99. doi: 10.1002/hec.618.

Discounting for health effects in cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Gravelle H(1), Smith D.

Author information:
(1)National Primary Care Research and Development Centre, Centre for Health 
Economics, University of York, York, UK. hg8@york.ac.uk

When health effects can be valued in monetary terms, as in cost-benefit 
analysis, they should be discounted at the same rate as costs. If health effects 
are measured in quantities (e.g. quality adjusted life years) as in 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and the value of health effects is increasing 
over time, discounting the volume of health effects at a lower rate than costs 
is a valid method of taking account of the increase in the future value of 
health effects. We show that the Keeler-Cretin paradox, often used as an 
argument against discounting health effects at a lower rate than costs, has no 
relevance for the choice of discount rate in CEA. We present individualistic and 
welfare models to argue that the rate of growth of the value of health effects 
is positive. The welfare model suggests that the value of health grows at a rate 
dependent on the rate of growth of the value of the direct effect of health on 
utility, the growth rate of income, the elasticity of the marginal utility of 
income and the extent to which individuals are insured against the income risks 
of ill health.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.618
PMID: 11747043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):673-4. doi: 10.1002/hec.637.

Reply to: Econometric issues in testing the age neutrality of health care 
expenditure.

Zweifel P(1), Felder S, Meier M.

Author information:
(1)Socioeconomic Institute of the University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. 
pzweifel@soi.unizh.ch

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):669-71.

Salas and Raftery allege that in our paper, (1) remaining life expectancy is an 
endogenous explanatory variable of health care expenditure and (2) the parameter 
designed to correct for sample selection bias in fact represents a hidden 
relationship between health care expenditure and age. We argue that claim (1) is 
not supported by the available empirical evidence, while claim (2) seems to 
derive from a too cursory reading of our paper.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.637
PMID: 11747049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Health Econ. 2001 Dec;10(8):731-49. doi: 10.1002/hec.621.

Changing the first line drug for malaria treatment--cost-effectiveness analysis 
with highly uncertain inter-temporal trade-offs.

Goodman CA(1), Coleman PG, Mills AJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
UK. catherine.goodman@lshtm.ac.uk

Access to effective treatment would substantially reduce the burden of malaria 
in sub-Saharan Africa, but resistance to chloroquine, the most commonly used 
first line drug, is now widespread. There has been considerable debate over the 
level of chloroquine resistance at which a new first line drug should be 
adopted. Two issues make this an extremely complex decision: it involves 
trade-offs in costs and health outcomes over time; and many of the parameters 
are uncertain. A modelling approach was identified as appropriate for addressing 
these issues. The costs and effects of changing from chloroquine to 
sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) as the first line drug were modelled over 10 
years, allowing for growth in drug resistance. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was used to allow for the high levels of parameter uncertainty. The 
optimal year of switch was highly dependent on both empirical values, such as 
initial resistance and resistance growth rates, and on subjective values, such 
as the time preferences of policy-makers. It was not possible to provide 
policy-makers with a definitive threshold resistance level at which to switch, 
but the model can be used as an analytical tool to structure the problem, 
explore trade-offs, and identify areas for which data are lacking.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.621
PMID: 11747054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Health Econ. 2001 Dec;10(8):779-87. doi: 10.1002/hec.635.

Representing uncertainty: the role of cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.

Fenwick E(1), Claxton K, Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. ealf100@york.ac.uk

Decision-making in health care is inevitably undertaken in a context of 
uncertainty concerning the effectiveness and costs of health care interventions 
and programmes. One method that has been suggested to represent this uncertainty 
is the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve. This technique, which directly 
addresses the decision-making problem, has advantages over confidence interval 
estimation for incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. However, despite these 
advantages, cost-effectiveness acceptability curves have yet to be widely 
adopted within the field of economic evaluation of health care technologies. In 
this paper we consider the relationship between cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curves and decision-making in health care, suggest the introduction of a new 
concept more relevant to decision-making, that of the cost-effectiveness 
frontier, and clarify the use of these techniques when considering decisions 
involving multiple interventions. We hope that as a result we can encourage the 
greater use of these techniques.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.635
PMID: 11747057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1850-2. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2149.

Pilot study with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin for advanced or unresectable 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Schmidinger M(1), Wenzel C, Locker GJ, Muehlbacher F, Steininger R, Gnant M, 
Crevenna R, Budinsky AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Clinical Oncology, University 
of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

We performed a pilot-study on pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) for advanced 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Seventeen patients received 40 mg/m(2) PLD 
intravenously every 4 weeks. A clinical benefit response was achieved in 50% 
(complete remission 7%, minor remission 7%, stable disease 36%). Toxicities were 
moderate. In view of these encouraging findings, further studies appear 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2149
PMCID: PMC2364023
PMID: 11747325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1865-70. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2168.

A phase II trial of marimastat in advanced pancreatic cancer.

Evans JD(1), Stark A, Johnson CD, Daniel F, Carmichael J, Buckels J, Imrie CW, 
Brown P, Neoptolemos JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

Pancreatic cancer has a poor response to conventional chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy. Inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase activity involved in tumour 
invasion and metastases is a novel biological approach for cancer treatment. 
This multicentre phase II clinical trial assessed marimastat, an oral matrix 
metalloproteinase inhibitor, in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. A 
total of 113 patients received marimastat for 28 days at 100 mg b.d. (n = 9), 25 
mg o.d. (n = 90) or 10 mg b.d. (n = 14). Patients with a response to treatment 
could continue marimastat beyond 28 days. Of 113 patients, 90 (80%) completed 
the 28-day study and 83 (73%) continued treatment. The principal side effect was 
arthralgia in 14 (12%) patients at 28 days and 33 (29%) patients over the whole 
study. There were 31 patients (27%) who required dose modification. Of 76 
patients with evaluable CA19-9 levels, 23 (30%) showed no increase or fall in 
CA19-9. Of 83 patients with radiologically assessable disease, 41 (49%) had 
stable disease. The median survival was 245 days for those with a stable or 
falling CA19-9 level 128 days in those with rising CA19-9. The overall survival 
was 3.8 months. 5.9 months for stage II, 4.7 months for stage III and 3 months 
for stage IV disease. Of 90 patients, 46 (51%) had stabilization or reduction in 
pain, mobility and analgesia scores. Further development and clinical evaluation 
of matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors for the treatment of pancreatic cancer is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2168
PMCID: PMC2364022
PMID: 11747327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1871-7. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2169.

Biochemotherapy of metastatic malignant melanoma. Predictive value of 
tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes.

Håkansson A(1), Gustafsson B, Krysander L, Hjelmqvist B, Rettrup B, Håkansson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Linköping, SE-581 85, Sweden.

The therapeutic efficacy of biochemotherapy in metastatic malignant melanoma 
still carries a low remission rate, but with some durable responses. It would 
therefore be of considerable importance if patients with a high probability of 
responding could be identified using predictive tests. The response to 
interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) correlates with the occurrence of CD4(+) 
lymphocytes identified by fine-needle aspirates from melanoma metastases 
(Håkansson et al, 1996). The present investigation studies a possible 
correlation between tumour-infiltrating CD4(+) lymphocytes in malignant melanoma 
metastases and the therapeutic effect of biochemotherapy. A total of 25 patients 
with systemic and 16 with regional metastatic melanoma were analysed before 
initiation of biochemotherapy (cis-platinum 30 mg/m(2) d.1-3, DTIC 250 mg/m(2) 
d.1-3 i.v. and IFN-alpha 2 b 10 million IU s.c. 3 days a week, q. 28d.). A 
monoclonal antibody, anti-CD4, was used to identify tumour-infiltrating 
lymphocytes in fine-needle aspirates before start of treatment. The presence of 
these lymphocytes was correlated to response, time to progression and overall 
survival. A statistically significant correlation (P = 0.01) was found between 
the occurrence of CD4(+) lymphocytes and tumour regression during 
biochemotherapy in patients with systemic disease. Out of 14 patients with 
moderate to high numbers of infiltrating CD4(+) lymphocytes, 12 achieved tumour 
regression. In contrast, among patients with low numbers of these cells in 
metastatic lesions, 8 out of 11 had progressive disease. We also found a 
significantly longer time to progression (P < 0.003) and overall survival (P < 
0.01) among patients with moderate to high numbers of these cells compared to 
patients with low numbers of these cells before initiation of biochemotherapy. 
Furthermore, in patients with regional disease, we found a significantly longer 
time to progression (P = 0.01) and a trend toward a longer overall survival time 
(P = 0.09). Based on these results and as previously shown with IFN-alpha 
therapy alone, there seems to be a need for CD4(+) lymphocytes infiltrating the 
tumours before the start of biochemotherapy to make the treatment successful. 
Determination of these cells in fine-needle aspirates seems to be a method to 
predict responders to biochemotherapy, thus increasing the cost-benefit of this 
treatment strategy considerably, both in terms of patient adverse reactions and 
health care costs.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2169
PMCID: PMC2364006
PMID: 11747328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1900-13. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2164.

Loss of chromosome 11q21-23.1 and 17p and gain of chromosome 6p are independent 
prognostic indicators in B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Stokke T(1), DeAngelis P, Smedshammer L, Galteland E, Steen HB, Smeland EB, 
Delabie J, Holte H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, 0310 Oslo, Norway.

Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) was employed to study chromosomal 
aberrations in relation to cell proliferation, apoptosis, and patient survival 
in 94 cases of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma diagnosed between 1983 and 1993. 
Eighty cases had aberrations by CGH. Chromosomal regions 1p21-31.1 (10%), 
6cen-q24 (12%), 8p (11%), 9p21-ter (14%), 11q21-23.1 (11%), 13q13-21.1 (12%), 
and 17p (15%) were frequently lost. Gains were found at 3q21-ter (22%), 6p 
(11%), 7p (12%), 8q23-ter (13%), 12cen-q15 (17%), 17q24-ter (13%), and 
18q13.3-21 (20%). A high number of aberrations (> or = 4, 33 cases) was 
associated (P < or = 0.001) with the mantle cell and diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma subtypes, a high fraction of tumour cells in S phase, and short 
survival (RR (relative risk) = 3.7). Loss of 1p21-31.1, 8p, 9p21-ter, 
11q21-23.1, and 13q13-21.1 were associated with mantle cell lymphoma (P < or = 
0.03), while gain of 6p and 12cen-q15 were more frequent in diffuse large B-cell 
and small lymphocytic lymphoma, respectively (P = 0.04). Loss of 8p and 17p, and 
gain of 3q21-ter, 6p, 7p, and 8q23-ter were associated with a high S phase 
fraction (P < or = 0.03), but none of the aberrations were associated with 
tumour apoptotic fraction (P > or = 0.13). The most important prognostic CGH 
parameters (P < 0.001) were losses of 11q21-23.1 (RR = 3.8) and 17p (RR = 4.4), 
and gain of 6p (RR = 4.2). The latter parameters and IPI were the only ones with 
independent prognostic value (RR = 10, 5.0, 6.7, and 3.7, respectively; P < 
0.001) when assessed together with lymphoma sub-type, primary versus relapse 
cases, treatment, B symptoms, S phase fraction, and presence of BCL1 and BCL2 
translocations. A combined CGH/IPI binary parameter had high prognostic value 
for patients receiving different treatments, with various lymphoma sub-types, 
and for primary as well as relapse cases.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2164
PMCID: PMC2364025
PMID: 11747333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1922-7. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2192.

RCAS1 as a tumour progression marker: an independent negative prognostic factor 
in gallbladder cancer.

Oshikiri T(1), Hida Y, Miyamoto M, Hashida H, Katoh K, Suzuoki M, Nakakubo Y, 
Hiraoka K, Shinohara T, Itoh T, Kondo S, Katoh H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Division of Cancer Medicine, Hokkaido 
University Graduate School of Medicine, North 15, West 7, Kita-ku, Sapporo, 
060-8638, Japan.

Receptor-binding cancer antigen expressed on SiSo cells (RCAS1) induces 
apoptosis in immune cells bearing the RCAS1 receptor. We sought to determine 
RCAS1 involvement in the origin and progression of gallbladder cancer, and also 
implications of RCAS1 for patient survival. RCAS1 expression was examined 
immunohistochemically in 110 surgically resected gallbladder specimens. The 
gallbladders represented 20 cases of cholecystitis with no associated 
pancreaticobiliary maljunction; 23 cases of cholecystitis with 
pancreaticobiliary maljunction; 14 cases of adenomyomatosis; 7 adenomas; and 46 
cancers. High expression of RCAS1 (immunoreactivity in over 25% of cells) was 
observed in 32 of the 46 cancers (70%), but not in other diseases, including 
pre-cancerous conditions. RCAS1 immunoreactivity was associated with depth of 
tumour invasion (P = 0.0180), lymph node metastasis (P = 0.0033), lymphatic 
involvement (P = 0.0104), venous involvement (P = 0.0224), perineural 
involvement (P = 0.0351) and stage by the tumour, nodes and metastases (TNM) 
classification (P = 0.0026). Thus, RCAS1 expression may be a relatively late 
event in gallbladder carcinogenesis, possibly promoting tumour progression. Cox 
regression multivariate analysis demonstrated RCAS1 positivity to be an 
independent negative predictor for survival (P = 0.0337; risk ratio, 12.690; 95% 
confidence interval, 1.216-132.423). High expression of RCAS1 significantly 
correlated with tumour progression and predicted poor outcome in gallbladder 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2192
PMCID: PMC2364016
PMID: 11747335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Br J Cancer. 2001 Dec 14;85(12):1958-63. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2178.

E-cadherin as a prognostic indicator in primary breast cancer.

Parker C(1), Rampaul RS, Pinder SE, Bell JA, Wencyk PM, Blamey RW, Nicholson RI, 
Robertson JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, University Of Nottingham, City Hospital, 
Hucknall Road, Nottingham NHS Trust.

Epithelial cadherin (E-CD) is a member of the cadherin family of cell adhesion 
molecules and has been implicated as an invasion suppressor molecule in vitro 
and in vivo. We analysed 174 breast tumours from the Nottingham/Tenovus Breast 
Cancer Series immunohistochemically for E-CD expression using the mouse 
monoclonal antibody HECD-1 (Zymed Laboratories Inc.). In normal epithelial cells 
E-CD was strongly expressed at cell-cell boundaries. 66% of the breast cancers 
examined had reduced intensity of E-CD expression with 74% having significant 
reductions in the proportion of E-CD-positive tumour cells. Using a combined 
intensity/proportion score, significant associations were found between E-CD 
expression and tumour type (P </= 0.001). ER status (P = 0.026) and histological 
grade (P = 0.031). Expression of E-CD was not found to be related to recurrence, 
distant metastases, lymph node stage, vascular invasion, primary tumour size, 
prognostic group or survival. Thus E-CD expression in human breast cancer 
appears to have minimal prognostic value, but may have a role as a phenotypic 
marker.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2001.2178
PMCID: PMC2364028
PMID: 11747340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Telemed Telecare. 2001;7 Suppl 2:29-31. doi: 10.1258/1357633011937056.

An analysis of why telehealth systems in Australia have not always succeeded.

Yellowlees P(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Online Health, University of Queensland, Australia. 
p.yellowlees@mailbox.uq.edu.au

Telehealth programmes are rather similar to humans in the way that they are 
planned, develop, grow and ultimately die or disappear. To achieve good life 
expectancy for a telehealth programme there appear to be three major needs: 
nurturing, which includes the provision of money, ideas, education, training and 
innovation; experience, which involves an integrated management process, the 
achievement of long and wide patterns of usage, the development of updated 
policies and procedures and the involvement of multiple disciplines; success, 
which involves evidence of outcomes, evaluation and research, and, most 
important, the sharing of information through scientific and popular press 
publications, and conferences and collaborations with internal and external 
groups. The future of telehealth in Australia is at a watershed. There are now a 
substantial number of programmes, and there has been a large amount of financial 
and human investment in telehealth around the nation. There is, however, no 
forum for national leadership, no national association and little support at 
federal government level.

DOI: 10.1258/1357633011937056
PMID: 11747652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Emerg Infect Dis. 2001 Sep-Oct;7(5):797-806. doi: 10.3201/eid0705.010505.

Cost-effectiveness of a potential vaccine for Coccidioides immitis.

Barnato AE(1), Sanders GD, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburg, Division of General Internal Medicine, Pennsylvania 
15213, USA. barnato@post.harvard.edu

Coccidioidomycosis, a systemic fungal infection, affects Americans living in the 
Southwest. We evaluated the cost- effectiveness of a potential vaccine against 
Coccidioides immitis. Using a decision model we developed, we estimate that 
among children, vaccination would saved 1.9 quality-adjusted life days (QALD) 
and $33 per person. Among adults, screening followed by vaccination would save 
0.5 QALD per person and cost $62,000 per quality adjusted life year gained over 
no vaccination. If the birth cohort in highly endemic counties of California and 
Arizona were immunized in 2001, 11 deaths would be averted and $3 million would 
be saved (in net present value) over the lifetime of these infants. Vaccination 
of adults to prevent disseminated coccidioidomycosis would provide a modest 
health benefit similar in magnitude to other vaccines but would increase net 
expenditures. Vaccination of children in highly endemic regions would provide a 
larger health benefit and would reduce total health care expenditures.

DOI: 10.3201/eid0705.010505
PMCID: PMC2631863
PMID: 11747691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Chem Rev. 1999 May 12;99(5):1243-64. doi: 10.1021/cr980374z.

The exterior frontier orbital extension model.

Tomoda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Komaba, Meguro-Ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

DOI: 10.1021/cr980374z
PMID: 11749446


60. J Clin Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;54 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S44-52. doi: 
10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00446-2.

Neuropsychiatric aspects of HIV infection among older adults.

Hinkin CH(1), Castellon SA, Atkinson JH, Goodkin K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, UCLA School of Medicine, 
760 Westwood Plaza, Room C8-747, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA. chinkin@ucla.edu

Treatment advances such as the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART) have translated into greater life expectancy for HIV-infected 
individuals, which will ultimately result in a "graying" of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic. In addition, older individuals are engaging in a higher rate of high 
risk behaviors than had been previously expected. As such, study of older 
HIV-infected patients, including study of the psychiatric and neurocognitive 
aspects of the disease, appears highly indicated. Epidemiological studies have 
demonstrated that HIV infection is associated with higher rates of several 
psychological/psychiatric disorders when compared to general population base 
rates. There is also a rich literature that has documented the adverse 
neurocognitive effects of HIV infection, ranging from subtle cognitive 
complaints to frank dementia, among younger adults. Although it has been 
hypothesized that older age may potentiate the deleterious effects of HIV 
infection, little is actually known, however, regarding the incidence, 
prevalence, course, and clinical features of HIV-associated psychiatric and 
cognitive dysfunction among older adults. This article provides an overview of 
the epidemiology and clinical manifestations of HIV-associated cognitive and 
psychiatric disorder across the age spectrum, with particular focus on what is 
known regarding the interaction of advancing age and HIV infection. Future 
directions for research are suggested, including basic epidemiologic study of 
incidence and prevalence rates of neurodisease among older HIV-infected adults 
as well as investigations designed to determine whether the nature, severity, 
course, or treatment of such disorders differs among older versus younger 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00446-2
PMCID: PMC2864032
PMID: 11750209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. BMJ. 2001 Dec 22-29;323(7327):1441-2. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7327.1441.

Death in Hollywood.

Smith GD.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2001 Dec 22-29;323(7327):1491-6.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.323.7327.1441
PMCID: PMC1121899
PMID: 11751346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. BMJ. 2001 Dec 22-29;323(7327):1491-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7327.1491.

Longevity of screenwriters who win an academy award: longitudinal study.

Redelmeier DA(1), Singh SM.

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook and Women's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada M4N 3M5. dar@ices.on.ca

Comment in
    BMJ. 2001 Dec 22-29;323(7327):1441-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the link between high success and longevity 
extends to academy award winning screenwriters.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: All screenwriters ever nominated for an academy award.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and all cause mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 850 writers were nominated; the median duration of follow up 
from birth was 68 years; and 428 writers died. On average, winners were more 
successful than nominees, as indicated by a 14% longer career (27.7 v 24.2, 
P=0.004), 34% more total films (23.2 v 17.3, P<0.001), 58% more four star films 
(4.8 v 3.1, P<0.001), and 62% more nominations (2.1 v 1.3, P<0.001). However, 
life expectancy was 3.6 years shorter for winners than for nominees (74.1 v 77.7 
years, P=0.004), equivalent to a 37% relative increase in death rates (95% 
confidence interval 10 to 70). After adjustment for year of birth, sex, and 
other factors, a 35% relative increase in death rates was found (7% to 70%). 
Additional wins were associated with a 22% relative increase in death rates (3% 
to 44%). Additional nominations and additional other films in a career otherwise 
caused no significant increase in death rates.
CONCLUSION: The link between occupational achievement and longevity is reversed 
in screenwriters who win academy awards. Doubt is cast on simple biological 
theories for the survival gradients found for other members of society.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.323.7327.1491
PMCID: PMC61055
PMID: 11751368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Eur Urol. 2001 Nov;40(5):488-94. doi: 10.1159/000049824.

Active monitoring (deferred treatment or watchful waiting) in the treatment of 
prostate cancer. A review.

Schmid HP(1), Adolfsson J, Aus G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Westfälische Wilhelms University, Münster, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the concept of active monitoring only in the management 
of patients with prostate cancer.
METHODS: Literature review.
RESULTS: Active monitoring may be recommended in patients with stage T1a, well- 
and moderately-differentiated disease. Patients with a life expectancy exceeding 
10 years are recommended re-evaluation with PSA, TRUS and biopsies of the 
residual prostate. This treatment is also indicated in patients with stage 
T1b-T2b, well- and moderately-differentiated tumours and a life expectancy of 
less than 10 years. Active monitoring is optional in patients with stage 
T1b-T2b, Gleason 2-4 prostate cancer and a life expectancy of 10-15 years. It is 
also optional in asymptomatic patients with locally advanced disease, stage 
T3-T4 which are well- and moderately-differentiated and have a short life 
expectancy. A very rare asymptomatic patient with M1 disease and the possibility 
of close follow-up may be offered active monitoring.
CONCLUSIONS: Active monitoring is still a viable option for selected patients 
diagnosed with prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1159/000049824
PMID: 11752854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Oncogene. 2001 Nov 15;20(52):7635-44. doi: 10.1038/sj.onc.1204956.

p53 enhances the fidelity of DNA synthesis by human immunodeficiency virus type 
1 reverse transcriptase.

Bakhanashvili M(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer 52621, 
Israel. bakhanus@yahoo.com

The tumor suppressor protein p53 plays a critical role in the maintenance of 
genetic integrity. p53 possesses 3'-->5' exonuclease activity, however, the 
significance of this function in DNA replication process remains elusive. It was 
suggested that 3'-->5' exonuclease activity of p53 may provide a proofreading 
function for DNA polymerases. In order to better understand the significance of 
this activity, the purified wild-type recombinant p53 was further evaluated for 
substrate specificity and for contribution to the accuracy of DNA synthesis. 
p53-associated 3'-->5' exonuclease displays 3' terminal nucleotide excision from 
RNA/DNA template-primer using ribosomal RNA as a template. The data demonstrate 
that p53 is highly efficient in removing a terminal mispair. Analysis of mispair 
excision opposite the template adenine residue shows that p53 catalyzes 3' 
terminal mismatch excision with a specificity of A : G>A : A>A : C. Hence, the 
observed specificity of mismatch excision indicates that p53 exonucleolytic 
proofreading preferentially repairs transversion mutations. The influence of the 
p53 on the accuracy of DNA synthesis was determined with exonuclease-deficient 
human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT), a key enzyme 
in the life cycle of the virus, that contributes significantly to the low 
accuracy of proviral DNA synthesis. Using an in vitro biochemical assay with 
recombinant purified HIV-1 RT, p53 and defined RNA/DNA or DNA/DNA 
template-primers, two basic features related to fidelity of DNA synthesis were 
studied: the misinsertion and mispair extension. The misincorporation of 
non-complementary deoxynucleotides into nascent DNA and subsequent mispair 
extension by HIV-1 RT were substantially decreased in the presence of p53 with 
both RNA/DNA and DNA/DNA template-primers. In addition, the productive 
interaction between polymerization (by HIV-1 RT) and exonuclease (by p53) 
activities was observed; p53 preferentially hydrolyzes mispaired 3'-termini, 
permitting subsequent extension of the correctly paired 3'-terminus by HIV-1 RT. 
Taken together the data demonstrate that preferential excision of mismatched 
nucleotides by 3'-->5' exonuclease activity of wild-type p53 enhances the 
fidelity of DNA synthesis by HIV-1 RT in vitro, thus providing a biochemical 
mechanism to reduce mutations caused by incorporation of mismatched nucleotides. 
The fact that p53 is reactive with both RNA/DNA and DNA/DNA template-primers 
raises an interesting possibility of the existence of functional cooperation 
between p53 and HIV-1 RT in cytoplasm during the reverse transcription process, 
which may be important for maintaining HIV genomic integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1204956
PMID: 11753641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Jan 1;442(1):35-47. doi: 10.1002/cne.1420.

Localization and characterization of NPY/PYY receptors in rat frontoparietal 
cortex during development.

Leroux P(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory DIFEMA, UPRES EA 2122, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
University of Rouen, 22 Boulevard Gambetta, 76183 Rouen, France. 
philippe.leroux@univ-rouen.fr

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is present in most cerebrocortical areas during fetal and 
postnatal development. In the rat frontal cortex, a dense radial fiber network 
containing NPY immunoreactivity is observed transiently as early as embryonic 
day 17 (E17) and disappears at the end of the first postnatal week. We have 
investigated the distribution of NPY receptors in the frontoparietal cortex at 
13 stages of development, from E15 fetuses to adults, by in vitro 
autoradiography, using (125)I-pPYY as a radioligand. Quantitative receptor 
density was measured through all cortical layers at each developmental stage. 
Pharmacological identification of (125)I-pPPY binding sites was made by 
competition experiments using pNPY or [Leu(31),Pro(34)]pNPY and pNPY(13-36), as 
selective competitors for Y1 and Y2 receptors, respectively. NPY receptors were 
first detected in the cerebral cortex at low densities at E19 in a thin layer of 
tissue corresponding to the inner half of the intermediate zone (IZ) and the 
upper ventricular zone (VZ). The neuroepithelium did not contain binding sites. 
High densities of sites were observed by E21 onward to P10 in the deep cortical 
layers corresponding to the IZ and layers V-VI. A decreasing gradient of 
receptor density was observed from layer VI to the marginal zone (layer I). The 
distribution of NPY receptors does not match with the perikarya of transient 
NPY-immunoreactive neurons located in the cortical plate but does coincide with 
their axonal extension. The receptor density decreased abruptly between P10 and 
P12 in deep layers, whereas a moderate expression of binding sites is detected 
from P10 to P12 in layers I-III. By P14, the binding level was the lowest 
observed in the postnatal period. From P21 onward, receptors were observed in 
superficial layers I-III, and their density rose by two- to threefold up to 
adulthood. Competition studies indicated that the NPY receptors located in the 
deep cortical layers of the E21 or P1 rat cortex exhibit Y2 receptor type 
characteristics. The binding sites detected in the superficial layers from P10 
to P12 rats also show Y2 receptors characteristics, unlike the NPY receptors in 
layers II-III of the adult, which behave like Y1 receptors. These data show that 
different NPY receptor types are successively expressed in specific layers 
during late gestation and early postnatal life in the rat frontoparietal cortex.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1420
PMID: 11754365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Am J Med. 2001 Dec 1;111(8):614-21. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(01)00951-2.

Cost effectiveness of screening for hepatitis C virus in asymptomatic, 
average-risk adults.

Singer ME(1), Younossi ZM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine, Case 
