Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2001 Dec 1;111(8):667-8.

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of screening for hepatitis C in 
asymptomatic, average-risk adults.
METHODS: We used a Markov decision analysis model to estimate the lifetime cost 
effectiveness of three screening strategies: (1) initial screening for hepatitis 
C antibody by third-generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), 
followed by confirmatory testing for hepatitis C virus ribonucleic acid (RNA) 
using polymerase chain reaction (PCR); (2) initial screening for hepatitis C 
virus RNA by PCR only; and (3) the current practice of not screening. The 
patient population comprised a hypothetical cohort of average-risk adults 
presenting to their regular primary health care provider for routine physical 
examination. The main outcome measure was cost per additional quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The no screening strategy was the dominant strategy in the baseline 
analysis. The model was most sensitive to the reduction in quality of life 
related to patient awareness of hepatitis C infection. Screening with ELISA and 
PCR was preferred when this value was <0.01 and was cost effective if more than 
half of the patients who tested positive for hepatitis C actually initiated 
treatment, or if the annual rate of progression to cirrhosis was greater than 
2.5%. Screening with PCR only was never cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis does not support the widespread screening for 
hepatitis C among asymptomatic, average-risk adults.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(01)00951-2
PMID: 11755504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Obstet Gynecol. 2001 Dec;98(6):996-1003. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(01)01624-6.

Cost-effectiveness of raloxifene and hormone replacement therapy in 
postmenopausal women: impact of breast cancer risk.

Armstrong K(1), Chen TM, Albert D, Randall TC, Schwartz JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6021, USA. karmstro@mail.med.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the life expectancy and cost-effectiveness of hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) and raloxifene therapy in healthy 50-year-old 
postmenopausal women.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model, 
discounting the value of future costs and benefits to account for their time of 
occurrence.
RESULTS: Both HRT and raloxifene therapy increase life expectancy and are 
cost-effective relative to no therapy for 50-year-old postmenopausal women. For 
women at average breast cancer and coronary heart disease risk, lifetime HRT 
increases quality-adjusted life expectancy more (1.75 versus 1.32 
quality-adjusted life years) and costs less ($3802 versus $12,968) than lifetime 
raloxifene therapy. However, raloxifene is more cost-effective than HRT for 
women at average coronary risk who have a lifetime breast cancer risk of 15% or 
higher or who receive 10 years or less of postmenopausal therapy. Raloxifene is 
also the more cost-effective alternative if HRT reduces coronary heart disease 
risk by less than 20%.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming the benefit of HRT in coronary heart disease prevention 
from observational studies, long-term HRT is the most cost-effective alternative 
for women at average breast cancer and coronary heart disease risk seeking to 
extend their quality-adjusted life expectancy after menopause. However, 
raloxifene is the more cost-effective alternative for women at average coronary 
risk with one or more major breast cancer risk factors (first-degree relative, 
prior breast biopsy, atypical hyperplasia or BRCA1/2 mutation). These results 
can help inform decisions about postmenopausal therapy until the results of 
large scale randomized trials of these therapies become available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(01)01624-6
PMID: 11755544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Physiol Paris. 2002 Jan-Mar;96(1-2):105-13. doi: 
10.1016/s0928-4257(01)00086-9.

Botulinum neurotoxins: from paralysis to recovery of functional neuromuscular 
transmission.

Meunier FA(1), Schiavo G, MolgÃ³ J.

Author information:
(1)Molecular NeuroPathobiology Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, 44 
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK. f.meunier@icrf.icnet.uk

The neuromuscular junction is one of the most accessible mammalian synapses 
which offers a useful model to study long-term synaptic modifications occurring 
throughout life. It is also the natural target of botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) 
causing a selective blockade of the regulated exocytosis of acetylcholine 
thereby triggering a profound albeit transitory muscular paralysis. The scope of 
this review is to describe the principal steps implicated in botulinum toxin 
intoxication from the early events leading to a paralysis to the cellular 
response implementing an impressive synaptic remodelling culminating in the 
functional recovery of neuromuscular transmission. BoNT/A treatment promotes 
extensive sprouting emanating from intoxicated motor nerve terminals and the 
distal portion of motor axons. The current view is that sprouts have the ability 
to form functional synapses as they display a number of key proteins required 
for exocytosis: SNAP-25, VAMP/synaptobrevin, syntaxin-I, synaptotagmin-II, 
synaptophysin, and voltage-activated Na+, Ca2+ and Ca2+-activated K+ channels. 
Exo-endocytosis was demonstrated (using the styryl dye FM1-43) to occur only in 
the sprouts in vivo, at the time of functional recovery emphasising the direct 
role of nerve terminal outgrowth in implementing the restoration of functional 
neurotransmitter release (at a time when nerve stimulation again elicited muscle 
contraction). Interestingly, sprouts are only transitory since a second distinct 
phase of the rehabilitation process occurs with a return of synaptic activity to 
the original nerve terminals. This is accompanied by the elimination of the 
dispensable sprouts. The growth or elimination of these nerve processes appears 
to be strongly correlated with the level of synaptic activity at the parent 
terminal. The BoNT/A-induced extension and later removal of "functional" sprouts 
indicate their fundamental importance in the rehabilitation of paralysed 
endplates, a finding with ramifications for the vital process of nerve 
regeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0928-4257(01)00086-9
PMID: 11755789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Blood. 2002 Jan 1;99(1):36-43. doi: 10.1182/blood.v99.1.36.

The hypercoagulable state in thalassemia.

Eldor A(1), Rachmilewitz EA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of 
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.

Thalassemia is a congenital hemolytic disorder caused by a partial or complete 
deficiency of alpha- or beta-globin chain synthesis. Homozygous carriers of 
beta-globin gene defects suffer from severe anemia and other serious 
complications from early childhood. The disease is treated by chronic blood 
transfusion. However, this can cause severe iron overload resulting in 
progressive organ failure. Some forms of alpha thalassemia are also associated 
with a similar clinical picture. Despite the difficulties associated with 
treatment, standards of care for thalassemic patients have improved in recent 
years, resulting in almost doubling of the average life expectancy. As a 
consequence, additional previously undescribed, complications are now being 
recognized. In particular, profound hemostatic changes have been observed in 
patients with beta-thalassemia major (beta-TM) and beta-thalassemia intermedia 
(beta-TI) and also in patients with alpha thalassemia (hemoglobin H disease). 
The presence of a higher than normal incidence of thromboembolic events, mainly 
in beta-TI, and the existence of prothrombotic hemostatic anomalies in the 
majority of the patients, even from a very young age, have led to the 
recognition of the existence of a chronic hypercoagulable state in thalassemic 
patients. Despite the appearance of numerous publications on the frequent 
occurrence of thromboembolic complications in thalassemia, this complication has 
not been emphasized or comprehensively reviewed. This review summarizes the 
current literature and discusses possible mechanisms of the lifelong 
hypercoagulable state that exists in thalassemia.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.v99.1.36
PMID: 11756150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Crop Sci. 2002 Jan;42(1):172-177. doi: 10.2135/cropsci2002.1720.

Radiation Use Efficiency and Biomass Production in Soybean at Different Plant 
Population Densities.

Purcell LC(1), Ball RA, Reaper JD 3rd, Vories ED.

Author information:
(1)Dep. of Crop, Soil, and Environmental Sciences, Univ. of Arkansas, 1366 W. 
Altheimer Drive, Fayetteville, AR 72704. Univ. of Saskatchewan, Dep. of Plant 
Sciences, 51 Campus Drive, Saskatoon, SK 5A8 S7N, Canada. Dep. of Biological and 
Agricultural Engineering, Univ. of Arkansas, Northeast Research and Extension 
Center, P.O. Box 48, Keiser, AR 72351.

As population density (POP) increases in a soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr.] 
crop, maximum light interception (LI) occurs earlier in the season. Earlier 
canopy closure would be expected to increase the cumulative radiation 
intercepted. We hypothesized that if radiation use efficiency (RUE) was constant 
across a range of population densities in a nonstressful environment, then 
increasing POP would increase biomass at the end of the season. To test this 
hypothesis, we evaluated the response of total biomass produced during the 
season to cumulative intercepted photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) in 
field experiments at Fayetteville, AR, with soybean cultivars selected from 
Maturity Groups (MGs) 00 to IV. Additionally, from field experiments at Keiser, 
AR, with MG IV soybean cultivars, we assessed the response of RUE to POP. At 
both locations with MG IV cultivars, a late sowing date shortened the life cycle 
of the crop by 13 to 25 d compared with an early sowing date, resulting in less 
PAR accumulated. Similarly, early maturing cultivars had less time for PAR and 
biomass accumulation relative to later maturing cultivars. At Keiser, in three 
of the four environments, RUE decreased linearly by 26 to 30% as the POP 
increased from 7 to 135 plants m(-2). Final biomass at the end of the season, as 
a function of PAR accumulated from emergence to the full-seed-size stage of 
development, responded linearly to intercepted PAR up to approximately 400 MJ 
m(-2). Above 400 MJ m(-2), the response was curvilinear with little increases in 
biomass >700 MJ m(-2). Our data clearly indicate that RUE decreased as POP 
increased and that maximum biomass production in these environments was not 
limited by intercepted PAR.

DOI: 10.2135/cropsci2002.1720
PMID: 11756269


71. N Engl J Med. 2001 Dec 27;345(26):1877-82. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa011610.

Serologic markers of Epstein-Barr virus infection and nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
in Taiwanese men.

Chien YC(1), Chen JY, Liu MY, Yang HI, Hsu MM, Chen CJ, Yang CS.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: It is probable but unproven that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has a role 
in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. We determined whether antibodies against EBV are 
present before the development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
METHODS: A total of 9699 men were enrolled between 1984 and 1986. Blood samples 
were examined for IgA antibodies against EBV capsid antigen and neutralizing 
antibodies against EBV-specific DNase. During 131,981 person-years of follow-up, 
22 pathologically confirmed new cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma that were 
diagnosed more than one year after recruitment were ascertained through linkage 
with the National Cancer Registry of Taiwan.
RESULTS: The cumulative risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma per 100,000 
person-years was 11.2 for subjects who tested positive for neither serologic 
marker, 45.0 for those who had one marker, and 371.0 for those who had both 
markers. After adjustment for age and the presence or absence of a family 
history of nasopharyngeal carcinoma, the relative risk of nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma was 32.8 for subjects with both markers (95 percent confidence 
interval, 7.3 to 147.2; P<0.001) and 4.0 for subjects with one marker (95 
percent confidence interval, 1.6 to 10.2; P=0.003), as compared with subjects 
with neither marker. The longer the duration of follow-up, the greater the 
difference in the cumulative incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma between 
seropositive and seronegative subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: IgA antibodies against EBV capsid antigen and neutralizing 
antibodies against EBV DNase are predictive of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa011610
PMID: 11756578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Radiology. 2002 Jan;222(1):25-36. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2221001743.

Intermittent claudication: cost-effectiveness of revascularization versus 
exercise therapy.

de Vries SO(1), Visser K, de Vries JA, Wong JB, Donaldson MC, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To compare the costs, effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness of 
alternative treatment strategies for intermittent claudication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: By combining data from the literature and original 
patient data, a Markov decision model was developed to evaluate the societal 
cost-effectiveness. Patients presented with previously untreated intermittent 
claudication, and treatment options were exercise, percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (with stent placement, if necessary), and/or bypass surgery. 
Treatment strategies were defined as the initial therapy in combination with 
secondary treatment options should the initial therapy fail. The main outcome 
measures were quality-adjusted life days, expected lifetime costs (in 1995 U.S. 
dollars), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Compared with an exercise program, revascularization (either 
angioplasty or bypass surgery) improved effectiveness by 33-61 quality-adjusted 
life days among patients with no history of coronary artery disease. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $38,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained when angioplasty was performed whenever feasible, as compared with 
exercise alone, and $311,000 with additional bypass surgery. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were sensitive to age, history of coronary artery 
disease, estimated health values for no or mild claudication versus severe 
claudication, and revascularization costs.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that, on average, the expected gain in 
effectiveness achieved with bypass surgery for intermittent claudication is 
small compared with the costs. Angioplasty performed whenever feasible was more 
effective than was exercise alone, and the cost-effectiveness ratio was within 
the generally accepted range.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2221001743
PMID: 11756701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Radiology. 2002 Jan;222(1):37-43. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2221010268.

Treatment of complex arteriosclerotic lesions with nitinol stents in the 
superficial femoral and popliteal arteries: a midterm follow-up.

Lugmayr HF(1), Holzer H, Kastner M, Riedelsberger H, Auterith A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, General Hospital, Grieskirchnerstrasse 42, A-4600 
Wels, Austria. lugmayr.hf@aon.at

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of nitinol stents in patients with short, 
complex lesions in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries and to assess 
midterm results.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Self-expandable nitinol stents were implanted in 54 
extremities in 44 patients to treat complex stenoses (n = 32) and occlusions (n 
= 22) in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries. Follow-up was performed 
for 5-51 months to evaluate early thrombosis and midterm patency rates. Midterm 
patency rates were compared between the following: stenoses and occlusions, 
proximal and distal locations, good and poor runoff, and diabetic patients and 
nondiabetic patients. All patients underwent clinical investigation and color 
Doppler sonography after 1 month and 6 months and at 6-month intervals 
thereafter. If restenosis or stent thrombosis was suspected, intraarterial 
digital subtraction angiography of the superficial and popliteal arteries was 
performed.
RESULTS: Percutaneous stent implantation was successful in all patients. The 
mean duration of follow-up was 27 months (range, 5-51 months). No thrombotic 
occlusion occurred within the first 4 weeks after stent implantation. The 
primary 3-year patency rate was 76%, and the secondary patency rate was 87%. 
Three-year primary patency rates were 65% for diabetic patients and 82% for 
nondiabetic patients.
CONCLUSION: In patients with short, complex stenoses and occlusions, 
implantation of nitinol stents may have a positive impact on midterm results.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2221010268
PMID: 11756702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Ann Plast Surg. 2001 Dec;47(6):678. doi: 10.1097/00000637-200112000-00018.

Life at a discount.

Morain WD.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-200112000-00018
PMID: 11756842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Nov 17;145(46):2234-41.

[Lump in the neck: 4 patients with a medullary thyroid carcinoma].

[Article in Dutch]

Jansen M(1), Jansen-Schillhorn van Veen JM, Vroom TM, van Vroonhoven TJ, Lips 
CJ.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Kinderendocrinologie, Universitair Medisch Centrum, Postbus 85.500, 3508 
GA Utrecht.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2001 Nov 17;145(46):2217-21.

In a 25-year-old man, medullary thyroid carcinoma (probably a solitary sporadic 
form) was diagnosed following investigation of a small lump in the patient's 
neck. This was removed and followed up with further treatment. In a 27-year-old 
man, episodes of headache, palpitations and excessive perspiration (due to a 
pheochromocytoma) and a positive family history of thyroid problems led to 
further investigations and the subsequent diagnosis of multiple endocrine 
neoplasia (MEN) type 2A. The patient died at 48 years of age as the result of 
liver metastases. A total thyroidectomy had been carried out on a 19-year-old 
man with familial medullary thyroid carcinoma. The calcitonin levels remained 
elevated, but no tumour residues could be found. A 16-year-old girl with MEN 
type 2B had also previously undergone surgery. Her main complaint consisted of 
persistent constipation. Thyroid carcinomas usually present as a nodule in the 
neck. In 25% of cases, medullary thyroid carcinoma is part of the MEN2 syndrome. 
The clinical approach for medullary thyroid carcinoma is based on pathological 
findings following fine needle aspiration biopsy. The results of DNA tests 
determine the course of treatment and the need for family testing. In families 
with a hereditary form, there is a clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Early 
diagnosis and treatment can improve life expectancy.

PMID: 11757248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Ann Hematol. 2001;80 Suppl 3:B35-7. doi: 10.1007/pl00022785.

Potential of chromosomal and matrix-based comparative genomic hybridization for 
molecular diagnostics in lymphomas.

Wessendorf S(1), Lichter P, SchwÃ¤nen C, Fritz B, Baudis M, Walenta K, Kloess M, 
DÃ¶hner H, Bentz M.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum Heidelberg, Abt. Organisation komplexer 
Genome.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00022785
PMID: 11757703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Ann Hematol. 2001;80 Suppl 3:B66-72. doi: 10.1007/pl00022794.

Management of localized (stage I and II) clinically aggressive lymphomas.

Tsang RW(1), Gospodarowicz MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Toronto, Princess Margaret 
Hospital, University Health Network, Canada. richard.tsang@rmp.uhn.on.ca

The treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas is chiefly dependent on the histologic 
type and the anatomic extent of the disease, reflected by the stage. In the past 
30 years, the treatment of localized large cell lymphomas has evolved from the 
use of radiotherapy (RT) alone to the routine use of combined modality therapy 
(CMT). Randomized controlled trials have shown superiority of the CMT approach 
as compared to RT alone, or chemotherapy alone. The data will be critically 
appraised in this review. Currently, approximately two-thirds of patients with 
stage I and II clinically-aggressive lymphomas will be cured with initial 
planned combined modality therapy. The clinical prognostic factors predicting 
refractory or relapse disease are now clearly recognized, and they are: older 
age, stage II disease, high lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), poor performance 
status, and bulky disease. Patients with poor-risk features are candidates for 
clinical trials to examine the potential benefits of initial treatment 
intensification programs. Elderly patients over the age of 60 years account for 
about half of the patients with lymphoma, and they may tolerate therapy less 
well. They are a special subgroup where prospective studies are required to 
determine the optimal management.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00022794
PMID: 11757712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Ann Hematol. 2001;80 Suppl 3:B73-6. doi: 10.1007/pl00022795.

Favorable outcome for children and adolescents with T-cell lymphoblastic 
lymphoma with an intensive ALL-type therapy without local radiotherapy.

Grenzebach J(1), Schrappe M, Ludwig WD, Parwaresch R, Zimmermann M, Gadner H, 
Riehm H, Reiter A; BFM-Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Justus-Liebig-University, 
Giessen, Germany.

In study NHL-BFM 90 we investigated the efficacy of an ALL-type treatment 
without local radiotherapy for childhood T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL). 
In particular, the prognostic impact of the speed of tumor regression was 
evaluated. From April 1990 to March 1995, 105 evaluable patients, 1.1-16.4 years 
of age, with T-LBL were enrolled into study NHL-BFM 90. Patients with stage I 
and II received an 8-drug induction followed by a consolidation including 
high-dose-methotrexate (MTX) and maintenance therapy up to a total therapy 
duration of 24 months. Patients with stage III and IV received an additional 
reinduction and cranial radiotherapy (CRT) (12 Gy for prophylaxis) between 
consolidation and maintenance. Residual tumor after completion of induction had 
to be resected. No local RT was applied. Patients received intensified 
chemotherapy if tumor regression on day 33 of induction was <70% or when vital 
residual tumor was present after the induction phase. With a median follow-up of 
6.41 years, pEFS at 5 years is 91.4% (SE+/-2.7%). 101 patients were evaluable 
for the speed of tumor response. Two patients received intensified therapy due 
to <70% tumor regression on day 33. Of 19 patients with tumor residues after 
induction, 2 relapsed as compared to 4 of 80 patients with complete tumor 
regression. Our data demonstrate that, with intensive ALL-type chemotherapy but 
no local radiotherapy, an event-free survival rate of 90% can be achieved in 
childhood T-LBL. Providing tumor regression within 5 weeks is sufficient, tumor 
remnants after induction have weak prognostic impact.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00022795
PMID: 11757713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Ann Hematol. 2001;80 Suppl 3:B84-5. doi: 10.1007/pl00022798.

Consolidation radiotherapy to bulky disease in aggressive NHL. First results of 
the NHL B-94 trial of the DSHNHL.

RÃ¼be C(1), Nguyen TP, KlÃ¶ss M, Loeffler M, TrÃ¼mper L, Pfreunschuh M.

Author information:
(1)Department for Radiotherapy, Saarland University, Germany. 
ruebe@med-rz.uni-saarland.de

The impact of radiotherapy in aggressive NHL is not well defined. In the NHL 
B-94 trial of the DSHNHL, an irradiation of bulky disease areas was done after 
completing 6 cycles of CHOP/CHOEP chemotherapy. In the entire patient group, 
including those patients with extranodal disease and those who did not receive 
the complete chemotherapy, bulky disease was a significant independent 
prognostic factor concerning recurrence-free survival (66.1% (no bulk) vs. 53.3% 
(bulk), p=0.0001). Out of 366 patients with nodal disease only and 6 cycles of 
chemotherapy according to the protocol, 84 of 91 patients with bulky disease 
were irradiated with 36 Gy. In this group of patients the prognostic impact of 
bulky disease could not be shown any longer (recurrence-free survival 77.3% (no 
bulk) vs. 74.1% (bulk). Localized radiotherapy of bulky disease areas may 
therefore have contributed to an improvement in outcome in this high-risk group.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00022798
PMID: 11757716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Ann Hematol. 2001;80 Suppl 3:B97-9. doi: 10.1007/pl00022801.

Radiotherapy in early stage gastrointestinal lymphoma: results of the German 
GIT-NHL group.

Willich NA(1), Reinartz G, Reers B, Hiddemann W, Tiemann M, Parwaresch R, 
Grothaus-Pinke B, Kocik J, Koch P; German Gastrointestinal Lymphoma Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of MÃ¼nster, Germany. 
willich@uni-muenster.de

DOI: 10.1007/pl00022801
PMID: 11757719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Perit Dial Int. 2001 Sep-Oct;21(5):441-7.

Relationship between adequacy of dialysis and nutritional status, and their 
impact on patient survival on CAPD in Hong Kong.

Lo WK(1), Tong KL, Li CS, Chan TM, Wong AK, Ho YW, Cheung KO, Kwan TH, Wong KS, 
Ng FS, Cheng IK.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit of Tung Wah Hospital, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. 
wkloc@hkucc.hku.hk

OBJECTIVE: Superior patient survival on continuous ambulatory peritoneal 
dialysis (CAPD) with 3 x 2-L exchanges has been reported from Hong Kong. This 
study examined the relationship between indices of dialysis adequacy and 
nutrition and patient survival on CAPD in Hong Kong.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional study on prevalent CAPD patients. Patients were 
assessed for indices of dialysis adequacy and nutritional status with a 
composite nutritional index (CNI). Patients were then followed for 24 months. 
Survival data were analyzed according to adequacy indices and nutritional 
status.
SETTING: All prevalent CAPD patients in nine dialysis centers in Hong Kong as of 
1 April 1996.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Mortality.
RESULTS: 937 patients were assessed: 68.2% were using 3 x 2-L exchanges per day; 
mean age was 54.6 +/- 13 years. Mean total Kt/V was 1.83 +/- 0.42 and total 
creatinine clearance was 55.6 +/- 19.5 L/week/1.73 m2. 19% of patients were 
moderately to severely malnourished according to the CNI. There was no 
significant correlation between indices of adequacy and serum albumin or CNI. 
The 1- and 2-year patient survival from the time of assessment was 90.9% and 
79.8%. There was a trend toward better survival in patients with Kt/V greater 
than 2.0, but it was not statistically significant. Peritoneal Kt/V did not 
impact survival in anuric patients. Malnourished patients had poorer survival 
than patients who were better nourished (p = 0.0259). After adjusting for age 
and diabetes, CNI was predictive of mortality but Kt/V and creatinine clearance 
were not.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the importance of nutritional status over 
adequacy indices in predicting patient survival. There was a lack of correlation 
between nutritional status and conventional indices of dialysis adequacy.

PMID: 11757826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2001 Fall;17(4):488-96. doi: 
10.1017/s026646230110704x.

A fallacy of the multiplicative QALY model for low-quality weights in students 
and patients judging hypothetical health states.

Stalmeier PF(1), Chapman GB, de Boer AG, van Lanschot JJ.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, University Medical Center Nijmegen, 
University of Nijmegen.

OBJECTIVES: In quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) models, it is customary to 
weigh life-years with quality of life via multiplication. As a consequence, for 
positive health states a longer duration has more QALYs than a shorter duration 
(i.e., longer is better). However, we have found that for poor health states, 
many prefer to live only a limited amount of time (i.e., longer is worse). Such 
preferences are said to be maximum endurable time (MET). In the present 
contribution, the following questions are asked: a) How low does the utility 
have to be in order for a MET to arise? and b) Do MET preferences occur when 
patients judge hypothetical health states?
METHODS AND RESULTS: We reanalyzed data from 176 students for the hypothetical 
health states of "living with migraines" and "living with metastasized cancer." 
For utilities smaller than 0.7 (ranging from 0 to 1), the MET preference rate 
was larger than 50%. High MET preference rates were also found in two new 
studies on migraine and esophageal cancer patients, who evaluated hypothetical 
health states related to their disease.
CONCLUSIONS: We discuss the interpretation of the MET preferences and the 
preference reversal phenomenon. Standard QALY models imply that longer is 
better. However, we find that more often, longer is worse for poorly evaluated 
health states. Consider the following question: are 3 years with a weight of 0.3 
equally as valuable as 1 year with a weight of 0.9? Our results suggest that the 
3-year period may be less valuable because for poor health, many will prefer a 
1-year over a 3-year period.

DOI: 10.1017/s026646230110704x
PMID: 11758293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2001 Fall;17(4):503-16.

A method for assessing the cost-effectiveness and the break-even point of 
clinical practice guidelines.

Gandjour A(1), Lauterbach KW.

Author information:
(1)University of Cologne.

Assessing the costs and benefits of developing a clinical practice guideline is 
important because investments in guidelines compete with investments in other 
clinical programs. Despite the considerable number of guidelines in many 
industrialized countries, little is known about their costs and 
cost-effectiveness. The authors have developed specific measures to determine 
the cost-effectiveness of guidelines, using a German evidence-based guideline on 
obesity for the diagnosis and treatment of obese patients as a model. The 
measures are: the number of people needed to cure, the number of people needed 
to prevent from developing the disease in question, and the number of people to 
treat in order to break even.

PMID: 11758295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2001 Fall;17(4):618-25.

Dynamic modeling in medical technology assessment. Fitting hearing aids in The 
Netherlands.

Boas G(1), van der Stel H, Peters H, Joore M, Anteunis L.

Author information:
(1)University of Maastricht.

OBJECTIVES: The main objective of this article is to demonstrate the usefulness 
of dynamic modeling for an economic assessment of technology in health care. 
Specifically, this approach is applied to assess the impact of the use of 
hearing aids in Dutch health care.
METHODS: The population is divided into different health classes between which, 
over time, transitions occur. Transition probabilities are derived from 
exogenous data. The transitions are associated with economic and societal costs 
and benefits. People who are satisfied with their hearing aids experience 
benefits. These benefits are expressed by quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Costs are made during transitions (mainly the fitting of hearing aids). A cohort 
analysis is carried out, starting with people in a particular age group. The 
starting point is a fixed number of people within this age group, who are 
followed during their whole lifetime.
RESULTS: Costs per QALY ratios are calculated for two health programs. The 
Fitting Hearing Aid Program describes the present situation in the Netherlands; 
the Post-purchase Counseling Hearing Aid Program is a hypothetical addition to 
the first program, where an intervention based on a Dutch study is undertaken to 
improve satisfaction with hearing aids. Future benefits and costs are discounted 
at a rate of 5%.
CONCLUSIONS: The dynamic modeling approach provides a more realistic picture 
than a static approach. Particularly, the cost-effectiveness of the Fitting 
Hearing Aid Program is compared with the Post-purchase Counseling Hearing Aid 
Program.

PMID: 11758306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Harefuah. 2001 Nov;140(11):1084-6, 1116.

[Pacing mode influence on morbidity and mortality].

[Article in Hebrew]

Roguin A(1), Amikam S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Rambam Medical Center, Faculty of Medicine, 
Technion, Haifa, Israel.

It is widely believed that physiologic pacing (defined as atrial or 
atrioventricular synchronous pacing) reduces cardiac morbidity and mortality and 
is associated with improved quality of life compared to ventricular pacing. In 
this review we present data from three large prospective trials (PASE, CTOPP, 
MOST) comparing physiologic pacing to ventricular pacing. The prospective trials 
report that physiologic pacing is associated with a reduced risk of developing 
chronic atrial fibrillation over time and improved quality of life in patients 
with sinus node disease compared to ventricular pacing. However, these trials 
failed to demonstrate that physiologic pacing reduces heart failure, 
thromboembolism, or cardiac death compared to ventricular pacing. Based on the 
available clinical trials, physiologic pacing is not indicated in patients with 
a short life expectancy. Physiologic pacing should be considered for younger 
patients (age < 75 years), patients likely to be pacemaker dependent, and 
patients for whom maintenance of sinus rhythm is desirable, i.e., patients with 
ventricular hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction who are most likely to be 
severely symptomatic if AV synchrony is lost.

PMID: 11759387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 2001 Fall;56(4):155-9, 188.

Health disparities among older women: identifying opportunities to improve 
quality of care and functional health outcomes.

Bierman AS(1), Clancy CM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes and Effectiveness Research of the Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality in Rockville, Maryland, USA.

Older women experience a high burden of chronic illness, disability, and 
comorbidity, and this burden is highest among socioeconomically disadvantaged 
and minority women. The consequences of a mismatch between the organization, 
delivery, and financing of health care for older women and their actual needs 
fall disproportionately on low-income and minority women. New sources of data, 
such as the Medicare Health Outcomes Survey, a new quality measure for 
Medicare+Choice plans, will provide valuable information to practitioners about 
the health and functioning of older women in general and about socioeconomically 
disadvantaged and minority women in particular. This information can be used to 
develop and implement interventions to improve the quality and outcomes of care 
for vulnerable subgroups of older women. There is cause for optimism that by 
improving the quality of clinical preventive services and the management of 
common chronic conditions and geriatric syndromes it will be possible to improve 
functional health outcomes, prevent or postpone disability, and extend active 
life expectancy for all older women while making progress toward eliminating 
health disparities among the most disadvantaged.

PMID: 11759783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Med Decis Making. 2001 Nov-Dec;21(6):468-78. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0102100605.

Using life expectancy to communicate benefits of health care programs in 
contingent valuation studies.

Morris J(1), Hammitt JK.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770 Buford Highway NE, MS K28, 
Atlanta, GA 30341-3724, USA. jmorris1@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: There is growing interest in the use of contingent valuation (CV) to 
estimate the monetary value of health program benefits. Ideally, CV could be 
used to value a specific shift in survival curve. However, a shift in survival 
curve may prove too complex for widespread use in CV instruments. To facilitate 
the use of CV in valuing longevity benefits, researchers need alternative 
summary measures that describe the longevity benefit in a single number that is 
more readily communicated in a CV context.
METHODS: The authors compare 2 methods for communicating longevity benefits in a 
CV survey. Random subsamples of respondents valued a longevity benefit expressed 
either as a continuing reduction in annual mortality risk or as a gain in life 
expectancy. To compare the validity of the alternative descriptions, the authors 
evaluate willingness to pay (WTP) estimates for consistency with theoretical 
predictions.
RESULTS: It is found that WTP for a longevity benefit is sensitive to the 
framing of the benefit, with respondents expressing higher WTP for the benefit 
expressed as a life expectancy gain. The life expectancy format performs better 
than the risk reduction format in one important regard-sensitivity to scope of 
the benefit-and no worse than the risk reduction format in other regards.
CONCLUSION: Expressing longevity benefits in terms of life expectancy appears to 
hold promise as a method for enhancing the validity of economic evaluation of 
health care programs.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0102100605
PMID: 11760104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Neurooncol. 2001 Sep;54(2):139-50. doi: 10.1023/a:1012905415868.

Current management of prolactinomas.

Nomikos P(1), Buchfelder M, Fahlbusch R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Erlangen-NÃ¼rnberg, Germany. 
nomikos@nch.imed.uni-erlangen.de

Prolactinomas constitute the largest group of pituitary adenomas in autopsy 
series. However, their relative incidence in recent surgical series is much less 
impressive since medical treatment with dopamine agonists is routinely employed, 
which in many cases leads to tumor shrinkage and normalization of prolactin 
levels. The clinical symptoms of hyperprolactinemia are menstrual dysfunction 
and galactorrhea in women and loss of libido and potency in men. Prolactinomas 
may present also as space occupying sellar mass lesions impinging on the 
adjacent structures like the pituitary gland, cavernous sinus and optic nerves. 
The standard primary treatment is medical by dopamine agonists. Prolactinomas 
are the prototype of tumors, the growth of which can be reliably and safely 
inhibited by specific drugs other than cytostatic chemotherapy. These 
unfortunately have side effects, like orthostatic hypotension, nausea and 
vomiting. The effects induced by dopamine agonists are suppressive but not 
tumoricidal. Thus, the therapeutic effect is only maintained as long as the drug 
is administered. Consequently. in most cases, treatment has to be continued 
life-long with a few exceptions, in whom normoprolactinemia persists even after 
discontinuation of dopamine agonists. Main indications of surgery in 
prolactinomas are intolerance of the medication, and tumors not responding to 
dopamine agonists. Occasionally, these may ultimately require radiation therapy. 
Remission rates in large series of surgically treated prolactinomas vary between 
54% and 86%. In our consecutive series of 540 surgically treated prolactinomas, 
the normalization rate after transsphenoidal surgery basically depended on the 
preoperative prolactin levels, tumor size and extension. The remission rate of 
82% in microprolactinomas with initial prolactin levels <200 ng/ml would even in 
small adenomas make one consider surgical treatment as an interesting 
alternative to long-term medical treatment.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1012905415868
PMID: 11761431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Przegl Epidemiol. 2001;55(3):305-12.

[Mortality of male members of the Polish olympic teams in 1981-1998].

[Article in Polish]

PoznaÅska A(1), Gajewski AK.

Author information:
(1)ZakÅad Statystyki Medycznej, PaÅstwowy ZakÅad Higieny, Warszawa.

OBJECTIVE: Comparison of the mortality of male members of the Polish Olympic 
teams with the general Polish male population for the period 1981-1998 and for 
two sub-periods 1981-1991 and 1992-1998.
METHODS: Statistical approach based on the follow-up method. Comparison with the 
reference population (Polish males from urban areas) was made by means of the 
standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and their 95% confidence intervals. The 
series test (Wald-Wolfowitz test) was applied to assess the mortality difference 
in 1981-1991 and 1992-1998.
MAIN OBSERVATIONS: A total number of 1,769 male members of the Polish Olympic 
teams were identified. Of those, 148 died before 1981 and 116 were excluded from 
the analysis because of incomplete data records. Finally analyzed cohort 
included 1,505 athletes of the age 14-99 years, who contributed 21,575.8 
person-years of observation. 131 deaths were noted during the analyzed period.
RESULTS: Calculated SMR for the analyzed group of sportsmen was 0.420; 95% 
confidence interval: 0.351-0.498. All age-specific SMRs was lower than in 
general population. The athletes' mortality in 1992-1998 was significantly lower 
than in 1981-1991.
CONCLUSION: Polish participants in Olympic Games were proved to exhibit 
significantly lower mortality than general Polish male population throughout 
their life. The decrease in sportsmen mortality decrease in 1992-1998 was 
stronger than observed for the reference population.

PMID: 11761838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Przegl Epidemiol. 2001;55(3):331-41.

[An epidemiologic survey of multiple sclerosis in the Szczecin province in 
Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Potemkowski A.

The possibility of a focus of the province of Szczecin (Northwestern part of 
Poland) was first noticed in our survey covering the period of 1960-86. Starting 
from 1986 the incidence of MS in this region was closely followed. Seven 
communes with an area of 1202 km2 and 45,231 inhabitants, had 50 MS patients on 
Dec. 31st, 1995 and a prevalence rate of 110,54/100,000. This is twice the 
prevalence more than in surrounding area (52,89/100,000). New cases appeared 
irregularly, with four peaks in 1960, 1967-8, 1976-7 and 1981-2. The age at 
onset, duration of disease, life expectancy and natural history of the disease 
in the focus and rest of Szczecin region were similar. We conclude, that 
clustering seems to be due to the influence of environmental factors, such as 
peat soil, coniferous forest, quality of drinking water and nearby industrial 
plants.

PMID: 11761841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Healthy People 2000 Stat Notes. 1995 Apr;(7):1-15. doi:
10.1037/e583992012-001.

Years of healthy life.

Erickson P, Wilson R, Shannon I.

DOI: 10.1037/e583992012-001
PMID: 11762385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Trustee. 2001 Nov-Dec;54(10):suppl 1-3 following 6.

Key industry facts.

American College of Healthcare Executives.

PMID: 11762420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Water Sci Technol. 2001;44(9):317-26.

Laboratory investigation of supported permeable organic covers for the 
management of odour emissions from anaerobic piggery waste ponds.

Hudson N(1), Casey K, Melvin S, Nicholas P.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Livestock Environmental Management Services, Queensland Department 
of Primary Industries, PO Box 102, Toowoomba, Queensland 4350, Australia.

Australian research has linked much of the odour arising from intensive 
livestock operations to pond treatment systems. A reduction in emissions from 
treatment ponds would therefore generally reduce odour emissions from intensive 
livestock operations. Published data indicates that the application of straw and 
other biological materials to effluent pond surfaces as a continuous cover 
reduces odour emissions. The effectiveness of these covers has not, however, 
been researched under controlled conditions. Using locally available materials, 
the efficacy of supported covers has been investigated using a series of 
laboratory anaerobic digesters treating typical piggery effluent. Research to 
date has focused on: identifying effective cover and cover support materials; 
quantifying odour reduction; identifying the impact use these covers may have on 
greenhouse gas emissions; devising practical and effective methods for 
constructing these covers. Results have confirmed that a variety of cover 
materials are effective in reducing pond odour emissions. Supporting the pond 
cover appears to extend the cover life expectancy. While greenhouse gas 
emissions appear to vary according to cover type, the overall significance of 
these emissions is not yet clear. The impact of permeable pond covers on overall 
pond performance requires additional research.

PMID: 11762479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Ann Oncol. 2001 Oct;12(10):1335-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a000215.

Are smokers actually a bonus for the Social Security systems?

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a000215
PMID: 11762801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Dec;53(12):1621-30. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00446-9.

Health behaviour, risk awareness and emotional well-being in students from 
Eastern Europe and Western Europe.

Steptoe A(1), Wardle J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, UK. 
a.steptoe@ucl.ac.uk

Life expectancy and other indices of health have deteriorated markedly in the 
former socialist countries of Eastern Europe over recent decades. The possible 
roles of lifestyles, knowledge about health and behaviour, emotional wellbeing 
and perceptions of control were assessed in a cross-sectional survey of young 
adults of similar educational status in Eastern and Western Europe. As part of 
the European Health and Behaviour Survey, data were collected in 1989-1991 from 
4170 university students aged 18-30 years from Austria, Belgium, the Federal 
Republic of Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland, and from 2293 students 
from the German Democratic Republic, Hungary and Poland. Measures were obtained 
of health behaviours, awareness of the role of lifestyle factors in health, 
depression, social support, health locus of control, and the value placed on 
health. After adjustment for age and sex, East European students had less 
healthy lifestyles than Western Europeans according to a composite index of 11 
health behaviours, with significant differences for seven activities: regular 
exercise, drinking alcohol, avoiding dietary fat, eating fibre, adding salt to 
food, wearing a seat-belt, and using sunscreen protection. East European 
students were less likely to be aware of the relationship between lifestyle 
factors (smoking, exercise, fat and salt consumption) and cardiovascular disease 
risk. In addition, they were more depressed (adjusted odds of elevated scores on 
the Beck Depression Inventory of 2.46, 95% C.I. 1.95-3.09), reported lower 
social support, and had higher beliefs in the "chance" and "powerful others" 
locus of control. Internal locus of control levels did not differ across 
regions, and Eastern Europeans placed a higher valuation on their health. 
Unhealthy lifestyles associated with lack of information about health and 
behaviour, greater beliefs in uncontrollable influences, and diminished 
emotional well-being, may contribute to poor health status in Eastern Europe.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00446-9
PMID: 11762888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Soc Sci Med. 2001 Dec;53(12):1653-66. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00450-0.

Family effects on self-reported health among Russian wives and husbands.

Cubbins LA(1), Szaflarski M.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Public Health Research and Evaluation, Battelle Seattle Research 
Center, WA 98105-3949, USA. cubbins@battelle.org

Alcohol abuse and a transition to the market economy are often blamed for high 
mortality and low life expectancy in Russia, but little is known about proximate 
influences on individual health. This study estimates family influences on the 
self-reported health of Russian wives and husbands. Predicting gender 
differences in the determinants of health status, hypotheses are presented for 
the effects on spouses' self-reported health of five family characteristics: 
economic status, household division of labor, family decision-making, presence 
of young children, and housing conditions. Controls are included for age, 
education, sensitivity, alcohol use, job-related time, and urban-rural location. 
Data from a 1996 sample of couples (n = 925) from Moscow and two rural regions 
of Russia are analyzed using logistic regression. The findings provide mixed 
support for the hypotheses, though they do show the important role of family 
characteristics on spouses' health. Family economic standing is important to 
both spouses' self-reported health, though young children in the home is not. 
Family decision-making does influence spouses' health: when Russian wives are 
the primary decision makers in the family, their own health suffers, though 
their husbands' health is better. And support is found for the combined effects 
of job-related time and household labor but only for wives' health. When wife's 
household labor is low, the probability of her having poor health increases, the 
more time she devotes to her job. However, when she does substantially more 
domestic labor than her husband, her job-related time has the opposite effect, 
reducing the chances of poor health, the more time she spends on job activities. 
This study is important both in helping to account for poor health of Russians 
during the current economic and social transition and in identifying aspects of 
family life that affect men's and women's health cross-nationally.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00450-0
PMID: 11762891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Arthritis Rheum. 2001 Dec;44(12):2746-9. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(200112)44:12<2746::aid-art461>3.0.co;2-z.

Long-term morbidity, mortality, and economics of rheumatoid arthritis.

Wong JB(1), Ramey DR, Singh G.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111, USA. jwong@lifespan.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the morbidity, mortality, and lifetime costs of care for 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: We developed a Markov model based on the Arthritis, Rheumatism, and 
Aging Medical Information System Post-Marketing Surveillance Program cohort, 
involving 4,258 consecutively enrolled RA patients who were followed up for 
17,085 patient-years. Markov states of health were based on drug treatment and 
Health Assessment Questionnaire scores. Costs were based on resource 
utilization, and utilities were based on visual analog scale-based general 
health scores.
RESULTS: The cohort had a mean age of 57 years, 76.4% were women, and the mean 
