duration of disease was 11.8 years. Compared with a life expectancy of 22.0 
years for the general population, this cohort had a life expectancy of 18.6 
years and 11.3 quality-adjusted life years. Lifetime direct medical care costs 
were estimated to be $93,296. Higher costs were associated with higher 
disability scores.
CONCLUSION: A Markov model can be used to estimate lifelong morbidity, 
mortality, and costs associated with RA, providing a context in which to 
consider the potential value of new therapies for the disease.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(200112)44:12<2746::aid-art461>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 11762934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Lakartidningen. 2001 Nov 21;98(47):5382, 5385.

[The global health development--what is the status and what can be done?].

[Article in Swedish]

Rosling H(1), Ekström AM, Ortendahl C.

Author information:
(1)IHCAR, institionen för folkhälsovetenskap, Karolinska institutet, Stockholm.

PMID: 11763641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Am J Dent. 2000 May;13(Spec No):15B-18B.

Clinical evaluation of fiber-reinforced epoxy resin posts and cast post and 
cores.

Ferrari M(1), Vichi A, García-Godoy F.

Author information:
(1)University of Siena, Italy. md3972@mclink.it

PURPOSE: This retrospective study evaluated treatment outcome of cast post and 
core and Composipost systems after 4 yrs of clinical service.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 200 patients were included in the study. They were 
divided in two groups of 100 endodontically treated teeth restored with a post. 
Group 1: Composipost systems were luted into root canal following the 
manufacturer's instructions. Group 2: Cast post and cores were cemented into 
root canal preparations with a traditional technique. The patients were recalled 
after 6 months, 1, 2 and 4 yrs and clinical and radiographic examinations were 
completed. Endodontic and prosthodontic results were recorded.
RESULTS: Group 1: 95% of the teeth restored with Composiposts showed clinical 
success; 3% of these samples were excluded for noncompliance and 2% showed 
endodontic failure. Group 2: Clinical success was found with 84% of teeth 
restored with cast post and core. 2% of these samples were excluded for 
noncompliance, 9% showed root fracture, 2% dislodgment of crown and 3% 
endodontic failure. Statistical evaluation showed significant differences 
between Groups 1 and 2 (P < 0.001). The results of this retrospective study 
indicated that the Composipost system was superior to the conventional cast post 
and core system after 4 yrs of clinical service.

PMID: 11763866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Am J Dent. 2000 May;13(Spec No):9B-13B.

Retrospective study of the clinical performance of fiber posts.

Ferrari M(1), Vichi A, Mannocci F, Mason PN.

Author information:
(1)University of Siena, Italy. md3972@mclink.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical performance of C-Posts, AEstheti Posts and 
AEstheti Plus Posts after a period of clinical service ranging from 1-6 yrs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 1,304 posts were included in the study: 840 Composiposts, 
215 AEstheti posts and 249 AEstheti Plus posts were placed into endodontically 
treated teeth. Four combinations of bonding/luting materials were used. The 
patients were recalled every 6 months and clinical and radiographic examinations 
were completed. Endodontic and prosthodontic results were recorded. Actuarial 
Life Table statistical analysis and Mantel-Haenszel comparison of survival curve 
have been performed at 95% level of confidence.
RESULTS: The 3.2% failure rate was due to two reasons: 25 posts debonded during 
removal of temporary restorations, and 16 teeth showed periapical lesions at the 
radiographic examination. No statistical significant differences were found 
among the four groups. The results of this retrospective study indicate that 
fiber posts in combination with bonding/luting materials can be routinely used.

PMID: 11763869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Biometrics. 2001 Dec;57(4):1030-8. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.01030.x.

Causal inference on the difference of the restricted mean lifetime between two 
groups.

Chen PY(1), Tsiatis AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh 27695, 
USA. pchen2@stat.ncsu.edu

When comparing survival times between two treatment groups, it may be more 
appropriate to compare the restricted mean lifetime, i.e., the expectation of 
lifetime restricted to a time L, rather than mean lifetime in order to 
accommodate censoring. When the treatments are not assigned to patients 
randomly, as in observational studies, we also need to account for treatment 
imbalances in confounding factors. In this article, we propose estimators for 
the difference of the restricted mean lifetime between two groups that account 
for treatment imbalances in prognostic factors assuming a proportional hazards 
relationship. Large-sample properties of our estimators based on martingale 
theory for counting processes are also derived. Simulation studies were 
conducted to compare these estimators and to assess the adequacy of the 
large-sample approximations. Our methods are also applied to an observational 
database of acute coronary syndrome patients from Duke University Medical Center 
to estimate the treatment effect on the restricted mean lifetime over 5 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2001.01030.x
PMID: 11764241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Bull Med Ethics. 2000 Oct;(162):19-22.

Can the "quality of life" be used as a criterion in health care services?

Aksoy S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Ethics and History of Medicine, Harran University 
Faculty of Medicine, Sanliurfa, Turkey.

Because the resources in health care services are limited, different criteria 
have been used to choose patients for treatment or for non-treatment. The 
'Quality of Life' criterion is the one most commonly used in different parts of 
the world. However the usefulness and necessity of quality of life judgements in 
health services has always been controversial. This article discusses the 
'Quality of Life' criterion from different perspectives. It appears from the 
discussion that it is not easy to define 'Quality of Life' and the difficulty 
originates from the relativity of the concept. The article also examines the 
QALY (Quality Adjusted Life Year), and concludes that it not only involves 
ageism and sexism but also injustice and unfair discrimination. The article 
finally argues that it is not possible to measure the quality of life of an 
individual either accurately or reliably. Therefore it cannot be used as a 
criterion in health care services.

PMID: 11764808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Herz. 2001 Nov;26(7):447-53. doi: 10.1007/pl00002047.

[Lactate in cardiac rehabilitation].

[Article in German]

Heitkamp HC(1), Hipp A.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Sportmedizin, Medizinische Universitätsklinik Tübingen. 
Hans-Christian.Heitkamp.@uni-tuebingen.de

BACKGROUND: Training increases work capacity and concomitantly quality of life, 
and also, according to new data, the life expectancy of patients with coronary 
heart disease and heart failure. At the same time, the importance of adequate 
training intensity increases aiming at low complications and high efficacy.
ASSESSMENT OF EXERCISE CAPACITY: The objective of the present work is to define 
objective training guidance parameters in cardiac rehabilitation. Maximal 
exercise capacity must be distinguished from the performance without symptoms of 
oxygen deficit. The latter used to be early surpassed in untreated stabile 
angina pectoris. Within the last decade optimized therapy often yields a cardiac 
performance limit above the anaerobic threshold derived from lactate 
measurements. The concepts of aerobic and anaerobic thresholds derived from the 
lactate performance curve are introduced and modified leaving the 4 mmol/l 
lactate threshold concept to meet the criteria for performance capacity and 
breaking point in cardiac patients. The relationship to threshold concepts 
derived from spirometric data is mentioned as well as from stress hormones. The 
heart rate at the anaerobic threshold measured at treadmill ergometry 
systematically lies above the one from bicycle ergometry. Lactate increases 
faster with advancing age and the anaerobic threshold is earlier reached and 
progressively so because of the reduced muscle mass and reduced endurance 
capacity of people of the industrialized countries.
IMPORTANCE: The determination of the anaerobic threshold as an objective 
criteria independent of motivation leads to training control, as shown by an 
example. Ineffective training above the threshold giving rise to catecholamines 
can be avoided by lactate performance diagnostic. Additionally, the success of 
rehabilitation measures can objectively be quantified and documented much better 
from the threshold work capacity than from maximal exercise tolerance. 
Preliminary reports indicate the importance of lactate diagnostics for 
rehabilitation guidance in heart failure.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00002047
PMID: 11765477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Recenti Prog Med. 2001 Nov;92(11):676-89.

[Systemic HIV-non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the era of HAART. Natural history].

[Article in Italian]

Juzbasic S(1), Spina M, Vaccher E, Tirelli U.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica A, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Centro di 
Riferimento Oncologico, Aviano.

In the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), systemic non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma (NHL) represented the most frequent cancer associated to HIV infection. 
In contrast to Kaposi's sarcoma and primary central nervous system lymphoma 
(PCNSL) which incidence have been declining after introduction of HAART, 
systemic NHL-HIV has relatively stable remained. Systemic HIV related NHL are 
markedly heterogeneous both histologically and clinically and this 
clinicophatological heterogenity reflects variability in the molecular lesions 
associated to these lymphomas and immunological status of these patients. The 
introduction of HAART has substantially modified the approach to HIV related 
lymphomas. The results of recent monoinstitutional study of Aviano Cancer's 
Institute on 235 patients have suggested that HAART would otherwise allow a long 
life expectancy with longer disease free survival and overall survival. In fact 
the reduced of morbidity of AIDS patients bought by HAART justified the use of 
aggressive antineoplastic therapies.

PMID: 11765662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Compr Ther. 2001 Winter;27(4):322-9. doi: 10.1007/s12019-001-0030-4.

Aging, cumulative disability, and the compression of morbidity.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, 1000 Welch 
Road, Suite 203, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA.

The Compression of Morbidity paradigm emphasizes reduction in cumulative 
disability by postponing chronic infirmity. This article describes the model, 
reviews data suggesting morbidity compression over time, establishes 
associations between health risks and subsequent disability, and describes risk 
reduction interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s12019-001-0030-4
PMID: 11765690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Eur J Public Health. 2001 Dec;11(4):386-92. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/11.4.386.

Governing people's lives. Strategies for improving the health of the nations in 
England, Denmark, Norway and Sweden.

Vallgårda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3, DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark. 
s.vallgarda@pubhealth.ku.dk

Public health strategies reflect governments' wish to make people's lives longer 
and healthier. This can either be achieved by influencing the frames of people's 
lives and activities or the way they behave, i.e. to try to 'conduct their 
conduct'. In this paper the motivations for and methods of four national public 
health strategies are analysed. They are the English, the Norwegian, the Danish 
and the Swedish. Four questions are addressed: i) how is the governing 
activities aimed at improving the health of the population justified; ii) which 
issues are defined as problems; iii) which causes of the problems are 
identified; and iv) which governing techniques are suggested to solve the 
problems. The English and Danish programmes focus on mortality while the others 
give high priority to non-lethal diseases and conditions. The Danish programme 
mainly aims at making people conduct themselves in a more healthy way, i.e. 
change their behaviour, often guided by health professionals. The Norwegian 
paper has empowerment as its central strategy. The strategy is based on the 
assumption that if people get more power over their own lives they will become 
more healthy and behave in a more healthy way. The Swedish emphasis is on 
changing people's living conditions and much less is said about the role of the 
individual. The English programme launches a national contract where individuals 
and authorities should work both to change people's behaviour and their living 
conditions. All strategies deal with the increasing social inequality in health, 
the English and Swedish strategies more than the others. There does not seem to 
be a specific Nordic model in this field of welfare state politics.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/11.4.386
PMID: 11766478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Eur J Public Health. 2001 Dec;11(4):393-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/11.4.393.

East-west differences in reported preventive practices. A comparative study of 
six European areas of the WHO-CINDI programme.

Pardell H(1), Roure E, Drygas W, Morava E, Nüssel E, Puska P, Uhanov M, 
Laaksonen M, Tresserras R, Saltó E, Salleras L.

Author information:
(1)CINDI-Catalonia Programme, Department of Health and Social Security, 
Autonomous Government of Catalonia, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Differences have been reported in life expectancy and mortality 
between Eastern and Western European countries. Also, disparities have been 
found among different European countries or populations concerning the 
implementation of preventive practices by health professionals. This study 
analysed the patterns of reported preventive practices in three Eastern European 
areas and three Western ones.
METHODS: Health surveys were carried out in particular geographical area of six 
countries participating in the project (three Eastern European countries; 
Russia, Poland and Hungary and three Western European countries; Finland, 
Germany and Spain). All of them are partners in the WHO-CINDI (Countrywide 
Integration Non-communicable Diseases Intervention) Programme. Three preventive 
practices are analysed: reported blood pressure and blood cholesterol 
measurements and reported antismoking counseling during the last year. Data are 
presented separately for the general population and for people reporting 
specific chronic conditions (cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease and/or 
diabetes mellitus).
RESULTS: Blood pressure measurement and antismoking counseling are more 
frequently reported to be carried out by primary health care physicians in the 
Eastern European areas while blood cholesterol measurement is more frequently 
reported in Western European countries. All these preventive activities are more 
frequently reported to be done among people with chronic conditions than in the 
population as a whole.
CONCLUSIONS: Major differences have been found in reported preventive practices 
between Eastern and Western European countries. Great potential exists for 
chronic disease prevention among them.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/11.4.393
PMID: 11766479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Orthopade. 2001 Nov;30(11):866-80. doi: 10.1007/s001320170023.

[[Surgical intra-articular interventions in arthrosis].

[Article in German]

Anders S(1), Schaumburger J, Grifka J.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Regensburg, BRK Rheuma-Zentrum, Bad Abbach. 
sven.anders@klinik.uni-regensburg.de

The reconstruction of weight-bearing joint surfaces has long been a challenge 
for the orthopedic surgeon. The statistical rise in life expectancy, the spread 
of high-risk sports and leisure-time activities combined with high demands for 
painfree joint function even in older age as a factor for contemporary quality 
of life are the demographic factors of the bone and joint decade announced by 
the WHO. Osteoarthritis represents a multifactorial, irreversible, often 
heterogeneous joint disease with joint destruction as the inevitable 
consequence. Conventional and innovative intra-articular operative methods for 
the treatment of osteoarthritis are presented and discussed. Tissue engineering 
stands for vitalizing tissue modification by modification of cellular and 
humoral mechanisms. Thus, new therapy options for curing degenerative joint 
diseases will arise in the future. Autologous chondrocyte transplantation (ACT) 
represents one of the first clinically established methods. The paradigm of 
treating osteoarthritis by the orthopedic surgeon will be multimodal in the 
future. Innovative techniques in the biotechnological sector provide a promising 
horizon.

DOI: 10.1007/s001320170023
PMID: 11766631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Chirurg. 2001 Nov;72(11):1292-7. doi: 10.1007/s001040170034.

[Minimally invasive screw fixation of the intracapsular femoral neck fracture in 
elderly patients].

[Article in German]

Bosch U(1), Schreiber T, Skutek M, Cserháti P, Fekete K, Krettek C.

Author information:
(1)Unfallchirurgische Klinik der Medizinische Hochschule Hannover. 
bosch.ulrich@mh-hannover.de

INTRODUCTION: Increasing life expectancy is associated with an increase of 
geriatric fractures such as intracapsular femoral neck fractures. Their 
treatment by arthroplasty imposes a significant burden on our health care 
system.
METHODS: In an open clinical study we investigated the complication rate of a 
less expensive and less invasive, femoral head saving operative procedure. 
Between June 1997 and June 2000, 205 intracapsular femoral neck fractures of 
elderly patients (mean age 78.1 +/- 11.8 years) were fixed with cannulated 
screws.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven percent were displaced fractures and 15.6% were impacted 
Garden I fractures. Reoperation after internal fixation occurred in 38 patients. 
The most frequent cause of reoperation was secondary arthroplasty due to 
redisplacement (14x), femoral head necrosis (10x) and non-union (7x). Implant 
removal (4x), wound hematoma (1x) and femoral head penetration by screws (2x) 
were other causes for reoperation.
CONCLUSION: Less invasive cannulated screw fixation of intracapsular femoral 
neck fractures should be considered as a treatment option, because it is a 
smaller and less expensive operation than prosthetic replacement. Adequate 
reduction and screw placement, however, are a prerequisite for successful 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040170034
PMID: 11766653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2001;22(5):379-83.

Nongenital metastatic cancers of the ovary: a clinical analysis.

Akhan SE(1), Kilic G, Salihoglu Y, Bengisu E, Berkman S.

Author information:
(1)Istanbul Medical Faculty, Gynecology and Obstetrics Department, University of 
Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to outline the parameters affecting the 
extent and type of surgery for metastatic tumors of the ovary.
MATERIAL-METHOD: The data of 34 operated patients diagnosed with metastatic 
tumors of the ovary at the Istanbul University, Medical Faculty Gynecologic 
Oncology Department between 1991 and 1999 were evaluated retrospectively. The 
patients were divided into two study groups according to the origin of the 
tumor: 1. Metastatic tumors of the ovary originating from the organs apart from 
the gastrointestinal system (MT-NonGIS). 2. Metastatic tumors of the ovary 
originating from the gastrointestinal system (MT-GIS). Survival rates were 
calculated in months from the time of ovarian surgical intervention to the date 
of last known data of patient status. Mean survival rates for the noncensored 
data were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method and resulting curves were 
compared by the log-rank procedure. Statistical significance was determined at 
the level of 0.05.
RESULTS: The survival rate for all cases was 24.21 months: the same rate was 
calculated to be 45.36 months for the MT-nonGIS group while it was 15.8 months 
for the MT-GIS group. When both groups were compared in terms of survival rates, 
the difference was significant (p: 0.0025, log rank: 9.14). Overall cumulative 
survival rates for 9, 14, 24 and 50 months were 61.59%, 50.05%. 41.7% and 
11.58%, respectively. It was also found that surgery performed on patients in 
the MT-GIS group did not alter the survival rate but if peritoneal metastasis 
was observed during surgery, life expectancy for these cases was significantly 
less.
CONCLUSION: Although the number of patients included in our study was small, it 
is important because it gives us a clue about the type of surgery that should be 
performed in GIS-originating metastatic tumors of the ovary. Our study shows 
that aggressive surgery should be avoided in patients with peritoneal 
metastasis/spread.

PMID: 11766746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2001 Nov;58(12-13):1897-906. doi: 10.1007/pl00000825.

Towards new beta-lactam antibiotics.

Andersson I(1), van Scheltinga AC, Valegård K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, 
Uppsala Biomedical Centre. inger.andersson@molbio.slu.se

Antibiotics have had a profound impact on human health and belong to one of the 
largest-selling classes of drugs worldwide. Introduced into industrial 
production only some half century ago, these miracle drugs have been the main 
contributors to the recent increase in human life expectancy. However, the 
accelerated emergence of bacteria that are resistant to multiple antibiotic 
types now appears as the most serious threat to continuing success in the 
treatment of infectious diseases. Recent advances in our knowledge of the 
structures and mechanisms of enzymes in the biosynthetic pathways of penicillins 
and cephalosporins, amongst the most important antibiotics in current use, have 
identified a common structural core together with common iron- and 
cosubstrate-binding motifs. The diversity in the catalytic specificities of 
these oxygenases using very similar structural platforms suggests that altering 
the substrate and product specificities of these enzymes should be possible in 
the laboratory. This opens up new avenues for industrial production and medical 
utilisation.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00000825
PMID: 11766886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. JAMA. 2001 Dec 12;286(22):2805-6.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Influence of homicide on 
racial disparity in life expectancy--United States, 1998.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11767733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Eur J Epidemiol. 2001;17(4):337-46. doi: 10.1023/a:1012757616119.

Cardiovascular risk factors as determinants of 25-year all-cause mortality in 
the seven countries study.

Menotti A(1), Blackburn H, Kromhout D, Nissinen A, Adachi H, Lanti M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

This analysis aims at describing all-cause mortality and their determinants in 
16 cohorts of middle-aged men of eight nations. A total of 12,763 men aged 40-59 
years were enrolled in the late 1950s and early 1960s in 16 cohorts located in 
the USA, Finland, The Netherlands, Italy, Croatia, Serbia, Greece and Japan. The 
highest death rates were found in Slavonia-Croatia, due to high rates of 
infectious diseases and violence (death rate of 610 per 1000), and in East 
Finland due to high rates from coronary heart disease (death rate of 597 per 
1000). The lowest death rates were found in a highly educated group in Belgrade, 
Serbia (death rate 295 per 1000) and in Crete, Greece (death rate 314 per 1000). 
The ecological analysis showed no significant relationship between mean risk 
factor levels and all-cause death rates except for the direct association with 
systolic blood pressure during the first 15 years follow-up. Individual 
multivariate analysis on eight national pools showed that age, systolic blood 
pressure, and smoking habits are direct, significant, and universal long-term 
predictors of all-cause mortality. Serum cholesterol, physical activity and body 
mass index were so only in some areas. Multivariate coefficients were similar 
across nations. Pooled hazards ratios were 1.55 for a difference of 5 years of 
age (CI: 1.51-1.59); 1.23 for 10 cigarettes smoked per day (CI: 1.20-1.26); 0.91 
for one unit (based on three grades) of physical activity score (CI: 0.87-0.95); 
1.04 for 1 mmol/l of serum cholesterol (CI: 1.02-1.07); and 0.93 for three units 
of body mass index (CI: 0.91-0.96). In conclusion some cardiovascular risk 
factors predict long-term risk of all-cause mortality in different cultures.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1012757616119
PMID: 11767959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Am Coll Surg. 2001 Dec;193(6):626-32. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(01)01090-0.

Bowel resection at the time of primary cytoreduction for epithelial ovarian 
cancer.

Gillette-Cloven N(1), Burger RA, Monk BJ, McMeekin DS, Vasilev S, DiSaia PJ, 
Kohler MF.

Author information:
(1)University of California Irvine, Orange, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine the morbidity and 
survival associated with bowel resection at the time of primary cytoreductive 
surgery for ovarian cancer.
STUDY DESIGN: We reviewed all patients undergoing bowel resection by gynecologic 
oncology faculty at the time of primary cytoreduction for advanced epithelial 
ovarian cancer diagnosed between 1983 and 1995.
RESULTS: There were 105 patients meeting the above criteria. The median age was 
65 years (range 34 to 85 years). There were 76 stage III and 25 stage IV 
cancers. The primary indication for bowel resection was tumor debulking in 92% 
of the patients. Seventy patients had segmental resection of the colon only, and 
22 patients underwent resections that included the large and small bowels. Mean 
operating time was 260 minutes and mean estimated blood loss was 1,447 mL. 
Thirty-three (31%) patients were optimally cytoreduced to less than 1 cm 
residual disease. Ten patients experienced major complications directly related 
to bowel resection, including bowel fistula (4 patients), early postoperative 
bowel obstruction (5 patients), and stomal hernia (1 patient). Other morbidity 
included ileus for more than 10 days (18 patients), cardiac complications (17 
patients), pneumonia (8 patients), sepsis (5 patients), and thromboembolism (4 
patients). Six patients died and five patients required reexploration within 30 
days of operation. Patients with preoperative bowel obstruction and suboptimal 
residual disease were more likely to have postoperative morbidity. Median 
survival in the optimally debulked patients was 35 months compared with 18 
months in patients suboptimally cytoreduced (p = 0.006). Multivariate analysis 
demonstrated that optimal debulking (p = 0.009) and platinum chemotherapy (p = 
0.00006) were independently associated with improved survival. Age, 
International Federation of Gynecologia Oncologists stage, American Society of 
Anesthesiologists class, and paclitaxel chemotherapy did not influence survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing bowel resection at the time of primary 
cytoreduction for ovarian cancer, optimal cytoreduction to less than 1 cm 
residual disease results in improved survival. Morbidity is common but is 
comparable to other published series of ovarian cancer patients undergoing 
primary cytoreductive surgery without bowel resection. Additionally, patients 
with preoperative bowel obstruction and suboptimal residual disease are more 
likely to have serious morbidity.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(01)01090-0
PMID: 11768679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Eff Clin Pract. 2001 Nov-Dec;4(6):281-3.

Finding undiagnosed type 2 diabetes: is it worth the effort?

Engelgau MM, Narayan KM.

Comment on
    Eff Clin Pract. 2001 Nov-Dec;4(6):271-7.

PMID: 11769302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Przegl Lek. 2001;58(7-8):809-13.

[Thyroid carcinoma--contemporary diagnostic principles and treatment].

[Article in Polish]

Szybiński P(1), Nowak W.

Author information:
(1)I Katedra i Klinika Chirurgii Ogólnej i Gastroenterologicznej Collegium 
Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego w Krakowie.

Thyroid cancer, which is a rare neoplasm, is still controversial issue. 
References approved in Poland in 1995 caused unification of the extension of 
thyroid surgery to total resection of thyroid gland in case of cancer. For many 
surgeons such a radical treatment is still doubtful. On the other hand thyroid 
cancer is an object of many studies because of its heterogenous clinical course 
and prognosis depending of histological type. This article focuses on modern 
principles of diagnosis, treatment and follow-up according to obligatory 
references in Poland. The authors show current epidemiological data, prognosis 
according to histological type of cancer and explain pathogenesis of the 
disease. Preoperative diagnostic model has been described including role of 
ultrasound examination, biopsy, cytology and histology examination. Special 
interest was taken to follow-up patients after total thyroidectomy emphasising 
the role of thyreglobin in early detection of cancer recurrence. It is also 
important to observed patients for the rest of their life because cancer 
recurrences have been reported even 40 years after surgery. Preoperative 
diagnosis and treatment is a typical example of multi-disciplinary procedure 
which should be held in specialistic centres with proper equipment and 
experience.

PMID: 11769392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Dermatol. 2001 Nov;28(11):638-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2001.tb00052.x.

Epidermolysis bullosa: scientific advances and therapeutic challenges.

Eady RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Pathology, Guy's, King's, and St Thomas' 
School of Medicine, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

Epidermolvsis bullosa (EB) is a heterogeneous group of inherited skin fragility 
and blistering disorders. Over the last 25 years research in EB has progressed 
from descriptive morphological studies through quantitative ultrastructural and 
biochemical analysis to molecular genetic approaches, including linkage 
analysis, gene cloning and sequencing, and mutation screening. Currently, 10 
distinct causative genes are known to underlie different forms of EB, and this 
knowledge has been translated to improving the clinical management of patients 
with these disorders. For example, first trimester DNA-based prenatal diagnosis 
is now available in a number of centres in different countries, including Japan, 
the USA and the UK, and preimplantation genetic diagnosis is also possible. The 
development of novel forms of treatment for enhancing wound healing and reducing 
blistering are the subject of an international research effort. Programmes aimed 
at developing gene therapy for the major forms of EB have already reached the 
preclinical testing stages. Despite these impressive scientific advances, EB 
continues to be a devastating disease, in which the high incidence of aggressive 
squamous cell carcinoma has a major influence on both morbidity and life 
expectancy, especially in patients with the severe mutilating form of dystrophic 
EB.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2001.tb00052.x
PMID: 11770723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Otolaryngol. 2001 Aug;30(4):242-5. doi: 10.2310/7070.2001.19779.

Use of radiotherapy for control of sialorrhea in patients with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Harriman M(1), Morrison M, Hay J, Revonta M, Eisen A, Lentle B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Otolaryngology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver.

Many patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) develop progressive 
difficulty with swallowing secretions, and drooling becomes a significant 
problem. The production of saliva can be reduced with radiation of the 
submandibular and sublingual salivary gland tissue. This method has been used 
successfully in Europe and had limited use at Vancouver Hospital. This study was 
undertaken to determine the lowest effective dose of radiation necessary to 
control salivary production. Over a 3-year period, patients with ALS who 
developed significant problems with drooling were identified and treated with a 
predetermined dose of radiation. The first group received a single dose of 8 Gy 
in one fraction and the second received a total of 12.5 Gy in two fractions. 
They were followed over the next 6 months and were evaluated for effectiveness 
and side effects. Their saliva was measured pre- and postradiation treatment, 
and they were also asked to evaluate the change subjectively, using a 
questionnaire. The preliminary findings suggest that 8 Gy of radiation was 
effective in controlling drooling, and increasing the dose did not improve 
initial control. Long-term control was difficult to evaluate as the patients 
entered in the study were very ill and their life expectancy was very short. 
Radiation at this low dose resulted in very few side effects. Low-dose radiation 
can safely help control secretions in selected patients with ALS.

DOI: 10.2310/7070.2001.19779
PMID: 11771037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2001 Dec 6;90(49):2166-9.

[Increasing life expectancy: adding quality of life to those years].

[Article in German]

Stuck AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum Geriatrie-Rehabilitation, Zieglerspital, Bern.

Demographic changes are a challenge for the health care system. Based on three 
case reports, the potential for improving preventive, rehabilitative, and 
palliative care in older persons is presented. The article discusses the method 
of multidimensional geriatric assessment.

PMID: 11771198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(12):1185-97. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200119120-00001.

Accounting for noncompliance in pharmacoeconomic evaluations.

Hughes DA(1), Bagust A, Haycox A, Walley T.

Author information:
(1)Prescribing Research Group, Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. dyfrig@liv.ac.uk

Noncompliance with prescribed drug regimens is a widespread phenomenon which 
results in decreased efficacy and is often associated with increased medical 
expenditures. Despite this, economic evaluations based on decision-analytic 
models rarely incorporate noncompliance to allow for the differences in 
compliance observed between controlled clinical trials and routine clinical 
practice. This review examines the issues relating to the measurement of 
noncompliance, and the clinical and economic consequences of noncompliant drug 
taking behaviour. In order to fully appreciate the clinical (and therefore the 
economic) consequences of noncompliance, a detailed understanding of the type of 
noncompliance, the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the drug 
and the pathophysiological processes of the diseases being treated is required. 
These are described in detail, and a classification of drug-disease combinations 
according to the potential economic impact of the varying forms of noncompliance 
is set out. Issues are raised to highlight the need for improved modelling of 
the impact of noncompliance, and to this end, recommendations are made for 
future analyses. The main points are that compliance should be defined clearly, 
distinguishing between the various forms of noncompliance, that the assumptions 
relating to the health status of noncompliers should be explicit and robust, and 
that sensitivity analysis should be applied appropriately to ascertain the 
impact of noncompliance on the cost-effectiveness of drug therapies.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119120-00001
PMID: 11772154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Pharmacoeconomics. 2001;19(12):1199-208. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200119120-00002.

Incremental cost effectiveness of prophylaxis for cytomegalovirus disease in 
patients with AIDS.

Kempen JH(1), Frick KD, Jabs DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. jkempen@jhmi.edu

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease, an opportunistic complication in patients with 
AIDS, causes substantial morbidity and has high treatment costs. Although 
prevention of this disease is highly desirable, incremental cost-effectiveness 
estimates for proposed prophylactic strategies in the era prior to the 
availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) were unfavourable 
relative to other specific antimicrobial prophylactic strategies in patients 
with AIDS. With the availability of HAART, several inputs upon which previous 
estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for anti-CMV prophylaxis 
were based probably changed substantially. To assess the incremental cost 
effectiveness of prophylaxis in the HAART era, data are needed on visual 
outcomes and utility for patients with CMV retinitis and AIDS, on better 
strategies for identifying subpopulations at high risk for CMV disease and on 
the prophylactic efficacy of valganciclovir. Cost-effectiveness analysis could 
potentially contribute by exploring thresholds of population risk, prophylactic 
effectiveness, and drug pricing in order to identify conditions under which 
prophylaxis for CMV disease in patients with AIDS could potentially become cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200119120-00002
PMID: 11772155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Jan-Mar;37(2-3):315-9. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00198-x.

Allele frequencies of +874T-->A single nucleotide polymorphism at the first 
intron of interferon-gamma gene in a group of Italian centenarians.

Lio D(1), Scola L, Crivello A, Bonafè M, Franceschi C, Olivieri F, 
Colonna-Romano G, Candore G, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Immunopatologia, Dipartimento di Biopatologia e Metodologie 
Biomediche, Università di Palermo, Corso Tukory 211, 90134 Palermo, Italy.

Ageing is characterized by a pro-inflammatory status which could contribute to 
the onset of major age-related diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, 
neurodegeneration, osteoarthritis and osteoporosis, and diabetes. Thus, it can 
be hypothesized that genetic variations in pro- or anti-inflammatory cytokines 
might influence successful ageing and longevity. We have studied the 
distribution of +874T-->A interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) polymorphisms in a large 
number of Italian centenarians to evaluate if the two alleles might be 
differently represented in people selected for longevity. DNA samples were 
obtained from 174 Italian centenarians (>99 years old, 142 women and 32 men) and 
from 248 <60-year-old control subjects (90 women and 158 men) matched for 
geographical distribution. Polymorphisms at +874 were identified by using 
amplification refractory mutational system methodology. The +874T allele was 
found less frequently in centenarian women than in centenarian men or in control 
women whereas no significant differences were observed in the distribution of 
the two alleles between male or female controls. Allele frequencies in 
centenarian men were not found significantly different from male controls. 
Possession of the +874A allele, known to be associated with low IFN-gamma 
production, significantly increases the possibility to achieve extended 
longevity, suggesting that the pro-inflammatory status characteristic of ageing 
may be detrimental for successful ageing. The datum that the allele was 
significantly increased in female but not male centenarians seems to strengthen 
the idea that gender may be a major variable in the biology of the ageing 
process. However, the present data add another piece of evidence to the complex 
puzzle of genetic and environmental factors involved in controlling life span 
expectancy in humans. Thus, studies on cytokine gene polymorphisms may promise 
to individuate a complex network of trans-interactive genes able to influence 
the type and strength of responses to environmental stressors and as a final 
result, thereby conditioning individual life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00198-x
PMID: 11772518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Am J Public Health. 2002 Jan;92(1):30, 32-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.92.1.30.

The World Health Report 2000: can health care systems be compared using a single 
measure of performance?

Coyne JS(1), Hilsenrath P.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Administration Program, Washington State University 
Spokane, 310 N. Riverpoint Blvd., Box H, Spokane, WA 99202-1673, USA. 
joecoyne@wsu.edu

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2002 Jan;92(1):31, 33-4.
    Am J Public Health. 2002 Jul;92(7):1054-5; discussion 1055.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.1.30
PMCID: PMC1447380
PMID: 11772753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Am J Public Health. 2002 Jan;92(1):31, 33-4. doi: 10.2105/ajph.92.1.31.

The World Health Report 2000: can health care systems be compared using a single 
measure of performance?

Navarro V(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Policy Program, The Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health, 
624 N. Broadway, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. vnavarro@jhsph.edu

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 2002 Jan;92(1):30, 32-3.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.1.31
PMCID: PMC1447381
PMID: 11772754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Gut. 2002 Jan;50(1):123-8. doi: 10.1136/gut.50.1.123.

Cost effectiveness of adjuvant therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma during the 
waiting list for liver transplantation.

Llovet JM(1), Mas X, Aponte JJ, Fuster J, Navasa M, Christensen E, Rodés J, 
Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona-Clínic Liver Cancer Group, Liver Unit, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomédiques August Pi I Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. jmllovet@clinic.ub.es

BACKGROUND: Survival after liver transplantation for early hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) is worsened by the increasing dropout rate while waiting for a 
donor.
AIMS: To assess the cost effectiveness of adjuvant therapy while waiting for 
liver transplantation in HCC patients.
METHOD: Using a Markov model, a hypothetical cohort of cirrhotic patients with 
early HCC was considered for: (1) adjuvant treatment-resection was limited to 
Child-Pugh's A patients with single tumours, and percutaneous treatment was 
considered for Child-Pugh's A and B patients with single tumours unsuitable for 
resection or with up to three nodules < 3 cm; and (2) standard management. 
Length of waiting time ranged from six to 24 months.
RESULTS: Surgical resection increased the transplantation rate (>10%) and 
provided gains in life expectancy of 4.8-6.1 months with an acceptable cost 
($40,000/ year of life gained) for waiting lists > or = 1 year whereas it was 
not cost effective ($74,000/life of year gained) for shorter waiting times or 
high dropout rate scenarios. Percutaneous treatment increased life expectancy by 
5.2-6.7 months with a marginal cost of approximately $20,000/year of life gained 
in all cases, remaining cost effective for all waiting times.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant therapies for HCC while waiting for liver transplantation 
provide moderate gains in life expectancy and are cost effective for waiting 
lists of one year or more. For shorter waiting times, only percutaneous 
treatment confers a relevant survival advantage.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.50.1.123
PMCID: PMC1773063
PMID: 11772979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Clin Oncol. 2002 Jan 1;20(1):9-16. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.1.9.

Outcomes of tamoxifen chemoprevention for breast cancer in very high-risk women: 
a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hershman D(1), Sundararajan V, Jacobson JS, Heitjan DF, Neugut AI, Grann VR.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, 630 
West 168th St., New York, NY 10032, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2002 Jan 1;20(1):1-3.

PURPOSE: To estimate the effects on survival, quality-adjusted survival, and 
health care costs of using tamoxifen for primary prevention in subgroups of 
women at very high risk for breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A decision analysis was performed using a hypothetical 
cohort of women that included subgroups with atypical hyperplasia, Gail risk 
greater than 5, lobular carcinoma-in-situ, or two or more first-degree relatives 
with breast cancer. Data sources were the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial, the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End-Results program, time trade-off preference 
ratings, the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound, and the United States 
Health Care Financing Administration.
RESULTS: Our model predicted that tamoxifen would prolong the average survival 
of cohort members initiating use at ages 35, 50, and 60 years by 70, 42, and 27 
days, respectively. It would prolong survival even more for those in the 
higher-risk groups, especially those with atypical hyperplasia (202, 89, and 45 
days). Tamoxifen use was also projected to extend quality-adjusted survival by 
158, 80, and 50 days in the atypical hyperplasia group. For younger women in the 
highest risk groups, chemoprevention with tamoxifen was estimated to have cost 
savings or be cost-effective, both with and without quality adjustments.
CONCLUSION: Chemoprevention with tamoxifen may be particularly beneficial to 
women with atypical hyperplasia, 5-year Gail model risk greater than 5%, lobular 
carcinoma-in-situ, or two or more first-degree relatives with breast cancer. The 
benefits may be greater if tamoxifen is initiated before age 50 years rather 
than after and if the breast cancer risk reduction conferred by tamoxifen lasts 
longer than 5 years. For women with a very high risk of invasive breast cancer, 
chemoprevention with tamoxifen seems to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.1.9
PMID: 11773148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Clin Oncol. 2002 Jan 1;20(1):263-73. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.1.263.

Outcomes and cost-effectiveness of alternative staging strategies for 
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Esnaola NF(1), Lazarides SN, Mentzer SJ, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA. nesnaola@mdanderson.org

PURPOSE: To identify the optimal strategy for staging the mediastinum of 
patients with known non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), stratified by tumor (T) 
classification.
METHODS: We used a decision-analytic model to compare the health outcomes and 
cost-effectiveness of three staging strategies: (1) chest computed tomography 
alone, (2) selective mediastinoscopy, and (3) routine mediastinoscopy. The 
overall effectiveness and cost of each strategy was a function of the proportion 
of patients accurately staged and the risks, benefits, and costs of the 
diagnostic tests and treatments used. Probability estimates and costs were 
derived from primary data and the literature. We adopted a societal perspective 
and calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) as cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Both mediastinoscopy strategies correctly identified more patients with 
mediastinal involvement (N2/N3 disease) and assigned them to multimodal 
regimens. Routine mediastinoscopy maximized quality-adjusted life expectancy in 
all patients, irrespective of T classification, and this result was robust to 
varying the model estimates over their reported ranges. In T1 patients, 
selective mediastinoscopy cost $24,500 per QALY gained, compared with $78,800 
per QALY gained for routine mediastinoscopy. In T2 and T3 patients, the ICER of 
routine mediastinoscopy was more favorable ($42,800 and $53,400 per QALY gained, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Routine mediastinoscopy maximizes quality-adjusted life expectancy 
in patients with known NSCLC, and its ICER compares favorably with other 
currently accepted medical technologies. The survival benefit and 
cost-effectiveness of this strategy are greater in patients with T2 and T3 
tumors and are likely to improve with advances in multimodal therapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.1.263
PMID: 11773178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Jan;57(1):B3-8. doi:
10.1093/gerona/57.1.b3.

Coordinated genetic control of neoplastic and nonneoplastic diseases in mice.

Miller RA(1), Chrisp C, Jackson AU, Galecki AT, Burke DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. 
millerr@umich.edu

Some models of aging imply that late-life diseases, though roughly synchronous, 
are the result of distinct pathophysiological processes, each in turn influenced 
by polymorphisms at multiple loci. Other models suggest that the dramatic 
increase in later life of multiple forms of illness might reflect the outcome of 
a unitary process, of so-far unknown biochemical nature, that proceeds at a 
species-specific rate to increase the risk of many forms of disease and 
disability in parallel. We have previously reported the results of genetic 
linkage analyses documenting the ability of alleles at D9Mit110, D10Mit15, and 
D12Mit167, and an allele pair at D2Mit58 and D16Mit182 to predict longevity in 
mice bred as the progeny of (BALB/cJ x C57BL/6J)F1 mothers and (C3H/HeJ x 
DBA/2J)F1 fathers (the UM-HET3 stock). Here we report the results of post hoc 
analyses to test the hypothesis that the genes that extend the life span of mice 
dying of neoplastic diseases also extend the life span of mice that die of 
nonneoplastic causes. In all four cases we find that the genotype associated 
with increased survival in mice dying of cancer is also associated for a similar 
degree of life span extension in mice dying of other causes. For D9Mit110 and 
the combination of D2Mit58 and D16Mit182, the difference is statistically 
