significant in both the neoplastic and nonneoplastic mouse groups. The data 
support the hypothesis that many forms of late-life disease may be influenced by 
shared pathophysiologic mechanisms that are under coordinated genetic control.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.1.b3
PMID: 11773200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2001;(30):109-13. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.jncimonographs.a003446.

Who should not receive chemotherapy? Data from American databases and trials.

Morrow M(1), Krontiras H.

Author information:
(1)Lynn Sage Breast Center, Department of Surgery, Northwestern University, 675 
N. St. Clair St., Galter 13-104, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. mmorrow@nmh.org

The demonstration of the effectiveness of chemotherapy in both premenopausal and 
postmenopausal women, regardless of estrogen receptor (ER) status, raises the 
question of whether all breast cancer patients should receive chemotherapy. 
Several patient groups with such a favorable long-term prognosis that they will 
obtain an extremely small benefit from chemotherapy can be identified. They 
include patients with lymph node-negative tumors of 1 cm or less in size, those 
with grade 1 tumors between 1.1 and 2.0 cm in size, and those with tumors of 
favorable histologic type (tubular and mucinous) up to 3 cm in size. A patient 
subgroup in which it is not clear that the benefits of chemotherapy routinely 
exceed the risks is postmenopausal women with ER-positive, lymph node-negative 
cancers receiving tamoxifen. There is a wide variation in prognosis in this 
group, and chemotherapy should be reserved for those at high risk of recurrence. 
Finally, no benefit for chemotherapy in women aged 70 years and older has been 
identified. The high rate of death from causes other than breast cancer may 
negate small survival benefits, and after adjustment for quality of life, the 
duration of treatment exceeds the gain in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jncimonographs.a003446
PMID: 11773302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2002 Jan-Feb;11(1):41-7, 57. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.00858.x.

Results of antihypertensive treatment trials in the elderly.

Leonetti G(1), Zanchetti A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Istituto Scientifico San Luca, Ospedale 
Maggiore, Universita di Milano, Via Spagnoletto 3, 20149 Milan, Italy. 
gastone.leonetti@unimi.it

The prevalence of arterial hypertension is age-dependent, and with the 
prolongation of life expectancy the number of elderly subjects with arterial 
hypertension is very relevant. Epidemiologic studies have shown that arterial 
hypertension is a risk factor in elderly patients and therefore the physician 
must know if the pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic reduction of blood pressure 
values is associated with a corresponding decrease in systolic-diastolic or 
isolated systolic hypertension. Clinical trials have shown that the lowering of 
blood pressure values is commonly associated with a decrease in cardiovascular 
events. So far, the reduction of blood pressure per se appears more relevant to 
the cardiovascular benefit than does a particular class of antihypertensive 
agents. The benefit of antihypertensive treatment has been shown up to the age 
of 80 years, while there are no clear indications of a benefit in persons older 
than 80 years. While sufficient data suggest that a diastolic blood pressure 
between 80 and 90 mm Hg is associated with a clear benefit in elderly patients, 
the data in support of a systolic reduction below 140 mm Hg require further 
direct confirmation.

(c)2002 CVRR, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.00858.x
PMID: 11773715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Int J Cancer. 2002 Jan 1;97(1):72-81. doi: 10.1002/ijc.1571.

Estimates of the world-wide prevalence of cancer for 25 sites in the adult 
population.

Pisani P(1), Bray F, Parkin DM.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Descriptive Epidemiology, International Agency for Research on 
Cancer, Lyon, France. pisani@iarc.fr

In health services planning, in addition to the basic measures of disease 
occurrence incidence and mortality, other indexes expressing the demand of care 
are also required to develop strategies for service provision. One of these is 
prevalence of the disease, which measures the absolute number, and relative 
proportion in the population, of individuals affected by the disease and that 
require some form of medical attention. For most cancer sites, cases surviving 5 
years from diagnosis experience thereafter the same survival as the general 
population, so most of the workload is therefore due to medical acts within 
these first 5 years. This article reports world-wide estimates of 1-, 2-3- and 
4-5-year point prevalence in 1990 in the population aged 15 years or over, and 
hence describes the number of cancer cases diagnosed between 1986 and 1990 who 
were still alive at the end of 1990. These estimates of prevalence at 1, 2-3 and 
4-5 years are applicable to the evaluation of initial treatment, clinical 
follow-up and point of cure, respectively, for the majority of cancers. We 
describe the computational procedure and data sources utilised to obtain these 
figures and compare them with data published by 2 cancer registries. The highest 
prevalence of cancer is in North America with 1.5% of the population affected 
and diagnosed in the previous 5 years (about 0.5% of the population in years 4-5 
and 2-3 of follow-up and 0.4% within the first year of diagnosis). This 
corresponds to over 3.2 million individuals. Western Europe and Australia and 
New Zealand show very similar percentages with 1.2% and 1.1% of the population 
affected (about 3.9 and 0.2 million cases respectively). Japan and Eastern 
Europe form the next batch with 1.0% and 0.7%, followed by Latin America and the 
Caribbean (overall prevalence of 0.4%), and all remaining regions are around 
0.2%. Cancer prevalence in developed countries is very similar in men and women, 
1.1% of the sex-specific population, while in developing countries the 
prevalence is some 25% greater in women than men, reflecting a preponderance of 
cancer sites with poor survival such as liver, oesophagus and stomach in males. 
The magnitude of disease incidence is the primary determinant of crude 
prevalence of cases diagnosed within 1 year so that differences by region mainly 
reflect variation in risk. In the long-term period however different demographic 
patterns with long-life expectancy in high-income countries determine a higher 
prevalence in these areas even for relatively uncommon cancer sites such as the 
cervix.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.1571
PMID: 11774246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Minn Med. 2001 Dec;84(12):7.

Real preventive medicine.

Handler S.

PMID: 11774627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Stud Hist Philos Sci. 2001 Dec;32(4):647-84. doi:
10.1016/s0039-3681(01)00026-7.

The ontology of the questionnaire: Max Weber on measurement and mass 
investigation.

Brain RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of History and Philosophy of Science, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, MA 021387, USA. brain@fas.harvard.edu

Although contemporary sociologists of science have sometimes claimed Max Weber 
as a methodological precursor, they have not examined Weber's own writings about 
science. Between 1908 and 1912 Weber published a series of critical studies of 
the extension of scientific authority into public life. The most notable of 
these concerned attempts to implement the experimental psychology or 
psycho-physics laboratory in factories and other real-world settings. Weber's 
critique centered on the problem of social measurement. He emphasized the 
discontinuities between the space of the laboratory and that of the factory, 
showing how several qualitative and historically conditioned differences between 
the two settings rendered the transfer of instruments and methods between them 
highly problematic. Weber's critical arguments prepared the ground for his 
greatest foray into empirical sociology, a survey he directed for the Verein f√ºr 
Sozialpolitik investigating the conditions and attitudes affecting the lives and 
performance of industrial workers. Using a different measuring instrument - the 
questionnaire - Weber tried to implement a concept of social measurement which 
implied a different ontology, drawn not from natural sciences but from the 
historical sciences.

Copyright 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-3681(01)00026-7
PMID: 11774888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2001 Nov;2(11):1161-9.

[Antihypertensive therapy in the elderly: results of large trials].

[Article in Italian]

Leonetti G(1), Cuspidi C, Facchini M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Riabilitazione Cardiologica e Malattie dell'Apparato 
Cardiovascolare, Istituto Auxologico Italiano, IRCCS Ospedale San Luca Via 
Spagnoletto, 3 20149 Milano.

The aim of this review was to evaluate if antihypertensive treatment in elderly 
hypertensive patients is able to lower the incidence of cardiovascular events 
when compared to hypertensive controls who received placebo. All trials agree in 
that the greater blood pressure reduction in hypertensive patients randomized to 
active treatment is associated with a minor incidence of cerebrovascular, 
cardiac and all cardiovascular events in comparison to placebo-treated control 
groups. Therefore the chronic antihypertensive treatment makes more good than 
bad. All antihypertensive agents have been used for the treatment of arterial 
hypertension in the elderly and all have shown a good efficacy and tolerability, 
even if, as in the adult hypertensives, the combination of two or more agents is 
necessary in the great majority of hypertensive patients to reach the target 
blood pressure. Because life expectancy is progressively longer and the 
prevalence of hypertension, in particular isolated systolic hypertension, is 
age-dependent, it is clinically relevant to investigate if there is an upper 
limit for the benefit of antihypertensive therapy. The results so far available 
suggest a benefit up to the age of 80 years, while an ongoing study is aimed at 
evaluating the benefit of antihypertensive therapy in patients > 80 years. 
Finally, according to our personal point of view, there are sufficient data to 
sustain the indication of a diastolic blood pressure reduction between 80 and 90 
mmHg, while the indication to a reduction in systolic blood pressure below 140 
mmHg is less strong and supported.

PMID: 11775407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Health Serv Res. 2001 Dec;36(6 Pt 1):1085-107.

Constructs of burden of illness in older patients with breast cancer: a 
comparison of measurement methods.

Mandelblatt JS(1), Bierman AS, Gold K, Zhang Y, Ng JH, Maserejian N, Hwang YT, 
Meropol NJ, Hadley J, Silliman RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Lombardi Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Erratum in
    Health Serv Res. 2007 Oct;42(5):2088. Maserejan, N [corrected to Maserejian, 
N].

OBJECTIVE: The burden of illness can influence treatment decisions, but there 
are limited data comparing the performance of different illness burden measures. 
We assessed the correlations between five previously validated measures of 
illness burden and global health and physical function and evaluated how each 
measure correlates with breast cancer treatment patterns in older women.
DATA SOURCE: A cohort of 718 women > 67 years with early-stage breast cancer 
formed the study group. STUDY DESIGN/DATA COLLECTION METHODS: The study made a 
cross-sectional comparison of illness burden measures (Charlson index, Index of 
Co-existent Diseases, cardiopulmonary burden of illness, patient-specific life 
expectancy, and disease counts) and physical function and self-rated global 
health status. Data were collected from records and patient interviews.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: All of the measures were significantly correlated with each 
other and with physical function and self-rated health (p < .001). After 
controlling for age and stage, life expectancy had the largest effect on 
surgical treatment, followed by self-rated physical function and health; life 
expectancy was also independent of physical function. For instance, women with 
higher life expectancy and better self-rated physical function and health were 
more likely to receive breast conservation and radiation than sicker women. 
Women with higher physical functioning were more likely to receive adjuvant 
chemotherapy than women with lower functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Several measures of illness burden were associated with breast 
cancer therapy, but each measure accounted for only a small amount of variance 
in treatment patterns. Future work is needed to develop and validate measures of 
burden of illness that are feasible, comprehensive, and relevant for diverse 
clinical and health services objectives.

PMCID: PMC1089280
PMID: 11775669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2001 Oct;16(5):401-9. doi: 
10.1089/108497801753354302.

HLA phenotype and cytokine-induced tumor control in advanced renal cell cancer.

Franzke A(1), Buer J, Probst-Kepper M, Lindig C, Framzle M, Schrader AJ, Ganser 
A, Atzpodien J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, 
Germany. franzke.anke@mh-hannover.de

BACKGROUND: The natural history of malignancies, the response to cytokine-based 
therapy and survival of patients may be partly determined by the human leukocyte 
antigen (HLA) phenotype. Here, we investigated in a retrospective analysis the 
correlation of the HLA phenotype of 73 prognostic favored patients with advanced 
renal cell carcinoma to (a) the expected HLA distribution in Caucasians, (b) the 
susceptibility or resistance to metastatic sites, (c) response to cytokine-based 
therapy and (d) sustained cytokine-induced effective tumor control.
METHODS: We retrospectively determined the MHC class I and II antigens in 
patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma selected by survival. Antigens 
were serologically typed by standard lymphocytotoxicity techniques. For 
statistical analysis, we calculated the probability of the presented HLA 
antigens in correlation to the expected Caucasian HLA phenotypes. An independent 
confirmation was performed by using the chi-square and two-tailed Fisher's exact 
test.
RESULTS: Various HLA antigens deviated significantly from the normal 
distribution in the Caucasian population. HLA.B44 was the only antigen 
associated (p < 0.01) with the absence of lung and presence of bone metastases, 
while it did not impact on overall survival or response to therapy. A1 (p < 
0.0001, p < 0.002) and B8 (p < 0.009, p < 0.04) alleles were more frequently 
expressed in responding patients than expected from the normal distribution in 
Caucasians and that observed in non-responding patients, respectively. The HLA 
analysis of patients achieving a durable complete remission showed a 
significantly higher frequency of expression of the A1 and B8 antigens and 
furthermore of the B14 antigen (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data underline the pivotal role of the MHC complex in 
controlling and regulating the cellular immune response in renal cell cancer. We 
could identify HLA antigens, which correlate with response to 
cytokine-treatment, with a long-lasting effective tumor control and prolonged 
overall survival.

DOI: 10.1089/108497801753354302
PMID: 11776757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Vet Res. 2001 Nov-Dec;32(6):525-31. doi: 10.1051/vetres:2001144.

Oestrus ovis in sheep: relative third-instar populations, risks of infection and 
parasitic control.

Tabouret G(1), Jacquiet P, Scholl P, Dorchies P.

Author information:
(1)UMR 959, Physiopathologie des Maladies Infectieuses et Parasitaires des 
Ruminants, Ecole Nationale V√©t√©rinaire, Toulouse, France.

Oestrus ovis (L.) (Diptera: Oestridae), the nasal bot fly, has a relatively 
short free-living life cycle outside of the host, and therefore it is necessary 
to know when the parasitic period occurs in order to prevent the clinical signs 
and economic losses caused by this parasite. The length of this parasitic 
portion of the life cycle is quite variable: a few weeks to several months 
depending on the season and climatic conditions. Surveys of Oestrus ovis larval 
populations in sheep show different results on the number of generations 
according to the local climate. Mean monthly larval profiles of L1 and L3 
burdens of sheep from West African Sahelian countries, Mediterranean countries 
(Morocco, Tunisia and Sicily) and Southwest France were compared. Valuable 
information on the suspected extension of the fly season is obtained showing the 
period of infection in each area. This knowledge will be a valuable tool to help 
in choosing the right treatment at the right period.

DOI: 10.1051/vetres:2001144
PMID: 11777004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Econ Entomol. 2001 Dec;94(6):1344-52. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.6.1344.

Life table parameters, reproductive rate, intrinsic rate of increase, and 
estimated cost of rearing Podisus maculiventris (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) on 
an artificial diet.

Wittmeyer JL(1), Coudron TA.

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS, Biological Control of Insects Research Laboratory, Columbia, MO 
65203, USA.

The impact of an insect-free artificial diet provided at nymphal and/or adult 
stage upon the developmental rate, life table parameters, and fertility table 
parameters was examined for Podisus maculiventris (Say). This study showed that 
when fed an insect-free artificial diet during both the nymphal and adult stage, 
developmental time was prolonged, preoviposition period was extended, and 
reproductive rate (R0) and intrinsic rate of increase (r) were significantly 
lower than when fed larval insect prey at both nymphal and adult stages. 
Additionally, feeding larval prey to adults reared as nymphs on an artificial 
diet significantly increased the proportion of fertile females, the number of 
eggs laid by mated females, the reproductive rate and intrinsic rate of 
increase, but the mean generation time was not significantly different. 
Likewise, feeding artificial diet to adults reared on larval prey resulted in a 
significant reduction in reproductive rate and intrinsic rate of increase. The 
"realized" cost to rear P. maculiventris on the artificial diet was calculated 
(as the cost to double the population size) using raw material cost, fertility 
table parameters and doubling time values. Raw material cost for rearing P. 
maculiventris colony on Trichoplusia ni (H√ºbner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) was 
only 1.4 times higher than the cost of artificial diet raw materials required to 
rear the same size colony. However, the realized cost of rearing was 3.5 times 
higher when rearing on artificial diet because of the prolonged developmental 
time and reduced reproductive output. The cost efficiency of rearing a 
beneficial insect on an artificial diet that decreases the intrinsic rate of 
increase of a colony is discussed, as well as the advantages and disadvantages 
of supplementing adult diets with natural prey at the reproductive stage.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.6.1344
PMID: 11777035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Econ Entomol. 2001 Dec;94(6):1369-77. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.6.1369.

Dispersal of adult European corn borer (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) within and 
proximal to irrigated and non-irrigated corn.

Hun TE(1), Higley LG, Witkowski JF, Young LJ, Hellmich RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Nebraska Northeast Research and 
Extension Center, Concord 68728, USA. thunt2@unl.edu

The European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (H√ºbner), causes economic damage to 
corn, Zea mays L., throughout the Corn Belt. Because this insect has become the 
primary target of Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner (Bt) transgenic corn, current 
efforts addressing the management of O. nubilalis resistance to Bt corn require 
information on adult European corn borer dispersal and factors affecting its 
dispersal. In 1998 we conducted mark-release-recapture, release-recapture, and 
caged-mating studies to directly measure and compare local dispersal patterns of 
O. nubilalis adults within and proximal to irrigated and non-irrigated 
cornfields. Releases of marked adults were made corresponding to the first and 
second flight of O. nubilalis in eastern Nebraska. Adult dispersal was 
significantly different between irrigated and non-irrigated cornfields. Released 
adults tended to remain in and near irrigated cornfields, but dispersed out of 
and away from non-irrigated cornfields. When released at the edge of the 
cornfield, neither male nor unmated female O. nubilalis displayed an initial 
tendency to move out of irrigated corn and into the mixed smooth bromegrass 
(Bromus inermis Leyss) and broadleaf-weed field edge. Mating efficiency in a 
late-season cornfield was not significantly different than in dense foxtail 
(Setaria spp.). Generally, we found that adult O. nubilalis dispersal may vary 
depending on variables such as action-site availability and agronomic practices 
and their interaction with O. nubilalis life history.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-94.6.1369
PMID: 11777038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Support Care Cancer. 2002 Jan;10(1):81-3. doi: 10.1007/s005200100243.

Relapsed, poor-prognosis ovarian cancer, individualized, interdisciplinary 
treatment approach, and quality of life: a case report.

Wenzel CC(1), Schmidinger MP, Locker GJ, Jakesz R, Steger GG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Oncology, University of 
Vienna, Austria.

Metastatic ovarian cancer after cisplatin-containing first-line therapy is a 
disease with poor prognosis. The second-line treatment options currently 
available can induce objective remissions, but only rarely lead to prolonged 
periods of response. Thus, the best possible quality of life is the main goal 
for these patients. We report on the course of disease in a 51-year-old woman 
who presented with metastatic ovarian cancer that had relapsed to the liver, 
cisplatin-induced renal impairment, and bone marrow tuberculosis. Because of the 
severe co-morbidities and the poor prognosis with a life expectancy of less than 
6 months, the patient had been rejected by two other hospitals. In presenting 
this case, we want to demonstrate that despite poor prognostic factors, 
co-existing morbidity, and serious therapy-related side-effects, it is possible 
to induce long-lasting remissions leading to sustained quality of life and 
ultimately to prolong the remaining life-span in selected patients. To reach 
such a positive outcome, it is necessary to tailor an interdisciplinary 
treatment approach to each patient's needs. Such treatment approaches are 
available in dedicated tumor centers.

DOI: 10.1007/s005200100243
PMID: 11777194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Exp Cell Res. 2002 Jan 15;272(2):146-52. doi: 10.1006/excr.2001.5409.

Telomere biology and cellular aging in nonhuman primate cells.

Steinert S(1), White DM, Zou Y, Shay JW, Wright WE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-9039, USA.

To determine how cellular aging is conserved among primates, we analyzed the 
replicative potential and telomere shortening in skin fibroblasts of anthropoids 
and prosimians. The average telomere length of the New World primates Ateles 
geoffroyi (spider monkey) and Saimiri sciureus (squirrel monkey) and the Old 
World primates Macaca mulatta (rhesus monkey), Pongo pygmaeus (orangutan), and 
Pan paniscus (pigmy chimpanzee) ranged from 4 to 16 kb. We found that telomere 
shortening limits the replicative capacity of anthropoid fibroblasts and that 
the expression of human telomerase produced telomere elongation and the 
extension of their in vitro life span. In contrast the prosimian Lemur catta 
(ring-tailed lemur) had both long and short telomeres and telomere shortening 
did not provide an absolute barrier to immortalization. Following a transient 
growth arrest a subset of cells showing a reduced number of chromosomes overgrew 
the cultures without activation of telomerase. Here we show that the presence of 
continuous TTAGGG repeats at telomeres and rigorous control of replicative aging 
by telomere shortening appear to be conserved among anthropoid primates but is 
less effective in prosimian lemurs.

(c)2001 Elsevier Science.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.2001.5409
PMID: 11777339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Eur Psychiatry. 2001 Dec;16(8):474-82. doi: 10.1016/s0924-9338(01)00609-5.

Quality of life and treatment costs in schizophrenic outpatients, treated with 
depot neuroleptics.

Dernovsek MZ(1), Prevolnik Rupel V, Rebolj M, Tavcar R.

Author information:
(1)University Psychiatric Hospital, Studenec 48, SI-1260 Ljubljana-Polje, 
Slovenia. mojca-zvezdana.dernovsek@guest.arnes.si

Study aim was 1) to find out the influences on quality of life (QoL) of chronic 
outpatients with schizophrenia; 2) to calculate Quality Adjusted Life Years 
(QALY); and 3) to estimate direct 1-year treatment costs. In a 20% sample (100 
males, 100 females) of schizophrenic outpatients from the Outpatients Clinic in 
Ljubljana, Slovenia receiving depot neuroleptics demographic, clinical, and 
treatment data were collected for the year 1996. The Krawiecka Scale, Global 
Assessment Scale (GAS), Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale, Rating Scale for 
Drug-Induced Akathisia, Rating Scale for Extrapyramidal Side Effects, Quality of 
Life Scale (QLS), EQ-5D and QALY were used. Multivariate linear regression was 
used with the QLS score as dependent variable. The patients were on average 44 
years old and had been treated for 14 years. The average GAS score was 70. GAS 
was positively related to the QLS score while the parkinsonism score was 
inversely correlated with QLS. The patients can expect to live for 10. 20 more 
QALY on average. The QoL on the EQ-5D scale was 0.73. The annual direct 
treatment costs amounted to $216,216 in 1996 prices. In well-adjusted chronic 
patients with schizophrenia the QoL seems to depend mostly on their psychosocial 
performance and side effects. Although rare, re-hospitalisations accounted for 
one-half of all treatment expenses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0924-9338(01)00609-5
PMID: 11777738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):1-2. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7328.1.

Income inequality and population health.

Mackenbach JP.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2002 Apr 20;324(7343):978.
    BMJ. 2002 Apr 20;324(7343):978.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):13-6.
    BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):16-9.
    BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):20-3.
    BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):23-5.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.324.7328.1
PMCID: PMC1121932
PMID: 11777781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Science. 2002 Jan 4;295(5552):120-3. doi: 10.1126/science.1064653.

Extension of life-span in Caenorhabditis elegans by a diet lacking coenzyme Q.

Larsen PL(1), Clarke CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 607 Charles E. Young Drive East, 
Box 951569, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. 
larsen@chem.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2002 Jan 4;295(5552):54-5.

The isoprenylated benzoquinone coenzyme Q is a redox-active lipid essential for 
electron transport in aerobic respiration. Here, we show that withdrawal of 
coenzyme Q (Q) from the diet of wild-type nematodes extends adult life-span by 
approximately 60%. The longevity of clk-1, daf-2, daf-12, and daf-16 mutants is 
also extended by a Q-less diet. These results establish the importance of Q in 
life-span determination. The findings suggest that Q and the daf-2 pathway 
intersect at the mitochondria and imply that a concerted production coupled with 
enhanced scavenging of reactive oxygen species contributes to the substantial 
life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1064653
PMID: 11778046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2000 Jul;22(4):311-3.

[Evaluation of ten-year results of cancer prevention and treatment in Changle 
City with high incidence of gastric cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen Z(1), Zheng T, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Fujian Provincial Tumour Hospital, Fuzhou 350014, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of cancer prevention and treatment over a 
10-year period (1988-1997) in Changle City with high incidence of gastric 
cancer.
METHODS: The results were analysed with sick rate random test, trend test, GM 
and Kaplan-Meier method with SAS statistical software.
RESULTS: During the ten years, the sick rate of malignant tumors in male 
residents initially increased but then decreased. Gastric cancer had a tendency 
to decline. There was no obvious change for females. By short-term prediction, 
the sick rate of malignant tumors and gastric cancer would decrease, and that of 
liver cancer remain steady. The life expectancy of male residents increased 4.2 
years and that of female residents increased 1.8 years from 1988 to 1997 if 
cancer death was ignored, but the increase was not significant if only deaths 
from gastric and liver cancers were excluded. The 5-year survival rate of 
gastric cancer and liver cancer increased 8.8% and 29.3% from 1988 to 1990, 
respectively. The cumulative risk rate of gastric cancer in males was 3 times as 
high as that of females, and that of liver cancer in males was 2.5 times as high 
as that of females.
CONCLUSION: Sustained measures of cancer prevention and treatment woult 
anticipate further improvement of health status of Changle's residents in the 
years to come.

PMID: 11778558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Neurosurg. 2001 Aug;95(2):175-83. doi: 10.3171/jns.2001.95.2.0175.

A multidisciplinary team approach to skull base chordomas.

Crockard HA(1), Steel T, Plowman N, Singh A, Crossman J, Revesz T, Holton JL, 
Cheeseman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Neurology, The National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, United Kingdom. A.Crockard@ion.ucl.ac.uk

OBJECT: A multidisciplinary team devised a protocol for long-term care of 
patients with skull base chordomas. In this study they describe their approach.
METHODS: Forty-two patients presented between 1986 and 1998 and were treated by 
maximum surgical cytoreduction and photon radiation therapy. Tumor 
volume-doubling time determined on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging, 
immunostaining, and cell proliferation (Ki67 labeling index [LI]) studies 
indicated growth rates of individual chordomas. The best outlook was associated 
with the greatest extent of tumor removal achieved during the first operation. 
There were no deaths associated with patients who underwent first-time surgery, 
but there was a 7.1% mortality rate associated with those who underwent 
subsequent operations. Cerebrospinal fluid leaks, additional cranial nerve 
palsies, and pharyngeal wound problems were the most difficult management 
problems encountered after second and subsequent surgeries. The time interval 
between operations was usually between 2 years and 3 years after the first 
surgery; very few patients required a second surgery, with a quiescent period in 
excess of 5 years. Life-table 5- and 10-year survival rates were 77% and 69%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors believe that this series of skull base chordomas 
provides new insights into the management of these lesions, particularly with 
regard to techniques that increase survival times and studies that aid in 
formulating prognoses.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2001.95.2.0175
PMID: 11780885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Clin Epidemiol. 2002 Jan;55(1):25-31. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00425-5.

Risk tables for parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease.

Elbaz A(1), Bower JH, Maraganore DM, McDonnell SK, Peterson BJ, Ahlskog JE, 
Schaid DJ, Rocca WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, 200 
First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

We applied the incidence rates of parkinsonism and Parkinson's disease (PD) from 
Olmsted County, MN (1976-1990) to a hypothetical cohort undergoing the mortality 
rates observed in Minnesota, and computed the lifetime risk and the remaining 
lifetime risk of developing parkinsonism and PD. These risks were compared to 
cumulative incidences that do not take competing risks of death into account. 
The lifetime risk of developing parkinsonism from birth was 4.4% for men and 
3.7% for women (ratio = 1.2). The corresponding risk of developing PD was 2.0% 
for men and 1.3% for women (ratio = 1.5). Because of the opposite effect of 
higher incidence and higher mortality rates in men, the lifetime risks were only 
slightly higher in men than in women. Lifetime cumulative incidences were 
consistently higher than lifetime risks; this difference was more pronounced in 
men and in older subjects. Lifetime risk estimates are useful in clinical 
practice, epidemiologic research, and public health.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(01)00425-5
PMID: 11781119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Environ Health Perspect. 2002 Jan;110(1):61-5. doi: 10.1289/ehp.0211061.

Air pollution and daily mortality: a hypothesis concerning the role of impaired 
homeostasis.

Frank R(1), Tankersley C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, The Johns Hopkins University, 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. 
rfrank@jhsph.edu

We propose a hypothesis to explain the association between daily fluctuations in 
ambient air pollution, especially airborne particles, and death rates that can 
be tested in an experimental model. The association between airborne 
particulates and mortality has been observed internationally across cities with 
differing sources of pollution, climates, and demographies and has involved 
chiefly individuals with advanced chronic illnesses and the elderly. As these 
individuals lose the capacity to maintain stable, optimal internal environments 
(i.e., as their homeostatic capacity declines), they become increasingly 
vulnerable to external stress. To model homeostatic capacity for predicting this 
vulnerability, a variety of regulated physiologic variables may be monitored 
prospectively. They include the maintenance of deep body temperature and heart 
rate, as well as the circadian oscillations around these set-points. Examples 
are provided of the disruptive changes shown by these variables in inbred mice 
as the animals approach death. We consider briefly the implications that the 
hypothesis may hold for several epidemiologic issues, including the degree of 
prematurity of the deaths, the unlikelihood of a threshold effect, and the role 
that coarse, noncombustive particles may play in the association.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.0211061
PMCID: PMC1240694
PMID: 11781166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Oct;28(8):743-51. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703207.

Improved clinical outcome of paediatric bone marrow recipients using a test dose 
and Bayesian pharmacokinetic individualization of busulfan dosage regimens.

Bleyzac N(1), Souillet G, Magron P, Janoly A, Martin P, Bertrand Y, Galambrun C, 
Dai Q, Maire P, Jelliffe RW, Aulagner G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Debrousse Hospital, Lyon, France.

In order to control busulfan pharmacokinetic variability and toxicity, a 
specific monitoring protocol was instituted in our bone marrow transplant BMT 
paediatric patients including a test dose, daily Bayesian forecasting of 
busulfan plasma levels, and Bayesian individualization of busulfan dosage 
regimens. Twenty-nine children received BMT after a busulfan-based conditioning 
regimen. Individual pharmacokinetic parameters were obtained following a 0.5 
mg*kg test dose and were used for daily individualization of dosage regimens 
during the subsequent 4-day course of treatment. Doses were adjusted to reach a 
target mean AUC per 6 h between 4 and 6 microg.h.ml(+1). Plasma busulfan assays 
were performed by liquid chromatography. Pharmacokinetic analysis used the 
USC*PACK software. The performance of the test dose to predict AUC during the 
busulfan regimen was evaluated. Incidence of toxicity, chimerism and relapse, 
overall Kaplan-Meier survival, and VOD-free survival were compared after 
matching our patients (group A) with patients conditioned by using standard 
doses of busulfan (group B). Busulfan doses were decreased in 69% of patients 
compared to conventional doses. Expected AUC was significantly correlated with 
observed AUC and predictability of the test dose was 101.9 +/- 17.9%. Incidence 
of VOD in group A was 3.4% vs 24.1% in group B, while the incidence of 
stomatitis was similar. Engraftment was successful in all patients in group A. 
The rate of full engraftment at 3 months post-BMT was higher in group A (P = 
0.012). Long-term overall survival did not differ between the two groups, in 
contrast to the 90-day survival. VOD-free survival was higher in group A (P = 
0.026). Pharmacokinetic monitoring and individualization of busulfan dosage 
regimen are useful in improving clinical outcome and reducing early mortality in 
paediatric bone marrow transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703207
PMID: 11781625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Oct;28(8):769-74. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703226.

Oral eicosapentaenoic acid for complications of bone marrow transplantation.

Takatsuka H(1), Takemoto Y, Iwata N, Suehiro A, Hamano T, Okamoto T, Kanamaru A, 
Kakishita E.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Hyogo, 
Japan.

The 'systemic inflammatory response syndrome' (SIRS) may represent the 
underlying cause of complications after bone marrow transplantation (BMT). This 
study was conducted to determine whether blocking the etiologic factors of SIRS 
could improve the complications of BMT. Sixteen consecutive patients with 
unrelated donors were allocated alternately to two groups. Seven patients 
received 1.8 g/day of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) orally from 3 weeks before to 
about 180 days after transplantation, while nine patients did not. These two 
groups were compared with respect to complications, survival, and various 
cytokines and factors causing vascular endothelial damage. All seven patients 
receiving EPA survived and only two had grade III graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD). Among the nine patients not receiving EPA, three had grade III or IV 
GVHD. In addition, thrombotic microangiopathy developed in four patients and 
cytomegalovirus disease occurred in four. Five patients died in this group. The 
levels of leukotriene B(4), thromboxane A(2), and prostaglandin I(2) were 
significantly lower in patients receiving EPA than in those not receiving it 
(all P < 0.01). Cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, 
and interleukin-10 were also significantly decreased by EPA (P < 0.05), as were 
factors causing vascular endothelial damage such as thrombomodulin and 
plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (P < 0.05). The survival rate was 
significantly higher in the group given EPA (P < 0.01). EPA significantly 
reduced the complications of BMT, indicating that these complications may be 
manifestations of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703226
PMID: 11781629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Nov;28(9):827-34. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703248.

Excessive T cell depletion of peripheral blood stem cells has an adverse effect 
upon outcome following allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

Chakraverty R(1), Robinson S, Peggs K, Kottaridis PD, Watts MJ, Ings SJ, Hale G, 
Waldmann H, Linch DC, Goldstone AH, Mackinnon S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University College London, London, UK.

We evaluated the outcome of two modes of T cell depletion for HLA-identical 
sibling stem cell transplants in 34 consecutive adult patients: group A (n = 11) 
received PBSC post CliniMACs immuno-magnetic enrichment of CD34(+) cells and 
group B (n = 23) received bone marrow following in vitro incubation with 
CAMPATH-1M and complement. All patients received an identical conditioning 
regimen which consisted of in vivoCAMPATH-1H 20 mg over 5 days, thiotepa 10 
mg/kg, cyclophosphamide 120 mg/kg and 14.4 Gy TBI. No additional 
graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis was given. The mean T cell dose 
administered was 0.02 +/- 0.05 x 10(6)/kg for group A and 2.8 +/- 2.8 10(6)/kg 
for group B (P < 0.001). With a median follow-up of 28 months overall survival 
was 36.4% for group A at 12 months compared to 78.3% for group B (P = 0.001). 
Transplant-related mortality in group A at 12 months was 63.6% as compared to 
18.0% in group B (P = 0.003). Most of the procedure-related deaths in group A 
occurred secondary to infection. These results suggest that extensive in vitro T 
cell depletion of peripheral blood stem cells in combination with in vivo T cell 
depletion may have profound effects upon the incidence of infections following 
allogeneic stem cell transplantation and this may adversely effect 
transplant-related mortality.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703248
PMID: 11781642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Nov;28(9):841-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703253.

Allogeneic transplantation for multiple myeloma: further evidence for a 
GVHD-associated graft-versus-myeloma effect.

Le Blanc R(1), Montminy-M√©tivier S, B√©langer R, Busque L, Fish D, Roy DC, Kassis 
J, Boileau J, Lavall√©e R, B√©langer D, Letendre F, H√©bert J, Sauvageau G, 
Perreault C, Roy J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Immunology, H√¥pital Maisonneuve-Rosemont, Montr√©al, 
Qu√©bec, Canada.

We report a series of 37 consecutive patients with multiple myeloma (MM) who 
received an allograft between 1990 and 2000 at our institution. Median age was 
47 years, and nearly 70% of patients were Durie-Salmon stage III. A median of 
five cycles of chemotherapy were given before transplant, with a median interval 
between diagnosis and transplant of 9.3 months. We report a nonrelapse mortality 
rate of 22% with a median follow-up period of 40 months, whereas complete 
remission (CR) rate at 12 months is estimated at 57%. Treatment failure rate and 
overall survival at 40 months are estimated at 52% and 32%, respectively. The 
number of chemotherapy cycles prior to allotransplantation achieved borderline 
statistical significance as a poor prognosis factor for overall survival (P = 
0.05), while the presence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) was 
significantly correlated with CR achievement (P = 0.036). Our study confirms 
that early allografting in MM can yield toxicity rates significantly lower than 
those associated with historical cohorts, and supports the hypothesis that 
cumulative chemotoxicity has a negative influence on mortality and survival 
rates. More importantly, our study clearly demonstrates an association between 
cGVHD and CR and brings further evidence in favor of a graft-versus-myeloma 
effect.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703253
PMID: 11781644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Nov;28(9):865-71. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703236.

Prolonged survival associated with early lymphocyte recovery after autologous 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for patients with metastatic breast 
cancer.

Porrata LF(1), Ingle JN, Litzow MR, Geyer S, Markovic SN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Comment in
    Bone Marrow Transplant. 2003 Jan;31(2):141-2.

Early absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) recovery at day 15 post-autologous stem 
cell transplantation (ASCT) is a powerful prognostic indicator for survival in 
multiple myeloma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The relationship of ALC with 
clinical outcomes in metastatic breast cancer is unknown. We evaluated all 29 
patients with metastatic breast cancer who underwent ASCT at the Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minnesota, from 1994 to 1999. The ALC threshold was set at 500 
cells/microl on day 15 post-ASCT based on previous experience with hematologic 
malignancies. All patients were followed for a minimum of 2 years or until 
death, with a median follow-up for living patients of 2.25 years. Of the 29 
patients, 17 have died with disease progression, two are alive and have 
progressed, and 10 are alive without progression. The median overall and 
progression-free survival times were significantly better for the 20 patients 
with ALC > or = 500 cells/microl compared with the nine patients with ALC <500 
cells/microl (not reached vs 14 months, P < 0.0001; 24 vs 7 months, P < 0.0015, 
respectively). In conclusion, ALC > or = 500 cells/microl on day 15 post-ASCT 
was associated with significantly better survival in patients with metastatic 
breast cancer, suggesting the importance of early immune recovery post-ASCT in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703236
PMID: 11781647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Public Health. 2001 Nov;115(6):394-400. doi: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900808.

Where there are no data: what has happened to life expectancy in Georgia since 
1990?

Badurashvili I(1), McKee M, Tsuladze G, Mesl√© F, Vallin J, Shkolnikov V.

Author information:
(1)Georgian Centre of Population Research, Tbilisi, Georgia, USA.

In recent years there has been a considerable increase in understanding of 
changes in mortality in Russia and some other former Soviet republics. However, 
the situation in the republics of the Caucasus remains poorly understood. 
Information on Georgia is especially fragmentary as a fifth of the country 
remains outside government control, there has been large scale migration since 
1991, and the introduction of fees for vital registration has compromised the 
quality of official statistics. The aim of the study is to produce plausible 
estimates for life expectancy in Georgia for the period 1990-1998 and thus to 
assess whether Georgia has undergone changes similar to other former Soviet 
republics in the post-independence period. Four models were used to construct 
life tables. Model 1 used officially published statistics on deaths and 
population. Model 2 applied new estimates of population derived from household 
surveys to the observed deaths. Model 3 adjusted model 2 for under-registration 
at extremes of life, with parameter estimates derived from a survey of infant 
mortality and comparison of observed rates with Coale-Demeny standard life 
tables. Model 4 arose following inspection of death rates by cause that revealed 
implausible discontinuities in cancer mortality rates and involved applying the 
estimates of under-registration that this finding implied to model 3. The four 
models produce quite different estimates of life expectancy, differing by 7.8 y 
for men and 6.8 y for women by 1998. In any of the models, however, Georgia does 
not appear to have experienced the marked deterioration in life expectancy seen 
in Russia following the transition to independence. Importantly, Georgia had 
also not experienced a marked improvement in life expectancy during the 1985 
Soviet anti-alcohol campaign, again unlike other Soviet republics.Official 
statistics substantially over-estimate life expectancy at birth in Georgia. 
Despite undergoing a civil war, life expectancy in Georgia has been less 
affected by the transition than has Russia and the overall trends in mortality 
since the mid 1980s suggest that this may be because alcohol has played a 
smaller role in these changes than it did in Russia.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900808
PMID: 11781849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Stat Med. 2002 Jan 30;21(2):177-89. doi: 10.1002/sim.990.

Group sequential monitoring of years of life saved with paired censored survival 
data.

Murray S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, 
USA. skmurray@umich.edu

This research develops non-parametric methodology for sequential monitoring of 
paired time-to-event data when comparing years of life saved, or years where any 
unpleasant outcome is delayed, is of interest. The recommended family of test 
statistics uses integrated differences in survival estimates that are available 
during the study period, where adjustments are made for dependence in the 
survival and censoring outcomes under comparison. In the context of paired 
censored survival data, the joint asymptotic closed form distribution of these 
sequentially monitored test statistics is developed and shown to have a 
dependent increments structure. Simulations verifying nice operating 
characteristics of the proposed monitoring methods also reveal consequences of 
ignoring an underlying paired data structure in terms of size and power 
properties. A motivating example is also presented via the Early Treatment 
Diabetic Retinopathy Study, which did not have methods available for 
sequentially monitoring paired censored survival data at the time.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.990
PMID: 11782058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Development. 2002 Jan;129(1):143-54. doi: 10.1242/dev.129.1.143.

Eyes closed, a Drosophila p47 homolog, is essential for photoreceptor 
morphogenesis.

Sang TK(1), Ready DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 
47907, USA.

Starting with a mutation impacting photoreceptor morphogenesis, we identify here 
a Drosophila gene, eyes closed (eyc), as a fly homolog of p47, a protein 
co-factor of the p97 ATPase implicated in membrane fusion. Temporal 
misexpression of Eyc during rhabdomere extension early in pupal life results in 
inappropriate retention of normally transient adhesions between developing 
rhabdomeres. Later Eyc misexpression results in endoplasmic reticulum 
proliferation and inhibits rhodopsin transport to the developing photosensitive 
membrane. Loss of Eyc function results in a lethal failure of nuclear envelope 
assembly in early zygotic divisions. Phenotypes resulting from eyc mutations 
provide the first in vivo evidence for a role for p47 in membrane biogenesis.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.129.1.143
PMID: 11782408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jan 22;99(2):878-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.022326699.  Epub 2002 Jan 8.

Impaired apoptosis, extended duration of immune responses, and a lupus-like 
autoimmune disease in IEX-1-transgenic mice.

Zhang Y(1), Schlossman SF, Edwards RA, Ou CN, Gu J, Wu MX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Susceptibility of activated T cells to apoptosis must be tightly regulated to 
ensure sufficient T cell progeny for an effective response, while allowing a 
rapid depletion of them at the end of the immune response. We show here that a 
previously isolated, NF-kappa B/rel target gene IEX-1 (Immediate Early response 
gene X-1) is highly expressed in T cells at early stages of activation, but 
declines with a prolonged period of activation time, coincident with an 
increased susceptibility of T cells to apoptosis during the late phases of an 
