immune response. Transgenic expression of IEX-1 specifically in lymphocytes 
impaired apoptosis in activated T cells, extended a duration of an 
effector-phase of a specific immune response, and increased the accumulation of 
effector/memory-like T cells and the susceptibility to a lupus-like autoimmune 
disease. Our study demonstrated an antiapoptotic effect of IEX-1 on T cell 
apoptosis triggered by ligation of Fas and T cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 complex. 
The ability of extending life expectancy of T effectors, in line with a decrease 
in its expression following prolonged T cell activation, suggests a key role for 
IEX-1 in regulating T cell homeostasis during immune responses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.022326699
PMCID: PMC117399
PMID: 11782530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2002 Jan;34(1):158-65. doi: 
10.1097/00005768-200201000-00024.

Occupational physical activity is related to physical fitness in young workers.

Tammelin T(1), Näyhä S, Rintamäki H, Zitting P.

Author information:
(1)Oulu Regional Institute of Occupational Health, Finland. 
tuija.tammelin@occuphealth.fi

PURPOSE: We evaluated the association between occupational physical activity and 
fitness in young workers, taking into account leisure-time physical activity, 
body size, and smoking.
METHODS: The study population comprised 2188 men and 1987 women, members of the 
Northern Finland birth cohort 1966, who participated in the 1997-1998 follow-up 
survey and were employed at the time of the survey. Cardiorespiratory fitness 
was measured by a 4-min step test and muscular fitness by tests of maximal 
isometric handgrip and isometric trunk extension. Information on occupational 
and leisure-time physical activity and smoking was obtained by questionnaire, 
and body height and weight were measured during medical examination. The data 
were analyzed by analysis of variance and Cox regression.
RESULTS: Men doing heavy physical work scored better in cardiorespiratory 
fitness, handgrip strength, and trunk muscle endurance than men doing lighter 
work; the finding for cardiorespiratory fitness was similar in women. The 
associations were independent of leisure-time physical activity, body weight and 
height, and smoking.
CONCLUSION: A positive association was found between heavy physical work and a 
high level of fitness in young workers. Due to limitations of the study setting, 
causality cannot be asserted, but a training effect of heavy work would not seem 
unreasonable. Previous studies have suggested a reversal of the positive effect 
of heavy work on fitness with advancing age. Therefore, regular monitoring of 
workers' fitness at an early phase is justified to enable assessment of workers' 
capacity for heavy jobs and any possible need for fitness-improving activities.

DOI: 10.1097/00005768-200201000-00024
PMID: 11782662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Am J Ther. 2002 Jan-Feb;9(1):35-42. doi: 10.1097/00045391-200201000-00008.

Interspecies scaling: predicting oral clearance in humans.

Mahmood I(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Evaluation 1 (HFD-860), Office of Clinical 
Pharmacology and Biopharmaceutics, Food & Drug Administration, Rockville, MD 
20852, USA. Mahmoodi@CDER.FDA.GOV

The objective of this study was to test the interspecies scaling approach for a 
wide variety of drugs to predict oral clearance in humans from animal data. This 
study is an attempt to evaluate whether the rule of exponents of Mahmood and 
Balian for the prediction of systemic clearance can also be applied for the 
prediction of oral clearance in humans. Three different methods were used to 
generate log-log plots to scale up the clearance values: (1) clearance versus 
body weight (simple allometric equation), (2) the product of clearance and 
maximum life-span potential (MLP) versus body weight, and (3) the product of 
clearance and brain weight versus body weight. Data from 32 drugs were analyzed, 
and it was concluded that the oral clearance of drugs could be best predicted 
using one of the allometric equations.

DOI: 10.1097/00045391-200201000-00008
PMID: 11782818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Pharm Sci. 2002 Jan;91(1):290-300. doi: 10.1002/jps.10013.

In vitro assessment of intestinal IGF-I stability.

Anderle P(1), Langguth P, Rubas W, Merkle HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied BioSciences, ETH Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. 
anderle@cgl.ucsf.edu

Insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) is a 7648-Da polypeptide consisting of 70 
amino acids. Clinically, IGF-I might be used in type II diabetes, which requires 
a life-long treatment. Therefore, delivery routes other than parenteral 
injections are highly desirable. For convenience, the peroral route is the most 
attractive. Therefore, in an attempt to answer the feasibility of oral delivery 
of IGF-I we examined the metabolism of this polypeptide in the gut in the 
presence of crude porcine pancreatic enzymes (CPPE) and flushings of the small 
and large intestine from pig, rat, and dog. Moreover, incubation studies with 
purified pancreatic enzymes that are present in the intestine were performed to 
determine the most active enzymes responsible for the intestinal cleavage of 
IGF-I. IGF-I was mainly degraded by chymotrypsin (t(1/2) = 2.7 min) and trypsin 
(t(1/2) = 34.6 min), whereas in the presence of aminopeptidase M and 
carboxypeptidase A IGF-I was stable up to 90 min. IGF-I was degraded in 
flushings from the jejunum, ileum, and colon. However, there were no significant 
differences in the stability of IGF-I between the examined intestinal segments. 
The addition of serine protease inhibitors such as a combination of aprotinin, 
soybean trypsin inhibitor, and Nalpha-p-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone 
(TLCK), as well as casein profoundly improved the stability. Because we were 
able to improve the stability of IGF-I in vitro in all species at the same 
degree we speculate that a similar extension of half-life might also be possible 
in the human intestinal system.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.10013
PMID: 11782919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Lancet. 2001 Dec 22-29;358(9299):2170. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)07203-8.

Polychemotherapy for early breast cancer.

Rodger A.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2001 Jul 28;358(9278):277-86.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(01)07203-8
PMID: 11784664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Neurosci. 2002 Jan 15;22(2):437-45. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.22-02-00437.2002.

Multipotent neural stem cells reside into the rostral extension and olfactory 
bulb of adult rodents.

Gritti A(1), Bonfanti L, Doetsch F, Caille I, Alvarez-Buylla A, Lim DA, Galli R, 
Verdugo JM, Herrera DG, Vescovi AL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Stem Cell Research, Department of Biotechnology, San Raffaele 
Hospital, 20132 Milan, Italy. gritti.angela@hsr.it.

The lateral walls of the forebrain lateral ventricles are the richest source of 
stem cells in the adult mammalian brain. These stem cells give rise to new 
olfactory neurons that are renewed throughout life. The neurons originate in the 
subventricular zone (SVZ), migrate within the rostral extension (RE) of the SVZ 
along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) within tube-like structures formed of 
glial cells, to eventually reach the olfactory bulb (OB). We demonstrate that, 
contrary to the current view, multipotential 
(neuronal-astroglial-oligodendroglial) precursors with stem cell features can be 
isolated not only from the SVZ but also from the entire RE, including the distal 
portion within the OB. Specifically, these stem cells do not derive from the 
migratory neuroblasts coming from the SVZ. Interestingly, stem cells isolated 
from the proximal RE generate significantly more oligodendrocytes, and those 
from the distal RE proliferate significantly more slowly than stem cells derived 
from the SVZ and other RE regions. These findings demonstrate that stem cells 
are not confined to the forebrain periventricular region and indicate that stem 
cells endowed with different functional characteristics occur at different 
levels of the SVZ-RE pathway.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.22-02-00437.2002
PMCID: PMC6758684
PMID: 11784788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Rev Neurol. 2001 Nov 16-30;33(10):980-6.

[Intracranial ependymomas].

[Article in Spanish]

Gelabert González M(1), García Allut A, Fernández Villa JM, González García J, 
Martínez Rumbo R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía.Dpto. de Cirugía; Hospital General de Galicia, 
Santiago de Compostela, 15705, España. cimigego@usc.es

INTRODUCTION: Ependymomas are tumours derived from ependymal cells, found lining 
the cerebral ventricles and central canal of spinal cord. Intracranial 
ependymomas account for 2 6% of all neoplasms of the central nervous system and 
at least half present in the first two decades of life.
DEVELOPMENT: We review the epidemiological, clinical, neuropathological details, 
neuroradiological aspects and treatment of intracranial ependymomas.
CONCLUSIONS: Ependymomas of the posterior fossa predominate in children, while 
supratentorial tumours are more common in adults. This analysis of the 
literature further highlight that total tumour removal is the treatment of 
choice for intracranial ependymomas. Postoperative survival was predominantly 
dependent on the histological grade of malignancy, the extension of surgery and 
the age of the patient.

PMID: 11785014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Pathologica. 2001 Dec;93(6):631-9.

[Pathological factors involved in lymph node status determination in colorectal 
carcinoma: analysis of 166 cases with long-term follow-up].

[Article in Italian]

Lanza G(1), Gafà R, Decarli N.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale e Diagnostica, Sezione di Anatomia, 
Istologia e Citologia Patologica, Università di Ferrara, Via Fossato di Mortara 
66, I-44100 Ferrara, Italia. lng@dns.unife.it

Lymph node status has great clinical importance in the management of patients 
with colorectal cancer. Several pathologic factors may affect the accuracy of 
nodal status assessment in this tumor type. The aim of the present study was to 
evaluate, in a series of 166 stage II and stage III colorectal adenocarcinomas, 
the following pathologic parameters: number of lymph nodes recovered and 
examined, number of lymph nodes with metastases, and number of tumor nodules 
(TNs) in the perirectal or pericolic adipose tissue greater or smaller than 3 mm 
in diameter (TNs > 3 mm and TNs < 3 mm, respectively). The prognostic 
significance of these parameters, as well as of other histopathologic variables, 
was determined using univariate and multivariate survival analyses. Our results 
indicate that the examination of a small number of regional lymph nodes may 
result in understaging of tumors classified as pN0 (stage II). In addition, our 
data suggest that TNs > 3 mm and TNs < 3 mm represent distinct pathologic 
entities. TNs > 3 mm should be considered the prognostic equivalent of lymph 
node metastases as recommended by the 1997 TNM classification. In contrast, TNs 
< 3 mm probably originate by intravascular or perivascular tumor extension. 
Their presence is associated with adverse clinical outcome in stage III 
patients, regardless of the number of lymph node metastases.

PMID: 11785113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Eur Heart J. 2002 Jan;23(2):157-61. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2972.

Heart rate variability as a predictor of mortality in patients with AA and AL 
amyloidosis.

Reyners AK(1), Hazenberg BP, Reitsma WD, Smit AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Groningen, PO Box 
30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands.

AIMS: Patients with AA and AL amyloidosis have a limited life-expectancy. The 
aim of this study was to investigate whether heart rate variability can predict 
mortality in these patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Twenty-two recently diagnosed patients with AA and 23 
patients with AL amyloidosis were included. Fifteen patients (5 AA, 10 AL) died 
within 1 year. Twenty-four hour Holter recording was performed to quantify the 
mean of all normal to normal RR-intervals (mean NN) and the standard deviation 
of all normal to normal RR-intervals (SDNN). The SDNN predicted 1-year mortality 
in the total group of patients with amyloidosis. The median SDNN was 73 ms. In 
patients with an SDNN < or =73 ms, the risk of dying within 1 year was found to 
have increased 3.5-fold (P=0.0036; 95% CI 1.1-11.0). An SDNN < or =50 ms, a 
predictor of mortality in other patient groups, increased the risk of dying 
within 1 year 22-fold (P=0.0001; 95% CI 5.4-90.4). In contrast to patients with 
AA amyloidosis, in the subgroup analysis of patients with AL amyloidosis the 
SDNN remained a predictive parameter (SDNN < or =50 ms: risk ratio 11.5, 95% CI 
2.4-56.2, P=0.0025).
CONCLUSION: The SDNN is a strong predictor of short-term mortality in patients 
with AL amyloidosis.

Copyright 2002 The European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2972
PMID: 11785998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Health Policy. 2002 Jan;59(1):53-63. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00162-2.

Rationalising rationing: economic and other considerations in the debate about 
funding of Viagra.

Stolk EA(1), Brouwer WB, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

Although the cost-effectiveness of Viagra for the treatment of patients with 
erectile dysfunction is favourable, both public and political opinions seem to 
be inclined not to fund, or merely to partially fund (i.e. by reimbursing only 
specific patient groups) this medicine. This shows that in funding discussions, 
cost-effectiveness information is not solely decisive. In a theoretical 
framework for choices in health care that was developed in The Netherlands (the 
Dunning report, 1991), two other criteria besides cost-effectiveness were put 
forward as being important for rationing decisions: "necessary care" and 
"individual responsibility". Overlooking the Viagra discussion, many of the 
arguments put forward seemed to be related to these two criteria. However, a 
clear operationalisation of the criteria necessary care and individual 
responsibility is lacking, which makes it difficult to use the arguments in 
funding decisions. In this paper, we try to demonstrate how these criteria were 
presented in the Viagra discussion and we will indicate how these criteria can 
be operationalised in relation to the outcomes of a cost-effectiveness analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00162-2
PMID: 11786174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Brain Res Bull. 2001 Dec;56(6):525-30. doi: 10.1016/s0361-9230(01)00625-6.

hNT neurons delay onset of motor deficits in a model of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Willing AE(1), Garbuzova-Davis S, Saporta S, Milliken M, Cahill DW, Sanberg PR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Aging and Brain Repair, Department of Neurosurgery, University of 
South Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. awilling@hsc.usf.edu

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a degenerative motor neuron disease that 
manifests as a progressive muscular weakness leading to paralysis and death. 
Because of the diffuse nature of the motor neuron death, this disease is not 
considered a good candidate for treatment through neural transplantation. The 
purpose of this study was to show that transplantation of human neuron-like 
cells (hNT neurons) into the spinal cord of a transgenic ALS mouse model would 
improve motor deficits. The hNT neurons were transplanted bilaterally into L4-L5 
spinal cord of the transgenic mice ( approximately 8 weeks of age), and the 
animals were evaluated on health and behavioral measures. The animals were 
perfused, and immunohistochemistry was performed to identify the transplanted 
cells. Transplantation of the hNT neurons into the spinal cord delayed the onset 
of motor behavioral symptoms. This was the first demonstration that even 
localized transplantation of neural cells directly into the parenchyma could 
improve motor function in an ALS model. Further study is needed to delineate the 
mechanism underlying these effects. This therapeutic approach has the potential 
to restore neural transmission, thereby improving quality of life for the ALS 
patient and possibly extend life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(01)00625-6
PMID: 11786237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Clin Oncol. 2002 Jan 15;20(2):503-13. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.2.503.

When the treatment goal is not cure: are cancer patients equipped to make 
informed decisions?

Gattellari M(1), Voigt KJ, Butow PN, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Unit and Department of Cancer, University of Sydney, and 
Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
mgat9321@mail.usyd.edu.au

PURPOSE: Informed decision making now is considered the underpinning of ethical 
medical practice. We aimed to determine the extent to which patients with 
incurable cancer are adequately informed of their prognosis and treatment 
options and encouraged to participate in treatment decisions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred eighteen cancer patients with incurable 
disease presenting for an initial consultation with one of nine oncologists at 
two Sydney tertiary referral hospitals participated in the study. Consultations 
were recorded on audiotape to permit a content analysis of doctor-patient 
interactions. We devised a coding system to assess disclosure of information and 
to evaluate doctor encouragement of patient participation in treatment decision 
making. Patient recall, satisfaction, anxiety, and perceptions of the 
decision-making process were assessed to determine the effects of informed 
decision making on patient outcomes.
RESULTS: Most patients were informed about the aim of anticancer treatment 
(84.7%), that their disease was incurable (74.6%), and about life expectancy 
(57.6%). An alternative to anticancer treatments was presented to 44.1%, 36.4% 
were informed about how anticancer treatment would affect quality of life, and 
29.7% were offered a management choice. Oncologists checked patient 
understanding in only 10.2% of consultations. Although greater information 
disclosure did not seem to elevate anxiety levels, greater patient participation 
in the decision-making process was associated with increased anxiety levels (P 
=.0005), which persisted over a 2-week time span.
CONCLUSION: Most patients were well informed, but important gaps remain, 
especially concerning information about prognosis and alternatives to anticancer 
treatment. These gaps invite the question concerning whether patients are led 
toward anticancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2002.20.2.503
PMID: 11786580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Eur Urol. 2001;40 Suppl 3:13-8. doi: 10.1159/000049886.

Quality of life and sexuality: methodological aspects.

O'Leary MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harvard Medical School, Division of Urology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, 45 Francis Street ASB II-3, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
moleary1@partners.org

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) can impact significantly on a patient's 
quality of life (QOL), including sexual functioning. With increased life 
expectancy, this aspect of the disease is becoming increasingly important. 
Symptom severity can be measured using a number of instruments, the most common 
one being the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS). A number of studies 
have shown that symptom severity is correlated with decreased QOL, i.e. the more 
severe the symptoms, the greater the impact on QOL. Specific questionnaires have 
been developed to address the issue of sexual function, including the Brief 
Sexual Function Inventory and the International Index of Erectile Function. 
Importantly, these instruments can usefully be applied to assess the effect of 
the various therapies for BPH on sexual function. In general, the 
alpha(1)-blockers have minimal impact on sexual function, compared with 
finasteride, which can affect libido, ejaculation and erectile function itself.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000049886
PMID: 11786672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Dis Colon Rectum. 2002 Jan;45(1):47-53. doi: 10.1007/s10350-004-6113-4.

Segmental resection or subtotal colectomy in Crohn's colitis?

Andersson P(1), Olaison G, Hallböök O, Sjödahl R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Colorectal Surgery, University Hospital, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Linköping, Linköping, Sweden.

PURPOSE: Segmental resection for Crohn's colitis is controversial. Compared with 
subtotal colectomy, segmental resection is reported to be associated with a 
higher rate of re-resection. Few studies address this issue, and postoperative 
functional outcome has not been reported previously. This study compared 
segmental resection to subtotal colectomy with anastomosis with regard to 
re-resection, postoperative symptoms, and anorectal function.
METHODS: Fifty-seven patients operated on between 1970 and 1997 with segmental 
resection (n = 31) or subtotal colectomy (n = 26) were included. Reoperative 
procedures were analyzed by a life-table technique. Segmentally resected 
patients were also compared separately with a subgroup of subtotally 
colectomized patients (n = 12) with similarly limited colonic involvement. 
Symptoms were assessed according to Best's modified Crohn's Disease Activity 
Index and an anorectal function score.
RESULTS: The re-resection rate did not differ between groups in either the 
entire study population (P = 0.46) or the subgroup of patients with comparable 
colonic involvement (P = 0.78). Segmentally resected patients had fewer symptoms 
(P = 0.039), fewer loose stools (P = 0.002), and better anorectal function (P = 
0.027). Multivariate analysis revealed the number of colonic segments removed to 
be the strongest predictive factor for postoperative symptoms and anorectal 
function (P = 0.026 and P = 0.013, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Segmental resection should be considered in limited Crohn's colitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-004-6113-4
PMID: 11786764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Cas Lek Cesk. 2001 Oct 11;140(20):624-8.

[Different trends in cardiovascular mortality in the Czech and Slovak Republics 
after the partition of Czechoslovakia in 1993].

[Article in Slovak]

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav preventívnej a klinickej medicíny, Bratislava. ginter@upkm.sk

BACKGROUND: Development of health status aimed on cardiovascular mortality of 
male and female population in Czech and Slovak republics after the partition of 
the common state between years 1993 and 1999 is compared.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Within the followed seven years the mean life expectancy at 
birth in Czech Republic (CR) linearly increased by 2.6 years in males (p = 
0.00001) and 1.9 years in females (p = 0.0001). In Slovak Republic (SR) life 
expectancy increased in males only by 0.5 years and by 0.3 years in females (not 
significant). The main cause of such state is related to differences in 
cardiovascular mortality; standardised early cardiovascular mortality in age 
interval 0 do 64 years significantly lowered in males and females in both 
republics, the decrease being significantly higher in CR (p < 0.001). At 
present, the early cardiovascular mortality of males and females is over 30% 
higher than in CR. Similar development had also the early mortality rate among 
males and females on the ischaemic hearth disease (p < 0.05) and on 
cerebrovascular disease. Differences between SR and CR in mortality rate of the 
ischaemic heart disease (not the prevalence of the cerebrovascular disease) 
carry on also in 1999. Significant different was the development of 
cardiovascular mortality in the population over 64 years: In CR the decrease was 
continuous and highly significant (p = 0.000), meanwhile in SR the trend has the 
opposite direction. At present in SR is the cardiovascular mortality of males 
and females over 64 years higher than that in 1993. To the difference in the 
mean life expectancy of males in SR contribute also the higher infant mortality, 
the early cancer mortality, mortality to external causes, and the diseases of 
the respiratory and alimentary system.
CONCLUSIONS: Causes of the different development in SR and CR are not well 
recognised. They may include the lower level of education, worse composition of 
the diet, higher consummation of distillates and tobacco, and somehow lower 
level of health care in SR. Also the higher proportion of the Romany population 
in SR may be significant.

PMID: 11787212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2002 Jan;21(1):36-40. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(01)01066-1.

Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in the left ventricular dysfunction.

Eryilmaz S(1), Corapçioğlu T, Eren NT, Yazicioğlu L, Kaya K, Akalin H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Ankara University 
Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. sadikeryilmaz@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to report our experience in off-pump 
coronary artery surgery in patients who have left ventricular dysfunction.
METHODS: Off-pump coronary artery surgery was performed to 48 patients who were 
chosen randomly among 265 patients having two or more coronary artery disease 
and whose ejection fraction (EF) was less than 30%. In these patients fractioned 
shortening (FS) was evaluated by echocardiography, EF with multiple gated 
acquisition (MUGA) and ischaemic regions with myocardial perfusion scintigraphy 
both pre- and postoperatively. Coronary artery angiography was done to all 
patients at the end of the 1st year and patients were evaluated according to New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) classification.
RESULTS: There were three deaths. The clinical situations of 41 of 45 patients 
(91.1%) improved after the operation. These four patients who didn't improve in 
NYHA status were the ones in whom complete revascularization couldn't be done. 
The FS and EF values were significantly increased at the 1st month, and 1st 
year. The constant perfusion defects and irreversible damaged areas changed into 
dynamic myocardial tissue in the 1st year scintigraphies.
DISCUSSION: Off-pump CABG can be done with an acceptable mortality and clinic 
results in patients who have ventricular dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(01)01066-1
PMID: 11788253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Gut. 2002 Feb;50(2):253-8. doi: 10.1136/gut.50.2.253.

Cost effectiveness of combination therapy for hepatitis C: a decision analytic 
model.

Stein K(1), Rosenberg W, Wong J.

Author information:
(1)University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. ken@kkcats.demon.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost utility of treatment with combination therapy 
(ribavirin and interferon alpha) for hepatitis C compared with no treatment or 
monotherapy (interferon alpha) based on UK costs and clinical management.
DESIGN: Decision analysis model using a Markov approach to simulate disease 
progression.
SETTING: UK secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of patients with hepatitis C.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Discounted cost per QALY for combination therapy over no treatment was 
3791 pounds. Cost per QALY varied between 1646 pounds and 9170 pounds according 
to subgroup, with the lowest ratios being for genotype 2 or 3, women, those aged 
less than 40 years, and those with moderate hepatitis. The discounted cost per 
QALY of the combination over monotherapy was 3485 pounds. Similar findings were 
shown for subgroups as for the comparison with no treatment. One way sensitivity 
analysis showed that while drug costs were more important in the analysis than 
assumptions about disease progression or costs of treating hepatitis C disease, 
the results were robust to large changes in underlying assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy for hepatitis C is a cost effective treatment 
option and is superior to monotherapy. Considerable uncertainties remain over 
the appropriate management strategies in the populations excluded from 
randomised controlled trials and in whom treatment is currently being considered 
in the UK.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.50.2.253
PMCID: PMC1773115
PMID: 11788569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Jan;87(1):267-70. doi: 10.1210/jcem.87.1.8149.

Microvascular effects of CRH in human skin vary in relation to gender.

Clifton VL(1), Crompton R, Smith R, Wright IM.

Author information:
(1)Mothers and Babies Research Centre, John Hunter Hospital, University of 
Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales 2310, Australia.

Males and females have a significantly different life expectancy because of the 
cardioprotective effects of estrogen. The mechanisms that result in this 
difference between the sexes are not fully understood. However, stress is a 
contributing factor to the development of cardiovascular disease, and 
stress-related factors derived from central or peripheral sources may have 
differential effects in the modulation of cardiovascular function in males and 
females. CRH is a central modulator of the stress response and is known to have 
vasodilator effects in a number of vascular beds. We have examined whether CRH 
has vasodilator effects in human skin and whether this effect is different 
between males and females using laser Doppler and iontophoresis. CRH (1 nM) had 
vasodilatory effects in the skin circulation of both premenopausal females (n = 
6) and age-matched males (n = 5), but CRH-induced dilation was significantly 
more potent in females than males. Acetylcholine (1 nM) and sodium nitroprusside 
(0.74 nM) induced dilation was not significantly different between males (n = 6) 
and females (n = 6). This is the first study to demonstrate that CRH acts 
locally as a vasodilator in human skin circulation and that this response is 
augmented in premenopausal females. The mechanism by which CRH causes dilation 
in human skin is presently unknown. However, these data suggest that CRH-induced 
dilation may be one mechanism by which cardiovascular risk is reduced in 
premenopausal women.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.87.1.8149
PMID: 11788657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2002 Jan;13(1):61-9. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)60010-4.

Arterial embolization of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma with use of 
cyanoacrylate and lipiodol.

Loewe C(1), Cejna M, Schoder M, Thurnher MM, Lammer J, Thurnher SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Section of Interventional Radiology, University of 
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18 - 20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. 
christian.loewe@univie.ac.at

PURPOSE: To assess the potential of transarterial permanent embolization with 
use of a mixture of cyanoacrylate and lipiodol for treatment of unresectable 
primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a retrospective study, 36 patients with histologically 
proven HCC were treated with transarterial embolization (TAE) of the hepatic 
arteries. None of these patients were candidates for surgical resection and some 
had advanced disease with multinodular disease or bulky tumor, thrombosis of a 
segmental branch of the portal vein, and/or extrahepatic spread. To induce 
permanent and more peripheral embolization, cyanoacrylate, an adhesive 
polymerizing on contact with blood, was used in TAE. From 1990 to 1998, a total 
of 76 embolization procedures were performed. Cumulative survival rates were 
calculated.
RESULTS: Most of the patients presented with a self-limited postembolization 
syndrome. Severe procedure-related complications were found after four treatment 
sessions (5.2%). The 30-day perioperative mortality rate was 2.7%. The mean 
follow-up period was 20.3 months (range, 1-68 mo), with a median survival of 26 
months. The median survival was also estimated for different Okuda stages of 
disease: stage II (n = 26) versus stage III (n = 5) disease (32 vs 9 months; P 
<.05); patients with (n = 9) or without (n = 27) extrahepatic metastasis (10 vs 
26 months; P <.05); and patients with (n = 10) or without (n = 26) thrombosis of 
a segmental branch of the portal vein (7 versus 34 months [P <.005]).
CONCLUSION: TAE with use of cyanoacrylate and lipiodol for unresectable HCC is a 
feasible treatment modality. This retrospective report indicates beneficial 
effects on survival even in patients with advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)60010-4
PMID: 11788696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Med Oral. 2002 Jan-Feb;7(1):26-30, 31-5.

Oral manifestations and dental treatment in menopause.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Frutos R, Rodríguez S, Miralles-Jorda L, Machuca G.

Menopause is a physiological process typically occurring in the fifth decade of 
life in women, and involving permanent cessation of menstruation. Menopause is 
the consequence of hormonal changes that produce a series of general 
manifestations that have become increasingly important as a result of the 
increased female life expectancy in the industrialized world; indeed, such 
manifestations are observed throughout the last third of the female lifetime. 
However, oral symptoms are also found in addition to the more general 
manifestations of menopause (i.e., hot flush and psychological alterations). In 
this sense, an increased incidence is observed of dry mouth (xerostomia), 
disorders such as lichen planus, benign pemphigoid, Sjogren's syndrome and 
burning mouth syndrome, as well as a debated rise in the prevalence of 
periodontal disease. The dental treatment of such patients involves a series of 
particularities that should be taken into account, including the use of salivary 
secretion stimulators or saliva substitutes in cases of hyposialosis. 
Nevertheless, correct prevention, with good control of bacterial plaque, 
contributes to reduce the risk of many infections within the oral cavity.

PMID: 11788806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):1-8. doi: 10.1002/hec.667.

Decision validity should determine whether a generic or condition-specific HRQOL 
measure is used in health care decisions.

Dowie J(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Policy Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, Kepper Street, London WC1E 7HT, UK. jack.dowie@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):13-6; discussion 21-2.
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):17-9; discussion 21-2.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):9-12; discussion 21-2.

When a HRQOL measure is needed in health care decision making should it be a 
generic measure (a GEN), intended to cover the entire domain of health, a 
condition-specific measure (a CSM) intended to embrace those aspects of health 
associated with the condition concerned, or both? This paper proposes that it 
will never be appropriate to use both a CSM and a GEN for the same decision; 
that a GEN alone will probably be the appropriate measure in the majority of 
decisions; that a CSM alone will sometimes be appropriate; and that whether it 
is a GEN alone or a CSM alone that is appropriate depends entirely on the 
structure of the decision. The argument rests on the distinction between 
knowledge validity and decision validity. But it has a supplementary basis in 
rejection of the widespread (but unjustifiable) belief that CSMs are more 
"sensitive" or "responsive" than GENs and hence can detect "small but important 
changes" that GENs always or often miss.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.667
PMID: 11788974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):9-12; discussion 21-2. doi: 10.1002/hec.666.

Commentary on Jack Dowie, "Decision validity should determine whether a generic 
or condition-specific HRQOL measure is used in health care decisions".

Guyatt G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Health Sciences Center 
2C12, McMaster University, 1200 Main Street West, Hamilton, Ontario L8N 3Z5, 
Canada. guyatt@mcmaster.ca

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):1-8.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.666
PMID: 11788975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):13-6; discussion 21-2. doi: 10.1002/hec.670.

Commentary on Jack Dowie, "Decision validity should determine whether a generic 
or condition-specific HRQOL measure is used in health care decisions".

Feeny D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics, #1200, 10405 Jasper Avenue, Edmonton, Alberta 
T5J 3N4, Canada. dfeeny@pharmacy.ualberta.ca

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):1-8.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.670
PMID: 11788976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):17-9; discussion 21-2. doi: 10.1002/hec.669.

Measures of health-related quality of life in an imperfect world: a comment on 
Dowie.

Brazier J(1), Fitzpatrick R.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, The 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. 
j.e.brazier@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):1-8.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.669
PMID: 11788977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):43-53. doi: 10.1002/hec.643.

Measuring the social importance of concentration or dispersion of individual 
health benefits.

Rodríguez-Míguez E(1), Pinto-Prades JL.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía Aplicada, Facultad de Economía, Universidad de Vigo, 
Lagoas-Marcosende s/n, 36200 Vigo, Galicia, Spain. emiguez@uvigo.es

In this paper we address the importance of distributive preferences in the 
social valuation of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). We propose a social 
welfare function that generalises the functions traditionally used in the health 
economic literature. The novelty is that, depending on the individual health 
gains, this function can represent either preferences for concentrating or 
preferences for spreading total gain or both together, an issue which has not 
been addressed until now. Based on an experiment, we observe that this 
generalisation provides a suitable approximation to the sampled social 
preferences.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.643
PMID: 11788981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):55-70. doi: 10.1002/hec.642.

The distribution problem in economic evaluation: income and the valuation of 
costs and consequences of health care programmes.

Donaldson C(1), Birch S, Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Centre for Health and Policy Studies, University of 
Calgary, 2500 University Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4. 
cdonalds@ucalgary.edu

To date, a common view in the health economics literature is that the 
applicability of cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is limited, due to the distribution 
problem which underlies its main method of valuation (e.g. willingness to pay). 
One view is that cost effectiveness analysis (CEA) overcomes these problems. We 
show that the same distributional concerns apply to non-monetary valuations of 
health consequences, to measurement of costs and to the decision rules of CEA. 
Hence adopting CEA over CBA cannot be justified on the basis of "avoiding" 
distributional considerations. The implications of our results are discussed, 
including alternative strategies for the use of "income-based" research findings 
in social decision-making.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.642
PMID: 11788982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Health Econ. 2002 Jan;11(1):71-85. doi: 10.1002/hec.650.

The practicality and validity of directly elicited and SF-36 derived health 
state preferences in patients with low back pain.

Hollingworth W(1), Deyo RA, Sullivan SD, Emerson SS, Gray DT, Jarvik JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Primary Care, University of Cambridge, Robinson 
Way, Cambridge, CB2 2SR, UK. wh108@medschl.cam.ac.uk

Recent research has derived preference scores from the SF-36. We compare the 
practicality and construct validity of SF-36 derived preference scores with 
directly elicited time trade off (TTO) and visual analogue scale (VAS) scores. 
In this observational study, low back pain (LBP), patients were asked to 
complete disease specific, generic (SF-36), and health state preference (VAS and 
TTO) instruments. Baseline SF-36 responses were converted to preference scores 
using six published algorithms. Response rates for the SF-36 derived and TTO 
preference values were 354 of 379 (93%) and 303 of 379 (80%), respectively. 
Thirty patients were excluded from the TTO exercise because of difficulties 
comprehending the scaling task. Choice based methods (standard gamble, TTO) 
yielded higher and more uniform estimates of preference (0.77-0.79) than 
non-choice based methods (VAS) (0.42-0.70). Directly elicited TTO values were 
variable and had less power to distinguish among patients with differing 
severity of LBP. All SF-36 derived preferences exhibited a minimum threshold 
implying a potential floor effect for severely ill patients. SF-36 derived 
preferences demonstrated good practicality and construct validity in this 
setting, however different methods will yield disparate estimates of marginal 
benefit. This emphasises the need for a standardised algorithm for deriving 
SF-36 preference scores.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.650
PMID: 11788983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Harefuah. 2001 Dec;140(12):1209-12, 1227.

[Cheyne-Stokes breathing disorder in patients with congestive heart failure: 
incidence, pathophysiology, treatment and prognosis].

[Article in Hebrew]

Ingbir M(1), Freimark D, Adler Y.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Rehabilitation Institute, Heart Failure Unit, Sheba Medical Center, 
Tel Hashomer.

Cheyne-Stokes Respiration (CSR) is a breathing disorder characterized by 
recurrent central sleep apneas, mainly during sleep, alternating with a 
crescendo-decrescendo pattern of tidal volume. The pathophysiology of CSR, which 
involves both the cardiovascular system, the pulmonary system and the 
sympathetic nervous system, is still not well understood. Although it is well 
recognized that congestive heart failure (CHF) patients suffer from CSR, only in 
recent years have studies been undertaken in order to determine the prevalence 
of this phenomenon and its implications regarding the patients life expectancy 
and quality. In a few studies it was found that 50% of moderate to severe CHF 
patients suffer significant CSR and other studies suggested that CSR has a 
negative prognostic value upon CHF patients. In order to treat CSR, novel 
therapeutic approaches have been tried, including oxygen delivery during the 
night, various pharmacological treatments aiming to stabilize the ventilatory 
system and other pharmacological treatments aiming to improve the ejection 
fraction of the left ventricle. However, none of these treatments has proved to 
be adequately efficient. This review tries to summarize current knowledge 
regarding CSR pathophysiology, prevalence, prognostic implications and current 
available treatments.

PMID: 11789311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Epidemiol Prev. 2001 Jul-Oct;25(4-5):181-90.

[Open questions in the interpretation of daily time-series studies on air 
pollution and health. Part I: estimate of exposure].

[Article in Italian]

Lagorio S(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di igiene ambientale, Istituto superiore di sanità, Roma. 
lagorio@iss.it

This paper is a commentary to the MISA study (Meta-analysis of the Italian 
studies on short-term effects of air pollution). The interpretation of the 
relationships observed in the time-series analyses is not straightforward. I 
will review a number of open questions: the exposure estimates; the meaning of 
the daily mortality and hospitalisation rates, in terms of impact on life 
expectancy, incidence of specific diseases, exacerbation of pre-existing chronic 
diseases; the pattern of the estimated dose-response curves; the role of 
possible effect modifiers; the hypotheses about the underlying mechanisms. These 
interpretative problems often present overlapping aspects. Some of the pending 
answers are relevant for policy making. For editorial reasons this review is 
divided into two parts. This first paper focuses on the exposure estimates. The 
second part, to be published in the next issue of this journal, will deal with 
the meaning of the outcome variable, the shape of the dose-response curves, 
possible effect modifiers and underlying mechanisms.

PMID: 11789458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J La State Med Soc. 2001 Nov;153(11):559-64.

Ethical issues surrounding separation of conjoined twins.

Kohli N(1).

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, School of Medicine, New 
Orleans, USA.

Conjoined twins are a rare occurrence, with an incidence of about 1 in 250,000 
live births. Approximately 60% are stillborn. Though they can be joined at the 
hip, abdomen, chest, or head, the majority are joined at the chest, and share a 
heart. Although they are fascinating to the public, conjoined twins present 
complex and challenging ethical, medical, and legal issues to all of those 
involved in their care. Among the issues discussed here are: right to life, 
presumed consent, physician duty, quality of life, allocation of resources, and 
futile care. This paper also discusses the pros and cons of separation and then 
offers alternative solutions.

PMID: 11789859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Jan 15;136(2):99-110. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-136-2-200201150-00007.

Initial evaluation of rectal bleeding in young persons: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Lewis JD(1), Brown A, Localio AR, Schwartz JS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Blockley Hall, 9th Floor, 
423 Guardian Drive, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6021, USA.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Jan 15;136(2):I30.

BACKGROUND: Evaluation of rectal bleeding in young patients is a frequent 
diagnostic challenge.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative 
diagnostic strategies for young patients with rectal bleeding.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: Probability estimates were based on published medical literature. 
Cost estimates were based on Medicare reimbursement rates and published medical 
literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Persons 25 to 45 years of age with otherwise asymptomatic 
rectal bleeding.
TIME HORIZON: The patient's lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Modified societal perspective.
INTERVENTIONS: Diagnostic strategies included no evaluation, colonoscopy, 
flexible sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, anoscopy, or any feasible combination of 
these procedures.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and costs.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: For 35-year-old patients, the no-evaluation 
strategy yielded the least life expectancy. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
of flexible sigmoidoscopy compared with no evaluation or with any strategy 
incorporating anoscopy (followed by further evaluation if no anal disease was 
found on anoscopy) was less than $5300 per year of life gained. A strategy of 
flexible sigmoidoscopy plus barium enema yielded the greatest life expectancy, 
with an incremental cost of $23 918 per additional life-year gained compared 
with flexible sigmoidoscopy alone.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: As patient age at presentation of rectal 
bleeding increased, evaluation of the entire colon became more cost-effective. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness of flexible sigmoidoscopy plus barium enema 
compared with colonoscopy was sensitive to estimates of the sensitivity of the 
tests. In a probabilistic sensitivity analysis comparing flexible sigmoidoscopy 
with anoscopy followed by flexible sigmoidoscopy if needed, the middle 95th 
percentile of the distribution of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
ranged from flexible sigmoidoscopy yielding an increased life expectancy at 
reduced cost to $52 158 per year of life gained (mean, $11 461 per year of life 
saved).
CONCLUSIONS: Evaluation of the colon of persons 25 to 45 years of age with 
otherwise asymptomatic rectal bleeding increases the life expectancy at a cost 
comparable to that of colon cancer screening.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-136-2-200201150-00007
PMID: 11790061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Cardiol Rev. 2002 Jan-Feb;10(1):51-60. doi:
10.1097/00045415-200201000-00010.

Postmenopausal women and cardiovascular risk: impact of hormone replacement 
therapy.
