
Rosano GM(1), Fini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, San Raffaele-Tosinvest Sanità, Rome, Italy.

The increased life expectancy of women living in industrialized countries is 
associated with an increase in diseases dependent or facilitated by a state of 
estrogen deficiency, such as cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. 
Several studies have shown that estrogen replacement therapy reduces the 
occurrence of coronary and, perhaps, of cerebrovascular disease by nearly 50% in 
treated women compared with nonusers. These findings are supported by the 
evidence that estrogens have a beneficial effect on cholesterol metabolism and 
deposition, with contribution to the inhibition of atherosclerotic plaque 
formation in arterial walls and a direct effect on the vessel wall. In some 
cases, progestins may counteract the beneficial effect of estrogens on 
cardiovascular functions. More androgenic progestins may have a detrimental 
effect on vascular reactivity, whereas less androgenic progestins do not seem to 
reduce the beneficial effect of estrogens. Case-control and cohort studies have 
shown that estrogen progestin therapy is associated with a significant reduction 
in cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. The HERS study has added critical 
data about the cardioprotective effect of hormone replacement therapy in elderly 
women with proven coronary artery disease. However, HERS results are not 
applicable to the population of women commonly prescribed hormone replacement 
therapy, because the data have been gathered in a population of patients 
infrequently prescribed with this therapy. Large-scale, randomized studies are 
evaluating the effect of estrogen and estrogen-progestin replacement therapy on 
cardiovascular events in less compromised menopausal women. Until completion of 
these studies, hormone replacement therapy in women with increased 
cardiovascular risk should be viewed with neither enthusiasm nor fear.

DOI: 10.1097/00045415-200201000-00010
PMID: 11790270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Menopause. 2002 Jan-Feb;9(1):1-2. doi: 10.1097/00042192-200201000-00001.

Is progestogen supplementation of ERT really necessary?

Naftolin F, Silver D.

Comment on
    Menopause. 2002 Jan-Feb;9(1):6-15.

DOI: 10.1097/00042192-200201000-00001
PMID: 11791079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Urol Clin North Am. 2001 Nov;28(4):839-48. doi:
10.1016/s0094-0143(01)80039-2.

Cavermap-assisted sural nerve interposition graft during radical prostatectomy.

Canto EI(1), Nath RK, Slawin KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.

Wide excision of the neurovascular bundle and interposition nerve grafting of 
the cavernous nerves when there is suspected extracapsular extension at the 
posterolateral prostatic margin are logical applications of improved 
understanding of pelvic neuroanatomy. Although the indications for neurovascular 
bundle excision will remain controversial for the foreseeable future, evidence 
suggests that neurovascular bundle excision improves cancer control in some 
patients. The ability to predict extracapsular extension reliably at the 
neurovascular bundle would be a powerful addition to the urologist's 
armamentarium. The authors have shown, as proof of principle in bilaterally 
resected neurovascular bundle at the time of RRP, that sural nerve grafting can 
restore erectile function. The authors' data also support a role for sural nerve 
grafting in unilateral neurovascular bundle excision. Although the side effects 
of sural nerve harvest are minor, the ability to predict preoperatively which 
patients will benefit from such grafts would reduce the number of failures. The 
success of the authors' interposition nerve-grafting project has resulted, in 
part, from the use of a multidisciplinary team approach that includes 
experienced oncologic surgeons and a plastic surgeon with extensive 
microsurgical and nerve-grafting experience. The technique for sural nerve 
grafting described herein gives urologists an additional tool to improve 
patients' quality of life without compromising the chances of success in 
treating prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-0143(01)80039-2
PMID: 11791500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. N Y Times Web. 2000 Mar 7:F4.

Arguments over life and the need for death.

Wade N.

PMID: 11791609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jan 22;99(2):838-43. doi:
10.1073/pnas.022631999.  Epub 2002 Jan 15.

Life extension in Drosophila by feeding a drug.

Kang HL(1), Benzer S, Min KT.

Author information:
(1)Neurogenetics Branch, MSC1250, 10/3B12, National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

We report that feeding Drosophila throughout adulthood with 4-phenylbutyrate 
(PBA) can significantly increase lifespan, without diminution of locomotor 
vigor, resistance to stress, or reproductive ability. Treatment for a limited 
period, either early or late in adult life, is also effective. Flies fed PBA 
show a global increase in histone acetylation as well as a dramatically altered 
pattern of gene expression, including induction or repression of numerous genes. 
The delay in aging may result from the altered physiological state.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.022631999
PMCID: PMC117392
PMID: 11792861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Rev Med Interne. 2001 Dec;22 Suppl 3:367s-373s.

[Cystic fibrosis in adulthood].

[Article in French]

Durieu I(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre mucoviscidose, service de médecine interne, pavillon Giraud 1 K, 69495 
Pierre-Bénite, France. isabelle.durieu@chu-lyon.fr

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations of 
the CFTR gene. The number of adult CF patients increased dramatically, since 
life expectancy is now around thirty years. CF is usually a pediatric disease. 
In adult patients the disease associate a diffuse bronchectasia with chronic 
colonisation of sputum with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and pancreatic 
insufficiency. Mortality is usually related to respiratory insufficiency. One 
third of adult patients develop diabetes mellitus. A diagnosis of CF can be made 
in adult patients particularly when it exists male infertility with congenital 
absence of vas deferens, chronic sinusitis or diffuse bronchectasia or chronic 
pancreatitis, acute and recurrent pancreatitis, allergic bronchopulmonary 
aspergillosis. The diagnosis is established with positive sweat chloride 
concentration, or double CFTR mutations and/or other suggestive organ 
involvement.

PMID: 11794881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Rev Med Interne. 2001 Dec;22(12):1196-203. doi:
10.1016/s0248-8663(01)00491-x.

[Primary pulmonary hypertension in human immunodeficiency virus infection. Study 
of 9 cases amd review of the literature].

[Article in French]

Le Houssine P(1), Karmochkine M, Ledru F, Batisse D, Piketty C, Kazatchkine MD, 
Weiss L.

Author information:
(1)Service d'immunologie clinique, hôpital européen Georges-Pompidou, 20, rue 
Leblanc, 75908 Paris, France.

PURPOSE: In medical literature, primary pulmonary hypertension occurs in 0.5% of 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients, irrespective of the stage 
of the HIV disease, and is more frequent in drug users. Plexogenic arteriopathy 
is the most frequent histological lesion.
METHODS: We retrospectively report on nine cases of primary pulmonary 
hypertension during HIV infection.
RESULTS: The subjects were four women and five men, mean age 38 years old. Four 
of them had been sexually contaminated and five had contracted the disease 
through intravenous drug use. At the time primary pulmonary hypertension was 
diagnosed, mean CD4 cell count was 234 +/- 217/mm3 and the viral load was low or 
undetectable. Primary pulmonary hypertension has been diagnosed an average of 7 
months after the first cardiovascular clinical signs had started. Despite 
anti-coagulant (7/9 cases), vasodilatator (4/9 cases) and/or diuretic (7/9 
cases) therapy, the progression of the disease quickly turned out to be negative 
(seven deaths).
CONCLUSION: Diagnosis of primary pulmonary hypertension should be considered 
when unexplained dyspnea occurs in an HIV-positive patient. At initial 
evaluation, alterations of hemodynamic parameters are usually less severe than 
during idiopathic primary pulmonary hypertension, but their progression is 
quicker and more severe, independent of the patient's immune status. Current 
data do not allow the determination of whether antiretroviral therapy is active 
in primary pulmonary hypertension evolution. Therapeutic evaluation with 
prostacyclin is currently being carried out. While the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients extends, primary pulmonary hypertension occurrence could 
increase and call for early diagnosis, thus allowing for specific care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0248-8663(01)00491-x
PMID: 11794890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2001 Nov;94(11):1173-9.

[Functional mitral insufficiency: a neglected vascular lesion?].

[Article in French]

Ennezat PV(1), Logeart D, Lachmann J, LeJemtel TH, Cohen-Solal A.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital Beaujon, 100, bd Général-Leclerc, 92110 
Clichy, France.

Functional mitral regurgitation is usually neglected during the course of 
dilated cardiomyopathies. However, functional mitral regurgitation is a 
sensitive marker of decreased survival. Recent development of treatments such as 
new surgical approach, permanent biventricular pacing and beta-blockade therapy 
lead to assess and treat more specifically the accompanying functional mitral 
regurgitation in congestive heart failure.

PMID: 11794985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Adv Intern Med. 2001;47:137-57.

Screening strategies in gastroesophageal reflux disease: early identification of 
esophageal carcinoma.

Shaheen NJ(1), Provenzale D.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, UNC Hospitals, Chapel Hill, 
NC, USA.

PMID: 11795073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2001 Apr;928:1-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05631.x.

Aging: overview.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha 
68198-4635, USA. dharman@unmc.edu

Aging is a universal process that began with the origination of life about 3.5 
billion years ago. Accumulation of the diverse deleterious changes produced by 
aging throughout the cells and tissues progressively impairs function and can 
eventually cause death. Aging changes can be attributed to development, genetic 
defects, the environment, disease, and an inborn process--the aging process. The 
chance of death at a given age serves as a measure of the average number of 
aging changes accumulated by persons of that age, that is, of physiologic age, 
and the rate of change of this measure as the rate of aging. Chances for death 
are decreased by improvements in general living conditions. As a result, during 
the past two millennia average life expectancy at birth (ALE-B), determined by 
the chances for death, of humans has risen from 30 years, in ancient Rome, to 
almost 80 years today in the developed countries. Chances for death in the 
developed countries are now near limiting values and ALE-Bs are approaching 
plateau values that are 6-9 years less than the potential maximum of about 85 
years. Chances for death are now largely determined by the inherent aging 
process after age 28. Only 1.1% of female cohorts in Sweden die before this age; 
the remainder die off at an exponentially increasing rate with advancing age. 
The inherent aging process limits ALE-B to around 85 years, and the maximum life 
span (MLS) to about 122 years. Past efforts to increase ALE-B did not require an 
understanding of aging. Such knowledge will be necessary in the future to 
significantly increase ALE-B and MLS, and to satisfactorily ameliorate the 
medical, economic, and social problems associated with advancing age. The many 
theories advanced to account for aging should be used, to the extent it is 
feasible, to help with these important practical problems, including 
applications of the free radical theory of aging. Past measures evolved by 
societies to ensure adequate care for older individuals are rapidly becoming 
inadequate because of changes in life style, the growing percentage of older 
people, declining fertility rates, and the diminishing size of the work forces 
to provide for the elderly. Measures are being advanced to help with this 
problem. Prospects are bright for further increases in the span of functional 
life and improvements in the lives of the elderly.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05631.x
PMID: 11795501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2001 Apr;928:113-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05641.x.

DNA polymerase-beta may be the main player for defective DNA repair in aging rat 
neurons.

Rao KS(1), Annapurna VV, Raji NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad, 
India. ksrsl@uohyd.ernet.in

A close relationship between the DNA repair potential of various organisms and 
their rate of aging has been long suspected. We have been looking into the steps 
of the DNA repair process in isolated neurons from rats of different ages. 
Unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) was low in aging neurons, and also the response 
of these cells to raise their DNA repair capacity against a mutagenic challenge 
was poor. Attempts to identify the possible defective locus in the overall DNA 
repair pathways indicated that the step involving DNA polymerase may be 
defective. The activity of DNA polymerase-beta, the most predominant DNA 
polymerase in neurons that is generally considered to be a short-patch repair 
enzyme, shows a significant decrease in aging neurons. Northern and Southern 
blotting and immunotitration experiments suggest that there may be an 
accumulation of inactive beta polymerase molecules in the aging rat brain. Most 
recent preliminary studies reveal significant 3'-5' exonuclease activity in rat 
neurons at all ages. However, extension of a primer in a synthetic oligo duplex, 
either with a mismatch or correct base pair at the 3' end of the primer, was low 
in neurons of any age and was very poor (almost undetectable) in older ones. 
Supplementation of neuronal extracts with pure polymerase enzyme revealed that 
only polymerase beta, but not polymerase alpha, was able to increase the primer 
extension activity significantly in old neurons. These findings are taken to 
indicate an age-dependent decline in the DNA repair capacity of neurons and that 
DNA polymerase beta is a key player in the DNA repair mechanisms of nerve cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05641.x
PMID: 11795502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2001 Apr;928:296-304. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05659.x.

Calorie restriction enhances the expression of key metabolic enzymes associated 
with protein renewal during aging.

Spindler SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA. 
spindler@ucrac1.ucr.edu

Our studies show that dietary caloric restriction (CR) alters the expression of 
key metabolic enzymes in a manner consistent with an increased rate of 
extrahepatic protein turnover and renewal during aging. Of the key hepatic 
gluconeogenic enzyme genes affected by CR, glucose 6-phosphatase mRNA increased 
1.7- and 2.3-fold in young and old CR mice. Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 
mRNA increased 2-fold in young mice, and its mRNA and activity increased 2.5- 
and 1.7-fold in old mice. These changes indicate that CR enhances the enzymatic 
capacity for gluconeogenesis. The carbon required for gluconeogenesis appears to 
be generated from peripheral protein turnover. Muscle glutamine synthetase mRNA 
increased 1.3- and 2.1-fold in young and old CR mice, suggesting increased 
disposal of nitrogen and carbon derived from protein catabolism for energy. mRNA 
for the key liver nitrogen disposal enzymes glutaminase, carbamyl phosphate 
synthase I, and tyrosine aminotransferase were increased by 2.4-, 1.8-, and 
1.8-fold in CR mice. Consistent with increased hepatic nitrogen disposal, 
hepatic glutamine synthetase mRNA and activity were each decreased about 40% in 
CR mice. Together, these and our other published data suggest that CR enhances 
and maintains protein turnover, and thus protein renewal, into old age. These 
effects are likely to resist the well-documented decline in whole body protein 
renewal with age. Enhanced renewal may reduce the level of damaged and toxic 
proteins that accumulate during aging, contributing to the extension of life 
span by CR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05659.x
PMID: 11795521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Mar 15;123(5):481-90. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00356-6.

Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive astrocytes in developing rat 
hippocampus.

Catalani A(1), Sabbatini M, Consoli C, Cinque C, Tomassoni D, Azmitia E, 
Angelucci L, Amenta F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Fisiologia Umana e Farmacologia, Università La Sapienza, P. 
le. A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy. catalani@uniroma1.it

The developmental pattern of glial fibrillary acidic protein 
(GFAP)-immunoreactive astrocytes was investigated in the hippocampus (subfields 
CA1, CA3 and CA4) and in the dentate gyrus of male and female rats aged 11, 16, 
30, 90 and 150 days by immunohistochemistry associated with image analysis. 
Analysis was centred on stratum radiatum, a hippocampal area rich in 
GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes. The volume of different portions of hippocampus, 
the number and the size of astrocytes, the intensity of cell body GFAP 
immunostaining as well as the extension of astrocyte were assessed. A maturation 
pattern consisting in higher cellular expression of GFAP, an increase in overall 
cell size and expanding arborisation from the 11th to the 30th postnatal day, 
followed by stabilisation of these parameters until the 90th day of life, and a 
subsequent decrease in the oldest age group studied was found. A sex-related 
different temporal pattern of astrocytes maturation in size and GFAP content was 
observed in the CA1 subfield only. The increase of GFAP content during 
pre-weaning ages was less pronounced in females than in males as well as the 
decrease between the 90th and the 150th day of age. Moreover, the size of 
astrocytes was larger in females than in males at the 11th and 150th days of 
life. These findings suggest that hippocampal astrocytes undergo rapid 
maturation in the 1st month of postnatal life, followed by a slow consolidation 
of this process until the 3rd month of life. At 5 months of age, there are still 
dynamic changes in the mature astrocytes, which become slender and thinner 
probably as a response to the increased volume of hippocampus noticeable at this 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00356-6
PMID: 11796133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2002 Feb;92(2):679-84. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00267.2001.

Vastus lateralis fatigue alters recruitment of musculus quadriceps femoris in 
humans.

Akima H(1), Foley JM, Prior BM, Dudley GA, Meyer RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), The University of Tokyo, 
Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. akima@u-tokyo.ac.jp

This study tested the hypothesis that fatigue of a single member of musculus 
quadriceps femoris (QF) would alter use of the other three muscles during knee 
extension exercise (KEE). Six men performed KEE with the left QF at a load equal 
to 50% of the 4 x 10 repetitions maximum. Subsequently, electromyostimulation 
(EMS), intended to stimulate and fatigue the left m. vastus lateralis (VL), was 
applied for 30 min. Immediately after EMS, subjects repeated the KEE. Transverse 
relaxation time (T2)-weighted magnetic resonance images were taken before and 
after each bout of KEE and at 3 and 30 min of EMS to assess use and stimulation, 
respectively, of the QF. T2 of each of the QF muscles was increased 8-13% after 
the first KEE. During EMS, T2 increased (P < 0.05) even more in VL (10%), 
whereas it decreased (P < 0.05) to pre-KEE levels in m. vastus medials (VM) and 
m. rectus femoris (RF). The VL and, to some extent, the m. vastus intermedius 
were stimulated, whereas the VM and RF were not, thereby recovering from the 
first bout of KEE. Isometric torque, initially 30% of maximal voluntary, was 
reduced to 13% at 3 min and 7% at 30 min. T2 was greater (P < 0.05) after the 
second than the first bout of KEE, especially the increase for the VM and RF. 
These results suggest that subjects were able to perform the second bout with 
little contribution of the VL by greater use of the other QF muscles. The 
simplest explanation is increased central command to the QF such that the 
intended act could be accomplished despite acute fatigue of one of its 
synergists.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00267.2001
PMID: 11796681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Cancer Radiother. 2001 Nov;5 Suppl 1:149s-161s.

[Management of ovarian cancer].

[Article in French]

Dauplat J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre Jean-Perrin, Centre de lutte contre le cancer, 58, rue Montalembert, 
BP 392, 63011 Clermont-Ferrand, France. jacques.dauplat@cjp.u-clermont1.fr

Ovarian carcinoma is the worst gynecologic cancer due to an advanced stage at 
diagnosis in two thirds of the cases. Advanced stages are usually characterized 
by a large tumor burden on the ovaries as well as metastatic disease in the 
peritoneal cavity. Early stages are more common in young women and the surgical 
treatment should comprise the tumor excision and a comprehensive abdominal 
staging to be sure that there is no extension beyond the ovaries--unilateral 
oophorectomy can preserve the fertility before childbearing. No treatment is 
needed after surgery in stage I without poor prognostic factors. Adjuvant 
chemotherapy should be applied postoperatively in the other cases. The best 
likelihood of prolonged survival is observed after optimal debulking surgery and 
chemotherapy in advanced stages. If possible surgery should be performed at 
first but in most advanced stage with large tumor volume in the upper abdomen 
according to clinical and CT-scan examination, the concept of chemosurgical 
debulking should be considered. Interval surgery underwent after three or four 
courses of front line chemotherapy but this strategy should be further evaluated 
by clinical trials. Currently paraplatin associated with paclitaxel is the most 
commonly used regimen due to its effectiveness and lower toxicity. In a near 
future progress can be expected with new protocols. Thank to aggressive surgery 
and chemotherapy many patients should be able to reach a complete remission of 
their disease but most of them will still die of recurrent disease. At this 
point, two questions should be answered: 1) how to manage the residual abdominal 
disease in order to prevent the recurrence. No consolidation treatment 
demonstrated any superiority but the French experience and trial with high dose 
chemotherapy supported by autologous stem cells transplantation showed recently 
positive results? 2) How to manage the recurrent disease with sometime 
indication for secondary surgical debulking and always chemotherapy? This is the 
field for testing new drugs or new strategies. A large number of patients should 
enter clinical trials in order to answer these questions and due to the very 
poor prognosis of this disease large attention should be given to the quality of 
life of theses patients.

PMID: 11797275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Ther Umsch. 2001 Dec;58(12):713-7. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.58.12.713.

[Resection of liver metastases--goal, timing and results].

[Article in German]

Yedibela S(1), Reck T, Hohenberger W.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg. 
syedibela@hotmail.com

If left to run their natural course, numerous malignant diseases will eventually 
produce liver metastases. Without treatment, afflicted patients have a life 
expectancy of only eight months. At the present time, the only therapeutic 
option that offers the patient with liver metastases from colorectal carcinoma 
the chance of a cure is resection of the metastases. Depending on the primary 
tumour, this also applies to some patients with carcinomas at sites other than 
the colorectum. A point of continuing controversy is the timing of such 
resection. While some authors recommend a test 'of time' ranging from several 
weeks to months, others call for resection of the metastases immediately after 
their detection. Solitary synchronous liver metastases involving only a single 
segment can be resected at the same time as surgical treatment of the primary 
when, in particular, the surgical access is readily possible and the risk of 
complications calculable. Most authors advocate surgery in two sessions. The 
location, number and size of the metastases, together with the presence of 
concomitant diseases, provide the basis for the decision to perform a resection. 
At the same time, however, the risk to the patient must be within justifiable 
limits. This applies in particular to non-colorectal, non-endocrine metastases. 
Following curative resection of colorectal hepatic metastases, 25-51% of the 
patients are still alive after 5 years. During the same period, some 51-76% of 
the patients develop a recurrence. From these data, the calculated resulting 
median survival for all patients undergoing resection is roughly 30 months. A 
tumour-free 5-year survival rate of up to 34% is achieved. In view of their 
different clinical course and prognosis, non-colorectal liver metastases should 
be classified into non-colorectal neuroendocrine (NCNE) and non-colorectal 
non-endocrine (NCNN) metastases. While the former group has a 5-year survival 
rate following curative resection of up to 62%, the figure for the latter group 
is only 15-35%.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.58.12.713
PMID: 11797533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):48-9.

Comparative efficiency of national health systems. Methodological problems were 
understated.

Segall M.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2001 Aug 11;323(7308):307-10.

PMID: 11797640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. BMJ. 2002 Jan 5;324(7328):49.

Comparative efficiency of national health systems. To improve health care 
system's performance, drink red wine.

Bonneux L.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2001 Aug 11;323(7308):307-10.

PMID: 11797642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. IUBMB Life. 2001 Sep-Nov;52(3-5):113-8. doi: 10.1080/15216540152845902.

VDAC channels.

Blachly-Dyson E(1), Forte M.

Author information:
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland 97201, USA.

Trafficking of metabolites across the outer mitochondrial membrane is believed 
to be mediated primarily by the pore-forming voltage-dependent anion channel, 
VDAC (also known as mitochondrial porin). An expanding body of in vitro studies 
have strongly suggest that the pore formed by VDAC can be regulated in a number 
of ways that implicate it as a site for the regulation of mitochondrial 
function, yet technical limitations have prevented the extension these studies 
to a relevant cellular context. The goal of this brief review is to summarize 
recent data that examine the role of VDAC and its regulation in the context not 
of the isolated protein or organelles but in cells, focusing on the application 
of genetic strategies in a number of experimental systems.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540152845902
PMID: 11798022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Risk Anal. 2001 Oct;21(5):843-57. doi: 10.1111/0272-4332.215156.

Air pollution and mortality: quantification and valuation of years of life lost.

Leksell I(1), Rabl A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Environmental Science, University of Göteborg, Sweden.

To analyze the loss of life expectancy (LLE) due to air pollution and the 
associated social cost, a dynamic model was developed that took into account the 
decrease of risk after the termination of an exposure to pollution. A key 
parameter was the time constant for the decrease of risk, for which estimates 
from studies of smoking were used. A sensitivity analysis showed that the 
precise value of the time constant(s) was not critical for the resulting LLE. An 
interesting aspect of the model was that the relation between population total 
LLE and PM2.5 concentration was numerically almost indistinguishable from a 
straight line, even though the functional dependence was nonlinear. This 
essentially linear behavior implies that the detailed history of a change in 
concentration does not matter, except for the effects of discounting. This model 
was used to correct the data of the largest study of chronic mortality for 
variations in past exposure, performed by Pope et al. in 1995; the correction 
factor was shown to depend on assumptions about the relative toxicity of the 
components of PM2.5. In the European Union, an increment of 1 microg/m3 of PM2.5 
for 1 year implies an average LLE of 0.22 days per person. With regard to the 
social cost of an air pollution pulse, it was found that for typical discount 
rates (3% to 8% real) the cost was reduced by a factor of about 0.4 to 0.6 
relative to the case with zero discount rate, if the value of a life year was 
taken as given; if the value of a life year was calculated from the "value of 
statistical life" by assuming the latter as a series of discounted annual 
values, the cost varied by at most +/-20% relative to the case with zero 
discount rate. To assess the uncertainties, this study also examined how the LLE 
depended on the demographics (mortality and age pyramid) of a population, and 
how it would change if the relative risk varied with age, in the manner 
suggested by smoking studies. These points were found to have a relatively small 
effect (compared to the epidemiological uncertainties) on the calculated LLE.

DOI: 10.1111/0272-4332.215156
PMID: 11798121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Caries Res. 2001 Nov-Dec;35(6):458-63. doi: 10.1159/000047490.

Clinical investigation of two glass-ionomer restoratives used with the 
atraumatic restorative treatment approach in China: two-years results.

Lo EC(1), Luo Y, Fan MW, Wei SH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. 
hrdplcm@hkucc.hku.hk

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical performance of two glass-ionomer cements, 
ChemFlex (Dentsply DeTrey) and Fuji IX GP (GC), when used with the atraumatic 
restorative treatment (ART) approach in China.
METHODS: Eighty-nine school children aged between 6 and 14 years who had 
bilateral matched pairs of carious posterior teeth were included. A split-mouth 
design was used in which the two materials were randomly placed on contralateral 
sides. The performance of the restorations was assessed directly and also 
indirectly from die-stone replicas at baseline and after 6, 12, and 24 months.
RESULTS: The 24-month cumulative survival rates of ART restorations in the 
primary teeth were 93 and 90% for the ChemFlex and Fuji IX GP class I 
restorations, respectively, while 40 and 46% of class II restorations placed 
with the respective materials were satisfactory. In the permanent dentition, 
only class I restorations were involved and the cumulative survival rates were 
95 and 96% for ChemFlex and Fuji IX GP. For the primary teeth after 24 months, 
net mean occlusal wear was 87 microm for ChemFlex and 85 microm for Fuji IX GP. 
The occlusal wear in the permanent teeth was 75 microm for ChemFlex and 79 
microm for Fuji IX GP.
CONCLUSION: The clinical performance of both materials over a 24-month period 
was similar and the survival rates of class I ART restorations in both primary 
and permanent teeth were high.

DOI: 10.1159/000047490
PMID: 11799287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2001;3(3):125-34. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00132.x.

Implant-supported fixed prostheses for the rehabilitation of periodontally 
compromised dentitions: a 3-year prospective clinical study.

Yi SW(1), Ericsson I, Kim CK, Carlsson GE, Nilner K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, College of Dentistry, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
South Korea.

BACKGROUND: The application of a strict hygiene maintenance care protocol 
following rehabilitation of periodontally compromised dentitions by means of 
tooth-supported fixed partial dentures has demonstrated excellent long-term 
treatment outcome.
PURPOSE: A clinical and radiographic study was performed to document and 
evaluate the short- and medium-term result of occlusal rehabilitation by means 
of implant-supported fixed prostheses (ISFPs) in patients treated for advanced 
periodontal disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-three consecutive patients were included. All 
patients were referred because of advanced periodontal disease. Before the 
implant therapy was initiated, periodontal treatment was performed and the 
outcome evaluated during at least a 6-month period. An individual maintenance 
care program was designed for each patient. All 125 implants were placed using a 
two-stage surgical approach. Following installation of the ISFPs, all patients 
underwent a baseline examination including evaluation of oral hygiene, 
periodontal or peri-implant conditions, and radiographs. These examinations were 
repeated annually during the 3-year observation period.
RESULTS: No single implant was lost during the 3-year follow-up period. The 
percentages of plaque-harboring surfaces and bleeding units on probing were 
found to be low (< 10%), and no soft-tissue complications were recorded. The 
mean marginal bone resorption during the observation period amounted to 0.21 mm. 
In a few patients, apposition of marginal bone was observed. Bone loss amounting 
to 0.5 mm or less was found around 81% of the implants (101/125 implants). The 
amount of bone loss around the remaining 24 implants (19%) varied between 0.5 
and 2.0 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: The present clinical trial demonstrates that, at least during a 
3-year period, the ISFP is an acceptable and predictable treatment option for 
rehabilitation in patients who have lost their teeth because of periodontal 
disease. This observation seems to be valid in edentulous and partially dentate 
jaws. A prerequisite to reach such a favorable treatment outcome is possibly the 
combination of the strict maintenance care program and the careful design of the 
ISFPs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00132.x
PMID: 11799702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Am Coll Surg. 2002 Jan;194(1 Suppl):S74-8. doi:
10.1016/s1072-7515(01)01102-4.

The evolution of Z stent-based stent-grafts for endovascular aneurysm repair: a 
life-table analysis of 7.5-year followup.

Resch T(1), Malina M, Lindblad B, Ivancev K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Malmö University Hospital, Lund University, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to analyze the impact of stent-graft 
design and operator skills on outcomes after endovascular abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.
STUDY DESIGN: One hundred sixty-four patients (mean age 71 years) underwent 
stent-graft repair. Patients were treated with four different types of 
stent-graft: first-generation (n = 58) and second-generation (n = 17) 
Ivancev-Malmö monoiliac stent-grafts (IM I and IM II, respectively) combined 
with femoral-femoral crossover, Chuter bifurcated stent-graft (n = 15), and the 
Zenith stent-graft (n = 74). Patients underwent digital subtraction angiography 
and contrast CT preoperatively and were then followed with CT scans 
postoperatively. Recently, followup was changed to CT scanning at 1 month and 1 
year postoperatively and annually thereafter. Ultrasonographic duplex scanning 
substitutes in the remaining followup. Changes in aneurysm diameters and 
occurrence of endoleaks were recorded. Short- and midterm mortality and 
complications and postoperative secondary interventions were recorded, and 
life-table analysis for intervention-free stent-graft survival was calculated.
RESULTS: Immediate and late conversions and 30-day mortality were reduced for 
second- (IM II and Zenith) compared with first-generation stent-grafts (IM I and 
Chuter). Stent-graft migrations occurred only with the IM I and Chuter 
stent-grafts. Type I endoleak was significantly more common in first-generation 
stent-grafts. First-generation stent-grafts required significantly more 
secondary interventions than second-generation stent-grafts up to 30 months 
postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: Enhanced stent-graft design has improved the probability of 
stent-graft success after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. Better 
technical skills and increased use of intraoperative adjunctive procedures may 
also have contributed to improved results.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(01)01102-4
PMID: 11800358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Resuscitation. 2002 Jan;52(1):23-9. doi: 10.1016/s0300-9572(01)00430-0.

Estimated cost effectiveness of a police automated external defibrillator 
program in a suburban community: 7 years experience.

Forrer CS(1), Swor RA, Jackson RE, Pascual RG, Compton S, McEachin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, William Beaumont Hospital, 3601 W. 13 Mile 
Road., Royal Oak, MI 48073, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of a 7-year police automatic 
external defibrillator (AED) program in four suburban communities.
METHOD: 10-year retrospective study (7/89-7/99) of patients of four suburban 
communities during two study periods: (1) police first response and advanced 
life support (ALS) care (No-AED) and; (2) AED equipped police first response 
(P-AED) with subsequent ALS care. Using the perspective of the communities, we 
obtained costs of AED program from police agencies. We estimated cost/life saved 
and cost/year lives saved using decreased time to VF shock by EMS. We performed 
a sensitivity analysis for estimates of potential benefit using estimated 
improved survival as a result of decreased EMS response interval and obtained 
survival data. We used literature-based estimates of life expectancy after 
cardiac arrest survival to estimate cost/year life saved. We used student's 
t-test and chi(2) to estimate differences between groups.
RESULTS: During the 10-year study period 208 patients met study criteria; (81 
No-AED, 128 P-AED). The two groups were not different by patient age, ALS 
response interval, percent in VF, percent witnessed (WIT), or arrest location. 
Interval to first defibrillator equipped EMS vehicle arrival was less in the 
P-AED group (2.0 vs. 5.4 min, P<0.001) as was the interval from the emergency 
(911) call to first VF shock (6.6 vs. 8.4 min, P=0.02). Survival to DC was not 
statistically different with P-AED (11.9 vs. 9.9%, P=0.66) but this study was 
not powered to detect a difference. Estimated cost per life saved with P-AED 
varied from $23542 to $70342 and cost per year life saved ranged from $1582 to 
$16060.
CONCLUSION: Police AED appears to be a cost-effective intervention in these 
suburban communities which have relatively rapid EMS response intervals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-9572(01)00430-0
PMID: 11801345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Haematologica. 2002 Jan;87(1):9-16.

Detection of risk groups in myelodysplastic syndromes. A multicenter study.

Belli C(1), Acevedo S, Bengio R, Arrossagaray G, Watman N, Rossi N, García J, 
Flores G, Goldztein S, Larripa I.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Hematológicas Martino R. Castex, Academia 
Nacional de Medicina, Pacheco de Melo 3081, CP 1425, Capital Federal, Argentina. 
lacuteci@intramed.net.ar

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) comprise a group of 
heterogeneous hematologic disorders with risk of leukemic evolution (LE). The 
French-American-British (FAB) co-operative group classifies them into five 
morphologic entities and the International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) 
proposes four groups of risk on the basis of clinical and cytogenetic variables. 
The aim of this study was to evaluate the application of the IPSS in our 
Argentine population, to test the prognostic value of its variables and to 
determine whether this score helps to associate prognostic subgroups of risk 
into FAB subtypes.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Two hundred and thirty-four patients with primary MDS and a 
median follow-up of 28 months were evaluated using univariate analyses to 
determine median survival (SV) and the time to LE. The variables analyzed were 
FAB classification, IPSS, percentage of myeloblasts, cytogenetic groups of risk 
and number of cytopenias.
RESULTS: Univariate analyses showed that all variables analyzed were predictive 
for SV and for LE in our MDS population. Application of the IPSS allowed 
discrimination into the 4 groups of risk and helped to identify prognostic 
subclasses among the FAB classification, associating 5%, 15% and 19% of cases 
with worse prognosis within the FAB classification of refractory anemia (RA), RA 
with ringed sideroblasts and RA with excess of blasts (RAEB), respectively. The 
IPSS was not informative for RAEB in transformation cases and would not be 
applied to patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This score could be applied to our MDS 
population, showing no geographic differences. Stratification of FAB patients 
according to IPSS would be helpful to develop risk-adapted therapeutic 
strategies.

PMID: 11801460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Haematologica. 2002 Jan;87(1):52-8.

Standard versus alternative myeloablative conditioning regimens in allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for high-risk acute leukemia.

Mengarelli A(1), Iori A, Guglielmi C, Romano A, Cerretti R, Torromeo C, Micozzi 
A, Fenu S, Laurenti L, Donato V, De Felice L, Arcese W.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Cellulari ed Ematologia, Università La 
Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: To analyze the results of standard versus alternative 
myeloablative conditioning regimens in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for high-risk acute leukemia.
DESIGN AND METHODS: From October 1986 to February 2000, 104 consecutive patients 
(male: n = 63; median age: 21, range 1.3-44.2 years) with high-risk acute 
leukemia underwent a non-T-cell depleted graft from an HLA-identical sibling 
following a standard or alternative myeloablative conditioning regimen. Sixty 
patients were affected by acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and 44 by acute 
myeloid leukemia (AML); the phase at transplant was >= 2nd complete remission 
(CR) in 76, untreated 1st relapse with < 20% blasts in 11, refractory leukemia 
or overt resistant relapse in 17. Pre-transplant regimens consisting of either 
12 Gy fractionated total body irradiation (TBI) or 16 mg/kg busulphan (BU) 
combined with cyclophosphamide (CY) were defined standard (n = 38), whereas all 
other myeloablative regimens (TBI plus 60 mg/kg etoposide and three-drug 
combinations) were considered alternative (n = 66).
RESULTS: No significant differences in terms of baseline characteristics, 
incidence and severity of either acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD) were observed between the two groups, but a significantly higher 
proportion of patients prepared with an alternative regimen were not evaluable 
for chronic GVHD (36% vs 16%) (p = 0.026). Sixty-six patients died, 38 of 
relapse, 26 of transplant-related mortality (TRM) and 2 of other causes. 
Thirty-eight patients are still alive with a follow-up ranging from 0.7 to 13.8 
years (median, 7.1 years); only 1 of 39 patients who relapsed after transplant 
is alive in CR at 5.7 years from relapse. At the median follow-up, the actuarial 
probabilities of overall survival, relapse and TRM for patients conditioned with 
standard and alternative regimens are respectively 52% vs 25% (95% CI, 36-68% vs 
13-37%; p = 0.0163), 34% vs 58% (95% CI, 18-51% vs 43-73%; p = 0.0377) and 25% 
vs 32% (95% CI, 9-40% vs 19-44%; p = ns). After adjustment for diagnosis, age, 
period, leukemia phase, duration of 1st CR, GVHD prophylaxis and donor-recipient 
sex combination, the multivariate analysis showed that alternative regimens are 
associated with a significantly worse survival (hazard ratio 2.31; p = 0.0071) 
and relapse rate (hazard ratio 2.75; p = 0.0187).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: From this retrospective analysis we can conclude 
that the alternative myeloablative conditioning regimens we used did not improve 
the outcome of patients transplanted for high-risk acute leukemia.

PMID: 11801465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Haematologica. 2002 Jan;87(1):67-77.

Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders: improved outcome after 
clinico-pathologically tailored treatment.

Muti G(1), Cantoni S, Oreste P, Klersy C, Gini G, Rossi V, D'Avanzo G, Comoli P, 
Baldanti F, Montillo M, Nosari A, Morra E; Cooperative Study Group on PTLDs.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology-Haematology, Niguarda Hospital, Piazza Ospedale 
Maggiore, 3 20162 Milan, Italy. ematologia@ospedale-niguarda.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Clinical and pathologic variability of 
post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLDs), their aggressive behavior 
and the recognized therapy-related toxicity make management of patients with 
these disorders difficult. Assessment of first-line treatment and identification 
of prognostic factors need to be better defined.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Data on 40 PTLDs which developed in adult solid organ 
recipients were analyzed in order to evaluate clinical and pathologic features, 
response to treatment and prognostic factors. Data were collected 
retrospectively between 1989 and 1996; since 1997 a prospective study has been 
activated.
RESULTS: The median time from transplant to PTLD was 56 months. Regarding 
histologic features, plasmacytic hyperplasia was diagnosed in 5 patients 
(12.5%), polymorphic lymphoproliferative disorders in 3 (7.5%), malignant 
lymphoma in 32 (80%). The diagnosis was made at autopsy in eight patients (20%). 
Late-onset PTLDs (>12 months from transplant) occurred in 33 patients (83%), 
EBV-negative forms in 12 (31%). Relevant differences have been observed between 
EBV-positive and EBV-negative forms. Twenty-nine patients completed their 
scheduled treatment and are evaluable for outcome. The cumulative probability of 
survival at 1 year is 57% (CI 37.6-73.4) and the median survival time of the 
entire group has not been reached at 54 months. Clinical stage, performance 
status, lactate dehydrogenase and number of sites are predictive factors for 
survival. The International Prognostic Index and the PTLD index are able to 
identify different risk groups.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Although rare, PTLDs are a significant cause of 
mortality in allograft recipients. Therapy tailored on histologic and clinical 
features of PTLD is feasible and is able to give long-lasting complete 
responses.

PMID: 11801467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Haematologica. 2002 Jan;87(1):105-6.

Clinical and economic evaluation of using granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
after autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation in children.

González-Vicent M(1), Madero L, Sevilla J, Díaz MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, Niño 
Jesús Children's Hospital, Menéndez Palayo 65, 28009 Madrid, Spain.

PMID: 11801471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Med Care. 2002 Feb;40(2):113-28. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200202000-00006.

Multiattribute and single-attribute utility functions for the health utilities 
index mark 3 system.

Feeny D(1), Furlong W, Torrance GW, Goldsmith CH, Zhu Z, DePauw S, Denton M, 
Boyle M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics; Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
dfeeny@pharmarcy.ualberta.ca

BACKGROUND: The Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) is a generic multiattribute 
preference-based measure of health status and health-related quality of life 
that is widely used as an outcome measure in clinical studies, in population 
health surveys, in the estimation of quality-adjusted life years, and in 
economic evaluations. HUI3 consists of eight attributes (or dimensions) of 
health status: vision, hearing, speech, ambulation, dexterity, emotion, 
cognition, and pain with 5 or 6 levels per attribute, varying from highly 
impaired to normal.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives are to present a multiattribute utility function and 
eight single-attribute utility functions for the HUI3 system based on community 
preferences.
STUDY DESIGN: Two preference surveys were conducted. One, the modeling survey, 
collected preference scores for the estimation of the utility functions. The 
other, the direct survey, provided independent scores to assess the predictive 
validity of the utility functions.
MEASURES: Preference measures included value scores obtained on the Feeling 
Thermometer and standard gamble utility scores obtained using the Chance Board.
RESPONDENTS: A random sample of the general population (> or =16 years of age) 
in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
RESULTS: Estimates were obtained for eight single-attribute utility functions 
and an overall multiattribute utility function. The intraclass correlation 
coefficient between directly measured utility scores and scores generated by the 
multiattribute function for 73 health states was 0.88.
CONCLUSIONS: The HUI3 scoring function has strong theoretical and empirical 
foundations. It performs well in predicting directly measured scores. The HUI3 
system provides a practical way to obtain utility scores based on community 
preferences.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200202000-00006
PMID: 11802084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Jan;35(1):38-46; discussion 46-7.

Relationship between site of initial symptoms and subsequent progression of 
disease in a prospective study of atherosclerosis progression in patients 
receiving long-term treatment for symptomatic peripheral arterial disease.

Nicoloff AD(1), Taylor LM Jr, Sexton GJ, Schuff RA, Edwards JM, Yeager RA, 
Landry GJ, Moneta GL, Porter JM; Homocysteine and Progression of Atherosclerosis 
Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW 
Sam Jackson Park Rd., Portland, OR 97201, USA.

PURPOSE: There have been few studies of the natural history of peripheral 
arterial disease (PAD), and none have used serial noninvasive laboratory 
examinations for the objective quantification of disease progression. The 
relationship between the site of initial symptoms of PAD (lower-extremity 
disease [LED] vs cerebrovascular disease [CVD]) and the site of subsequent 
symptomatic progression (LED vs CVD vs coronary heart disease [CHD]) has not 
been examined.
METHODS: This is a long-term, blinded prospective clinical research study of the 
relationship of PAD progression to multiple clinical, laboratory, and 
noninvasive vascular laboratory parameters. Patients with symptomatic LED, CVD, 
or both underwent comprehensive risk-factor assessment and were seen every 6 
months for follow-up examinations. In addition to history and physical 
