examination, all subjects underwent serial noninvasive lower-extremity and 
carotid artery testing. The relationship between the initial symptomatic site(s) 
and subsequent progression was examined by means of multivariate proportional 
hazards analysis, which was adjusted for age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, 
smoking, cholesterol, homocysteine level, lowest initial ankle/brachial index 
(ABI), worst carotid stenosis, ABI progression, and carotid stenosis 
progression, because each of these factors was significantly associated with one 
or more aspects of progression.
RESULTS: There were 397 study subjects (mean age, 66 years; 38% women) with a 
mean follow-up period of 48.5 months. LED was initially present in 88% of 
subjects and CVD in 37% of subjects (both were present in 25% of subjects). 
There were 78 deaths, 47 (60%) of which were caused by cardiovascular disease 
(18% mortality rate after 5 years by means of life table). Progression of 
disease as documented by means of vascular laboratory findings occurred in 90% 
of subjects by means of life table after 5 years (ABI progression, 31%; carotid 
stenosis progression, 40%). Symptomatic clinical progression of disease occurred 
in 52% of subjects by means of life table after 5 years (LED progression, 22%; 
CVD progression, 23%; CHD progression, 31%). By means of multivariate analysis, 
no significant relationship was found between the site of initial symptoms of 
PAD and the site(s) of subsequent symptomatic clinical progression (LED vs CVD 
vs CHD; P = not significant for all hazard ratios).
CONCLUSION: Patients with symptomatic PAD experience symptoms of ongoing LED, 
CVD, and CHD with a frequency that is not influenced by the site(s) of their 
original symptoms. The hypothesis that lesions and resulting symptoms of 
systemic atherosclerosis occur at various anatomic sites as a matter of random 
chance should be tested with other studies.

PMID: 11802131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Int J Cancer. 2002 Feb 1;97(4):451-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.1637.

P53 overexpression predicts poor chemosensitivity to high-dose 5-fluorouracil 
plus leucovorin chemotherapy for stage IV colorectal cancers after palliative 
bowel resection.

Liang JT(1), Huang KC, Cheng YM, Hsu HC, Cheng AL, Hsu CH, Yeh KH, Wang SM, 
Chang KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

Our study aims to further clarify the prognostic significance of p53 
overexpression in stage IV colorectal cancer. Between January 1994 and June 
1997, we recruited 144 patients with stage IV colorectal cancers for our study, 
based on appropriate eligibility criteria. The patients were nonrandomly 
allocated to 2 treatment groups of either with or without high-dose 
5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin chemotherapy (HDFL: 5-Fu: 2,600 mg/m(2) 
leucovorin 300 mg/m maximum 500 mg). Each treatment group was further divided 
into 2 subgroups according to the status of p53 overexpression. Therefore, 4 
subgroups were allocated in our study and were designated as p53 
(overexpression) HDFL (+), n = 65; p53 (normal) HDFL (+), n = 37; p53 
(overexpression) HDFL (-), n = 27; and p53 (normal) HDFL (-), n = 15, 
respectively. All patients were prospectively followed until April 2001. There 
was no significant difference of the background clinicopathologic data of these 
4 allocated subgroups of patients (p > 0.05). Multivariate analysis of various 
clinicopathologic factors of the whole group of patients indicated that age > or 
= 60 years, poor differentiation, mucin production, CEA > 100 ng/ml, p53 
overexpression and without chemotherapy were the significant independent poor 
prognostic factors (p < 0.05). Survival analyses indicated that the patients of 
subgroup p53 (normal) HDFL (+) survived significantly longer than those of 
subgroup p53 (overexpression) HDFL (+), with mean survival time (95% confidence 
interval [CI]) of 20.24 (16.24-24.25) and 13.29 (10.98-15.60) months, 
respectively (p = 0.0043, log-rank test). In contrast, in patients without 
chemotherapy, the prognosis was poor regardless of their p53 status, with mean 
survival time (95% CI) of 6.85 (5.47-8.23) and 5.87 (4.48-7.26) months in p53 
(overexpression) HDFL (-) and p53 (normal) HDFL (-) subgroups of patients, 
respectively (p = 0.2820, log-rank test). Cancers of normal p53 expression 
responded significantly better to HDFL (p < 0.05), with mean response rate (95% 
CI) being 65.57% (52.18-82.96%) in subgroup p53 (normal) HDFL (+) as compared to 
35.38% (23.52-47.24%) in subgroup p53 (overexpression) HDFL (+). The toxicity to 
HDFL was similarly minimal between p53-normal and p53-overexpression patients (p 
> 0.05). We thus concluded that the poorer prognosis of stage IV colorectal 
cancers with p53 overexpression was associated with their poorer 
chemosensitivity rather than the more biologic aggressiveness.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.1637
PMID: 11802206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Int J Cancer. 2002 Feb 1;97(4):512-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.1633.

Prognostic value of thymidine phosphorylase expression in breast carcinoma.

Yang Q(1), Barbareschi M, Mori I, Mauri F, Muscar√† M, Nakamura M, Nakamura Y, 
Yoshimura G, Sakurai T, Caffo O, Galligioni E, Dalla Palma P, Kakudo K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Pathology, Wakayama Medical University School of 
Medicine, Wakayama City, Japan. yang-qf@mail.wakayama-med.ac.jp

Thymidine phosphorylase (TP), also known as platelet-derived endothelial cell 
growth factor (PD-ECGF), is an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible 
dephosphorylation of thymidine, deoxyuridine and their analogs. TP has also 
angiogenic properties, although the precise mechanism by which it promotes 
angiogenesis is not known. We examined TP expression using immunohistochemistry 
(654-1 Mab) in 182 invasive breast carcinomas (67 N0 and 115 N1/2; median 
follow-up 78 months [range, 3-177]; 51 patients treated with adjuvant systemic 
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil [CMF] chemotherapy and 82 with 
tamoxifen). High TP expression was found in 142 cases (78%) and correlated with 
lower histologic grade and low p53 expression. No correlation was found between 
TP expression and vascular density. TP-positive tumors had a significant 
increase in both disease-free survival (DFS; p = 0.0025) and overall survival 
(OS; p = 0.0070) in the total cohort of patients and in the subgroups of 
node-positive patients and patients treated with CMF adjuvant therapy; no 
significant difference in either DFS or OS was observed in patients without CMF 
treatment. Our findings suggest that TP has little effect on tumor angiogenesis 
of breast carcinoma, whereas it could represent an interesting marker that could 
predict response to CMF chemotherapy.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.1633
PMID: 11802215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Int J Cancer. 2002 Feb 1;97(4):548-53. doi: 10.1002/ijc.10075.

Evaluation of cytokeratin-19 mRNA as a tumor marker in the peripheral blood of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy.

Lin JC(1), Chen KY, Wang WY, Jan JS, Liang WM, Wei YH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China. jclin@vghtc.vghtc.gov.tw

The reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique is a tool 
capable of detecting minute quantities of circulating tumor cell-derived 
transcripts. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a rapidly growing tumor of 
epithelial origin and high metastatic potential. The aim of our study is to 
investigate the clinical value of circulating cytokeratin-19 (CK-19) mRNA 
detection in NPC patients. Between June 1997 and March 1999, 57 previously 
untreated, advanced NPC patients without distant metastasis were uniformly 
treated by concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Peripheral blood samples were collected 
prospectively before treatment and subjected to a nested RT-PCR assay. Measures 
were taken to prevent contamination and pseudogene interference. PCR products of 
positive results were verified by restriction enzyme Hae II and direct 
sequencing. Under our nested RT-PCR experimental conditions, 33.3% (19/57) 
clinically nonmetastatic NPC patients had CK-19 mRNA in their blood. The 
positive detection rates of CK-19 mRNA in the peripheral blood for different 
stages were 20.0% for stage II, 31.6% stage III and 43.5% stage IV (p = 0.1335). 
After a median follow-up time of 35 months, 2 patients had recurrences of their 
primary tumors and 14 developed distant metastases without locoregional 
recurrence. Nine of 19 (47.4%) CK-19 mRNA-positive patients and 5 of 38 (13.2%) 
CK-19 mRNA-negative patients developed distant metastasis (p = 0.00826). The 
3-year metastasis-free survival rates were 49.9% for patients with detectable 
CK-19 and 85.9% for those with undetectable CK-19 (p = 0.0089, log-rank test). 
Our data suggest that the presence of CK-19 mRNA in the peripheral blood may be 
a potential marker of micrometastasis for NPC.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.10075
PMID: 11802221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2001;102(10):473-8.

Cardiac surgery in the elderly from the point of cardiologist. Evaluation of 
risk and outcome.

Kanalikova K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiosurgery, Slovak Cardiovascular Institute, Pod Krasnou 
horkou 1, SK-833 48 Bratislava, Slovakia. kanalikova@susch.sk

Prolongation of life expectancy, increasing incidence of coronary artery 
disease, advances in surgical techniques and in care of elderly patients are 
reasons of elevating the number of prospective candidates in this age group for 
cardiac surgery. Although advanced age is considered as a risk factor for any 
form of surgical treatment and is usually associated with higher postoperative 
morbidity and mortality rates. The paper submitted clarifies numerous problem 
areas concerning this topic in the group of patients over 65 years. The factors 
affecting decision-making for surgical treatment are analyzed. The specific 
problems concerning this age group: significant disease severity, more comorbid 
illnesses are discussed. Some specifics of cardiac surgery (coronary artery 
bypass grafting and/or valve surgery) are dealt with. An increased attention 
should be devoted to mental and metabolic state and general physical condition 
(level of fitness and activity). High level of activity and intellectual 
functions, re-socialization efforts following surgery and adequate social 
background of the patient also play an important role. According to these facts 
individualized approach in indication for surgery is emphasized. (Ref. 45.)

PMID: 11802296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Homo. 2001;52(2):157-72. doi: 10.1078/0018-442x-00026.

Palaeodemography of the Nasca valley: reconstruction of the human ecology in the 
southern Peruvian coast.

Drusini AG(1), Carrara N, Orefici G, Rippa Bonati M.

Author information:
(1)Dip. di Biologia, Universit√† di Padova, via U. Bassi 58/B, 35131 Padova, 
Italia. andrea.drusini@unipd.it

This study is based on skeletons and mummies belonging to 582 individuals 
excavated at sites of Pueblo Viejo, Cahuachi, Estaqueria and Atarco in the Nasca 
valley, South Coast of Peru. Archaeological evidence distinguishes three 
cultural phases: Nasca (400 BC-550 AD), Wari (600-1100 AD) and Chincha 
(1100-1412 AD). Since the Chincha human remains were too exiguous (27 
individuals), only Nasca and Wari were considered. For the Nasca population, sex 
ratio was 113 men to 100 women (53% of males); for the Wari population, sex 
ratio was 117 men to 100 women (54% of males). The palaeodemographic data show 
that the infant mortality rate was 33@1000 for Nasca and 105@1000 for Wari. Life 
expectancy was 38-43 years for Nasca and 31-36 years for Wari. Death percentages 
in all the age groups increased from Nasca to Wari phase. ANOVA and t-test for 
paired comparison were applied in order to examine if dental and bone ages were 
statistically different. Long bones and teeth showed an allometric development, 
and the age estimated from the tooth formation and eruption was generally higher 
than the age estimated from the maximum lengths of long bones. The 
anthropological study of the Nasca valley skeletal populations confirmed the 
archaeological hypothesis of worse conditions of the Wari population in 
comparison with the previous Nasca people.

DOI: 10.1078/0018-442x-00026
PMID: 11802566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Jan 28;162(2):163-8. doi: 10.1001/archinte.162.2.163.

Cost-effectiveness of a single colonoscopy in screening for colorectal cancer.

Sonnenberg A(1), Delc√≤ F.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Section (111F), Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, 1501 San Pedro Dr SE, Albuquerque, NM 87108, USA. sonnbrg@unm.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2002 Oct 28;162(19):2249.

BACKGROUND: A single colonoscopy at the age of 65 years has been recommended as 
a potential option to screen for colorectal cancer. This study compares the 
cost-effectiveness of 2 screening programs based on a single or repeated 
colonoscopy.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of screening is analyzed with a computer model 
of a Markov process. A hypothetical population of 100 000 subjects aged 50 years 
undergoes a single colonoscopy at the age of 65 years or repeated colonoscopy 
every 10 years starting at the age of 50. Transition rates are estimated from US 
vital statistics and cancer statistics and published data on polyp incidence, 
patient compliance, and efficacy of colonoscopy plus polypectomy in cancer 
prevention. Costs of screening and cancer care are estimated from the 1998 
Medicare reimbursement data using the perspective of a third-party payer.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
a single or repeated colonoscopy amounts to $2981 or to $10 983 per life year 
saved, respectively. A single colonoscopy saves most life years if done at the 
age of 60, but becomes most cost-effective after the age of 70. Depending on the 
level of compliance, repeated colonoscopies save 2 to 3 times more lives than a 
screening program based on a single colonoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: A repeated colonoscopy every 10 years offers better prevention 
against colorectal cancer and represents a medically more desirable screening 
option. If high costs or low patient compliance renders this option not 
feasible, a single colonoscopy at the age of 65 would represent a highly 
cost-effective alternative.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.2.163
PMID: 11802749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Jan 28;162(2):177-82. doi: 10.1001/archinte.162.2.177.

Cost-effectiveness of gemfibrozil for coronary heart disease patients with low 
levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol: the Department of Veterans 
Affairs High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Intervention Trial.

Nyman JA(1), Martinson MS, Nelson D, Nugent S, Collins D, Wittes J, Fye CL, Wilt 
TJ, Robins SJ, Bloomfield Rubins H; VA-HIT Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Services Research and Policy, University of Minnesota, 420 
Delaware St SE, Mail Route 729, Minneapolis, MN 55455-0392, USA. 
nyman001@tc.umn.edu

BACKGROUND: Although numerous clinical trials and economic analyses have 
established the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of lowering cholesterol for the 
prevention of coronary heart disease, there are few data on the role of raising 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels and lowering triglyceride 
levels. The US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Cooperative Studies Program 
HDL-C Intervention Trial (VA-HIT) was a multicenter, randomized trial of 
gemfibrozil, an agent that raised HDL-C levels and lowered triglyceride levels, 
yet had no effect on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. The 
study showed that gemfibrozil therapy significantly reduced major cardiovascular 
events (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke) in patients 
with coronary heart disease, low HDL-C levels, and low LDL-C levels.
OBJECTIVE: To report the results of a cost-effectiveness study based on the 
results of the VA-HIT.
METHODS: The cost per year of life gained with gemfibrozil therapy was 
calculated. Hazard functions were estimated, and the resulting probabilities 
were used in a Markov model simulation to estimate the effect of gemfibrozil on 
life expectancy and costs over a simulated lifetime. Sensitivity analyses were 
used to account for uncertainty.
RESULTS: Using the prices of gemfibrozil that were negotiated by the VA, 
gemfibrozil was cost saving. Using drug prices found outside the VA, a 
quality-adjusted life-year saved by gemfibrozil therapy cost between $6300 and 
$17 100.
CONCLUSIONS: Gemfibrozil reduces major cardiovascular events in male coronary 
heart disease patients with low levels of HDL-C and low levels of LDL-C and 
would result in cost saving at annual drug costs of $100 or less in 1998 
dollars. Even at the higher drug prices represented by the average wholesale 
price in the United States, the cost of a life-year saved is well below the 
threshold that would be deemed cost-effective. To our knowledge, this is the 
first economic analysis based on clinical trial data to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of raising HDL-C levels and lowering triglyceride levels in a 
setting in which LDL-C levels were not lowered.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.2.177
PMID: 11802751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Perinatol. 2001 Dec;21 Suppl 1:S25-9; discussion S35-9. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jp.7210629.

Breastfeeding and jaundice.

Gartner LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Obstetrics/Gynecology, The University of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

In the breastfed infant, prolongation of unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia into 
the third and later weeks of life in the healthy newborn is a normal and 
regularly occurring extension of physiologic jaundice. This is known as 
breastmilk jaundice. A factor in human milk increases the enterohepatic 
circulation of bilirubin. Insufficient caloric intake resulting from maternal 
and/or infant breastfeeding difficulties may also increase serum unconjugated 
bilirubin concentrations. This is the infantile equivalent of adult starvation 
jaundice. It is known as breastfeeding jaundice or "breast-nonfeeding jaundice." 
This increase in severity of physiologic jaundice of the newborn also results 
from increased enterohepatic circulation of bilirubin, but not because of a 
factor in human milk. In extreme cases, it may place the infant at risk for 
development of bilirubin encephalopathy. Optimal breastfeeding practices, which 
result in minimal initial weight loss and early onset of weight gain, are 
associated with both reduced breastfeeding jaundice and minimization of the 
intensity of breastmilk jaundice.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jp.7210629
PMID: 11803412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Can J Nurs Leadersh. 2001 Nov-Dec;14(4):20-5. doi: 10.12927/cjnl.2001.19132.

Understanding the broader context: the health of the urban native Canadian.

Prodan-Bhalla N(1).

Author information:
(1)Trillium Health Centre, Mississauga, ON.

The average life expectancy for a Native male is 66, and for a non-Native male, 
76. It is undisputed that the health of the Native Canadian is poor, yet 
substantial inequalities remain. One of the reasons these inequalities remain is 
the shallow, limited understanding of the poor health of the urban Native 
Canadian which, in turn, leads to quick fixes and temporary solutions. The 
purpose of the following paper is to give nursing leaders an accurate 
description of the poor health status of the urban Native Canadian, as well as a 
description of the perpetuating events leading up to their current situation. 
Once this is understood, the nursing profession can work with urban Native 
Canadians towards sustainable, long-term solutions. The following paper provides 
an overview of the historical oppression of Native Canadians, a discussion on 
the effects of marginalization and the subsequent adaptation process, an 
overview of the current health status of the urban Native Canadian and a 
practical assessment tool. The paper concludes with practical suggestions and 
directions for the future.

DOI: 10.12927/cjnl.2001.19132
PMID: 11803942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Osteoporos Int. 2001;12(11):980-6. doi: 10.1007/s001980170028.

Long-Term fracture risk following ischemic stroke: a population-based study.

Melton LJ 3rd(1), Brown RD Jr, Achenbach SJ, O'Fallon WM, Whisnant JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. melton.j@mayo.edu

The overall risk of fracture following stroke has not been well quantified. We 
addressed this issue in a population-based retrospective cohort study among the 
387 Rochester, Minnesota residents who survived for 90 days following their 
first cerebral infarction during the 10-year period, 1960-69. Cases were matched 
by age and sex to controls from the general population of Rochester, and 
subsequent fractures were assessed through review of each subject's complete 
(inpatient and outpatient) medical records in the community. With comparable 
follow-up, the 128 fractures observed among cases were little more than the 118 
seen among controls, and the cumulative incidence of any fracture after 25 years 
was not significantly different (71% versus 66%; p=0.464). Using stratified Cox 
analysis, there was no increase in the risk of fractures generally (hazard ratio 
(HR), 1.1; 95% CI, 0.8-1.6) or hip fractures specifically (HR, 1.1; 95% CI, 
0.6-2.1) compared with controls. Among the stroke patients with hemiparesis or 
hemiplegia, the majority of fractures occurred on the impaired side. In a 
multivariate analysis, fracture risk increased with age (HR per 10 years, 1.6; 
95% CI, 1.4-2.0), with hospitalization at onset of stroke (HR, 2.0; 95% CI, 
1.3-3.2) and with moderate functional impairment (HR, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.02-2.5) but 
not severe disability (HR, 0.8; 95% CI, 0.4-1.6). No other characteristic of the 
stroke or its treatment was an independent predictor of overall fracture risk. 
Patients and their caretakers need to be aware of the risk of fracture from 
falls, particularly when moderate impairment permits the patient to be 
independently mobile.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170028
PMID: 11804025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2002 Jan;21(1):207-25.

Chemical toxicity indicators for human health: case study for classification of 
chronic noncancer chemical hazards in life-cycle assessment.

Owens JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Product Safety, Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, Ohio 45253, USA. 
owens.jw@pg.com

The classification scheme for human health indicators in life-cycle assessment 
(LCA) and other toxicity scores is proposed based on identifiable target organ 
or system toxicity. This scheme represents a compromise between a subjective 
single overall score and highly detailed toxic mechanisms of action. A case 
study was used to evaluate the proposed classification scheme. The data on 117 
high production volume organic chemicals were extracted from the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) integrated risk information system 
(IRIS) database. Based on the critical effect listed in the database, almost all 
chemicals were easily and clearly classified into the proposed categories. 
However, there were significant variations in test species, protocol, duration, 
toxicological parameter measured, etc., among different toxicity studies. 
Importantly, the toxicological critical effects observed, even for the same 
target organ or system, differed from chemical to chemical and were not 
equivalent. Using hepatotoxicity as an example, critical effects included 
changes in organ weight, a variety of different histopathological changes, and 
changes in circulating hepatic enzyme levels. Therefore, no universal, common 
basis was identified for biological equivalency in order to compare or to 
aggregate chemicals into an overall toxicity score. A recent proposal to develop 
a characterization system based on disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) was 
also evaluated. No means were found to extrapolate animal critical effects data 
to predict any diminution in human lifetimes or the appearance and intensity of 
human disability. Still, LCA presents an ideal starting point for toxicological 
analysis by conducting a system-wide analysis that inventories and maps the 
sources of potentially important human pollutants. The LCA results could then 
facilitate initial toxicological and risk evaluations for those sources and 
chemicals and set the stage for a more detailed and informed analysis by 
professional toxicologists.

PMID: 11804056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Ann Oncol. 2001;12 Suppl 3:S31-6. doi: 10.1093/annonc/12.suppl_3.s31.

Survival and quality of life in gastrointestinal tumors: two different end 
points?

Cascinu S(1), Labianca R, Daniele B, Beretta G, Salvagni S.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Azienda Ospedaliera di Parma, Italy. cascinu@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: In gastrointestinal tumors, the traditional end point of medical 
treatment was represented mainly by survival. In the last few years, however, 
there has been an increasing awareness about the role of quality of life.
DESIGN: This paper seeks to discuss these two important end points and their 
relationship in colorectal, gastric, pancreatic and liver cancers.
RESULTS: Chemotherapy has doubled survival in comparison with best supportive 
care in gastrointestinal tumors. A subjective response, represented by a 
decrease in cancer-related symptoms is expected in about half of the symptomatic 
patients in colorectal and gastric cancer. In pancreatic cancer, the positive 
results in terms of clinical benefit helped define the role of chemotherapy. 
Although clinical benefit does not represent a validated tool to measure quality 
of life, it can be a first step in the definition of new, simpler tools to 
assess this end point. The frequent presence of a serious concomitant disease, 
liver cirrhosis, in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) usually 
prevents the use of chemotherapy in these tumors, which are often treated with 
locoregional treatments. Unfortunately, their impact on the survival and quality 
of life of these patients has never been adequately assessed.
CONCLUSIONS: In many gastrointestinal cancers, chemotherapy can produce a 
survival gain and an improvement in the quality of life. Further studies 
assessing new drugs and/or combinations should focus on these aspects and their 
relationships. In particular, the impact of treatments of HCC on both survival 
and quality of life must be investigated by well-designed prospective trials. 
When assessing the value of a particular anticancer treatment, it is important 
to consider the impact it may have not only on survival but also on quality of 
life. This is particularly so for cancer patients, whose life expectancy may be 
short.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/12.suppl_3.s31
PMID: 11804382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Ann Oncol. 2001;12 Suppl 3:S49-52. doi: 10.1093/annonc/12.suppl_3.s49.

Quality of life in elderly cancer patients.

Repetto L(1), Ausili-Cefaro G, Gallo C, Rossi A, Manzione L.

Author information:
(1)Geriatria Oncologica, Istituto di Riposo e Cura per Anziani, Rome, Italy. 
lazzarorepetto@libero.it

Increasing age is a major risk factor for developing cancer and the number of 
older people is rapidly expanding. Therefore, cancer in the geriatric population 
is becoming an emerging problem. Older patients are extremely heterogeneous. 
Instruments collecting information related to comorbidity and disability, (which 
have both been demonstrated to affect the survival of elderly patients) may help 
treatment decision. The G.I.O.Ger (Gruppo Italiano di Oncologia Geriatrica) has 
validated a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) scale for geriatric cancer 
patients, and we recommend its use in clinical practice. Our findings suggest 
that cancer adversely affects physical performance and psychological status less 
than other comorbidities. Many aspects of physical limitations are not totally 
recognised by performance status, in particular those aspects of daily life that 
require instrumental activities and that may affect adherence to diagnostic or 
therapeutic protocols. Quality of life as a main objective in the management of 
elderly cancer patients is now recognized by many clinicians. In clinical 
practice. quality of life means maintenance of function and symptom control, and 
quality-of-life instruments rated by the patient rather than by clinicians 
should be preferred. Whether it is preferable to use cancer-specific or generic 
instruments is an ongoing debate.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/12.suppl_3.s49
PMID: 11804385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Lung Cancer. 2002 Feb;35(2):215-6. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(01)00335-x.

Trends in lung adenocarcinoma incidence and survival.

Crocetti E, Paci E.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(01)00335-x
PMID: 11804696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Biol Reprod. 2002 Feb;66(2):495-9. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod66.2.495.

Postovulatory aging of oocytes decreases reproductive fitness and longevity of 
offspring.

Tar√≠n JJ(1), P√©rez-Albal√° S, P√©rez-Hoyos S, Cano A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology, University of Valencia, Burjassot, 46100 
Valencia, Spain. tarinjj@uv.es

We analyzed the long-term effects of postovulatory aging of mouse oocytes on 
reproductive fitness and longevity of offspring. Hybrid (C57BL/6JIco x CBA/JIco) 
parental generation (F0) females were artificially inseminated at 13 h 
(approximately 1 h postovulation) or 22 h (approximately 10 h postovulation) 
after GnRH injection. Reproductive fitness of first generation (F1) females was 
tested from the age of 28 wk until the end of their reproductive life. In males, 
the testing period ranged from the age of 2 yr until their natural death. 
Experimental F1 females exhibited longer between-labor intervals, decreased 
frequency of litters, and lower total number of litters and offspring born. 
Experimental second generation (F2) pups displayed teratogenic defects, higher 
preweaning mortality, and decreased body weight at weaning. Incidence of 
infertility was higher in experimental F1 males, which translated into lower 
total number of offspring born when compared with the control group. Life 
expectancy of F1 offspring was decreased in the experimental group. These 
results clearly show that postovulatory aging of mouse oocytes decreases 
reproductive fitness and longevity of offspring.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.2.495
PMID: 11804967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Neurology. 2002 Jan 22;58(2):283-8. doi: 10.1212/wnl.58.2.283.

Genetic factors and the founder effect explain familial MS in Sardinia.

Marrosu MG(1), Lai M, Cocco E, Loi V, Spinicci G, Pischedda MP, Massole S, 
Marrosu G, Contu P.

Author information:
(1)Multiple Sclerosis Center, Department of Neuroscience, Ospedale Binaghi, 
Cagliari, Italy. gmarrosu@unica.it

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the presence of familial aggregation and determine the 
contribution of genetic factors to familial clustering of MS in patients coming 
from Sardinia, a Mediterranean island considered a genetically homogeneous, 
isolated area having high disease incidence and prevalence.
METHODS: Recurrence risk in siblings of 901 Sardinian patients and factors 
influencing risk (patient and sibling sex, patient age at onset, sibling birth 
cohort, and presence of affected relatives other than siblings) were examined. 
The presence of distant familial relationships among patients was evaluated by 
tracing the extended pedigrees of all patients with MS born in one Sardinian 
village.
RESULTS: Twenty-three brothers and 36 sisters of the 2,971 siblings were 
affected with MS. Recurrence risk was greater in siblings of index patients with 
onset age less than 30 years (p < 0.01, increased risk 2.33 times) and having a 
relative with MS other than a sibling or parent (p < 0.01, increased risk 2.90 
times). Pedigree analysis of patients from the village of L. showed that all 11 
patients descended from 3 pairs of ancestors, whereas no cases occurred in the 
remaining 2,346 inhabitants. In descendants from the 3 couples, MS prevalence 
was dramatically greater than the regional average and 1.5 times greater than 
that observed in siblings of affected cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Data from this study indicate that MS familial aggregation in 
Sardinians is influenced by genetic factors and that founder effect and the 
isolation of Sardinia can be considered causes of the enrichment of "etiologic" 
MS genes.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.58.2.283
PMID: 11805258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jan 22;99(2):901-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.022641799.

Rescue of hereditary form of dilated cardiomyopathy by rAAV-mediated somatic 
gene therapy: amelioration of morphological findings, sarcolemmal permeability, 
cardiac performances, and the prognosis of TO-2 hamsters.

Kawada T(1), Nakazawa M, Nakauchi S, Yamazaki K, Shimamoto R, Urabe M, Nakata J, 
Hemmi C, Masui F, Nakajima T, Suzuki J, Monahan J, Sato H, Masaki T, Ozawa K, 
Toyo-Oka T.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Division, Niigata University Medical Hospital, Niigata University, 
Niigata 951-8520, Japan.

The hereditary form comprises approximately 1/5 of patients with dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM) and is a major cause of advanced heart failure. Medical and 
socioeconomic settings require novel treatments other than cardiac 
transplantation. TO-2 strain hamsters with congenital DCM show similar clinical 
and genetic backgrounds to human cases that have defects in the 
delta-sarcoglycan (delta-SG) gene. To examine the long-term in vivo supplement 
of normal delta-SG gene driven by cytomegalovirus promoter, we analyzed the 
pathophysiologic effects of the transgene expression in TO-2 hearts by using 
recombinant adeno-associated virus vector. The transgene preserved sarcolemmal 
permeability detected in situ by mutual exclusivity between cardiomyocytes 
taking up intravenously administered Evans blue dye and expressing the delta-SG 
transgene throughout life. The persistent amelioration of sarcolemmal integrity 
improved wall thickness and the calcification score postmortem. Furthermore, in 
vivo myocardial contractility and hemodynamics, measured by echocardiography and 
cardiac catheterization, respectively, were normalized, especially in the 
diastolic performance. Most importantly, the survival period of the TO-2 
hamsters was prolonged after the delta-SG gene transduction, and the animals 
remained active, exceeding the life expectancy of animals without transduction 
of the responsible gene. These results provide the first evidence that somatic 
gene therapy is promising for human DCM treatment, if the rAAV vector can be 
justified for clinical use.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.022641799
PMCID: PMC117403
PMID: 11805334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Blood Press Monit. 2001 Aug;6(4):211-5. doi:
10.1097/00126097-200108000-00010.

Ambulatory monitoring for prediction of cardiac and cerebral events.

Verdecchia P(1), Schillaci G, Reboldi G, Franklin SS, Porcellati C.

Author information:
(1)Cardiologia e Fisiopatologia Cardiovascolare, University of Perugia, Perugia, 
Italy. verdec@tin.it

DOI: 10.1097/00126097-200108000-00010
PMID: 11805472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Epidemiology. 2002 Jan;13(1):94-9. doi: 10.1097/00001648-200201000-00015.

Reliability of reporting on life-style and agricultural factors by a sample of 
participants in the Agricultural Health Study from Iowa.

Blair A(1), Tarone R, Sandler D, Lynch CF, Rowland A, Wintersteen W, Steen WC, 
Samanic C, Dosemeci M, Alavanja MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Gentics, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. blaira@mail.nih.gov

Repeat interviews from 4,088 Iowa pesticide applicators participating in the 
Agricultural Health Study provided the opportunity to evaluate the reliability 
of self-reported information on pesticide use and various demographic and 
life-style factors. Self-completed questionnaires were administered 1 year apart 
when participants returned to county agricultural extension offices for 
pesticide certification or training. Percentage agreement for ever-/never-use of 
specific pesticides and application practices was quite high, generally ranging 
from 70% to more than 90%, and did not vary by age, educational level, or farm 
size. Agreement was lower (typically 50-60%) for duration, frequency, or decade 
of first use of specific pesticides. Level of agreement regarding pesticide use 
in this population is similar to that generally found for factors typically used 
in epidemiologic studies such as tobacco use and higher than typically reported 
for diet, physical activity, and medical conditions.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-200201000-00015
PMID: 11805592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Aust Crit Care. 2001 Nov;14(4):161-4. doi: 10.1016/s1036-7314(05)80059-1.

In whose interests? The best interests principle under ethical scrutiny.

Bailey RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Deakin University, Faculty of Health and Behavioural Sciences, Geelong, VIC.

This paper critically examines the best interests principle and its role in 
making decisions about intensive care treatment. In current practice the best 
interests principle is sometimes relied upon to guide decision making in 
circumstances when the patient is incompetent, although it is intrinsically 
linked to inconsistent assumptions about what is meant by quality of life. This 
situation means that there is potential that moral errors will be made that may 
result in an unwanted extension of life for some individuals or the premature 
death of others. It is difficult to justify such decision making on ethical 
grounds. A greater understanding of the best interests principle, and 
consequently the concept of quality of life, is needed in order to ensure that 
decision making about intensive care is ethically defensible. It is argued that 
an ideal theory of quality of life provides an appropriate framework for best 
interests decisions, and that the decision making process ought to, whenever 
possible, involve the patient's close family.

DOI: 10.1016/s1036-7314(05)80059-1
PMID: 11806514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2002 Feb;46(2):271-83. doi: 10.1067/mjd.2002.119566.

Economic analysis in dermatology.

Ellis CN(1), Reiter KL, Wheeler JR, Fendrick AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI 49109-0314, USA.

Cost-effectiveness studies are rising in importance as means for justifying 
expenditures on health interventions and as guides for making treatment and 
resource allocation decisions. However, the term "cost-effective" often is used 
erroneously, attributed to therapies that have not been subjected to rigorous 
cost analysis or comparison to an appropriate alternative. Health economic 
studies include cost-of-illness, cost-minimization, cost-effectiveness, 
cost-utility, and cost-benefit analyses. Each of these types of analyses differs 
in what it measures and under what circumstances its use is appropriate. This 
article describes the different types of economic studies, using examples to 
highlight their key features, and provides a summary of the key components of an 
economic analysis including perspective, cost and outcomes measurement, time 
horizon, cost-discounting, and sensitivity analysis.

DOI: 10.1067/mjd.2002.119566
PMID: 11807441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. MMW Fortschr Med. 2001 Dec 6;143(49-50):56.

[Life expectancy decreased by 1/3rd. Who to sink the vascular risk of type 2 
diabetic patients?].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11808457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. BMJ. 2002 Jan 26;324(7331):207-11. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7331.207.

Reducing heterosexual transmission of HIV in poor countries.

Lamptey PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, 2101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 700, Arlington, VA 
22201, USA. Plamptey@fhi.org

Comment in
    BMJ. 2002 Apr 27;324(7344):1035.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.324.7331.207
PMCID: PMC1122131
PMID: 11809643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Feb;56(2):85-8. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.2.85.

Health economic evaluation.

Shiell A(1), Donaldson C, Mitton C, Currie G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Canada. 
ashiell@ucalgary.ca

A glossary is presented on terms of health economic evaluation. Definitions are 
suggested for the more common concepts and terms.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.2.85
PMCID: PMC1732075
PMID: 11812804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Feb;56(2):128-31. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.2.128.

How to measure the burden of mortality?

Bonneux L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bonneux@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: To explore various methods to quantify the burden of mortality, with 
a special interest for the more recent method at the core of calculations of 
disability adjusted life years (DALY).
DESIGN: Various methods calculating the age schedule at death are applied to two 
historical life table populations. One method calculates the "years of life 
lost", by multiplying the numbers of deaths at age x by the residual life 
expectancy. This residual life expectancy may be discounted and age weighted. 
The other method calculates the "potential years of life lost" by multiplying 
the numbers of deaths at age x by the years missing to reach a defined threshold 
(65 years or 75 years).
METHODS: The period life tables describing the mortality of Dutch male 
populations from 1900-10 (high mortality) and from 1990-1994 (low mortality).
RESULTS: A standard life table with idealised long life expectancy increases the 
burden of death more if mortality is lower. People at old age, more prevalent if 
mortality is low, lose more life years in an idealised life table. The 
discounted life table decreases the burden of death strongly if mortality is 
high: the life lost by a person dying at a young age is discounted. Age 
weighting the discounted life table balances the effect of discounting.
CONCLUSIONS: For the purpose of description of the burden of mortality, the 
aggregate life table of the studied populations gives the better description of 
the age schedule at death. Discounting and the use of idealised lifetables as a 
standard increase the burden of mortality of degenerative disease at the end of 
life. The age weighted discounted life table violates the principle of 
parsimony.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.2.128
PMCID: PMC1732067
PMID: 11812812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Med Pediatr Oncol. 2002 Feb;38(2):83-90. doi: 10.1002/mpo.1277.

Supratentorial embryonal tumors in children under 5 years of age: an SFOP study 
of treatment with postoperative chemotherapy alone.

Marec-Berard P(1), Jouvet A, Thiesse P, Kalifa C, Doz F, Frappaz D.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Unit, Centre L√©on Berard, 69373 Lyon, France. marec@lyon.fnclcc.fr

BACKGROUND: To determine the effectiveness of multiagent chemotherapy as sole 
post-operative treatment of supratentorial central nervous system (CNS) 
embryonal tumors in young children.
PROCEDURE: The data of 25 children under 5 years of age diagnosed with 
supratentorial embryonal tumors (17 primitive neuroectodermal tumors, four 
pinealoblastomas, and four medulloepitheliomas) treated exclusively by 
postoperative chemotherapy (CT) between 1990 and 1997 were reviewed.
RESULTS: Fifteen tumors were hemispheric and 10 were deeply seated. Four 
children presented with disseminated leptomeningeal disease. Total resection was 
performed in nine patients, subtotal in 9, partial in 3, and a diagnostic biopsy 
only in 2. Two children did not undergo surgery. Twenty-four children relapsed 
with a median time of 5.5 months. The median overall survival was 12 months, and 
the 2-, and 5- year survivals were 30 and 14%, respectively. The 2- year 
disease-free survival was 4%. There was a significantly worse prognosis in 
patients undergoing incomplete resection and in the group with deeply situated 
tumors. Four relapses were treated by second surgery followed by high-dose 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Two of them remain in CR2, and all these children 
are free of late sequelae.
CONCLUSIONS: CT alone failed to maintain disease-free survival in most of the 
children, although, disease progression was delayed to some extent. Children 
under 5 years with supratentorial embryonal tumors should undergo total surgical 
resection if possible.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mpo.1277
PMID: 11813171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2001 Feb;12(1):83-5.

[Life table of experimental population Liposcelis bostrychophila].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang J(1), Zhao Z, Li L.

Author information:
(1)Southwest Agricultural University, Chongqing 400716.

The age-specific and time-specific life table of experimental population 
Liposcelis bostrychophila was established at 8 different temperatures (17.5-35 
degrees C) and 5 different humidities (50-90% RH). The relations between 
population dynamics and temperature or humidity were discussed with Morris model 
and Weibull frequency distribution. The results indicated that the effect of 
temperature and humidity on survivorship was the most important factor to 
population trend index (I). Under suitable range of temperature and humidity, 
the population survival curve belonged to Deevey I; while under improper 
conditions, it belonged to Deevey III. Theoretically, finite increase rate 
(lambda) had the highest value 1.0628/day at 30.63 degrees C. The optimum range 
of temperature and relative humidity for its development and reproduction was 
estimated at 28-30 degrees C and 80% +/- RH, respectively.

PMID: 11813441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 2001;63(5):405-30; discussion 431.

Evolution of all-cause and cause-specific mortality in the age-class 75-84 years 
during the period 1970-1996. A worldwide overview.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, KULeuven Kapucijnenvoer 
35, B-3000 Leuven.

The mean age of nearly all industrialised populations is increasing, due to a 
lower birth rate and increased expectation of life. The calendar age, however, 
does not equal biological age. At all ages below 85 years subjects now have 
higher life expectancies than e.g. 40 years ago. In the age class 75-84 years, 
during the period 1970-latest available year (around 1996), important decreases 
in all-cause and cardiovascular mortalities occur both from ischemic heart 
disease and cerebrovascular disease, with the exception of Eastern Europe. 
Gompertz equations demonstrate that all-cause mortality in the age class 75-84 
years cannot be isolated from groups age classes above age of 35 years since the 
R2 of the equations > 0.99 in all countries. In the age class 75-84 years cancer 
mortality increased in a majority of countries: as a result the decline in 
mortality is nearly exclusively due to a decrease in non-cancer mortality 
especially cardiovascular mortality. A passive attitude towards the possibility 
of influencing all-cause mortality in the age class 75-84 years is not 
warranted.

PMID: 11813501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Hepatogastroenterology. 2001 Nov-Dec;48(42):1692-6.

Clinical features and treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma in eight patients 
older than eighty years of age.

Hazama H(1), Omagari K, Matsuo I, Masuda J, Ohba K, Sakimura K, Kinoshita H, 
Isomoto H, Murase K, Kohno S.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Nagasaki University School of 
Medicine, 1-7-1 Sakamoto, Nagasaki 852-8501, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Most-hepatocellular carcinoma patients are between 40 and 60 
years of age, but an increasing number of elderly patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma is expected in the future because of the increase in life expectancy 
seen in many countries. Since elderly patients have a high incidence of comorbid 
illnesses, it should be useful to examine the clinical features of these 
patients to select the optimal management strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma.
METHODOLOGY: A retrospective review of 111 patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma was undertaken to examine the clinical features of 8 patients older 
than 80 years of age.
RESULTS: In the 111 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, the ratio of males 
to females was 81:30 and the peak incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma was 
noted in the seventh and eighth decades in males and females, respectively. Of 
these, 21 (19%) were type "B" [seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigen 
(HBsAg) and seronegative for antibody to the hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV)], 69 
(62%) were type "C" (seronegative for HBsAg and seropositive for anti-HCV), 3 
(3%) were type "B + C" (seropositive for both HBsAg and anti-HCV), and 18 (16%) 
were type "non-B non-C" (seronegative for both HBsAg and anti-HCV). The peak 
incidences of type "B" were in the sixth decade, whereas those of type "C" were 
in the seventh decade in both males and females. Patients with "non-B non-C" 
were common in their seventies. Of the 111 patients, 6 (5 males and 1 female) 
were older than 80 years at the time of diagnosis and 2 females became 80 years 
old during the course of follow-up of hepatocellular carcinoma. All but one of 
these patients were anti-HCV-positive, stage and clinical stage I or II 
according to the criteria defined by the Liver Cancer Study Group of Japan, and 
underwent transcatheter arterial embolization and/or transcatheter arterial 
infusion chemotherapy. Transcatheter arterial embolization/transcatheter 
arterial infusion or percutaneous ethanol injection therapy was well tolerated 
in these patients, and the outcome of these patients was good. However, 
concomitant underlying diseases other than liver diseases made it impossible or 
difficult to apply an aggressive management protocol for hepatocellular 
carcinoma in some patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the overall treatment of hepatocellular 
carcinoma in the elderly should be similar to that in younger patients, but may 
be restricted by the concomitant underlying diseases specific to advanced age.

PMID: 11813602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Vector Ecol. 2001 Dec;26(2):196-201.

Age of Anopheles gambiae Giles male mosquitoes at time of mating influences 
female oviposition.

Chambers GM(1), Klowden MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Entomology, University of Idaho, Moscow, ID 83844-2339, USA.

Female Anopheles gambiae were more likely to oviposit when they mated with males 
that were two days old than when they mated with older males. The females' age 
at the time of mating and blood feeding did not influence ovipositional 
patterns. Females were no less likely to oviposit when they mated after blood 
feeding and maturing eggs. Sperm were present in the seminal vesicles of males 
28 hours after eclosion, and their accessory glands were replete by 76-100 
