hours. The mean life span of sucrose-fed unmated females and males was 22 days.

PMID: 11813657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Clin Ther. 2001 Dec;23(12):2038-49. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(01)80156-9.

Cost-Effectiveness of tolterodine for patients with urge incontinence who 
discontinue initial therapy with oxybutynin: a Canadian perspective.

O'Brien BJ(1), Goeree R, Bernard L, Rosner A, Williamson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. obrienb@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Tolterodine is a novel muscarinic receptor antagonist for the 
treatment of overactive bladder.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
tolterodine for patients with urge incontinence (UI) who discontinue initial 
therapy with oxybutynin in a Canadian setting.
METHODS: We compared 2 treatment strategies for the management of adult patients 
with UI: (1) generic oxybutynin with no further treatment for patients who 
discontinue and (2) generic oxybutynin with switch to tolterodine (2 mg BID) for 
patients who discontinue. We developed a 1-year Markov model (4-week cycle 
length) with transitions between disease states of normal, mild, moderate, and 
severe. Transition probabilities over 12 weeks were obtained from randomized 
trial data, and drug discontinuation rates were obtained from Quebec 
prescription claims data. Outcome measures were time in "normal" health state 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) using EuroQol-5D utility scores from a 
survey of Swedish patients with overactive bladder. Costs to the health care 
payer and patient out-of-pocket costs (in Canadian dollars) were included.
RESULTS: For patients who discontinue oxybutynin, the use of tolterodine is 
associated with approximately 6 months per year in a normal health or mild 
disease state, compared with approximately 3 months for those who do not receive 
further drug therapy after discontinuation. Tolterodine use resulted in an 
annual additional cost per patient of Can $163. The incremental cost per QALY 
was Can $9,982 and appeared to be robust to alternative model parameter 
assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Use of tolterodine in patients with UI who discontinue initial 
therapy with generic oxybutynin lies within currently accepted benchmarks for 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(01)80156-9
PMID: 11813937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Laparoendosc Adv Surg Tech A. 2001 Dec;11(6):351-9. doi: 
10.1089/10926420152761860.

Minimally invasive surgery for esophageal achalasia.

Zaninotto G(1), Costantini M, Molena D, Portale G, Costantino M, Nicoletti L, 
Ancona E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Clinica Chirurgica IV, 
University of Padua, School of Medicine, Italy. giovanni.zaninotto@unipd.it

BACKGROUND: Esophageal achalasia is characterized by loss of peristaltic 
activity and failure of relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). The 
characteristic dysphagia may be alleviated by surgery, dilations, or botulinum 
toxin injections. Video-endoscopic surgery is used increasingly.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This paper reports our experience with 142 consecutive 
achalasia patients treated by laparoscopic Heller myotomy and Dor antireflux 
fundoplication and followed for a median 26 months.
RESULTS: Overall, the actuarial lifetable analysis showed a 90% probability of a 
patient's being symptom free over a 5-year period. Radiologic assessment showed 
a significant reduction in esophageal diameter and manometry a significant 
reduction in the resting tone and residual pressure of the LES. Twenty-four-hour 
pH monitoring showed postoperative reflux in 6.7% of patients. Persistent 
dysphagia or chest pain (i.e., failure of treatment) were reported by 15 
patients (10.6%): 14 of them were subsequently treated with multiple pneumatic 
dilations, which were successful in 12 cases.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic Heller myotomy with Dor fundoplication is a feasible 
and effective treatment for achalasia, with an actuarial success rate of 90% at 
5 years. With additional dilation, a 98% success rate can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1089/10926420152761860
PMID: 11814125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. J Autism Dev Disord. 2001 Dec;31(6):569-76. doi: 10.1023/a:1013247011483.

Causes of death in autism.

Shavelle RM(1), Strauss DJ, Pickett J.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California, USA.

Comment in
    J Autism Dev Disord. 2006 Feb;36(2):287-8.

The objective of this study was to determine which causes of death are more 
frequent in persons with autism, and by how much, compared with the general 
population. Subjects were 13,111 ambulatory Californians with autism, followed 
between 1983 and 1997. The units of study were person-years, each linked to the 
subject's age, sex, and cause of death (if any) for the specific year. Observed 
numbers of cause-specific deaths were compared with numbers expected according 
to general population mortality rates. Standardized mortality rates (SMRs) were 
computed for each mental retardation level. Elevated death rates were observed 
for several causes, including seizures and accidents such as suffocation and 
drowning; elevated mortality due to respiratory disease was observed among 
persons with severe mental retardation. Overall, excess mortality was especially 
marked for persons with severe mental retardation, but life expectancy is 
reduced even for persons who are fully ambulatory and who have only mild mental 
retardation.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013247011483
PMID: 11814268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol. 2002 Feb;42(2):193-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00244-001-0010-9.

The juvenile growth rate of Daphnia: a short-term alternative to measuring the 
per capita rate of increase in ecotoxicology?

Trubetskova I(1), Lampert W.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute of Limnology, Postfach 165, 24302 Pl√∂n, Germany.

The juvenile growth rate (gj) of Daphnia is a good predictor of the per capita 
rate of increase (r), which is considered the ecologically most meaningful 
parameter. The hypothesis is tested that gj may be used as a surrogate for r in 
short-term ecotoxicological tests to replace the time-consuming population-based 
testing. The effects of 3,4-dichloroaniline (DCA) on various reproductive 
parameters of Daphnia magna, including r, net reproductive rate in 21 days 
(R21), age at first reproduction (AFR), adult survival, and egg viability, were 
measured simultaneously with gj. Reproductive parameters were not affected below 
a concentration of 9 microg/L DCA, but all of them responded strongly above this 
concentration. DCA reduced the total number of eggs produced only moderately, 
but induced strong egg mortality in particular in the first brood. Because egg 
mortality is an important factor, measures of sublethal toxic effects must be 
based on viable eggs. Although (g) is a good predictor of individual fitness of 
Daphnia under variable natural conditions when egg mortality is negligible, it 
is not a good predictor of the effects of xenobiotic stress; hence it cannot 
replace r. Short-term tests based solely on either somatic growth or egg 
viability are not sufficiently correlated with r to give ecologically meaningful 
results, but protocols based on the number of viable eggs in the first clutch 
and the time to release of the first neonates may be an alternative to the 
21-day test or longer life-table experiments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00244-001-0010-9
PMID: 11815810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2002 Feb;9(1):1-10. doi: 10.1076/opep.9.1.1.1715.

Incremental cost-effectiveness of laser therapy for visual loss secondary to 
branch retinal vein occlusion.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Sharma S, Busbee B, Brown H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Flourtown, PA 19031, USA. 
Garyo514@aol.com

PURPOSE: To ascertain the incremental cost-effectiveness of therapeutic 
interventions for improving visual loss associated with branch retinal vein 
occlusion.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis incorporating data from the Branch Vein 
Occlusion Study Group was performed using patient-based preferences obtained 
from time tradeoff utility analysis, decision analysis with Markov modeling, and 
economic modeling with future value analysis. The cost-effectiveness results are 
expressed in dollars/QALY (dollars expended per quality-adjusted life-year) 
gained. This unique model takes into account the visual acuity in the better 
seeing eye and the recurrent risk for visual loss in the contralateral eye.
RESULTS: Laser therapy for macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein 
occlusion was associated with an incremental dollars/QALY gained of 6118 dollars 
(in year 2000 U.S. dollars). Two-way sensitivity analysis, varying the discount 
rate and the proportion of patients developing a vascular occlusion in the 
contralateral eye, revealed a range of dollars/QALY gained from 3370 dollars to 
19,299 dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: Laser therapy appears to be a cost-effective intervention for 
improving visual loss associated with macular edema secondary to branch retinal 
vein occlusion. Variants of the methodology employed to calculate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of this intervention can be widely applied across 
all specialties in medicine.

DOI: 10.1076/opep.9.1.1.1715
PMID: 11815891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Semin Pediatr Surg. 2002 Feb;11(1):55-9. doi: 10.1053/spsu.2002.29368.

An introduction to economic evaluation for pediatric surgeons.

Hollenbeak CS(1), Dillon PW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Pennsylvania State College of Medicine, 
Hershey, PA 17036, USA.

In the last decade, the field of medicine has undergone irreversible changes in 
the relationship between the financing and delivery of health care. Because 
health care resources no longer can be treated as limitless, all providers are 
being forced to set priorities on services and are being held more accountable 
for quality of care. These changes have had a particular impact on surgical 
specialities. Because the discipline of economics is the study of the optimal 
allocation of scarce resources, it is not surprising that many of the methods of 
economic analysis now are being applied to outcomes research in surgery. 
Economic evaluation serves as the core methodology for the establishment of best 
practice guidelines through the growing field of evidenced-based medicine. The 
primary tools of economic evaluation include cost analysis, cost of illness 
analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, and cost-utility 
analysis. This report provides an introduction of these methods to enable 
pediatric surgeons to understand and critically evaluate these investigations as 
applied in pediatric surgery.

Copyright 2002 by W.B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/spsu.2002.29368
PMID: 11815943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nefrologia. 2001 Jul-Aug;21(4):332-6.

[Controversies in nephrology: dialysis in the elderly].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega F, G√≥mez E, Baltar J, Rebollo P.

PMID: 11816505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2001;151(18-20):412-21.

[Social medicine aspects of the aging man].

[Article in German]

Rieder A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut f√ºr Sozialmedizin der Universit√§t Wien, Alser Strasse 21/12, A-1080 
Wien. anita.rieder@chello.at

The potential for good health is largely dependent on the prevention and 
reduction of early onset of fatal disease and death. The male population, in 
particular, is at risk from early onset of fatal disease and death. Prevention 
strategies must be developed in order to reduce the risk factors leading to the 
currently most common causes of death (heart disease, cancer, accidents). Due to 
the increase in life expectancy, however, other illnesses generally affecting 
the elderly population (osteoporosis, dementia, cancer, heart attack, 
incontinence etc.) are gaining in significance. The above average reduction in 
life expectancy in men can be counteracted particularly through preventative 
measures and the active promotion of good health. In particular risk factors, 
such as, smoking, overweight, high blood pressure and metabolic disease, are 
responsible for the high mortality rate in men. New research areas must be 
defined for the male population, which particularLy focus on the ageing male. In 
the field of age related illness, gender specific investigations are definitely 
required. The main focus has to be on therapy and prevention of those diseases 
and their subsequent debilitating effects, that commonly effect the elderly. 
Particularly with men there is still a deficit of information with regards the 
role of hormones and their relationship with andropause and ageing.

PMID: 11817249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2001;151(18-20):430-8.

[Diseases of the prostate in elderly patients. Benign prostate hyperplasia and 
prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Madersbacher S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universit√§tsklinik f√ºr Urologie, W√§hringer G√ºrtel 18-20, A-1090 Wien. 
madersbacher@hotmail.com

The incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) increases constantly beyond 
the 3rd decade of life and is almost always present in men aged 80-90 years of 
age. Approximately half of the men with benign prostatic hyperplasia develop a 
clinically enlarged prostate (BPE), 50% of those with BPE lower urinary tract 
symptoms. The diagnostic work-up of men with lower urinary tract symptoms and 
BPH/BPE comprises subjective (symptom score) and objective (uroflowmetry, post 
void residual volume) parameters. The therapeutic armentarium has been 
substantially enlarged during the past decade and now comprises effective drugs, 
minimally invasive treatment options and surgical treatment. In industrialised 
countries, prostate cancer is currently the most frequently diagnosed malignancy 
and the second leading cause of cancer death. Prostate cancer diagnosis, 
treatment and follow-up was revolutionised by the introduction of the tumour 
marker prostate specific antigen. In cases of a localised prostate cancer and a 
life expectancy of at least 10 years, radical prostatectomy is the therapy of 
choice, in those with a life expectancy of less than 10 years radiotherapy leads 
to satisfactory results. In generalised cases antiandrogen therapy is still 
considered "Gold Standard".

PMID: 11817252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Prev Med. 2002 Feb;34(2):109-18. doi: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0876.

Evolutionary health promotion.

Eaton SB(1), Strassman BI, Nesse RM, Neel JV, Ewald PW, Williams GC, Weder AB, 
Eaton SB 3rd, Lindeberg S, Konner MJ, Mysterud I, Cordain L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Emory University, 2887 Howell Mill Road NW, 
Atlanta, GA 30327, USA. daphne@mindspring.com

Comment in
    Prev Med. 2002 Oct;35(4):415-8.

Health promotion's promise is enormous, but its potential is, as yet, unmatched 
by accomplishment. Life expectancy increases track more closely with economic 
prosperity and sanitary engineering than with strictly medical advances. Notable 
achievements in the past century--the decreased incidences of epidemic 
infections, dental caries, and stomach cancer--are owed to virologists, 
dentists, and (probably) refrigeration more than to physicians. Prevention 
speaks against tobacco abuse with a single voice, but in many other areas 
contradictory research findings have generated skepticism and even indifference 
among the general public for whom recommendations are targeted. Health 
promotion's shortcomings may reflect lack of an overall conceptual framework, a 
deficiency that might be corrected by adopting evolutionary premises: (1) The 
human genome was selected in past environments far different from those of the 
present. (2) Cultural evolution now proceeds too rapidly for genetic 
accommodation--resulting in dissociation between our genes and our lives. (3) 
This mismatch between biology and lifestyle fosters development of degenerative 
diseases. These principles could inform a research agenda and, ultimately, 
public policy: (1) Better characterize differences between ancient and modern 
life patterns. (2) Identify which of these affect the development of disease. 
(3) Integrate epidemiological, mechanistic, and genetic data with evolutionary 
principles to create an overarching formulation upon which to base persuasive, 
consistent, and effective recommendations.

Copyright 2001 American Health Foundation and Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0876
PMID: 11817903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Prev Med. 2002 Feb;34(2):119-23. doi: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0966.

Evolutionary health promotion: a consideration of common counterarguments.

Eaton SB(1), Cordain L, Lindeberg S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Anthropology and Radiology, Emory University, 2887 Howell Mill 
Road NW, Atlanta, GA 30327, USA. sboydeaton@mindspring.com

Comment in
    Prev Med. 2002 Oct;35(4):415-8.

The proposal that Late Paleolithic (50,000-10,000 BP) ancestral experience might 
serve as a model for prevention research and even, if justified by experiment, 
as a paradigm for health promotion recommendations is sometimes discounted, 
before critical assessment, because of reservations based on unjustified 
preconceptions. Most often such biases involve comparative life expectancy, 
potential genetic change since agriculture, the heterogeneity of ancestral 
environments, and/or innate human adaptability. This paper examines these topics 
and attempts to show that none of them justifies a priori dismissal of the 
evolutionary approach to preventive medicine. Evolutionary health promotion may 
ultimately be invalidated because of its falsification by experiment or because 
another theory accords better with known facts, but these commonly held 
prejudices should not forestall its thoughtful consideration and investigative 
evaluation.

Copyright 2001 American Health Foundation and Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.2001.0966
PMID: 11817904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(1):37-47. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220010-00004.

Antihypertensive treatment with and without benazepril in patients with chronic 
renal insufficiency: a US economic evaluation.

Hogan TJ(1), Elliott WJ, Seto AH, Bakris GL.

Author information:
(1)MEDTECH, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, USA. thogan@fordham.edu

OBJECTIVE: To conduct an economic analysis in the US of antihypertensive 
treatment with and without benazepril in patients with chronic renal 
insufficiency.
DESIGN: A four-state Markov model, using clinical data obtained from a 3-year 
randomised clinical trial [the Angiotensin-Converting-Enzyme Inhibition in 
Progressive Renal Insufficiency (AIPRI) study] plus its extension study (median 
3.6 years), and cost data obtained from published US sources. The period of 
analysis was 7 years following randomisation.
PERSPECTIVE: Healthcare payer.
SETTING: Clinical data were obtained from multiple medical centres in three 
European countries as described in the published studies. Key economic data were 
obtained from the US Healthcare Financing Administration's End Stage Renal 
Disease programme.
PATIENTS AND INTERVENTIONS: In the clinical studies on which this economic 
analysis was based, patients with chronic renal insufficiency of various 
aetiologies were randomised to antihypertensive therapy with or without 
concomitant benazepril.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Over 7 years of analysis, patients randomised 
to antihypertensive treatment with concomitant benazepril therapy incurred on 
average USD12991 (1999 values) lower medical costs than patients prescribed 
antihypertensive treatment without benazepril, and obtained an additional 0.091 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs and QALYs were greater for the 
benazepril arm than the placebo arm for all years of analysis after the first. 
Rank order stability of results favouring the benazepril therapy arm was found 
in sensitivity analyses of changes in key model parameters. Additional economic 
and health benefits favouring patients receiving benazepril would be seen if 
underlying model rates of dialysis and transplantation were increased, as may be 
appropriate to reflect treatment practice differences in the US relative to 
European countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Benazepril therapy as a component of antihypertensive treatment of 
persons with chronic renal insufficiency initially costs money, but investment 
costs are recouped quickly and return on investment continues to grow. The 
impact of end-stage renal disease on patient health and healthcare costs is 
great. Thus, the quality-adjusted survival benefits and overall cost savings 
seen in benazepril recipients over a prolonged period (2 to 7 years) indicate 
that the strategy of prescribing benazepril to reduce progression of renal 
disease in patients with renal insufficiency is both clinically and economically 
beneficial compared with current antihypertensive regimens without ACE 
inhibition.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220010-00004
PMID: 11817991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Sports Med. 2002;32(2):83-94. doi: 10.2165/00007256-200232020-00001.

Steroid use and long-term health risks in former athletes.

P√§rssinen M(1), Sepp√§l√§ T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Substance Abuse, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, 
Finland. miia.parssinen@ktl.fi

This article focuses on anabolic steroid adverse effects on the cardiovascular 
system and mental health issues as well as the possible increase in the 
incidence of neoplasms in anabolic steroid users. On the basis of findings in 
the literature, the authors consider these three issues as the most significant 
concerning morbidity and mortality among anabolic steroid users. A study by 
P√§rssinen et al. (2000) has shown an increased incidence of premature mortality 
among power lifters. Anabolic steroids and other concomitantly used drugs are 
the probable cause of this increased mortality, as power training itself does 
not increase health risks and all types of physical activity promote health.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-200232020-00001
PMID: 11817994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Am J Prev Med. 2002 Feb;22(2):98-105. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00409-3.

Impact of the U.S. panel on cost-effectiveness in health and medicine.

Phillips KA(1), Chen JL.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy & Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. kathryn@itsa.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine whether recommendations made by the U.S. Panel on 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine (Panel Report) have been associated 
with changes in how cost-effectiveness analyses are conducted.
METHODS: We examined whether studies published after the Panel Report was issued 
and which cited the Panel Report were more likely to follow its recommendations 
on discounting, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental ratios than 
(1) studies published before the Panel Report, and (2) studies published after 
the Panel Report but that did not cite the Panel Report. We used the Science 
Citation Index to identify all studies citing the Panel Report that were also 
empirical, cost-effectiveness analyses (n=18). We randomly selected two groups 
for comparison (N=54). Studies were compared using contingency tables.
RESULTS: Significantly more studies that cited the Panel Report used a 3% 
discount rate than did post-report comparison studies (p=0.03) and pre-report 
comparison studies (p=0.03). There was a nonsignificant trend for studies citing 
the Panel Report to be more likely to use QALYs and incremental ratios (range of 
p=0.11 to p=0.20).
CONCLUSIONS: We found evidence that the Panel Report had an impact on practice. 
However, 31% of the studies citing the Panel Report did not follow the 
recommendation to use a 3% discount rate, and only 28% followed all three 
recommendations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(01)00409-3
PMID: 11818178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Feb;57(2):B48-53. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.2.b48.

Effects of telomerase and viral oncogene expression on the in vitro growth of 
human chondrocytes.

Martin JA(1), Mitchell CJ, Klingelhutz AJ, Buckwalter JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242, 
USA. james-martin@uiowa.edu

Senescent chondrocytes accumulate with aging in articular cartilage, a process 
that interferes with cartilage homeostasis and increases the risk of cartilage 
degeneration. We showed previously that chondrocyte telomere length declines 
with donor age, which suggests that the aging process is telomere dependent. 
From these results we hypothesized that telomerase should delay the onset of 
senescence in cultured chondrocytes. Population doubling limits (PDL) were 
determined for chondrocytes expressing telomerase. We found that telomerase 
alone did not extend PDL beyond controls that senesced after 25 population 
doublings. The human papillomavirus 16 oncogenes E6 and E7 were transduced into 
the same cell population to investigate this telomere-independent form of 
senescence further. Chondrocytes expressing E6 and E7 grew longer than the 
telomerase cDNA (hTERT) cells but still senesced at 55 population doublings. In 
contrast, chondrocytes expressing telomerase with E6 and E7 grew vigorously past 
100 population doublings. We conclude that although telomerase is necessary for 
the indefinite extension of chondrocyte life span, telomere-independent 
senescence limits PDL in vitro and may play a role in the age-related 
accumulation of senescent chondrocytes in vivo.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.2.b48
PMID: 11818423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Feb;57(2):M106-10. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.2.m106.

Effects of a treadmill walking program on muscle strength and balance in elderly 
people with Down syndrome.

Carmeli E(1), Kessel S, Coleman R, Ayalon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Ramat Aviv, Israel. elicarmeli@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Longer life expectancy is resulting in increasing numbers of elderly 
adults with mental retardation. In elderly adults with Down syndrome (DS), the 
maintenance of muscle strength, endurance, and dynamic balance are important to 
ensure quality of life and functional independence. The objective of this study 
was to compare isokinetic leg strength and dynamic balance of aged mentally 
retarded individuals with DS (n = 16, mean age 63) before and after a treadmill 
walking program lasting 6 months in comparison with a nonwalking control group 
(n = 10) with similar physical characteristics.
METHODS: Participants in the study undertook leg strength testing on a 
dynamometer. Parameters measured included peak torque, peak torque % body 
weight, and average power % body weight. A "timed get-up and go" functional test 
for dynamic balance was also analyzed and compared prior to and after the 
treadmill program.
RESULTS: Knee extension and flexion isokinetic strength in elderly individuals 
with DS showed significant improvement after 6 months of treadmill training. 
Dynamic balance performance was also significantly improved (p <.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Aged adults with DS can significantly improve muscle strength and 
balance by adopting suitable programs of treadmill walking.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.2.m106
PMID: 11818429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Annu Rev Med. 2002;53:355-68. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.53.082901.104000.

Early management of prostate cancer: how to respond to an elevated PSA?

Canto EI(1), Slawin KM.

Author information:
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA. ecanto@bcm.tmc.edu

Support for prostate cancer screening efforts is provided by observational 
studies reporting decreases in prostate cancer-specific mortality in areas where 
screening is performed with digital rectal exam (DRE) and measurement of serum 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. The combination of PSA and DRE is an 
excellent cancer-screening tool with sensitivity and positive predictive value 
superior to that of mammography and breast exam. Use of percent free PSA further 
improves the specificity of PSA testing, particularly in the range of 4-10 
ng/ml, at which most false positive PSA tests occur. Men older than 50 with a 
>10-year life expectancy should be considered for prostate cancer screening. 
Those with an abnormal DRE or a PSA above 4 ng/ml should be referred to a 
urologist for further discussion of the risks and benefits of a prostate biopsy. 
Furthermore, those with a significant change in either DRE or PSA results, or 
those at higher risk for prostate cancer with a PSA level above 2.5 ng/ml, 
should also be referred for evaluation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.53.082901.104000
PMID: 11818479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Orthop Trauma. 2002 Feb;16(2):73-81. doi:
10.1097/00005131-200202000-00001.

Functional outcome after isolated acetabular fractures.

Borrelli J Jr(1), Goldfarb C, Ricci W, Wagner JM, Engsberg JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Washington University, School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate objectively the effectiveness of current surgical 
management of displaced acetabular fractures. To provide insight into how these 
evaluation methods can be used to identify areas in which improvements in 
surgery and rehabilitation can be pursued to improve patient outcomes.
DESIGN: Consecutive case series.
SETTING: University medical center.
PATIENTS: Fifteen patients were studied, each with an isolated, displaced 
acetabular fracture treated with a Kocher-Langenbeck approach.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcome measures included hip muscle strength, 
including work (Joules/minute) and maximum torque (30 degrees/second) for 
abductors/adductors and flexors/extensors. Gait analysis of patients and 
able-bodied cohorts, including stride length, speed, and cadence, were also 
assessed. Motion analysis during gait was also studied for each body segment, 
including the trunk, pelvis, hip, knee, and ankle, in the sagittal, frontal, and 
axial planes. Motion data for the affected side was compared with motion data 
for the unaffected side, and linear gait findings for the study patients were 
compared to able-bodied cohorts. An assessment of clinical outcome was performed 
by completion of a validated Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (MFA) 
questionnaire and the were results correlated with muscle strength and gait 
analysis. Secondary outcome measures included adequacy of fracture reduction, 
radiographic grade, the presence and severity of heterotopic ossification at the 
time of the most recent follow-up, and passive range of motion of the affected 
and unaffected hips.
RESULTS: No statistical differences in muscle strength for each of the major 
muscle groups were found when the affected limb was compared with the unaffected 
limb. No statistical differences were found between the study patients and the 
able-bodied cohorts with regards to stride length, gait speed, and cadence. The 
only significant difference found in body segment position was trunk 
inclination. When the study patients were compared with able-bodied cohorts, the 
patients tended to walk with greater forward inclination of their trunks; this 
was true for all phases of gait. Total MFA scores averaged 22 (range, 0-57). 
Patients could be separated into two separate groups based on their total MFA 
score. One group (n = 6) had an average MFA score of 7 (range, 0-10), while a 
second group (n = 9) had an average MFA score of 32 (range, 12-57). The scores 
of study patients as a whole, and those of each individual group of patients, 
were compared with known MFA scores for nonpatients and patients in the 
Orthopaedic Trauma Association/Association for the Study of Internal Fixation 
(OTA/AO) injury group (hip and thigh). When the muscle strengths of these two 
groups of patients were compared, all hip flexion and extension variables were 
significantly weaker in the group with an average MFA score of 32, whereas none 
of the gait variables were different between the two groups. At an average 
follow-up of 24 months, seven patients had an excellent radiographic grade, four 
patients had a good grade, two patients had a fair grade, and two patients had a 
poor grade. These radiographic grades were in contrast to achieving an anatomic 
reduction in eleven patients, a satisfactory reduction in three patients, and an 
unsatisfactory reduction in one patient. Heterotopic ossification was found in 
eight patients, four patients had Grade 1, and four patients, had Grade 2. No 
statistically significant differences were observed when each MFA group was 
compared with each of these radiographic variables. Passive hip range of motion 
was not statistically different when the affected hip was compared with the 
unaffected hip.
CONCLUSIONS: Standardized muscle strength determination, gait, and motion 
analysis, and completion of an MFA questionnaire provided a thorough and 
revealing evaluation of patients who have undergone open reduction and internal 
fixation (ORIF) of a displaced acetabular fracture. Minimal alterations in body 
posture and affected limb motion were present in patients displaying relatively 
normal gait parameters, including stride length, speed, and cadence. Despite 
dissection of the hip musculature during surgery, normal muscle strength 
recovery was possible after operative repair of these acetabular fractures. 
However, functional outcome, as determined by MFA scores, was considerably 
poorer in those patients with significantly weaker hip flexion and extension 
strength, compared with those of patients with more desirable MFA scores. Based 
on the current data, it appears that the use of these and similar evaluation 
instruments can allow determination of factors that negatively affect outcome 
(hip flexion and extension strength), which otherwise may remain unknown. It is 
possible that identification and treatment of these factors will improve the 
quality of life for patients after this type of injury.

DOI: 10.1097/00005131-200202000-00001
PMID: 11818800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Herz. 2001 Dec;26(8):513-22. doi: 10.1007/pl00002056.

[Life style changes for prevention of coronary heart disease].

[Article in German]

Windler E(1), Zyriax BC.

Author information:
(1)Universit√§tsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf. Prof.Windler@t-online.de

BACKGROUND: In developed countries arteriosclerosis is responsible for the 
majority of all deaths. With growing prosperity the life expectancy is 
increasing, and cardiovascular disease is becoming the primary cause of 
premature death. Most complications of arteriosclerosis occur unexpectedly. 
Because of the severe morbidity and high mortality prevention is the only true 
solution.
CHANGES OF LIFESTYLE: Unhealthy nutrition, physical inactivity, overweight and 
smoking have been identified as the primary causes of arteriosclerotic vascular 
disease. Central obesity is responsible for the risk factors characterizing the 
metabolic syndrome. This is the result of inappropriate caloric intake and 
expenditure. In addition, the nutrients themselves can bear harmful consequences 
either indirectly by deteriorating risk factors like lipid parameters or by 
affecting directly the vessel wall. This can add to the deleterious effects of 
smoking. Evidently saturated fat is the single most decisive nutrient for 
atherosclerotic vascular disease. Cholesterol and trans fatty acids act 
additive, while unsaturated fatty acids appear to be beneficial. However, total 
fat intake is an important determinant of the energy supply, which again 
influences body weight and composite. Physical activity can counteract, but 
appears to be beneficial by several additional ways. Quitting smoking is highly 
effective already within few years. Together with physical activity and healthy 
nutrition more than 80% of all cardiovascular events can be prevented.
CONCLUSION: Preventive medicine needs to focus on lifestyle changes because they 
are feasible and highly effective. A nutrition low in total fat primarily by 
avoiding saturated and trans fatty acids, but rich in carbohydrates and fiber is 
recommended. Daily physical activity in any preferred way should be encouraged, 
and quitting smoking needs to be strongly emphasized.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00002056
PMID: 11820154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2001 Dec 20;90(51-52):2266-71.

[Diabetic nephropathies: therapeutic aspects].

[Article in French]

Bulliard C(1), Fontana E, Ruiz J.

Author information:
(1)Division d'endocrinologie, diab√©tologie et du m√©tabolisme, D√©partement de 
m√©decine interne, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne.

The incidence of diabetic nephropathy has declined these last decades, but 
diabetes mellitus still remains the commonest cause of end-stage renal failure, 
due to an increased prevalence of diabetes mellitus and a longer life expectancy 
for diabetic patients. The aim of this review is to describe the natural history 
of diabetic nephropathy and discuss the influence of many factors such as 
genetic and non-genetic progression promoters, hypertension, hyperglycemia, 
dyslipidemia, proteinuria and tobacco. Because only a comprehensive treatment 
strategy of these promoters will reduce the risk of end-stage renal failure, the 
inclusion of cardiovascular risk factors management and the screening of 
cardiovascular disease will further contribute to reduce the very high mortality 
of diabetic patients suffering of diabetic nephropathy.

PMID: 11820169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2001 Nov;86(1):17-23. doi: 10.1007/s004210100497.

Effect of local blood circulation and absolute torque on muscle endurance at two 
different knee-joint angles in humans.

Hisaeda HO(1), Shinohara M, Kouzaki M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Japan. CZU14563@nifty.ne.jp

Comment in
    Eur J Appl Physiol. 2002 Dec;88(3):294-5.

The effects of the local blood circulation and absolute torque on muscle 
endurance at different knee-joint angles were determined. The rate of muscle 
deoxygenation (using near-infrared spectroscopy), and the rate of muscle fatigue 
(using the slope of integrated electromyography, iEMG) were evaluated 
concurrently. Nine healthy subjects performed submaximal (50% maximal voluntary 
contraction. MVC) static knee extension at 50 degrees (extended position, EXT) 
and 90 degrees (flexed position, FLEX) joint angles until the target torque 
could no longer be maintained: that time was measured as the endurance time. 
They exercised with the circulation occluded (OCCL), and without (FREE) to study 
the possible effects of the local circulation. Although MVC torque was 
independent of joint angle [mean (SD) FLEX 250.6 (51.7) Nm and EXT 246.5 (46.6) 
N x m], significantly shorter (P<0.01) endurance time in FLEX [FREE 71.1 (10) s 
and OCCL 63.1 (8.8) s] than at EXT [FREE 115.3 (30) s and OCCL 106.7 (29.1) s] 
were obtained in both circulatory conditions. The iEMG-time slope was 
significantly greater in FLEX at the proximal and distal portion (P<0.05) in 
both circulatory conditions. Muscle deoxygenation rate in OCCL was significantly 
greater (P<0.05) at FLEX [20.8 (8.0)%] than EXT [10.9 (4.0)%]. The results would 
suggest that different knee-joint angle affects muscle endurance even if the 
local circulation is controlled. Circulatory disturbance would further reduce 
muscle endurance in EXT, but not in FLEX. Because of the greater muscle internal 
force in FLEX, local blood flow might be already limited even with a free 
circulation. The greater muscle deoxygenation and muscle fatigability would be 
related to the shorter muscle endurance in FLEX.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210100497
PMID: 11820316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1260-3. doi: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1260.

The role of medical care in contributing to health improvements within 
societies.

Bunker JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London 
Medical School, 1-19 Torrington Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK. 
j.bunker@public-health.ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1263-7.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1267-8.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1260
PMID: 11821323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1267-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1267.

Commentary: Medical care and the wider influences upon population health: a 
false dichotomy.

Frankel S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 
Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS9 2PR, UK.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1260-3.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1267
PMID: 11821325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1499. doi: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1499.

Gay life expectancy revisited.

Hogg RS, Strathdee SA, Craib KJ, O'Shaughnessy MV, Montaner J, Schechter MT.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/30.6.1499
PMID: 11821375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Int J Epidemiol. 2001 Dec;30(6):1508-9.

AIDS and poverty threaten to reverse health gains in Latin America and the 
Caribbean.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11821376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Eur J Cancer. 2002 Jan;38(1):2.

AIDS "may dwarf tobacco as killer".

Cannell E.

PMID: 11822315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Health Care Women Int. 2002 Jan;23(1):19-32. doi:
10.1080/073993302753428401.

Weighing the cons and pros: women's reasons for discontinuing hormone 
replacement therapy.

Reece SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Family Health Specialty, University of Massachusetts Lowell, USA.

As a greater proportion of U.S. women move into midlife, there has been 
increased interest in meeting their preventive health needs. Although hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) may not be an option for all postmenopausal women, it 
has been documented as prolonging life expectancy and protecting against 
osteoporosis. Despite its advantages for many women, often those who initiate 
HRT discontinue its use within a short time. The purpose of this qualitative 
study is to gain insights into women's reasons for discontinuing HRT. We 
collected data by semistructured interview from three diverse samples: 10 women 
who had been on HRT for two years or less, 11 health care providers of women, 
and 34 women who had gone off HRT. Reasons for discontinuing fell into seven 
broad categories: general Gestalt, somatic complaints, mind (knowledge, 
emotion), not being heard, hassles, indecisive medical community, and cons 
outweighed pros. Results indicate that women who discontinue HRT do so for a 
variety of reasons, many of which are connected to the health care system and 
its providers. Outcomes also suggest that sharing in decision making along with 
increased education, support, and individualized care are necessary to better 
address the preventive health care needs of postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.1080/073993302753428401
PMID: 11822557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Qual Life Res. 2001;10(7):587-93. doi: 10.1023/a:1013193007095.

A longitudinal study of health related quality of life and utility measures in 
patients with advanced breast cancer.

Perez DJ(1), Williams SM, Christensen EA, McGee RO, Campbell AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, New Zealand. 
davidpe@healthotago.co.nz

Health related quality of life (HRQOL) measures are now accepted as indicators 
of efficacy in the palliative treatment of cancer. Utility measures may also 
provide valuable information yet they have been applied less frequently. To 
assess the application of a time trade-off (TTO) utility measure and its 
concordance with the Spitzer uniscale and quality of life index (QLI) 38 women 
with advanced, symptomatic breast cancer were studied over a 12 month period. 
The correlation coefficient for QLI and TTO values was 0.54 and for uniscale and 
TTO 0.62. Using generalized estimating equations the regression of TTO scores on 
QLI and uniscale scores was significant at baseline. In longitudinal analyses 
results were significant only for QLI. Although all participants completed the 
HRQOL measures only 24 (63%) were prepared to trade time. The remaining 14 (32%) 
stated they felt too well to trade. Those prepared to trade time recorded 
significantly worse mean HRQOL scores throughout the study compared to those who 
felt too well to trade and had tumors which showed a poorer response to therapy. 
In this preliminary study utility and HRQOL scores were generally favorable 
throughout the 12 month study period and showed fair to moderate concordance. 
Further research in larger patient groups is required to better define the 
relationships between utility and HRQOL measures.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013193007095
PMID: 11822792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Qual Life Res. 2001;10(7):595-607. doi: 10.1023/a:1013123915272.

Measuring women's preferences for breast cancer treatments and BRCA1/BRCA2 
testing.

Cappelli M(1), Surh L, Humphreys L, Verma S, Logan D, Hunter A, Allanson J.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, Ottawa, Canada. cappelli@cheo.on.ca

In establishing decision models in the treatment and prevention of breast 
cancer, it is important to evaluate patients' preferences for such 
interventions. The objectives of the present study were: (i) to characterize 
women's preferences for breast cancer treatments and BRCA1/BRCA2 testing, using 
the rating scale and standard gamble techniques; and (ii) to identify factors 
associated with these quality of life indices. Data were collected from women 
with breast cancer (n = 60), high-risk relatives of women with breast cancer (n 
= 58), and women in the general population (n = 51). Regardless of group 
membership, participants favoured treatment and prevention options that involved 
minimal physical invasiveness. Women with breast cancer rated lumpectomy and 
radiation treatment more highly than high-risk relatives and women in the 
general population. Preferences did not differ according to participants' 
intentions to undergo BRCA testing. Age was the only demographic variable 
associated with health state preferences. These findings hold implications for 
the application of patient preferences to clinical decision making.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013123915272
PMID: 11822793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Qual Life Res. 2001;10(7):621-35. doi: 10.1023/a:1013171831202.

Swedish population health-related quality of life results using the EQ-5D.

Burstr√∂m K(1), Johannesson M, Diderichsen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. kristina.burstrom@smd.sll.se

Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measured on population level may be 
useful to guide policies for health. This study aims to describe the HRQoL; in 
EQ-5D dimensions, mean rating scale (RS) scores and mean EQ-5D index values, in 
the general population, by certain disease and socio-economic groups, in 
Stockholm County 1998. The EQ-5D self-classifier and a RS were included in the 
1998 cross-sectional postal Stockholm County public health survey to a 
representative sample (n = 4950, 20-88 years), 63% response rate. Mean RS score 
ranged from 0.90 (20-29 years) to 0.69 (80-88 years), mean EQ-5D index value 
ranged from 0.89 (20-29 years) to 0.74 (80-88 years). For different diseases 
mean RS scores ranged from 0.80 (asthma) to 0.69 (angina pectoris), mean EQ-5D 
index values ranged from 0.79 (asthma) to 0.66 (low back pain). The mean health 
state scores (RS and EQ-5D index) were 0.06 lower in the unskilled manual group 
than in the higher non-manual group after controlling for age and sex (p < 
0.0001). This difference was 0.03 after controlling also for different diseases 
(p < 0.0001). In conclusion, our results show that the HRQoL varies greatly 
between socio-economic and disease groups. Furthermore, after controlling for 
age, sex and disease, HRQoL is lower in manual than in non-manual groups.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013171831202
PMID: 11822795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Health Policy. 2002 Mar;59(3):183-91. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00172-5.

Measures of goal attainment and performance in the World Health Report 2000: a 
brief, critical consumer guide.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, PO Box 4404 Nydalen, 0403, Oslo, Norway. 
erik.nord@folkehelsa.no

The World Health Report 2000 presents a set of indicators and global indices by 
which different countries' goal attainment and performance in health care may be 
compared. The paper explains the methods employed in some detail and raises a 
number of critical points. The WHO has gone too far in compressing the results 
of potentially useful primary measurements in summary indices with unclear 
meaning, dubious validity and little practical relevance to decision makers 
facing specific tasks and problems. The WHO has also gone too far in applying 
the same measuring rods to countries with different histories and values and 
different stages of development, and in encouraging international comparisons 
that are of little use to policy makers. The WHO needs to add an indicator of 
equality in access to its present indicator of fairness in financing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00172-5
PMID: 11823023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Stroke. 2002 Feb;33(2):629-38. doi: 10.1161/hs0202.102880.
