
Costs and benefits of carotid endarterectomy and associated preoperative 
arterial imaging: a systematic review of health economic literature.

Benade MM(1), Warlow CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Medical School, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom. mtreadwell@barclays.net

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) reduces the risk of stroke 
in patients with severe stenosis of the internal carotid artery. However, the 
cost implications of this procedure have not yet been satisfactorily addressed. 
The objective of this systematic review was to critically appraise the studies 
addressing the economic implications of CEA and the associated preoperative 
arterial imaging.
METHODS: A systematic search strategy was developed to identify research 
articles related to the economic evaluation of CEA and the associated 
preoperative imaging. MEDLINE, EMBASE, and BIOSIS were electronically searched, 
and reference lists from identified studies were searched manually. Methods used 
to critically appraise these studies followed proposed guidelines for an 
economic evaluation that addresses 10 distinct aspects under 3 separate 
headings.
RESULTS: Studies identified were either partial economic or full economic 
evaluations, with the majority coming from the United States. The methodological 
quality seems to have improved over time. The studies that assessed 
cost-effectiveness of CEA were all modeling studies; although the same baseline 
parameters were used, divergent conclusions were reached. Variation in the cost 
estimates of CEA ($9500 to $11 500) in the same health care system was also 
observed in the studies reporting only on the cost of carotid surgery. For a 
symptomatic patient, the benefit of CEA ranged from 0.35 quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) (4.2 months) at a cost of $4100 per QALY to 0.93 QALYs (11.2 
months) at a cost of $434 per QALY. For an asymptomatic patient, the 
cost-effectiveness of CEA varied from 0.15 QALYs (1.8 months) at a cost of $52 
700 per QALY to 0.25 QALYs (3 months) at a cost of $8004 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Divergent conclusions of the cost-effectiveness of CEA were 
reported from studies that addressed the same questions and using similar 
parameters in their models. The cost estimates of the procedure and the 
different time periods used in the studies might explain these inconsistencies. 
Modeling studies in hypothetical cohorts might also be to blame. The 
cost-effectiveness of CEA will only definitively be assessed when real patient 
data are used.

DOI: 10.1161/hs0202.102880
PMID: 11823682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. West Indian Med J. 2001 Sep;50 Suppl 4:15-22.

Health trends in Jamaica. Significant progress and a vision for the 21st 
century.

Figueroa JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, 2 King Street, Kingston, Jamaica. figueroap@moh.gov.jm

Health trends in Jamaica have improved considerably during the past century. 
Life expectancy at birth increased from 38 years in 1900 to 72 years in 2000. 
The crude death and infant mortality rates declined significantly from 35.7 and 
174.3 deaths to 5.1 and 24.4 deaths, respectively, in the same period. The seven 
leading causes of death in 1945 were infectious diseases while the main causes 
of mortality and morbidity are now the chronic non-communicable lifestyle 
diseases, and injuries. Over the past few decades, considerable progress has 
been made in controlling vaccine preventable diseases and eliminating 
poliomyelitis and measles. Rates of infectious syphilis, congenital syphilis and 
gonorrhoea have declined significantly in recent years although chlamydia and 
herpes are common and the HIV/AIDS epidemic is a growing concern. Over the past 
few decades health expenditure has grown more rapidly in the private health 
sector than in the public health sector although services in the public sector 
are provided at significantly lower cost. Jamaica provides good health at low 
cost. However, more funds are needed to support the public health system. The 
current health reform process needs to be informed by a better understanding of 
the factors that have contributed to Jamaica's achievements in health and needs 
a clear health focus. The Ministry of Health has articulated a vision of health 
for the 21st century that requires a significant reorientation of health staff 
as well as empowering people to take responsibility for adopting healthy 
lifestyles.

PMID: 11824010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. West Indian Med J. 2001 Sep;50 Suppl 4:27-31.

Chronic diseases--facing a public health challenge.

Sargeant LA(1), Wilks RJ, Forrester TE.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Research Unit, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, University 
of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica. lsarge@uwimona.edu.jm

Middle income countries like those in the Caribbean can feel proud of their 
achievements in health care. There has been a dramatic fall-off in infant 
mortality and crude mortality rates along with significant improvements in life 
expectancy at birth. However, these countries now find themselves grappling with 
the burden of chronic non-communicable diseases such as heart disease, stroke, 
hypertension, diabetes mellitus and cancer. There are good data to support the 
view that some of these diseases, in particular diabetes mellitus, have assumed 
epidemic proportions and there is concern that this fact may have been missed by 
many because of the surreptitious onset, as is the nature of the chronic 
diseases. The impact of this epidemic may have suffered because of the higher 
profile of more topical issues like HIV/AIDS even though the former makes a 
larger contribution to morbidity and mortality statistics. It is now obvious 
that despite the impact of other factors, lifestyle changes are the major 
contributors to the epidemic. In populations of similar genetic stock, living in 
significantly different socio-economic circumstances, the impact of increased 
dietary salt, increasing obesity and decreased physical activity on the 
prevalence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and lipid disorders is 
unequivocal. Data from the developed world, which has already been through this 
epidemic of chronic diseases, have shown that increasing technological advances 
in medical care is an inefficient way to respond to the situation. A 
multi-sectoral approach is required to tackle this epidemic, including the 
provision of incentives for healthy eating and widespread opportunities for 
increased exercise and other physical activities. Continued research into the 
evolution of the epidemic, including reliable estimates via surveillance methods 
is a necessary component of our response. The problems and the solutions are not 
only the responsibilities of the health officials but must involve education, 
agriculture and other sectors of the economy.

PMID: 11824012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Vital Health Stat 2. 2000;(129):1-28.

A method for constructing complete annual U.S. life tables.

Anderson RN.

OBJECTIVES: This report describes a method for constructing complete annual U.S. 
life tables and for extending the age coverage of the life table to age 100. 
Previously, annual life tables were based on an abridged methodology and were 
closed with the age category 85 years and over. In the United States, 
approximately one-third of the population survives beyond age 85 years. This 
fact, coupled with improvements in age reporting and the availability of higher 
quality old-age mortality data, recommends that the life table be closed at an 
older age.
METHODS: The method, similar to that used to construct the decennial life 
tables, uses vital statistics and census data to calculate death rates for ages 
under 85 years and Medicare data for ages 85 years and over. Previously, the 
annual life tables were abridged, and used only vital statistics and census 
data.
CONCLUSIONS: The complete life table methodology described in this report 
produces estimates of life expectancy at ages 100 years and younger that are 
consistent with previously published life tables. Complete life tables based on 
1996 mortality data compared favorably with published 1996 abridged life tables 
and with the 1989-91 decennial life tables. The methodology was implemented 
beginning with final mortality data for 1997.

PMID: 11824050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Kongressbd Dtsch Ges Chir Kongr. 2001;118:450-3.

[Preoperative risk factors as deciding criteria in surgical treatment strategy 
of infrarenal aortic aneurysm].

[Article in German]

Teufelsbauer H(1), Prusa A, Nanobachvili J, Hölzenbein T, Kretschmer G, Huk I, 
Polterauer P.

Author information:
(1)Klinische Abteilung für Gefässchirurgie, Universität Wien-AKH, Währinger 
Gürtel 18-20, 1090 Wien, Osterreich.

Significant risk factors of operative therapy in patients with infrarenal aortic 
aneurysms (AAA) were determined. Best treatment strategy (open surgical repair, 
transluminal endovascular aneurysm management (TEAM) or conservative treatment) 
was selected on the base of evaluated risk factors, tendency of rupture and life 
expectancy. Of the typical risk factors impaired renal and/or lung function 
showed a significant influence on hospital mortality. In patients without these 
significant risk factors open surgical repair leads to good clinical results. 
Acceptable postoperative mortality rates after elective exclusion of an AAA with 
average size in patients presenting significant comorbidities can only be 
achieved using TEAM. If TEAM can not be performed, open surgery is only 
justified in the case of very large AAA diameter.

PMID: 11824296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2001;251 Suppl 2:II3-5. doi: 
10.1007/BF03035119.

Mental health: diversities, possibilities, shortcomings, challenges. the WHO 
perspective.

Rutz W(1).

Author information:
(1)WHO Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03035119
PMID: 11824832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Jan;54(2):245-54. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00024-7.

Historical trends of survival among widows and widowers.

Mineau GP(1), Smith KR, Bean LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 
84112-5550, USA. geri.mineau@hci.utah.edu

One of the most consistent findings in social demography is that recently 
widowed individuals, male or female, have higher rates of mortality than 
comparable married persons. These results are based generally on contemporary 
studies in developed nations where life expectancy is high. Because of data 
limitations, there are few studies available to determine whether these findings 
also occur when mortality rates were higher. This study uses the Utah Population 
Database that was developed from extensive family genealogies and now linked to 
Utah death certificates. These data make it possible to employ life course 
analysis of four marriage cohorts extending from 1860 through 1904 with 
mortality follow-up to 1990. This approach is used to compare mortality risks of 
widowed males and females relative to comparable married individuals. Covariates 
included in the study are remarriage, as well as religion and number of children 
ever born; these are all hypothesized to have protective effects on mortality 
risks for widowed men and women. Analysis of these data indicates that there are 
significant differences in the mortality risk for widowed men and women, and it 
is widowed men who have an excess risk of dying in every cohort and nearly every 
age. A consistent pattern of excess mortality in the comparison of married and 
widowed women was not observed. There are significant female and male 
differences in the effect of religion which was treated as a proxy for life 
style and social support: however, remarriage as a proxy for social support has 
similar protective effects on the surviving spouse.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00024-7
PMID: 11824929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Proc AMIA Symp. 2001:304-8.

Time trade-off utility modified to accommodate degenerative and life-threatening 
conditions.

Kattan MW(1), Fearn PA, Miles BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, USA.

The time trade-off is often argued to be the preferred utility assessment 
method. When measuring current health in its classic form, it involves a 
comparison of two certainties: perfect health and current health, each for a 
fixed period of time and followed by death. This makes the time trade-off 
insensitive to patient fears regarding premature death or worsening health. We 
suggest the classic time trade-off be modified to include subjective rather than 
actuarial life expectancy, and relaxation of the current health option to 
include uncertainty in quantity and quality of life. We illustrate the mechanics 
of this modified time trade-off and report a preliminary application to 122 men 
presenting to a prostate cancer screening program. Further analysis of this 
modified time trade-off appears warranted.

PMCID: PMC2243360
PMID: 11825200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Vnitr Lek. 2001 Dec;47(12):892-3.

[An unusually long survival after surgery in post-infarct rupture of the 
interventricular septum and resection of a left ventricular aneurysm].

[Article in Czech]

Fabián J(1).

Author information:
(1)Transplantacené oddelenie, Slovenský ústav srdcových a cievnych chorôb 
Bratislava.

In the submitted case-history the author describes a patient who 15 years 
previously underwent after an extensive myocardial infarction with rupture of 
the interventricular septum and a left ventricular aneurysm a plastic operation 
of the interventricular rupture and aneurysmectomy. This man, at present 70 
years old, lives without any significant restrictions. The author advocates an 
active, intensive and aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic approach in all thus 
vitally threatened patients for whom this arsenal offers a much greater hope for 
extension and improvement of life than the classical conservative therapy.

PMID: 11826556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Z Kardiol. 2001;90 Suppl 6:65-9.

[Multiple heart valve diseases: differential therapeutic considerations].

[Article in German]

Zerkowski HR(1), Preiss M.

Author information:
(1)Departement Herz-Thoraxchirurgie Universitätskliniken Kantonsspital 
Spitalstr. 21 4031 Basel, Switzerland. mpreiss@uhbs.ch

After more than 40 years of heart valve surgery, the indication for double valve 
procedures still represents a problem in the presence of an obviously leading 
single valve disease. If the isolated valves do not already represent a clear 
indication for surgery then this situation is the best example for a good deal 
of thought in cardiac surgery and discussion with competent cardiologists.

PMID: 11826824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Z Kardiol. 2001;90 Suppl 6:70-4.

[Timing of reoperation of degenerated aortic and mitral bioprostheses].

[Article in German]

Vogt PR(1), Brunner-LaRocca HP.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Gefässchirurgie Universitätsklinikum 
Rudolf-Buchheim-Str. 7 35385 Giessen, Germany. 
paul.vogt@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de

Reoperative surgery for degenerated aortic and mitral valve bioprostheses has a 
considerable mortality. This study compares life expectancy, mode of failure and 
predictors for emergency reoperation and reoperative mortality between 
degenerated aortic and mitral bioprostheses. A total of 265 bioprosthetic valve 
patients, 172 aortic and 93 mitral patients, were followed to assess the time 
period between first and redo valve replacement. Mean life expectancy for aortic 
bioprostheses was 10.4 +/- 4.3 (2 to 28.6) years, whereas it was 10.0 +/- 3.7 
(0.9 to 20) years for mitral bioprostheses (group M). Emergency reoperation had 
to be performed in 31/172 group A (18%) and 16/93 group M (17%) patients. In 
group A, the reoperative mortality was 5.2%; it was 1.4% for elective and 22.6% 
for emergency reoperation (p < 0.0001; OR = 20.3). Reoperative mortality in 
group M patients was 5.4% and did not differ between elective and emergency 
surgery. Group A patients who died at reoperation had higher transvalvular 
gradients before the first operation (p = 0.007), received smaller sized 
bioprostheses (p = 0.03) and had a higher incidence of coronary artery disease 
(p = 0.001) and pulmonary artery hypertension (p = 0.009) acquired during the 
interval. Endocarditis being the reason for primary surgery (p = 0.004), 
postoperative pneumonia after the first procedure (p = 0.005), pulmonary artery 
hypertension (p = 0.0004), later recurrence of symptoms of valve degeneration (p 
= 0.04), acute onset of bioprosthetic regurgitation (p = 0.00002) and a lower 
left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.03) were risk factor for emergency 
surgery. There were no predictors of reoperative mortality identified in mitral 
valve patients. The life expectancy of aortic and mitral bioprostheses is 
acceptable even in a relatively young patient population (mean age 46 +/- 13 in 
group A and 45 +/- 12 years in group M patients). Patients with degenerated 
aortic bioprostheses undergoing emergency reoperation have an extraordinary high 
reoperative mortality. They can be identified as patients who had a history of 
endocarditis and higher transvalvular gradients prior to the first operation, 
who received smaller sized bioprostheses and acquired coronary artery disease 
and pulmonary artery hypertension during the interval. Thus, emergency 
reoperation is preventable, increasing overall life expectancy of patients with 
bioprostheses. There were no risk factors for reoperative mortality identified 
in bioprosthetic mitral valve patients.

PMID: 11826825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Arch Dis Child. 2002 Feb;86(2):84-9. doi: 10.1136/adc.86.2.84.

Effects of cognitive, motor, and sensory disabilities on survival in cerebral 
palsy.

Hutton JL(1), Pharoah PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK. 
j.l.hutton@warwick.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Cerebral palsy presents with a range of severity of cognitive, 
motor, and sensory disabilities, which might affect survival.
AIMS: To quantify the effects of motor, cognitive, and sensory disabilities, 
year of birth, birth weight, and gestational age on survival in cerebral palsy.
METHODS: A cohort of children with cerebral palsy born between 1966 and 1989 to 
mothers resident in a defined geographical region was subdivided into early 
impairment (EICP: cerebral insult prenatally or within 28 days of birth) or late 
impairment (LICP: insult at least 28 days after birth). Deaths are notified by 
the National Health Service Central Register. Birth and disability details were 
obtained from clinical records. Survival analyses were carried out.
RESULTS: Severe motor disability was associated with a 30 year survival of 42% 
and severe cognitive disability with a 30 year survival of 62%. Severe visual 
disability was associated with a 30 year survival of 38%, but the association of 
survival with hearing disability was weak. EICP had better survival than LICP 
but the difference was not significant after allowing for severity of functional 
disabilities. Normal birth weight infants (>/= 2500 g) showed no birth cohort 
effect, but the 10 year survival of low birth weight (<2500 g) infants declined 
from 97% for 1966 to 89% for 1989 births.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival in cerebral palsy varies according to the severity and 
number of functional disabilities and by birth weight. Among low birth weight 
children, survival declined steadily from 1966 to 1989 after allowing for 
disability. The disabilities reported do not capture all the factors affecting 
survival of preterm infants.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.86.2.84
PMCID: PMC1761069
PMID: 11827899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Semin Urol Oncol. 2002 Feb;20(1):10-7. doi: 10.1053/suro.2002.30393.

Clarifying uncertainty regarding detection and treatment of early-stage prostate 
cancer.

Wilt TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis VA Center for Chronic Disease Outcomes Research, Minneapolis, MN 
55417, USA.

Detection and treatment of prostate cancer can theoretically identify and cure a 
potentially disabling and deadly disease. However, controversy exists primarily 
because of the absence of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) documenting that 
these strategies improve survival and quality of life. In the absence of 
definitive information from RCTs, patients seek information and recommendations 
from many sources. Physicians have an opportunity to help patients and their 
families sort through the vast array of conflicting and confusing information. 
Rather then recommending for or against routine prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
testing, physicians should provide men who are interested in prostate cancer 
testing, 50 years of age and older, and have a life expectancy of at least 10 to 
15 years, with balanced information about the potential benefits and established 
harms of screening, diagnosis, and treatment. Validated informational materials 
can effectively and efficiently promote shared decision making. For early 
prostate cancer detection, the minimum information should include: the 
likelihood that prostate cancer will be diagnosed, possibilities of 
false-positive and false-negative results, anxiety associated with a positive 
test, and uncertainty regarding whether screening reduces the risk for death 
from prostate cancer. For men with localized prostate cancer, acceptable 
treatment options include radical prostatectomy, radiation therapy, cryotherapy, 
early androgen-suppression therapy, and watchful waiting. These are all 
considered acceptable options because data do not provide clear-cut evidence for 
the superiority of any 1 treatment. The only RCT comparing surgery to watchful 
waiting, though of relatively small size and conducted before PSA testing, 
showed no difference in survival after 23 years of follow-up. Watchful waiting 
does not remove prostate cancer, may miss an opportunity to cure or delay 
disease progression, and may lead to increased patient anxiety. However, 
watchful waiting avoids the harmful side effects of early intervention and does 
provide palliative therapy if and when symptomatic disease progression occurs. 
Furthermore, intervention is not necessary in the vast majority of men because 
most prostate cancers do not cause mortality or serious morbidity. Therefore, 
quality of life in many men treated with watchful waiting is superior to those 
treated with early intervention. For the minority of men with prostate cancer 
likely to cause disability or death, early intervention options may not be 
effective. Although commonly used in other countries, watchful waiting is rarely 
recommended in the United States. The opportunity exists to resolve the 
confusion, close the gaps in knowledge, and enhance prostate cancer care by 
conducting RCTs. Until these RCTs are completed, physicians can assist patients 
by providing a balanced presentation of the known risks and potential but 
unproven benefits of detection and treatment options and incorporating patient 
preferences into health care decisions.

DOI: 10.1053/suro.2002.30393
PMID: 11828353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Semin Urol Oncol. 2002 Feb;20(1):39-44. doi: 10.1053/suro.2002.30397.

Relevant patient and tumor considerations for early prostate cancer treatment.

Leak B(1), Wei JT, Gabel M, Peabody JO, Menon M, Demers R, Tewari A.

Author information:
(1)Vattikuti Urology Institute, Henry Ford Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Prostate cancer remains the most commonly diagnosed noncutaneous malignancy in 
American men. Currently, there are 3 standard treatment options available to men 
with early prostate cancer: expectant management, radiation therapy, and radical 
prostatectomy. Although a number of studies have evaluated survival after 
treatment for early prostate cancer, the optimal choice of therapy for any given 
patient remains a difficult decision and requires the consideration of a variety 
of patient and tumor factors. The final selection of therapy for early prostate 
cancer should be based on an informed discussion between the physician and 
patient. To accomplish this goal, patients must be made familiar with the 
pertinent factors that affect survival. We review the factors most relevant for 
patients to understand as they consider their treatment options for early 
prostate cancer and summarize the data for physicians who counsel them.

Copyright 2002 by W.B. Saunders Company

DOI: 10.1053/suro.2002.30397
PMID: 11828356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. JAMA. 2002 Feb 6;287(5):591-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.287.5.591.

Quality-of-life and depressive symptoms in postmenopausal women after receiving 
hormone therapy: results from the Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study 
(HERS) trial.

Hlatky MA(1), Boothroyd D, Vittinghoff E, Sharp P, Whooley MA; Heart and 
Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS) Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, HRP Redwood Bldg, Room 150, Stanford, 
CA 94305-5405, USA. hlatky@stanford.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2002 Feb 6;287(5):641-2.
    JAMA. 2002 May 1;287(17):2210-1; author reply 2211.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2002 Jul;5(3):83.
    ACP J Club. 2002 Nov-Dec;137(3):105.
    Evid Based Ment Health. 2002 Nov;5(4):112.

CONTEXT: Postmenopausal hormone therapy is commonly used by women for disease 
prevention, but its effects on quality of life have not been well documented.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect on quality of life of estrogen plus progestin 
therapy used as secondary prevention in women with coronary artery disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 2763 postmenopausal women with 
documented coronary artery disease (mean age, 67 years) in the Heart and 
Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study, a randomized, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind trial conducted from January 1993 to July 1998 at outpatient and 
community settings at 20 US clinical centers.
INTERVENTION: Participants were randomly assigned to receive either 0.625 mg/d 
of conjugated equine estrogen plus 2.5 mg/d of medroxyprogesterone acetate (n = 
1380) or placebo (n = 1383) for 36 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Physical activity, measured by the Duke Activity Status 
Index; energy/fatigue and mental health, measured by RAND scales; and depressive 
symptoms, measured on the Burnam screening scale, at 3 years of follow-up.
RESULTS: In all patients, scores declined significantly over 3 years for 
physical function (-3.8; P<.001), mental health (-0.6; P =.05), and 
energy/fatigue (-3.8; P<.001), but depressive symptoms were not significantly 
changed (P =.20). The effect of hormone therapy on these measures depended on 
the presence (n = 434) or absence (n = 2325) of flushing at study entry. Women 
with flushing who were assigned to hormone therapy had improved mental health 
(+2.6 vs - 0.5; P =.04) and fewer depressive symptoms (-0.5 vs + 0.007; P =.01) 
over follow-up compared with those assigned to placebo. Women without flushing 
who were assigned to hormone therapy had greater declines in physical function 
(-4.2 vs -3.3; P =.04) and energy/fatigue (-4.6 vs -3.1; P =.03) over follow-up. 
Quality-of-life scores were significantly lower among patients with older age, 
diabetes, hypertension, chest pain, or heart failure. These differences in 
quality of life among women classified by clinical characteristics were much 
greater than the effects of hormone therapy.
CONCLUSION: Hormone therapy has mixed effects on quality of life among older 
women. The effects of hormone therapy depend on the presence of menopausal 
symptoms; women without flushing had greater declines in physical measures, 
while women with flushing had improvements in emotional measures of quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.287.5.591
PMID: 11829697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 1999 Jun;37(6):355-7.

[Total removal of craniopharyngioma].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi X(1), Zhang M, Wu B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing 100050.

OBJECTIVE: To study the better method of surgical management of 
craniopharygioma.
METHODS: We treated 30 patients with craniopharyngioma ranged in age from 15 to 
55 years (mean: 34.13 years old). MR image showed that the tumors' diameter 
varied from 2.0 cm to 6.0 cm (mean, 3.34 cm). 17 patients had the tumor in 
suprasellar region, 11 had tumor extension in the third ventricle 2 and had the 
tumor down to insellar. Complete cystic tumor was seen in 5 patients, partial 
cystic tumor in 17, and solid tumor in 8. Calcified tumor was found in 18 
patients. Frontal temporal craniotomy was performed in all patients. The tumor 
was dissected in the parachiasmal opticocarotid, carotidotentorial spaces and 
lamina terminals. Great attention was paid to the preservation of the 
perforating arteries from the carotid, posterior and anterior communication and 
anterior choroidal arteries to the structure of the hypothalamus. The solid 
portion of the tumor was removed by piecemeal.
RESULTS: The tumor was totally removed in 29 patients and subtotally removed in 
1 patient by second surgery. Follow-up showed that 27 patients resat normal 
life, 1 patient needed assistance, 1 died 7 days after surgery from inhalation 
asphyxia, and 1 died from complications of diabetes insipidus.
CONCLUSIONS: Many different surgical approaches can be used in the treatment of 
carniopharyngioma according to the localization and extension of the tumor. 
However, avoidance of the neural structures injury in the third ventricle and 
preservation of the perforating arteries to hypothalamus are essential to 
achieving a good surgical result.

PMID: 11829860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Apr;37(4):507-12. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00230-3.

A mortality cost of virginity at older ages in female Mediterranean fruit flies.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Harshman L, Zhang Y, Müller HG, Partridge L, Wang JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, One Shields Avenue, 
Davis, CA 95616, USA. jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Mortality rates were measured over the lifetime of 65,000 female Mediterranean 
fruit flies, Ceratitis capitata, maintained in either all-female (virgin) cages 
or cages with equal initial numbers of males, to determine the effect of sexual 
activity and mating on the mortality trajectory of females at older ages. 
Although a greater fraction of females maintained in all-female (virgin) cages 
survived to older ages, the life expectancy of the surviving virgins was less 
than the life expectancy of surviving non-virgins at older ages. This was due to 
a mortality crossover where virgin flies experience lower mortality than mated 
flies from eclosion to Day 20 but higher mortality thereafter. These results 
suggest that there are two consequences of mating--a short-term mortality 
increase (cost) and a longer term mortality decrease (benefit).

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00230-3
PMID: 11830353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Apr;37(4):567-70. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00180-2.

Longevity minimalists: life table studies of two species of northern Michigan 
adult mayflies.

Carey JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, One Shields Ave., Davis, 
CA 95616, USA. jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Life table studies were conducted on both sexes of newly emerged subimagoes of 
the mayfly species, Hexagenia limbata (n = 4472) and Ephemera simulans (n = 
1254), which have two- and one-year life cycles, respectively. The expectation 
of life at emergence for H. limbata was approximately 2.6 days for both sexes 
with the last individual (a female) dying on day 8. Expectation of life for E. 
simulans was 1.6 and 2.0 days for males and females, respectively, with the last 
individuals (both sexes) dying on day 3. The results reveal that mortality does 
not occur in one large step in this group of rapidly senescing organisms. Rather 
deaths are spread over several days when the adult mayflies are maintained under 
laboratory conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00180-2
PMID: 11830359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2002 Feb 6;94(3):193-204. doi: 10.1093/jnci/94.3.193.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening: comparison of screening 
policies.

van den Akker-van Marle ME(1), van Ballegooijen M, van Oortmarssen GJ, Boer R, 
Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. vanmarle@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: Recommended screening policies for cervical cancer differ widely 
among countries with respect to targeted age range, screening interval, and 
total number of scheduled screening examinations (i.e., Pap smears). We compared 
the efficiency of cervical cancer-screening programs by performing a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of cervical cancer-screening policies from 
high-income countries.
METHODS: We used the microsimulation screening analysis (MISCAN) program to 
model and determine the costs and effects of almost 500 screening policies, some 
fictitious and some actual (i.e., recommended by national guidelines). The costs 
(in U.S. dollars) and effects (in years of life gained) were compared for each 
policy to identify the most efficient policies.
RESULTS: There were 15 efficient screening policies (i.e., no alternative policy 
exists that results in more life-years gained for lower costs). For these 
policies, which considered two to 40 total scheduled examinations, the age range 
expanded gradually from 40-52 years to 20-80 years as the screening interval 
decreased from 12 to 1.5 years. For the efficient policies, the predicted gain 
in life expectancy ranged from 11.6 to 32.4 days, compared with a gain of 46 
days if cervical cancer mortality were eliminated entirely. The average 
cost-effectiveness ratios increased from $6700 (for the longest screening 
interval) to $23 900 per life-year gained. For some countries, the recommended 
screening policies were close to efficient, but the cost-effectiveness could be 
improved by reducing the number of scheduled examinations, starting them at 
later ages, or lengthening the screening interval.
CONCLUSIONS: The basis for the diversity in the screening policies among 
high-income countries does not appear to relate to the screening policies' 
cost-effectiveness ratios, which are highly sensitive to the number of Pap 
smears offered during a lifetime.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/94.3.193
PMID: 11830609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Neuron. 2002 Jan 31;33(3):369-81. doi: 10.1016/s0896-6273(02)00572-x.

Regulation of chemosensory receptor expression and sensory signaling by the 
KIN-29 Ser/Thr kinase.

Lanjuin A(1), Sengupta P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis 
University, MS 008, 415 South Street, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.

Sensory signals regulate multiple developmental and behavioral circuits in C. 
elegans, providing a genetically tractable system in which to investigate the 
mechanisms underlying the acquisition and integration of sensory information. 
kin-29 mutants are defective in the expression of a set of chemoreceptor genes, 
and exhibit characteristics associated with altered sensory signaling, including 
increased lifespan, decreased body size, and deregulated entry into the dauer 
developmental stage. kin-29 encodes a Ser/Thr kinase with similarity to the MARK 
and AMPK/SNF1 family of kinases. We show that KIN-29 acts cell-autonomously and 
non-cell-autonomously in sensory neurons to regulate chemoreceptor expression, 
body size, and the dauer decision, suggesting that kin-29 function is essential 
for the correct acquisition and transduction of sensory information.

DOI: 10.1016/s0896-6273(02)00572-x
PMID: 11832225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2002 Mar;42(1):31-7.

A moderate carbohydrate and fat diet does not impair strength performance in 
moderately trained males.

Van Zant RS(1), Conway JM, Seale JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Findlay, Findlay, Ohio 45840, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this investigation was to study the effects of varied 
levels of dietary carbohydrate and fat intake on exercise training and high 
intensity exercise performance in moderately strength trained, aerobic trained 
and untrained males.
METHODS: Subjects (6 strength trained, 6 aerobically trained serving as an 
active control group, 6 sedentary) consumed isoenergetic diets considered either 
high CHO/low fat (HC/LF: total energy 62% CHO, 20% fat, 18% protein) or moderate 
CHO and fat (MC/MF: total energy 42% CHO, 40% fat, 18% protein) in a randomly 
assigned crossover design. Each dietary treatment was three weeks in length. 
Prior to the study and following each dietary treatment, muscular strength and 
endurance was determined (isokinetic knee extension and flexion, standard 
concentric free weight bench press).
RESULTS: No differences as a result of the dietary treatment were seen in 
isokinetic peak torque, total work production, single repetition maximum (1 RM) 
bench press, or number of bench press repetitions at 80% 1 RM. Self-reported 
exercise log data showed no dietary effect on the subject's ability to maintain 
training level.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that varying dietary macronutrient content 
(HC/LF or MC/MF) had no effect on exercise training or strength exercise 
performance in moderately trained (aerobic and strength) or sedentary males.

PMID: 11832872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Time. 2002 Jan 21;159(3):102.

Can we learn to beat the reaper? Science has been winning battles against old 
age, but can it win the war?

Kluger J.

PMID: 11833121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Transplantation. 2001 Dec 27;72(12 Suppl):S94-8.

Clinical audit and long-term evaluation of renal transplant recipients.

Short CD, Russell S, Valentine A.

Renal transplant recipients now have an increased life expectancy, and this has 
highlighted the need for increased concern about the long-term complications 
associated with transplantation. To better manage renal transplant recipients 
over the long term, it is essential to schedule periodic clinic visits to detect 
problems and intervene in a timely fashion. Besides enabling early detection and 
possible treatment, periodic visits permit continuing patient education. 
Unfortunately, there is no scientifically based consensus that indicates what 
the optimal frequency and timing of such visits should be, although the AST has 
recently issued some guidelines. At the MINT, an Annual Review Clinic has been 
implemented to provide better service to renal transplant recipients over the 
long term. The clinic offers a comprehensive medical assessment, identifies and 
quantifies risk factors for CVD, and initiates referrals to appropriate 
specialists. The Annual Review Clinic increases patient awareness in a number of 
areas specific to transplantation, promotes a positive approach to healthcare, 
enables collection of structured data for analysis, and, with hope, engenders a 
significant degree of patient well-being and satisfaction. The medical community 
needs to continue long-term patient evaluation and clinical audit as means to 
improve long-term patient and graft survival, as well as patient quality of 
life.

PMID: 11833148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Med Decis Making. 2002 Jan-Feb;22(1):27-38. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0202200103.

Comparison of health state utilities using community and patient preference 
weights derived from a survey of patients with HIV/AIDS.

Schackman BR(1), Goldie SJ, Freedberg KA, Losina E, Brazier J, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2003 Nov-Dec;23(6):542; author reply 543.

OBJECTIVES: The authors compare health state utilities derived from a national 
survey of patients with HIV/AIDS to represent community-based preferences with 
utilities derived from the same survey representing patient preferences; explore 
the relationships between these utilities and the dimensions of the SF-6D health 
state classification; and examine the implications of differences in the source 
of utilities for a cost-effectiveness analysis of early treatment of patients 
with HIV/AIDS.
METHODS: The authors derived community-based standard gamble (SG) utilities 
using an algorithm developed for the SF-6D health state classification system. 
The authors derived patient SG utilities from HIV/AIDS patient rating scale 
self-assessments using a power transformation. Data were from the HIV Cost and 
Services Utilization Study, a probability sample of 2864 HIV-infected adults 
receiving care in the United States in 1996.
RESULTS: Patient SG utilities were higher than community SG utilities by 4% to 
9% (0.979 vs. 0.937, 0.910 vs. 0.841, and 0.845 vs. 0.778; P < 0.001 for all 
comparisons). In regression analyses, patient SG utilities were less influenced 
by physical functioning, pain, and mental health dimensions of the SF-6D. The 
base case results of a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing early 
antiretroviral therapy to deferred therapy were unaffected by the choice between 
community ($20,100 per quality-adjusted life year) and patient ($18,400 per 
quality-adjusted life year) perspectives. The impact of the choice of utilities 
remained small in sensitivity analyses that varied the influence of treatment 
side effects on utilities and the initial symptom status of patients.
CONCLUSION: There are differences between community and patient utilities for 
HIV/AIDS health states, although even when treatment side effects are important, 
these differences may not affect cost-effectiveness ratios.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200103
PMID: 11833663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Ann Thorac Surg. 2002 Jan;73(1):17-27; discussion 27-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03236-2.

Yearly rupture or dissection rates for thoracic aortic aneurysms: simple 
prediction based on size.

Davies RR(1), Goldstein LJ, Coady MA, Tittle SL, Rizzo JA, Kopf GS, Elefteriades 
JA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiothoracic Surgery and School of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.

BACKGROUND: Prior work has clarified the cumulative, lifetime risk of rupture or 
dissection based on the size of thoracic aneurysms. Ability to estimate simply 
the yearly rate of rupture or dissection would greatly enhance clinical decision 
making for specific patients. Calculation of such a rate requires robust data.
METHODS: Data on 721 patients (446 male, 275 female; median age, 65.8 years; 
range, 8 to 95 years) with thoracic aortic disease was prospectively entered 
into a computerized database over 9 years. Three thousand one hundred fifteen 
imaging studies were available on these patients. Five hundred seventy met 
inclusion criteria in terms of length of follow-up and form the basis for the 
survival analysis. Three hundred four patients were dissection-free at 
presentation; their natural history was followed for rupture, dissection, and 
death. Patients were excluded from analysis once operation occurred.
RESULTS: Five-year survival in patients not operated on was 54% at 5 years. 
Ninety-two hard end points were realized in serial follow-up, including 55 
deaths, 13 ruptures, and 24 dissections. Aortic size was a very strong predictor 
of rupture, dissection, and mortality. For aneurysms greater than 6 cm in 
diameter, rupture occurred at 3.7% per year, rupture or dissection at 6.9% per 
year, death at 11.8%, and death, rupture, or dissection at 15.6% per year. At 
size greater than 6.0 cm, the odds ratio for rupture was increased 27-fold (p = 
0.0023). The aorta grew at a mean of 0.10 cm per year. Elective, preemptive 
surgical repair restored life expectancy to normal.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that (1) thoracic aneurysm is a lethal 
disease; (2) aneurysm size has a profound impact on rupture, dissection, and 
death; (3) for counseling purposes, the patient with an aneurysm exceeding 6 cm 
can expect a yearly rate of rupture or dissection of at least 6.9% and a death 
rate of 11.8%; and (4) elective surgical repair restores survival to near 
normal. This analysis strongly supports careful radiologic follow-up and 
elective, preemptive surgical intervention for the otherwise lethal condition of 
large thoracic aortic aneurysm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03236-2
PMID: 11834007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Ann Thorac Surg. 2002 Jan;73(1):209-17; discussion 217-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03082-x.

Lung transplantation for pulmonary vascular disease.

Mendeloff EN(1), Meyers BF, Sundt TM, Guthrie TJ, Sweet SC, de la Morena M, 
Shapiro S, Balzer DT, Trulock EP, Lynch JP, Pasque MK, Cooper JD, Huddleston CB, 
Patterson GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA. mendeloffe@msnotes.wustl.edu

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary hypertension (PHT) is a lethal condition resulting in 
markedly diminished life expectancy. Continuous prostaglandin I2 infusion has 
made an important contribution to symptom management, but it is not a panacea. 
Lung or heart-lung transplantation remains an important treatment option for 
end-stage PHT patients unresponsive to prostaglandin I2. This study reviews the 
outcomes after transplantation for PHT in our program.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed for 100 consecutive patients 
with either primary PHT (48%) or secondary PHT (52%) transplants since 1989. 
Living recipients were contacted to confirm health and functional status.
RESULTS: Fifty-five adult and 45 pediatric patients underwent 51 bilateral lung 
transplants, 39 single lung transplants, and 10 heart-lung transplants. Mean age 
was 23.7 years (range, 1.2 months to 54.8 years) and mean pre-transplant New 
York Heart Association class was 3.2. Pre-transplant hemodynamics revealed a 
mean right atrial pressure of 9.6+/-5.4 mm Hg and mean pulmonary artery pressure 
of 64+/-14.4 mm Hg. Hospital mortality was 17% with early death predominantly 
because of graft failure and infection. With an average follow-up of 5.0 years, 
1- and 5-year actuarial survival was 75% and 57%, respectively. Mean pulmonary 
artery pressure on follow-up catheterization was 22+/-6.0 mm Hg, and mean 
follow-up New York Heart Association class was 1.3 (p < 0.001 for both compared 
with pre-transplant). Diagnosis and type of transplant did not confer a 
significant difference in survival between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Whereas lung or heart-lung transplant for PHT is associated with 
higher early mortality than other pulmonary disease entities, it provides 
similar long-term outcomes with dramatic improvement in both quality of life and 
physiologic aspects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03082-x
PMID: 11834012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Food Addit Contam. 2002 Mar;19(3):314-22. doi: 10.1080/02652030110072704.

Shelf life extension of pre-baked buns by an ACTIVE PACKAGING ethanol emitter.

Franke I(1), Wijma E, Bouma K.

Author information:
(1)Inspectorate for Health Protection and Veterinary Public Health, Groningen, 
The Netherlands.

The paper reports the influence of an ethanol emitter (Ethicap) on the 
microbiological condition and the shelf life extension of a bakery product. 
Pre-baked buns, with a water activity of 0.95, were packaged with different 
amounts of Ethicap and stored at room temperature. Yeasts and moulds remained 
largely absent from the core of the pre-baked bun (< 10(2) cfu g(-1)) during 
storage, independent of the presence of ethanol. The total mesophilic count was 
low at the beginning of the storage experiment (< 10(2) cfu g(-1)), but 
increased without ethanol within 1 week to an unacceptable level. In the 
presence of ethanol, the total mesophilic count stabilizes at a consumable level 
of 10(5)-10(6) cfu g(-1). The increase of total mesophilic count was caused by 
growth of a Bacillus spp., probably B. subtilis. Mould growth on the outer 
surface is limiting for shelf life extension. On the pre-baked buns, the 
following moulds were present: Penicillium solitum, P. commune, P. corylophilum, 
Cladosporium sphaerospermum and C. herbarum. These started to grow within 4-6 
days. Mould growth can be delayed for 13 days by adding Ethicap. The ethanol 
probably has to be absorbed by the pre-baked bun to be effective in growth 
suppression of the Bacillus spp. the moulds. The pre-baked buns absorb most of 
the ethanol from the package headspace, and the ethanol content of the products 
is approximately 0.8 weight% after 21 days. This largely exceeds the overall 
migration limit of 60 mg kg(-1) food (0.006 weight%).

DOI: 10.1080/02652030110072704
PMID: 11834079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Strength Cond Res. 2002 Feb;16(1):123-8.

Effects of low-intensity resistance exercise with short interset rest period on 
muscular function in middle-aged women.

Takarada Y(1), Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Arts and Science, University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. CYM06016@niftyserve.or.jp.

We investigated the effect of low-intensity resistance exercise training on 
muscular size and strength where the interset rest period was shortened so as to 
reduce the metabolite clearance. Female subjects (aged 45.4 +/- 9.5 years, n = 
10) performed bilateral knee extension exercises in a seated position on an 
isotonic leg extension machine. The exercise sessions consisted of 3 sets of 
exercise at a mean intensity of approximately 50% 1RM with an interset rest 
period of 30 seconds and was performed twice a week for a period of 12 weeks. 
The strength and the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the knee extensors and 
flexors were examined with an isokinetic dynamometer and magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI), respectively. The CSAs of the knee extensors and flexors 
increased by 7.1 +/- 1.6% (p < 0.01, Wilcoxon signed rank test) and 2.5 +/- 1.4% 
(not significant), respectively. Isometric and isokinetic strengths increased 
significantly (p < 0.01) at all velocities examined, whereas no significant 
change was observed in those of knee flexors. These results indicate that a 
low-intensity resistance exercise with a short interset rest period is 
substantially effective in inducing muscular hypertrophy and concomitant 
increase in strength.

PMID: 11834117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2002 Feb;21(2):226-32. doi: 
10.1016/s1053-2498(01)00352-7.

Assessment of survival benefit after lung transplantation by patient diagnosis.

Charman SC(1), Sharples LD, McNeil KD, Wallwork J.

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital National Health Service (NHS) Trust, Papworth Everard, 
Institute of Public Health, University Forvie Site, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    J Heart Lung Transplant. 2003 Jun;22(6):705; author reply 705.

BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation has become an established procedure for 
treating patients with endstage lung disease, resulting in broadening criteria 
for recipient selection. The survival benefit for some patient groups has yet to 
be established.
METHODS: We reviewed 653 patients accepted for lung transplantation at our 
center. Patients were categorized into 6 diagnosis groups: cystic fibrosis 
(174), obstructive lung disease (163), pulmonary fibrosis (100), Eisenmenger's 
syndrome (76), pulmonary hypertension (68), bronchiectasis (51), and other (21). 
Using Cox regression, we estimated the time at which early operative risk of 
death fell below pre-operative risk levels (crossover point) and the point at 
which early high post-operative risk was offset by later low risk (equity 
point). The relative benefits of single lung vs double lung/heart-lung 
transplantation were assessed for patients with obstructive lung disease and 
pulmonary fibrosis.
