RESULTS: Post-operative risk of death fell below pre-operative risk levels for 
all diagnosis groups, indicating a survival advantage. The equity point was 
achieved for all distinct diagnosis groups (except Eisenmenger's); this survival 
benefit was significant for patients with obstructive lung disease, cystic 
fibrosis, and pulmonary hypertension. Single lung vs double lung/ heart-lung 
comparisons showed no significant difference in survival benefit.
CONCLUSION: All survival benefit patient groups achieve after lung 
transplantation, with the exception of patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome, who 
may have prolonged survival while listed. Differences in survival benefit 
between single lung and double or heart-lung transplantation are not significant 
for patients with obstructive lung disease or pulmonary fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s1053-2498(01)00352-7
PMID: 11834351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Teratology. 2002 Jan;65(1):5-9. doi: 10.1002/tera.1092.

Pregnancy outcome post renal transplantation.

Sgro MD(1), Barozzino T, Mirghani HM, Sermer M, Moscato L, Akoury H, Koren G, 
Chitayat DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Mount Sinai Hospital, The University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The success in performing organ transplantations and prevention of 
rejection has resulted not only in a substantial increase in life expectancy, 
but also improvement in the patients' quality of life. Thus, women who underwent 
organ transplantation are now reaching puberty and the age of reproduction. This 
has presented new challenges regarding the teratogenicity and the long-term 
effect of immunosuppressive medications used by these patients. Previous studies 
have shown that pregnancies after renal transplantation are associated with an 
increased risk for both the mother and the fetus. There is, however, very little 
information available on neonatal and long-term pediatric follow-up of babies 
born to mothers who have undergone renal transplantation and have been exposed 
to immunosuppressive medications, compared to controls. We report the experience 
of our center, the largest in Canada, regarding the prenatal and long-term 
postnatal outcome of pregnancies after renal transplantation.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series reporting the outcome of 44 
consecutive pregnancies followed by the Toronto Renal Transplant Program. 
Follow-up data were gathered on the 32 live born children by either a return 
visit to the clinic or by telephone interview. Medical, as well as developmental 
information, was gathered on all children and the study group was compared to 
controls, matched for maternal age (+/-2 years) and smoking status, obtained 
through the Motherisk Program.
RESULTS: Of the 44 pregnancies followed by us, there were 32 live-born children 
delivered by 26 mothers and 12 stillborn/abortuses. Twenty-six pregnancies were 
treated with cyclosporine, azathioprine and prednisone, 13 with azathioprine and 
prednisone and five with cyclosporine and prednisone. The mean gestational age 
at delivery in the study group was 36.5 +/- 2.7 weeks compared to 40.2 +/- 1.6 
weeks in the control group (P < 0.001). The mean birthweight in the study group 
was 2.54 +/- 0.67 kg, compared to 3.59 +/- 0.53 kg in the control group (P < 
0.0001). In the study group there was one child with multiple anomalies and four 
stillbirths compared to zero in the control group. There were also six 
spontaneous abortions and two therapeutic abortions in the study group. On 
follow-up (from 3 months to 11 years of age) there was one child with 
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, two children with asthma and one child with 
recurrent otitis media. Developmental follow-up revealed one child with moderate 
to severe sensorineural hearing loss, one child with a learning disability and 
one child with pervasive developmental disorder. In none of these cases were 
there signs of perinatal asphyxia.
CONCLUSION: There are significantly more stillbirths, preterm deliveries and 
increased incidence of low birth weight in the transplant group. Most 
pregnancies in the study group went well, however, and their offspring had 
normal postnatal growth and development. Further studies with long-term 
pediatric follow-up are needed to delineate their outcome and rule out possible 
long term effects of the immunosuppressive medication on their growth, 
development, reproduction and general health.

Copyright 2002 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/tera.1092
PMID: 11835226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Radiat Res. 2002 Feb;157(2):183-90. doi: 
10.1667/0033-7587(2002)157[0183:cetagl]2.0.co;2.

Chronic exposure to a GSM-like signal (mobile phone) does not stimulate the 
development of DMBA-induced mammary tumors in rats: results of three consecutive 
studies.

Bartsch H(1), Bartsch C, Seebald E, Deerberg F, Dietz K, Vollrath L, Mecke D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Medical and Natural Sciences, University of Tübingen, 
Tübingen, Germany. hella.bartsch@uni-tuebingen.de

Certain epidemiological and experimental studies raised concerns about the 
safety of radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields because of a possible 
increased risk of leukemia and lymphoma. In this study, an RF field used in 
mobile telecommunication was tested using 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene 
(DMBA)-induced mammary tumors in female Sprague-Dawley rats as a model for human 
breast cancer. Three experiments were carried out under strictly standardized 
conditions and were started on the same day of three consecutive years. The 
field consisted of a GSM-like signal (900 MHz pulsed at 217 Hz, pulse width 577 
micros) of relatively low power flux density (100 microW/cm(2) +/- 3 dB) and was 
applied continuously throughout each experiment to freely moving animals. The 
specific absorption rates averaged over the whole body were 17.5-70 mW/kg. The 
highest values in young animals were at or around the exposure limit permissible 
for the general public (i.e. 80 mW/kg). The animals were palpated weekly for the 
presence of mammary tumors and were killed humanely when tumors reached a 
diameter of 1-2 cm to allow a reliable histopathological classification and a 
distinction between malignant and benign subtypes. The overall results of the 
three studies are that there was no statistically significant effect of RF-field 
exposure on tumor latency and that the cumulative tumor incidence at the end of 
the experiment was unaffected as well. The risk ratios were 1.08 (95% CI: 
0.91-1.29) and 0.96 (95% CI: 0.85-1.07) for benign and malignant tumors, 
respectively. These observations are in agreement with other published findings. 
In the first experiment, however, the median latency for the development of the 
first malignant tumor in each animal was statistically significantly extended 
for RF-field-exposed animals compared to controls (278 days compared to 145 
days, P = 0.009). No such differences were detected in the two subsequent 
experiments. These results show that low-level RF radiation does not appear to 
possess carcinogenic or cancer-promoting effects on DMBA-induced mammary tumors. 
To explain the mechanisms underlying the different results obtained in the three 
experiments, a hypothesis is presented which is based upon the neuroendocrine 
control mechanisms involved in the promotion of DMBA-induced mammary tumors. 
Despite the apparent absence of stimulatory effects of low-level RF-field 
exposure on the development and growth of solid tumors, it will be necessary to 
verify these results for leukemias and lymphomas, which may have completely 
different biological control mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1667/0033-7587(2002)157[0183:cetagl]2.0.co;2
PMID: 11835682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Haematologica. 2002 Feb;87(2):154-66.

Prognostic value of karyotypic analysis in children and adults with high-risk 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia included in the PETHEMA ALL-93 trial.

Ribera JM(1), Ortega JJ, Oriol A, Granada I, Hernández-Rivas JM, Parody R, 
Bethencourt C, Rivas C, Bastida P, del Potro E, González-Valentín ME, Moreno MJ, 
Besalduch J, Fernández-Calvo J, Tormo M, Arias J, Molinés A, Sanz MA, Maldonado 
J, Millá F, Feliu E, San Miguel JF; PETHEMA Group, Spanish Society of 
Hematology.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Department and Hematopoietic Progenitor Transplant Unit, Hospital 
Universitari Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Spain. jmribera@ns.hugtip.scs.es

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Cytogenetic analysis is one of the most reliable 
prognostic factors in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The objective of this study 
was to analyze the prognostic value of cytogenetic analysis in children and 
adults with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (HR-ALL) included in a 
prospective multicenter trial.
DESIGN AND METHODS: One hundred and thirty patients (44 children and 86 adults) 
with HR-ALL included in the PETHEMA ALL-93 trial had an adequate cytogenetic 
study after review. Cytogenetic subgroups were established according to the 
cancer and acute leukemia group B criteria (unfavorable: 11q23, t(9;22), -7 and 
+8; normal; miscellaneous: the remaining chromosome abnormalities) and their 
main clinicobiological features were compared. Univariable and multivariable 
analyses for complete remission (CR) attainment, event-free survival (EFS) and 
overall survival (OS) were performed.
RESULTS: The mean SD age was 26 14 years. Two were infants (<1 year), 42 were 
children and 86 adults (19-50 years). The cytogenetic study was normal in 44 
(34%) cases. The most frequent chromosomal rearrangement was t(9;22)(q34;q11) 
(34 cases, 26%, 30 adults), followed by 11q23 (12 cases, 9% -8 children-, 
including t(4;11)(q21;q23) in 8, 7 children). Patients with t(9;22) were older 
than the remaining cases, whereas those with 11q23 rearrangements were younger 
and had higher WBC counts. Multivariable analyses showed two associated factors 
in adults with a lower frequency of CR and a shorter EFS and OS: t(9;22) and 
slow response to therapy (assessed by a percentage of blast cells higher than 
10% in bone marrow study on day 14). For children with very high-risk ALL, only 
slow response to therapy (assessed by the presence of blast cells in peripheral 
blood on day 8) was associated with a negative impact on CR, EFS and OS.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In adult patients with high-risk acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia included in the PETHEMA ALL-93 protocol, cytogenetic 
analysis at diagnosis is a useful independent prognostic marker. The poorest 
prognosis for patients with t(9;22) justifies the development of specific 
treatments for these patients. In this small subgroup of children with very 
high-risk ALL no cytogenetic characteristics was found to influence the results 
of therapy, slow response to therapy being the only prognostic factor.

PMID: 11836166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Haematologica. 2002 Feb;87(2):217-8.

Peripheral blood CD38 expression predicts time to progression in B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia after first-line therapy with high-dose chlorambucil.

Morabito F, Mangiola M, Stelitano C, Deaglio S, Callea V, Malavasi F.

CD38 expression by B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells has been 
the focus of several recent studies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
prognostic impact of CD38 expression by peripheral blood lymphocytes on 
progression-free survival after first-line therapy with high-dose chlorambucil 
in 53 previously untreated patients affected by typical CD5+ CD23+ B-CLL.

PMID: 11836173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Haematologica. 2002 Feb;87(2):219-20.

The influence of the graft monocytes in the outcome of allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation.

Aranha FJ, Vigorito AC, De Sousa CA, Oliveira GB, Zulli R, Lorand-Metze I.

The influence of graft monocytes on graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) has not yet 
been established in clinical trials. To understand this association better, we 
evaluated the influence of bone marrow graft monocytes aiming to analyze, 
primarily, the correlation with acute GVHD and chronic GVHD and, secondarily, 
the correlation with engraftment and survival.

PMID: 11836174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Haematologica. 2002 Feb;87(2):ELT06.

Cryopreserving with increased cellular concentrations of peripheral blood 
progenitor cells: clinical results.

Villalón L(1), Odriozola J, Ramos P, Ramos ML, Herrera P, de Oteyza JP.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Ramón y Cajal. Madrid, Spain.

PMID: 11836183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Am J Epidemiol. 2002 Feb 15;155(4):354-60. doi: 10.1093/aje/155.4.354.

Relation of cigarette smoking to 25-year mortality in middle-aged men with low 
baseline serum cholesterol: the Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in 
Industry.

Blanco-Cedres L(1), Daviglus ML, Garside DB, Liu K, Pirzada A, Stamler J, 
Greenland P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Medical School, 
Chicago, IL 60611-4402, USA.

It has been suggested that smoking does not influence risk of cardiovascular 
diseases in populations with low serum cholesterol levels. To determine whether 
cigarette smoking is an independent risk factor among men with low levels of 
serum cholesterol, data on 25-year coronary, cardiovascular, and all-cause 
mortality for 8,816 middle-aged men screened between 1967 and 1973 by the 
Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry were examined. With Cox 
multivariate proportional hazards regression, relative risks of coronary heart 
disease and cardiovascular disease mortality associated with smoking for the two 
subcohorts with favorable levels of serum total cholesterol, that is, less than 
180 and 180-199 mg/dl, were of the same magnitude as those for men with elevated 
serum cholesterol, that is, 200-239 and 240 mg/dl. In the two lower strata of 
cholesterol, the absolute risk and absolute excess risk of mortality for current 
smokers at baseline were substantially higher compared with men who never 
smoked, with all-cause death rates of 423.0 and 428.0 per 1,000 and absolute 
excess rates of 209.8 and 225.7 per 1,000. These translate to estimated shorter 
life expectancies of 5.3 and 5.7 years, respectively. Adverse effects of smoking 
on risk of coronary, cardiovascular, and all-cause mortality prevail for men 
with lower as well as higher serum cholesterol levels.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/155.4.354
PMID: 11836200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2002 Feb;31(4):271-8. doi: 10.1053/sarh.2002.29492.

Spontaneous pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis in nondrug users.

Nolla JM(1), Ariza J, Gómez-Vaquero C, Fiter J, Bermejo J, Valverde J, Escofet 
DR, Gudiol F.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department and Infectious Diseases Department, Ciutat Sanitària 
i Universitària de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain. 28634apj@comb.es

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the clinical, microbiological, and radiologic features of 
patients without drug addiction suffering from spontaneous pyogenic vertebral 
osteomyelitis.
METHODS: We collected all microbiologically proved cases of pyogenic vertebral 
osteomyelitis seen between January 1980 and December 1999 in a teaching 
hospital. Patients with prior spinal instrumentation or surgery and injection 
drug users were excluded.
RESULTS: Sixty-four patients, with a mean age of 59 +/- 17 years, were 
identified. In 29 (45%) patients, 1 or more underlying medical illnesses were 
found. The mean duration of symptoms before hospital admission was 48 +/- 40 
days. Neurologic impairment was present in 18 (28%) patients. Staphylococcus 
aureus and gram-negative bacilli, mainly Escherichia coli, were the predominant 
etiologic agents. Blood cultures were positive in 72% (46/64) of cases. The 
cultures of spinal specimens obtained by x-ray-guided biopsy were positive in 
52% (11/21) of cases, and those obtained by open biopsy in 75% (15/20) of cases. 
Plain radiography showed abnormalities in all but 7 patients. Fifty-one of 53 
(96%) technetium Tc 99m diphosphonate bone scans and 40 of 44 (91%) gallium 
citrate Ga 67 bone scans showed increased uptake of tracers in the involved 
area. Paraspinal and epidural extension was found on computed tomography and/or 
magnetic resonance imaging in 74% (39/53) of cases; the presence of an 
extra-vertebral extension was not associated with the development of neurologic 
findings in many patients. Two patients died in relation to the infectious 
process and 3 relapsed; functional sequelae often were found.
CONCLUSIONS: Spontaneous pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis in nondrug users is a 
disease that affects mainly older patients suffering underlying medical 
illnesses. S aureus and E coli are the main causative microorganisms. Positive 
blood cultures frequently aided the diagnosis. Extra-vertebral extension is 
frequent but does not indicate a worse prognosis. Although life outcome is good, 
functional sequelae are common. Diagnostic delay before admission is a concern, 
and the physician should be alert to the possibility of this condition in 
patients with back or neck pain.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/sarh.2002.29492
PMID: 11836660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 2002 Feb;13(1):24-37. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2010.0366.

Cervical cancer and black women: an analysis of the disparity in prevalence of 
cervical cancer.

Rodney P, Rodney ZK, Nu S, Hemans-Richards JE.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2010.0366
PMID: 11836911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Med Decis Making. 2002 Jan-Feb;22(1):53-64. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0202200105.

Discrepancies between chained and classic utilities induced by anchoring with 
occasional adjustments.

Stalmeier PF(1).

Author information:
(1)Nijmegen Institute for Cognition and Information, The Netherlands. 
stalmeier@nici.kun.nl

BACKGROUND: Classic utility assessment uses death and perfect health as end 
points. Chained utility assessment uses other health states as endpoints. It has 
been previously noted that these 2 assessment procedures lead to different 
utilities.
PURPOSE: The author attempts to explain these discrepancies between chained and 
classic assessments.
METHOD: Previous data are plotted in a uniform way to facilitate comparison. 
Using time trade-off and paired-comparison data, the author estimates the extent 
to which respondents adjust their responses when end points are varied. Data 
were obtained in various samples: in healthy volunteers from the general public, 
in students, and in women at high risk for breast cancer seeking genetic 
counseling.
RESULTS: The author obtained 741 valid data records from a total of 106 
participants. The data replicate the pattern found previously. When compared to 
classic utilities, (1) chained utilities are smaller (larger) when the best 
(worst) endpoint varies and (2) the discrepancies become smaller for utilities 
near 0 and 1. The data reveal that there is a distinct failure to adjust 
responses when the end points are varied, as if the responses anchor on some 
master health scale. The latter finding explains the robust pattern of 
discrepancies.
CONCLUSION: Decision analyses that use a mix of classic and chained utilities 
are not on firm ground. One should be wary of normative interpretations of new 
value assessment procedures. Alternative interpretations of the findings are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200105
PMID: 11837249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Circulation. 2002 Feb 12;105(6):680-4. doi: 10.1161/hc0602.103584.

Cost-effectiveness of a conservative, ischemia-guided management strategy after 
non-Q-wave myocardial infarction: results of a randomized trial.

Barnett PG(1), Chen S, Boden WE, Chow B, Every NR, Lavori PW, Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, Calif, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2002 Feb 12;105(6):666-8.

BACKGROUND: Use of coronary angiography after myocardial infarction has been 
controversial, with some physicians advocating routine use and others advocating 
selective use only after documentation of residual myocardial ischemia. The 
effects of these strategies on economic outcomes have not been established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed data from a randomized, controlled clinical 
trial conducted in 17 Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals that enrolled 876 
clinically uncomplicated patients 24 to 72 hours after an acute non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction. The routine invasive strategy included early coronary 
angiography with revascularization based on established guidelines. The 
conservative, ischemia-guided strategy included noninvasive testing with 
radionuclide ventriculography and exercise thallium scintigraphy, followed by 
coronary angiography in patients with objective evidence of myocardial ischemia. 
We measured the cost of hospitalization and outpatient visits and tests during 
follow-up and calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. The 
conservative, ischemia-guided strategy had lower costs than the routine invasive 
strategy, both during the initial hospitalization ($14 733 versus $19 256, 
P<0.001) and after a mean follow-up of 1.9 years ($39 707 versus $41 893, 
P=0.04). The hazard ratio for death was 0.72 (confidence limits, 0.51 to 1.01) 
in the conservative strategy. The conservative strategy had lower costs and 
better outcomes in 76% of 1000 bootstrap replications, and a cost-effectiveness 
ratio below $50 000 per year of life added in 96% of replications.
CONCLUSIONS: A conservative, ischemia-guided strategy of selective coronary 
angiography and revascularization for patients who develop objective evidence of 
recurrent ischemia is more cost-effective than a strategy of routine coronary 
angiography after uncomplicated non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1161/hc0602.103584
PMID: 11839621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Biol Chem. 2002 Apr 26;277(17):14589-97. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M200316200. Epub
 2002 Feb 11.

Effects of a guanine-derived formamidopyrimidine lesion on DNA replication: 
translesion DNA synthesis, nucleotide insertion, and extension kinetics.

Asagoshi K(1), Terato H, Ohyama Y, Ide H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan.

2,6-Diamino-4-hydroxy-5-formamidopyrimidine derived from guanine (FapyG) is a 
major DNA lesion formed by reactive oxygen species. In this study, a defined 
oligonucleotide template containing a 5-N-methylated analog of FapyG (mFapyG) 
was prepared, and its effect on DNA replication was quantitatively assessed in 
vitro. The results were further compared with those obtained for 
7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine and an apurinic/apyrimidinic site embedded in the same 
sequence context. mFapyG constituted a fairly strong but not absolute block to 
DNA synthesis catalyzed by Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment 
with and without an associated 3'-5' exonuclease activity, thereby permitting 
translesion synthesis with a limited efficiency. The efficiency of translesion 
synthesis was G > 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine > mFapyG > apurinic/apyrimidinic 
site. Analysis of the nucleotide insertion (f(ins) = V(max)/K(m) for insertion) 
and extension (f(ext) = V(max)/K(m) for extension) efficiencies for mFapyG 
revealed that the extension step constituted a major kinetic barrier to DNA 
synthesis. When mFapyG was bypassed, dCMP, a cognate nucleotide, was 
preferentially inserted opposite the lesion (dCMP (relative f(ins) = 1) dTMP 
(2.4 x 10(-4)) approximately dAMP (8.1 x 10(-5)) > dGMP (4.5 x 10(-7))), and the 
primer terminus containing a mFapyG:C pair was most efficiently extended 
(mFapyG:C (relative f(ext) = 1) > mFapyG:T (4.6 x 10(-3)) mFapyG:A and mFapyG:G 
(extension not observed)). Thus, mFapyG is a potentially lethal but not 
premutagenic lesion.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M200316200
PMID: 11839760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Am J Orthod Dentofacial Orthop. 2002 Feb;121(2):110-9; quiz 193. doi: 
10.1067/mod.2002.119979.

Outcome of tooth transplantation: survival and success rates 17-41 years 
posttreatment.

Czochrowska EM(1), Stenvik A, Bjercke B, Zachrisson BU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, University of Oslo, Blindern, 0315 Oslo, Norway.

The literature contains no follow-up studies of transplanted teeth with mean 
observation times exceeding 10 years. This article describes long-term outcomes, 
including gingival and periodontal conditions, and the patients' attitudes about 
treatment and outcome. The material comprised all accessible patients in the 
files of the Department of Orthodontics, University of Oslo, Norway, on whom 
treatment had been performed at least 17 years ago (n = 28). Established 
clinical criteria were used to assess tooth mobility, plaque and gingival 
indexes, and probing pocket depth. Standardized radiography was used to evaluate 
the presence of pathology, pulp obliteration, and root length. Similar 
recordings were obtained from the in situ tooth contralateral to the initial 
position of the grafted tooth. Criteria for determining treatment success were 
established. All patients responded to questions about their treatment using 
visual analogue scales. The mean age at surgery was 11.5 years, and the mean 
observation period was 26.4 years (range, 17-41 years). Of the 33 teeth 
transplanted in the 28 patients, 3 teeth were lost after 9, 10, and 29 years, 
respectively. Therefore, the 30 teeth in the 25 patients we examined yielded a 
survival rate of 90%. The success rate was 79% because 2 transplants had 
ankylosed, and 2 others failed to fulfill the proposed criteria. The patients 
generally responded very favorably regarding their perception of the treatment. 
Their only hesitation was related to some discomfort during surgery. It was 
concluded that survival and success rates for teeth autotransplanted when the 
root is partly developed compare favorably in a long-term perspective with other 
treatment modalities for substituting missing teeth.

DOI: 10.1067/mod.2002.119979
PMID: 11840123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Hum Hypertens. 2002 Jan;16(1):21-31. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001288.

Weak effect of hypertension and other classic risk factors in the elderly who 
have already paid their toll.

Casiglia E(1), Mazza A, Tikhonoff V, Pavei A, Privato G, Schenal N, Pessina AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Laboratory of Epidemiology, 
University of Padova, Italy. edoardo.casiglia@unipd.it

The aim of the CASTEL, a population-based (n=3282) prospective study which began 
14 years ago, was to identify those items which had a prognostic impact in the 
elderly, and to evaluate whether the typical cardiovascular risk factors, 
particularly arterial hypertension, play a role after the age of 65 years. 
Initial screening, final follow-up and annual detection of mortality were 
performed. Mantel-Hanszel approach and multivariate Cox model were used for 
statistics. Cardiovascular mortality was 23.3% in normotensive, 23.3% in 
borderline, and 25% in the sustained hypertensive subjects (insignificant 
difference). In women, the incidence of stroke and coronary artery disease 
weakly depended on pulse pressure. Historical stroke and myocardial infarction 
predicted cardiovascular mortality in women; diabetes, uricaemia and high heart 
rate in men. In the very old, the predictors were less numerous, and blood 
pressure was not a predictor whatsoever; pulse blood pressure and murmurs at the 
neck were especially predictive in women, historical heart failure, proteinuria 
and tachycardia in men, historical stroke and myocardial infarction, pulmonary 
disease, left ventricular hypertrophy, diabetes and uricaemia in both genders. 
The elderly have a different cardiovascular risk pattern compared to younger 
people. Hypertension is not a predictor of coronary and stroke mortality. 
Prognosis depends on pulse pressure rather than on the label 'hypertension'. 
Hypercholesterolaemia is not a risk factor. This could simply indicate that 
elderly persons are the survivors in a population where significant mortality 
has already made its mark, eliminating those with the worst risk pattern. The 
two genders have a different risk profile due to sex-specific susceptibility to 
risk factors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001288
PMID: 11840226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Leukemia. 2002 Jan;16(1):22-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402340.

High Bad and Bax mRNA expression correlate with negative outcome in acute 
myeloid leukemia (AML).

Köhler T(1), Schill C, Deininger MW, Krahl R, Borchert S, Hasenclever D, 
Leiblein S, Wagner O, Niederwieser D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Chemistry and Molecular 
Diagnostics, Division of Molecular Diagnostics, University of Leipzig Medical 
School, Leipzig, Germany.

The search for molecular markers in AML that allow prediction of outcome has 
recently focused on genes involved in the regulation of programmed cell death 
(PCD). The aim of our study was to determine whether mRNA levels of Mdm-2, 
Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), Bad, and Bax are independent prognostic parameters for outcome. 
Transcript levels were analyzed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR in 232 samples 
collected either at diagnosis or following induction chemotherapy (ICT). 
Multivariate COX regression analysis adjusted for chemotherapy protocol, de novo 
vs secondary AML, and de novo vs relapsed AML indicated: (1) At diagnosis, high 
expression of Bad (P = 0.015) and even more so high Bax and Bad levels (P = 
0.018) predicted adverse outcome, regardless of the response to ICT. In patients 
who subsequently failed to enter complete remission (CR), high levels of Bad, 
Bax and Bax high/Bad high were associated with an increased relative risk (RR) 
to die from tumor (RR = 5.0 for Bad, 3.4 for Bax and 6.14 for Bax high/Bad 
high). (2) Following ICT, high expression of Bax (P= 0.005) and high Bcl-2/Bax 
ratios (P = 0.004) were independent predictors of unfavorable outcome, 
regardless of response to ICT. We conclude that high levels of Bax and Bad 
correlate with poor outcome, particularly in patients who do not enter CR and 
may serve as prognostic markers in AML.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402340
PMID: 11840259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Leukemia. 2002 Jan;16(1):30-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402339.

CD38 expression is an important prognostic marker in chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia.

Dürig J(1), Naschar M, Schmücker U, Renzing-Köhler K, Hölter T, Hüttmann A, 
Dührsen U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Medical Faculty, University of Essen, Essen, 
Germany.

Employing a multicolour flow cytometry assay, 133 B-chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (B-CLL) cases were analysed for surface expression of CD38. Based on a 
cut-off value of 20%, CLL patients were categorised into a CD38-positive (> or = 
20%, n = 56) and a CD38-negative subgroup (< 20%, n = 77) and separately 
analysed for clinical and laboratory parameters. Patients in the CD38-positive 
cohort were characterised by an unfavourable clinical course with a more 
advanced disease stage, poor responsiveness to chemotherapy, short time to 
initiation of first treatment and shorter survival. In contrast, the CD38- 
negative group required minimal or no treatment, remained treatment-free for a 
longer time period and had prolonged survival (P < 0.05). CD38 expression was a 
robust marker in the majority of patients in that it was stable over time and 
not significantly influenced by chemotherapy. In conclusion, our data confirm 
recent studies suggesting a role of CD38 as a predictor of clinical outcome in 
patients with B-CLL.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402339
PMID: 11840260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Leukemia. 2002 Feb;16(2):196-202. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402352.

Clinical and biological implications of partial tandem duplication of the MLL 
gene in acute myeloid leukemia without chromosomal abnormalities at 11q23.

Shiah HS(1), Kuo YY, Tang JL, Huang SY, Yao M, Tsay W, Chen YC, Wang CH, Shen 
MC, Lin DT, Lin KH, Tien HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

The clinical and biological features of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with 
11q23/MLL translocations are well known, but the characteristics of AML with 
partial tandem duplication of the MLL gene have not been explored 
comprehensively. In this study, MLL duplication was analyzed, in 81 AML patients 
without chromosomal abnormalities at 11q23, using Southern blotting, genomic DNA 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), reverse-transcription PCR and complementary DNA 
sequencing. Nine patients showed partial tandem duplication of the MLL gene, 
including eight (12%) of the 68 with normal karyotype. Seven patients showed 
fusion of exon 6/exon 2 (e6/e2), one, combination of differentially spliced 
transcripts e7/e2 and e6/e2, and the remaining one, combination of e8/e2 and 
e7/e2. Among the patients with normal karyotype, children aged 1 to 15 showed a 
trend to higher frequency of MLL duplication than other patients (2/5 or 40% vs 
6/62 or 10%, P = 0.102). The patients with tandem duplication of the MLL gene 
had a significantly higher incidence of CD11b expression on leukemic cells than 
did those without in the subgroup of patients with normal karyotype (75% vs 28%, 
P = 0.017). There were no significant differences in the expression of lymphoid 
antigens or other myeloid antigens between the two groups of patients. In 
adults, the patients with MLL duplication had a shorter median survival time 
than those without (4.5 months vs 12 months, P = 0.036). In conclusion, partial 
tandem duplication of the MLL gene is associated with increased expression of 
CD11b on leukemic blasts and implicates poor prognosis in adult AML patients. 
The higher frequency of MLL duplication in children older than 1 year, than in 
other age groups, needs to be confirmed by further studies.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402352
PMID: 11840285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Leukemia. 2002 Feb;16(2):268-75. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402349.

Point mutations of the BCL-6 gene: clinical and prognostic correlation in 
B-diffuse large cell lymphoma.

Vitolo U(1), Botto B, Capello D, Vivenza D, Zagonel V, Gloghini A, Novero D, 
Parvis G, Calvi R, Ariatti C, Milan I, Bertini M, Boccomini C, Freilone R, 
Pregno P, Orsucci L, Palestro G, Saglio G, Carbone A, Gallo E, Gaidano G.

Author information:
(1)UOA Ematologia, Dipartimento di Oncologia, Azienda Ospedaliera S Giovanni 
Battista, Torino, Italy. uvitolo@molinette.piemonte.it

Although point mutations of the 5' noncoding regions of the BCL-6 proto-oncogene 
are frequently detected in B-diffuse large cell lymphoma (B-DLCL), a thorough 
analysis of the clinical correlation of these mutations has not been performed 
to date. In this study, BCL-6 mutations were examined by DNA direct sequencing 
in 103 patients with B-DLCL. BCL-6 mutations were found in 53/103 patients, 
including 38/76 treated with standard chemotherapy and 15/27 treated with 
autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) up front. The presence of BCL-6 
mutations was correlated with clinical features at diagnosis and outcome. 
Mutated patients had a significantly higher LDH level (66% vs 38%, P < 0.05), 
and bulky disease (51% vs 32%, P = 0.05). In the whole series of patients BCL-6 
mutations did not affect CR and OS. Patients with BCL-6 mutations tended to have 
a prolonged 5-years DFS and FFS compared to those without mutations (DFS 82% vs 
63%, FFS 63% vs 49%). Among B-DLCL treated with standard chemotherapy, mutated 
patients showed a significantly improved 5-year DFS (85% vs 61%, P < 0.05) and, 
notably, the only four relapses observed among mutated patients occurred in less 
than 8 months. The multivariate regression analysis (P < 0.01) with DFS as 
endpoint confirmed the independent prognostic value of BCL-6 mutations. There 
was a trend for 5-year failure-free survival to be better for patients with 
BCL-6 mutations (63% vs 43%, P = 0.09). In the 27 patients treated with ASCT, 
BCL-6 mutations did not correlate with outcome. These results suggest that BCL-6 
mutations may predict a higher chance of being free of disease in B-DLCL treated 
with standard chemotherapy. Larger series of patients need to be analyzed to 
evaluate the clinical relevance of BCL-6 mutations properly.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402349
PMID: 11840294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Adolesc Med. 2002 Feb;13(1):145-59, vii-viii.

Endocrine complications of cystic fibrosis.

Moran A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 55455, USA.

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are now living longer, with a median survival 
of 32 years in 2000. With longer life expectancy and improved treatments for 
pulmonary disease, other complications of CF are becoming more apparent. The 
primary endocrine complications affecting adolescents with CF include (1) poor 
growth and pubertal development, (2) CF-related diabetes, and (3) poor bone 
mineralization. This chapter discusses pathophysiology, screening, and treatment 
of endocrine complications of CF.

PMID: 11841961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Aust Health Rev. 2001;24(4):46-56. doi: 10.1071/ah010046.

Hospital utilisation expectancies in New Zealand, 1980-98.

Cheung J(1), Katzenellenbogen J, Baxendine S, Pool I, Jackson G.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Wellington, New Zealand.

The need to synthesise mortality and morbidity information to achieve a more 
global and relevant measure of population health status is well recognised, with 
health expectancy indices being the most common approach used to date. Using New 
Zealand hospital discharge and mortality data over the 1980-98 period, we 
introduce readers to a newly developed health index, the Hospital Utilisation 
Expectancy (HUE). We describe how HUE changes with age and over time. New 
Zealand national and regional trends are described. The methodological strengths 
of the measure and its applications in the health sector are discussed.

DOI: 10.1071/ah010046
PMID: 11842717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 2002;36:118-30. doi: 10.1159/000061334.

Invasive bladder cancer: organ preservation by radiochemotherapy.

Rödel C(1), Grabenbauer GG, Kühn R, Dunst J, Papadopoulos T, Schrott KM, Sauer 
R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Erlangen, Germany. 
claus.roedel@strahlen.med.uni-erlangen.de

DOI: 10.1159/000061334
PMID: 11842742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 2002;36:131-46. doi: 10.1159/000061337.

Radiation, chemotherapy and transurethral surgery: an organ-sparing alternative 
to the radical cystectomy.

Zietman AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass., USA.

DOI: 10.1159/000061337
PMID: 11842743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Int J Hematol. 2002 Jan;75(1):45-50. doi: 10.1007/BF02981978.

Prognosis of elderly patients with acute myelogenous leukemia: analysis of 126 
AML cases.

Iwakiri R(1), Ohta M, Mikoshiba M, Tsutsumi H, Kumakawa T, Mori M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, Japan.

We retrospectively analyzed 126 acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients aged > 
or =60 years who had all been referred to the same hematological department 
between 1989 and 1999. In 76 de novo AML cases, 53 patients (median age, 72 
years) were treated with combination chemotherapy (CT) for remission induction. 
Complete remission (CR) rate was 57.1%. The median overall survival (OS) was 16 
months, and the rate of 3-year OS was 28%. The favorable prognostic factors were 
performance status < or =2, cholinesterase > or =100 IU, and intermediate or 
favorable karyotype (P < .01). Seventeen patients (median age, 78 years) with 
hypocellular bone marrow or poor general condition were treated with low-dose 
cytosine arabinoside (LDAraC). In these patients, the CR rate was 50% and the 
median OS was 11 months, with an OS estimate at 3 years of 14%. All patients 
with hypocellular bone marrow who received LDAraC for 21 days achieved CR. In 50 
patients who developed AML following a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS/AML), 22 
patients (median age, 74 years) were treated with CT, and 14 (median age, 74 
years) patients were treated with LDAraC. The CR rates were 22.7% and 21.4%, 
respectively, and the median OS durations were 8 months and 11 months, 
respectively. There were no significant factors that would indicate a good 
prognosis in MDS/AML patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02981978
PMID: 11843290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Heart Valve Dis. 2002 Jan;11 Suppl 1:S45-9.

Management of mild to moderate aortic stenosis at the time of coronary artery 
bypass grafting.

Filsoufi F(1), Aklog L, Adams DH, Byrne JG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    J Heart Valve Dis. 2003 Mar;12(2):270-1; author reply 271.

An increasing number of patients are referred for coronary artery bypass surgery 
(CABG) with the presence of mild to moderate aortic stenosis (AS). It is well 
accepted that patients with severe AS and coronary artery disease (CAD) should 
undergo combined aortic valve replacement (AVR) and CABG, which carries an 
operative mortality of approximately 5-7%. For patients with CAD and mild AS, 
controversy persists regarding concomitant AVR during CABG. It has been shown 
that AS progresses at a rate of 5-10 mmHg per year, and the valve area decreases 
by about 0.1 cm2 per year. The progression of AS is more rapid in elderly 
patients, in the presence of CAD, and in patients with a calcific degenerative 
etiology. In contrast, patients with congenital bicuspid valves or rheumatic 
pathology demonstrate slower progression of disease. Despite these observations, 
it is difficult to predict reliably the progression of disease for an 
individual. Thus, an attempt should be made to identify patients who are likely 
to progress rapidly from mild to severe AS and who would therefore benefit from 
AVR/CABG. Our approach regarding the decision to perform an AVR/CABG is based on 
aortic valve gradient and area. If the gradient is >25 mmHg, AVR should be 
considered. If the gradient is <10 mmHg, then only CABG is performed. Severities 
of leaflet calcification and leaflet mobility are factors that should be taken 
into account when deciding to perform concomitant AVR/CABG for intermediate 
gradient (10-25 mmHg). Additional important variables include the etiology of 
aortic valve disease, the rate of progression of AS, the patient's life 
expectancy, and general condition. For patients with mild AS who are undergoing 
CABG, a tailored approach involving intraoperative transesophageal 
echocardiography and valve inspection is the most appropriate surgical option.

PMID: 11843520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2002 Feb;128(2):177-80. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.128.2.177.

Near-total laryngectomy for laryngeal carcinomas with subglottic extension.

Aslan I(1), Baserer N, Yazicioglu E, Oysu C, Tinaz M, Kiyak E, Biliciler N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University, 
Kardelen 4-5 D: 3, 81120 Atasehir Istanbul, Turkey. ismetaslan@istanbul.edu.tr

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether Pearson classic near-total laryngectomy is a 
sensible surgical treatment modality for laryngeal carcinomas with subglottic 
extension.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of patients treated by near-total laryngectomy in 
a university hospital that is an academic tertiary health care center.
PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTION: Medical and computer records of 135 patients who 
were treated by near-total laryngectomy for laryngeal and hypopharyngeal 
carcinomas between April 1, 1989, and June 30, 2000, were searched thoroughly, 
and the final outcomes were confirmed by telephone contact.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival rates of the patients with laryngeal carcinomas 
with subglottic extension treated by near-total laryngectomy were compared with 
those of the patients with malignancies of other laryngeal regions given the 
same treatment.
RESULTS: Of the 135 patients in the study, 74 were available for determination 
of 5-year survival. The rate was 65.8% (27/41) for transglottic tumors, 53.8% 
(7/13) for supraglottic tumors, and 20.0% (4/20) for tumors with subglottic 
extension. Only 3 of 16 patients with laryngeal carcinomas with supraglottic or 
transglottic localization died of local recurrence; the rest of the deaths were 
from regional recurrence or distant metastasis. However, 6 of 13 patients with 
subglottic extension died of local recurrence, 5 of peristomal recurrence, and 
only 2 of distant metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Success was directly related to adherence to precise indications in 
cancer surgery. While near-total laryngectomy is an effective and reliable 
treatment modality in laryngeal cancer surgery, its effectiveness in laryngeal 
cancers with subglottic extension is debatable. These subglottic lesions should 
be treated by total laryngectomy, which is a more radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.128.2.177
PMID: 11843727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Hum Fertil (Camb). 1999;2(2):143-148. doi: 10.1080/1464727992000198531.

Germ cell transplantation in the male: animal studies with a human perspective.

Schlatt S(1), von Schönfeldt V, Nieschlag E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstr. 11, D-48149 
Münster, Germany.

Germ cell transplantation has been developed in rodent models. The transfer of 
donor germ cells into the seminiferous tubules of mice leads to re-initiation of 
donor spermatogenesis in the host testis and restoration of fertility. 
Furthermore, cryopreservation of donor cells or culture of germ cells before the 
transfer is feasible. Xenologous transfer of rat and hamster germ cells results 
in the production of foreign gametes in the mouse testis. From a clinical 
perspective, this methodology has the potential to restore fertility in patients 
whose testes have been damaged due to oncological therapy. This review 
summarizes the existing data on animal models and introduces the first 
preclinical attempts for preserving germ cells in patients undergoing 
oncological treatment. As improved therapeutic regimens have markedly increased 
the life expectancy of oncological patients, it seems timely to develop improved 
strategies for restoring the maximum quality of life after recovery from the 
disease. The loss of fertility is one of the most problematic negative side 
effects in young male oncological patients. Germ cell transplantation offers the 
potential for protection of the male germ line during gonadotoxic therapy and 
restoration of fertility.

DOI: 10.1080/1464727992000198531
PMID: 11844343


334. Lancet. 2002 Feb 2;359(9304):447. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)07582-7.

Bad decision NICE.

Ellis SJ.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)07582-7
PMID: 11844551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Endocr Rev. 2002 Feb;23(1):120-40. doi: 10.1210/edrv.23.1.0457.

Turner's syndrome in adulthood.

Elsheikh M(1), Dunger DB, Conway GS, Wass JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, OX2 6HE, United 
Kingdom.

Turner's syndrome is the most common chromosomal abnormality in females, 
affecting 1:2,500 live female births. It is a result of absence of an X 
chromosome or the presence of a structurally abnormal X chromosome. Its most 
consistent clinical features are short stature and ovarian failure. However, it 
is becoming increasingly evident that adults with Turner's syndrome are also 
susceptible to a range of disorders, including osteoporosis, hypothyroidism, and 
renal and gastrointestinal disease. Women with Turner's syndrome have a reduced 
life expectancy, and recent evidence suggests that this is due to an increased 
risk of aortic dissection and ischemic heart disease. Up until recently, women 
with Turner's syndrome did not have access to focused health care, and thus 
quality of life was reduced in a significant number of women. All adults with 
Turner's syndrome should therefore be followed up by a multidisciplinary team to 
improve life expectancy and reduce morbidity.

DOI: 10.1210/edrv.23.1.0457
PMID: 11844747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2002 Mar;14(2):115-20. doi: 
10.1097/00002281-200203000-00007.

Coronary artery disease and rheumatoid arthritis.

Goodson N(1).

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Research Campaign, Epidemiology Unit, Stopford Building, University 
of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United Kingdom. nicola.goodson@man.ac.uk

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a reduced life expectancy when 
compared with the general population. Cardiovascular death is considered the 
leading cause of mortality in patients with RA; it is responsible for 
approximately half the deaths observed in RA cohorts. The prevalence of 
cardiovascular comorbidity is difficult to assess accurately, because 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) has a tendency to remain silent in the rheumatoid 
patient. It is not clear why rheumatoid patients have higher rates of coronary 
disease. Traditional cardiovascular risk factors do not seem to be wholly 
responsible for the increased cardiovascular risk. Novel cardiovascular risk 
factors, including inflammatory markers, have been identified over the past few 
years. It may be that these new cardiovascular risk factors are responsible for 
accelerating coronary heart disease in patients with RA. This article reviews 
recent literature relating to the epidemiology of cardiovascular disease in the 
context of RA.

DOI: 10.1097/00002281-200203000-00007
PMID: 11845015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2002 Mar;51(1):53-7. doi:
10.1007/s00262-001-0250-6.  Epub 2002 Jan 10.

The presence of interleukin-2 receptor alpha in the serum of colorectal cancer 
patients is unlikely to result only from T cell up-regulation.

Huang A(1), Quinn H, Glover C, Henderson DC, Allen-Mersh TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College School of 
Science, Technology and Medicine, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, 369 Fulham 
Road, London, SW10 9NH, UK.

It is unclear whether the presence of interleukin-2 soluble receptor alpha (IL-2 
sRalpha) in the serum of colorectal cancer patients is solely due to T cell 
activation. In this study, we therefore investigated whether T cell activation, 
indicated by the up-regulation of the CD25 and HLA-DR markers, or cell-mediated 
immunity (CMI) were associated with increased serum levels of IL-2 sRalpha in 
patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma. The levels of serum IL-2 sRalpha 
and the proportion of T cells expressing HLA-DR (DR(+) T cells) were measured as 
markers for chronic activation. CMI was assessed by delayed-type 
hypersensitivity reaction (DTH) to intradermal injections of recall antigens. 
Eighty-seven colorectal liver metastases (CLM) patients and 23 'cancer-free' 
control subjects were studied. DR(+) T cells were found to be more prevalent ( 
P<0.0001) in CLM patients (median: 21.1%) than in controls (median: 3.4%), but 
DR(+) T cell up-regulation was not correlated with serum IL-2 sRalpha levels. 
CMI positivity was significantly reduced ( P=0.002) in CLM patients compared 
with controls, and this reduction was significantly associated ( P=0.05) with an 
increase in the number of DR(+) T cells. Although survival was significantly 
shorter ( P=0.0003) in patients with increased serum IL-2 sRalpha levels than in 
subjects with normal levels, no association was found between survival and DR(+) 
T cell up-regulation. These findings were consistent with the hypothesis of an 
additional source of serum IL-2 sRalpha other than T cell up-regulation in CLM 
patients -- either from other immune cells, or from tumour products.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-001-0250-6
PMID: 11845260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Ann Thorac Surg. 2002 Feb;73(2):438-43. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03336-7.

Aortic root replacement in 271 Marfan patients: a 24-year experience.
