
Gott VL(1), Cameron DE, Alejo DE, Greene PS, Shake JG, Caparrelli DJ, Dietz HC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, the Institute of Genetic Medicine and the Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21287, USA. vgott@csurg.jhmi.jhu.edu

BACKGROUND: The introduction of composite graft repair of aortic root aneurysm 
by Hugh Bentall in 1968 promised Marfan patients the choice for a normal life 
expectancy. We performed our first Bentall composite graft procedure in 1976 and 
herein report our 24-year experience with 271 Marfan patients.
METHODS: Between September 1976 and August 2000, 232 Marfan patients had a 
composite graft replacement of the aortic root, 15 patients received a 
homograft, and 24 had a valve-sparing procedure.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirty-five Marfan patients underwent elective aortic root 
replacement with no 30-day mortality. Two early deaths occurred among 36 
patients who underwent urgent or emergent operation. Eighty-three percent of 
patients in this series are currently alive. The actuarial freedom from 
thromboembolism, endocarditis, and reoperation on the residual aorta 20 years 
postoperatively was 93%, 90%, and 74%. Twenty-four patients have undergone 
valve-sparing procedures with encouraging results.
CONCLUSIONS: Elective aortic root replacement for Marfan patients can be 
performed with low operative risk. Elective repair before the aortic root 
reaches 6 cm in diameter is recommended to minimize risk of dissection and 
rupture.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(01)03336-7
PMID: 11845856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Health Econ. 2002 Jan;21(1):161-6; discussion 167-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00120-5.

Life-cycle preferences over consumption and health: a comment on Bleichrodt and 
Quiggin.

Klose T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Germany. 
thomas.klose@gsk.com

Comment on
    J Health Econ. 1999 Dec;18(6):681-708.

In a recent issue of the Journal of Health Economics, Bleichrodt and Quiggin 
(1999) developed a model of life-cycle preferences over consumption and health 
to analyze QALY-based decision making. This analysis is critically appraised 
concerning issues of QALY-maximization on an individual and on an aggregate 
level as well as of the role of death in QALY-models. It is concluded that a 
more general approach might be useful for the analysis of QALYs and life-cycle 
preferences over consumption and health.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00120-5
PMID: 11845922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Health Econ. 2002 Jan;21(1):169-75; discussion 177-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00113-8.

Defining the value of a statistical life: a comment.

Blomqvist A(1).

Author information:
(1)Applied Research and Analysis Directorate, Health Canada, and Department of 
Economics, University of Western Ontario, London. akeb@uwo.ca

Comment on
    J Health Econ. 2001 Jan;20(1):131-9.
    J Health Econ. 2002 Mar;21(2):181-95.

In a recent paper [J. Hlth. Econom. 20 (2001) 131] Per-Olov Johansson claims to 
demonstrate that a commonly used intuitive definition of the value of a 
statistical life (VSL) is wrong, and that empirical estimates of VSLs are biased 
estimators of what he defines as the theoretically correct concept of the value 
of saving a life. In this comment I first argue in favor of a theoretically 
correct concept that is different from Johansson's because it incorporates the 
risk of death into the individual's lifetime budget constraint. I then show that 
the common intuitive definition of a VSL in fact is consistent with the 
theoretically correct concept and thus, provides an appropriate empirical basis 
for estimating the value to society of mortality-reducing projects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00113-8
PMID: 11845923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 May;23(4):197-202. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200105000-00002.

Transfusion therapy: a coming-of-age treatment for patients with sickle cell 
disease.

Reed W(1), Vichinsky EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Oakland, Children's 
Hospital Oakland Research Institute, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200105000-00002
PMID: 11846294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 May;23(4):225-33. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200105000-00010.

Ifosfamide and etoposide are superior to vincristine and melphalan for pediatric 
metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma when administered with irradiation and combination 
chemotherapy: a report from the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group.

Breitfeld PP(1), Lyden E, Raney RB, Teot LA, Wharam M, Lobe T, Crist WM, Maurer 
HM, Donaldson SS, Ruymann FB.

Author information:
(1)Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group, Children's Cancer Group, Arcadia, 
California, USA. breit003@mc.duke.edu

Comment in
    J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 Aug-Sep;23(6):334-7.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to estimate the partial and complete response 
rates (CR and PR) of two novel drug pairs (vincristine and melphalan vs. 
ifosfamide and etoposide) and to improve overall survival of previously 
untreated patients with metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty-eight patients were randomly assigned 
to phase II window therapy consisting of vincristine and melphalan 
(VM-containing regimen) or ifosfamide and etoposide (IE-containing regimen). 
Brief window therapy (12 wks) was immediately followed-up by vincristine, 
dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC), chemotherapy, surgery, and 
irradiation, with continuation of either VM or IE in patients with initial 
response. Major endpoints were initial CR and PR rates after the phase II window 
phase of therapy, failure-free survival (FFS), and survival.
RESULTS: Patients who received the VM-containing regimen experienced 
significantly more anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and had more 
cyclophosphamide dose reductions. The initial PR and CR rates were not 
significantly different for patients treated with either regimen (VM, 74%; IE, 
79%; P = 0.428). However, FFS and overall survival (OS) at 3 years were 
significantly better with the IE-containing regimen (FFS: 33% vs. 19%; P = 
0.043; OS: 55% vs. 27%; P = 0.012).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the VM-containing regimen produced a high response rate, 
inclusion of melphalan appeared to limit the cyclophosphamide dose that could be 
administered, and ultimately, this regimen was associated with a significantly 
worse outcome than was the IE-containing regimen. Also, the IE-containing 
regimen was associated with a gratifyingly high survival rate at 3 years (55%), 
which is significantly higher than has been observed on any previous Intergroup 
Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group regimen for similar patients. We believe that this 
promising outcome indicates that this drug pair merits further randomized 
testing in metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200105000-00010
PMID: 11846301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Osteoporos Int. 2001 Dec;12(12):1042-9. doi: 10.1007/s001980170015.

Impact of hip and vertebral fractures on quality-adjusted life years.

Tosteson AN(1), Gabriel SE, Grove MR, Moncur MM, Kneeland TS, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire, 
USA. Anna.Tosteson@Dartmouth.edu

The objective of the study was to estimate the impact of hip and vertebral 
fractures on quality of life in postmenopausal women using a preference-based 
health measure that is appropriate for economic evaluations and to investigate 
correlates of health outcome. Interviews to assess health-related quality of 
life, which also documented other health conditions and characteristics, were 
undertaken in women age 50 years and older without osteoporotic fractures 
compared with women with hip and/or vertebral fracture(s). Health status was 
characterized by self-reported physical limitations and the mental and physical 
component summary scores of the SF-36. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
which reflect each individual's assessment of her overall health utility, were 
estimated with time tradeoff values. Regression methods were used to examine 
QALY correlates (e.g. time since fracture) for each fracture group and to 
estimate differences in QALYs between fracture and non-fracture subjects after 
accounting for other patient characteristics. Among 382 women ages 50-96 years, 
fracture subjects were significantly older, less likely to use hormone 
replacement therapy and more likely to report physical limitations than 
non-fracture subjects. On the QALY scale, where 1 represents perfect health and 
0 represents death, mean QALY values were 0.82 (95% CI: 0.76, 0.87) among 114 
women with one or more vertebral fractures and 0.63 (95% CI: 0.52, 0.74) among 
67 with hip fracture compared with 0.91 (95% CI: 0.88, 0.94) among 201 women 
without fracture. No significant correlates of QALYs were identified among women 
with vertebral fracture alone. Among hip fracture subjects, time since hip 
fracture and presence of a vertebral fracture were significant correlates of 
QALYs. In multiple regression analyses, estimated QALY differences (fracture 
minus non-fracture subjects) ranged from -0.05 to -0.55 and were equivalent to 
losses of 20-58 days, 23-65 days and 115-202 days per year for vertebral 
fracture (p = 0.001), hip fracture (p = 0.009) and hip plus vertebral fracture 
(p<0.001) subjects, respectively, depending on age. Thus to adequately assess 
the cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis treatment, the negative impact of 
vertebral fractures on QALYs, even among women who have survived a hip fracture, 
must be considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980170015
PMID: 11846331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Health Soc Care Community. 2001 Nov;9(6):404-13. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2524.2001.00319.x.

Investigating women's preferences for intrapartum care: home versus hospital 
births.

Longworth L(1), Ratcliffe J, Boulton M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Oxbridge, UK.

There is an increasing amount of evidence to suggest that the clinical outcomes 
associated with a home birth for low risk women are at least as good, if not 
better than, the clinical outcomes associated with giving birth in hospital. If 
it is the case that there is little or no difference in clinical outcomes 
between the two modes of delivery, then traditional measures of benefit used in 
health economics, e.g. quality adjusted life years (QALYs), would detect little 
or no difference between the alternative modes of delivery. From this, the 
conclusion would be that the utility values associated with each mode of 
delivery are similar. However, women may still have clearly defined preferences 
relating to the way in which maternity care is provided. This paper uses the 
economic technique of conjoint analysis to assess the relative value attached to 
several main characteristics associated with the process of maternity care 
during the intrapartum stage for women who have actively chosen to give birth at 
home relative to women who have given birth in hospital. It was found that 
respondents who had chosen a home birth valued continuity of carer, a homely 
environment and the ability to make their own decisions about what happens 
during labour and delivery. In contrast, hospital birth respondents placed a 
relatively high value on access to an epidural for pain relief and not needing 
to be transferred to another location during labour if a problem arose. The 
results of the study suggest that women have clearly defined preferences for 
characteristics associated with the process of intrapartum care that would be 
unlikely to be detected by traditional benefit measures used in health 
economics. This finding is important where policy issues relating to aspects of 
maternity care service delivery are being considered.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2524.2001.00319.x
PMID: 11846820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Arthroplasty. 2002 Feb;17(2):176-83. doi: 10.1054/arth.2002.29325.

Long-term follow-up of the GSB II total knee used in primary total knee 
arthroplasty.

Sprenger TR(1), Doerzbacher JF.

Author information:
(1)L. W. Blake Medical Center, and Manatee Memorial Hospital, Bradenton, 
Florida, USA. tomsprenger@attglobal.net

The GSB II (Sulzer Medica, Winterthur, Switzerland) knee prosthesis ranks 
between the minimally constrained condylar prostheses and the fully constrained 
hinges. The senior author (T.R.S.) used this prosthesis in 47 patients (54 
knees) with a maximum follow-up of 18 years (mean, 7.8 years). The mean patient 
age was 75 years (range, 61-94 years). The 10- and 18-year cumulative life-table 
survival rates were 95.7% and 88.1% for prosthesis removal or infection, 87.4% 
and 76.8% for patient dissatisfaction, and 81.5% and 71.3% for Hospital for 
Special Surgery score <70 or infection (95% confidence interval). The cumulative 
rate of infection after 10 and 18 years was 4.3% and 11.6% based on the 
life-table survival analysis. The only indication for this type of prosthesis in 
a primary arthroplasty is a knee with severe deformity, bone loss, or ligament 
deficiency.

DOI: 10.1054/arth.2002.29325
PMID: 11847616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Ann Pharmacother. 2002 Feb;36(2):218-24. doi: 10.1345/aph.10347.

Cost-effectiveness of prophylactic indomethacin in very-low-birth-weight 
infants.

Moya MP(1), Goldberg RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC, USA. mmoya@vitametrix.com

OBJECTIVE: To perform cost-effectiveness analysis to facilitate the 
decision-making process surrounding use of indomethacin in preterm infants to 
lower the incidence of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), intraventricular 
hemorrhage (IVH), and death.
METHODS: A MEDLINE literature search from 1966 to July 2000 was performed to 
identify relevant randomized, controlled trials (RCTs), as well as cohort and 
retrospective case-control studies. A decision tree was built representing the 
choice to use or not use indomethacin, and the potential outcome costs. 
Probabilities of being in each chance node were obtained from this search. Where 
data probabilities were not clear, a sensitivity analysis was conducted.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the expected survival per year; however, 
there was a significant difference when effectiveness was measured as 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), resulting in 11 and 10 years for the 
indomethacin and control groups, respectively. The indomethacin treatment cost 
was $95,157 and that of the control groups was $99,955. The cost effectiveness 
per life expectancy of being in the indomethacin and control groups was $7142 
and $7727, respectively. The sensitivity analysis for PDA closure and prevention 
of IVH for infants eventually developing PDA versus those without PDA showed no 
difference. The cost-effectiveness analysis per QALY was $8443 for the 
indomethacin treatment and $9168 for the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: The prophylactic use of indomethacin is less costly and more 
effective within an important range of certainty. However, this analysis does 
not include several potentially confounding factors, such as antenatal steroid 
use or indomethacin-induced renal toxicity. Depending on the frequency with 
which these factors arise, economic projections may be considerably altered 
against the early use of indomethacin.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.10347
PMID: 11847937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Environ Radioact. 2002;59(1):19-28. doi: 10.1016/s0265-931x(01)00031-5.

The cost-effectiveness of residential radon remediation programmes: assumptions 
about benefits stream profiles over time.

Kennedy CA(1), Gray AM, Denman AR, Phillips PS.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Institute of Health Sciences, University of 
Oxford, UK. christine.kennedy@ihs.ox.ac.uk

A recent cost-effectiveness analysis of a residential radon remediation 
programme considered and highlighted many areas of uncertainty in the parameters 
chosen for the analysis. One assumption not challenged in the study was the 
benefits stream profile adopted. There are several different ways of loading the 
benefits in terms of life years into the cost-effectiveness model and several of 
these are explored and the results are reported in this study. The benefits 
profile depends upon the lead-time to cancer manifestation post environmental 
carcinogen (radon) exposure. The literature reviewed suggests that there are 
many options for loading benefits to radon-induced lung cancer prevention 
programmes. In this study, the alternative benefits stream profiles are explored 
and their implications for the cost-effectiveness ratio are examined. Adopting 
different benefits stream profiles to the model results in a range of 
cost-effectiveness ratios from 14912.90 pounds per life year gained to 52416.27 
pounds per life year gained. The preferred model is reported where the life 
years gained are assumed to be equally distributed over the last 15 years of the 
40-year time horizon of the analysis (Y25-40) and the corresponding 
cost-effectiveness ratio is 37,943 pounds per life year gained.

DOI: 10.1016/s0265-931x(01)00031-5
PMID: 11848149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Feb;54(4):577-89. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00053-3.

Income, income inequality and health: what can we learn from aggregate data?

Gravelle H(1), Wildman J, Sutton M.

Author information:
(1)National Primary Care Research and Development Centre, University of York, 
Heslington, UK. hg8@york.ac.uk

It has been suggested that, especially in countries with high per capita income, 
there is an independent effect of income distribution on the health of 
individuals. One source of evidence in support of this relative income 
hypothesis is the analysis of aggregate cross-section data on population health, 
per capita income and income inequality. We examine the empirical robustness of 
cross-section analyses by using a new data set to replicate and extend the 
methodology in a frequently cited paper. The estimated relationship between 
income inequality and population health is not significant in any of our 
estimated models. We also argue there are serious conceptual difficulties in 
using aggregate cross-sections as a means of testing hypotheses about the effect 
of income, and its distribution, on the health of individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00053-3
PMID: 11848275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2002 Feb 15;165(4):540-50. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.165.4.16541.

Understanding costs and cost-effectiveness in critical care: report from the 
second American Thoracic Society workshop on outcomes research.

[No authors listed]

Economic evaluations are increasingly common in the critical care literature, 
although approaches to their conduct are not standardized. The American Thoracic 
Society convened a workshop to address methodologic and reporting issues for 
economic analyses in critical care and to determine how guidelines from the U.S. 
Public Health Service Panel on Cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine (PCEHM) 
were applicable to critical care. We identified several issues that hamper 
cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) in the critically ill. Data on the 
effectiveness of intensive care unit (ICU) interventions are often lacking; ICU 
patients are complex, with multiple concurrent problems and interventions; most 
ICU therapies are only supportive, and therefore may not individually result in 
improved outcome; accurate cost data are not commonly available and are 
difficult to obtain; there is no standardized approach for measuring or valuing 
costs across countries; typical outcomes in ICU studies (e.g., short-term 
mortality) are not ideal for CEAs while preferred outcomes for CEAs (e.g., 
long-term quality-adjusted survival) are rarely collected; valuing the 
importance of appropriate end-of-life care, an important aspect of ICU care, is 
difficult, and the burden of critical illness on family members is not easily 
captured in a CEA. Nevertheless, many of these problems are not unique to 
critical care, and we believe the PCEHM guidelines can be adapted to the 
critical care setting. We recommend all CEAs in the critically ill include a 
PCEHM reference case, where the cost-effectiveness ratio is calculated by 
adopting a societal perspective, estimating long-term costs and quality of life 
after ICU care, applying a 3% annual discount rate to costs and effects, and 
conducting multiway sensitivity analyses. Because elements of the reference 
case, such as long-term costs and quality of life, may only be estimated using 
modeling and assumptions, we also recommend inclusion of a "data-rich" case, 
where the cost-effectiveness ratio is generated as closely as possible from data 
on actual patient outcomes and costs (e.g., hospital costs per hospital 
survivor). We recommend that investigators conducting a CEA concurrently with a 
randomized trial make the proposed model available (e.g., via the Internet) 
before unblinding of trial data to minimize bias. Adopting a standard approach 
to CEAs of ICU therapies will provide a valid and more transparent evidence base 
for health care policy with regard to care of the critically ill.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.165.4.16541
PMID: 11850349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Hopkins HIV Rep. 2002 Jan;14(1):5.

Report from ICAAC: update on opportunistic infections.

Bartlett JG.

PMID: 11851122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Occup Environ Med. 2002 Feb;44(2):109-15. doi: 
10.1097/00043764-200202000-00005.

Cost-utility analysis of hepatitis A prevention among health-care workers in 
Israel.

Chodick G(1), Lerman Y, Wood F, Aloni H, Peled T, Ashkenazi S.

Author information:
(1)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Department of Epidemiology 
& Preventive Medicine, POB 39040 Ramat-Aviv, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. 
gabbychodick@hotmail.com

This study was conducted to evaluate the efficiency of different strategies of 
preventing hepatitis A (HA) among physicians, nurses, and paramedical staff by 
means of cost-effectiveness analysis. The strategies compared were passive 
immunization during a hepatitis A outbreak, systematic mass vaccination of all 
workers, and screening for antibodies to HA virus followed by vaccination of 
nonimmune employees. To predict the prevented number of HA cases, an 
epidemiological model was incorporated based on our previous nationwide study on 
clinical HA cases, seroepidemiological survey, and other scientific medical 
literature. Under the model assumptions, the lowest cost per prevented HA case 
($6240) was achieved by screening prior vaccination among 18- to 39-year-old 
physicians and paramedical workers, and highest ($61,858) by mass vaccination of 
nurses over age 39 years. Because the price per prevented case may show that 
mass vaccination is highly cost-effective, especially among 18- to 39-year-old 
physicians and paramedical workers ($6399 and $8196, respectively), the cost per 
gained quality-adjusted life-year seems less attractive ($56,532 and $61,350, 
respectively). This cost per saved quality-adjusted life-year is similar to many 
other medical interventions but is markedly higher than other primary prevention 
vaccines, which are mostly associated with a negative ratio. In view of the 
conducted study, and taking $60,000 as a limit cost per saved quality-adjusted 
life-year, we propose selective vaccination for physicians and for paramedical 
workers. Mass vaccination should be offered to all health care workers, aside 
from nurses 40+ years of age, once the active HA vaccine price is reduced to 
$23.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-200202000-00005
PMID: 11851212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. FEBS Lett. 2002 Feb 13;512(1-3):33-7. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02282-2.

Quinones in long-lived clk-1 mutants of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Miyadera H(1), Kano K, Miyoshi H, Ishii N, Hekimi S, Kita K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, 113-0033, Tokyo, Japan.

Ubiquinone (UQ) (coenzyme Q) is a lipophilic redox-active molecule that 
functions as an electron carrier in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. 
Electron transfer via UQ involves the formation of semiubiquinone radicals, 
which causes the generation of superoxide radicals upon reaction with oxygen. In 
the reduced form, UQ functions as a lipid-soluble antioxidant, and protects 
cells from lipid peroxidation. Thus, UQ is also important as a lipophilic 
regulator of oxidative stress. Recently, a study on long-lived clk-1 mutants of 
Caenorhabditis elegans demonstrated that biosynthesis of UQ is dramatically 
altered in mutant mitochondria. Demethoxy ubiquinone (DMQ), that accumulates in 
clk-1 mutants in place of UQ, may contribute to the extension of life span. Here 
we elucidate the possible mechanisms of life span extension in clk-1 mutants, 
with particular emphasis on the electrochemical property of DMQ. Recent findings 
on the biochemical function of CLK-1 are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02282-2
PMID: 11852047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. AACN Clin Issues. 2002 Feb;13(1):114-31. doi:
10.1097/00044067-200202000-00012.

The challenge of managing the care of older heart transplant recipients.

Baas LS(1), Bell B, Stuebbe SD, Giesting R, Wagoner LE.

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati College of Nursing, PO Box 210038, Cincinnati, OH 
45221-0038, USA. Linda.baas@uc.edu

Age is perhaps the most controversial exclusion criterion for heart 
transplantation. One concern focuses on whether chronological or functional age 
is the better predictor of positive outcomes when considering heart 
transplantation for an elderly patient with end-stage heart disease. Another 
concern is related to the philosophical and ethical rationale for allocation of 
scarce resources to those near the end of a normal life expectancy. However, the 
number of people who are older than age 65 years and have received a donor heart 
has increased and will continue to due to aging of the people who received a 
transplant a decade ago, as well as the growing number of people who undergo 
heart transplantation after the age of 65. In either case, the nurse must be 
aware of age-related concerns in this vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.1097/00044067-200202000-00012
PMID: 11852718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. AACN Clin Issues. 2002 Feb;13(1):94-102. doi:
10.1097/00044067-200202000-00010.

Heart failure in older adults: keys to successful management.

Stanley M(1), Prasun M.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville, IL 62062, USA. 
stanley@shawneelink.com

Recent American Heart Association statistics indicate that approximately 5 
million people experience heart failure, and that an estimated 400,000 to 
700,000 new cases are expected annually. Improved efforts in the emergency care 
of myocardial infarction and the increased life expectancy of the population in 
general are credited for the rapidly increasing number of elderly adults with 
such chronic cardiac diseases as heart failure. New drug therapies are tested 
daily to improve the treatment of heart failure. However, drugs alone cannot 
improve the lives of elderly men and women with this disorder. Skillful delivery 
of expert care is necessary if advanced practice nurses are to reduce the burden 
of heart failure and improve the lives of the individuals who must live with 
this devastating disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00044067-200202000-00010
PMID: 11852727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Natl Med Assoc. 2002 Feb;94(2):88-99.

Less is better.

Samaras TT, Elrick H.

The "more is better" credo is evaluated in terms of its harmful ramifications on 
human health, the environment, and the survival of the human race. The trend 
towards greater height and body weight in developed countries is evaluated in 
terms of its negative aspects on health and longevity. The benefits of reduced 
caloric intake are discussed. Countries that survive on lower food intakes are 
shown to have much less heart disease, such as South Africa, where rural blacks 
outlive whites and also have a higher percentage of centenarians. The risks of 
increasing birth weight are discussed in terms of promoting cancer and 
overweight in adulthood. Rapid childhood growth also is shown to have risks 
because rapid maturity is in conflict with the need to have more time to learn 
about our complex world before reaching reproductive capability. The increase in 
the average size of humans aggravates our burgeoning population numbers, placing 
even greater demands on our need for fresh water, energy, resources, and a clean 
invironment. Many good things come in large packages, such as elephants, whales, 
and trees. While Sumo wrestlers, football players, and basketball players play 
an important role in our world, their small numbers do not pose a threat to our 
survival. However, their body habitus should not be the goal for the average 
male of the future.

PMCID: PMC2594131
PMID: 11853051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Mar;56(3):205-8. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.3.205.

Long term mortality trends behind low life expectancy of Danish women.

Jacobsen R(1), Keiding N, Lynge E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark. R.jacobsen@pubhealth.ku.dk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To examine the long time mortality trends of women in Denmark.
DESIGN: Age-period-cohort analysis.
SETTING: To search for possible causes we analysed mortality rates for all 
Danish women and men aged 40-84 during 1960-1999. Age-period-cohort modelling 
was used, handling the well known indeterminacy in a sensitivity analysis.
MAIN RESULTS: The results indicate that the high risk of dying among Danish 
women is associated with being born between the two world wars. A similar 
pattern was not seen for men.
CONCLUSION: The rather simple descriptive exploration in the framework of 
age-period-cohort modelling used, revealed a pattern not reflected by the 
commonly used life expectancy calculation. It is suggested that future studies 
on the low life expectancy of Danish women focus on the "between wars" 
generations identified with a high risk of dying in this study.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.3.205
PMCID: PMC1732096
PMID: 11854342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Feb;35(2):211-21. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121050.

Outcome of endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with 
conditions considered unfit for an open procedure: a report on the EUROSTAR 
experience.

Buth J(1), van Marrewijk CJ, Harris PL, Hop WC, Riambau V, Laheij RJ; EUROSTAR 
Collaborators.

Author information:
(1)EUROSTAR Data Registry Center, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair (EAR) can be performed 
in patients whose conditions were previously considered unfit for conventional 
treatment of the aneurysm. However, because the life span in this category of 
patients often is limited because of serious comorbidity, the efficacy of EAR in 
prolonging life expectancy remains uncertain. This study involves the evaluation 
of preoperative risk classification and an assessment of the outcome of 
interventions.
METHODS: The data of 3075 patients, who underwent operation in 101 European 
institutions that collaborated in the EUROSTAR Registry, were assessed. Only the 
patients who had been prospectively enrolled in the registry were used for this 
analysis. Patient characteristics, operative risk factors, procedural details, 
and types of devices were correlated with preoperative estimates of operative 
risk, early and late mortality, complications, and primary and secondary outcome 
success rates. In addition, the intermediate-term survival rates in patients 
with unfit conditions with EAR (observed series) and with conservative 
approaches of the aneurysms (rupture rates as derived from the literature) were 
compared in a mathematical model.
RESULTS: Of the overall study group, 2525 patients were at "normal" risk for a 
surgical procedure (group A), 399 patients had conditions that were considered 
unfit for open surgery (group B), and 151 patients had conditions that were 
unfit for general anesthesia (group C). Both unfit categories had significantly 
more comorbid factors and larger aneurysms than did the patients in good medical 
condition. Differences were observed in comorbidities between the two high-risk 
categories, groups B and C. Factors that influenced the abdominal approach 
(previous laparotomies, hostile abdomen, and obesity) and local anatomic factors 
(eg, retroperitoneal fibrosis, inflammatory aneurysm, dissections, and 
enterostomy) were present in 19% of the patients with conditions that were unfit 
for open surgery and in only 1% of the category unfit for anesthesia. In 
contrast, severe pulmonary disease was present in 33% of the patients with 
conditions that were unfit for anesthesia as opposed to 11% of the patients with 
conditions that were unfit for open surgery. The early and late mortality rates 
were significantly higher in the unfit categories (groups B and C). Life table 
results showed a 3-year survival rate of 83% in patients at normal operative 
risk and of 68% in patients with unfit conditions (P =.0001). An independent 
correlation with late death was shown for the clinical classification into 
high-risk groups B and C, pulmonary disease, team experience of less than 60 
procedures, and the diameter of the aneurysm. In groups B and C, aneurysms 
smaller than 6.0 cm were associated with a 2-year survival rate of 80% and 
larger aneurysms with a rate of 68% (P =.02). This difference was caused by an 
increased non-aneurysm-related mortality rate in the group with aneurysms of 
more than 6 cm. The mathematical model showed an advantage of EAR with regard to 
the reduction of the death rate in patients with unfit conditions as compared 
with no intervention after 1 year. The advantage of EAR was observed in patients 
with AAAs between 5 and 6 cm and with larger aneurysms.
CONCLUSION: Early and late mortality rates were increased in patients with the 
preoperative clinical diagnosis "unfit for open surgery and general anesthesia" 
as compared with patients at "normal" operative risk. EAR appeared of potential 
benefit in patients with unfit conditions, regardless of the aneurysm diameter. 
The life expectancy of patients at high risk who are considered for EAR should 
be longer than 1 year before any realistic gain in life span can be anticipated.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121050
PMID: 11854717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Feb;35(2):307-15. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121122.

Lysis/balloon angioplasty versus thrombectomy/ open patch angioplasty of failed 
femoropopliteal polytetrafluoroethylene bypass grafts.

Aburahma AF(1), Hopkins ES, Wulu JT Jr, Cook CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of West Virginia 
University, Charleston, USA.

PURPOSE: Several studies have reported on the outcome of lysis/percutaneous 
transluminal balloon angioplasty (PTA) of failed or failing femoropopliteal 
bypass grafts (FPGs) with mixed results. None of these studies have compared the 
results of lysis/PTA versus thrombectomy/open patch repair for failed above-knee 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) FPGs.
METHODS: Patients with failed (thrombosed) above-knee FPGs (PTFE, Goretex) 
during a 10-year period were given the option to choose between 
thrombectomy/open patch repair for localized anastomotic short stenosis 
(less-than-or-equal2 cm; group A, 31 patients) and lysis/PTA or 
thrombectomy/balloon angioplasty when lysis failed or was contraindicated (group 
B, 26 patients). The cumulative patency rates were compared by using a 
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis. All patients underwent routine color duplex 
ultrasound scanning/ankle brachial index measurements at 30 days, 6 months, and 
every 6 months thereafter.
RESULTS: Demographic and clinical characteristics and indications for 
intervention were comparable in both groups. The mean follow-up period was 54.1 
and 46.2 months in group A and group B, respectively. There were four 
perioperative complications in group A (13%) and seven perioperative 
complications in group B (27%). Initial technical success and 30-day secondary 
graft patency rates were 100% in both groups. Overall, 17 of 31 patients (55%) 
had open grafts, with no further revisions in group A and six of 26 patients 
(23%) in group B requiring further revisions (P =.012). Nine of 31 grafts (29%) 
failed in group A versus 15 of 26 grafts (58%) in group B (P =.027). The rate of 
limb loss was comparable in both groups (6% vs 12%). The overall cumulative 
secondary patency rates at 6 months and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years were 100%, 93%, 
85%, 72%, 67%, and 62% for group A and 100%, 96%, 88%, 76%, 63%, and 45% for 
group B (P =.035). Thirty-five further interventions were needed to maintain 
graft patency in group B (mean, 1.35; range, 0-3) versus five further 
interventions in group A (mean, 0.16; range, 0-1; P <.05).
CONCLUSION: Thrombectomy/open surgical repair is superior to lysis/PTA (or 
thrombectomy/balloon angioplasty) for the treatment of failed above-knee PTFE 
FPGs with anastomotic stenoses. Therefore, balloon angioplasty should be 
reserved for patients who are at high risk for surgery.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121122
PMID: 11854729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Natl Med J India. 2002 Jan-Feb;15(1):7-13.

Estimates of the years-of-life-lost due to the top nine causes of death in rural 
areas of major states in India in 1995.

Indrayan A(1), Wysocki MJ, Kumar R, Chawla A, Singh N.

Author information:
(1)University College of Medical Sciences, Dilshad Garden, Delhi, India. 
indrayan@ucms.ernet.in

BACKGROUND: Years-of-life-lost (YLL) contribute nearly two-thirds of the 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) worldwide and are especially Important 
for India where infant and child mortality is still high. These were estimated 
for India under the Global Burden of Disease study for the year 1990. No 
estimates are available for the different states of India. We aimed to prepare 
state-wise estimates of YLL for different causes of death in rural areas and to 
determine the causes responsible for a higher burden in different states.
METHOD: Percentage deaths of the top 9 causes reported in the 
Registrar-General's Survey of Causes of Deaths (Rural)--1995 in 13 major states 
of India and different age groups was applied to the expected number of total 
deaths. The life lost according to the standard life-table was age-weighted and 
discounted using the methodology of the Global Burden of Disease 1990 study. The 
causes of death were based on lay reporting which otherwise seem reliable.
RESULTS: The all-cause YLL in rural India in 1995 were 207 per 1,000 population. 
The minimum was 74 in Kerala and maximum 276 in Madhya Pradesh. Pneumonia was 
the top cause responsible for 15 YLL. The inter-state variation was high as 
Tamil Nadu had only 1.6 and Uttar Pradesh 30.5 YLL from this cause. Cancers were 
a uniform burden across the states. Heart attack, and bronchitis and asthma cut 
across the more and less developed states. Suicides were a heavy burden in 
Andhra Pradesh and vehicular accidents in Haryana and Rajasthan. Bihar, Gujarat, 
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh had communicable and 
nutritional conditions as predominant causes while Kerala and Punjab had 
non-communicable diseases as the predominant cause of YLL due to premature 
mortality.
CONCLUSION: These results provide a new perspective about the causes of death 
that need more attention in rural areas of different states of India. These will 
also help prioritize areas which require more inputs at the state-level and 
hence will be useful for health policymakers.

PMID: 11855595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Novartis Found Symp. 2002;242:66-77; discussion 77-81.

Male reproductive ageing: human fertility, androgens and hormone dependent 
disease.

Handelsman DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)ANZAC Research Institute, Department of Andrology, Concord Hospital, 
University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The waning of male virility with age, in all its ambiguities, has always 
intrigued humans, prompting innumerable approaches to staving it off. In modern 
terms, advancing age impacts on all aspects of male reproductive health 
sexuality, fertility and androgenization with differing extents and tempo. With 
ageing, male sexual function declines predominantly due to vasculogenic defects 
in cavernosal haemodynamics, whereas libido and ejaculation are less affected. 
This raises the potential for prevention and treatment of erectile dysfunction 
as an early clinical manifestation of atherosclerosis. After maturity, male 
fertility persists throughout life but decreases modestly with age presumably 
due to concomitant decline in sexual activity rather than in sperm output or 
function, although systematic population studies of the latter are difficult. 
Male ageing is associated with a progressive, partial and variable degree of 
androgen deficiency, but the clinical and public health significance remain to 
be established. Available evidence suggests that androgen supplementation is 
unlikely to prolong life expectancy but might improve quality of life through 
prevention of apparently age-related declines in androgen-sensitive tissues. The 
appropriate target population, treatment modality and objectives remain to be 
established by further controlled clinical studies.

PMID: 11855695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Plant Mol Biol. 2002 Feb 1;48(3):203-10. doi: 10.1023/a:1013380814919.

The subcellular localization of an unusual rice calmodulin isoform, OsCaM61, 
depends on its prenylation status.

Dong A(1), Xin H, Yu Y, Sun C, Cao K, Shen WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. awdong1970@yahoo.com

Calmodulin (CaM) is a small Ca2+-binding protein highly conserved in eukaryotes. 
We have reported previously a novel rice CaM-like protein (OsCaM61) which 
contains an N-terminal CaM domain and a C-terminal extension with a potential 
prenylation site. Here we report in vitro activity assays confirm OsCaM61 as a 
functional CaM. Using the green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a visual marker, we 
further studied the subcellular localization of OsCaM61 in stably transformed 
tobacco cells. The GFP-OsCaM61 fusion protein was membrane-associated whereas 
OsCaM61-GFP was mainly detected in the nucleoplasm. GFP-OsCaM61 was transported 
into the nucleoplasm upon a block in isoprenoid biosynthesis by mevinolin 
treatment of cells. These results indicate that the prenylated OsCaM61 molecules 
are mainly membrane-associated whereas its unprenylated counterparts are 
transported into the nucleoplasm. Thus, OsCaM61 may play functions in 
co-ordinating Ca2+ signaling with isoprenoid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013380814919
PMID: 11855722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. World Hosp Health Serv. 2001;37(3):9-11, 40, 42.

Reform of the health care service system in Israel 1995-2000.

Hart J(1).

Author information:
(1)Loewenstein Hospital Rehabilitation Medical Center, Clalit Health Services 
(Raanana, Israel).

In January, 1995, a national health insurance law was enacted which allowed for 
the registration of every resident with one of the four public health funds. 
These funds provide medical services directly to their insured members, or 
purchase them from public or private hospitals or other health service 
providers. A basket of medical services was defined which guaranteed readily 
available comprehensive health care throughout the country. As part of the 
reform, a number of personal participation charges were established: a nominal 
fee for medications, and a service charge for a limited number of medical 
services (visits to specialist doctors, periodic fee for mother and child 
clinics, participation in the cost of chronic nursing hospitalization). In spite 
of the Government's commitment to finance the basket of services, the budget is 
not sufficient to cover costs, and there is an inherent shortfall deliberately 
introduced into the system by the Ministry of Finance. Since the introduction of 
the Law the sources for financing the basket of services have been eroded by 
16%. Complementary health insurance programs are being developed by the health 
funds as well as by private insurance companies. The national expenditure on 
health is some 8.4% of GDP, with an average annual expenditure of $1,384 per 
person. 72% of health expenditures are public and 28% private. Life expectancy 
is continually rising, and stood at 75.9 years for men and 80.1 years for women 
in 1999. Infant mortality is decreasing: in 1996 the rate was 6.3 per 1,000 live 
births. There is an ever increasing use of new technologies, even though at the 
same time there seems to be somewhat of a decrease in customer satisfaction. The 
achievements of the reform are considerable, but there is need for improvement 
in the areas of budgeting, return of the employer parallel tax, and in other 
areas if these achievements are not to be undone.

PMID: 11858011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Probl Tuberk. 2001;(9):13-7.

[Prospects for predicting the life expectancy of patients with chronic 
obstructive lung disease for refining indicators for lung transplantation].

[Article in Russian]

Iablonskiĭ PK, Aleksandrova NI, Fedorova TA, Neklasov IuF, Aleksandrov AL.

Success of lung transplantation is largely determined by the patients' timely 
referral for surgery. However, the determinants of survival in patients with 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), potential lung recipients are to 
be established. To reveal the determinants of survival in patients with terminal 
respiratory failure, the data from a follow-up of 59 patients with COPD who met 
the generally accepted requirements for the recipients of an isolated lung were 
analyzed. The analysis of some clinical, functional, hemodynamic parameters 
established that the level of hypoxemia and the value of pulmonary systolic 
pressure were of the greatest prognostic value. The values of external 
respiratory function did not affect the patients' survival. Thus, patients with 
COPD should undergo lung transplantation if they have a pulmonary systolic 
pressure of over 50 mm Hg, pO2 of under 60 mm Hg, and no benefits from their 
conservative therapy.

PMID: 11858079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Feb;54(4):561-76. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00052-1.

Letting the Gini out of the bottle? Challenges facing the relative income 
hypothesis.

Ellison GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Healthcare Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, 
UK. g.ellison@ioe.ac.uk

The relative income hypothesis interprets statistical associations between 
income inequality and average health status at the population level, as evidence 
that income inequality has a deleterious psychosocial effect on individual 
health. An alternative explanation is that these, population-level associations, 
are statistical artefacts of curvilinear, individual-level relationships between 
income and health. Indeed, provided the cost-benefit ratio of health-enhancing 
goods and services vary, the law of diminishing returns should produce 
curvilinear, asymptotic relationships between income and health at the 
individual level, which create ('artefactual') associations between income 
inequality and health at the population level. However, proponents of the 
relative income hypothesis have argued that these relationships are unlikely to 
be responsible for the associations observed between income inequality and 
average health status amongst high-income populations. In these populations, the 
individual-level relationships between income and health would be nearer their 
asymptotes, where a shallower slope should ensure that income inequality has 
little (if any) 'artefactual' effect on average health status. Yet this argument 
was based on analyses of population-level data which underestimated the slope 
and curvilinearity of underlying, individual-level relationships between income 
and health. It is therefore likely that (at least some part of) the 
population-level associations between income inequality and average health 
status (amongst low-, middle- and high-income populations) are 'artefacts' of 
curvilinear, individual-level relationships between income and health. 
Nevertheless, it is also possible that income inequality is somehow (partly or 
wholly) responsible for the curvilinear nature of individual-level relationships 
between income and health. Likewise, it is possible that income inequality 
alters the height, slope and/or curvilinearity of these relationships in such a 
way that income inequality has an independent effect on individual health. In 
either instance, the 'artefactual' effect of curvilinear relationships between 
income and health at the individual level would simply reflect the mechanism 
underlying the relative income hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00052-1
PMID: 11858212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Jan-Feb;17(1):78-85.

Single-tooth replacement with the Frialit-2 system: a retrospective clinical 
analysis of 146 implants.

Krennmair G(1), Schmidinger S, Waldenberger O.

Author information:
(1)Dental School University of Vienna, Austria. krennmair@aon.at

PURPOSE: This study was intended to provide a report of experience and results 
with Frialit-2 implants used for single-tooth replacement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Over a 7-year period (1994-2000), 146 single-tooth 
implants (84 maxilla, 62 mandible) were placed in 112 patients (67 females, 45 
males; 31.2 +/- 16.4 years). The sites included maxillary anterior teeth (n = 
38) as well as the mandibular premolars and molars (n = 57). Ninety-three crowns 
were cemented and 53 crowns were screw mounted (22 with vertical, 31 with 
horizontal screws) on standard abutments. The follow-up time varied between 3 
and 80 months (35.8 +/- 16.5 months).
RESULTS: Two implants (1.4%) were lost, 1 during early loading and the other 
after 6 years. The most frequent prosthetic complication was isolated crown 
loosening of cemented crowns requiring recementation of 9 crowns (9.9%). Crowns 
with vertical screws showed no crown and/or screw loosening. Four crowns (2.8%) 
were replaced because of ceramic fracture.
DISCUSSION: Peri-implant soft tissue condition, bone resorption, and Periotest 
values indicated satisfactory results. The cumulative implant survival rate 
during the follow-up period was 97.3%, and that of the crowns 96.4% (total 
cumulative survival rate 93.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: With the low number of abutment screw loosenings (3.5%), the deep 
internal hexagonal retention compared favorably to external retention methods. 
The predominant use of long implants (98.4% > or = 13 mm) allowed a favorable 
implant/crown ratio with the potential for problem-free, long-term results.

PMID: 11858577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2001 Jul-Dec;41(3-4):313-25.

A model for the long-term planning of physician workforce in Hungary.

Forgacs I(1), Paksy A.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Institute of Public Health 
Medicine, Budapest, Hungary.

A computer programme for the long term (25 years) projection of the physician 
workforce was developed. The input variables were the admittance rate of the 
medical schools and the unemployment rate of the active physicians, the output 
variables were the number of active physicians. The age and sex structure, the 
retirement age were taken into account. Different scenarios were made to compare 
the impact of the output of medical faculties and the unemployment rate of 
doctors on the number of active of the physicians in five years intervals for a 
twenty-five years period. The input of the young graduates varied between 
800-600/year, the unemployment rate between 4.5% and nil. At end of the 25 years 
projection period the reduction of physicians was between 9.6 and 25.0%. The aim 
was to find a professionally acceptable, socially tolerable and politically 
eligible optimal relationship among the three variables.

PMID: 11859637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2001 Jul-Dec;41(3-4):347-68.

