Physician workforce reform in Lithuania: an inevitable transition.

Lovkyte L(1), Padaiga Z.

Author information:
(1)Kaunas University of Medicine, Kaunas, Lithuania.

The health system in Lithuania before independence was the same centralized 
system, the Semashko model that was prevalent throughout the former Soviet 
Union. The Soviet system focused more on quantity than quality, which resulted 
in a greater number of physicians per 100,000 than found in Western Europe. As 
in other Central and Eastern European countries, the health system in Lithuania 
has undergone substantial change since 1990. A major part of the reform of 
physician workforce in the former communist countries has been development of 
primary health care as a centerpiece of the health systems. This move in 
Lithuania has been hindered to some degree by the shortage of general or family 
practitioners. The focus on specialists in the old Soviet system led to a severe 
shortage of physicians in general practice. Only about 10% of physicians were 
general practitioners (GPs) in 1993 compared to a European Union average of 35%. 
That percentage had increased to 16% by 1998. Programs have been established to 
both train new GPs and to retrain specialists to become GPs, although a shortage 
of teachers and finances are problems facing these programs. Although the 
physician workforce in Lithuania has undergone substantial reform since 1990, 
real change has been slow. The physician to population ratio in Lithuania has 
failed to decline, moving from 387 per 100,000 population in 1991 to 398 in 
1997, before dropping to 395 in 1998. The ratio remains substantially higher 
than current EU averages, reflecting a difficulty in reducing the number of 
physicians. Here we review what has happened to the physician workforce in 
Lithuania since independence and evaluate policies implemented. Efforts to 
reduce the number of physicians are also assessed. The results in Lithuania are 
compared to those in other CEE countries and to EU averages.

PMID: 11859639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Prog Urol. 2001 Dec;11(6):1195-204.

[Competitive morbidity ant its impact on life expectancy: evaluation and 
inclusion in the therapeutic decision regarding localized prostatic cancer].

[Article in French]

Soulié M(1), Villers A, Richaud P, Prapotnich D, Ruffion A, Grosclaude P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Urologique et d'Andrologie, CHU Rangueil, 31403 
Toulouse. SOULIE.M@chu-toulouse.fr

OBJECTIVES: The treatment decision taken by a multidisciplinary meeting for 
patients with localized prostate cancer must take into account the clinical 
stage of the cancer and its histological characteristics, but also the patient's 
age, general state and any concomitant diseases, as treatment is only beneficial 
when it induces a reduction of morbidity and specific mortality. The specific 
survival with or without recurrence after treatment for localized prostate 
cancer is long, at least more than 10 years. Curative treatment is generally not 
proposed to men with localized prostate cancer when his probability of survival 
related to a competitive morbidity (intercurrent medical disease) is estimated 
to be less than 10 years. The objective of this study was to measure the 
increase or reduction of the survival probability of a patient with localized 
prostate cancer according to his competitive morbidity, based on the mean life 
expectancy of the general population.
METHODS: Review of the literature.
RESULTS: Studies describing the natural history of prostate cancer show that the 
impact of treatment on morbidity of the cancer (local and/or metastatic) 
requires a life expectancy of about 8 to 10 years. The impact of a treatment on 
specific survival requires a life expectancy of about 13 to 15 years. The exact 
prevalence of diseases coexisting with prostate cancer is unknown. In the USA, 
The Index of Coexisting Disease (ICD), which takes into account 14 diseases, 
appears to be the most reliable tool to measure the competitive morbidity in 
patients with localized prostate cancer. Each disease is classified into 4 
levels of severity (score 0 to 3). A table indicates estimated life expectancies 
by age-group and by ICD score. All men with a high score (2 to 3) die within 10 
years after diagnosis, men with a score of 0 have a better estimated life 
expectancy according to age than that of the general population.
CONCLUSION: The upper age limit, theoretically set at 70 years, in order to 
propose curative treatment for localized prostate cancer needs to be reviewed 
(the mean life expectancy for a 70-year-old man is 12.9 years in France). 
According to the ICD, the life expectancy at 70 years is 14.8 years in the case 
of a score of 0 and 8.4 years in the case of a score of 2. In the case of a 
score of 2, the impact of curative treatment on localized prostate cancer would 
be real on morbidity, but not on specific mortality.

PMID: 11859652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2001 Nov;23(6):503-4.

[Thymoma-report of 166 patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Ge D(1), Zheng R, Fan H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Zhong Shan Hospital, Fu Dan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China.

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the characteristics of operation and the prognosis of 166 
patients with thymoma.
METHODS: 166 thymoma patients were treated from February 1985 to February 2000. 
By Masaoka staging system, there were 102 (61.4%) stage I, 28 (16.9%) stage II, 
24 (14.5%) stage III, 12 (7.2%) stage IV a and 0 stage IV b lesions. The 
relation between stage and survival rate was analyzed.
RESULTS: One (0.6%) patient died of the operation. 137 (82.5%) patients 
underwent radical operation. Thirty patients were lost to follow-up. With the 
life table method, the 10-year survival rate was 56.8%, with 79.8% for stage I, 
51.6% for stage II, 33.5% for stage III and 0% for stage IV patients.
CONCLUSION: Diagnosis of thymoma still depends on both clinical and pathological 
findings, which are correlated with stage. The principal treatment is to resect 
the tumor as completely as possible so as to relieve the symptoms and prolong 
the life of the patient.

PMID: 11859722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Neurooncol. 2001 Dec;55(3):195-204. doi: 10.1023/a:1013845004294.

The prognostic value of tumor markers in patients with glioblastoma multiforme: 
analysis of 32 patients and review of the literature.

Reavey-Cantwell JF(1), Haroun RI, Zahurak M, Clatterbuck RE, Parker RJ, Mehta R, 
Fruehauf JP, Brem H.

Author information:
(1)Hunterian Neurosurgical Laboratory, Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Although several studies have examined brain tumor markers for prognostic value, 
few investigations have stratified analysis based on specific histologic grade. 
The objective of this study was to evaluate a single histologic grade of glioma, 
the grade IV glioma or glioblastoma (World Health Organization Classification), 
with a comprehensive panel of tumor markers in an attempt to identify those with 
prognostic significance. Tumor samples from a cohort of patients with 
glioblastoma multiforme (n = 32) were examined for tumor markers, DNA analysis, 
and clinical variables in an attempt to determine a 'profile' for this tumor. We 
used univariate and multivariate statistical analysis to determine the 
prognostic value of tumor cell ploidy, percent S-phase, DNA index, p53, and 
Ki-67 labeling index, as well as the variables of gender, race, age, location of 
tumor, history of chemotherapy, and primary versus recurrent tumor. Two 
additional tumor markers, multidrug resistance gene 1 and 
glutathione-S-transferase subtype pi, were included in the sample testing, but 
were not analyzed statistically. Univariate analysis indicated that increasing 
age had a strong association with decreased survival. Female gender, increasing 
Ki-67, no chemotherapy before sample collection, and primary glioblastoma showed 
some association with decreased survival in the univariate model. The univariate 
results indicated that race, side of tumor, ploidy, S-phase, DNA index, and p53 
had no prognostic value. Multivariate modeling demonstrated that age, gender, 
and Ki-67 were the strongest factors associated with survival. The relevant 
literature is reviewed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013845004294
PMID: 11859975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Prosthet Orthot Int. 2001 Dec;25(3):186-94. doi: 10.1080/03093640108726601.

Consequences of non-vascular trans-femoral amputation: a survey of quality of 
life, prosthetic use and problems.

Hagberg K(1), Brånemark R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Göteborg University, Sahlgren University 
Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden. kerstin.hagberg@vgregion.se

Individuals with unilateral trans-femoral amputations due to non-vascular causes 
were studied in a mailed survey designed to investigate health-related quality 
of life (HRQL), prosthetic use and problems. The Swedish SF-36 Health Survey and 
a structured questionnaire designed for trans-femoral amputees were used. The 
series consisted of 97 subjects (60 men, 37 women), aged 20 to 69 years with a 
mean of 22 years since the amputation. Trauma was the cause of amputation in 
55%, tumour in 35% and other causes in 10%. Ninety-two (92) subjects (95%) had a 
prosthesis and 80 (82%) used it daily. General HRQL was significantly lower than 
Swedish age- and gender-matched norms in all dimensions as measured by SF-36. 
Most frequently reported problems that had led to reduction in quality of life 
were heat/sweating in the prosthetic socket (72%), sores/skin irritation from 
the socket (62%), inability to walk in woods and fields (61%) and inability to 
walk quickly (59%). Close to half were troubled by stump pain (51%), phantom 
limb pain (48%), back pain (47%) and pain in the other leg (46%). One fourth 
considered themselves to have a poor or extremely poor overall situation. 
Transfemoral amputation, due to non-vascular causes, has an evident impact on 
quality of life and there are considerable problems related to the amputation 
and the prosthesis. Efforts to improve the physical and the psychological 
well-being for this group, with a long life expectancy, are needed.

DOI: 10.1080/03093640108726601
PMID: 11860092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2002 Feb;16(2):261-73. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2002.01167.x.

The clinical and economic impact of competing management strategies for 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.

Ofman JJ(1), Dorn GH, Fennerty MB, Fass R.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Health Services Research, Division of 
Gastroenterology, Cedars-Sinai Health System, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common disorder in the 
primary care setting. Traditional management strategies consist of sequentially 
intensive therapeutic trials followed by invasive diagnostic testing for 
nonresponders. A high dose proton pump inhibitor trial (the "proton pump 
inhibitor test") has been shown to be an accurate diagnostic alternative, and 
may be an efficient initial approach to patients with GERD symptoms.
AIM: To examine the clinical, economic and policy implications of alternative 
management strategies for GERD.
METHODS: Decision analysis was used to calculate the clinical and economic 
outcomes of competing management strategies. The traditional strategy 
incorporates sequential therapeutic trials with more intensive therapy 
("step-up" approach) followed by sequential invasive diagnostic testing of 
nonresponders. The "proton pump inhibitor test" strategy includes an initial 
"proton pump inhibitor test" (7 days of omeprazole; 40 mg AM + 20 mg PM daily) 
followed by less intensive therapeutic trials in those testing positive 
("step-down" approach) with sequential invasive diagnostic testing as needed. 
Cost estimates were based on Medicare reimbursement and average wholesale drug 
prices. Probability estimates were derived from a systematic review of the 
published medical literature. Model results are reported as the average and 
incremental cost-per-symptom free patient and cost-per-quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: The average cost per patient was 1045 US dollars for the traditional 
step-up management strategy, compared to 1172 US dollars for the "proton pump 
inhibitor test" and step-down strategy. The percentage of patients who were 
symptom-free at 1 year was 50% for the traditional management strategy compared 
to 75% for the "proton pump inhibitor test" strategy. The "proton pump inhibitor 
test" strategy results in QALY gains of 0.01-0.05 depending on the utility 
estimate employed. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the "proton pump 
inhibitor test" strategy is 510 US dollars per additional symptomatic cure over 
1 year, and between 2822-10,160 US dollars per QALY gained. The traditional 
management strategy resulted in a greater than 5-fold increase in the 
utilization of upper endoscopy, which was partially offset by a 47% reduction in 
the use of ambulatory 24-h oesophageal pH monitoring. The reduced effectiveness 
of the traditional management strategy may be attributed in part to a 118% 
increase in the use of "high-dose" H2RAs while reducing the use of standard dose 
proton pump inhibitors by only 42% and "high-dose" proton pump inhibitors by 
57%.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this analysis, strategies utilizing the 
initial PPI test followed by a "step-down" approach may result in improved 
symptom relief and quality of life over 1 year, and more appropriate utilization 
of invasive diagnostic testing at a small marginal increase in total costs. 
These findings warrant a prospective trial comparing these competing management 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2002.01167.x
PMID: 11860409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. BMC Cancer. 2002;2:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-2-2. Epub 2002 Jan 30.

Raltitrexed (Tomudex) administration in patients with relapsed metastatic 
colorectal cancer after weekly irinotecan/5-Fluorouracil/Leucovorin 
chemotherapy.

Tsavaris N(1), Kosmas C, Vadiaka M, Koufos C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Pathophysiology, Laikon General 
Hospital, Athens University School of Medicine, Athens, Greece. 
tsavari1@otenet.gr

PURPOSE: The present study aimed at evaluating the efficacy of Raltitrexed, a 
specific thymidilate synthase inhibitor, in patients with advanced colorectal 
cancer (ACC) in relapse (>8 weeks) after a prior response or disease 
stabilization to first-line chemotherapy combination with 
lrinotecan+5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)+Leucovorin (LV).
METHODS: Twenty-five patients with metastatic ACC entered; 17 males/8 females, 
median age 61 (range: 47-70), median Karnovsky PS: 80 (70-90), and sites of 
metastases; liver: 21, lung: 4, lymph nodes: 7, peritoneal: 5 and a life 
expectancy of at least 3 months, were entered in the present pilot study. All 
patients had progressed after prior chemotherapy with lrinotecan+5-FU+LV. 
Raltitrexed was administered at a dose of 3 mg/m2 i.v. every 21 days.
RESULTS: Three patients (12%) achieved a partial response (PR), 8 (32%) had 
stable disease (SD), and the remaining 14 (56%) developed progressive disease 
(PD). Median time-to-progression (TTP) was 5.5 months (range, 2-8.5), and median 
overall survival (OS) 8 months (range, 4.0-12.5). Toxicity was generally mild; 
it consisted mainly of myelosuppression; neutropenia grade 1-2: 52%-grade 3: 
28%, and anemia grade 1-2 only: 36%. Mild mucositis grade 1-2 occurred in 13.5% 
of patients and was the principal non-hematologic toxicity.
CONCLUSION: Response to treatment with Raltitrexed is limited in patients with 
ACC failing after an initial response or non-progression to the weekly 
lrinotecan+5-FU+LV combination. However, it appears that a limited number of 
patients with PR/SD may derive clinical benefit, but final proof would require a 
randomized study.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-2-2
PMCID: PMC65542
PMID: 11860608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2001 Feb;22(1):51-3.

[Analysis of causes of death and YPLL on residents in the industrial pollution 
area in Chongqing from 1991 to 1998].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu D(1), Tang X, Miao J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing 400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the causes of death in residents living in the area of 
industrial pollution in Chongqing.
METHODS: Mortality rate, sequence of causes of death, years of potential life 
lost (YPLL) and the valued years of potential life lost (VYPLL) were used to 
analyze causes of death in 1991 - 1998. Community not polluted by industry was 
chosen to serve as control.
RESULTS: The annual average mortality rate of the residents was 7.34 per 
thousand (standard mortality rate 4.61 per thousand). The sequence of major 
causes of death was shown as below: malignant tumors (mortality rate 
198.07/10(5), standard mortality rate 126.35/10(5)), cerebrovascular diseases 
(mortality rate 159.13/10(5), standard mortality rate 92.66/10(5)), respiratory 
system diseases (mortality rate 107.33/10(5), standard mortality rate 
84.85/10(5)), cardiac diseases (mortality rate 95.36/10(5), standard mortality 
rate 59.37/10(5)) and accidental deaths (mortality rate 47.08/10(5), standard 
mortality rate 43.28/10(5)). Among malignant tumors, lung cancer took the lead 
with a mortality rate of 65.49/10(5) (standard mortality rate 45.27/10(5)). In 
both sequences of standard rates of YPLL and VYPLL for major causes of deaths, 
accidental death was always took the first place.
CONCLUSION: In order to reduce mortality rate of the residents in the area, it 
is necessary to strengthen the administration of natural and social environment 
of the area.

PMID: 11860846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2000 Mar;34(2):78-80.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of Beijing Fangshan cardiovascular prevention 
program in 1992 - 1997].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang G(1), Gu D, Wu X, Duan X, Xu X, Wu J, Xie B.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Disease Institute, Fu Wai Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100037, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a community-based cardiovascular disease (CVD) 
intervention program, undertaken over six years, was cost-effective.
METHODS: Based on Beijing Fangshan Cardiovascular Disease Comprehensive 
Prevention Program, the cost for intervention and expenditure saved from caring 
for CVD in the communities with intervention from 1992 to 1997 were calculated, 
and cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) gained as an indicator of effectiveness.
RESULTS: The cost for one DALY gained reduced gradually from 1992 to 1997, with 
an average ratio of cost to effectiveness of four to one (4:1). It cost annually 
1,586.00, 1,380.20, -2,350.80, -905.30, -1,495.60 and -1,766.70 RMB yuan for one 
life-year saved, from 1992 to 1997 respectively, in a gradually decreasing trend 
with the increase in length of intervention. After intervention for two years, 
ratio of cost to effectiveness has become negative since 1994, which meant a 
positive benefit from intervention. Sensitivity analysis showed that ratio of 
cost to effectiveness was little sensitive to the changes in discount rate, 
weight of age and increase in cost of hospitalization for stroke and coronary 
heart disease, which reflected its reliability.
CONCLUSION: Community-based comprehensive intervention for CVD in rural 
population is cost-effective.

PMID: 11860903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2000 May;34(3):159-61.

[Relationship between blood lipid level and apolipoprotein E gene polymorphism 
in offspring from longevity and non-longevity families].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang X(1), Sun J, Wang G, Ye G.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Child and Adolescent Health, Beijing Medical University, 
Beijing 100083, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study relationship between genetic factor and level of blood 
lipid.
METHODS: Levels of blood lipid and difference in apolipoprotein E (apo-E) allele 
frequencies were compared in 86 offspring in seven Uigur longevity families and 
62 offspring in nine Uigur non-longevity families and their relationship was 
explored.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age and occupation, blood indicators related to 
atherosclerosis were all lower in the offspring of longevity families than in 
non-longevity families, and those correlated inversely with it were higher in 
the former. Blood levels of triglyceride and apo-B were significant lower (P < 
0.05) and the ratio of HDL-ch to LDL-ch was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in 
male offspring of longevity families than of non-longevity families. The ratio 
of apo-A to apo-B was significantly higher in female offspring of longevity 
families than of non-longevity families. Frequency of epsilon4 allele also was 
significantly fewer in the offspring of longevity families than of non-longevity 
ones (P < 0.01). Also, analysis showed that individuals with epsilon4 allele had 
higher levels of serum total cholesterol, lower density lipoprotein cholesterol 
and apo-B than those with other alleles.
CONCLUSION: Average level of blood lipid was better in the offspring of 
longevity families than that of non-longevity families. apo-E allele 
polymorphism can in part explain its difference.

PMID: 11860925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2000 Jul;34(4):199-202.

[Trend and causes of injury deaths among children in Macheng city of Hubei 
province during 1969 through 1998].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu X(1), Wu K, Si D, Li J, Jia G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Child Health, School of Public Health, Tongji 
Medical University, Wuhan 430030, China.

OBJECTIVES: To describe time trend of mortality and proportional mortality of 
injury and to determine the characteristics of distribution of injury deaths in 
children aged 0 - 14 in Macheng city during 1969 to 1998.
METHODS: Data were collected from Notification System for Deaths of Macheng City 
during 1969 to 1998. Injury claimed 14,510 deaths caused by injury in children 
in total during these years. Changes in mortality and proportional mortality for 
injury were fitted with log-linear and simple linear regression models to 
compare their difference in children with different gender and ages.
RESULTS: Both injury mortality and proportional mortality in infants declined 
during the past 30 years, and injury mortality dropped but proportional 
mortality due to injury increased gradually in children aged 1 - 14 years old. 
From 1984 to 1998, the average injury mortality was 81.36 per 100,000 children 
of 0 - 14 of age, with a potential years of life lost rate was 57.92 per 1,000 
children. Boys had higher injury mortality than girls. Injury mortality in 
infants reached 560.15 per 100,000, and mechanical suffocation was the leading 
cause of injury deaths in infants. Injury mortality was 95.48 per 100,000 in 
children aged 1 - 4 years. Injury deaths in children aged 0 - 4 accounted for 
73.2 percent of total injury deaths. And, drowning was the leading cause of 
injury deaths in children aged 1 - 14 years.
CONCLUSION: Children under five years old were the vulnerable population for 
injury death needed for special care and strategy and measures should be taken 
to control injury in children in the rural areas.

PMID: 11860928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2000 Jul;34(4):218-20.

[A study on methods to measure the social burden of disease and their 
significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Pang L(1), Jin S, Song G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Health, North China Coal Medical College, Tangshan 
063000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effects of social burden of disease (BOD) on the total 
BOD.
METHODS: With stroke as an example, BOD was measured using the index, disability 
adjusted life years (DALY), and partial social BOD was measured using another 
index, time lost for nursing care of hospitalized patients.
RESULTS: The burden of stroke was 11.70 DALYs per thousand in men and 9.38 in 
women, respectively, and the burden for caring of patients with stroke during 
hospitalization accounted for 2.2% and 2.8% of the total BOD for men and women, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Effects of social BOD should be taken into consideration in 
measurement of total BOD.

PMID: 11860934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Am J Ophthalmol. 2002 Mar;133(3):365-72. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9394(01)01423-4.

A cost-utility analysis of interventions for severe proliferative 
vitreoretinopathy.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Sharma S, Busbee B, Landy J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 
19031, USA. Gary0514@aol.com

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report a reference case, patient 
preference-based, incremental, cost-utility analysis for treatments of retinal 
detachment associated with severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR).
DESIGN: Computer-based economic model utilizing data from the Medicare health 
insurance system in the United States.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis compared vitreoretinal surgery using expanding 
gases and silicone oil therapy to the natural course of retinal detachment 
associated with severe PVR. The model applies long-term published visual data 
from the Silicone Study Group, time tradeoff utility analysis, decision analysis 
with Markov modeling, and discounting of costs and health benefits as per the 
Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine. The major outcome measure 
was in year 2000 United States dollars per quality-adjusted life-year 
(dollars/QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Vitreoretinal surgery for retinal detachment complicated by severe PVR, 
as compared with no treatment, resulted in a mean gain of 0.128-0.200 discounted 
(3% annual rate) quality-adjusted life-years per treated patient. Silicone oil 
(dollars/QALY gained of 40,252 dollars) was slightly more cost-effective than 
perfluoropropane (C(3)F(8)) gas (dollars/QALY gained of 46,926 dollars) in eyes 
with PVR without previous vitrectomy, whereas C(3)F(8) gas (dollars/QALY gained 
of 46,162 dollars) was more cost-effective than silicone oil (dollars/QALY 
gained of 62,383 dollars) with previous vitrectomy and PVR. Sensitivity analysis 
resulted in a dollars/QALY gained of 13,347 dollars when 10% of opposite eyes 
had a severe visual loss to 202,128 dollars when a discount rate of 10% was 
utilized and opposite eyes initially had good vision.
CONCLUSIONS: The incremental expense of interventions for retinal detachment 
associated with PVR is cost-effective when compared with other widely accepted 
interventional therapies across diverse medical specialties.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9394(01)01423-4
PMID: 11860974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. AIDS Alert. 2002 Jan;17(1):7-8, 2.

Infection with GBV-C linked to longer life.

[No authors listed]

New research has established a link between HIV patients being infected with a 
virus that is similar to hepatitis C and having a slower HIV disease 
progression. Investigators first began to study GBV-C in the mid-1990s as a 
possible cause of chronic hepatitis, but they quickly lost interest when the 
virus was shown to have no direct link to the disease.

PMID: 11862737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Eur Heart J. 2002 Mar;23(6):458-66. doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2838.

A cardiovascular life history. A life course analysis of the original Framingham 
Heart Study cohort.

Peeters A(1), Mamun AA, Willekens F, Bonneux L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

AIMS The objective of this paper is to measure the potential burden of 
cardiovascular disease within the original Framingham Heart Study cohort by 
transforming its well-described epidemiological measures into time-based health 
policy measures, such as life years lost to or lived with the disease. METHODS 
AND RESULTS We constructed multi-state life tables of the Framingham Heart Study 
cohort to calculate dwelling times with a history of cardiovascular disease. 
Age-specific probabilities determined transitions from healthy through disease 
to death. For this synthetic cohort, from age 50 men (women) live on average 26 
(32) years; 20 (26) free of cardiovascular disease. Allowing occupancy of more 
than one disease state, 50-year-old males (females) live 2 X 9 (1 X 2) years 
with a history of myocardial infarction, 0 X 93 (1 X 2) with a history of 
stroke, and 0 X 67 (0 X 93) with congestive heart failure. Having ever suffered 
acute myocardial infarction, stroke or congestive heart failure, life expectancy 
is reduced by 9 (13), 12 (15) or 16 (16) years, respectively in 60-year-old men 
(women). CONCLUSIONS Transforming occurrence probabilities into time-based 
health measures, the prevalence of cardiovascular disease is remarkable: from 
age 50, 20% of remaining life expectancy is lived with the disease. Such 
measures are integral to appropriate health planning and assessment of the 
potential population health value of various treatment and prevention 
strategies.

Copyright 2001 The European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2838
PMID: 11863348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1999 Mar;33(2):101-3.

[Synthetic assessment of health impact of cerebrovascular diseases on potential 
health days of life lost].

[Article in Chinese]

Yan Y(1), Sun Z, Zeng X, Yu R, Hu H, Yan D, Peng Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, Hunan Medical University, Changsha 410078.

OBJECTIVE: To assess synthetically the impact on population health caused by 
cerebrovascular diseases.
METHODS: Incidence, duration of disease, disabilities and deaths of 
cerebrovascular diseases were analyzed with potential health days of life lost 
(PHDLL) as an indicator in urban areas of Changsha, Hunan Province.
RESULTS: The PHDLL caused by cerebrovascular disease totaled 2 624.94 days per 
thousand of population, 33.01% of them attributed to deaths and 53.44% to 
chronic disability.
CONCLUSION: Hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease mainly lead to death and 
ischemic one caused chronic disability.

PMID: 11864464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1999 May;33(3):143-5.

[Quality of life as a time-dependent covariable in cox regression analysis and 
its application].

[Article in Chinese]

Wan C(1), Fang J, He Z, Zhang Y, He L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics, Kunming Medical College, Kunming 650031.

OBJECTIVE: To present a statistical method for combined evaluation of the 
quality of life and survival time and to study some issues in its application.
METHODS: Based on Cox regression model, quality of life was used as a 
time-dependent covariable in analysis of the influence factors for the 
effectiveness of detoxification in 212 drug addicts.
RESULTS: The influence factors entered the regression equation were ways of 
detoxification for drug abusers, marital status, mode of drug abuse, frequency 
of detoxification, maternal educational level, maternal occupation, family 
atmosphere and help and encourage from their relatives and friends, with their 
hazard ratios of 0.673, 1.315, 1.319, 0.867, 1.120, 1.318, 0.724 and 1.150, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Combined statistical analysis of quality of life and survival time 
was a better method for the evaluation of the effectiveness of detoxification 
and its influence factors, which depended mainly on their mother's 
qualification, family atmosphere, mode and length of drug abuse, etc.

PMID: 11864470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Genet Res. 2001 Dec;78(3):289-302. doi: 10.1017/s001667230100533x.

The power of the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) with both case-parent 
and control-parent trios.

Deng HW(1), Chen WM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Statistical Genetics, College of Life Sciences, 
Hunan Normal University, ChangSha, Hunan 410081, P. R. China. deng@creighton.edu

The transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) customarily uses affected children 
and their parents (often case-parent trios, TDTD). Control-parent trios are 
necessary to guard against spurious significant results due to segregation 
distortion but are not generally utilized in the identification of disease 
susceptibility loci (DSL). Controls are often easy to recruit and the TDT can 
easily be extended to include control-parent trios into the analyses with 
unrelated case-parent trios. We present an extension of the TDT (TDTDC) that 
incorporates unrelated cases and controls and their parents into a single 
analysis. We develop a simple and accurate analytical method for computing the 
statistical power of various TDT (e.g. the TDTD, TDTDC, TDTDC and TDTC that 
employ control-parent trios only) under any genetic model. We investigated the 
power of these TDT, and particularly compared the relative power of the TDTD and 
TDTDC. We found that the TDTDC is almost always more powerful than the TDTC and 
TDTD. The relative power of the TDTDC and TDTD depends largely upon a number of 
parameters identified in the study. This study provides a basis for efficient 
use of control-parent trios in DSL identification.

DOI: 10.1017/s001667230100533x
PMID: 11865718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2001 Dec;15(6):835-49. doi: 
10.1053/bega.2001.0244.

Ageing: definitions, mechanisms and the magnitude of the problem.

Balcombe NR(1), Sinclair A.

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Centre for Health Services 
Research (CHESS), University of Warwick, UK. nickbalcombe@talk21.com

All multi-cellular organisms undergo change with time. Conception heralds the 
onset of growth and development, leading to reproductive competence and 
propagation of the species. With time, organisms age, leading to death as a 
final end-point. Whilst our knowledge and definitions of growth and reproduction 
are firmly established, the concept of ageing remains less well understood. One 
of the reasons for the lack of a singular definition of ageing is that it can be 
considered in many different ways, according to social, behavioural, 
physiological, morphological, cellular and molecular changes. Research has led 
to a number of theories being proposed that may explain the ageing process. In 
this chapter, we will review some of these theories and address some of the 
following fundamental questions: What is ageing? How can ageing be measured? 
When does ageing begin? When is an organism defined as old?

DOI: 10.1053/bega.2001.0244
PMID: 11866480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Lancet. 2002 Feb 16;359(9306):604-13. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)07749-8.

Liver and kidney preservation by perfusion.

St Peter SD(1), Imber CJ, Friend PJ.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Surgery, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of 
Oxford, OX3 9DU, Oxford, UK.

The clinical boundaries of transplantation have been set in an era of simple 
cold storage. Research in organ preservation has led to the development of flush 
solutions that buffer the harsh molecular conditions which develop during 
ischaemia, and provide stored organs that are fit to sustain life after 
transplantation. Although simple and efficient, this method might be reaching 
its limit with respect to the duration, preservation, and the quality of organs 
that can be preserved. In addition, flush preservation does not allow for 
adequate viability assessment. There is good evidence that preservation times 
will be extended by the provision of continuous cellular substrate. Stimulation 
of in-vivo conditions by ex-vivo perfusion could also mean that marginal organs 
will be salvaged for transplantation. Perfusion will also allow for assessing 
the viability of organs before transplantation in a continuous fashion. The 
cumulative effect of these benefits would include expansion of the donor pool, 
less risk of primary non-function, and extension of the safe preservation 
period. Use of non-heart-beating donors, international organ sharing, and 
precise calculation of the risk of primary organ failure could become standard.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)07749-8
PMID: 11867131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Am J Public Health. 2002 Mar;92(3):365-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.92.3.365.

Effect of nevirapine toxicity on choice of perinatal HIV prevention strategies.

Stringer JS(1), Sinkala M, Rouse DJ, Goldenberg RL, Vermund SH.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Women's Health, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA. stringer@uab.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the validity of concerns about the toxicity of 
nevirapine (NVP) that have delayed its implementation as a perinatal HIV 
prevention strategy.
METHODS: A decision analysis model compared 3 strategies: single-dose NVP, 
short-course zidovudine (ZDV), and no intervention.
RESULTS: NVP would prevent more deaths than ZDV and no intervention as long as 
the rate of NVP toxicity did not exceed, respectively, 9 times that observed in 
the earlier NVP clinical trial and 42 times that observed in the clinical trial. 
NVP would be economically preferable to ZDV as long as the rate of toxicity did 
not exceed 22 times that observed in the clinical trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Field implementation of NVP should not be delayed by concerns about 
its toxicity.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.3.365
PMCID: PMC1447080
PMID: 11867311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Mar;57(3):B109-14. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.3.b109.

Multiple stressors in Caenorhabditis elegans induce stress hormesis and extended 
longevity.

Cypser JR(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 80303, 
USA.

We demonstrate here that the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans displays broad 
hormetic abilities. Hormesis is the induction of beneficial effects by exposure 
to low doses of otherwise harmful chemical or physical agents. Heat as well as 
pretreatment with hyperbaric oxygen or juglone (a chemical that generates 
reactive oxygen species) significantly increased subsequent resistance to the 
same challenge. Cross-tolerance between juglone and oxygen was also observed. 
The same heat or oxygen pretreatment regimens that induced subsequent stress 
resistance also increased life expectancy and maximum life span of populations 
undergoing normal aging. Pretreatment with ultraviolet or ionizing radiation did 
not promote subsequent resistance or increased longevity. In dose-response 
studies, induced thermotolerance paralleled the induced increase in life 
expectancy, which is consistent with a common origin.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.3.b109
PMID: 11867647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Mar 5;99(5):2748-53. doi:
10.1073/pnas.032671199.  Epub 2002 Feb 26.

High-quality life extension by the enzyme peptide methionine sulfoxide 
reductase.

Ruan H(1), Tang XD, Chen ML, Joiner ML, Sun G, Brot N, Weissbach H, Heinemann 
SH, Iverson L, Wu CF, Hoshi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2002 May 14;99(10):7184. Chen, M-L [corrected to 
Chen, Mai-Lei]; Joiner, MA [corrected to Joiner, Mei-Ling A]; Heinemann, Stephen 
H [corrected to Heinemann, Stefan H].

Cumulative oxidative damages to cell constituents are considered to contribute 
to aging and age-related diseases. The enzyme peptide methionine sulfoxide 
reductase A (MSRA) catalyzes the repair of oxidized methionine in proteins by 
reducing methionine sulfoxide back to methionine. However, whether MSRA plays a 
role in the aging process is poorly understood. Here we report that 
overexpression of the msrA gene predominantly in the nervous system markedly 
extends the lifespan of the fruit fly Drosophila. The MSRA transgenic animals 
are more resistant to paraquat-induced oxidative stress, and the onset of 
senescence-induced decline in the general activity level and reproductive 
capacity is delayed markedly. The results suggest that oxidative damage is an 
important determinant of lifespan, and MSRA may be important in increasing the 
lifespan in other organisms including humans.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.032671199
PMCID: PMC122419
PMID: 11867705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Gastrointest Endosc. 2002 Mar;55(3):366-70. doi: 10.1067/mge.2002.121876.

Polyurethane-covered metal stent for management of distal malignant biliary 
obstruction.

Isayama H(1), Komatsu Y, Tsujino T, Yoshida H, Tada M, Shiratori Y, Kawabe T, 
Omata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Department of Endoscopy and Endoscopic 
Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8655, japan.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of polyurethane-covered metal expandable stents for 
treatment of neoplastic distal biliary obstruction was analyzed.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients with unresectable malignant tumors involving the 
mid to distal bile duct who were seen with obstructive jaundice were 
consecutively enrolled. Eighteen patients underwent endoscopic implantation of a 
polyurethane-covered metal stent and 3 patients underwent transhepatic insertion 
because of duodenal obstruction. The stent patency, complications, and patient 
survival were analyzed.
RESULTS: Effective biliary decompression was achieved in all patients. Adverse 
events were minor: mild pancreatitis (1) and cholecystitis (2) occurred within 7 
days of stent insertion. Mean survival and stent patency were 233 days and 206 
days, respectively. Stent occlusion occurred in 3 patients (14%) after a mean of 
188 days. Tumor ingrowth through the stent mesh was not observed. However, 2 
stents were occluded by tumor overgrowth and 1 by compacted alimentary debris.
CONCLUSIONS: A polyurethane membrane may prevent tumor ingrowth and reduce the 
occlusion rate for expandable metal stents implanted in patients with malignant 
obstruction of the distal bile duct.

DOI: 10.1067/mge.2002.121876
PMID: 11868010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Obes Surg. 2002 Feb;12(1):77-82. doi: 10.1381/096089202321144630.

Modifications of metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors after weight loss 
induced by laparoscopic gastric banding.

Bacci V(1), Basso MS, Greco F, Lamberti R, Elmore U, Restuccia A, Perrotta N, 
Silecchia G, Bucci A.

Author information:
(1)Servizio Speciale di Dietologia, Policlinico Umberto I University Hospital, 
Italy. mc1635@mclink.it

BACKGROUND: The well-known inverse relation between life expectancy and BMI, 
particularly in morbid obesity, is presumably in large part due to multiple 
cardiovascular and metabolic comorbidities. Severely obese patients treated with 
laparoscopic adjustable silicone gastric banding (LASGB) were evaluated for such 
risk factors before and 1 year after LASGB.
METHODS: 130 individuals (age 20-66, BMI 34-59 kg/m2) who underwent LASGB 
between 1996 and 2000 were studied; 50 of them were available for reevaluation 
12 months after surgery. The presence and severity of diabetes (DM), 
hypertension (HTN), hypercholesterolemia (HC) and hypertriglyceridemia (HT) were 
assessed before and after surgery. In 18 of them erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
(ESR) were also measured.
RESULTS: Comorbidities were highly prevalent at the initial evaluation: DM 10%, 
HTN 32%, HC 37%, HT 27%. In the subgroup reevaluated after surgery, prevalence 
of DM decreased from 15% to 6%, HTN from 37% to 25%, HC from 36% to 25%, and HT 
from 29% to 13%, with an average BMI loss from 44.1 to 35.9. ESR decreased from 
a preoperative value of 36.7 +/- 22.6 mm/hr to 18.3 +/- 11.9 mm/hr at 1 year (p 
< 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Morbidly obese subjects respond to LASGB with an impressive 
reduction of comorbidities which is sustained for at least 1 year, well after 
the initial acute negative energy balance and when weight tends to stabilize. 
The high prevalence of elevated ESR, which has been considered a strong 
predictor of coronary mortality, confirms previous reports of its association 
with obesity, and the clear tendency to normalization with weight loss may 
represent a further element contributing to lower morbidity.

DOI: 10.1381/096089202321144630
PMID: 11868304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Intensive Crit Care Nurs. 2000 Apr;16(2):88-97. doi: 10.1054/iccn.1999.1582.

Health-related quality of life of ICU survivors: review of the literature.

Chaboyer W(1), Elliott D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing and Health, Griffith University Gold Coast, Queensland, 
Australia. W.Chaboyer@mailbox.gu.edu.au

The importance of health-related quality of life (HRQL) as a relevant outcome 
measure for patients requiring intensive care unit (ICU) management has only 
recently been recognized. A better understanding of how this expensive service 
affects the health and well-being of its survivors will allow nurses and other 
health care professionals to plan for and provide appropriate follow-up care. 
This paper contains a review of the theoretical basis for quality-of-life 
measures, discussion of some of the methodological issues, and examination of 
the findings from recent studies of the quality of life of ICU patients. 
Although not conclusive, the review identified that ICU survivors generally have 
poorer HRQL scores after a 6-12 month period of recovery than during their 
pre-admission period. This cohort also have lower HRQL than the age-adjusted 
general population. Despite this apparent poorer state of health, participants 
often claimed to be satisfied with their HRQL. Methodological weaknesses were 
evident in the studies reviewed, Challenges in terms of recruitment and 
retention of subjects, instrumentation and data collection became evident from 
this review. Continued research in this area is recommended and should address 
the weaknesses identified.

DOI: 10.1054/iccn.1999.1582
PMID: 11868593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. CMAJ. 2002 Feb 5;166(3):293, 295.

Rehabilitating Afghanistan.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2002 Jul 23;167(2):126.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2002 Feb 5;166(3):361.

PMCID: PMC99298
PMID: 11868632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2002 Feb;46(Pt 2):168-78. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2788.2002.00384.x.

Healthcare costs of intellectual disability in the Netherlands: a 
cost-of-illness perspective.

Polder JJ(1), Meerding WJ, Bonneux L, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Erasmus 
University, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. polder@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Healthcare costs are continuously increasing, and impose a strong responsibility 
on governments for an adequate allocation of resources among healthcare 
provisions and patients. The aims of the present study were to describe the 
healthcare costs of intellectual disability (ID) and other mental disorders in 
the context of the total costs of all other diseases, and to determinate the 
future need of healthcare resources, especially for ID and mental disorders. The 
present authors performed a top-down cost-of-illness study comprising all 
healthcare costs of the Netherlands in 1994. Data on healthcare use were 
obtained for all 22 healthcare sectors, and used to ascribe costs to disease 
groups, age and sex. Costs of mental disorders are by far the largest in the 
Dutch healthcare system. Some 25.8% of total disease-specific costs could be 
ascribed to mental disorders: psychiatric conditions, 10.6%; ID, 9.0%; and 
dementia, 6.2%. There are large differences between age and sex groups. The 
costs of ID and schizophrenia are higher among men, and the costs of dementia 
and depression are higher among women. The age pattern shows two peaks: the 
first occurs at 25-35 years of age (ID and psychiatric conditions); and the 
second at 75-85 years of age (dementia). Time trends between 1988 and 1994 show 
an average annual growth rate of 5.2% for total healthcare costs: psychiatric 
conditions, 4.8%; ID, 5.4%; and dementia, 9.4%. Demographic projections suggest 
a less-than-average cost increase for ID and psychiatric disorders (with annual 
growth rates of 0.2% and 0.4%, respectively) compared to the costs of dementia 
and total healthcare (with annual growth rates of 1.6% and 0.9%, respectively). 
Intellectual disability and mental disorders represent a large part of 
healthcare use in the Netherlands. The costs will inevitably increase because of 
the ageing of the population and increasing life expectancy among people with 
disabilities. Non-specific cost containment measures may endanger the quality of 
care for vulnerable people at younger and older ages.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2788.2002.00384.x
PMID: 11869388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Twin Res. 2001 Oct;4(5):321-6. doi: 10.1375/1369052012650.

The foetal origins of adult disease: interpreting the evidence from twin 
studies.

Leon DA(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom. 
david.leon@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Twin Res. 2002 Aug;5(4):308-9.

Twin studies have a contribution to make to the debate concerning the foetal 
origins of adult disease. Twins are growth retarded compared to singletons and 
experience post-natal catch-up growth. However, there is no evidence that twins 
are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Studying whether discordance in 
size at birth within monozygotic twin pairs is predictive of discordance in 
later life disease should help resolve whether the association between size at 
birth and later disease is due to common genetic factors. Results from studies 
of blood pressure in childhood and adult life looking at these within twin 
effects are far from conclusive. There are, however, methodological problems in 
the interpretation of these results, not least of which is the relatively small 
numbers of twin pairs studied. Studies exploring the effect of zygosity and 
chorion type on later disease provide may provide a useful extension of the 
