OBJECTIVES: The impact of use of health-related quality of life (HRQL) scores 
associated with the disability-adjusted life year (DALY), the quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY), and the years of healthy life (YHL) measure on burden of 
disease estimates by income and race for five illnesses was studied.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Abridged life tables were constructed using 1997 death 
certificate data from the National Center for Health Statistics. These tables 
were then quality-adjusted using prevalence data from the National Health 
Interview Survey and HRQL scores obtained using the Quality of Well-Being scale, 
the DALY, and the YHL measure to estimate burden of disease for five common 
diseases. Separate estimates were made for low and higher income families as 
well as black persons and white persons.
RESULTS: Measure-related burden of disease estimates differed substantially from 
one another. Rank order of disease burden was not maintained across measures. 
Discrepancies in the rank order of disease were greater when different 
sociodemographic groups were examined.
CONCLUSIONS: Diseases and demographic groups will receive differing priorities 
for intervention or research depending on which measurement system is used to 
inform decision-making. Refinement and standardization of measures is necessary 
to enhance their utility for medical care and public health policy applications.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200203000-00009
PMID: 11880798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Apr 1;34(7):885-94. doi: 10.1086/338956. Epub 2002 Feb
19.

Do the benefits of varicella vaccination outweigh the long-term risks? A 
decision-analytic model for policymakers and pediatricians.

Rothberg M(1), Bennish ML, Kao JS, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Informatics and Telemedicine, 
Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Although varicella vaccine is recommended for infants, many physicians and 
parents have withheld vaccination from infants because of concerns about the 
vaccine's long-term efficacy. We used a decision-analytic Markov model to 
examine the effects of decreasing vaccine efficacy on individuals and society. 
The model incorporated published data on age-specific incidence, morbidity, and 
mortality rates, as well as data on shifting disease burden from childhood to 
adulthood as vaccine compliance increases. The effects of 2 vaccination 
strategies---vaccinating infants at age 12 months and waiting to vaccinate until 
children are 10 years of age---were compared with the effects of no vaccination. 
If the efficacy of the vaccine were to decrease by 75%, then 50% compliance with 
vaccination at age 12 months would save 1800 life-years and 12,800 
quality-adjusted life-years annually in the United States. The quality-adjusted 
life expectancy of individuals vaccinated at age 12 months would be 63 h longer 
than that of nonvaccinated individuals and would increase to 79 h as vaccination 
compliance increases and the burden of chickenpox shifts to adulthood. Varicella 
vaccination of infants at age 12 months appears to be beneficial, even if the 
efficacy of the vaccine declines substantially.

DOI: 10.1086/338956
PMID: 11880952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nefrologia. 2001;21(6):588-91.

[Availability of permanent vascular access at the beginning of hemodialysis: 
role of the pre-dialysis consultation].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez-Ude F(1), Alvarez R, Velasco S, Fernández-Reyes MJ, Mon C, Sánchez R.

Author information:
(1)Sección de Nefrología y Unidad de Diálisis, Hospital General, Segovia.

PMID: 11881429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. J Eval Clin Pract. 2002 Feb;8(1):61-70. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2753.2002.00315.x.

Cost-effectiveness of ancrod treatment of acute ischaemic stroke: results from 
the Stroke Treatment with Ancrod Trial (STAT).

Samsa GP(1), Matchar DB, Williams GR, Levy DE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Health Policy Research, Suite 230, Duke University, 2200 
West Main Street, Durham, NC 27705, USA. samsa001@mc.duke.edu

RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: This paper describes a recent randomized 
controlled trial in which 42% of patients receiving ancrod attained a favourable 
outcome in comparison with 34% of controls. Although the above effect size 
corresponds to a number needed to treat (to achieve a favourable outcome) of 
approximately 13, intuition does not necessarily suggest what would be the 
overall impact of a treatment with this level of efficacy.
METHODS: The objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ancrod. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis of data from the Stroke Treatment with Ancrod Trial 
(STAT) trial was carried out. The participants were 495 patients with data on 
functional status at the conclusion of follow-up. Short-term results were based 
upon utilization and quality of life observed during the trial; these were 
merged with expected long-term results obtained through simulation using the 
Stroke Policy Model. The main outcome measure was incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio.
RESULTS: Ancrod treatment resulted in both better quality-adjusted life 
expectancy and lower medical costs than placebo as supported by sensitivity 
analysis. The cost differential was primarily attributable to the long-term 
implications of ancrod's role in reducing disability.
CONCLUSIONS: If ancrod is even modestly effective, it will probably be 
cost-effective (and, indeed, cost-saving) as well. The net population-level 
impact of even modestly effective stroke treatments can be substantial.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2753.2002.00315.x
PMID: 11882102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;123(3):406-8. doi:
10.1067/mtc.2002.121526.

QALYs or quackery? The quagmire of quantifying the cost of breathing.

Egan TM.

Comment on
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;123(3):411-8; discussion 418-20.

DOI: 10.1067/mtc.2002.121526
PMID: 11882808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;123(3):411-8; discussion 418-20. doi: 
10.1067/mtc.2002.120342.

An economic evaluation of lung transplantation.

Anyanwu AC(1), McGuire A, Rogers CA, Murday AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, City University, London, UK.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;123(3):406-8.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2003 May;125(5):1175-6; author reply 1176.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to determine the cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained with lung transplantation relative to medical treatment for 
end-stage lung disease in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: Patients on the transplant waiting list were used to represent medical 
treatment. Four-year national survival data were extrapolated to 15 years by 
means of parametric techniques. Quality-adjusted life-years were derived by 
means of utility scores obtained from a cross-section of patients. Resource 
consumption and costs were based on local and national sources. Costs and 
benefits were discounted at an annual rate of 6%.
RESULTS: Across a 15-year period lung transplantation yielded mean benefits 
(relative to medical treatment) of 2.1, 3.3, and 3.6 quality-adjusted life-years 
for single-lung, double-lung, and heart-lung transplantation, respectively. 
During the same period the mean cost of medical treatment was estimated at 
$73,564, compared with $176,640, $180,528, and $178,387 for single-lung, 
double-lung, and heart-lung transplantation, respectively. The costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained were $48,241 for single-lung, $32,803 for 
double-lung, and $29,285 for heart-lung transplantation. Sensitivity analysis 
found the principal determinants of cost-effectiveness to be quality of life and 
maintenance costs after transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung transplantation results in survival and quality of life gains 
but remains expensive, with cost-effectiveness limited by substantial mortality 
and morbidity and high costs. The cost-effectiveness of lung transplantation can 
be improved with lowered immunosuppression costs and improvements in quality of 
life after transplantation.

DOI: 10.1067/mtc.2002.120342
PMID: 11882810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Biol Chem. 2002 May 24;277(21):18881-90. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111773200. Epub
 2002 Mar 7.

Manipulation of a nuclear NAD+ salvage pathway delays aging without altering 
steady-state NAD+ levels.

Anderson RM(1), Bitterman KJ, Wood JG, Medvedik O, Cohen H, Lin SS, Manchester 
JK, Gordon JI, Sinclair DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 2013 Aug 16;288(33):24160.

Yeast deprived of nutrients exhibit a marked life span extension that requires 
the activity of the NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase, Sir2p. Here we show 
that increased dosage of NPT1, encoding a nicotinate phosphoribosyltransferase 
critical for the NAD(+) salvage pathway, increases Sir2-dependent silencing, 
stabilizes the rDNA locus, and extends yeast replicative life span by up to 60%. 
Both NPT1 and SIR2 provide resistance against heat shock, demonstrating that 
these genes act in a more general manner to promote cell survival. We show that 
Npt1 and a previously uncharacterized salvage pathway enzyme, Nma2, are both 
concentrated in the nucleus, indicating that a significant amount of NAD(+) is 
regenerated in this organelle. Additional copies of the salvage pathway genes, 
PNC1, NMA1, and NMA2, increase telomeric and rDNA silencing, implying that 
multiple steps affect the rate of the pathway. Although SIR2-dependent processes 
are enhanced by additional NPT1, steady-state NAD(+) levels and NAD(+)/NADH 
ratios remain unaltered. This finding suggests that yeast life span extension 
may be facilitated by an increase in the availability of NAD(+) to Sir2, 
although not through a simple increase in steady-state levels. We propose a 
model in which increased flux through the NAD(+) salvage pathway is responsible 
for the Sir2-dependent extension of life span.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111773200
PMID: 11884393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2002 Feb;28(1):79-87. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-20566.

Improved cancer mortality with low-molecular-weight heparin treatment: a review 
of the evidence.

Cosgrove RH(1), Zacharski LR, Racine E, Andersen JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Harper University Hospital, Detroit Medical Center, 
Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA. r_cosgrove@hotmail.com

Work with low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) continues to provide suggestions 
for survival advantages among patients with cancer diagnoses. Momentum is 
building in support of this theory through reports, the vast majority of which 
are derived from secondary analyses of clinical trials on the treatment of 
thromboembolism. The data retrieved from such studies that compare 
unfractionated heparin (UFH) with LMWH indicate that LMWH is equally beneficial 
if not more beneficial to cancer patients in terms of survival. In retrospective 
analysis, this improved life expectancy is not considered a result of reduced 
complications from thromboembolism. Thus, theories of antitumor effects of LMWH 
have developed, supported by evidence that most of the survival benefits are 
during long-term comparisons. Reports describing the effects of heparin in the 
setting of cancer have existed for over a half-century, although specific 
mechanisms for the marginal results seen thus far have yet to surface. Proposals 
for the most likely targets of the effective heparins include enzyme 
interaction, cellular growth modifications, and antiangiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-20566
PMID: 11885028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Croat Med J. 2002 Apr;43(2):240-4.

Bulgarian population in transitional period.

Georgieva L(1), Powles J, Genchev G, Salchev P, Poptodorov G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, Faculty of Public Health, 
Medical University, Sofia 1527, Bulgaria. lidia@omega.bg

In the transition period from a communist to market-oriented economy, Bulgaria 
faces several public health challenges. One of them is the decline in population 
(estimated fall from current 8.25 million to around 6 million in 2045), mainly 
due to emigration and pronounced fall in fertility. Infant mortality is still 
relatively high (over 15/1,000 live births), and the incidence of tuberculosis 
is on the rise. Total mortality shows a steady upward trend from 12.1/1,000 in 
1990 to 14.3/1,000 in 1998. Trends in ischemic heart disease are comparable to 
those in other Central and Eastern European countries, but stroke mortality is 
notably higher. This calls for detailed epidemiological studies of risk factors, 
such as salt consumption, as well as preventive programs for detection and 
control of high blood pressure. The problems of smoking and alcohol abuse should 
be addressed by a coordinated public health and legal measures.

PMID: 11885054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Ann Periodontol. 2000 Dec;5(1):101-8. doi: 10.1902/annals.2000.5.1.101.

Survival of various implant-supported prosthesis designs following 36 months of 
clinical function.

Rodriguez AM(1), Orenstein IH, Morris HF, Ochi S.

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of endosseous dental implants to replace natural teeth lost 
to trauma, dental caries, or periodontal disease has become a predictable form 
of prosthetic treatment since gaining popularity in the early 1980s. While 
numerous clinical studies have focused on the survival of implants, few address 
the survival of different prosthesis designs.
METHODS: Beginning in 1991, 882 prostheses supported by more than 2,900 implants 
(687 patients) were placed by the Department of Veterans Affairs Dental Implant 
Clinical Research Group (DICRG). These prostheses were divided into five 
research strata based on arch location. The recommended design for each stratum 
was: bar-supported overdenture (maxillary completely edentulous); screw-retained 
hybrid denture (mandibular completely edentulous); screw-retained fixed partial 
denture (mandibular and maxillary posterior partially edentulous); and cemented 
single crown (maxillary anterior single tooth). Alternative overdenture designs 
were utilized in the edentulous arches when the recommended prosthesis could not 
be fabricated. Prosthesis success rates for the research strata were calculated 
for an observation time of up to 36 months following prosthesis placement.
RESULTS: Success rates for the maxillary edentulous stratum ranged from 94.6% 
for the bar-retained overdenture supported by five to six fixtures to 81.8% for 
the cap-retained overdenture. The mandibular edentulous strata produced success 
rates of 98.1% for the fixed hybrid prosthesis to 91.7% for the cap-retained 
prosthesis. Success rates for maxillary and mandibular posterior fixed partial 
dentures were 94.3% and 92.6%, respectively, while the maxillary anterior 
single-tooth prosthesis yielded a success rate of 98.1% for the 36-month 
observation period.
CONCLUSIONS: The recommended prosthesis designs investigated in this study 
proved to be reliable, with encouraging success rates for an observation period 
of 36 months following placement.

DOI: 10.1902/annals.2000.5.1.101
PMID: 11885168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Ann Periodontol. 2000 Dec;5(1):157-65. doi: 10.1902/annals.2000.5.1.157.

Implant survival in patients with type 2 diabetes: placement to 36 months.

Morris HF(1), Ochi S, Winkler S.

Author information:
(1)Dental Implant Clinical Research Group, VA Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Because the life expectancy of individuals continues to increase, 
dentists providing dental implant treatment can expect to see an increasing 
number of patients with diabetes mellitus. Today, there are little data 
available concerning the clinical outcomes involving the use of implant 
treatment for patients with diabetes mellitus. There are three types of diabetes 
mellitus: Type 1 (insulin dependent), Type 2 (non-insulin dependent), and 
gestational. Because of possible complications from patients with diabetes 
mellitus, they are excluded from participation in most clinical studies of 
endosseous dental implant survival.
METHODS: This study attempted to determine if Type 2 diabetes represents a 
significant risk factor to the long-term clinical performance of dental 
implants, using the comprehensive DICRG database. Diabetes was a possible 
exclusion criterion; however, the final decision on Type 2 patients was left to 
the dental implant team at the research center. A total of 2,887 implants (663 
patients) were surgically placed, restored, and followed for a period of 36 
months. Of these, 2,632 (91%) implants were placed in non-diabetic patients and 
255 (8.8%) in Type 2 patients. Failures (survival) were compared using 
descriptive data. Possible clustering was also studied.
RESULTS: A model assuming independence showed that implants in Type 2 patients 
have significantly more failures (P = 0.020). However, if correlations among 
implants within the patient are considered, the significance level becomes 
marginal (P = 0.046). The experience of the surgeon did not produce a clinically 
significant improvement in implant survival. The use of chlorhexidine rinses 
following implant placement resulted in a slight improvement (2.5%) in survival 
in non-Type 2 patients and a greater improvement in Type 2 patients (9.1%); the 
use of preoperative antibiotics improved survival by 4.5% in non-Type 2 patients 
and 10.5% in Type 2 patients. The use of HA-coated implants improved survival by 
13.2% in Type 2 diabetics.
CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetic patients tend to have more failures than 
non-diabetic patients; however, the influence was marginally significant. These 
findings need to be confirmed by other scientific clinical studies with a larger 
Type 2 diabetic sample size.

DOI: 10.1902/annals.2000.5.1.157
PMID: 11885176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. JAMA. 2002 Mar 13;287(10):1308-20. doi: 10.1001/jama.287.10.1308.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a systematic review.

Maron BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, 920 E 28th St, Suite 60, Minneapolis, 
MN 55407, USA. hcm.maron@mhif.org

CONTEXT: Throughout the past 40 years, a vast and sometimes contradictory 
literature has accumulated regarding hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), a 
genetic cardiac disease caused by a variety of mutations in genes encoding 
sarcomeric proteins and characterized by a broad and expanding clinical 
spectrum.
OBJECTIVES: To clarify and summarize the relevant clinical issues and to profile 
rapidly evolving concepts regarding HCM.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic analysis of the relevant HCM literature, accessed 
through MEDLINE (1966-2000), bibliographies, and interactions with 
investigators.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Diverse information was assimilated into a 
rigorous and objective contemporary description of HCM, affording greatest 
weight to prospective, controlled, and evidence-based studies.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a relatively common genetic 
cardiac disease (1:500 in the general population) that is heterogeneous with 
respect to disease-causing mutations, presentation, prognosis, and treatment 
strategies. Visibility attached to HCM relates largely to its recognition as the 
most common cause of sudden death in the young (including competitive athletes). 
Clinical diagnosis is by 2-dimensional echocardiographic identification of 
otherwise unexplained left ventricular wall thickening in the presence of a 
nondilated cavity. Overall, HCM confers an annual mortality rate of about 1% and 
in most patients is compatible with little or no disability and normal life 
expectancy. Subsets with higher mortality or morbidity are linked to the 
complications of sudden death, progressive heart failure, and atrial 
fibrillation with embolic stroke. Treatment strategies depend on appropriate 
patient selection, including drug treatment for exertional dyspnea 
(beta-blockers, verapamil, disopyramide) and the septal myotomy-myectomy 
operation, which is the standard of care for severe refractory symptoms 
associated with marked outflow obstruction; alcohol septal ablation and pacing 
are alternatives to surgery for selected patients. High-risk patients may be 
treated effectively for sudden death prevention with the implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator.
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial understanding has evolved regarding the epidemiology 
and clinical course of HCM, as well as novel treatment strategies that may alter 
its natural history. An appreciation that HCM, although an important cause of 
death and disability at all ages, does not invariably convey ominous prognosis 
and is compatible with normal longevity should dictate a large measure of 
reassurance for many patients.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.287.10.1308
PMID: 11886323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2002 Apr;43(2):207-8.

Abdominal and thoracic aortic aneurysms. How should we treat them?

Bell PR.

Comment on
    J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2000 Dec;41(6):869-70.

PMID: 11887057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2002 Mar;60(3):277-84; discussion 285-6. doi: 
10.1053/joms.2002.30576.

A prospective 1-year clinical and radiographic study of implants placed after 
maxillary sinus floor augmentation with bovine hydroxyapatite and autogenous 
bone.

Hallman M(1), Hedin M, Sennerby L, Lundgren S.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Public Health Service, Gävle City, 
Sweden. mats.hallman@lg.se

PURPOSE: The purposes of this study were 1) to evaluate the survival rate of 
implants placed in maxillary sinuses augmented with bovine hydroxyapatite and 
autogenous bone 6 months before implant surgery and 2) to estimate dimensional 
changes of the bone graft with time using a new radiographic method.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty maxillary sinuses in 20 consecutive patients with 
severe resorption (mean, 3.8 mm of remaining alveolar bone) were augmented with 
a mixture of 80% bovine hydroxyapatite and 20% autogenous bone mixed with fibrin 
glue to enable the placement of screw-shaped dental implants. After 6 months of 
primary healing, 108 implants were placed and followed with clinical and 
radiographic examinations during the first year of loading. Measurements of 
changes in height, width, and length of the grafted material were made on 
tomographic Scanora (Soredex Orion Corporation Ltd, Helsinki, Finland) and 
panoramic radiographs taken 3 and 12 months after grafting and after 1 year of 
bridge loading.
RESULTS: Ten implants in 6 patients were lost during the study (9 before loading 
and 1 after 1 year of functional loading), for a survival rate of 90.7%. All 
patients received fixed restorations, and the bridge survival rate was 100% 
after 1 year of loading. Small (<10%) but statistically significant dimensional 
changes in the grafted material were seen during the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: Acceptable short-term results can be obtained with implants placed 
after the use of bovine hydroxyapatite and autogenous bone for maxillary sinus 
floor augmentation. These grafts show good resistance to resorption.

Copyright 2002 American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons

DOI: 10.1053/joms.2002.30576
PMID: 11887139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2001 Oct-Dec;64(4):309-13.

Treatment of malignant biliary stenosis: which stent to use?

Van Steenbergen W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hepatobiliary and Endoscopy Unit, University 
Hospital Gasthuisberg, Catholic University Leuven, Herestraat 49, B-3000 Leuven, 
Belgium.

The insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis has become standard therapy in the 
palliative treatment of a malignant biliary stenosis. For plastic stents, stent 
occlusion results from clogging caused by the adherence of proteins, bacteria, 
and sludge to the inner stent wall, resulting in a median stent patency of about 
4 to 5 months. No major gain in stent patency can be obtained by the omission of 
side holes, nor by changes in stent material. Putting the stent inside the bile 
duct, in a suprapapillary position, does not lead to a longer stent patency. The 
prophylactic administration of antibiotic agents such as ciprofloxacin or 
norfloxacin, that are active against the gram-negative enterobacteriaceae 
leading to stent clogging, could have potential advantages but still needs 
further study. The insertion of a straight 10 French gauge polyethylene 
Amsterdam-type of prosthesis in a normal transpapillary position, and without 
the administration of any prophylactic antibiotic treatment, can still be 
regarded as state-of-the-art therapy with a plastic stent. This mainly holds 
true for those patients with a low life expectancy of only a few months, such as 
it is often the case in patients in a poor clinical condition, with liver 
metastasis, or with a large primary tumor. Patients with a longer life 
expectancy can be treated with a self-expandable metallic stent. At present, 
there is no major indication that coated metallic stents will perform any better 
than the uncoated ones.

PMID: 11887633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2001;3(4):176-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00139.x.

Fixed mandibular restorations on three early-loaded regular platform Brånemark 
implants.

De Bruyn H(1), Kisch J, Collaert B, Lindén U, Nilner K, Dvärsäter L.

Author information:
(1)Centre Periodontology and Implantology, Brussels, Belgium. 
hugo.debruyn@glo.be

BACKGROUND: Originally, the Brånemark System was used as a two-stage surgical 
procedure. Comparable clinical results have made one-stage and early-loading 
concepts possible alternatives in the edentulous mandible. From the patient's 
point of view, the financial aspect of implant treatment is important. In an 
attempt to decrease financial burden, the reduction of surgical interventions 
and reduction of the number of implants could be considered.
PURPOSE: This prospective multicenter study evaluated (1) the 1- and 3-year 
success rates of implants loaded within 1 month after one-stage surgery with a 
fixed 10- to 12-unit bridge on three regular platform Brånemark System implants 
in the mandible, (2) the outcome of the prosthetic treatment, and (3) the 
opinion of patients regarding the treatment procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Of 20 patients, 19 received five implants in the 
mandible, of which three were functionally loaded with the one-stage technique 
(group 1). The loaded implants were inserted in a tripodal position, one implant 
in the symphysis and two located anterior of the mental foramen in the bicuspid 
area. Two additional implants were inserted for safety reasons but were not 
intended to be included in the restoration. These two additional implants served 
as either an unloaded one-stage control implant (group 2) or an unloaded control 
implant installed with the submerged technique (group 3). Immediately after 
surgery, the implants were loaded with a relined denture. The patients received 
a 10- to 12-unit prosthetic reconstruction an average 31 days (range, 4-53 d) 
after surgery. Implant stability was clinically checked at 3, 12, and 36 months. 
Radiographs were taken at corresponding follow-up visits to calculate 
bone-to-implant level and marginal bone resorption.
RESULTS: Six of 60 functionally loaded implants (10%) and 3 of 20 prostheses 
(15%) failed within the first year. The cumulative implant failure rate in group 
1, both after 1 and after 3 years, was 9.5%. No implant failure occurred in the 
control groups 2 and 3. The average marginal bone level measured at 1 and 3 
years was 1.6 mm (SD = 0.8 mm) and 2.1 mm (SD = 0.2 mm), respectively, for group 
1; 1.5 mm (SD = 1.3 mm) and 2.4 mm (SD = 0.6 mm), respectively, for group 2; 0.8 
mm (SD = 1.4 mm) and 0.7 mm (SD = 0.9 mm), respectively, for group 3.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of treatment using three regular platform Brånemark 
System implants supporting a fixed mandibular arch reconstruction were less 
favorable than the outcome that can be expected with a standard four- to 
six-implant with one-stage surgery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2001.tb00139.x
PMID: 11887654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Lakartidningen. 2002 Feb 14;99(7):646-50.

[Cost-effectiveness of bisoprolol in chronic heart failure].

[Article in Swedish]

Ekman M(1), Zethraeus N, Dahlström U, Höglund C.

Author information:
(1)Centrum för hälsoekonomi, Handelshögskolan i Stockholm. mattias.ekman@hhs.se

The cost-effectiveness of adding the beta blocker bisoprolol to standard 
treatment in patients with congestive heart failure was investigated, based on 
data from the Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study II (CIBIS II). The medical 
resource consumption from CIBIS II was combined with Swedish cost data for 
medication and hospitalisations. Costs of added years of life, i.e. consumption 
net of production, were also included in the analysis. The health effects were 
measured in terms of gained years of life. The results of the analysis show that 
the cost-effectiveness of bisoprolol compares favourably with that of other 
cardiovascular treatments. Without the inclusion of costs of added years of 
life, the cost-effectiveness was in the range of SEK 3,351-13,096 per gained 
year of life, and with the costs of added years of life included, the 
cost-effectiveness was in the range of SEK 137,533-147,278 per gained year of 
life.

PMID: 11887711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Policy Anal Manage. 2002 Winter;21(1):1-19. doi: 10.1002/pam.1037.

The economic impacts of the tobacco settlement.

Cutler DM(1), Gruber J, Hartman RS, Landrum MB, Newhouse JP, Rosenthal MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Harvard University, USA.

Recent litigation against the major tobacco companies culminated in a master 
settlement agreement (MSA) under which the participating companies agreed to 
compensate most states for Medicaid expenses. Here the terms of the settlement 
are outlined and its economic implications analyzed using data from 
Massachusetts. The financial compensation to Massachusetts (and other states) 
under the MSA is substantial. However, this compensation is dwarfed by the value 
of the health impacts induced by the settlement. Specifically, Medicaid spending 
will fall, but only by a modest amount. More importantly, the value of health 
benefits ($65 billion through 2025 in 1999 dollars) from increased longevity is 
an order of magnitude greater than any other impacts or payments. The net 
efficiency implications of the settlement turn mainly on a comparison of the 
value of these health benefits relative to a valuation of the foregone pleasure 
of smoking. To the extent that the value of the health benefits is not offset by 
the value of the pleasure foregone, the economic impacts of the MSA will include 
a share of these health benefits.

DOI: 10.1002/pam.1037
PMID: 11887906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Paediatr Drugs. 2002;4(2):123-39. doi: 10.2165/00128072-200204020-00005.

Montelukast: a review of its therapeutic potential in asthma in children 2 to 14 
years of age.

Muijsers RB(1), Noble S.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi 
Bay, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Montelukast is a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist which is used as a 
preventive treatment for persistent asthma in patients > or =2 years of age. In 
children aged 6 to 14 years montelukast (5 mg/day) treatment resulted in a 
significant increase in FEV(1) (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, primary 
clinical outcome) during an 8-week randomized, double-blind trial. Moreover, 
significant improvements were observed for a range of secondary endpoints 
assessing symptoms, exacerbation rates, beta-agonist usage and quality of life. 
Concomitant administration of montelukast (5 mg/day) and inhaled budesonide (200 
microg twice daily) resulted in a trend towards an increase in FEV(1) (p = 0.06, 
primary endpoint) and a statistically significant reduction in both as-needed 
beta(2)-agonist usage and the percentage of days with asthma exacerbations 
compared with budesonide plus placebo. No significant differences were observed 
in asthma-related quality of life between the two groups. During clinical trials 
both improvements in lung function and reductions in as-needed beta(2)-agonist 
usage were generally observed within 1 day after initiation of therapy in 
children 2 to 14 years of age with persistent asthma. Data from a randomized, 
nonblind trial in 6- to 11-year-old children and a 6-month extension to this 
trial suggest that both compliance to therapy and patient satisfaction are 
greater for montelukast than for either inhaled sodium cromoglycate or inhaled 
beclomethasone. In addition, patients and parents preferred oral montelukast 
over sodium cromoglycate. In 2- to 5-year-old children with persistent asthma, 
montelukast (4 mg/day) treatment resulted in significant improvements in a range 
of outcomes, such as as-needed beta(2)-agonist usage, symptom scores and 
percentage of days with asthma symptoms, as assessed during a randomized, 
double-blind trial primarily designed to assess tolerability. Data from small 
randomized, double-blind trials suggest that montelukast reduces 
exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in 6- to 14-year-old children. Montelukast 
is generally well tolerated. The frequency of adverse events in 
montelukast-treated children of all ages was comparable to that in patients 
receiving placebo.
CONCLUSION: Oral montelukast has shown efficacy as a preventive treatment for 
asthma during clinical trials in children aged 2 to 14 years. The drug offers 
benefits over more standard therapies such as inhaled sodium cromoglycate and 
nedocromil in terms of compliance and convenience. In addition, the drug offers 
significant benefits when added to inhaled corticosteroids (according to 
secondary endpoints). Montelukast offers an effective, well tolerated and 
convenient treatment option for children with asthma.

DOI: 10.2165/00128072-200204020-00005
PMID: 11888359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Apr;10(2):98-101. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00110-7.

The economic evaluation of arterial intervention.

Taylor PR(1), Gerrard DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Guy's and St. Thomas' Trust, Lambeth Palace Road, 
London, SE1 7EH, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00110-7
PMID: 11888736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nat Neurosci. 2002 Apr;5(4):301-7. doi: 10.1038/nn823.

Mutant SOD1 causes motor neuron disease independent of copper chaperone-mediated 
copper loading.

Subramaniam JR(1), Lyons WE, Liu J, Bartnikas TB, Rothstein J, Price DL, 
Cleveland DW, Gitlin JD, Wong PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 558 
Ross Research Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Neurosci. 2002 Apr;5(4):287-8.
    Nat Neurosci. 2002 Oct;5(10):919; author reply 919-20.

Copper-mediated oxidative damage is proposed to play a critical role in the 
pathogenesis of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1)-linked familial amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (FALS). We tested this hypothesis by ablating the gene 
encoding the copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS) in a series of FALS-linked SOD1 
mutant mice. Metabolic 64Cu labeling in SOD1-mutant mice lacking the CCS showed 
that the incorporation of copper into mutant SOD1 was significantly diminished 
in the absence of CCS. Motor neurons in CCS-/- mice showed increased rate of 
death after facial nerve axotomy, a response documented for SOD1-/- mice. Thus, 
CCS is necessary for the efficient incorporation of copper into SOD1 in motor 
neurons. Although the absence of CCS led to a significant reduction in the 
amount of copper-loaded mutant SOD1, however, it did not modify the onset and 
progression of motor neuron disease in SOD1-mutant mice. Hence, CCS-dependent 
copper loading of mutant SOD1 plays no role in the pathogenesis of motor neuron 
disease in these mouse models.

DOI: 10.1038/nn823
PMID: 11889469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Exp Brain Res. 2002 Apr;143(3):276-85. doi: 10.1007/s00221-001-0994-4. Epub
2002  Feb 5.

Comparison of brain activity during different types of proprioceptive inputs: a 
positron emission tomography study.

Radovanovic S(1), Korotkov A, Ljubisavljevic M, Lyskov E, Thunberg J, Kataeva G, 
Danko S, Roudas M, Pakhomov S, Medvedev S, Johansson H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Musculoskeletal Research, National Institute for Working Life, 
Umeå, Sweden.

It has been shown that the primary and secondary somatosensory cortex, as well 
as the supplementary motor area (SMA), are involved in central processing of 
proprioceptive signals during passive and active arm movements. However, it is 
not clear whether different cortical areas are involved in processing of 
different proprioceptive inputs (skin, joint, muscle receptors), what their 
relative contributions might be, where kinesthetic sensations are formed within 
the CNS, and how they interact when the full peripheral proprioceptive machinery 
acts. In this study we investigated the representation of the brain structures 
involved in the perception of passive limb movement and illusory movement 
generated by muscle tendon vibration. Changes in cortical activity as indicated 
by changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were measured using positron 
emission tomography (PET). Twelve subjects were studied under four conditions: 
(1) passive flexion-extension movement (PM) of the left forearm; (2) induced 
illusions of movements (VI) similar to the real PM, induced by alternating 
vibration of biceps and triceps tendons (70-80 Hz) at the elbow; (3) alternating 
vibration of biceps and triceps tendons (with 20-50 Hz) without induced 
kinesthetic illusions (VN); and (4) rest condition (RE). The results show 
different patterns of cortex activation. In general, the activation during 
passive movement was higher in comparison with both kinds of vibration, and 
activation during vibrations with induced illusions of movement was more 
prominent than during vibrations without induced illusions. When the PM 
condition was contrasted with the other conditions we found the following areas 
of activation -- the primary motor (MI) and somatosensory area (SI), the SMA and 
the supplementary somatosensory area (SSA). In conditions where passive 
movements and illusory movements were contrasted with rest, some temporal areas, 
namely primary and associative auditory cortex, were activated, as well as 
secondary somatosensory cortex (SII). Our data show that different 
proprioceptive inputs, which induce sensation of movement, are associated with 
differently located activation patterns in the SI/MI and SMA areas of the 
cortex. In general, the comparison of activation intensities under different 
functional conditions indicates the involvement of SII in stimulus perception 
generation and of the SI/MI and SMA areas in the processing of proprioceptive 
input. Activation of the primary and secondary auditory cortex might reflect the 
interaction between somatosensory and auditory systems in movement sense 
generation. SSA might also be involved in movement sense generation and/or 
maintenance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-001-0994-4
PMID: 11889505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nurse Pract Forum. 2001 Dec;12(4):199-213.

Complications of HIV: lipodystrophy, anemia, renal, cardiovascular, and bone 
diseases.

Balt CA(1), Nixon H.

Author information:
(1)Indiana University, Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, 
Wishard Memorial Hospital Infectious Disease Clinic, 1001 W. 10th St., Suite 
OPW430, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.

Diagnosis of a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has long been 
associated with a short life expectancy, with care centered on the treatment and 
prevention of opportunistic infections and symptom management. As progress has 
been made through better understanding of the virus, and improved medications 
and treatments, persons with HIV are living longer, more productive lives. In 
addition to the scientific breakthroughs in treating the HIV-infected patient, 
more is also being learned about the long-term effects of the treatments and the 
virus, such as lipodystrophy syndrome. Comorbid diseases are also becoming more 
common in patients with HIV, such as anemia, bone disease, renal disease, and 
cardiac disease, which may be the result of metabolic complications or HIV 
itself. There is a vast array of comorbid diseases and adverse effects of 
medications in persons with HIV disease; and information regarding these issues 
is constantly changing as research continues to show more about their 
pathophysiology and treatment options. The most common comorbid disorders will 
be explored. A detailed explanation of the lipodystrophy syndrome and its common 
metabolic manifestations will be presented, including current research. In 
addition, the etiology, clinical findings, diagnosis, and treatment of the most 
common comorbid diseases associated with anemia and the bone, renal, and 
cardiovascular systems will be presented as they relate to the HIV-infected 
patient. All of the descriptions are designed for the primary care provider, who 
may be in contact with an HIV-infected patient whose differential diagnoses 
consist of one or more of these disorders.

PMID: 11889688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nurse Pract Forum. 2001 Dec;12(4):223-32.

Promoting healthy behaviors in HIV primary care.

Kirton CA(1).

Author information:
(1)New York University, New York, NY, USA.

Recent treatment advances have prolonged the life expectancy of persons with 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). HIV care providers must now promote healthy 
behaviors, such as smoking cessation, exercise, and screening for general 
medical problems, such as diabetes and hyperlipidemia. This report describes 
recently published evidence and recommendations for providing HIV primary care.

PMID: 11889690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Cleve Clin J Med. 2002 Mar;69(3):224-6, 229-30, 232-3 passim. doi: 
10.3949/ccjm.69.3.224.

Hereditary hemochromatosis: a common, often unrecognized, genetic disease.

McCarthy GM(1), Crowe J, McCarthy CJ, Eustace S, Kenny D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University College and Mater Misericordiae Hospital, 
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin. gmccarthy@rcsi.ie

Erratum in
    Cleve Clin J Med 2002 Apr;69(4):273.
    Cleve Clin J Med 2002 Jul;69(7):553.

Comment in
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2002 Mar;69(3):239-40, 242.

Hereditary hemochromatosis in people of northern European descent is more common 
than many physicians realize. It causes excessive gastrointestinal absorption of 
iron, leading to potentially fatal iron deposition in multiple organs. Early 
diagnosis and phlebotomy to reduce iron stores can prevent complications and 
provide normal life expectancy. Genetic testing of relatives of patients with 
hemochromatosis is warranted in some circumstances.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.69.3.224
PMID: 11890212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2001 Oct;49(10):1366-70. doi: 
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49268.x.

Health care for older persons: a country profile--Lebanon.

Abyad A(1).

Author information:
(1)Abyad Medical Center and Ain WaZein Comprehensive Health Care Program for the 
Elderly, Tripoli, Lebanon.

Lebanon is a small country, comparable in size to New Hampshire. It is currently 
estimated that 8% of the population is age 65 and older. The Lebanese population 
has witnessed a clear demographic transition in the past few decades. Our 
culture demands respect for older people and values highly the natural bonds of 
affection between all members of the family. The healthcare system in the 
country is an adaptation of the European model. Despite the large number of 
physicians (approximately 10,000) there is a shortage of primary care and 
geriatric physicians. There are 36 nursing homes in Lebanon, with a total of 
6,000 beds, but most of them are understaffed, with the exception of three 
nursing homes that offer relatively comprehensive services including 
rehabilitative, preventive, and curative services. The Ain Wizen Elderly Care 
Centre is well recognized for the program it operates for older people, which is 
a good model for the region and for Lebanon in terms of services, training, and 
research. Demographic changes and social and economic developments in Lebanon 
have created new realities in the unprecedented growth of the older population. 
Lebanon, like other developing countries, needs to define the policies and 
programs that will reduce the burden of an aging population on its society and 
economy. There is a need to ensure the availability of health and social 
services for older persons and to promote older persons' continuing 
participation in a socially and economically productive life.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.49268.x
PMID: 11890498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Int J Impot Res. 2001 Oct;13(5):261-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900714.

Assessment of the efficacy and safety of Viagra (sildenafil citrate) in men with 
erectile dysfunction during long-term treatment.

Steers W(1), Guay AT, Leriche A, Gingell C, Hargreave TB, Wright PJ, Price DE, 
Feldman RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Virginia Hospital West, Charlottesville 
22908, USA.

Long-term efficacy and safety of sildenafil was assessed in 1008 patients with 
erectile dysfunction (ED) enrolled in four flexible-dose (25 - 100 mg), 
open-label, 36- or 52-week extension studies. After 36 and 52 weeks, 92% and 89% 
of patients felt that treatment with sildenafil had improved their erections. 
Responses to a Sexual Function Questionnaire indicated that 52 weeks of 
sildenafil treatment resulted in clinically significant improvements in the 
duration and firmness of erections, overall satisfaction with sex life, and the 
frequency of stimulated erections. Commonly reported adverse events (AEs) were 
headache, flushing, dyspepsia, and rhinitis, which were generally mild to 
moderate. Reports of abnormal vision were consistent with previous clinical 
trials. The occurrence of treatment-related cardiovascular AEs, such as 
hypertension, tachycardia, and palpitation, was <1%. Discontinuations due to 
treatment-related AEs were low (2%). Long-term therapy does not diminish the 
efficacy of sildenafil in patients with ED and remains well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900714
PMID: 11890512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2001 Nov;49(11):1555-60. doi: 
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.4911253.x.

Popular views of old age in America, 1900-1950.

Hirshbein LD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Hospitals, Ann Arbor 48109, USA.

The aging of the American population has significantly changed medical practice 
over the last century. As is well known, life expectancy first began to increase 
dramatically in the late 19th century, but at the same time that the numbers of 
older people have been increasing, the social and cultural meanings of growing 
old have also changed. It is likely that different cohorts of older people have 
had different experiences with old age because of the time periods they lived 
through. This paper offers one way to look at some of the historical changes 
that have affected the public and the medical profession on the subject of old 
age by looking at old age through American popular literature in the first half 
of the 20th century in three overlapping time periods. In the first three 
decades of the century, the concept of old age was widely defined, and older 
people (rather than physicians) were the principal authorities in describing the 
qualities of old age. In the third and fourth decades of the century, the idea 
of old age was starting to acquire increasing negative connotations, but 
chronological age itself did not signal the beginning of old age. However, by 
the late 1930s and 1940s, old age became widely viewed as a specific social and 
medical problem to be addressed by professionals, and older people had become a 
recognizable population, with a variety of groups organized around their care. 
This paper illustrates changes in American understandings of old age within and 
without the medical profession and suggests ways in which popular conceptions of 
old age might continue to shift and affect how physicians take care of their 
older patients in the future.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.4911253.x
PMID: 11890599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2002 Feb;133(1):45-54. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-4608(01)00572-6.

The origin of transformed cells. studies of spontaneous and induced cell 
transformation in cell cultures from marsupials, a snail, and human amniocytes.

Walen KH(1).

Author information:
(1)Viral and Rickettsial Disease Laboratory, California Department of Health 
Services, 850 Marina Bay Parkway, Richmond, CA 94804, USA.

Transformation of cells in culture is a model system for carcinogenesis, and two 
major theories (i.e., mutagenesis and aneuploidy) have emerged from in vitro and 
in vivo studies. A third view is presented here on the initial steps in the 
change of primary cells to extended life cells, and their change to immortalized 
cells. Both changes involve identical, microscopically visible cell 
abnormalities hitherto dismissed as cell degenerative characteristics. The major 
cell changes (i.e., giant cells, nuclear fragmentation to form multinucleated 
cells [MNC]) translated into genetic terms begin with the creation of polyploidy 
by DNA endoreduplication, followed by amitotic division of these giant cells to 
produce MNC. Individual nuclei, surrounded by a cell membrane, bud from the 
surface of the MNC, and represent the origin of the transformed cells. Induced 
budding by a protease treatment of MNC suggests that the extracellular matrix is 
an inhibitor of the budding process from human MNC. The production of the MNC is 
a genetic process determined by two abnormal events (i.e., overproduction of DNA 
and amitotic chromosomal segregation) during which there are possibilities for 
different genetic mechanisms to produce inherited variability within and between 
MNC. These concepts are discussed in regard to carcinogenesis, and by extension 
its possible prevention by use of the special cytopathic cell changes in 
carcinogen testing and in clinical screening programs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-4608(01)00572-6
PMID: 11890989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Pediatr Nurs. 2002 Feb;17(1):18-27. doi: 10.1053/jpdn.2002.30930.

A natural history study of adolescents and young adults with sickle cell disease 
as they transfer to adult care: a need for case management services.

Wojciechowski EA(1), Hurtig A, Dorn L.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Education Program, Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, 345 East 
Superior, Rm. 162, Chicago, IL 60601, USA.

Life expectancy for adolescents with SCD now extends well into adulthood. As a 
result, adolescents transfer to adult care. Little empirical evidence exists to 
show how transfer occurs and how well the current practices now work. The aim of 
