this study was to obtain a database on the experience of adolescents/young 
adults with SCD that transfer to adult care. We assessed their treatment 
compliance, independence, and whether they receive uninterrupted care. Data were 
obtained through patient and provider interviews and patient record reviews. 
Results indicate patients leave pediatric care without adequate transfer 
preparation and readiness to transfer is not the major consideration in the 
decision to transfer, follow-up often ceases once the patients leave pediatric 
care, and patients who maintain follow-up appointments are more efficient in 
managing their illness (self-efficacy). The model for a structured transitioning 
process is provided with recommendations for nurse case managers to maintain 
follow-up.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1053/jpdn.2002.30930
PMID: 11891491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Am J Hum Biol. 2002 Mar-Apr;14(2):149-67. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.10043.

An evolutionary ecological perspective on demographic transitions: modeling 
multiple currencies.

Low BS(1), Simon CP, Anderson KG.

Author information:
(1)School of Natural Resources and Environment Population Studies Center, The 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Life history theory postulates tradeoffs of current versus future reproduction; 
today women face evolutionarily novel versions of these tradeoffs. Optimal age 
at first birth is the result of tradeoffs in fertility and mortality; ceteris 
paribus, early reproduction is advantageous. Yet modern women in developed 
nations experience relatively late first births; they appear to be trading off 
socioeconomic status and the paths to raised SES, education and work, against 
early fertility. Here, [1] using delineating parameter values drawn from data in 
the literature, we model these tradeoffs to determine how much socioeconomic 
advantage will compensate for delayed first births and lower lifetime fertility; 
and [2] we examine the effects of work and education on women's lifetime and 
age-specific fertility using data from seven cohorts in the Panel Study of 
Income Dynamics (PSID).

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.10043
PMID: 11891931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Am J Hum Biol. 2002 Mar-Apr;14(2):184-205. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.10038.

Antiquity of postreproductive life: are there modern impacts on hunter-gatherer 
postreproductive life spans?

Blurton Jones NG(1), Hawkes K, O'Connell JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, and Graduate School of Education, University of 
California, Los Angeles, California 90095-1553, USA.

Female postreproductive life is a striking feature of human life history and 
there have been several recent attempts to account for its evolution. But 
archaeologists estimate that in the past, few individuals lived many 
postreproductive years. Is postreproductive life a phenotypic outcome of modern 
conditions, needing no evolutionary account? This article assesses effects of 
the modern world on hunter-gatherer adult mortality, with special reference to 
the Hadza. Evidence suggests that such effects are not sufficient to deny the 
existence of substantial life expectancy at the end of the childbearing career. 
Data from contemporary hunter-gatherers (Ache, !Kung, Hadza) match longevity 
extrapolated from regressions of lifespan on body and brain weight. Twenty or so 
vigorous years between the end of reproduction and the onset of significant 
senescence does require an explanation.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.10038
PMID: 11891933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Adv Otorhinolaryngol. 2000;57:377-81. doi: 10.1159/000059216.

Economic evaluation of cochlear implantation.

Wong BY(1), Hui Y, Au D, Wei W.

Author information:
(1)Division of Otolaryngology, Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong 
Medical Centre, Hong Kong Society for the Deaf, Wanchai, Hong Kong. 
ykwbuddy@netvigator.com

DOI: 10.1159/000059216
PMID: 11892194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Hawaii Med J. 2002 Feb;61(2):32, 37.

The role of geriatrics and gero-psychiatry in medical education.

Roberson E, Williams S, Wong B.

PMID: 11892382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Drugs. 2002;62(4):633-53. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200262040-00009.

Alfuzosin: a review of the therapeutic use of the prolonged-release formulation 
given once daily in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

McKeage K(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Alfuzosin, a quinazoline derivative, is a selective and competitive 
alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist. It distributes preferentially in the prostate, 
compared with plasma, and decreases the sympathetically controlled tone of 
prostatic smooth muscle. As a result lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of 
benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) are improved. The once-daily formulation of 
alfuzosin contains inactive barrier layers which have been added to the planar 
surfaces of compressed tablets. Drug release is sustained over 20 hours with a 
near constant dissolution rate between 2 and 12 hours. Mean values for area 
under the plasma concentration-time curve over 24 hours (AUC(24)) were similar 
after administration of prolonged-release alfuzosin 10mg once daily and 
immediate-release alfuzosin 2.5mg three times daily. Likewise, similar AUC(24) 
values were reported when prolonged-release alfuzosin 10mg once daily and 
sustained-release alfuzosin 5mg twice daily were compared. These data suggest 
that these alfuzosin regimens provide similar average systemic exposure. Data 
from short- (3 months) and long-term (up to 12 months) clinical trials show that 
the prolonged-release formulation of alfuzosin controls the symptoms associated 
with BPH as effectively as immediate-release alfuzosin 2.5mg three times daily 
and clinical improvement is maintained for up to 1 year. Improvements in 
International Prostate Symptom Score, maximum urinary flow rate and 
quality-of-life index were improved to a similar extent in patients treated with 
immediate- or prolonged-release alfuzosin and improvements were statistically 
significant compared with placebo. Prolonged-release alfuzosin 10mg is well 
tolerated and the overall incidence of adverse events is similar to that seen 
with placebo. The once-daily formulation of alfuzosin 10mg caused fewer 
vasodilatory adverse events than immediate-release alfuzosin 2.5mg three times 
daily and caused only slight decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure 
which were not clinically significant and did not differ significantly from 
those with placebo. No dosage titration is required. The incidence of 
ejaculatory disorders was <1%.
CONCLUSION: Prolonged-release alfuzosin 10mg once daily controls symptoms 
associated with BPH throughout a 24-hour dosage interval as effectively as 
immediate-release alfuzosin 2.5mg three times daily but with fewer vasodilatory 
adverse events. A nonblind extension study showed that clinical benefits were 
maintained for up to 1 year and the once-daily 10mg formulation continued to be 
well tolerated, particularly in terms of cardiovascular effects and sexual 
function. Thus, for the medical management of men with BPH, prolonged-release 
alfuzosin 10mg is an effective, well tolerated and convenient treatment option.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200262040-00009
PMID: 11893233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. J Biol Chem. 2002 May 24;277(21):18535-44. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M200671200. Epub
 2002 Mar 13.

Structural identification of 2'- and 3'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose as novel metabolites 
derived from the Sir2 family of beta -NAD+-dependent histone/protein 
deacetylases.

Jackson MD(1), Denu JM.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, Portland, Oregopn 97201-3098, USA.

The Sir2 (silent information regulator 2) family of histone/protein deacetylases 
has been implicated in a wide range of biological activities, including gene 
silencing, life-span extension, and chromosomal stability. Their dependence on 
beta-NAD(+) for activity is unique among the known classes of histone/protein 
deacetylase. Sir2 enzymes have been shown to couple substrate deacetylation and 
beta-NAD(+) cleavage to the formation of O-acetyl-ADP-ribose, a newly described 
metabolite. To gain a better understanding of the catalytic mechanism and of the 
biological implications of producing this molecule, we have performed a detailed 
enzymatic and structural characterization of O-acetyl-ADP-ribose. Through the 
use of mass spectrometry, rapid quenching techniques, and NMR structural 
analyses, 2'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose and 3'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose were found to be the 
solution products produced by the Sir2 family of enzymes. Rapid quenching 
approaches under single-turnover conditions identified 2'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose as 
the enzymatic product, whereas 3'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose was formed by 
intramolecular transesterification after enzymatic release into bulk solvent, 
where 2'- and 3'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose exist in equilibrium (48:52). In addition 
to (1)H and (13)C chemical shift assignments for each regioisomer, heteronuclear 
multiple-bond correlation spectroscopy was used to assign unambiguously the 
position of the acetyl group. These findings are highly significant, because 
they differ from the previous conclusion, which suggested that 
1'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose was the solution product of the reaction. Possible 
mechanisms for the generation of 2'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose are discussed.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M200671200
PMID: 11893743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Cardiology. 2002;97(1):6-11. doi: 10.1159/000047412.

Outcome and cost-effectiveness of cardiopulmonary resuscitation after 
in-hospital cardiac arrest in octogenarians.

Paniagua D(1), Lopez-Jimenez F, LondoÃ±o JC, Mangione CM, Fleischmann K, Lamas 
GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Mount Sinai Medical Center and the University of 
Miami School of Medicine, Miami Beach, FL, USA.

CONTEXT: Octogenarians are the fastest growing segment of the population and 
little is known about the results of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) after 
in-hospital cardiac arrest in this population.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate the clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness 
of CPR after in-hospital cardiac arrest in octogenarians.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Years of life saved.
DESIGN: Effectiveness data were obtained from a review of 91,372 hospital 
discharges from January 1st, 1993 until June 30th, 1996. Cardiac arrest was 
reported in 956 patients. The study group consisted of 474 patients > or = 80 
years old. CPR costs included equipment and training, physician and nursing time 
and medications. Post-CPR expenses included in-hospital true cost, repeat 
hospitalizations, physician office visits, nursing home, rehabilitation, and 
chronic care hospital costs. Life expectancy of the patients who were still 
alive at the end of the study was estimated from census data. A utility of 0.8 
was used to calculate quality-adjusted-life years saved (QALYS). We used a 
societal perspective for analysis.
RESULTS: The study population was 86 +/- 4.8 years old (range 80-103), and 42% 
were male. Fifty-four patients (11%) were discharged alive, 35 to a chronic care 
facility and 19 to their home. Assuming that a cardiac arrest without CPR has 
100% mortality, 12 octogenarians required treatment with CPR in order to save 
one life to hospital discharge. Similarly, 29 octogenarian patients with cardiac 
arrest have to be treated with CPR to net one long-term survivor (mean survival 
21 months, with a range from 9 to 48 months). The cost-effectiveness ratio, 
after estimating the life expectancy of octogenarian survivors, was USD 50,412 
per year of life saved, and USD 63,015 per QALYS. However, a utility of 0.5 
yielded a cost of USD 100,825 per QALYS.
CONCLUSION: In comparison with other life-saving strategies, CPR in 
octogenarians is effective. The favorable cost-effectiveness ratio is highly 
dependent on the patients' preference for quality rather than quantity of life, 
as expressed by the utility assumptions.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000047412
PMID: 11893823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Aging Trends. 2001 Mar;(1):1-10. doi: 10.1037/e620692007-001.

Trends in causes of death among the elderly.

Sahyoun NR, Lentzner H, Hoyert D, Robinson KN.

DOI: 10.1037/e620692007-001
PMID: 11894224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. S Afr Med J. 2002 Feb;92(2):135-7.

World Health Organisation 'healthy life expectancy in 191 countries, 1999'--what 
of the future?

Walker AR, Wadee AA.

PMID: 11894648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Ecotoxicology. 2002 Feb;11(1):61-73. doi: 10.1023/a:1013797130740.

Effects of temperature and salinity on life history of the marine amphipod 
Gammarus locusta. Implications for ecotoxicological testing.

Neuparth T(1), Costa FO, Costa MH.

Author information:
(1)Dep. CiÃªncias e Engenharia do Ambiente, Instituto do Mar-IMAR, Fac. CiÃªncias 
e Tecnologia/Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Monte de Caparica, Portugal. 
mtsn@mail.fct.unl.pt

The life history of Gammarus locusta was analysed in the laboratory under the 
following temperature and salinity combinations: 20 degrees C-33/1000, 15 
degrees C-20/1000 and 15 degrees C-33/1000 (reference condition). Life history 
analysis comprised survival, individual growth, reproductive traits and life 
table parameters. Compared to 15 degrees C, life history at 20 degrees C was 
characterised by at least a four-week reduction in the life-span, lower life 
expectancy, shorter generation time, faster individual growth, anticipation of 
age at maturity and higher population growth rate. These temperature effects 
constituted an acceleration and condensation of the life cycle, compared to the 
reference condition. Concerning salinity effects, with few exceptions, results 
show that overall this amphipod life history did not differ significantly 
between the salinity conditions tested. Regarding ecotoxicological testing 
implications, findings from this study indicate that the range of temperature 
and salinity conditions acceptable for testing was substantially expanded both 
for acute and chronic assays. A temperature of 20 degrees C or higher (for a 
salinity of 33/1000) is suggested for routine chronic sediment toxicity testing 
with G. locusta, in order to reduce the life cycle and consequently improve 
cost-effectiveness and standardisation. Results also suggest that a 
multiple-response approach, including survival, growth and reproduction, should 
be applied in chronic toxicity tests.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013797130740
PMID: 11895015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2002 Feb;26(1):11-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00264.x.

Placing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander mortality in an international 
context.

Paradies Y(1), Cunningham J.

Author information:
(1)Cooperative Research Centre for Aboriginal and Tropical Health and Menzies, 
School of Health Research, Casuarina, Northern Territory. 
yin.paradies@menzies.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether the patterns of mortality observed among Indigenous 
Australians were seen in other countries or sub-populations. Previous reports 
have indicated that the life expectancy of Indigenous Australians compares 
unfavourably with that of Indigenous groups in other developed countries, and is 
similar to that in some developing countries. However, in contrast to many 
developing countries, low life expectancy of Indigenous Australians is the 
result of relatively high and early adult mortality, rather than high infant 
mortality.
METHODS: Using routinely available administrative data on age-specific mortality 
and estimated life expectancy at birth, we compared data for Indigenous 
Australians (from the Northern Territory, Western Australia and South Australia 
combined) with corresponding data for 200 countries world-wide, as well as for 
several population groups of interest, including African Americans, Native 
Americans, Canadian Natives and New Zealand Maori.
RESULTS: Patterns of mortality among Indigenous Australians were markedly 
different to those of most other populations with available data, with the 
exception of the Russian Republic. The age-specific mortality rates for Russian 
males in 1990-95 were almost identical to those of Indigenous males in 1995-97. 
The similarities among females were less pronounced, but stronger than for any 
other country.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The dramatic fall in Russian life expectancy has 
been studied extensively and several important social and contextual factors 
have been identified. These factors are also relevant for the Indigenous 
population, and this may help to explain the similar mortality patterns of the 
two groups.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00264.x
PMID: 11895018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Epidemiol Infect. 2002 Feb;128(1):83-92. doi: 10.1017/s0950268801006410.

Modelling death rates for carriers of hepatitis B.

Dickinson JA(1), Wun YT, Wong SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, 4/F School of Public Health, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, NT.

Hepatitis B carriers who acquired the infection perinatally die from 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and cirrhosis at high rates. Published cohort 
studies are largely limited to males and are too small to estimate the 
age-specific risk of death. We therefore used routinely collected Hong Kong data 
to estimate the risks. Deaths were partitioned between carriers and 
non-carriers, then current life table calculations determined life expectancy 
and probability of dying from HCC or cirrhosis. HCC is the dominant cause of 
death for male carriers in middle adulthood with a lifetime risk of 27% for HCC 
compared to 4% for females. Predicted life expectancy is 72 years for male 
carriers, compared to 79 years for non-carriers. Female carriers have a life 
expectancy of 81 years and non-carriers 83 years. This model probably applies to 
all southern Chinese populations and emigrants with similar life history, and 
other populations that acquired infection early in life.

DOI: 10.1017/s0950268801006410
PMCID: PMC2869799
PMID: 11895095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2002 Apr;92(4):1367-77. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00969.2001.

Hindlimb unloading rodent model: technical aspects.

Morey-Holton ER(1), Globus RK.

Collaborators: Morey-Holton ER(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 
94035-1000, USA. eholton@mail.arc.nasa.gov
(2)NASA ARC

Since its inception at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
Ames Research Center in the mid-1970s, many laboratories around the world have 
used the rat hindlimb unloading model to simulate weightlessness and to study 
various aspects of musculoskeletal loading. In this model, the hindlimbs of 
rodents are elevated to produce a 30 degrees head-down tilt, which results in a 
cephalad fluid shift and avoids weightbearing by the hindquarters. Although 
several reviews have described scientific results obtained with this model, this 
is the first review to focus on the technical aspects of hindlimb unloading. 
This review includes a history of the technique, a brief comparison with 
spaceflight data, technical details, extension of the model to mice, and other 
important technical considerations (e.g., housing, room temperature, unloading 
angle, the potential need for multiple control groups, age, body weight, the use 
of the forelimb tissues as internal controls, and when to remove animals from 
experiments). This paper is intended as a reference for researchers, reviewers 
of manuscripts, and institutional animal care and use committees. Over 800 
references, related to the hindlimb unloading model, can be accessed via the 
electronic version of this article.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00969.2001
PMID: 11895999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Apr;56(4):289-93. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.4.289.

Use of acute hospital beds does not increase as the population ages: results 
from a seven year cohort study in Germany.

Busse R(1), Krauth C, Schwartz FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Social Medicine and Health System Research, North 
German Centre for Public Health Research, Medizinische Hochschule Hanover, 
Hanover, Germany. rbusse@isciii.es

OBJECTIVES: (1) To compare the number of hospital days used by survivors with 
those by persons in their last, second last, and third last year of life in 
relation to age; (2) to analyse lifelong hospital utilisation in relation to 
life expectancy.
DESIGN: Cohort study using a 10% sample (stratified by age and sex) of persons 
insured by one sickness fund.
SETTING: Germany, 1989-1995.
SUBJECTS: 69,847 survivors (with a minimum of three more years to live), 1385 
persons in last, 1368 in second last, and 1333 in third last year of life.
RESULTS: The number of days spent in hospital in the last year of life was 
lowest for the young (24.2 days under age 25) and the old (23.2 days at age 85+) 
and was greatest at ages 55-64 (40.6 days). The ratio of days to survivors was 
highest at age 35-44 (31.0) and fell continuously thereafter to 4.3 at age 85+. 
Similar patterns were seen for hospital days in the second and third year before 
death, except that peaks were at 35-44 years (22.5 and 13.7 days respectively). 
Calculated lifelong number of hospital days increased with age from 54.8 (death 
at age 20) to 201.0 (age 90). Numbers of hospital days per year of life, 
averaged over the entire lifespan, were stable at 2.0-2.2 for deaths between age 
50 and 90 (and up to 2.7 at age 20).
CONCLUSIONS: Lifelong hospital utilisation for persons who die at 50 or later is 
directly proportional to the number of years lived. These data contradict 
results from cross sectional studies that suggest an exponential rise in health 
care costs as longevity increases. They have important implications for 
projections of future health care expenditure.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.4.289
PMCID: PMC1732121
PMID: 11896137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Public Health. 2002 Jan;116(1):39-44. doi: 10.1038/sj/ph/1900811.

Stomach cancer-related mortality rate is higher in young Japanese women than in 
men.

Sun J(1), Misumi J, Shimaoka A, Aoki K, Kono A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Hygiene, Oita Medical University, Oita, 
Japan.

This study compares stomach cancer-related mortality rates in Japan with those 
in European and Asian countries and analyzes trends in stomach cancer-related 
mortality rates according to gender in young Japanese over the period of 
1957-1997. From official death certification numbers and population estimates, 
we obtained stomach cancer-related mortality rate for all ages and various ages 
according to gender. Japan's ranking compared to other countries in death 
percentage of all cancers which are attributable to stomach cancer was fourth 
for both men and women. In Japan and Ireland, total elimination of deaths from 
stomach cancer in men resulted in increased life expectancy of 0.68 and 0.22 y 
respectively, whereas the corresponding figures for women were 0.42 and 0.14 y 
respectively. The sex ratios of stomach cancer-related mortality rates were 
0.75, 0.63, 0.80 and 0.94 for 25-29, 30-34, 35-39 and 40-44 y age groups, 
respectively, in 1997. The sex ratio of relative risk ranged from 0.62 to 0.92 
in 25-40 y age groups during the observation period. The life expectancy in 
30-34 y age group increased by 0.66 y for men and 0.41 y for women in 1995 after 
elimination of stomach cancer-related deaths. Our results suggest that stomach 
cancer-related mortality rates are still high in Japan and young women are at 
higher risk of stomach cancer-related death relative to young men and that sex 
ratio is stable or slightly decreased over the 40-y period. It is important to 
monitor this trend continuously in the next few years.

DOI: 10.1038/sj/ph/1900811
PMID: 11896635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Altern Med Rev. 2002 Feb;7(1):45-58.

Alternative therapies for type 2 diabetes.

Dey L(1), Attele AS, Yuan CS.

Author information:
(1)Tang Center for Herbal Medicine Research and Department of Anethesia & 
Critical Care, The Pritzker School of Medicine, The University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA.

Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease that has a significant impact on 
the health, quality of life, and life expectancy of patients, as well as on the 
health care system. Exercise, diet, and weight control continue to be essential 
and effective means of improving glucose homeostasis. However, lifestyle 
management measures may be insufficient or patient compliance difficult, 
rendering conventional drug therapies (i.e., oral glucose-lowering agents and 
insulin injection) necessary in many patients. In addition to adverse effects, 
drug treatments are not always satisfactory in maintaining euglycemia and 
avoiding late stage diabetic complications. As an alternative approach, 
medicinal herbs with antihyperglycemic activities are increasingly sought by 
diabetic patients and health care professionals. Commonly used herbs and other 
alternative therapies, less likely to have the side effects of conventional 
approaches for type 2 diabetes, are reviewed.

PMID: 11896745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. AWHONN Lifelines. 2000 Oct-Nov;4(5):19.

Are Americans aging well?

Cockey CD.

PMID: 11898155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Cancer Pract. 2000 Sep-Oct;8(5):238-42. doi:
10.1046/j.1523-5394.2000.85004.x.

Cancer survivor identity and quality of life.

Zebrack BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, Division of Cancer Prevention and 
Control Research, UCLA School of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095-1752, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to propose a framework for enhancing an 
understanding of quality of life among cancer survivors that takes into account 
individuals' subjective experiences and attributions of self as they relate to 
their own experience with cancer.
OVERVIEW: This review of a small yet burgeoning cancer survivorship literature 
posits that there is room to expand the theoretical context for understanding 
cancer and its impact on quality of life by assuming that the experience of 
cancer involves changes in social roles and identity. In turn, changes in the 
way cancer survivors see themselves in relation to the world, including the 
ability to carry out roles and responsibilities, may affect quality of life. 
This perspective suggests that a cancer diagnosis initiates a survival 
trajectory and a social role that extends over the remainder of one's life, 
regardless of life expectancy.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Expanding the understanding of quality of life and the 
factors that contribute to it should help subsequent investigations of who might 
benefit from which psychosocial support interventions provided when (i.e., 
during early diagnostic stage, treatment stage, or both or in the long term). 
Equipped with this understanding, clinicians and agencies providing services to 
cancer survivors and their families can develop appropriate supportive 
interventions that facilitate and enhance quality of life.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-5394.2000.85004.x
PMID: 11898236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2001 May;1(3):210-6. doi:
10.1007/s11910-001-0020-z.

Drug delivery to tumors of the central nervous system.

Lesniak MS(1), Langer R, Brem H.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurological Surgery and Oncology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Hunterian 817, 725 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Contemporary treatment of malignant brain tumors has been hampered by problems 
with drug delivery to the tumor bed. Inherent boundaries of the central nervous 
system, such as the blood-brain barrier or the blood-cerebrospinal fluid 
barrier, and a general lack of response to many chemotherapeutic agents have led 
to alternative treatment modalities. In general, all these modalities have 
sought to either disrupt or bypass the physiologic brain barriers and deliver 
the drug directly to the tumor. This article reviews past, as well as current, 
methods of drug delivery to tumors of the central nervous system. Special 
emphasis is placed on biodegradable polymers that can release chemotherapeutic 
agents against malignant gliomas. A variety of other nonchemotherapeutic drugs, 
including antiangiogenesis and immunotherapeutic agents, are presented in the 
context of new polymer technology. Finally, future directions in drug delivery 
are discussed with an overview on new advances in emerging biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-001-0020-z
PMID: 11898520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Life Sci Space Res. 1972;10:175-86.

Analysis of survival and cause of death statistics for mice under single and 
duration-of-life gamma irradiation.

Grahn D(1), Fry RJ, Lea RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological and Medical Research, Argonne National Laboratory, 
Argonne, Ill., USA.

The late effects of protracted exposure to low levels of external radiation 
continue to be a matter of operational concern in long-range space flight. 
Studies have been carried out on young adult mice exposed to daily levels of 
60Co gamma irradiation ranging from 0.3 to over 30 R day-1. The lowest level is 
comparable with the occupational maximum permissible dose for the atomic energy 
industry. There is little evidence of life shortening at that level, but as 
exposure increases, there is an exponential decline in life expectancy. The 
life-shortening coefficient is approximately 4 days/100 R accumulated or 4% R-1 
day-1. When life-shortening is < or = 15%, all of the increased mortality can be 
attributed to radiation-induced increases in death rates from neoplastic 
diseases, including various forms of leukemia and pulmonary tumors. Age-specific 
death rates for mice dying of all other causes remain the same as the controls 
throughout life, at the lowest doses. A non-neoplastic disease component of 
excess mortality rate emerges at 6 R day-1 and above. The risk of death from all 
and specific causes following single exposures compared with protracted lifetime 
irradiation shows a clear effect of protraction. Leukemia death rates are 
reduced by a factor of 5 or more at all daily exposure levels below 20-30 R 
day-1. Risks for other causes of death are also reduced, but to a variable 
degree.

PMID: 11898837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Am Fam Physician. 2002 Mar 1;65(5):853-60.

Recognition and management of hereditary hemochromatosis.

Brandhagen DJ(1), Fairbanks VF, Baldus W.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Medical School, Rochester, Minnesota, USA. brandhagen.david@mayo.edu

Hereditary hemochromatosis is the most common inherited single-gene disorder in 
people of northern European descent. It is characterized by increased intestinal 
absorption of iron, with deposition of the iron in multiple organs. Previously, 
the classic description was combined diabetes mellitus, cutaneous 
hyperpigmentation and cirrhosis. Increasingly, however, hereditary 
hemochromatosis is being diagnosed at an earlier, less symptomatic stage. The 
diagnosis is based on a combination of clinical, laboratory and pathologic 
findings, including elevated serum transferrin saturation. Life expectancy is 
usually normal if phlebotomy is initiated before the development of cirrhosis or 
diabetes mellitus. Hereditary hemochromatosis is associated with mutations in 
the HFE gene. Between 60 and 93 percent of patients with the disorder are 
homozygous for a mutation designated C282Y. The HFE gene test is useful in 
confirming the diagnosis of hereditary hemochromatosis, screening adult family 
members of patients with HFE mutations and resolving ambiguities concerning iron 
overload.

PMID: 11898957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2000 Nov-Dec;4(6):289, 293.

Denileukin diftitox.

Saxon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Centers of the Carolinas, Seneca, SC, USA.

Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs) encompass a wide variety of lymphomas 
that are characterized by the localization of the malignant lymphocytes to the 
skin at presentation. They are slow-growing and rare, occurring in fewer than 
1,000 people annually. Patients may go for months to years with skin 
abnormalities before being diagnosed. Mycosis fungoides and Sezary syndrome are 
the most common forms of CTCL and are considered to be indolent diseases. 
Patients with T1 disease have a normal life expectancy, whereas patients who 
undergo transformation to large cell lymphoma (8%-23% of patients) have a poor 
prognosis, with mean survival ranging from 2-19 months.

PMID: 11899329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2001 May-Jun;5(3):95-9.

Photodynamic therapy: another option in cancer treatment.

Bruce S(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke Health Center, 932 Morreene Road, Durham, NC 27705 USA. 
bruce001@mc.duke.edu

Photodynamic therapy (PDT)--also called phototherapy, photoradiation therapy, or 
photochemotherapy--is a relatively new treatment option being used to treat 
certain types of cancer, including endobronchial and esophageal cancers. PDT is 
a two-step process that involves administration of a photosensitizing agent 
followed by exposure to non thermal laser light. Intensive patient education and 
support are required during PDT. In the immediate post-procedure period, 
patients require intensive monitoring to ensure that a patient airway is 
maintained and pain is alleviated. Photosensitivity persist for four to six 
weeks post-PDT; to avoid photosensitivity reactions, patients must adhere to 
specific recommendations to avoid exposure to light. PDT is noted for extending 
the life expectancy and improving the quality of life of patients.

PMID: 11899376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2002 Jan;3(1):1-8.

[Coronary angioplasty in elderly patients].

[Article in Italian]

Liistro F(1), Colombo A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiologia Interventistica, EMO Centro Cuore Columbus e Ospedale San 
Raffaele, Milano.

Developed nations are experiencing an unprecedented growth in the number of 
elderly citizens. Thanks to the modernization of both society and medical care, 
over the past century, life expectancy in most countries has nearly doubled. The 
elderly (80 years or over) represent the fastest-growing segment of our 
population. Owing to their age, the elderly are more afflicted with chronic 
diseases, including coronary artery disease. Recently, clinicians became more 
aggressive in the use of invasive cardiovascular diagnostic tests in these 
patients. With regard to younger patients, we have a wealth of data from large, 
randomized trials that defined which subsets of patients benefit from 
revascularization therapies. However, because the very elderly were severely 
underrepresented in these randomized studies, we have almost no information 
concerning the choice of treatment in these patients. Initial results of 
percutaneous revascularization procedures in elderly patients come from 
retrospective analysis performed during the pre-stent era. In these studies a 
procedural mortality risk 5-fold higher in patients > 80 years compared with 
those < 60 is reported. With the advent of coronary stenting, a significant 
increase in the rate of procedural success and a reduction in the incidence of 
procedural mortality, acute myocardial infarction and emergency coronary artery 
bypass grafting were observed also in the elderly. These initial positive 
results prompted physicians to treat patients with impaired clinical conditions 
and with unfavorable angiographic characteristics, resulting in a long-term 
freedom from major adverse cardiac events comparable to those observed in 
younger patients (78% in patients < 70 years vs 75% in patients > 80 years). The 
comparison between the percutaneous approach and the surgical approach to 
coronary artery disease in the elderly has its major limitation in the lack of 
data from randomized trials. The available information suggests similar results 
with the two different strategies (5-year survival rate: 85.7% for the coronary 
artery bypass grafting group vs 81.4% for the percutaneous revascularization 
group) with a clear benefit in favor of surgery only in diabetic patients. The 
only constant difference is the need of a repeat intervention which is 
significantly higher for the percutaneous approach. Furthermore, the 
introduction of newer percutaneous devices suitable for the recanalization of 
totally occluded coronary arteries could increase the completeness of the 
revascularization achieved with the percutaneous approach with a positive effect 
on the long-term outcome. These considerations could be "out of time" if the 
results obtained with the use of drug-eluting stents observed in selected 
patient populations will be confirmed in larger trials and in routine clinical 
practice. Whereas the advantages of the percutaneous versus the surgical 
approach in the elderly have not been fully clarified in patients with stable or 
unstable angina, primary angioplasty appears to be a very promising strategy in 
old patients with acute myocardial infarction. The improved clinical success 
with percutaneous revascularization in the elderly (acute mortality in patients 
> 85 years: 28.4% reperfused vs 38.5% not reperfused; p = 0.001) has to be 
related to the use of stents and to IIb/IIIa antagonists. In conclusion, when an 
old patient needs myocardial revascularization, the percutaneous approach 
should, in our opinion, be considered the treatment of choice in subjects either 
with stable or unstable angina and in those with acute myocardial infarction. At 
present, surgical revascularization provides better results in diabetic 
patients. The advent of drug-eluting stents may change many of the current 
limitations of percutaneous revascularization and further expand the use of this 
strategy.

PMID: 11899566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Clin Breast Cancer. 2001 Jul;2(2):145-52. doi: 10.3816/CBC.2001.n.019.

The impact of alternative practices on the cost and quality of mammographic 
screening in the United States.

Burnside E(1), Belkora J, Esserman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California at San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.

The decentralized structure of health care in the Unites States hinders 
population-based analysis of breast cancer screening. Our objectives are to 
model mammography in the United States as a whole, to identify the variables 
that most profoundly affect cost and efficacy, and to develop a strategy to 
improve mammography screening from a population perspective. A spreadsheet model 
was used to represent the variables of mammography screening in the United 
States. The population-based national screening program in Sweden provides a 
framework for comparison. The outcome measures are the aggregate cost and the 
number of cancers detected by mammography. We used deterministic sensitivity 
analysis to calculate the impact of variation in practice. Aggregate costs of 
screening in the United States are in the range of $3-$5 billion dollars. The 
percentage of women screened, cost per mammogram, cancer to biopsy ratio, recall 
rate, and cost of recall have the most profound effect on the quality and cost 
of a national screening program. Variance of these high-impact variables, based 
on the U.S. population, modifies the aggregate cost of screening by over $2 
billion. As mammography screening in the United States increases to include all 
women over age 40, high-impact variables should be optimized to decrease costs 
and improve breast cancer detection. Our model establishes which parameters are 
most important.

DOI: 10.3816/CBC.2001.n.019
PMID: 11899786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Jan-Feb;21(1):275-6. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.1.275.

The economic value of medical technology.

Gandjour A.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 Sep-Oct;20(5):11-29.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.1.275
PMID: 11900091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Jan-Feb;21(1):276-7. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.1.276.

Medical technology's impacts and costs.

Christian J, Weissberg J.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 Mar-Apr;20(2):9-18.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 Sep-Oct;20(5):11-29.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 Sep-Oct;20(5):180-6.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.1.276
PMID: 11900092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Mar-Apr;21(2):107-12. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.107.

Ideas at the margin or marginalized ideas? Nonmedical determinants of health in 
Canada.

Lavis JN(1).

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.107
PMID: 11900150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Mar-Apr;21(2):13-30. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.13.

Policy implications of the gradient of health and wealth.

Deaton A(1).

Author information:
(1)Woodrow Wilson School and Department of Economics, Princeton University, NJ, 
USA.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Jul-Aug;21(4):300; author reply 300.

Men in the United States with family incomes in the top 5 percent of the 
distribution in 1980 had about 25 percent longer to live than did those in the 
bottom 5 percent. Proportional increases in income are associated with equal 
proportional decreases in mortality throughout the income distribution. I 
discuss possible reasons for this gradient and ask whether it calls for the 
redistribution of income in the interest of public health. I argue that the 
existence of the gradient strengthens the case for income redistribution in 
favor of the poor but that targeting health inequalities would not be sound 
policy.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.13
PMID: 11900153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 Mar-Apr;21(2):31-46. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.31.

The influence of income on health: views of an epidemiologist.

Marmot M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health and International Centre for 
Health and Society, University College London.

Income is related to health in three ways: through the gross national product of 
countries, the income of individuals, and the income inequalities among rich 
nations and among geographic areas. A central question is the degree to which 
these associations reflect a causal association. If so, redistribution of income 
would improve health. This paper discusses two ways in which income could be 
causally related to health: through a direct effect on the material conditions 
necessary for biological survival, and through an effect on social participation 
and opportunity to control life circumstances. The fewer goods and services are 
provided publicly by the community, the more important individual income is for 
health. Under present U.S. circumstances, a policy of counteracting growing 
income inequalities through the tax and benefit system and of public provision 
appears justified.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.2.31
PMID: 11900185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Axone. 2000 Sep;22(1):24-31.

Impact of a family-centred approach on a couple living with a brain tumour: a 
case study.

Leboeuf I(1).

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumour Program, Montreal Neurological Hospital, Montreal, Quebec.

The diagnosis of a malignant brain tumour can be devastating for both patients 
and their families. Despite neurological and cancer treatment advances, there 
has been little progress in extending life expectancy for these patients. 
Cassileth et al. (1985) suggest that of all types of cancer, brain tumours cause 
the most psychosocial repercussions for the family. The brain tumour clinical 
nurse specialist (CNS) is in a strategic position to intervene with families 
along the continuum of care by using a family-oriented approach which can 
facilitate their adaptation to this health problem. The present case study will 
describe the illness experience of one couple where a member had a brain tumour. 
The process of assessment, interventions and outcomes will be highlighted. The 
CNS utilized the Calgary Family Assessment Model (CFAM) (Wright & Leahey, 1984) 
and Calgary Family Intervention Model (CFIM) (Wright & Leahey, 1994) to guide 
her work with this family. An example of an intervention was the illness 
narrative approach. In this approach the concepts of illness experience, 
perceptions, beliefs and support were used as part of the therapeutic modality 
which served to enhance the coping strategies of the couple and decreased their 
crisis situation. This collaborative style of nursing promoted the well-being 
throughout the illness trajectory of both the family and the CNS.

PMID: 11901492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Natl Black Nurses Assoc. 2001 Dec;12(2):vii-viii.

Ending health disparities in African-American men: a clarion call to arms.

Giger JN.

PMID: 11902024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2001 Dec;23(9):591-7. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200112000-00008.

Low relapse rate in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia after 
risk-directed therapy.

Tzortzatou-Stathopoulou F(1), Papadopoulou AL, Moschovi M, Botsonis A, Tsangaris 
GT.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Pediatrics, University of Athens, Aghia Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Greece. ftzortzatou@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: Even though acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) responds well to 
chemotherapy, relapse remains the major problem. This study documents relapse 
and survival rates in 85 consecutive children (33 at good risk, 52 at high risk) 
with ALL diagnosed in 1991 to 1996.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Until 1993, the New York II protocol for the high-risk 
group and a combination of UKALL XI (induction) and R blocks of ALL-REZ BFM-87 
(intensification) regimens for patients at good risk were used. To reduce 
toxicity, the protocols were subsequently modified. Consolidation treatment was 
the same for both groups, consisting of a lower cytarabine dose and methotrexate 
removal, whereas intensification was changed only for the high-risk group using 
the BB block of the NHL-BFM-90 protocol. The bone marrow clearance of leukemia 
was assessed on day 22, and minimal residual disease was detected using 
polymerase chain reaction analysis of Ig heavy-chain gene rearrangements.
RESULTS: Seventy patients had common precursor B lineage ALL, six had pre-B-ALL, 
eight had T-ALL, and one had B-ALL. Two patients never achieved remission and 
died. Six patients died of consolidation-related complications. Four more 
patients died, two during induction and two during maintenance therapy. Two 
other children had relapse (2.3%), both of whom were treated with the earlier 
protocols and then underwent bone marrow transplantation. Four more children 
with morphologically complete remission showed minimal residual disease (which 
reached the levels of 1 leukemic cell among 10(2)-10(4) normal cells) with the 
use of clone-specific probes at several points of the study intervals, but never 
had relapse. The 5-year overall and event-free survival rates were 86% and 83%, 
respectively. The 5-year overall survival rates for good-risk and high-risk 
groups were 94% and 81%; the corresponding event-free rates were 91% and 78%. 
The 5-year event-free survival rate in the patients at high risk was 
significantly higher after the protocol change (90% vs. 65%, P = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The modification proved to be effective in diminishing the 
therapeutic toxicity and improving the efficacy, mainly for the high-risk group.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200112000-00008
PMID: 11902303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Australas J Dermatol. 2001 Nov;42(4):252-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-0960.2001.00530.x.

Inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal naevi: a review of 23 cases.

Lee SH(1), Rogers M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Medical Centre, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Hainsworth Street, Westmead, Sydney, New South Wales 2145, Australia.

Twenty-three patients diagnosed with inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal 
naevi (ILVEN) over a 13 year period are reviewed retrospectively. These ILVEN 
showed a predilection for the buttock and legs and were usually unilateral. 
Onset of the lesions was usually within the first 6 months of life and extension 
beyond the original margins occurred in 26% of cases. Sixteen of the 23 patients 
were male. Ten patients had ILVEN predominantly involving the left side, 12 were 
