on the right side and, in one case, the side involved was not recorded.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-0960.2001.00530.x
PMID: 11903156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Medsurg Nurs. 2000 Dec;9(6):282-3.

Fairness: the most basic outcome measure.

Fetter MS.

PMID: 11904861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Harefuah. 2002 Feb;141(2):170-7, 222.

[Osteoporosis in men].

[Article in Hebrew]

Liel Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Soroka Medical Center, Ben-Gurion University in 
the Negev, Beer-Sheba, Israel.

While many still consider osteoporosis a gender-specific condition of women, an 
increasing volume of data is accumulating on the epidemiology, pathophysiology 
and treatment of osteoporosis in men. The main conclusions arising from the 
available data indicate that the number of osteoporotic men is increasing, and 
is expected to continue rising due to the increase in life expectancy for men. 
Risk factors for osteoporotic fractures are similar in men and women. Despite 
some gender differences in the pathophysiology of osteoporosis, responses to 
available osteoporosis treatments seem to be the same. Based on available data, 
it is recommended to implement preventive measures (calcium and vitamin D 
supplementation) on aging men, similar to women, and to review the official 
policy on the management of osteoporosis to also include men at high risk.

PMID: 11905090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. N Engl J Med. 2002 Mar 21;346(12):931-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe020011. Epub 2002
Mar  19.

Expanding indications for implantable cardiac defibrillators.

Bigger JT.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 1;347(5):365-7; author reply 365-7.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 1;347(5):365-7; author reply 365-7.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Mar 21;346(12):877-83.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe020011
PMID: 11907294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Br J Nurs. 2001 Sep 13-26;10(16):1073-4, 1076. doi: 
10.12968/bjon.2001.10.16.9377.

Esprit HR mattress cover in pressure ulcer prevention.

Khoulowa J(1).

Author information:
(1)York District Hospital.

Modern mattresses provide soft dense foam, which permits the redistribution of 
pressure on the patient over a wider area - away from bony prominences where 
pressure ulcers usually occur. The material used in producing multistretch 
covers for the new mattresses had a tendency to delaminate as a result of a 
combination of heat, moisture and inappropriate cleansing techniques causing the 
water barriers to fall. In partnership with York Health NHS Trust and the 
material manufacturer, STM Healthcare produced a mattress cover (Esprit HR) 
which was able to withstand higher pressure from heat and moisture and greatly 
extended the life expectancy of the Esprit HR mattress.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2001.10.16.9377
PMID: 11907458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Oct;6(4):313-31. doi: 
10.1177/107424840100600401.

Morbidity and mortality in cardiovascular disorders: impact of reduced heart 
rate.

Singh BN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology VA Medical Center, West Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 
90073, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/107424840100600401
PMID: 11907634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Proc Inst Mech Eng H. 2002;216(1):63-75. doi: 10.1243/0954411021536298.

A spatial model of the knee for the preoperative planning of knee surgery.

Olanlokun KF(1), Wills DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Hull, UK.

A model on the spatial mechanical behaviour of the passive knee is presented. 
The femoral articular surfaces were represented by generalized, sagittally 
elliptical, toroidal surfaces. The medial and lateral tibial articular surfaces 
were represented by a dished spherical surface and the lower hemihyperbolic 
region of a torus respectively. Anatomical articular cartilage, knee ligaments 
and the posterior capsule were represented by spring-like deformable elements 
with non-linear load versus deflection characteristics. All the forces that act 
on the femur relative to the tibia were represented by three orthogonal forces 
and three associated moments. Spatial, articulation-dependent femorotibial 
kinematic constraint equations of the passive knee were formulated in an 
analytically explicit manner, based on the natural coordinates of the articular 
surfaces. The constraint equations were solved algebraically in closed form. 
Equations were derived that describe spatial femoro-tibial motion, ligament 
length, ligament strain, ligament-based elastic potential energy and the 
quasi-static equilibrium of the passive knee. Software was written, simulations 
on the motion characteristics and load versus deflection characteristics of the 
knee were carried out and graphical results were presented. The simulation of 
planar flexion/extension was almost spontaneous. The time taken to simulate 
spatial six-degree-of-freedom femoro-tibial motion was less than 2.5 min. The 
models were found to be capable of representing real-life passive knees to a 
high degree of satisfaction. It has been demonstrated that the models can 
provide knee surgeons with additional information on major aspects of the 
preoperative planning of knee surgery. The models can be used to enhance the 
preoperative planning of ligament reconstruction, articular surfaces related 
surgery, osteotomy and patellar tendon transfer surgery.

DOI: 10.1243/0954411021536298
PMID: 11908484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Brain Tumor Pathol. 2001;18(2):101-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02479422.

Primary lymphoma of the central nervous system: a clinicopathologic study.

Taniguchi E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, National Hospital Kure Medical Center, Hiroshima, 
Japan. etanigu@kure-nh.go.jp

We performed clinicopathologic examinations of 27 cases of primary lymphoma of 
the central nervous system not related to acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
We considered age and change of performance status (PS) to be especially 
important in clinical examination. We also conducted pathological studies of 
these tumors and the characteristics of their cells, in order to characterize 
pathological subtypes, cell kinetics, and involvement of viruses. PS of patients 
more than 70 years old decreased markedly before treatment and did not show the 
improvement after treatment that was exhibited by those under 70 years of age. 
Low PS (60% or less) after initial treatment, high MIB-1 positivity (over 
44.0%), and high counts of AgNOR (over 4.56/cell) were significantly associated 
with lower survival rates. Patients with immunoblastic lymphoma and high MIB-1 
positivity are likely to die from general debilitation, without evidence of 
recurrence from imaging. Preoperative steroid therapy was significantly 
associated with higher apoptotic positivity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02479422
PMID: 11908865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Brain Tumor Pathol. 2001;18(2):151-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02479429.

Prognostic value of Ki-67 (MIB-1) and p53 in ependymomas.

Suzuki S(1), Oka H, Kawano N, Tanaka S, Utsuki S, Fujii K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

To determine whether Ki-67 (MIB-1) and p53 have prognostic value in ependymomas, 
clinicopathologic study was undertaken in 29 patients with this tumor. The 
clinical course correlated well with the histological grade according to the 
World Health Organization (WHO) grading system, and it was the worst in patients 
with anaplastic ependymoma. The percent expression of MIB-1 and p53 correlated 
with the histological grade of malignancy. With regard to the subtypes of benign 
ependymoma, the clinical course was the worst in clear-cell ependymoma, which 
had a significantly higher expression of MIB-1 and p53 than the other subtypes. 
Tanycytic ependymoma showed the most benign clinical course and the lowest 
expression of MIB-1 and p53. Although the WHO grading generally tended to 
correlate with the clinical course of ependymomas, these two 
subtypes--clear-cell ependymoma and tanycytic ependymoma--exhibited biological 
properties different from those of other grade II ependymomas.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02479429
PMID: 11908872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Cancer Treat Rev. 2001 Dec;27(6):375-402. doi: 10.1053/ctrv.2001.0222.

Chemo-immunotherapy and chemo-adoptive immunotherapy of cancer.

Gomez GG(1), Hutchison RB, Kruse CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 4200 
East Ninth Avenue, Campus Box B184, Denver, CO 80262, USA.

The chemo-immunotherapy (CIT) and chemo-adoptive immunotherapy (CAIT) regimens 
tested in the past decade are summarized. From them we have learned a great deal 
about the interactions between various chemotherapeutic agents, immune 
modulating agents and effector cells. The most commonly reported result in 
multi-modality experiments with CAIT has been a synergistic enhancement in 
antitumor activity. Clinical trials usually demonstrated improvement in patient 
quality of life, an extension of survival time, and occasional complete 
regression of tumor. In many animal models, this enhancement often meant the 
complete regression and apparent cure of tumor in the animal. One mechanism by 
which this synergistic enhancement takes place appears to be a suppression of 
tumor-associated suppressor T cell activity by the chemotherapeutic agents, 
thereby inducing enhanced cytolytic activity against tumor by the adoptively 
transferred, activated effector cells. In CAIT the most commonly used drug has 
been cyclophosphamide. In CIT a wide variety of chemotherapy agents have been 
used but none of the clinical trials made use of cyclophosphamide. Thus, direct 
comparisons are not possible. Suggestive of the intricate regulatory processes 
involved, many CIT studies indicate a synergy only when specific doses of 
chemotherapy and immunotherapy agents are given, and in a specific sequence. CIT 
has become less toxic, is being handled on a cost-effective outpatient basis, 
while maintaining similar objective response rates to earlier inpatient 
treatments. In the future, CAIT and CIT will probably have an increasing role in 
the management of patients with specific cancers.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ctrv.2001.0222
PMID: 11908930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Exp Gerontol. 2002 May;37(5):629-38. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00229-7.

Extension of life span and stress resistance of Drosophila melanogaster by 
long-term supplementation with melatonin.

Bonilla E(1), Medina-Leendertz S, Díaz S.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Clínicas Dr Américo Negrette, Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad del Zulia, Apartado Postal 1151 Maracaibo, Venezuela. 
ebonarillo@yahoo.com

According to the free radical theory of aging, free radicals are involved in the 
production of changes in cellular metabolism that lead to a time-dependent 
functional decline in all living beings. Consequently, antioxidant and/or free 
radicals scavengers may retard the aging process. We explored the effect of 
melatonin on the life span of Drosophila melanogaster (Oregon wild strain). It 
was presumed that given the antioxidant and free radicals scavenger properties 
of melatonin, this hormone would prevent oxidative damage to the fly tissues and 
slow down the process of aging. Melatonin, added daily to the nutrition medium 
at a concentration of 100 microg/ml, increased significantly the life span of D. 
melanogaster. The maximum life span was 61.2 days in controls and 81.5 days in 
melatonin fed flies. Relative to the controls, the percentage increase in the 
melatonin fed flies was 33.2% in maximum life span, 19.3% in the onset of 90% 
mortality, and 13.5% in median life span. Furthermore, in a test of superoxide 
mediated toxicity it was shown that melatonin treatment increased the resistance 
of D. melanogaster to paraquat. Finally, the augmented resistance to an ambient 
temperature of 36 degrees C was also a demonstration of the antioxidative 
protection provided by the hormone.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(01)00229-7
PMID: 11909680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2002 Apr;72(4):485-90. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.72.4.485.

Endovascular management of unruptured intracranial aneurysms: does outcome 
justify treatment?

Goddard AJ(1), Annesley-Williams D, Gholkar A.

Author information:
(1)Neurosciences Department, Newcastle General Hospital, Westgate Road, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE4 6BE, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The appropriate management of unruptured intracranial aneurysms 
depends on a complete understanding of their natural history and on the risks 
and efficacy of treatment options. There is little current data on the risks of 
endovascular therapy for these aneurysms. The aim of this study was to assess 
outcome of endovascular treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms.
METHOD: A retrospective analysis was performed on all unruptured aneurysms 
treated by Guglielmi detachable (GD) coils at this institution from 1994 to 
2000.
RESULTS: Seventy three unruptured aneurysms were treated in 62 patients. There 
were 52 female and 10 male patients, with a median age of 55.7 years. Clinical 
background was: subarachnoid haemorrhage due to rupture of an additional 
aneurysm (40), headache (4), third nerve palsy (four), familial (four), and 
incidental (10). There were 14 technical failures with no clinical sequelae. 
Four procedural complications occurred (5.5%, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 
0.3% to 10.9%). One patient had temporary clinical sequelae (1.4%, 95% CI 0% to 
2.7%); 79% of treated aneurysms had stable occlusions at follow up, 10.5% showed 
improved occlusion grade, 10.5% showed some recurrence, and three patients have 
required retreatment. Follow up modified Glasgow outcome scores were grade 1, 
71%; grade 2, 18%; grade 3, 3%; grade 4, 3%. There were no deaths or 
haemorrhages during the follow up period. Two patients died as a result of 
complications from subarachnoid haemorrhage.
CONCLUSION: The endovascular treatment of patients with unruptured aneurysms is 
safe with few clinical or procedural complications. Poor outcomes were only seen 
in those patients who presented with subarachnoid haemorrhage due to rupture of 
an aneurysm at another site.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.72.4.485
PMCID: PMC1737825
PMID: 11909908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Annu Rev Public Health. 2002;23:115-34. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.23.100901.140513. Epub 2001 Oct 25.

HALYS and QALYS and DALYS, Oh My: similarities and differences in summary 
measures of population Health.

Gold MR(1), Stevenson D, Fryback DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, City University of New 
York Medical School, 138th Street and Convent Avenue, New York, New York 10031, 
USA. Goldmr@med.cuny.edu

Health-adjusted life years (HALYs) are population health measures permitting 
morbidity and mortality to be simultaneously described within a single number. 
They are useful for overall estimates of burden of disease, comparisons of the 
relative impact of specific illnesses and conditions on communities, and in 
economic analyses. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) are types of HALYs whose original purposes were at variance. 
Their growing importance and the varied uptake of the methodology by different 
U.S. and international entities makes it useful to understand their differences 
as well as their similarities. A brief history of both measures is presented and 
methods for calculating them are reviewed. Methodological and ethical issues 
that have been raised in association with HALYs more generally are presented. 
Finally, we raise concerns about the practice of using different types of HALYs 
within different decision-making contexts and urge action that builds and 
clarifies this useful measurement field.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.23.100901.140513
PMID: 11910057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. JAMA. 2002 Mar 27;287(12):1524; author reply 1524-5.

Priorities for lung transplantation among patients with cystic fibrosis.

Maish AB.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2001 Dec 5;286(21):2683-9.

PMID: 11911745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Compend Contin Educ Dent. 2001 Apr;22(4):326-8, 330, 332-4.

Long-term performance of Osseotite implants: a 6-year clinical follow-up.

Sullivan DY, Sherwood RL, Porter SS.

In this prospective, multicenter study, 147 Osseotite implants were placed in 75 
patients (32 men and 43 women with a mean age of 54 years) using a conventional 
two-stage surgical protocol with 3 months of healing time in the mandible and 6 
months in the maxilla. Of the 147 implants, 69% were inserted in posterior sites 
and 64% were short implants of 10 mm or less. From the time of implant insertion 
to second-stage surgery, 5.1 months (+/- 2.4 months) elapsed. Restorative 
treatments included 25 single-tooth replacements (28.4%), 58 short span fixed 
bridges (65.9%), 1 full-arch reconstruction (1.1%), and 4 overdentures (4.5%). 
The mean time from implant placement to final recall was 74.1 months (+/- 8.9 
months). At second-stage surgery and at 6-month and annual follow-up 
examinations, implants were evaluated for mobility, peri-implant radiolucency, 
gingival health, signs and symptoms of infection, neuropathies, paresthesia, and 
crestal bone levels. A 3-year interim report identified 5 implant failures, 4 of 
which occurred as a clustering phenomenon in a single, medically compromised 
patient. Using the life table analysis method, the cumulative implant success 
rate was calculated at 96.6%. The 3-year interim report indicates that the 
implants developed an extended, functional osseous state that remained stable 
for more than 6 years.

PMID: 11913278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Gerontol Nurs. 2002 Mar;28(3):14-22. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-20020301-05.

Thriving: a life span theory.

Haight BK(1), Barba BE, Tesh AS, Courts NF.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, College of Nursing, Charleston 29425, 
USA.

Erratum in
    J Gerontol Nurs 2002 May;28(5):45.

There is a need for aging theories to become holistic and multidisciplinary with 
a life span focus. A theory is the construction of explicit explanations in 
accounting for empirical findings. A good gerontological theory integrates 
knowledge, tells how and why phenomena are related, leads to prediction, and 
provides process and understanding. In addition, a good theory must be holistic 
and take into account all that impacts on a person throughout a lifetime of 
aging. Based on these criteria, the authors created the Theory of Thriving, with 
a holistic life span perspective for studying people in their environments as 
they age. This article proposes a theory for studying people over time in a 
holistic, encompassing manner.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-20020301-05
PMID: 11913511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Ethn Dis. 2002 Winter;12(1):S2-13-4.

The impact of socioeconomic status on health disparities in the United States.

Wykoff R.

PMID: 11913628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Ethn Dis. 2002 Winter;12(1):S2-2-4.

Foreword: Building a healthy South--the challenge is now.

Sullivan LW(1), Richmond J.

Author information:
(1)Morehouse School of Medicine, USA.

PMID: 11913631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2002 Mar;111(3 Pt 1):204-9. doi: 
10.1177/000348940211100303.

Metachronous second primary cancers after successful partial laryngectomy for 
invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the true vocal cord.

Laccourreye O(1), Veivers FD, Hans S, Brasnu FD, Garcia D, Laccourreye FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Hopital Européen 
Georges Pompidou, University of Paris V, France.

The current retrospective studies documented the incidence, sites of occurrence, 
risk factors, and outcome of metachronous second primary cancers (MSPCs) among 
an inception cohort of 410 patients with invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the 
true vocal cord successfully treated with partial laryngectomy at a single 
institution. The Kaplan-Meier actuarial life-table method was used to document 
the relationship between the incidence of MSPCs and survival data. Univariate 
analysis was performed for potential statistical relationships among the 
incidence of MSPCs, the site of occurrence, and different variables. The overall 
incidence of MSPCs was 23.9% (98/410). The 10-year actuarial survival estimate 
for MSPCs was 20.4%. The incidence curve of MSPCs was linear, resulting in a 
2%/y rate of development for MSPCs. In univariate analysis, the only variable 
that demonstrated a statistical correlation with the incidence of MSPCs was 
smoking, with MSPCs being statistically more likely to occur in smokers than in 
nonsmokers (p = .04). The main sites of origin for MSPCs were the lung (25.5% of 
cases), other non-upper aerodigestive tract sites (32.7%), and the upper 
aerodigestive tract (41.8%). The 10-year actuarial estimates for MSPCs were 9.1% 
in the upper aerodigestive tract, 7.1% in sites other than the lung or upper 
aerodigestive tract, and 6.6% in the lung. The incidence curve for MSPCs was 
linear, whatever the site of origin, resulting in 1 %/y, 0.7%/y, and 0.6%/y 
rates of development for MSPCs in the upper aerodigestive tract, sites other 
than the lung or upper aerodigestive tract, and the lung, respectively. Survival 
was statistically reduced when an MSPC developed; the 10-year actuarial survival 
estimates were 76.8% in patients who did not develop an MSPC and 43.7% in 
patients who developed an MSPC (p < .0001). Overall, 68.4% of patients who 
developed an MSPC (67/98) died of this disease. The 10-year actuarial survival 
estimates were 24% for lung MSPCs, 43.7% for non-lung, non-upper aerodigestive 
tract MSPCs, and 63.4% for upper aerodigestive tract MSPCs.

DOI: 10.1177/000348940211100303
PMID: 11913679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;23(3):251-4. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1595.

Acute leg ischaemia from thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysms: role of 
preoperative thrombolysis.

Dorigo W(1), Pulli R, Turini F, Pratesi G, Credi G, Innocenti AA, Pratesi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: to evaluate early and long term results of thrombolysis and surgery 
in acutely thrombosed popliteal artery aneurysms.
SETTING: retrospective study; teaching hospital.
MATERIALS: between 1990 and 2000, 109 popliteal artery aneurysms were operated 
on. In 24 patients acute leg ischaemia due to thrombosis of aneurysm was 
present.
METHODS: ten patients underwent urgent surgical intervention (group 1); and 14 
thrombolysis with urokinase, until patency of popliteal and tibial vessels was 
achieved or for a maximum of 3 days (group 2). Ultrasonographic follow-up was 
performed at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months and then annually. Early results and 
follow-up data were analysed by chi-square test and life-table analysis 
(Kaplan-Meier curve) and late results were compared by mean of log rank test.
RESULTS: in group 1 early limb salvage was 70%; in group 2 it was 86% (p=n.s.). 
When thrombolysis was successful, patency and limb salvage were 100%. There was 
no local or systemic complications during thrombolysis nor worsening of 
ischaemia. Follow-up was completed in 91 cases, with a mean duration of 26 
months. Forty-eight months primary patency rate was better, even if not 
statistically significant, in group 2 than in group 1.
CONCLUSIONS: in patients with acute leg ischaemia due to thrombosis of popliteal 
artery aneurysms, preoperative thrombolysis can be considered a safe and 
effective alternative to urgent surgery.

Copyright 2002 Harcourt Publishers Limited.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2001.1595
PMID: 11914013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2002 Mar;386(8):558-69. doi:
10.1007/s00423-001-0274-6.  Epub 2002 Jan 24.

Timing and extent of surgery in symptomatic and asymptomatic neuroendocrine 
tumors of the pancreas in MEN 1.

Akerström G(1), Hessman O, Skogseid B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, University Hospital, 75185 Uppsala, Sweden. 
goran.akerstrom@kirurgi.uu.se

Pancreaticoduodenal tumors develop in a majority of patients with multiple 
endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1) and have a pronounced effect on life 
expectancy as the principal cause of disease related death. Previous discussion 
of therapy has focused mainly on syndromes of hormone excess and especially the 
management of MEN 1 associated Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES). The syndromes 
of hormone excess, however, may be late features of the endocrinopathy and, when 
developed, indicate presence of metastases in more than one-third of patients. 
Recent possibilities for genetic diagnosis have emphasized requirements of 
prophylactic operation for prevention of malignant development. We recommend 
screening with biochemical markers and endoscopic ultrasound for early 
detection, and strong efforts of operative tumor removal before metastases have 
occurred. Surgery is generally recommended in patients with or without hormonal 
syndromes in the absence of spread hepatic metastases. Operative procedures 
include enucleation of tumors in the head of the pancreas, excision of duodenal 
gastrinomas together with clearance of lymph gland metastases, and as 
prophylaxis against tumor recurrence combination with distal 80% subtotal 
pancreatic resection. More extensive surgical tumor reduction is believed to 
reduce the risks for malignant progression of the pancreaticoduodenal tumors, 
but this requires further evaluation in MEN 1.

DOI: 10.1007/s00423-001-0274-6
PMID: 11914931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Gerontol Nurs. 2001 Jun;27(6):38-46; quiz 54-5. doi: 
10.3928/0098-9134-20010601-09.

The 20th century. Looking back at the ambiance of aging from the perspective of 
age-specific journals and periodicals.

Holkup PA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa College of Nursing, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.

The word "aging" is fraught with nuance, both positive and negative. The purpose 
of this article is to describe the results of a preliminary exploration of the 
ambiance of the concept of aging in the United States as seen from the 
perspective of periodical literature from the past century. A convenience sample 
of professional journals and lay periodicals concerned with aging and the issues 
of aging was selected as the focus for this investigation. Specifically, volume 
one, number one of the selected journals was examined with regard to the date of 
the first publication, the table of contents, and the first issue editorial or 
articles in the first volume describing the motivation for the introduction of 
the journal. Findings indicated that as the century progressed and the study of 
aging took form, the focus shifted from how to manage the problems of aging to: 
(a) how to promote healthier young adult lifestyles to increase the chances of a 
healthy old age, (b) how to continue to maintain older adults' health and 
therefore, increase the life expectancy for those people older than age 65, and 
(c) how older adults contribute to the well-being of society. The longevity of 
the human species, as well as the increasing size of the aging population is a 
new phenomenon, the ramifications of which are difficult to predict. However, as 
the emotional tone of the journals in the latter quarter of the century 
gradually became more positive, it was apparent that consideration was being 
given to the idea that this phenomenon could be a positive force in the 
collective growth of humanity.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-20010601-09
PMID: 11915118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Pflege. 2002 Feb;15(1):16-23. doi: 10.1024/1012-5302.15.1.16.

[Prevalence of ulcus cruris in home care nursing. An epidemiological study in 
North Rhine-Westphalia].

[Article in German]

Laible J(1), Mayer H, Evers GC.

Author information:
(1)Universität Witten/Herdecke, Institut für Pflegewissenschaft.

The aim of this study was to provide reliable data on prevalence of leg ulcers 
in home-care setting. A descriptive explorative cross-sectional design was used. 
In March 2000, a randomised sample of 520 community home nursing services in 
North-Rhine Westphalia was sent a standardised questionnaire. Apart from 
questions about the type of service provider and its geographical population, 
demographic patient data and information about duration and cause of ulcer was 
collected. The findings based on the data gathered from 161 nursing home-care 
services caring for a total 12,156 patients. The overall prevalence was 2.68% 
(+/- 0.29%) for leg ulcers in home-care setting. The median age of the 326 
affected patients was 77.5 years. Women are more than twice as often affected as 
men, which could be due to the longer life-expectancy for women. A major problem 
for home nursing services, however, is the large number of leg ulcers of unknown 
origin. This was the case in almost a quarter of the sample. Depending on the 
causal factors, compression therapy is of paramount importance and crucial to 
the successful outcome of the treatment of the leg ulcer. The markedly chronic 
nature of leg ulcers is again confirmed by this study. Currently, leg ulcers 
have an average duration of ten months. However, it is not unusual for affected 
patients to suffer for years or even decades. Almost 80% of patients had their 
ulcer dressed once a day by the nursing home-care service.

DOI: 10.1024/1012-5302.15.1.16
PMID: 11915400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Pflege. 2002 Feb;15(1):6-14. doi: 10.1024/1012-5302.15.1.6.

["... but it is for many also a large step: from the brink of death to the 
celebration of life...". Routine care with new drug treatment possibilities for 
HIV positive and AIDS patients from the viewpoint of patients].

[Article in German]

Fesenfeld A(1).

Author information:
(1)anke.fesenfeld@arcormail.de

New combination therapy provides a stabilization of health and a longer life 
expectancy for people living with HIV/AIDS who are able to deal with their drugs 
and the strict daily medical regime inflicted. This of course produces high 
expectations. Due to the success of the combination therapy, the psychosocial 
problems associated with it have been pushed to the background. How do people 
living with HIV/AIDS evaluate the changes that occurred since the introduction 
of the new combination therapy? Which changes affect their daily routine most? 
Is there a need for change in nursing care? In order to address these questions, 
this study attempts to grasp and analyse the changes and coping strategies of 
people that are treated with combination therapy at source. The results are 
discussed taking a perspective of positive change and support. The main aim of 
this study was to contribute to a better understanding of people living with 
HIV/AIDS that are treated with combination therapy and to improve their 
professional support.

DOI: 10.1024/1012-5302.15.1.6
PMID: 11915403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Implant Dent. 2002;11(1):58-66. doi: 10.1097/00008505-200201000-00015.

Analysis of 435 screw-vent dental implants placed in 161 patients: software 
enhancement of clinical evaluation.

Arlin ML.

This paper demonstrates how a computer software program was utilized in a 
private practice to supplement the clinical evaluation of one implant system. 
Clinical data were entered into a computer database at the time of implant 
placement and up to 13 years for follow-up appointments. Data were divided into 
two groups and subjected to lifetable analyses. The focus group consisted of a 
machined-titanium, screw-type implant with an internal abutment connection from 
one manufacturer. The residual database consisted of mixed implant designs with 
a variety of abutment connections and surfaces from several other manufacturers. 
Lifetable survival data between the two groups were generated. Cumulative 
survival rates from 0 to 13 years were 94.2% (n = 435) for the focus group and 
90.1% (n = 2339) for the reference group. There were 25 implants lost in the 
focus group and 11 other implants were deemed "at risk." Survival results from 
other lifetable analyses are also presented for the two groups. Documentation of 
empirical clinical data in a computer software database over a period of time 
can help private practice clinicians better evaluate the dental implant systems 
used in their practices.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-200201000-00015
PMID: 11915546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Health Expect. 2002 Mar;5(1):55-62. doi: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00161.x.

Whose priorities count? Comparison of community-identified health problems and 
Burden-of-Disease-assessed health priorities in a district in Uganda.

Kapiriri L(1), Norheim OF.

Author information:
(1)Centre for International Health, Department of Public Health and Primary 
Health Care, University of Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to compare health problems as defined 
quantitatively by the Burden of Disease study to those defined by the community. 
The secondary aim was to explore the potential for using qualitative 
participatory methodologies as tools for planing and priority setting.
DESIGN: Interviews and group discussions with a purposely sampled set of 
community members (n = 51) and community leaders(n = 6). The Nominal group 
technique, as well as in-depth interviews, were used to identify major health 
problems - as perceived by the community. Epidemiological data on the major 
health problems were derived from the national Burden of Disease study.
RESULTS: Community perceived health problems were similar to those identified by 
the burden of disease study. Reasons given for the ranking included prevalence, 
fatality, social and cultural stigma. Social stigma and cultural values were not 
considered in the burden of disease studies. However, socially stigmatized 
diseases were considered to be more serious compared to non-stigmatised 
conditions, in spite of their low prevalence. Poverty and lack of knowledge were 
the perceived major causes of ill-health in the community.
CONCLUSIONS: Qualitative approaches like the nominal group technique may be 
useful in eliciting community values that could supplement quantitative 
information like that elicited by the Burden of Disease study. Such a mixed 
approach would capture both epidemiologicaly assessed and community felt needs 
in the priority setting process.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00161.x
PMCID: PMC5060125
PMID: 11915845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Am J Manag Care. 2002 Mar;8(3):211-8.

Application of cost-effectiveness analysis to multiple products: a practical 
guide.

Bala MV(1), Zarkin GA.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research, Centocor, Inc, Malvern, PA 19355, USA. balam@centocor.com

The appropriate interpretation of cost-effectiveness results and its use in 
treatment decision making have been debated vigorously. In this report we have 
summarized the decision rules described in the health economics literature to 
determine which intervention should be chosen from among multiple treatment 
options for a given disease, using a graphic framework. The implications of 
different means of expressing budget constraints on treatment choice are 
examined.

PMID: 11915971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2002 Jan;12(1):93-109. doi: 
10.1016/s1052-5157(03)00061-8.

Cost-effectiveness of screening the average-risk population for colorectal 
cancer.

Provenzale D(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Outcomes Research Program, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. prove002@mc.duke.edu

This article reviews several of the recent models addressing the 
cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening in the average-risk individual 
(Table 1). How can clinicians and policy makers use this information for 
decision making regarding colorectal cancer screening? The cost-effectiveness 
ratios reported by themselves do not identify cost-effective practices. They 
must be placed in a decision context that is expressed in one of two forms. In 
the first form, an explicit threshold or maximum amount that a policy maker is 
willing to spend is stated (e.g., $40,000 per LY gained, as has been quoted as 
an acceptable amount for a prevention program). In the second form of decision 
context, a list of medical practices and their associated cost-effectiveness 
ratios, also known as a league table (Table 2) is used as a basis for comparison 
with the practice under evaluation (e.g., colorectal cancer screening). The 
practice with the lowest cost-effectiveness ratio is the most cost-effective 
practice on the list. Practices with lower cost-effectiveness ratios are 
considered cost-effective compared with those with higher ratios. Table 2 lists 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for common medical practices. The models 
discussed in this article suggested that colorectal cancer screening using 
annual FOBT, flexible sigmoidoscopy at 3 or 5 years, the combination of FOBT and 
flexible sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, colonoscopy, and even virtual colonoscopy 
had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranging from $6300 to $92,900 per LY 
saved with most of the cost-effectiveness ratio ranging from $10,000 to $40,000 
per LY saved. These ratios are similar to the cost of another widely accepted 
practice, breast cancer screening with annual mammography in women age 50 and 
older ($22,000 per LY gained). Colorectal cancer screening with any of the 
modalities discussed is considered less cost-effective than screening for 
hemochromatosis, which has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $3665 per 
LY saved. Based on these ratios, however, screening for colorectal cancer is 
considered cost-effective compared with cervical cancer screening in women age 
20 and older with pap smear every 3 years, which has an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $250,000 per LY gained. The clinician can use these 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios to evaluate the risks and benefits of 
alternative practices for the individual, and the policy maker with a limited 
health care budget can use these ratios to set priorities for funding based on 
the costs and the expected gains in life expectancy for colorectal cancer 
screening and for alternative health care programs.

DOI: 10.1016/s1052-5157(03)00061-8
PMID: 11916165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Pharmacol Ther. 2001 Nov-Dec;92(2-3):213-30. doi:
10.1016/s0163-7258(01)00171-1.

Electrical and structural remodeling of the failing ventricle.

Armoundas AA(1), Wu R, Juang G, Marbán E, Tomaselli GF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Cardiobiology, Johns Hopkins University, Ross 844, 720 
Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. gtomasel@jhmi.edu

Heart failure (HF) is a complex disease that presents a major public health 
challenge to Western society. The prevalence of HF increases with age in the 
elderly population, and the societal disease burden will increase with 
prolongation of life expectancy. HF is initially characterized by an adaptive 
increase of neurohumoral activation to compensate for reduction of cardiac 
output. This leads to a combination of neurohumoral activation and mechanical 
stress in the failing heart that trigger a cascade of maladaptive electrical and 
structural events that impair both the systolic and diastolic function of the 
heart.

DOI: 10.1016/s0163-7258(01)00171-1
PMID: 11916538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Eur J Cancer. 2002 Mar;38(5):690-5. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00003-5.

A computer program for period analysis of cancer patient survival.

Brenner H(1), Gefeller O, Hakulinen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, German Centre for Research on Ageing, Bergheimer 
Strasse 20, D-69115 Heidelberg, Germany. brenner@dzfa.uni-heidelberg.de

Monitoring of long-term survival rates, which is now routinely performed by many 
cancer registries throughout the world, should be as up-to-date as possible. A 
few years ago, a new method of survival analysis, denoted period analysis, has 
been proposed which provides more up-to-date estimates of long-term survival 
rates than traditional survival analysis by exclusively reflecting the survival 
experience of patients within a recent calendar period. However, application of 
this method has so far been hindered by the lack of pertinent computer programs. 
In this paper, we present a simple and easy-to-use computer program (SAS macro) 
that enables one to carry out period analysis (as well as conventional analysis) 
of both absolute and relative survival rates with the type of data commonly 
available in population-based cancer registries. We illustrate application of 
the program with examples from the nationwide Finnish Cancer Registry.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00003-5
PMID: 11916552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Anesth Analg. 2002 Apr;94(4):815-23, table of contents. doi: 
10.1097/00000539-200204000-00008.

The reduction of preoperative autologous blood donation for primary total hip or 
knee arthroplasty: the effect on subsequent transfusion rates.

Couvret C(1), Tricoche S, Baud A, Dabo B, Buchet S, Palud M, Fusciardi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Surgical Intensive Care, University 
Hospitals of Tours, Trousseau Hospital, Tours, France. 
fusciardi@med.univ-tours.fr

We conducted this quality assurance observational study to examine the effects 
of a change in policy regarding preoperative autologous blood donation (PABD) 
and indications for perioperative blood transfusion in patients undergoing 
primary total hip or knee arthroplasty. Two successive time periods, each 
including 182 successive patients treated by the same medical team and with 
standardized anesthesia, were compared. The first study had the following 
standard transfusion policy: 3 U of PABD collected (n = 119) and liberal 
autologous transfusion (AT). The second study introduced a specific indication 
for PABD, on the basis of estimated red blood cell reserve and a life expectancy 
of more than 10 years; 2 U of PABD was collected (n = 81), and criteria were 
identical for AT and allogeneic transfusion. We mainly compared the incidence of 
AT; allogeneic and overall transfusions; the inclusion, admission, and discharge 
hematocrit values; and the wastage of PABD units. This novel policy increased 
the number of untransfused patients by a factor of 10 (5.5% vs 56.6%) (P < 
0.0001), decreased the number of PABD patients by 30% with a 2.4-fold reduction 
in AT (30% vs 80%) (P < 0.0001), and did not change allogeneic requirements (13% 
vs 15%). Although fewer autologous units were collected (172 vs 426), the 
wastage was higher in Study 2 (46% vs 12%) (P < 0.0001). We conclude that 
incorporation of patients' individual factors improves the efficiency of 
transfusion for total hip and total knee arthroplasty surgeries.
IMPLICATIONS: We compared two transfusion policies for primary total hip or knee 
arthroplasties: first, a standard preoperative autologous donation with a 
liberal autologous transfusion policy; and second, a more restrictive indication 
for autologous donation that was based on patients' individual factors, with 
identical criteria for autologous and allogeneic transfusion. We found that this 
change of policy reduced autologous donation and transfusion with no increase in 
allogeneic transfusion.

DOI: 10.1097/00000539-200204000-00008
PMID: 11916778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. ILAR J. 2002;43(2):100-9. doi: 10.1093/ilar.43.2.100.

Welfare issues of genetically modified animals.

Dennis MB Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.

Genetically engineered animals have opened new frontiers in the study of 
physiology and disease processes. Mutant animals offer more accurate disease 
models and increased precision for pathogenesis and treatment studies. Their use 
offers hope for improved therapy to patients with conditions that currently have 
poor or ineffective treatments. These advantages have fostered an increase in 
studies using mice in recent years, a development viewed with alarm by those who 
oppose the use of animals in research. Scientists point out that the mice are 
replacing more sentient species, such as nonhuman primates, and are increasing 
the quality of research being conducted. They assert that study of genetically 
engineered animals will eventually permit decreases in numbers of animals used 
in research. Nevertheless, the increase in use of genetically altered animals 
presents many challenges in reviewing protocols and providing care. 
Identification and resolution of any welfare problems is a responsibility that 
is shared by institutional animal care and use committee, veterinary, animal 
care, and research staffs. To identify potential welfare concerns, a database 
such as TBASE (<http://tbase.jax.org>) can be searched to learn what has been 
reported for established mutant lines. In addition, newly created lines should 
be monitored by a surveillance system and have phenotype assessment to identify 
the effects of altering the genome. Methods of ensuring welfare can include 
treatment of conditions produced, restriction of gene expression to tissues of 
interest or to certain time periods, and establishment of endpoints for removing 
animals from a study before problems appear.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.43.2.100
PMID: 11917161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2002 Jan-Feb;34(1):38-46. doi:
10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60223-6.

Focus groups on cardiovascular health in rural women: implications for practice.

Krummel DA(1), Humphries D, Tessaro I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, West Virginia University School of 
Medicine, PO Box 9190, Morgantown, WV 26505, USA. dkrummel@hsc.wvu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine rural women's perceptions about cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) prevention and behavior change for cardiovascular health.
DESIGN: A trained moderator and nutritionist (observer) led the groups. The 
discussion guide was developed from the Health Belief Model and Social Cognitive 
Theory. The data were analyzed inductively looking at patterns and themes that 
emerged from the data and deductively looking at relationships from the 
theoretical models.
SUBJECTS: Thirty-four white women participated in six groups: three younger 
(20-40 years; n = 18) and three older (40-55 years; n = 16) groups. Women with 
no more than 13 years of education were recruited by social service providers, 
Extension agents, and church groups.
RESULTS: Rural women were unaware of their personal CVD risks. Common themes 
included the overriding influence of family preferences and cultural food 
patterns on women's food choices and the lack of support for adoption of a 
heart-healthy diet. Self-efficacy for dietary change spanned the continuum from 
no confidence (younger women) to complete empowerment (older women).
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts need to be directed toward providing education and skill 
building for CVD prevention based on a better understanding of women's cultural 
beliefs and life situations. All women believed that dietary choices were 
important for cardiovascular health; however, they lacked the skills for food 
selection and preparation. Family preference and support are key to the adoption 
and maintenance of a heart-healthy eating plan. For interventions, women 
preferred active learning (hands-on experiences) coupled with group classes for 
learning and support. Rural women lacked these resources or access to a 
nutritionist.

DOI: 10.1016/s1499-4046(06)60223-6
PMID: 11917670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2002;19(1):71-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1013853224644.

Is reduced expression of mismatch repair genes MLH1 and MSH2 in patients with 
sporadic colorectal cancer related to their prognosis?

Kruschewski M(1), Noske A, Haier J, Runkel N, Anagnostopoulos Y, Buhr HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Benjamin Franklin, Free University 
of Berlin, Germany. kruschewski@ukbf.fu-berlin.de

The majority of mutations in hereditary nonpolyposis colon carcinoma (HNPCC) 
patients affect the mismatch-repair genes (MMRG) MLHI and MSH2. In addition, 
mutations of these genes were found in about 15% of sporadic colorectal 
carcinomas which appear to be related to microsatellite instability (MSI). 
However, mutations in MMRG were not found in all MSI-positive carcinomas, but 
MMRG mutations may be relevant for the assessment of tumor characteristics and 
patients' prognosis. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between 
expression of MMRG, tumor biology and patients' survival. In 127 patients with 
sporadic colorectal carcinomas and a minimum of 5 years follow-up after curative 
surgery immunohistochemical detection of MLHI and MSH2 was analyzed 
semiquantitatively. Lost expression of MLHI has been found in tumor specimens 
from 10 patients, whereas MSH2 expression was missing in 5 patients. This 
reduced expression did not correlate with tumor stage, lymph node involvement, 
grading or tumor invasion into blood vessels. However, a significant correlation 
was found for lymphovascular invasion (P = 0.02) and localization within the 
colorectum (P = 0.003) in MLH1-negative carcinomas. In addition, although there 
was a clear tendency for longer overall survival (72 vs. 63 months) for patients 
with MLH1-negative carcinomas, significant differences for overall and 
recurrence-free survival were not seen. In conclusion of our results and a 
