critical review of literature, the prognostic importance of the MMR genes in 
sporadic colorectal carcinomas remains controversial.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1013853224644
PMID: 11918085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Med Hypotheses. 2001 Dec;57(6):750-3. doi: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1480.

Centenarian scientists: an unusual cluster newly formed in the 20th century.

Sri Kantha S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Agriculture, Gifu University, Gifu City, Japan. 
kanthass@cc.gifu-u.ac.jp

From biographical data sources on ranking scientists, I was able to identify 35 
centenarians. Among these, only one (Michel Chevereul from France) lived before 
the 20th century. Since the remaining 34 individuals became centenarians only 
from 1965, I propose that centenarian scientists are an unusual cluster, first 
formed in the 20th century. Among these, all except one (Alice Hamilton) were 
men. Six centenarian scientists, including Hamilton, had received professional 
medical training. The nationality ranks of the 34 centenarian scientists 
identified in the 20th century show 26 Americans, 6 British, one German and one 
French. Four of the 26 Americans were immigrants from Europe. At least three 
centenarians, namely Michael Heidelberger, Nathaniel Kleitman and Victor 
Hamburger, belong to the 'Nobel class' category, being pioneers in the 
disciplines of immunochemistry, sleep physiology and neuroembryology 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1480
PMID: 11918440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Value Health. 2002 Mar-Apr;5(2):98-105. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.52102.x.

Automated current health time-trade-off assessments in women's health.

Tosteson AN(1), Kneeland TS, Nease RF, Sumner W.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences, Department of Community and 
Family Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire 03756, USA. 
anna.tosteson@dartmouth.edu

OBJECTIVE: To motivate the role for preference assessment in women's health and 
to report pilot data addressing the performance of automated time-trade-off 
(TTO) valuations of current health, which were developed to estimate 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in the women's health setting.
METHODS: Values for current health relative to perfect health and death were 
assessed using an annual time trade-off (1-year horizon and sleep as the trading 
metaphor), a lifetime time trade-off, and a visual analog scale (VAS). All 
instruments were administered twice within a 12- to 14-day window among a 
convenience sample of 27 women.
RESULTS: Valuation of health was similar for both time trade-offs (mean of 0.95 
for both), but was significantly lower for the VAS (mean of 0.84, Wilcoxon 
signed-rank p-value < 0.001). Reliability using the intraclass correlation 
coefficient was 0.67 +/- 0.09 and 0.75 +/- 0.07 for the annual and lifetime time 
trade-offs, respectively, and 0.89 +/- 0.03 for the VAS. Construct validity was 
supported by consistent trends in time-trade-off utilities across tertiles of 
the Short Form 36 (SF-36) general health subscale (trend test p-value < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Automated time trade-offs for current health provide a promising 
approach for use in women's health studies where impact on QALYs must be 
measured. Natural areas of application include the economic evaluation of 
preventive interventions in postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.52102.x
PMID: 11918825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Am J Surg. 2002 Feb;183(2):160-1. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00859-5.

Surgery for inoperable breast cancer.

Kuerer HM(1), Beahm EK, Swisher SG, Ross MI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Box 444, The University of Texas M. D. 
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has the potential to convert inoperable breast cancer 
into operable disease; however, patients may remain inoperable by the classic 
criteria after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. In such cases, palliative surgical 
therapy to promote comfort and hygiene and to control wound breakdown may need 
to be considered. This report documents this clinical scenario in a patient with 
a large exophytic breast cancer who had a partial response with neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy and required an extended radical mastectomy with extensive 
reconstruction for coverage. The decision to undertake such a surgical procedure 
is complicated when the patient's life expectancy may be extremely limited and 
both patient and treatment team must carefully weigh the risks and potential 
benefits of a highly complex but technically feasible operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(01)00859-5
PMID: 11918881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Can J Clin Pharmacol. 2002 Spring;9(1):5-6.

Will public health survive QALYs?

Heller JG(1).

Author information:
(1)James G Heller Consulting Inc., Toronto, Canada. jgheller@jghcons.com

PMID: 11919640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Hematol J. 2000;1(4):226-34. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200032.

Role of early anthracycline dose-intensity according to expression of 
Philadelphia chromosome/BCR-ABL rearrangements in B-precursor adult acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia.

Bassan R(1), Rohatiner AZ, Lerede T, Di Bona E, Rambaldi A, Pogliani E, Rossi G, 
Fabris P, Morandi S, Casula P, Carter M, Lambertenghi-Deliliers G, Lister TA, 
Barbui T.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedali Riuniti, Largo Barozzi 1, 24100 Bergamo, 
Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The use of anthracycline antibiotics in adult acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) has resulted in an improved outcome to remission induction 
therapy. However,the exact role of these drugs in consolidation therapy is less 
clear, especially in specific ALL subsets.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on the outcome of 
308 patients (median age 35 years, range 13-75) with the most frequent subtype, 
early-B ALL, treated between 1974 and 1998 on eight consecutive protocols. 
Anthracycline-related effects were assessed by evaluating the impact of planned 
anthracycline dose-intensity (A-DI) on long-term outcome. A-DI (in mg/m(2)/week) 
during the first twelve weeks of consolidation therapy was classified as either 
"high" (doxorubicin>20, idarubicin>7) or "low".
RESULTS: Complete remission was achieved in 78% of cases. With a median 
follow-up of 6.5 years, on multivariate analysis, disease-free survival (DFS) 
correlated only with expression of the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome and/or 
associated BCR-ABL rearrangements (Ph/BCR(+)) (P=0.0001) and planned A-DI 
(P<0.0001). On this basis, four major prognostic groups with significantly 
different DFS could be identified: (1) Ph/BCR(-), "high" A-DI (n=102), median 
3.5 years and 41% at five years, respectively; (2) Ph/BCR(-), "low" A-DI (n=64), 
1.3 years and 16%; (3) Ph/BCR(+), "high" A-DI (n=35), 1.7 years and 20%; (4) 
Ph/BCR(+), "low" A-DI (n=39), 0.75 years and 0%. When analyzed separately for 
Ph/BCR(-) (n=166) and Ph/BCR(+) (n=74) patients, the A-DI effect on DFS was 
preserved in the former (P=0.018) whereas, in Ph/BCR(+) patients, only age <50 
years (P=0.004) and blast count <25 x 10(9)/l (P=0.02) correlated with better 
DFS. However, Ph/BCR(+) patients with the best prognostic profile (age <50 years 
and blast count <25 x 10(9)/l; n=21) who were treated on "high" A-DI regimens 
experienced a median DFS of 2.2 years with DFS 21% at five years, compared to 
0.67-1 years and 0-10% in other cases (n=53, P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: A "high" A-DI may act as a positive treatment-related prognostic 
factor in early B-lineage ALL. Although mainly restricted to patients with 
Ph/BCR(-) ALL, A-DI could also influence the outcome in Ph/BCR(+) patients with 
other favorable prognostic factors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200032
PMID: 11920195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Hematol J. 2000;1(6):374-81. doi: 10.1038/sj/thj/6200057.

Autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation with <2 x 10(6) 
CD34(+)/kg: an analysis of variables concerning mobilisation and engraftment.

Villalón L(1), Odriozola J, Laraña JG, Zamora C, Pérez de Oteyza J, Jodra MH, 
López J, Herrera P, Roldán E, Ramos ML, Ramos P, Navarro JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Ctra de Colmenar k.m 9.1, 
28034 Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: This study analyses the factors affecting mobilisation and 
engraftment in autologous peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation 
according to the number of CD34(+) re-infused.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 190 patients underwent mobilisation with G-CSF 
alone (n=113) or in combination with chemotherapy (n=77). A total of 116 
patients (61%) were autografted with <2 x 10(6) CD34(+) cells/kg and 74 patients 
were transplanted with >2 x 10(6) CD34(+) cells/kg. Rates of granulocyte and 
platelet recovery were estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan-Meier 
and compared using a log-rank test. The Cox regression model was used for the 
multivariate analysis of factors influencing engraftment. Differences between 
cohorts were evaluated by one-way ANOVA or Mann-Whitney tests, and multivariate 
analysis was performed using a stepwise lineal regression.
RESULTS: Neutrophil and platelet engraftment was significantly longer with <2 x 
10(6)/CD34(+)/kg (12 vs 10 days, P=0.014 and 16 vs 13 days, P=0.0001 
respectively). Platelet recovery was affected by exposure to alkylating agents 
(P=0.04), refractory disease (P=0.02) and AML (P=0.0001), but only the last two 
variables remained significant in Cox regression (P<0.01). Granulocyte 
engraftment was longer in CML (univariate, P=0.04) and in refractory disease 
(multivariate, P=0.02). In patients re-infused with >2 x 10(6)/CD34(+)/kg, the 
Cox model did not identify prognostic factors for haematopoietic recovery.
CONCLUSION: Although mobilisation schedules and disease status influenced not 
only the yield of progenitor cells, but also the engraftment kinetics, the 
number of CD34(+) re-infused was the main predictor of haematopoietic recovery. 
While engraftment succeeded in most of the cases, the re-infusion of >2 x 
10(6)/CD34(+)/kg resulted in significantly shorter recovery times.

DOI: 10.1038/sj/thj/6200057
PMID: 11920217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2002 Apr;117(4):297-309. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10039.

Deconstructing death in paleodemography.

Konigsberg LW(1), Frankenberg SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, 250 South Stadium Drive, 
Knoxville, TN 37996-0720, USA. lylek@utk.edu

Comment in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Aug;121(4):385-6;author reply 387-8.

Comment on
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Oct;89(2):235-56.
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Apr;99(4):571-83.

In 1992 in this Journal (Konigsberg and Frankenberg [1992] Am. J. Phys. 
Anthropol. 89:235-256), we wrote about the use of maximum likelihood methods for 
the "estimation of age structure in anthropological demography." More 
specifically, we presented a particular method (the "iterated age-length key") 
from the fisheries literature and suggested that the method could be used in 
human and primate demography and paleodemography as well. In our paper (section 
titled "Some Future Directions"), we spelled out two broad areas that we 
expected to see develop over the ensuing years. First, we felt that the use of 
explicit likelihood methods would open up interest in basic estimation issues, 
such as the calculation of standard errors for demographic estimates and the 
formulation of tests for whether samples differed in their demographic 
structure. Second, we felt that the time was ripe for hazards analyses that 
would incorporate the uncertainty in estimation that follows from using age 
"indicators" rather than known ages. While some of these developments have 
occurred during the last decade, few have been reported in the American Journal 
of Physical Anthropology. In this paper we resolve some issues from our 1992 
paper, and attempt to redress this deficit in the literature by reviewing some 
recent developments in paleodemography over the past decade.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10039
PMID: 11920365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Cancer. 2002 Mar 15;94(6):1867-75. doi: 10.1002/cncr.10427.

An estimate of premature cancer mortality in the U.S. due to inadequate doses of 
solar ultraviolet-B radiation.

Grant WB(1).

Author information:
(1)wbgrant@infi.net

BACKGROUND: There are large geographic gradients in mortality rates for a number 
of cancers in the U.S. (e.g., rates are approximately twice as high in the 
northeast compared with the southwest). Risk factors such as diet fail to 
explain this variation. Previous studies have demonstrated that the geographic 
distributions for five types of cancer are related inversely to solar radiation. 
The purpose of the current study was to determine how many types of cancer are 
affected by solar radiation and how many premature deaths from cancer occur due 
to insufficient ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation.
METHODS: UV-B data for July 1992 and cancer mortality rates in the U.S. for 
between 1970-1994 were analyzed in an ecologic study.
RESULTS: The findings of the current study confirm previous results that solar 
UV-B radiation is associated with reduced risk of cancer of the breast, colon, 
ovary, and prostate as well as non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Eight additional 
malignancies were found to exhibit an inverse correlation between mortality 
rates and UV-B radiation: bladder, esophageal, kidney, lung, pancreatic, rectal, 
stomach, and corpus uteri. The annual number of premature deaths from cancer due 
to lower UV-B exposures was 21,700 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 
20,400-23,400) for white Americans, 1400 (95% CI, 1100-1600) for black 
Americans, and 500 (95% CI, 400-600) for Asian Americans and other minorities.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study demonstrate that much of the 
geographic variation in cancer mortality rates in the U.S. can be attributed to 
variations in solar UV-B radiation exposure. Thus, many lives could be extended 
through increased careful exposure to solar UV-B radiation and more safely, 
vitamin D3 supplementation, especially in nonsummer months.

Copyright 2002 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10427
PMID: 11920550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Health Econ. 2002 Mar;11(2):117-27. doi: 10.1002/hec.651.

Testing the convergent validity of the contingent valuation and travel cost 
methods in valuing the benefits of health care.

Clarke PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Institute of Health Sciences, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK. philip@clarke@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

In this study, the convergent validity of the contingent valuation method (CVM) 
and travel cost method (TCM) is tested by comparing estimates of the willingness 
to pay (WTP) for improving access to mammographic screening in rural areas of 
Australia. It is based on a telephone survey of 458 women in 19 towns, in which 
they were asked about their recent screening behaviour and their WTP to have a 
mobile screening unit visit their nearest town. After eliminating missing data 
and other non-usable responses the contingent valuation experiment and travel 
cost model were based on information from 372 and 319 women, respectively. 
Estimates of the maximum WTP for the use of mobile screening units were derived 
using both methods and compared. The highest mean WTP estimated using the TCM 
was $83.10 (95% C.I. $99.06-$68.53), which is significantly less than the 
estimate of $148.09 ($131.13-$166.60) using the CVM. This could be due to the 
CVM estimates also reflecting non-use values such as altruism, or a range of 
potential biases that are known to affect both methods. Further tests of 
validity are required in order to gain a greater understanding of the 
relationship between these two methods of estimating WTP.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.651
PMID: 11921310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Health Econ. 2002 Mar;11(2):129-39. doi: 10.1002/hec.653.

Measuring willingness-to-pay for risk reduction: an application of conjoint 
analysis.

Telser H(1), Zweifel P.

Author information:
(1)Socioeconomic Institute, University of Zurich, Switzerland. 
telser@soi.unizh.ch

This study applies conjoint analysis (CA) to estimate the marginal 
willingness-to-pay (MWTP) of elderly individuals for a reduction of the risk of 
fracture of the femur. The good in question is a hypothetical hip protector 
which lowers the risk of a fracture by different amounts. Other attributes are 
ease of handling, wearing comfort, and out-of-pocket cost, which are traded off 
against risk reduction. In 500 face-to-face interviews, pensioners stated 
whether or not they would buy the product. Results suggest that MWTP for wearing 
comfort exceeds that for risk reduction. Indeed, willingness-to-pay for the 
product as a whole is negative, indicating that it should not be included as a 
mandatory benefit in health insurance.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.653
PMID: 11921311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Health Econ. 2002 Mar;11(2):141-54. doi: 10.1002/hec.649.

Socio-economic health inequalities in Brazil: gender and age effects.

Diaz MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto Campus, SP, 
São Paulo, Brazil. madmdiaz@usp.br

This paper analyses Brazilian socio-economic inequalities in health by measuring 
the concentration indices for the following variables: health expectancy, 
self-assessed health status and chronic health problems. Data used were taken 
from the 1996/1997 Living Standard Measurement Study (LSMS). In summary, as far 
as gender distinction is concerned, the results showed that up to 5 years of age 
the mortality rates, reported appearance of chronic health problems as well as 
the self-assessed health indicated that the boys were in worse health condition 
than the girls. After this age group there was a tendency for differences to 
disappear until adulthood, when the situation changed and the women consistently 
considered themselves less healthy. With reference to the socio-economic 
inequalities, one generally finds larger differences within the women's groups. 
The analysis for the different age groups indicated that the pro-rich 
inequalities increased with age. Both results were clearly proved, especially 
for the health expectancy variable, by adopting an adjustment of the dominance 
concept derived from literature on economic inequalities, consisting of 
comparing concentration curves.

Copyright 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.649
PMID: 11921312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Health Econ. 2002 Mar;11(2):155-63. doi: 10.1002/hec.658.

Obtaining disability weights in rural Burkina Faso using a culturally adapted 
visual analogue scale.

Baltussen RM(1), Sanon M, Sommerfeld J, Würthwein R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Hygiene and Public Health, University of Heidelberg, 
Germany. baltussenr@who.int

Burden of disease (BOD) estimates used to foster local health policy require 
disability weights which represent local preferences for different health 
states. The global burden of disease (GBD) study presumes that disability 
weights are universal and equal across countries and cultures, but this is 
questionable. This indicates the need to measure local disability weights across 
nations and/or cultures. We developed a culturally adapted version of the visual 
analogue scale (VAS) for a setting in rural Burkina Faso. Using an anthropologic 
approach, BOD-relevant health states were translated into culturally meaningful 
disability scenarios. The scaling procedure was adapted using a locally relevant 
scale. Nine hypothetical health states were evaluated by seven panels of in 
total 39 lay individuals and 17 health professionals. Results show that health 
professionals' rankings and valuations of health states matched those of lay 
people to a certain extent. In comparison to that of the lay people, health 
professionals rated seven out of nine health states as slightly to moderately 
less severe. The instrument scored well on inter-panel and test-retest 
reliability and construct validity. Our research shows the feasibility of 
eliciting disability weights in a rural African setting using a culturally 
adapted VAS. Moreover, the results of the present study suggest that it might be 
possible to use health professionals' preferences on disability weights as a 
proxy for lay people's preferences.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.658
PMID: 11921313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Health Econ. 2002 Mar;11(2):175-80. doi: 10.1002/hec.655.

Is there a kink in consumers' threshold value for cost-effectiveness in health 
care?

O'Brien BJ(1), Gertsen K, Willan AR, Faulkner LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ont., Canada. obrienb@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: A reproducible observation is that consumers' willingness-to-accept 
(WTA) monetary compensation to forgo a program is greater than their stated 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) for the same benefit. Several explanations exist, 
including the psychological principle that the utility of losses weighs heavier 
than gains. We sought to quantify the WTP-WTA disparity from published 
literature and explore implications for cost-effectiveness analysis 
accept-reject thresholds in the south-west quadrant of the cost-effectiveness 
plane (less effect, less cost).
METHODS: We reviewed published studies (health and non-health) to estimate the 
ratio of WTA to WTP for the same program benefit for each study and to determine 
if WTA is consistently greater than WTP in the literature.
RESULTS: WTA/WTP ratios were greater than unity for every study we reviewed. The 
ratios ranged from 3.2 to 89.4 for environmental studies (n=7), 1.9 to 6.4 for 
health care studies (n=2), 1.1 to 3.6 for safety studies (n=4) and 1.3 to 2.6 
for experimental studies (n=7).
CONCLUSIONS: Given that WTA is greater than WTP based on individual preferences, 
should not societal preferences used to determine cost-effectiveness thresholds 
reflect this disparity? Current convention in cost-effectiveness analysis is 
that any given accept-rejection criterion (e.g. $50 k/QALY gained) is symmetric 
- a straight line through the origin of the cost-effectiveness plane. The 
WTA-WTP evidence suggests a downward 'kink' through the origin for the 
south-west quadrant, such that the 'selling price' of a QALY is greater than the 
'buying price'. The possibility of 'kinky cost-effectiveness' decision rules and 
the size of the kink merits further exploration.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.655
PMID: 11921315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Health Econ. 2002 Apr;11(3):185-91. doi: 10.1002/hec.706.

On being NICE in the UK: guidelines for technology appraisal for the NHS in 
England and Wales.

Birch S(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont., Canada. birch@mcmaster.ca

DOI: 10.1002/hec.706
PMID: 11921316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Health Econ. 2002 Apr;11(3):233-48. doi: 10.1002/hec.662.

Estimating survival gain for economic evaluations with survival time as 
principal endpoint: a cost-effectiveness analysis of adding early hormonal 
therapy to radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.

Neymark N(1), Adriaenssen I, Gorlia T, Caleo S, Bolla M.

Author information:
(1)EORTC Health Economics Unit, Brussels, Belgium. nne@eortc.be

The problem of estimating expected outcomes for the economic evaluation of 
treatments for which the outcome of principal interest is (quality adjusted) 
survival time has so far not received sufficient attention in the literature. 
The best estimate of expected survival is mean survival time, but with censored 
survival data, the true survival time for all the subjects is not known, so the 
mean is not defined.A possible solution to this estimation problem is 
illustrated by a retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis of the addition of 
hormonal therapy to standard radiotherapy for patients with locally advanced 
prostate cancer. A recently proposed method is used to approach the problem 
caused by censored cost data, and the impact of uncertainty is assessed by 
bootstrap resampling techniques. Mean survival time is estimated by a restricted 
means analysis with the time point of restriction determined by statistical 
criteria. When average total costs and mean survival time is evaluated at this 
time point of restriction, the result is that the combined therapy (radiotherapy 
plus hormonal therapy) increases mean survival time by about 1 year, while 
reducing the costs per patient for the French health insurance system by 12 700 
FF. The time point of restriction may also be determined by other criteria and 
mean survival time may be estimated by extrapolating the survival curves by 
means of various parametric survival distributions. We show that the exact 
results of the economic evaluation are decisively determined by the restriction 
time point chosen and the approach taken to estimate mean survival time.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.662
PMID: 11921320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Health Econ. 2002 Apr;11(3):265-73. doi: 10.1002/hec.665.

Morality and the limits of societal values in health care allocation.

Walker RL(1), Siegel AW.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Values and Society Program and Department of Philosophy, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1003, USA. walkerrl@umich.edu

In this paper, we consider whether there is a clear moral justification for the 
proposal that societal value preferences (SVPs) should be included in Cost 
Effectiveness Analyses (CEA) of health care resource allocations. We argue, 
first, that proponents of the use of SVPs need to be clear about the 
relationship between these values and moral principles. In particular, once 
moral principles are accepted as ruling out some SVPs (such as those that are 
irrational or revealing prejudice), an account is required of why we need to 
appeal to SVPs rather than moral principles to determine a just division of 
health care resources. Secondly, we consider whether an independent moral 
justification might underwrite the use of SVPs. In various places in the 
literature the notions of representation, presumed consent and democratic 
decision making appear to be invoked as candidates for fulfilling this 
justificatory role. We discuss some problems with each of these justifications 
in the hope of eliciting a more comprehensive proposal from the proponents of 
SVPs. We conclude that, although a number of interesting proposals have been 
made, no compelling justification for including SVPs in CEA has yet been 
systematically articulated.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.665
PMID: 11921322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. BMJ. 2002 Mar 30;324(7340):755. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7340.755/b.

Overall health of Hungary's Roma worse than average population.

Kovac C.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.324.7340.755/b
PMCID: PMC1122703
PMID: 11923154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Ann Surg. 2002 Apr;235(4):458-63. doi: 10.1097/00000658-200204000-00002.

Prognostic evaluation of stage B colon cancer patients is improved by an 
adequate lymphadenectomy: results of a secondary analysis of a large scale 
adjuvant trial.

Prandi M(1), Lionetto R, Bini A, Francioni G, Accarpio G, Anfossi A, Ballario E, 
Becchi G, Bonilauri S, Carobbi A, Cavaliere P, Garcea D, Giuliani L, Morziani E, 
Mosca F, Mussa A, Pasqualini M, Poddie D, Tonetti F, Zardo L, Rosso R.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Ospedale Infermi, Rimini, Italy. 
m.prandi@libero.it

OBJECTIVE: To determine if the extent of lymphadenectomy (number of recovered 
lymph nodes) was associated with long-term outcome in patients operated on for 
stage B and C colon cancer.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Lymphatic spreading is the main prognostic indicator in 
colon cancer patients, although the optimal extent of lymphadenectomy and its 
prognostic impact are still unknown.
METHODS: In 3,648 patients (median follow-up 3.6 years) enrolled in two 
consecutive INTACC multicentric trials on adjuvant therapy for colon cancer, we 
studied the association of the number of recovered nodes with overall survival 
and relapse free survival by means of univariate and Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: The worst overall survival was related to ages > 65 (risk ratio [RR] = 
1.30), higher grading (RR = 1.96). Better overall survival was related to female 
gender (RR = 0.80) and to higher number of recovered nodes (8-12 nodes, RR = 
0.46, 13-17 nodes, RR = 0.76, nodes > or = 18, RR = 0.79). The same pattern was 
observed for relapse free survival. Longer overall and relapse free survival 
were related to a higher number of recovered nodes with P =.034 and P =.003 
respectively (stratified analysis for absence or presence of positive nodes). 
Stage B patients with fewer than 7 nodes in the specimen had both shorter 
overall survival (P =.0000) and relapse free survival (P =.0016) than the other 
B patients. Outcome of stage C patients was not related to the number of 
recovered nodes (P =.28 and 0.12 respectively). The interaction test between 
stage of disease and number of recovered nodes was statistically significant (P 
=.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Stage B patients with a small number of examined nodes may be 
understaged. Thus, these patients might be considered for adjuvant therapy 
because of their poorer life expectancy than other stage B patients. For stage C 
patients, the number of recovered nodes does not seem to affect long-term 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-200204000-00002
PMCID: PMC1422459
PMID: 11923600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am Heart J. 2002 Apr;143(4):565-76. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2002.120965.

Cost and cost-effectiveness studies in heart failure research.

Weintraub WS(1), Cole J, Tooley JF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Ga, 
USA. wweintr@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: Heart failure is a major and increasing cause of death and 
disability and accounts for significant resource use. In the United States 
alone, the prevalence is 4.6 million, with an incidence rate of 550,000 new 
cases a year and approximately 957,000 hospitalizations a year.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Methods of evaluating cost and outcome and of comparing 
cost with outcome are reviewed. Economic and cost-effectiveness studies in heart 
failure research, especially those related to clinical trials, are reviewed in 
the therapeutic areas of digoxin, angiotension-converting enzyme inhibition, 
beta blockers, disease management, and transplantation.
CONCLUSION: In an era in which economic constraints on medical resource use 
limit the ability to give all services to all patients, economic studies can 
help guide more rational decision making. Economic studies in heart failure can 
be expected to improve and so help society to make better, more informed 
choices.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2002.120965
PMID: 11923792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Stat Methods Med Res. 2002 Feb;11(1):25-48. doi: 10.1191/0962280202sm269ra.

Simultaneous analysis of quality of life and survival data.

Billingham LJ(1), Abrams KR.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Campaign Trials Unit, Institute for Cancer Studies, Medical 
School, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.

In many phase III clinical trials, particularly in the field of cancer, the 
comparison of treatments is based on both length of survival and quality of 
life. Subjects are followed over time until death and during this period, 
quality of life is assessed on a number of occasions. Simultaneous analysis of 
these two outcomes supplements the comparison of treatments in terms of each 
outcome independently with an assessment of the net effect. In addition, it 
provides a means of accounting for the informative dropout due to death of 
patients within the time frame of the quality of life study. The methods also 
have the potential to be extended to allow for informative dropout from the 
quality of life study prior to death. There are a number of broad approaches for 
the simultaneous analysis of quality of life and survival data. The most widely 
used approach in clinical research is quality-adjusted survival analysis, where 
treatments are compared in terms of a composite measure of quality and quantity 
of life. The paper reviews the different techniques for quality-adjusted 
survival analysis, illustrating the methodology by application to data from a 
phase III clinical trial in pancreatic cancer. In addition, alternative 
approaches using multistate survival analysis and joint modelling methods are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.1191/0962280202sm269ra
PMID: 11923992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2001 Nov;157(11 Pt 2):S152-5.

[Respiratory disorders during sleep in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in French]

Camu W(1).

Author information:
(1)Service Neurologie B, Hôpital Gui de Chauliac, 34295 Montpellier. 
w-camu@chu-montpellier.fr

Amyotropic lateral sclerosis is a severe degenerative disease of the nervous 
system. Progressive death of central and peripheral motor neurons leads to 
rapidly extensive paralysis of the four limbs, the bulbar region and the 
respiratory system. Sleep respiratory disorders is a useful sign to follow in 
these patients. Apnea is generally central rather than obstructive. 
Hypoventilation, particularly during REM sleep has been reported and causes 
nocturnal desaturation. These patients also appear to have a disrupted sleep 
pattern with a longer phase I and a shorter total duration of sleep. These 
nocturnal respiratory disorders observed in amyotropic lateral sclerosis are 
similar to those observed in muscle diseases. Management must however be 
undertaken very early in these patients because outcome can be rapidly fatal 
after the development of significant desaturation. Nasal ventilation can improve 
not only quality of life but also life expectancy for these patients.

PMID: 11924030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2002 Mar;84(2):227-31. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.84b2.12443.

Survival analysis of human meniscal transplantations.

van Arkel ER(1), de Boer HH.

Author information:
(1)Atrium Medical Centre, Heerlen, The Netherlands.

We describe a prospective survival analysis of 63 consecutive meniscal 
allografts transplanted into 57 patients. The lateral meniscus was transplanted 
in 34, the medial meniscus in 17, and both menisci (combined) in the same knee 
in six. For survival analysis we used persistent pain or mechanical damage as 
clinical criteria of failure. A total of 13 allografts failed (5 lateral, 7 
medial, 1 medial and lateral). A significant negative correlation (p = 0.003) 
was found between rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and successful 
meniscal transplantation. A significant difference (p = 0.004) in the clinical 
results was found between lateral and medial meniscal transplants. The 
cumulative survival rate of the lateral, medial and combined allografts in the 
same knee, based on the life-table method and the Kaplan-Meier calculation, was 
76%, 50% and 67%, respectively. The survival of medial meniscal allografts may 
improve when reconstruction of the ACL is carried out at the same time as 
meniscal transplantation in an ACL-deficient knee.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.84b2.12443
PMID: 11924652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Hum Reprod. 2002 Apr;17(4):940-4. doi: 10.1093/humrep/17.4.940.

Cumulative delivery rates after ICSI in women aged >37 years.

Osmanagaoglu K(1), Tournaye H, Kolibianakis E, Camus M, Van Steirteghem A, 
Devroey P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproductive Medicine, Dutch-speaking Brussels Free University, 
Laarbeeklaan 101, B 1090 Brussels, Belgium. osmanagaoglu@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Female patients aged >37 years have a poor prognosis after ICSI. To 
determine the cumulative delivery rates in these women by life-table analysis, 
228 patients aged >37 years who had undergone a total of 437 ICSI cycles were 
analysed retrospectively.
METHODS: Only cycles in which fresh ejaculated sperm was used, and in which at 
least one oocyte was micro-injected, were analysed. The main outcome measure was 
cumulative rate of deliveries. Any delivery after 25 weeks gestation was 
included in the study.
RESULTS: In women aged 38-39 years, the real cumulative delivery rate after two 
cycles was 21%, while the expected delivery rate was 26%. In patients aged 40-43 
years, the real and expected cumulative delivery rates were 12 and 17% 
respectively after three cycles, when they reached a plateau. There was only one 
delivery in the age group >43 years, which consisted of 26 patients with 66 
cycles. In women aged >37 years, an expected cumulative delivery rate of 30% may 
be obtained at the end of the fourth cycle. Women aged >43 years do not have a 
realistic chance of achieving a delivery with their own oocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: This life-table analysis provides a means by which to counsel 
couples about their chances of achieving a delivery by ICSI at an age >37 years.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/17.4.940
PMID: 11925386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. World J Gastroenterol. 2002 Apr;8(2):193-9. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v8.i2.193.

The prognostic significance of clinical and pathological features in 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Qin LX(1), Tang ZY.

Author information:
(1)Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan Hospital, 136 Yi Xue Yuan Road, Shanghai 
200032, China.

The prognosis of patients with HCC still remains dismal. The life expectancy of 
HCC patients is hard to predict because of the high possibility of postoperative 
recurrence. Many factors, such as patient's general conditions, macroscopic 
tumor morphology, as well as tumor histopathology features, have been proven of 
prognostic significance. Female HCC patient often has a better prognosis than 
male patient, which might be due to the receptor of sex hormones. Younger 
patients often have tumors with higher invasiveness and metastatic potentials, 
and their survival and prognosis are worse than the older ones. Co-existing 
hepatitis status and hepatic functional reserve have been confirmed as risk 
factors for recurrence. Serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is useful not only for 
diagnosis, but also as a prognostic indicator for HCC patients. AFP mRNA has 
been proposed as a predictive marker of HCC cells disseminated into the 
circulation and for metastatic recurrence. Many pathologic features, such as 
tumor size, number, capsule state, cell differentiation, venous invasion, 
intrahepatic spreading, and advanced pTNM stage, are the best-established risk 
factors for recurrence and important aspects affecting the prognosis of patients 
with HCC. Marked inflammatory cell infiltration in the tumor could predict a 
better prognosis. Clinical stage is still the most important factor influencing 
on the prognosis. Extratumor spreading and lymph nodal metastasis are 
independent predictors for poor outcome. Some new predictive systems have 
recently been proposed. Different strategies of treatment might have significant 
different effects on the patients' prognosis. To date, surgical resection is 
still the only potentially curative treatment for HCC, including localized 
postoperative recurrences. Extent of resection, blood transfusion, occlusion of 
porta hepatis, and blood loss affect the survival and prognosis of HCC patients. 
Regional therapies provide alternative ways to improve the prognosis of HCC 
patients who have no opportunity to receive surgical treatment or postoperative 
recurrence. The combination of these treatment modalities is hopeful to further 
improve the prognosis. The efficacies of neoadjuvant (preoperative) or adjuvant 
(postoperative) chemotherapy or chemoembolization in preventing recurrence and 
on the HCC prognosis still remain great controversy, and deserve further 
evaluation. Biotherapy, including IFN-alpha therapy, will play more important 
role in preventing recurrence and metastasis of HCC after operation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v8.i2.193
PMCID: PMC4658349
PMID: 11925590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Acta Chir Belg. 2002 Feb;102(1):59-62. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2002.11679266.

Successful iterative drainage and partial hepatectomy for pyogenic liver abscess 
in a HIV seropositive patient.

Vanderveken OM(1), Colebunders RL, Collier I, Vandevenne JE, Hubens G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Medicine, University Hospital Antwerp, Belgium.

The case of cryptogenic Escherichia coli pyogenic liver abscess in a 59-year-old 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) seropositive man is reported. The initial 
treatment was a percutaneous drainage. As the abscess did not reduce in size, 
surgical drainage was planned but during surgery a necrosectomy had to be 
performed resulting in a partial hepatectomy. After nine months of 
amoxicillin-clavulanic acid treatment, drainage and highly active antiretroviral 
therapy, the patient recovered completely. It is expected that because of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy, mortality rates of surgical interventions in 
patients with HIV infection will decrease. Because of the increased life 
expectancy in persons with HIV infection, the criteria for considering surgical 
interventions in these patients should be broadened.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2002.11679266
PMID: 11925743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2002;152(3-4):52-6. doi:
10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.01123.x.

[Epidemiology of dementia].

[Article in German]

Wancata J(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Psychiatrie, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Wien. 
johannes.wancata@akh-wien.ac.at

Because of the increasing life expectancy during the next decades the number of 
demented will steeply rise. The estimated number of people suffering from 
dementia in Austria will increase from 90,500 persons in the year 2000 to 
233,800 persons in the year 2050. During the same period the estimated number of 
those developing a dementia within one year will rise from 23,600 to 59,500. In 
contrast, in the next five decades, the population being in an employable age 
will decrease to 77%. Thus, the proportion of demented in relation to employable 
people will considerably increase. While in year 2000 there were 56 employable 
persons per one demented person, in the year 2050 there will be only 17 
employable persons per one demented person. Dementing disorders are a main 
reason for being admitted to nursing homes. In Austrian nursing homes 63.5% of 
those newly admitted suffer from dementia. Despite of the fact that a large 
proportion of dementia sufferers are being cared in nursing homes, the majority 
lives in their private households supported by their family members. Relatives 
of demented persons experience a large amount of burden, and need more 
professional help than is available today. The costs of dementing disorders are 
high and a large proportion is paid by the patients family. In the future, in 
Austria more specialized day care facilities for the demented and more nursing 
homes are necessary.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.01123.x
PMID: 11925771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2002;152(3-4):57-61. doi:
10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.01124.x.

[Differential diagnosis of dementia].

[Article in German]

Dal-Bianco P(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Neurologie, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Wien. 
Peter.Dal-Bianco@univie.ac.at

Owing to the progress of individual life expectancy, the number of demented 
people will clearly increase in the next decades. Cognitive impairment refers 
not only to dementia, but also to mild cognitive impairment (MCI), associated 
with reduced complex daily activity and decreased quality of live. It may, in 
many cases (10-15% per year) progress to permanent dementia. The most frequent 
aetiologies of dementia syndromes are the Alzheimer's Disease (AD), vascular 
Dementia (VD), the combination of both and Lewy-Body-Disease. Primarily 
neuro-psychiatric and internal medical reasons for cognitive decline have also 
to be taken into account for rational treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.01124.x
PMID: 11925772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Ann Trop Paediatr. 2002 Mar;22(1):25-32. doi: 10.1179/027249302125000120.

The impact of neonatal mortality on subsequent survival in rural Ethiopia.

Andersson T(1), Berhane Y, Wall S, Högberg U.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Public Health & Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, 901 85 Umeå, 
Sweden. tobias.andersson@epiph.umu.se

In countries where most deliveries occur at home and most available information 
is hospital-based, accurate information on neonatal mortality is difficult to 
obtain. This study was conducted in a rural community in Ethiopia that has been 
under monthly demographic surveillance since 1987. The analysis in this paper 
was based on data collected in the 1st decade (1987-96) and this database was 
used to calculate mortality incidence rates and analyse survival. The overall 
neonatal mortality rate was 27/1000 live births (95% CI 24.5-29.5). The rates in 
the early and late neonatal periods were 20 and 8/1000 live births, respectively 
(95% CIs 18.0-22.9 and 6.6-9.4). The mortality incidence rates show that, every 
day, three of every 1000 newborns die in their 1st week of life. Neonatal 
mortality accounted for 43% of infant mortality. If all neonates survived the 
1st week of life, life expectancy would increase by 1 year. Increased risk of 
neonatal mortality was found to be associated with living in a rural lowland 
area, twin births and male gender. This paper also addresses the need for 
further identification of the complex environmental and behavioural risk factors 
for neonatal mortality and for instituting appropriate and affordable 
interventions to reduce neonatal mortality.

DOI: 10.1179/027249302125000120
PMID: 11926046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Comp Med. 2001 Feb;51(1):49-55.

The Charles River "hairless" rat mutation is distinct from the hairless mouse 
alleles.

Panteleyev AA(1), Christiano AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, 
USA.

The Charles River (CR) "hairless" rat is one of the autosomal recessive 
hypotrichotic animal models actively studied in pharmacologic and dermatologic 
research. Despite its widespread use, the molecular basis of this monogenic 
mutation remains unknown, and the skin histologic features of this phenotype 
have never been described. However, the designation "hairless" has been used as 
an extension of the hairless mouse (hr) nomenclature on the basis of the 
clinical absence of hairs in both phenotypes. We present a description of the 
histopathologic changes in heterozygous and homozygous CR hairless rat mutants 
during the first month of life. The postnatal homozygous rat skin was 
characterized by abnormal keratinization of the hair shaft and formation of a 
thick and dense layer of corneocytes in the lower portion of the epidermal 
stratum corneum. This layer prevented the improperly keratinized hair shaft from 
penetrating the skin surface. Starting from the latest stages of hair follicle 
(HF) development, obvious signs of HF degeneration were observed in homozygous 
skin. This process was extremely rapid, and by day 12, mainly atrophic HFs with 
abnormal or broken hairs were present in the skin. Therefore, the mutation in 
the CR rat abrogates cell proliferation in the hair matrix and affects 
keratinocyte differentiation in the HF and interfollicular epidermis, a 
phenotype that is completely distinct from hr/hr. To test whether the CR rat 
harbored a mutation in the hr gene, we analyzed the coding region of this gene 
and consensus intron splice site sequences in mutant rats and found no mutation, 
further supporting phenotypic evidence that the hairless phenotype in CR rats is 
not allelic with hairless. Finally, using intragenic polymorphisms, we were able 
to exclude homozygosity at the hairless locus by use of genotypic analysis. 
Thus, morphologic analysis of successive stages of phenotype development in the 
CR hairless rat, together with definitive molecular studies, indicate that this 
mutation may be unique among the other hypotrichotic rat mutations.

PMID: 11926302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Rehabil Res Dev. 2002 Jan-Feb;39(1):95-103.

Personal characteristics that influence exercise behavior of older adults.

Boyette LW(1), Lloyd A, Boyette JE, Watkins E, Furbush L, Dunbar SB, Brandon LJ.

Author information:
(1)Atlanta VA Medical Center, Rehabilitation Research & Development Center, GA, 
USA. Lisazac3212@yahoo.com

Long-term exercise participation among older adults will result in healthier 
lifestyles and reduced need for health care. A better understanding, therefore, 
of what influences older individuals to start and maintain exercise plans would 
be beneficial. The twofold purpose of this study was (1) to create a knowledge 
base of determinants that influence exercise behavior in older adults and (2) to 
have health professionals prioritize determinants that affect exercise 
initiation and adherence in older adults. The expert panel examined nine 
determinants within the category of personal characteristics: age, gender, 
ethnicity, occupation, educational level, socioeconomic status, biomedical 
status, smoking status, and past exercise participation. The experts rated the 
determinants on importance for influencing exercise behavior of older adults. 
This expert panel concluded that older adults who are in good health and have a 
history of exercise activity might be more likely to participate in long-term 
exercise programs.

PMID: 11926331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Can J Nurs Res. 2001 Jun;33(1):59-64.
