
Willingness-to-pay (WTP): the new-old kid on the economic evaluation block.

Gafni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

PMID: 11928155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nutr Hosp. 2002 Feb;17 Suppl 1:7-16.

[Benefits, efficacy, and risk associated with the conventional treatment of 
obesity: should we treat the weight excess?].

[Article in Spanish]

Salas i Salvadó J(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Nutrición, Hospital Universitari de Sant Joan de Reus, Universitat 
Rovira i Virgili, Reus, España. jss@fmcs.urv.es

The literature contains a large number of published articles indicating a strong 
relationship between obesity and morbidity-mortality due to different cause. 
There are also various short- to medium-term studies demonstrating the benefits 
of a moderate weight loss on the control of obesity-related risk factors. 
Nonetheless, very few studies have attempted to define the potential medium- to 
long-term morbidity/mortality benefits associated with weight loss using 
conventional obesity treatment methods. This review attempts to weigh up the 
benefits and also the risks associated with the methods currently recognized for 
the treatment of this pathology. We also attempt to analyze the efficacy of 
these methods for controlling body weight in the medium and long term, as this 
is essential when it comes to advising the obese population.

PMID: 11928540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2001 Sep;106(3):867-73.

[Evaluation of the burden of diabetes in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Kissimova-Skarbek K(1), Pach D, Płaczkiewicz E, Szurkowska M, Szybiński Z.

Author information:
(1)Instytut Zdrowia Publicznego CM UJ w Krakowie.

Burden of diabetes in terms of economic costs and life years lost due to 
premature deaths and disability in Poland is analyzed. This study calculates 
direct costs of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in Poland in 1998 and burden of 
diabetes in terms of years of life lost using Disability Adjusted Life Years 
(DALYs) measure within the Polish Multicenter Study of Diabetes Epidemiology 
(1998-1999). There is a consequent need to evaluate the burden of diabetes for 
the society and to develop affordable and cost-effective preventing strategies. 
The burden of diabetes is examined in terms of resources used by diabetic 
patients and time lost due to premature deaths and disability caused by 
diabetes. The profile of "a standard patient" (type 1 and type 2 diabetes) 
resource utilization is created using patient survey in Krakow. This includes 
main elements of cost associated with prevention, diagnosis and treatment: 
ambulatory care (visits); hospital care (bed/days and dialysis sessions); 
pharmaceuticals (goods consumed) and diagnosis (tests). This study calculates 
direct costs to the health sector of type 1 and type 2 diabetes in Poland 1998. 
Burden of diabetes in Poland in terms of time lost in 1998 is expressed in 
Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) unit of measurement. DALY is a 
combination of two dimensions: YLL--number of years lost due to premature 
mortality; YLD--loss of healthy years due to disability caused by diabetes (with 
and without complications). The incidence approach is applied for the YLD caused 
by diabetes type 1 calculations by gender and age groups (0-29 years). Incidence 
rates are obtained from the prospective data collection [1, 2]. Other data as 
average age of onset, average duration of the disease (with or without 
complications), severity (age specific disability weight for treated or 
untreated forms of diabetes--with or without complications) are obtained from 
the GBD study for the Formerly Socialist Economies of Europe [9]. Discounting 
and age weighting procedure is applied. The prevalence approach is applied for 
YLD caused by diabetes type 2 calculations for treated and untreated forms of 
diabetes (with and without complications) by gender and age groups (35 years and 
more). Prevalence data are obtained from the Polish Multicenter Study on 
Diabetes Epidemiology. Age specific disability weights for treated or untreated 
forms of diabetes (with or without complication) are obtained from the GBD study 
for the Formerly Socialist Economies. Discounting procedure is not applied 
(duration of the disease is assumed 1 year). Years of Life Lost are calculated 
using Polish mortality data and life expectancy at the time of death in 1998. 
Cost of diabetes study is particularly useful in indicating the magnitude of the 
costs involved, which tend to be much higher than perceived by the general 
public. In 1998 the average diabetes type 1 patient's costs were 6.4 times and 
diabetes type 2 patient's costs 3 times higher than average public direct health 
care costs. The total costs of diabetes in Poland 1998 accounted for 9.3% of 
total public health care expenditures. The cost of diabetic patient's estimation 
indicates the potential benefits of effective medical interventions. Not only 
mortality rates should be taken into consideration in the creation of health 
policy and financial planning. Disability of the population is also an important 
factor, particularly in diseases which do not lead to fatalities. In 1998 
112,584 DALYs (46% for males and 54% for females) were lost in Poland due to 
premature deaths and disability caused by diabetes. 72% of the total was due to 
disability. Secondary prevention is very important especially for diabetes type 
2 patients. 95% of total time lost due to disability is caused by diabetes type 
2. National burden of disease evaluation is helpful to develop a justifiable 
basis for setting priorities in purchasing and investing at central and local 
levels especially in prevention.

PMID: 11928598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Perit Dial Int. 2002 Jan-Feb;22(1):39-47.

Comparison of hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis--a cost-utility analysis.

Sennfält K(1), Magnusson M, Carlsson P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Sweden. 
karin.sennfalt@ihm.liu.se

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to compare both health-related quality of life and costs 
for hemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis (PD) in a defined population.
DESIGN: Decision-tree modeling to estimate total costs and effects for two 
treatment strategies, HD and PD, among patients with chronic kidney failure, for 
5 years following the start of treatment. Courses of events and health-care 
consumption were mapped in a retrospective matched-record study. Data on health 
status were obtained from a matched population by a quality-of-life 
questionnaire (EuroQol). The study has a societal perspective.
SETTING: All dialysis departments in the southeastern health-care region of 
Sweden.
PATIENTS: 136 patients with kidney failure, comprising 68 matched pairs, were 
included in a retrospective record study; 81 patients with kidney failure, 
comprising 27 matched triplets, were included in a prospective questionnaire 
study.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per life year and cost per quality-adjusted life 
year.
RESULTS: The cost per quality-adjusted life year for PD was lower in all 
analyzed age groups. There was a 12% difference in the age group 21-40 years, a 
31% difference in the age group 41-60 years, and an 11% difference in the age 
group 61+ years. Peritoneal dialysis and HD resulted in similar frequencies of 
transplantation (50% and 41%, respectively) and expected survival (3.58 years 
and 3.56 years, respectively) during the first 5 years after the initiation of 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: The cost-utility ratio is most favorable for PD as the primary 
method of treatment for patients eligible for both PD and HD.

PMID: 11929142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Perit Dial Int. 2002 Jan-Feb;22(1):91-3.

Low peritonitis rate leads to high patient survival and technique success: the 
first five years of a peritoneal dialysis program.

Mastrosimone S, Virga G, Gastaldon F, da PA, Bonadonna A.

PMID: 11929152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(3):183-94. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220030-00004.

Development of an economic model to assess the cost effectiveness of asthma 
management strategies.

Price MJ(1), Briggs AH.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Outcomes, GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development, Greenford, 
Middlesex, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(11):789.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Asthma is a chronic-episodic disease characterised by 
acute, symptomatic episodes of varying severity. We developed a Markov model 
that can be used to estimate the cost effectiveness of alternative asthma 
treatments. Because of the costs they incur, asthma exacerbations ('attacks') 
requiring intervention by a healthcare professional were a central consideration 
in the development of the model.
METHODS: Treatment success was assessed as asthma control, a composite measure 
based on goals defined in world-wide asthma management guidelines and in terms 
of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The data from which the transition 
probabilities were derived came from patients with asthma who received either 
salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination (SFC) 50/100microg or fluticasone 
propionate (FP) 100microg, administered twice daily via an inhaler, in a 
12-week, randomised, double-blind, clinical trial. Costs were estimated from 
resource profiles defined for each of the model states. A key aspect of the 
model was the use of probabilistic sensitivity analysis techniques to examine 
the uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness results. Distributions were fitted to 
transition probabilities and to cost input parameters and values were sampled at 
random from these distributions using a second order Monte Carlo simulation 
technique. This produced a distribution for incremental cost effectiveness that 
was employed to construct 95% uncertainty intervals and to construct cost 
effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: In this analysis, the model was run over a 12-week period using 
transition probabilities derived from the trial data. The results showed that 
treatment with SFC resulted in a higher proportion of successfully controlled 
weeks per patient than treatment with FP (66 vs 47%), and higher mean weekly 
direct asthma management costs (pound sterling 15.77 vs pound sterling 11.83; 
2000 values). The average incremental cost per successfully controlled week with 
SFC was pound sterling 20.83. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the 
95% uncertainty intervals for the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was - 
pound sterling 64.94 to pound sterling 112.66. In approximately 25% of cases, 
SFC was dominant (more effective and less costly), but in the remaining cases, 
it was both more effective and more costly. It was shown that if decision makers 
are willing to pay approximately pound sterling 45 for an additional 
successfully controlled week, SFC will be the more cost-effective strategy in 
this patient population for 80% of the time.
CONCLUSIONS: This is one of the first decision-analytic models of asthma to 
incorporate probabilistic sensitivity analysis techniques to explore 
uncertainty. The model's flexible yet standardised framework permits the cost 
effectiveness of alternative asthma management strategies in different 
healthcare settings to be established.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220030-00004
PMID: 11929348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2002 Feb;36(1):60-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1614.2002.00984.x.

Deinstitutionalization for long-term mental illness: a 6-year evaluation.

Hobbs C(1), Newton L, Tennant C, Rosen A, Tribe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, The University of Sydney, Royal North 
Shore Hospital, St Leonards, New South Wales 2065, Australia. 
chob9793@mail.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Forty-seven patients with long-term mental illness were transferred 
to the community following the closure of a psychiatric hospital in Sydney. This 
6-year evaluation is an extension of a detailed clinical, ethnographic and 
economic study of the initial 2-years of community transition.
METHOD: Quantitative evaluation was conducted using the Brief Psychiatric Rating 
Scale, Life Skills Profile, Social Behaviour Scale, Montgomery Asberg Depression 
Rating Scale and Quality Of Life measures. Assessments were completed prior to 
discharge and at two- and 6-year intervals following community transfer. 
Repeated measures analysis was utilized to determine changes in outcome 
variables over time. The residents' perception of 6-years of community living 
was explored in qualitative semistructured interviews. Details of accommodation, 
level of care, readmissions, incidents and medication were also documented.
RESULTS: During the 6 years following community relocation a total of seven 
residents returned to hospital for long-term care, three residents died from 
medical causes and one resident required detention in a corrective services 
facility. The 36 residents who remained in the community at the 6-year follow-up 
no longer required intensive 24-h supervision. Living semi-independently, 23 
residents resided in two to three person accommodation with either daily or 
weekly case manager visits. Clinically, community residents remained stable over 
the 6 years without significant changes in psychiatric symptoms, depression, 
living skills or social behaviour problems. Clinical stability was achieved with 
significant reduction in medication levels over the 6 years. Community-based 
residents continued to experience improved quality of life and reported their 
marked preference for living in the community.
CONCLUSION: The residents maintained community tenure with significant 
improvement in quality of life and a reduction in medication, supported by a 
mental health system with adequate community resources. Issues regarding 
continuing rehabilitation and social integration need to be addressed. Further 
deinstitutionalization will require 24-h supervision for most initially and for 
some on a continuing basis. An ageing population will require specific age 
related medical and psychiatric services.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1614.2002.00984.x
PMID: 11929439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Gen Intern Med. 2002 Mar;17(3):193-202. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.10636.x.

Optimal strategy for the first episode of primary spontaneous pneumothorax in 
young men. A decision analysis.

Morimoto T(1), Fukui T, Koyama H, Noguchi Y, Shimbo T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) is not uncommon in young men 
and is associated with frequent recurrence. The frequent recurrence after 
conservative treatment and resultant anxiety for recurrence are sources of 
disability. We explored which procedure is more appropriate as the initial 
therapy in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE).
DESIGN: Decision analysis using a Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: Structured literature review for clinical probability. Utility 
derived from patients and medical staff using time trade-off method.
SETTING: Hypothetical cohort.
PATIENTS: Twenty-year-old men with a first episode of PSP for which simple 
aspiration was ineffective.
INTERVENTIONS: One of the following treatment options: 1) thoracoscopic surgery, 
2) pleural drainage followed by thoracoscopic surgery for recurrence, 3) pleural 
drainage followed by thoracoscopic surgery for the second recurrence, 4) 
pleurodesis followed by thoracoscopic surgery for recurrence, 5) pleurodesis 
followed by thoracoscopic surgery for the second recurrence, 6) pleural drainage 
followed by pleurodesis for the first recurrence and thoracoscopic surgery for 
the second recurrence.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: During the 1-year period after one of the initial 
treatments, the QALE was 9.49 months for thoracoscopic surgery, 9.47 for 
pleurodesis, and 7.80-7.99 for pleural drainage. The QALE for thoracoscopic 
surgery was the longest among the 6 strategies during the period from 5 to 24 
months. None of the variables in sensitivity analyses altered the main results 
except for thoracoscopic surgical death rate. When it exceeds 0.3%, pleurodesis 
becomes the preferred strategy.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of the current best available data and patients' 
preference, thoracoscopic surgery can be considered the treatment of choice for 
the first episode of PSP.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.10636.x
PMCID: PMC1495024
PMID: 11929505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. J Gen Intern Med. 2002 Mar;17(3):235-7. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.20110.x.

Economic analyses and clinical practice guidelines: why not a match made in 
heaven?

Ramsey SD.

Comment on
    J Gen Intern Med. 2002 Mar;17(3):210-20.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.20110.x
PMCID: PMC1495017
PMID: 11929511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Cancer Res. 2002 Apr 1;62(7):2131-40.

Suppression of Rac activity induces apoptosis of human glioma cells but not 
normal human astrocytes.

Senger DL(1), Tudan C, Guiot MC, Mazzoni IE, Molenkamp G, LeBlanc R, Antel J, 
Olivier A, Snipes GJ, Kaplan DR.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Research Centre, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal, 
Canada H3A 2B4.

Tumors of glial origin such as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) comprise the 
majority of human brain tumors. Patients with GBM have a very poor survival 
rate, with an average life expectancy of <1 year. We asked whether we could 
identify a survival pathway in high-grade glioma and oligodendroglioma cells 
that when suppressed, would induce apoptosis of these tumor cells but not of 
normal human adult astrocytes. To identify these pathways, we selectively 
suppressed the activity of a number of proteins (Ras, Rac1, Akt1, RhoA, c-jun, 
and MEK1/2) hypothesized to play roles in cell survival. We found that 
suppression of Rac1, a small GTP-binding protein, inhibited survival and 
produced apoptosis in three human glioma cell lines (U87, U343, and U373). Serum 
induced the activity of Rac1 and the activity or phosphorylation state of 
p21-activated kinase 1 and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), two intracellular 
targets of Rac1. Suppression of Rac1 also induced apoptosis in 19 of 21 
short-term cultures of human primary cells from grades II and III 
oligodendroglioma and grade IV glioblastoma that varied in p53, epidermal growth 
factor receptor, epidermal growth factor receptor vIII, MDM2, and p16/p19 
mutational or amplification status. In contrast, inhibition of Rac1 activity did 
not induce apoptosis of normal primary human adult astrocytes. In both 
established glioma cell lines and primary glioma cells, apoptosis induced by the 
inhibition of Rac was partially rescued by activated mitogen-activated protein 
kinase kinase 1, an activator of JNK, suggesting that JNK functions downstream 
of Rac1 in glioma cells. These results indicate that Rac1 regulates a major 
survival pathway in most glioma cells, and that suppression of Rac1 activity 
stimulates the death of virtually all glioma cells, regardless of their 
mutational status. Agents that suppress Rac1 activity may therefore be useful 
therapeutic treatments for malignant gliomas.

PMID: 11929835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2002 Jan;6(1):3-10.

Rifapentine and isoniazid in the continuation phase of a 6-month regimen. Final 
report at 5 years: prognostic value of various measures.

Tam CM(1), Chan SL, Kam KM, Goodall RL, Mitchison DA.

Author information:
(1)Wanchai Polyclinic, Hong Kong.

Comment in
    Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2002 Jan;6(1):1-2.

SETTING: Clinical trial in 672 patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary 
tuberculosis in Hong Kong. After an initial 2 months of a four-drug intensive 
phase consisting of thrice-weekly streptomycin, isoniazid, rifampicin and 
pyrazinamide (SHRZ), a random allocation was made to a continuation phase of 
once-weekly 600 mg rifapentine + 15 mg/kg isoniazid (HRp1), HRp1 given in 2 of 
every 3 weeks (HRp1.2/3), or to thrice-weekly isoniazid + rifampicin (HR3), the 
standard treatment in Hong Kong.
OBJECTIVE: Final report evaluating adverse events (46 relapses and one failure) 
after 5 years and the prognostic influence of various factors.
METHODS: Kaplan-Meier analysis of adverse events and Cox proportional hazards 
analysis of prognostic factors.
RESULTS: The two rifapentine regimens, HRp1 and HRp1.2/3 had similar final rates 
of adverse events of 10.8% and 11.7%, respectively, compared to 4.2% for the HR3 
regimen (P = 0.02 and 0.009, respectively). In the initial univariate 
proportional hazards analysis, adverse events were significantly related to the 
regimen, age, sex, pretreatment radiographic extent of disease and cavitation, 
and also to sputum culture at 2 months. In the final multivariate analysis, 
after step-wise removal of non-significant factors, adverse events were related 
only to the regimen, patients' sex and pretreatment radiographic extent of 
disease. Elderly male patients were more at risk of an adverse event, as were 
those with more severe disease. Adverse events occurred at life table rates of 
9.0% in patients with drug-sensitive strains and in 8.9% of those with initially 
isoniazid-resistant organisms at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The two rifapentine regimens were unsatisfactory because of their 
high incidence of adverse events. Isoniazid appeared not to contribute to 
preventing relapse. Further studies with increased rifapentine dosage are 
necessary.

PMID: 11931398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Hum Biol. 2002 Feb;74(1):111-28. doi: 10.1353/hub.2002.0004.

The impact of labor-saving technology on first birth intervals in rural 
Ethiopia.

Gibson M(1), Mace R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University College London, UK.

Across the developing world labor-saving technologies introduce considerable 
savings in the time and energy that women allocate to work. Hormonal studies on 
natural fertility populations indicate that such a reduction in energetic 
expenditure (rather than improved nutritional status alone) can lead to 
increased ovarian function. Other qualitative studies have highlighted a link 
between labor-saving technology and behavioral changes affecting subsequent age 
at marriage, which may affect fertility. This biodemographic study was designed 
to investigate whether these physiological and behavioral changes affect 
fertility at a population level by focusing on a recent water development scheme 
in Southern Ethiopia. The demographic consequences of a reduction in women's 
workload following the installation of water points, specifically the variation 
in length of first birth interval (time lapsed between marriage and first 
birth), are investigated. First birth interval length is closely associated with 
lifetime fertility in populations that do not practice contraception, longer 
intervals being associated with lower fertility. Using life tables and 
multivariate hazard modeling techniques a number of significant predictors of 
first birth interval length are identified. Covariates such as age at marriage, 
season of marriage, village ecology, and access to improved water supply have 
significant effects on variation in first birth intervals. When entered into 
models as a time-varying covariate, access to a water tap stand is associated 
with an immediate reduction in length of first birth intervals.

DOI: 10.1353/hub.2002.0004
PMID: 11931573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. N Engl J Med. 2002 Apr 4;346(14):1061-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa012528.

Understanding the treatment preferences of seriously ill patients.

Fried TR(1), Bradley EH, Towle VR, Allore H.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, West Haven Veterans Affairs Connecticut 
Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, USA. terri.fried@yale.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Apr 4;346(14):1087-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 15;347(7):533-5; author reply 533-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 15;347(7):533-5; author reply 533-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 15;347(7):533-5; author reply 533-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 15;347(7):533-5; author reply 533-5.

BACKGROUND: The questions patients are asked about their preferences with regard 
to life-sustaining treatment usually focus on specific interventions, but the 
outcomes of treatment and their likelihood affect patients' preferences.
METHODS: We administered a questionnaire about treatment preferences to 226 
persons who were 60 years of age or older and who had a limited life expectancy 
due to cancer, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. The study participants were asked whether they would want to receive a 
given treatment, first when the outcome was known with certainty and then with 
different likelihoods of an adverse outcome. The outcome without treatment was 
specified as death from the underlying disease.
RESULTS: The burden of treatment (i.e., the length of the hospital stay, extent 
of testing, and invasiveness of interventions), the outcome, and the likelihood 
of the outcome all influenced treatment preferences. For a low-burden treatment 
with the restoration of current health, 98.7 percent of participants said they 
would choose to receive the treatment (rather than not receive it and die), but 
11.2 percent of these participants would not choose the treatment if it had a 
high burden. If the outcome was survival but with severe functional impairment 
or cognitive impairment, 74.4 percent and 88.8 percent of these participants, 
respectively, would not choose treatment. The number of participants who said 
they would choose treatment declined as the likelihood of an adverse outcome 
increased, with fewer participants choosing treatment when the possible outcome 
was functional or cognitive impairment than when it was death. Preferences did 
not differ according to the primary diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Advance care planning should take into account patients' attitudes 
toward the burden of treatment, the possible outcomes, and their likelihood. The 
likelihood of adverse functional and cognitive outcomes of treatment requires 
explicit consideration.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa012528
PMID: 11932474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Apr;35(4):666-71. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121572.

Expansion rates and outcomes for the 3.0-cm to the 3.9-cm infrarenal abdominal 
aortic aneurysm.

Santilli SM(1), Littooy FN, Cambria RA, Rapp JH, Tretinyak AS, d'Audiffret AC, 
Kuskowski MA, Roethle ST, Tomczak CM, Krupski WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Minneapolis VAMC and the University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, 55417, USA. santi002@tc.umn.edu

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2003 Mar;37(3):700.

OBJECTIVE: This study was performed for the determination of the expansion rates 
and outcomes and for recommendations for the surveillance of the 3.0-cm to 
3.9-cm abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
DESIGN: The study was observational with data from patients screened with 
ultrasound scanning for AAA at five Veterans Affairs Medical Centers for 
enrollment in the Aneurysm Detection and Management Trial. The eligibility 
requirements included: AAA from 3.0 cm to 3.9 cm in diameter and at least one 
repeat ultrasound scan more than 90 days after the initial screening. Patients 
also completed a questionnaire for demographic data and the determination of the 
presence of risk factors associated with AAA. The study endpoints included: 1, 
both mean and median expansion rates; 2, moderate expansion (>4 mm/year); 3, no 
expansion; 4, all causes of death; 5, AAA rupture; 6, expansion to 4 cm or more; 
7, expansion to 5.0 cm or more; and 8, operative repair.
RESULTS: Ultrasound scan screening results identified 1445 patients with 3.0-cm 
to 3.9-cm AAAs. Seven hundred ninety men met the ultrasound scan criterion of 
having at least two ultrasound scan studies during the study period, and these 
790 men were used for this study. Mean AAA size was 3.3 cm, with an average 
follow-up period of 3.89 +/- 1.93 years. The median expansion rate was 0.11 
cm/year. Expansion rates were significantly different (P <.001) between 3.0-cm 
and 3.4-cm cm AAA and 3.5-cm and 3.9-cm AAA. There were no reported AAA ruptures 
during the study period, although cause of death data were available in only 43% 
of the patients. Few 3.0-cm to 3.9-cm AAAs expanded to 5.0 cm or more during the 
study period. The patients with 3.0-cm to 3.9-cm AAAs who underwent operative 
repair during the study period were younger, had larger initial AAA diameters, 
and had more rapid expansion rates.
CONCLUSION: AAAs of 3.0 cm to 3.9 cm expanded slowly, did not rupture, and 
rarely had operative repair or expanded to more than 5.0 cm in our study of male 
patients. Expansion rates and the incidence rate of operative repair are more 
common in the 3.5-cm to 3.9-cm AAA when compared with the 3.0-cm to 3.4-cm AAA.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121572
PMID: 11932660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Apr;35(4):691-3. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121750.

Safety and efficacy of femoral-based hemodialysis access grafts.

Tashjian DB(1), Lipkowitz GS, Madden RL, Kaufman JL, Rhee SW, Berman J, Norris 
M, McCall J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplant Surgery, Baystate Medical Center, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, MA 01199, USA. DBTASH@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: Arteriovenous fistulae traditionally have been placed in the upper 
extremity. Experience with groin hemodialysis access has been discouraging 
because of high infection rates and associated limb amputation. We reviewed our 
experience with angioaccess grafts in the groin to assess safety and viability 
in our hemodialysis patient population.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of all groin hemodialysis access 
grafts placed at a single tertiary care center between June 1990 and February 
1998. Demographics, complications, and subsequent treatment were recorded. Graft 
patency and infection rates were analyzed with life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Data were collected on 73 graft insertions. A total of 52 episodes of 
thrombosis occurred in 26 grafts. Primary patency rate was 71% at 1 year. 
Secondary patency rate was 83% at 1 year. There was a 22% incidence rate of 
infection.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the incidence rate of infection and thrombosis in 
our series of femoral-based hemodialysis grafts is comparable with rates 
reported in the literature for upper extremity polytetrafluoroethylene 
angioaccess grafts. Although not considered a first choice, femoral artery-based 
hemodialysis access is a viable option when arteriovenous fistulae in the upper 
extremity cannot be constructed.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121750
PMID: 11932664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Apr;35(4):723-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121128.

Recurrence of chronic venous ulcers on the basis of clinical, etiologic, 
anatomic, and pathophysiologic criteria and air plethysmography.

McDaniel HB(1), Marston WA, Farber MA, Mendes RR, Owens LV, Young ML, Daniel PF, 
Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine, 27599, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Leg ulcers associated with chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) 
frequently recur after healing. The risk of recurrence has not been well defined 
for patients in different anatomic and hemodynamic groups. We reviewed the risk 
of ulcer recurrence on the basis of clinical, etiologic, anatomic, and 
pathophysiologic criteria and hemodynamic characteristics of the affected limb 
as assessed with air plethysmography (APG).
METHODS: Ninety-nine limbs with class 6 CVI were assessed clinically and with 
standing duplex ultrasound scanning and APG for the definition of clinical, 
etiologic, anatomic, and pathophysiologic criteria. Leg ulcers were treated with 
high-pressure compression protocols. Surgical correction of venous abnormalities 
was offered to patients with appropriate conditions. After ulcer healing, the 
limbs were placed in compressive garments and followed at 6-month intervals for 
ulcer recurrence.
RESULTS: The mean patient age was 54.3 years, and 46% of the patients were 
female. Corrective venous surgery was performed in 37 limbs. The mean follow-up 
time for all 99 limbs was 28 months. The ulcer recurrence rate with life table 
was 37% +/- 6% at 3 years and 48% +/- 10% at 5 years. The patients who underwent 
venous surgery had a significantly lower recurrence rate (27% +/- 9% at 48 
months) than did those patients who had not undergone surgery (67% +/- 8% at 48 
months; P =.005). The patients with deep venous insufficiency (DVI; n = 51) had 
significantly higher recurrence rates (66% +/- 8% at 48 months) than did the 
patients without DVI (n = 48; 29% +/- 9% at 48 months; P =.006). This difference 
was significant even after accounting for the effects of surgery (P =.03). The 
hazard ratio of ulcer recurrence increases by 14% for every unit increase in the 
venous filling index (VFI; P =.001). This remains significant even after 
accounting for the effects of surgery (P =.001). The combination of DVI and a 
VFI of more than 4 mL/s yields a risk of ulcer recurrence of 43% +/- 9% at 1 
year and 60% +/- 10% at 2 years.
CONCLUSION: Leg ulcers associated with CVI have a high rate of recurrence. Ulcer 
recurrence is significantly increased in patients with DVI and in patients who 
do not have venous abnormalities corrected surgically. The VFI obtained from APG 
is useful in the prediction of increased risk for recurrence, particularly in 
association with anatomic data.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121128
PMID: 11932670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Wound Care. 2002 Mar;11(3):84. doi: 10.12968/jowc.2002.11.3.26677.

Is there a role for sustainable medicine in wound care?

Cavicchioli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Azienda USL di Modena, Italy. a.cavicchioli@ausl.mo.it

Is it ethical to prolong life by providing aggressive palliative care to 
chronically ill patients with a short life expectancy? Here, Andrea Cavicchioli 
argues that epidemiology studies can help us to resolve this difficult ethical 
dilemma.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2002.11.3.26677
PMID: 11933729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Presse Med. 2002 Mar 16;31(10):446-8.

[Futility in geriatric medicine, a real issue].

[Article in French]

Laszlo A, Pautex S.

Is futility age related? Several studies clearly demonstrate that outcome in 
critically ill elderly patients admitted to an intensive care unit, is more 
closely related to severity of illness than to age, which has little influence 
on prognosis. The outcome is closely associated with the severity of the 
illness, and age is of little influence. However, age based discrimination 
persists despite current recommendations from medical societies that age should 
not be used as a criteria for admission to intensive care. The concept of 
medical futility is influenced by individual or collective subjective values. 
Very old patients often are excluded from studies. It is difficult to apply 
evidence-based medicine in older people as results must be extrapolated from 
data in younger subjects. Thus, the true benefit of treatment is difficult to 
assess in the elderly. The image of the older patient, as perceived by younger 
health care professionals and society has a considerable impact on medical care. 
Medical futility is often based on clinical concepts which may lead to legal 
policies. It is influenced by social and economic factors. Health care 
professionals have a crucial role but their position, in close proximity to the 
patient, and its resulting emotional burden can be uncomfortable. In geriatric 
medicine, there is a special relationship between patients, relatives, and 
health professionals which requires genuine communication in order to optimise 
patients case. In conclusion, a balanced approach that avoids both overtreatment 
and therapeutic nihilism is important in order to provide old patients the best 
possible care.

PMID: 11933746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Milbank Q. 2002;80(1):155-74. doi: 10.1111/1468-0009.00006.

Extending life: scientific prospects and political obstacles.

Miller RA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, USA. millerr@umich.edu

Aging can be slowed in laboratory rodents by low-calorie diets, and changes in 
single genes can extend mouse life span by 40 percent or more. Therefore, 
despite its surface complexity and effects on multiple cells and intercellular 
systems, aging in mammals might also be retarded by both genetic and nongenetic 
means. If human aging could be slowed pharmacologically to the extent now 
possible in rodents, the effect on healthy life expectancy would exceed that of 
abolishing cancer, cardiovascular disease, and adult-onset diabetes. Why, then, 
is research on the biological control of aging and longevity poorly funded and 
shunned by both most scientists and those setting national research priorities? 
Economic disincentives, disease-specific lobby groups, scientific careerism, and 
ineffective nostrums, together with gerontologiphobia, must be overcome before 
such research can improve public health.

DOI: 10.1111/1468-0009.00006
PMCID: PMC2690099
PMID: 11933792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Versicherungsmedizin. 2002 Mar 1;54(1):38; author reply 38-9.

[Comment on C. Sieger: High life expectancy--a risk?].

[Article in German]

Mertz DP.

Comment on
    Versicherungsmedizin. 2001 Sep 1;53(3):107-8.

PMID: 11933866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. First Things. 2001 May;(113):17-24.

L'Chaim and its limits: why not immortality?

Kass LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Committee on Social Thought and the College, University of Chicago, USA.

PMID: 11933947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Eur Respir J. 2002 Mar;19(3):464-8. doi: 10.1183/09031936.02.00231802.

Regular follow-up after curative resection of nonsmall cell lung cancer: a real 
benefit for patients?

Egermann U(1), Jaeggi K, Habicht JM, Perruchoud AP, Dalquen P, Solèr M.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Internal Medicine, Institute of Pathology, University Hospital, 
Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2002 Oct;20(4):1065-6.

Even though complete resection is regarded as the only curative treatment for 
nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC), >50% of resected patients die from a 
recurrence or a second primary tumour of the lung within 5 yrs. It remains 
unclear, whether follow-up in these patients is cost-effective and whether it 
can improve the outcome due to early detection of recurrent tumour. The benefit 
of regular follow-up in a consecutive series of 563 patients, who had undergone 
potentially curative resection for NSCLC at the University Hospital, was 
analysed. The follow-up consisted of clinical visits and chest radiography 
according to a standard protocol for up to 10 yrs. Survival rates were estimated 
using the Kaplan-Meier analysis method and the cost-effectiveness of the 
follow-up programme was assessed. A total of 23 patients (6.4% of the group with 
lobectomy) underwent further operation with curative intent for a second 
pulmonary malignancy. The regular follow-up over a 10-yr period provided the 
chance for a second curative treatment to 3.8% of all patients. The calculated 
costs per life-yr gained were 90,000 Swiss Francs. The cost-effectiveness of the 
follow-up protocol was far above those of comparable large-scale surveillance 
programmes. Based on these data, the intensity and duration of the follow-up was 
reduced.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.02.00231802
PMID: 11936523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Mayo Clin Proc. 2002 Apr;77(4):371-83. doi: 10.4065/77.4.371.

Methods to explain the clinical significance of health status measures.

Guyatt GH(1), Osoba D, Wu AW, Wyrwich KW, Norman GR; Clinical Significance 
Consensus Meeting Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University 
and Health Sciences Center, Hamilton, Ontario.

One can classify ways to establish the interpretability of quality-of-life 
measures as anchor based or distribution based. Anchor-based measures require an 
independent standard or anchor that is itself interpretable and at least 
moderately correlated with the instrument being explored. One can further 
classify anchor-based approaches into population-focused and individual-focused 
measures. Population-focused approaches are analogous to construct validation 
and rely on multiple anchors that frame an individual's response in terms of the 
entire population (eg, a group of patients with a score of 40 has a mortality of 
20%). Anchors for population-based approaches include status on a single item, 
diagnosis, symptoms, disease severity, and response to treatment. 
Individual-focused approaches are analogous to criterion validation. These 
methods, which rely on a single anchor and establish a minimum important 
difference in change in score, require 2 steps. The first step establishes the 
smallest change in score that patients consider, on average, to be important 
(the minimum important difference). The second step estimates the proportion of 
patients who have achieved that minimum important difference. Anchors for the 
individual-focused approach include global ratings of change within patients and 
global ratings of differences between patients. Distribution-based methods rely 
on expressing an effect in terms of the underlying distribution of results. 
Investigators may express effects in terms of between-person standard deviation 
units, within-person standard deviation units, and the standard error of 
measurement. No single approach to interpretability is perfect. Use of multiple 
strategies is likely to enhance the interpretability of any particular 
instrument.

DOI: 10.4065/77.4.371
PMID: 11936935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Radiother Oncol. 2002 Feb;62(2):227-31. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(01)00495-9.

A cost-minimising analysis of standard radiotherapy and two experimental 
therapies in glioblastoma.

Johannesen TB(1), Norum J, Lote K, Scheie D, Hirschberg H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Accelerated radiotherapy (ART) and intracavity 
brachytherapy (ICBT) have been introduced in the primary treatment of 
glioblastoma. Our objective was to determine total treatment costs, 
hospitalisation time, and treatment outcome in these two experimental therapies 
compared to standard treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the time period 1985 to 1st May 1999, a total of 174 
patients with histologically confirmed glioblastoma multiforme were given 
postoperative radiotherapy according to three different treatment schedules at 
three different time intervals. A conventional regime of external radiotherapy 
(54Gy/30 fractions) was given to 58 patients (group I), 75 patients were treated 
with ART (48Gy/twice daily 30 fractions) (group II), and 41 patients were given 
ICBT (60Gy/ten fractions) (group III). Treatment costs including surgery, 
hospital stay, hospital hotel stay, and radiotherapy were calculated.
RESULTS: The total mean costs employing the three treatment alternatives were 
calculated to $25,618 (group I), $23,442 (group II), and $14,534 (group III). 
Total mean stay in hospital for the whole primary treatment was 48.8, 41.6, and 
19 days for groups I, II, and III respectively. Median survival figures were 16, 
14, and 13 months for groups I, II, and III, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The total cost of postoperative radiotherapy in glioblastoma is 
comparable to other health care services. ART did not improve the total 
treatment cost or influence the need for hospitalisation compared to standard 
treatment. ICBT seemed to have economic benefits with less need for 
hospitalisation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(01)00495-9
PMID: 11937250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2002;4(1):16-26. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00147.x.

Clinical and radiographic evaluation of the 5-mm diameter regular-platform 
Brånemark fixture: 2- to 5-year follow-up.

Tawil G(1), Mawla M, Gottlow J.

Author information:
(1)St. Joseph University, Beirut, Lebanon. gtawil@inco.com.lb

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report the clinical results obtained 
with 5-mm diameter regular-platform Brånemark implants after 2 to 5 years of 
follow-up. A secondary aim was to compare the clinical outcome to that of 
adjacently placed standard 3.75-mm fixtures in the same patients under the same 
operative condition and in the same prosthetic construction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty patients, with a mean age of 54 years, received a 
total of 97.5-mm diameter regular-platform fixtures. The majority of the 
implants were placed at molar sites. In 41 of the patients, 53.5-mm diameter 
implants were placed adjacent to 62 standard 3.75-mm diameter fixtures in the 
same prosthetic reconstruction. All implants were submerged for an average 
period of 4 to 6 months. Abutment connection was done according to standard 
protocol. The prosthetic treatment consisted of freestanding fixed bridges.
RESULTS: The cumulative survival rate of the 5-mm diameter implants loaded for a 
period of 2 to 5 years was 96.9%. Only three implants failed. They were placed 
in type 4 bone in the posterior maxilla. Bone loss over the first year was 0.70 
mm and over a 3-year period 0.81 mm. Implants placed in type 4 bone showed 
significantly higher bone loss. No difference in the resorption rate could be 
found between the maxillary and the mandibular implants or between the various 
implant lengths. There was no significant difference between the bone loss 
around the 5-mm diameter fixtures and the adjacent 3.75-mm diameter standard 
fixtures.
CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrated a high predictability of 5-mm 
diameter regular-platform implants when placed in the posterior maxilla and 
mandible.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00147.x
PMID: 11938634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Wei Sheng Yan Jiu. 1999 Mar 30;28(2):125-7.

[Healthy life years(HeaLY): a new indicator for measuring the burden of 
diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Pang L(1), Xu Q, Jin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, North China Coal Medical College, Tangshan 
063000, China.

Healthy life years(HeaLY) is a new indicator for measuring the burden of 
diseases. The data of Beijing MONICA were analyzed and reevaluated by using this 
indicator, and were compared with another indicator, disability adjusted life 
years (DALY), for the burden of diseases provided by WHO and World Bank several 
years ago.

PMID: 11939002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Health Econ. 2002 Mar;21(2):181-95. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00116-3.

QALYs, standard gambles, and the expected budget constraint.

Blomqvist A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada. 
akeb@uwo.ca

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2002 Jan;21(1):169-75; discussion 177-8.

This paper shows that when quality adjustment factors for use in constructing 
QALY indices are established through answers to standard-gamble questions or 
similar methods, the assumptions that are made by respondents about the 
financial consequences of changing probabilities of illness and death are 
critically important for the use of QALYs in cost-utility analysis (CUA). It 
qualifies Meltzer's [Journal of Health Economics 16 (1997) 33] result that the 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for life-saving medical interventions 
should include the future consumption of those who would otherwise not have 
survived, by showing that its validity depends on how the QALY index has been 
established. The paper also shows that, contrary to a widely held notion, 
allocation of a fixed health care budget through CUA does not generally result 
in a second-best efficient allocation. Another finding is that failure to 
specify carefully what respondents to standard-gamble questions are supposed to 
assume about the financial consequences of ill health may result in a bias 
against providing care to older individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00116-3
PMID: 11939237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Health Econ. 2002 Mar;21(2):271-92. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00130-8.

The estimation of a preference-based measure of health from the SF-36.

Brazier J(1), Roberts J, Deverill M.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK. j.e.brazier@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper reports on the findings of a study to derive a preference-based 
measure of health from the SF-36 for use in economic evaluation. The SF-36 was 
revised into a six-dimensional health state classification called the SF-6D. A 
sample of 249 states defined by the SF-6D have been valued by a representative 
sample of 611 members of the UK general population, using standard gamble. 
Models are estimated for predicting health state valuations for all 18,000 
states defined by the SF-6D. The econometric modelling had to cope with the 
hierarchical nature of the data and its skewed distribution. The recommended 
models have produced significant coefficients for levels of the SF-6D, which are 
robust across model specification. However, there are concerns with some 
inconsistent estimates and over prediction of the value of the poorest health 
states. These problems must be weighed against the rich descriptive ability of 
the SF-6D, and the potential application of these models to existing and future 
SF-36 data set.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00130-8
PMID: 11939242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. J Public Health Med. 2002 Mar;24(1):11-5. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/24.1.11.

Philosophy of public health: lessons from its history in England.

Tatara K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Osaka University Medical School, Suita City, 
Japan. tatara@pbhel.med.osaka-u.acjp

In a modern industrialized society it was essential for humankind to be 
protected by a strong medical presence, to establish a uniform system for public 
health everywhere in that society, to make public health independent from the 
welfare system, and to harmonize the relationship between personal hygienic 
rules and local authority rules. The society in Japan has developed on the basis 
of those four philosophical principles of public health, and has enabled the 
people to have the longest life expectancy in the world. However, the public 
health system in this society is now in a critical situation resulting from the 
long life expectancy. How can we rebuild the role of public health in this 
country? A society with a long life expectancy has to face a wide variety of 
health conditions. However, the health insurance system in Japan does not 
generally provide any service for a patient without specific symptoms. 
Consequently, to help people become aware of their own health condition, 
comprehensive public services such as general health check-ups, screening for 
cancers, and health counselling have been established locally by all 3250 
