municipal authorities. In promoting those services, people must learn how to 
draw the boundary-line between 'public' and 'private' in affairs of health to 
understand the importance of 'hygienic rules based on counsels for personal 
self-government', as Simon suggested 100 years ago, and health professionals 
must develop a public health system which depends not only on regulatory laws 
but also on scientific findings, as Rumsey advocated 150 years ago.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/24.1.11
PMID: 11939375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2002 Feb 25;768(1):167-75.
doi:  10.1016/s0378-4347(01)00496-0.

Use of the hummel and dreyer method for the study of nucleotide binding on 
chloroplast ATPase CF1.

Berger G(1), Girault G.

Author information:
(1)Section de Bioenergétique, DBCM, CEA Saclay, Gif sur Yvette, France.

The study of the binding of the nucleotides ADP and ATP on the exchangeable 
sites of chloroplast ATPase CF1 has been carried out by the Hummel and Dreyer 
method applied to HPLC. It has been shown that this method was well fitted to 
the problem: rapidity of exchange, absence of noticeable modification after 
binding, presence of a constant concentration of ligand during the 
chromatography, which stabilizes these low affinity complexes. The dissociation 
constants of binding of ADP, ATP and of their magnesium salt complexes have been 
determined. In order to measure the simultaneous binding of ADP and ATP when 
present in mixture, we have modified the method by using an anion-exchange 
column in place of the gel filtration column: the two nucleotides were easily 
separated, while the binding on the protein was unchanged. The extension of this 
method to the reversed-phase chromatography could also be considered for the 
binding of hydrophobic ligands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4347(01)00496-0
PMID: 11939550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2002 May;51(3):153-62. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-002-0266-6. Epub 2002 Mar 19.

Folate targeting of haptens to cancer cell surfaces mediates immunotherapy of 
syngeneic murine tumors.

Lu Y(1), Low PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, 1393 Brown Building, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

A variety of human cancers overexpress a cell surface receptor with high 
affinity for the vitamin, folic acid ( K(d) approximately 10(-10)M). Covalent 
attachment of therapeutic agents to folic acid has been shown to allow efficient 
targeting of the folate-drug conjugates to folate receptor-expressing cancer 
cells, with little or no uptake by normal tissues except the kidneys. We report 
here the use of folate's ability to deliver attached molecules specifically to 
cancer cells to convert poorly immunogenic tumors into highly immunogenic tissue 
targets. By linking folic acid to a model hapten, we have been able to decorate 
folate receptor-expressing cancer cell surfaces with >10(6) haptens/cell in 
vivo. Following marking of such cells with haptens, the cells are observed to 
become opsonized with autologous anti-hapten antibodies, which is presumed to 
mediate cell removal via antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). 
Supplemental administration of low levels of ADCC-activating cytokines [e.g. 
interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha)] has been shown to 
synergize with the folate-targeted immunotherapy. Thus, using M109 syngeneic 
lung cancer cells injected intraperitoneally into Balb/c mice that were 
previously immunized against fluorescein, a significant extension of life span 
is observed following treatment with folate-fluorescein conjugates, and complete 
cures are observed upon supplementation with moderate levels of IL-2 and 
IFN-alpha. Because control tumor-bearing mice treated with the same cytokines 
but with non-targeted fluorescein show no extension of life span, we conclude 
that tumor-specific opsonization is an essential step in this immunotherapy. 
Finally, because the anti-fluorescein antibodies are unable to access the folate 
receptors on the apical membranes of the kidney proximal tubules, no kidney or 
other normal tissue cytotoxicity is observed. These data suggest that 
retargeting of haptens to folate receptor-expressing cancers might constitute a 
method for mobilizing the immune system specifically against poorly immunogenic 
tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-002-0266-6
PMID: 11941454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Soins Gerontol. 2002 Mar-Apr;(34):45-7.

[Medical strategies. Longevity and old age, scientific and medical aspects].

[Article in French]

Solignac M.

PMID: 11942061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Rev Med Liege. 2002 Feb;57(2):97-103.

[Evaluation of tetanus vaccine coverage in rural society].

[Article in French]

Montrieux C(1), Collette G, Limme C, Seidel L, Albert A, Giet D.

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine Générale, Université de Liège.

The Liège University Department of General Practice and the Association of the 
General Practitioners of Sprimont (Belgian municipality) have jointly drawn up a 
study protocol named "Evaluation of anti-tetanus cover in rural society". The 
aim of this epidemiological search program was to answer the 2 following 
questions: What is the status of anti-tetanus cover among the rural population, 
according to age, sex and social classes? Is vaccine protection influenced by 
leisure activities (sport practice, gardening and animal farming at a small 
scale)? We received 790 answers out of 960 forms sent in a at random selected 
population (82.3%). A sampling classification has been done by the general 
practitioners, who have determined 3 categories of patients: unprotected 
patients (no vaccination for the last 10 years), patients in the process of 
vaccination, protected patients. Protected patients represent 51.8% of the 
population. Surprisingly enough, more than 45% of that rural population are not 
protected. This study clearly shows that two factors highly influence the 
vaccination cover against tetanus: age (elderly are less protected) and sex 
(women are always less protected than men). It also emerges from our analysis 
that the nature of the population's professional activities does not influence 
the protection rate. In contrast, leisure activities seem to have a favourable 
impact on the vaccination rate, sport leading to a better protection for both 
sexes. It is also true in the case of gardening practice, frequent in rural 
environment. We must then be careful to reach optimal vaccination among a 
population with an increasing life expectancy, therefore with more and more 
elderly people, and we must be careful with vaccination among females, presently 
less protected. The role of the family doctor is paramount to carry out that 
mission.

PMID: 11942185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Am J Surg. 2002 Mar;183(3):292-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(02)00782-1.

Surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with inferior vena cava tumor 
thrombus.

Kaplan S(1), Ekici S, Doğan R, Demircin M, Ozen H, Paşaoğlu I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey. skaplan@bir.net.tr

BACKGROUND: The successful excision of a renal cell carcinoma (RCC) invading the 
inferior vena cava (IVC) remains a technical intraoperative challenge and 
requires a careful preoperative surgical management planning. Although a radical 
operation remains the mainstay of the therapy for RCC, the optimal management of 
the patients with RCC causing IVC tumor thrombus remains unresolved. In this 
study, we reviewed our experience in this group of patients and herein report 
the results.
METHODS: Between July 1990 and August 1998, 11 patients with RCC with IVC tumor 
thrombus underwent surgical treatment. The mean patient age was 54.2 years and 
the male to female ratio was 1.75. The cephalad extension of the tumor was 
suprarenal in all cases, being infrahepatic in 6 patients, intrahepatic in 2, 
and suprahepatic with right atrial extension in 3 patients. All tumors were 
resected via inferior vena cava isolation and, when necessary, extended hepatic 
mobilization and Pringle maneuver, with primary or patch closure of vena 
cavotomy. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest 
(DHCA) were used in 3 patients.
RESULTS: The mortality rate was 9.1% (1 patient was lost on the 11th 
postoperative day). Complications occurred in 3 patients. The remaining 10 
patients (90.9%) could be successfully discharged from hospital. Two of them 
were lost during follow-up because of tumor progression at the 43rd and 54th 
postoperative months. The 10-year Kaplan-Meier survival estimate was 71.4%, with 
a mean follow-up of 4.6 years. The presence of lymph node metastases and 
perinephric spread seemed to possess an adverse effect on the survival. Although 
the groups included small numbers of patients, there was no significant 
difference in survival in regard to the different levels of tumor thrombus 
extension into the vena cava.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment is the preferred approach to patients with RCC 
and IVC tumor thrombi as it provides markedly better results when compared with 
the other therapeutical modalities. We believe that complete surgical excision 
of the tumor and the resulting thrombus with appropriate preoperative staging 
and a well-planned surgical approach, using CPB and DHCA when necessary, provide 
an acceptable long-term survival with a good quality of life expectation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(02)00782-1
PMID: 11943130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Lancet. 2002 Mar 30;359(9312):1145-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08164-3.

Population, environment, disease, and survival: past patterns, uncertain 
futures.

McMichael AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian National 
University, 0200, Canberra ACT, Australia. tony.mcmichael@anu.edu.au

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 May 11;359(9318):1702.

Societies are exploring what sustainable development means for development 
choices. Increasingly, we recognise that human population health is not just an 
input to socioeconomic development, but is an essential outcome, and, over time, 
a marker of sustainability. There has been recent attention to how stocks of 
social and human capital precondition gains in population health. However, 
recognition of how environmental change can limit health and survival has been 
slower. Over many millennia, disease and longevity profiles in populations have 
reflected changes in environmental conditions and, often, excedances of carrying 
capacity. Today, population growth and the aggregated pressures of consumption 
and emissions are beginning to impair various global environmental systems. The 
research tasks in detecting, attributing, and projecting the resultant health 
effects are complex. Have recent health gains, in part, depended on depleting 
natural environmental capital? Population health sciences have a crucial 
contribution to make to the sustainability project.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08164-3
PMID: 11943282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Control Clin Trials. 2002 Apr;23(2):143-56. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(01)00197-0.

Quality assurance of asthma clinical trials.

Malmstrom K(1), Peszek I, Al Botto, Lu S, Enright PL, Reiss TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Immunology, Merck Research Laboratories, PO Box 2000, 
Rahway, NJ 07065, USA. kerstin_malmstrom@merck.com

Accuracy and repeatability of spirometry measurements are essential to obtain 
reliable efficacy data in randomized asthma clinical trials. We report our 
experience with a centralized spirometry quality assurance program that we 
implemented in our phase III asthma trials. Six asthma trials of 4 to 21 weeks 
in duration were conducted at 232 clinical centers in 31 countries. 
Approximately 23,100 prebronchodilator and 13,700 postbronchodilator spirometry 
tests were collected from 2523 adult and 336 pediatric asthmatic patients. The 
program used a standard spirometer (the Renaissance spirometry system) with 
maneuver quality messages and automated quality grading of the spirometry tests. 
Each clinical center transmitted spirometry data weekly to a central database, 
where uniform monitoring of data quality was performed and feedback was provided 
in weekly quality reports. Seventy-nine percent of all patients performed 
spirometry sessions with quality that either met or exceeded American Thoracic 
Society standards and improved over time. Good-quality spirometry was associated 
with (1) less severe asthma; (2) active treatment; (3) infrequent nocturnal 
awakenings; (4) age above 15 years; and (5) low body weight. Maneuver-induced 
bronchospasm was rare. Good-quality spirometry was observed in multicenter 
asthma clinical trials that employed a standard spirometer and continuous 
monitoring. Both within- and between-patient variability decreased. Spirometry 
quality improved with time as study participants and technicians gained 
experience.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(01)00197-0
PMID: 11943441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Obes Res. 2002 Apr;10(4):291-5. doi: 10.1038/oby.2002.40.

Modeling the impact of adjustable gastric banding on survival in patients with 
morbid obesity.

Sendi P(1), Palmer AJ, Hauri P, Craig BA, Horber FF.

Author information:
(1)Medical Informatics and Technology Assessment Research Group, Baar, 
Switzerland. psendi@swissonline.ch

OBJECTIVE: Morbid obesity is associated with premature death. Adjustable gastric 
banding may lead to substantial weight loss in patients with morbid obesity. 
Little is known about the impact of weight loss on survival after adjustable 
gastric banding. We therefore developed a mathematical model to estimate life 
expectancy in patients with a body mass index (BMI) > or =40 kg/m(2) undergoing 
bariatric surgery.
RESEARCH METHODS AND PROCEDURES: We developed a nonhomogeneous Markov chain 
consisting of five states: the absorbing state ("dead") and the four recurrent 
states BMI > or =40 kg/m(2), BMI 36 to 39 kg/m(2), BMI 32 to 35 kg/m(2), and BMI 
25 to 31 kg/m(2). Scenarios of weight loss and age- and sex-dependent risk of 
death, as well as BMI-dependent excess mortality were extracted from life tables 
and published literature. All patients entered the model through the state of 
BMI > or =40 kg/m(2).
RESULTS: In men aged either 18 or 65 years at the time of surgery, who moved 
from the state BMI > or =40 kg/m(2) to the next lower state of BMI 36 to 39 
kg/m(2), life expectancy increased by 3 and 0.7 years, respectively. In women 
aged either 18 or 65 years at the time of surgery, who moved from the state BMI 
> or =40 kg/m(2) to the next lower state BMI 36 to 39 kg/m(2), life expectancy 
increased by 4.5 and 2.6 years, respectively. Weight loss to lower BMI strata 
resulted in further gains of life expectancy in both men and women.
DISCUSSION: Within the limitations of the modeling study, adjustable gastric 
banding in patients with morbid obesity may substantially increase life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2002.40
PMID: 11943839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2002 Apr;13(3):187-92. doi: 
10.1097/00001721-200204000-00003.

Activated protein C resistance in the absence of factor V Leiden mutation is a 
common finding in multiple myeloma and is associated with an increased risk of 
thrombotic complications.

Zangari M(1), Saghafifar F, Anaissie E, Badros A, Desikan R, Fassas A, Mehta P, 
Morris C, Toor A, Whitfield D, Siegel E, Barlogie B, Fink L, Tricot G.

Author information:
(1)Central Arkansas Veteran's Healthcare System, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA. ZangariMaurizio@uams.edu

Thromboembolism is not uncommon in multiple myeloma (MM) patients on treatment, 
but its pathogenesis remains poorly understood. We report the results of a 
prospective randomized trial of 62 newly diagnosed MM patients tested at 
baseline for hypercoagulability and treated with intensive chemotherapy with or 
without thalidomide in a randomized fashion. During the induction phase, 12 
patients (19%) developed evidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), which was 
significantly more common in the thalidomide arm (36%) than in the control group 
(3%) (P = 0.001). Fourteen patients (23%) were found to have a baseline-reduced 
response to activated protein C (APC) in the absence of factor V Leiden 
mutation. Using a Kaplan-Meier analysis, a significantly higher proportion of 
patients with APC resistance developed DVT (5/14 versus 7/38; P = 0.04) 
irrespective of thalidomide administration. The risk of DVT was highest (50%) in 
patients with APC resistance on thalidomide. None of the patients with normal 
APC response and not receiving thalidomide developed DVT. In conclusion, in this 
series, acquired APC resistance was present in almost one-quarter of newly 
diagnosed myeloma patients and significantly increased the risk of DVT.

DOI: 10.1097/00001721-200204000-00003
PMID: 11943931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Curr Top Med Chem. 2002 Mar;2(3):211-27. doi: 10.2174/1568026023394227.

New paradigms in drug design and discovery.

Neamati N(1), Barchi JJ Jr.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, School of Pharmacy, Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Los Angeles 90089-9121, USA. neamati@usc.edu

The new millennium has ushered in an era of science that will revolutionize a 
great majority of our daily activities. That revolution is being experienced by 
a growing number of the population who are pushing the average life expectancy 
closer to the 80-year mark. The primary reason for this increase is the changes 
we have made in the last 2-3 decades both in how we live our lives as well as 
how we treat our maladies when they arise. The advent of new techniques in 
diagnostics and surgery have allowed many to survive debilitating illnesses when 
their chances would have been slim only a few years ago. In addition, several 
new therapeutic agents have been developed in the latter part of the 20th 
century that have improved our quality of life and increased our overall 
survival time. New medicines to treat cardiovascular, degenerative, infectious, 
and neoplastic diseases are rapidly being discovered in an effort to further 
lengthen our lifetimes. The processes used by academic and industrial scientist 
to discover new drugs has recently experienced a true renaissance with many new 
and exciting techniques being developed in only the past 5-10 years. In this 
review, we will attempt to outline these latest protocols that chemists and 
biomedical scientist are currently employing to rapidly bring new drugs to the 
clinic.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026023394227
PMID: 11944817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Dev Biol. 2002 Apr 15;244(2):342-57. doi: 10.1006/dbio.2002.0602.

Xenopus Cdc42 regulates convergent extension movements during gastrulation 
through Wnt/Ca2+ signaling pathway.

Choi SC(1), Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, San 31 Hyoja Dong, Pohang, Kyungbuk, 790-784, Republic of Korea.

Rho GTPases are molecular switches that regulate many essential cellular 
processes, including actin dynamics, cell adhesion, cell-cycle progression, and 
transcription. We have isolated the Xenopus homolog of Rho GTPase Cdc42 and 
examined its potential role during gastrulation movements in early Xenopus 
embryos. XCdc42 is expressed in tissues undergoing extensive morphogenetic 
changes, such as the deep layers of involuting mesoderm and posterior 
neuroectoderm during gastrulation, and somitic mesoderm at neurula stages. 
Overexpression of either wild-type (WT) or dominant-negative (DN) XCdc42 
interferes with convergent extension movements in intact embryos, 
activin-stimulated animal caps, and dorsal marginal zone explants. These effects 
occur without affecting mesodermal specification. Overexpression of WT or DN 
XCdc42 leads to the decrease and increase of cell adhesiveness of blastomeres, 
respectively, as demonstrated by the cell adhesion assay. In addition, when 
overexpressed, PKC-alpha, XWnt-5a, and Mfz-3 inhibit activin-induced convergent 
extension in animal cap explants. This inhibition can be rescued by coexpression 
of DN XCdc42, implying that XCdc42 acts downstream of the Wnt/Ca2+ signaling 
pathway involving PKC activation. XCdc42 also lies downstream of XWnt-5a in the 
regulation of Ca2+-dependent cell adhesion. Taken together, our results suggest 
that XCdc42 plays a role in the regulation of convergent extension movements 
during gastrulation through the protein kinase C-mediated Wnt/Ca2+ pathway.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1006/dbio.2002.0602
PMID: 11944942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Curr Pharm Des. 2002;8(7):483-91. doi: 10.2174/1381612023395718.

Trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors in insects and gut leeches.

Schoofs L(1), Clynen E, Salzet M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Physiology and Molecular Biology, K.U.Leuven, 
Naamsestraat 59, Leuven, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
liliane.schoofs@bio.kleuven.ac.be

The constant increase of life expectancy is associated with major ageing of 
developed populations. This indicates that the new century will have one of most 
epidemic progressions of cardiovascular, cancer and inflammatory diseases. The 
high challenge for medical research is to compress such morbidity. In these 
conditions, invertebrates have demonstrated to be truly useful models in drug 
discovery for such ageing diseases. The last decade, drug discovery in leeches 
has opened the gate of new molecules to treat emphysema, coagulation, 
inflammation, dermitis and cancer. Also other invertebrates such as insects, 
which evolved from the annelids, harvest potential interesting molecules, such 
as serine protease inhibitors that can be exploited by the medical industry.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612023395718
PMID: 11945153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Int J Eat Disord. 2002 May;31(4):461-73. doi: 10.1002/eat.10034.

Validation of eating and dieting expectancy measures in two adolescent samples.

Simmons JR(1), Smith GT, Hill KK.

Author information:
(1)The Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the validity of two measures of eating and dieting 
expectancies (The Eating Expectancy Inventory [EEI] and the Thinness and 
Restricting Expectancy Inventory, [TREI]) for use with adolescents.
METHOD: Seventh (N = 392) and tenth graders (N = 300) completed the Bulimia 
Test-Revised (BULIT-R), the Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI-II), and two factors 
of the Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ).
RESULTS: Findings replicated for the two adolescent samples. The expectancy that 
thinness leads to overgeneralized life improvement correlated with measures of 
"successful" dieting, dieting plus disinhibition, and bulimic symptomatology. 
Expectancies for negative reinforcement from eating (e.g., eating helps manage 
negative affect and alleviate boredom) correlated with dieting plus 
disinhibition and bulimic symptoms, but not with successful dieting. Negative 
reinforcement from eating and reinforcement from thinness expectancies accounted 
for different bulimic symptom variance than that accounted for by the 
personality factors of perfectionism, interpersonal distrust, and 
ineffectiveness.
DISCUSSION: Results were consistent with prior work on college and clinical 
samples, thus supporting use of the expectancy measures with adolescents.

Copyright 2002 by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.10034
PMID: 11948651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. J Health Soc Behav. 2002 Mar;43(1):42-55.

Health lifestyles in Russia and the socialist heritage.

Cockerham WC(1), Snead MC, Dewaal DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 237 Ullman 
Bldg. 1530 3rd Ave. South, Birmingham, AL 35294-3350, USA. wcocker@uab.edu

This study examines the relationship between socialist ideology and the current 
negative health lifestyles of the Russian population. We explore the possibility 
that Soviet-style socialism with its negation of individuality and individual 
initiative in health matters promoted the development of a passive orientation 
toward healthy living. Using a national sample, we compare the health practices 
of those Russians who wish to return to socialism as it was before Gorbachev to 
those of Russians who favor staying with the present political and economic 
course or adopting other reforms. If a socialist ideology has indeed fostered a 
lack of responsibility for individual health promotion in Russia today, those 
persons wishing to return to socialism would be less likely to adopt a positive 
health lifestyle. Our data show that this is indeed the case, as pro-socialist 
respondents demonstrate less activity toward achieving health than 
antisocialists--although neither group collectively practices a healthy way of 
life.

PMID: 11949196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Soc Sci Res. 2002 Mar;31(1):124-50. doi: 10.1006/ssre.2001.0723.

Variations in age-specific homicide death rates: a cohort explanation for 
charges in the age distribution of homicide deaths.

O'Brien RM(1), Stockard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Oregon, USA. 
bobrien@oregon.uoregon.edu

An age-period-cohort characteristic model previously used to explain 
age-period-specific rates of homicide arrests for those 15 to 49 from 1960 to 
1995 is applied to measures of age-period-specific homicide deaths. The 
extension of this model to the examination of homicide victimization is 
significant because we are able to test the utility of the model across a longer 
time span (1930 to 1995) and a wider range of ages (10 to 79) and disaggregated 
by sex and race (Whites and non-Whites). Although the results indicate that past 
and recent shifts in age-period-specific rates of homicide deaths are associated 
with specific characteristics of cohorts, there are some important differences 
across race and sex groupings in the effects of these characteristics. The 
effects of the cohort variables examined in our model are independent of age and 
period, often substantively large, and last throughout the life course. The 
results are consistent with Durkheimian explanations of lethal violence, 
hypotheses from victimization theory, and basic tenets of cohort theory.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science (USA)

DOI: 10.1006/ssre.2001.0723
PMID: 11949672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Rheumatol. 2002 Apr;29(4):860-1.

Termination of disease modifying antirheumatic drugs in psoriatic arthritis.

Lacaille D, Stein HB, Raboud J, Klinkhoff AV.

Comment on
    J Rheumatol. 2001 Mar;28(3):682-3.

PMID: 11950038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Apr;13(2):133-43. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130203.x.

Long-term clinical effectiveness of oral implants in the treatment of partial 
edentulism. Seven-year life table analysis of a prospective study with ITI 
dental implants system used for single-tooth restorations.

Romeo E(1), Chiapasco M, Ghisolfi M, Vogel G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Odontostomatology, University of Milano, 
Milan, Italy. Eugenio.Romeo@unimi.it

One hundred and eight-seven ITI implants were prospectively followed from 
November 1992 to July 2000, in order to evaluate the clinical efficiency and the 
long-term prognosis in 109 partially edentulous patients (69 women and 40 men; 
average age 41.3 years). Of these 187 implants, 69.5% were placed in the 
mandible and 30.5% in the maxilla. After a healing period that ranged from three 
to six months, the osseointegrated implants (n = 184) were restored with single 
crowns. Three implants were extracted prior to loading the fixture and were 
considered early failures. Each implant was reassessed on a yearly basis, both 
clinically and radiographically. The results of the investigation, which were 
evaluated according to predefined success criteria, were reviewed in accordance 
with a life table method. During the follow-up, six cases were deemed to be late 
failures. In each of these cases, a suppurative infection of the peri-implant 
tissue was diagnosed: in one implant, the infection could not be eradicated and 
the implant was removed. When 11 drop-outs were included in the analysis, the 
cumulative survival and success rates for the whole sample group were 96.77% and 
93.6%, respectively. When only prosthetically loaded implants were considered, 
the results increased to 99.35% for the cumulative survival rate and 96.18% for 
the cumulative success rate. The analysis on disaggregated data showed better 
results for maxillary restorations (survival rate 100%) in comparison to 
mandible restorations (survival rate 95.11%). It was concluded that, under 
standard anatomic conditions (bone site height > 8 mm, thickness > 6 mm), 
prosthetic restoration of partially edentulous patients with the ITI system can 
be described as a reliable and efficient therapy in the long term.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130203.x
PMID: 11952733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Apr;13(2):144-53. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130204.x.

The use of reduced healing times on ITI implants with a sandblasted and 
acid-etched (SLA) surface: early results from clinical trials on ITI SLA 
implants.

Cochran DL(1), Buser D, ten Bruggenkate CM, Weingart D, Taylor TM, Bernard JP, 
Peters F, Simpson JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, TX 78229-3900 USA. cochran@uthscsa.edu

ITI dental implants are available with two bone-anchoring surfaces, a titanium 
plasma-sprayed (TPS) surface, and a recently introduced sandblasted and 
acid-etched (SLA) surface. Cell culture and animal tests demonstrate that the 
SLA surface stimulates bone cell differentiation and protein production, has 
large amounts of bone-to-implant contact, and results in large removal torque 
values in functional testing of the bone contact. As a result of these studies, 
a prospective human clinical trial was initiated to determine whether the 4.1 mm 
diameter SLA ITI solid screw implants could be predictably and safely restored 
as early as six weeks after implant placement surgery. The protocol restricted 
the use of the reduced healing time to a) healthy patients with sufficient bone 
volume to surround the implant, and b) those patients who had good bone quality 
(classes I-III) at the implant recipient site. Patients with poorer bone quality 
(class IV) did not have restorations until 12 weeks after implant placement. The 
clinical trial is an ongoing multicenter trial, with six centers in four 
countries, and with follow-up over five years. The primary outcome variable was 
abutment placement with a 35 Ncm force, with no countertorque and no pain or 
rotation of the implant. A secondary outcome was implant success, as defined by 
no mobility, no persistent pain or infection, and no peri-implant radiolucency. 
To date, 110 patients with 326 implants have completed the one-year post-loading 
recall visit, while 47 patients with 138 implants have completed the two-year 
recall. Three implants were lost prior to abutment connection. Prosthetic 
restoration was commenced after shortened healing times on 307 implants. The 
success rate for these implants, as judged by abutment placement, was 99.3% 
(with an average healing time of 49 days). Life table analyses demonstrated an 
implant success rate of 99.1%, both for 329 implants at one year and for 138 
implants at two years. In the 24-month period after restoration, no implant 
losses were reported for the 138 implants. These results demonstrate that, under 
defined conditions, solid screw ITI implants with an SLA endosseous surface can 
be restored after approximately six weeks of healing with a high predictability 
of success, defined by abutment placement at 35 Ncm without countertorque, and 
with subsequent implant success rates of greater than 99% two years after 
restoration.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130204.x
PMID: 11952734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Apr;13(2):154-61. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130205.x.

A multicenter prospective evaluation of 2-months loaded Osseotite implants 
placed in the posterior jaws: 3-year follow-up results.

Testori T(1), Del Fabbro M, Feldman S, Vincenzi G, Sullivan D, Rossi R Jr, 
Anitua E, Bianchi F, Francetti L, Weinstein RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, University of Milan, and C.E.R.I.B. (European 
Center for the Research in Implant dentistry and Biomaterials), Milan, Italy. 
ttestor@tin.it

In this prospective study, the clinical outcome of 2-months loaded implants 
placed in the posterior jaws was evaluated after up to 3 years of functional 
loading. 405 Osseotite implants with microtextured acid-etched surface were 
consecutively placed in 11 fully and 164 partially edentulous patients (mean age 
53.5 +/- 15.3 (S.D.) years) using a one-stage technique. 282 implants, 
supporting 154 restorations, were placed in the mandible, while 123 implants, 
supporting 75 restorations, were placed in the maxilla. A total of 99 
single-tooth restorations, 119 short-span fixed bridges and 11 full-arch 
prostheses were applied. The mean time interval from surgery to connection of 
provisional restoration was 2.0 +/- 0.7 months. 9 failures were reported up to 3 
years of follow-up; of these, 4 mandibular and 2 maxillary implants failed 
during the initial healing period (before prosthesis connection), while 3 
mandibular implants failed after loading. No other complications occurred 
throughout the study. Life table analysis showed a cumulative survival rate of 
97.5% for the mandible and 98.4% for the maxilla. Post-loading implant survival 
rate was 98.9% for the mandible and 100% for the maxilla. The excellent outcome 
of this interim report suggests that microtextured Osseotite implants in the 
posterior jaws may safely bear a functional load applied 2 months after 
insertion. The results of the present study are particularly encouraging for 
implants placed in the maxilla, since both a significant reduction of the 
healing period compared to the 6 months suggested by the classical Brånemark 
protocol, and an excellent post-loading function may be achieved also in low 
quality bone.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130205.x
PMID: 11952735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Eur J Haematol. 2002 Jan;68(1):54-63. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2002.00562.x.

Improved outcome in adult acute myeloid leukemia is almost entirely restricted 
to young patients and associated with stem cell transplantation.

Wahlin A(1), Markevärn B, Golovleva I, Nilsson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Hematology, Umeå University, S-901 85 
Umeå, Sweden. anders.wahlin.us@vll.se

Prognostic factors were studied in a series of 318 patients with acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML), 17-90 yr old, treated at a single centre during 1982-98, and 
representing 79% of the total number of cases registered in the area during this 
period. Risk group stratification based on cytogenetics, occurrence of 
antecedent hematological disorder, and leukocyte count could be performed in 
93%. Five percent were allocated to the favourable risk group, 40% to standard 
risk, and 55% to adverse risk. Complete remission (CR) was attained in 52%. The 
CR rate was higher in the favourable (80%) and standard risk groups (69%) than 
in the adverse risk group (37%). The CR rate increased from 44% in the 1980s to 
60% in the 1990s. The 5-yr survival rate for all patients was only 12%. Low age, 
promyelocytic leukaemia, treatment in the 1990s, high induction treatment 
intensity, and non-adverse risk group were favourably associated with survival. 
The median survival time increased from 115 to 349 d between the 1980s and the 
1990s, but the 5-yr survival rate was only 11% for patients over 55 yr of age 
even in the last decade. For the younger patients, the 5-yr overall survival 
rate increased from 9% to 35% in the last decade. The median time in first 
remission was 365 d. Age below 56 yr, allogeneic and autologous transplants, and 
non-adverse risk group were associated with prolonged response duration. The 
duration of response among all patients increased from 250 d in the 1980s to 451 
d in the 1990s, but event-free survival time did not improve significantly in 
patients above 55 yr of age. Among patients below 56 yr of age, overall survival 
and event-free survival were significantly better for those who received 
allogeneic or autologous transplants in first remission than for those who were 
treated with chemotherapy only. Overall survival times did not improve from the 
1980s to the 1990s among those patients below 56 yr who were treated with 
chemotherapy only in first remission, in spite of the use of transplants in 
second remission.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2002.00562.x
PMID: 11952822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. J Intern Med. 2002 Apr;251(4):325-30. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2002.00959.x.

Cardiovascular prevention before admission reduces mortality following acute 
myocardial infarction in patients with diabetes.

Löndahl M(1), Katzman P, Nilsson A, Ljungdahl L, Prütz KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Helsingborg Hospital, Helsingborg, Sweden. 
magnus.londahl@helsingborgslasarett.se

OBJECTIVES: Previous studies have shown that patients with diabetes mellitus 
have an increased mortality after suffering from acute myocardial infarction 
(AMI). Patients with diabetes have several risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease. Our objective was to quantify the prevalence of pharmacological 
cardiovascular prevention at admission and relate such treatment to short and 
long-term mortality following AMI in patients with and without diabetes.
DESIGN AND SUBJECTS: All patients discharged from the Department of Internal 
Medicine at Helsingborg Hospital in 1996 and 1997 with a principal diagnosis of 
AMI were included in the study. Patients were divided into two groups according 
to the presence or absence of diabetes. Cardiovascular risk factors, on-going 
medication, type of ward following admission, peak creatine kinase MB mass 
(CKMB) and immediate treatment were registered. Information about death was 
obtained from the national register. Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed for 
life-expectancy.
RESULTS: A total of 673 patients with AMI were registered, of which 117 (17.4%) 
had diabetes. No differences in 30 days (17.1% vs. 15.3%) or 1-year (24.8% vs. 
27.4%) mortality were seen between the diabetes and control groups, whereas the 
2-year mortality was significantly higher in the diabetes group (40.2% vs. 
29.1%). Cardiovascular risk factors occurred more often in the diabetes group 
and the use of aspirin, ACE-inhibitors, statins and diuretics was significantly 
more frequent. In patients treated with aspirin, in combination with either 
statin or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor, or both, no differences 
were seen in 30 days, 1 or 2-year mortality between groups.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to earlier studies we did not find an increased 30 days 
and 1-year mortality in patients with diabetes suffering from AMI. This 
discrepancy was linked to a higher frequency of pharmacological cardiovascular 
prevention, a finding supporting the hypothesis that survival of a diabetes 
patient after AMI could be affected by factors operating before the infarction.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2002.00959.x
PMID: 11952883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. AIDS. 2002 May 3;16(7):1051-8. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200205030-00012.

Intermittent use of triple-combination therapy is predictive of mortality at 
baseline and after 1 year of follow-up.

Hogg RS(1), Heath K, Bangsberg D, Yip B, Press N, O'Shaughnessy MV, Montaner JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Population Health, BC Centre for Excellence in 
HIV/AIDS, 608-1081 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia V6Z 1Y6, Canada.

Comment in
    AIDS. 2003;17 Suppl 4:S123-4.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the impact of intermittent use of triple drug 
antiretroviral therapy on survival.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Population-based analysis of 1282 
antiretroviral therapy naive HIV-positive individuals aged 18 years and older in 
British Columbia who started triple-combination therapy between August 1996 and 
December 1999. Therapy use was estimated by dividing the number of months of 
medications dispensed by the number of months of follow-up. Intermittent therapy 
was defined as the participant having obtained less than 75% of their medication 
in the first 12 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cumulative all-cause mortality rates from the start of 
triple drug antiretroviral therapy to 30 September 2000.
RESULTS: As of 30 September 2000, 106 subjects had died. Cumulative mortality 
was 3.9% (+/- 0.5%) at 12 months. In a multivariate model, after controlling for 
other variables that were significant in the univariate analyses each 100 cell 
decrement in baseline CD4 cell count and the intermittent use of antiretroviral 
drugs were associated with increased mortality with risk ratios of 1.31 [95% 
confidence interval (CI), 1.16-1.49; P < 0.001] and 2.90 (95% CI, 1.93-4.36; P < 
0.001), respectively. In order to control for downward drift, intermittent use 
of therapy was measured over the first year whereas other factors were measured 
at the end of year 1. After adjusting for all other factors, those participants 
who used antiretroviral drugs intermittently were 2.97 times (95% CI, 1.33-6.62; 
P = 0.008) more likely to die.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that even after adjusting for other 
prognostic factors intermittent use of antiretroviral therapy was associated 
with increased mortality.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200205030-00012
PMID: 11953472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2002 Apr;(397):240-7. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-200204000-00028.

Results of treatment for metastatic osteosarcoma with neoadjuvant chemotherapy 
and surgery.

Thompson RC Jr(1), Cheng EY, Clohisy DR, Perentesis J, Manivel C, Le CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
55455, USA.

The purpose of the current study was to define the survival outcome variables 
for the 85 patients with Stage IIB osteosarcoma treated with neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy at the authors' institution from 1982 to 1997. A minimum 4-year 
followup or death was a requisite for inclusion. Forty-three patients were 
relapse-free survivors and 14 had no evidence of disease at followup for an 
overall survival of 67%. Twenty-nine patients had thoracotomy and nine have no 
evidence of disease with a minimum 4-year followup from last thoracotomy. The 
mean time to metastasis after diagnosis for patients presenting with Stage IIB 
disease was 12.8 months. There was no difference in the survival for any of the 
three chemotherapy protocols, used during the 15 years included in this 
analysis. There was a significant relation between length of time to relapse and 
survival. For each additional year without relapse, there is an 18% increase in 
chance of survival. In patients who were treated with thoracotomy, the number of 
metastatic nodules was a significant predictor of survival; specifically, each 
nodule increased the risk of death by 43%. A favorable outcome in this cohort of 
patients is related to the length of time between initiation of therapy and 
diagnosis of metastasis, and the number of metastatic foci.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-200204000-00028
PMID: 11953615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Mar;14(3):217-21. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200203000-00003.

Strategies for early diagnosis of haemochromatosis.

Niederau C(1), Strohmeyer G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, St Josef-Hospital Oberhausen, Academic Teaching 
Hospital of the University of Essen, Oberhausen, Germany. 
claus.niederau@st-josef.de

Comment on
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Mar;14(3):223-9.

Genetic haemochromatosis is one of the most frequent inborn errors of 
metabolism. Only patients with early non-cirrhotic haemochromatosis treated by 
phlebotomies have a normal life expectancy. The present review analyses 
strategies for early diagnosis of haemochromatosis by using the Medline database 
and own data from a large cohort of patients with haemochromatosis. The still 
widely used approach to look for haemochromatosis in the presence of clinical 
complications such as liver disease will detect haemochromatosis in a 
considerable percentage of patients with Celtic origin. However, up to one half 
of these patients will already have an irreversible complication such as liver 
cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus or cardiomyopathy. In contrast, screening 
approaches of non-selected asymptomatic subjects using either determination of 
transferrin saturation and serum ferritin (phenotypic screening) or using 
genetic testing will detect haemochromatosis in most subjects in a precirrhotic 
stage without irreversible complications. Both phenotypic and genetic screening 
are highly cost-effective for detection of iron-loaded individuals in the 
general population. The current clinical approach to look for haemochromatosis 
in the presence of clinical disease is unacceptable. Only a more general type of 
screening in asymptomatic subjects including genetic testing will increase the 
rate of early diagnosis and will further improve the clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200203000-00003
PMID: 11953684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Apr 16;136(8):635. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-136-8-200204160-00023.

Correction: cost-effectiveness of statins in older patients with myocardial 
infarction.

Ganz DA, Kuntz KM, Benner JS, Avorn J.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2000 May 16;132(10):780-7.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-136-8-200204160-00023
PMID: 11955042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Clin Invest. 2002 Apr;109(8):1041-8. doi: 10.1172/JCI14538.

Promotion of osteoclast survival and antagonism of bisphosphonate-induced 
osteoclast apoptosis by glucocorticoids.

Weinstein RS(1), Chen JR, Powers CC, Stewart SA, Landes RD, Bellido T, Jilka RL, 
Parfitt AM, Manolagas SC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Center for Osteoporosis and 
Metabolic Bone Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Arkansas 
for Medical Sciences, 4301 W. Markham Street, Little Rock, AR 72205-7199, USA. 
weinsteinroberts@uams.edu

Glucocorticoids depress bone formation by inhibiting osteoblastogenesis and 
increasing osteoblast apoptosis. However, the role of bone resorption in the 
initial rapid phase of bone loss characteristic of glucocorticoid-induced 
osteoporosis is unexplained, and the reason for the efficacy of bisphosphonates 
in this condition remains unknown. We report that in murine osteoclast cultures, 
glucocorticoids prolonged the baseline survival of osteoclasts and antagonized 
bisphosphonate-induced caspase activation and apoptosis by a glucocorticoid 
receptor-mediated action. Consistent with the in vitro evidence, in a murine 
model of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, the number of cancellous 
osteoclasts increased, even though osteoclast progenitor number was reduced. 
Moreover, in mice receiving both glucocorticoids and bisphosphonates, the 
expected proapoptotic effect of bisphosphonates on osteoclasts was abrogated, as 
evidenced by maintenance of osteoclast numbers and, additionally, loss of bone 
density. In contrast, bisphosphonate administration prevented 
glucocorticoid-induced osteoblast apoptosis. These results indicate that the 
early loss of bone with glucocorticoid excess is caused by extension of the life 
span of pre-existing osteoclasts, an effect not preventable by bisphosphonates. 
Therefore, the early beneficial effects of these agents must be due, in part, to 
prolonging the life span of osteoblasts.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI14538
PMCID: PMC150947
PMID: 11956241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. J Clin Oncol. 2002 Apr 15;20(8):2092-100. doi: 10.1200/jco.2002.08.035.

Decision analysis of prophylactic surgery or screening for BRCA1 mutation 
carriers: a more prominent role for oophorectomy.

van Roosmalen MS(1), Verhoef LC, Stalmeier PF, Hoogerbrugge N, van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Oncology Arnhem-Nijmegen (RADIAN), University 
Medical Center Nijmegen, The Netherlands. m.vanroosmalen@rther.azn.nl

PURPOSE: BRCA1 mutation carriers have a high risk of developing breast and 
ovarian cancer. Carriers may opt for prophylactic surgery and screening. Recent 
data suggesting that prophylactic oophorectomy reduces breast cancer risk have 
been incorporated in a decision analysis.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to compare LE and QALE following four 
strategies: (1) prophylactic mastectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy (PMPO), 
(2) screening for breast cancer and prophylactic oophorectomy (BSPO), (3) 
prophylactic mastectomy and screening for ovarian cancer (PMOS), and (4) 
screening for breast and ovarian cancer (BSOS). The analysis was performed for a 
high (85% breast cancer, 63% ovarian cancer) and medium (56% breast cancer, 16% 
ovarian cancer) risk level. Utilities for the health states after prophylactic 
surgery were obtained from mutation carriers. Other model parameter values were 
obtained from the literature. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: When compared with BSOS, the average gain in LE for 30-year-old 
carriers in the high (medium) risk group was 11.7 (6.6) years for PMPO, 9.5 
(5.3) years for BSPO, and 4.9 (4.4) years for PMOS. For 30-year-old carriers, 
BSPO had a QALE advantage when PO was performed before age 40. In the 
medium-risk group, there was a stronger advantage for BSPO when QALE was 
considered.
CONCLUSION: PMPO is the most effective strategy to prolong life. However, if 
patient preferences were taken into account, BSPO tends to be a better strategy 
in most women at medium risk or in young women at high risk when PO was 
performed before age 40.

DOI: 10.1200/jco.2002.08.035
PMID: 11956270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Thorac Imaging. 2002 Apr;17(2):102-12. doi:
10.1097/00005382-200204000-00002.

Imaging of the chest after lung transplantation.

Collins J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics, E3/311 
Clinical Science Center, 600 Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53792-3252, USA. 
jcollin4@facstaff.wisc.edu

Lung transplantation is a well-accepted treatment for numerous lung diseases 
when medical or surgical therapy is ineffective or unavailable and the patient 
has a limited life expectancy (usually less than 2 to 3 years). When 
appropriate, single-lung transplantation is the preferred procedure because of a 
critical shortage of available donor lungs. Preoperative imaging is useful for 
selecting which lung should be transplanted, size matching between donor lung 
and recipient thorax, and screening for malignancy. Cardiac-related deaths, 
infection, and primary graft failure are the leading causes of perioperative 
death. Obliterative bronchiolitis is the "Achilles heel" of lung transplantation 
and accounts for the largest number of late deaths. This article reviews the 
preoperative, perioperative, and postoperative considerations and the utility of 
radiologic imaging after lung transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/00005382-200204000-00002
PMID: 11956360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Urol. 2002 May;167(5):2117-22.

Patient preferences for outcomes associated with surgical management of prostate 
cancer.

Smith DS(1), Krygiel J, Nease RF Jr, Sumner W 2nd, Catalona WJ.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

PURPOSE: We used utility assessment to evaluate patient preferences for current 
urinary and sexual function after radical prostatectomy.
