MATERIALS AND METHODS: We measured preferences in 209 community volunteers 
enrolled in a prostate cancer screening study who underwent radical 
prostatectomy between 1994 and 1998. We compared preferences in 3 outcome 
groups, namely men bothered by current urinary and sexual functioning, only 
bothered by current sexual functioning and not bothered by current sexual or 
urinary functioning. Preferences were assessed via a computer based interview 
using time trade-off and standard gamble methods. Current functioning was 
assessed via a standardized questionnaire.
RESULTS: Median time trade-off and standard gamble utilities were high at 0.9 
across outcome groups, indicating that men were not willing to give up many 
remaining life years (10% of remaining life expectancy) with current functioning 
to achieve ideal functioning. However, mean time trade-off and standard gamble 
scores significantly decreased as the burden increased in men bothered by 
current sexual and urinary function (0.77 and 0.82), bothered by current sexual 
function only (0.87 and 0.89) and not bothered by sexual or urinary function 
(0.92 and 0.96, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Health related quality of life was generally good in this 
observational study of patients treated for prostate cancer with radical 
prostatectomy. In addition, those bothered by urinary and/or sexual function 
would not be willing to trade much of the remaining life span to achieve perfect 
functioning. However, the perception of side effects was bothersome enough in 
some men to warrant appropriate patient counseling regarding the potential risks 
and benefits.

PMID: 11956454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Life Sci Space Res. 1977;15:157-63.

Calculation of the radiobiological effects of heavy ions on eggs of Artemia 
salina flown in the Biostack experiments.

Heinrich W(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Physik, Gesamthochschule Siegen, Siegen, FRG.

By factorizing fragmentation cross-sections of ions into a projectile and a 
target-depending part, their flux inside a space vehicle can be calculated. This 
factorization was found at Bevalac for high-energy oxygen and carbon ions. With 
some restrictions, an extension of the factorization law to heavier nuclei up to 
iron is indicated by cosmic-ray data. Using this factorization the known 
cross-sections for the fragmentation of heavy ions (Z=6-26) in collisions with 
protons were extrapolated to heavier target nuclei and the energy spectra of 
nuclei of different charges in the interior of' the Biostack were calculated. 
The theory of Katz was applied to estimate the heavy-ion-induced radiation 
damage in Artemia salina. The results are compared with experiment.

PMID: 11958210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Mar-Apr;17(2):212-9.

Fixed partial dentures supported by natural teeth and Brånemark system implants: 
a 3-year report.

Tangerud T(1), Grønningsaeter AG, Taylor A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Odontology-Prosthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Bergen, Norway. tore.tangerud@wanadoo.es

PURPOSE: To evaluate fixed partial dentures (FPDs) supported by a combination of 
natural teeth and implants in a variety of clinical situations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 30 patients, 86 teeth and 85 implants were used as 
supports for 30 FPDs of varying extension (mean = 8.6 units); 23 in the maxilla 
and 7 in the mandible. The prostheses had a removable section fastened with 
screws to both the implants and to a section cemented on the supporting teeth, 
and were thus functioning as rigid, fixed partial dentures.
RESULTS: Five implants were lost prior to the placement of prostheses, 2 were 
lost after loading, giving survival rates of 91.0% in the maxilla and 95.5% in 
the mandible. Complications were predominantly soft tissue-related and were all 
amenable to treatments. One patient was lost to follow-up. The remaining 29 FPDs 
remained stable throughout the 3-year observation period.
DISCUSSION: Changes in plaque accumulated, bleeding on probing, pocket depths, 
and marginal bone level were acceptable. The survival rate of implants was 
comparable to that of similar studies. Further investigations are needed with 
regard to design for such FPDs.
CONCLUSION: These findings, together with the patient satisfaction experienced, 
indicated that the combined support of implants and teeth for fixed prostheses 
may be appropriate treatment for patients.

PMID: 11958403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2002 Apr;16(3):44-52. doi:
10.1097/00005082-200204000-00006.

Wearable defibrillator.

Schott R(1).

Author information:
(1)The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio, USA.

Technological advances have increased life expectancy and improved quality of 
life for patients with heart disease. A new device, called the wearable 
defibrillator, is designed to provide monitoring and defibrillation capability 
for patients who have had an infarct and those awaiting heart transplantation. 
These two populations of patients are at increased risk of sudden cardiac death. 
This external wearable apparatus continuously monitors a patient's heart rhythm. 
The monitor is programmed to recognize the individual's heart rhythm. If the 
heart rhythm changes and meets criteria for a lethal dysrhythmia, the monitor 
will provide a series of alarms to the patient and bystanders. If the patient 
fails to respond to the alarms, because of loss of consciousness, the system 
delivers a shock to treat the life-threatening dysrhythmia. Although still in 
the investigational phase, this device holds promise as temporary protection for 
patients at risk for sudden cardiac death.

DOI: 10.1097/00005082-200204000-00006
PMID: 11958443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Med Decis Making. 2002 Mar-Apr;22(2):108-24. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0202200209.

Testing for factor V Leiden in patients with pulmonary or venous 
thromboembolism: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Eckman MH(1), Singh SK, Erban JK, Kao G.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Center for Clinical Effectiveness, 
University of Cincinnati, OH 45267-0535, USA. mark.eckman@uc.edu

Summary for patients in
    J Fam Pract. 2002 Jul;51(7):598.

BACKGROUND: Survivors of venous thromboembolism who have the factor V Leiden 
mutation have an increased risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE), but 
the cost-effectiveness of testing for factor VLeiden has not been assessed.
METHODS: We used a Markov state transition decision model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of factor V Leiden testing and treatment strategies in 
survivors of VTE using a societal perspective for costs, effectiveness-measured 
in quality-adjusted life years, and incremental cost-effectiveness. Data sources 
included the English language literature using MEDLINE searches and 
bibliographies from selected articles. Cost estimates were derived from Medicare 
reimbursement and other sources. The analysis examined 3 hypothetical cohorts of 
35-year-old women having suffered their 1st episode of VTE. Interventions 
included oral anticoagulant therapy for 6 months versus testing. Patients found 
to have the factor V Leiden mutation were then treated with either 3 years or 
lifelong oral anticoagulant therapy.
RESULTS: Total costs for testing followed by 3 years of treatment were $9,676, 
whereas those for no testing were $10,392 and those for testing followed by 
lifelong therapy were $13,179. Testing followed by 3 years of treatment 
increased quality-adjusted life expectancy by roughly 0.15 years. In sensitivity 
analyses using a more plausible constant risk model of recurrent VTE, testing 
followed by lifelong anticoagulation was the favored strategy. However, the 
marginal cost-effectiveness ratio was highly dependent on the rate of recurrent 
VTE, the risk of major hemorrhage, prevalence of factor V Leiden, patient age, 
and the efficacy of anticoagulation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing followed by lifelong anticoagulation is unlikely to be a 
cost-effective strategy in patient populations with a very low prevalence of 
factor V Leiden; for those with a lower risk for recurrent VTE, such as patients 
with a clear precipitant; or for patients with risk factors for bleeding while 
receiving anticoagulant therapy. The only patients for whom testing followed by 
lifelong anticoagulant therapy may be a reasonable strategy are those with no 
obvious precipitant for VTE (i.e., idiopathic VTE) who are at low risk for 
bleeding complications from oral anticoagulant therapy. These results highlight 
the need for further clinical investigation and the development of multivariable 
models predicting the risk of recurrent VTE based on factor V Leiden status, 
idiopathic versus precipitated VTE, treatment, and the coinheritance of other 
common thrombophilias, such as the prothrombin gene mutation.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200209
PMID: 11958494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Med Decis Making. 2002 Mar-Apr;22(2):140-51. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0202200211.

Judgment analysis of prioritization decisions within a dialysis program in one 
United Kingdom region.

Kee F(1), Patterson CC, Wilson AE, McConnell JM, Wheeler SM, Watson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Queen's University of Belfast. 
f.kee@qub.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Some previous research on rationed clinical services has confused 
the conceptual differences underpinning prioritization decisions on the one hand 
and assessments of individual need on the other. The balance of the clinical and 
nonclinical drivers of these decisions can be different. Our objective was to 
study the basis and extent of variation among nephrologists in one NHS region in 
their views concerning prioritization for dialysis.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In a clinical judgment analysis, multiple regression 
analysis was used to express the impact of clinical and nonclinical cues on 
nephrologists' decisions to offer dialysis and attribute priority to 50 "paper 
patients." Cues were selected for the decision-making models using stepwise 
(backward) elimination of variables. Further "policy" models for priority were 
derived by forcing in the doctors' views about the capacity of dialysis to 
extend life expectancy or improve its quality.
RESULTS: Comparison of "propensity to offer" and "prioritization" decision 
models showed a modest degree of correspondence. Among the nonrenal cues, the 
patient's mental state made the single greatest contribution to the priority 
decision models (mean contribution to R2 = 12.1, with temporary or permanent 
confusional states in patients changing the priority [1-50] by an average of 15 
rank places). Although patient age significantly influenced the decision models 
of half of the doctors, the beta-coefficients were very modest, suggesting a 
change in rank order of no more than one place. There was a significant 
improvement in the overall explained variance (R2) of the models when varying 
perceptions of the capacity of dialysis to improve the quality or extend the 
duration of the patient's life were forced into the model. Although, in general, 
temporary or permanent confusion in the patient down-graded the priority for 
dialysis by between 10 and 20 places, this tendency was largely unchanged when 
the doctors' perceptions of benefit were forced into the priority model. Among 
renal cues, the presence of uremic symptoms had the greatest impact on priority 
(mean contribution to R2 = 49.1, mean beta-coefficient -17.1), whereas the 
presence of other comorbid disease had relatively little effect.
CONCLUSIONS: When forced to rank patients, the nonrenal factor that had the most 
significant bearing on perceived priority for dialysis was the patient's mental 
state. However, the impact of the patient's mental state on priority did not 
appear to be driven by its influence on the doctors' perceptions of how dialysis 
might improve quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200211
PMID: 11958496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. FEBS Lett. 2002 Apr 10;516(1-3):53-7. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02470-5.

Extended longevity of Caenorhabditis elegans by knocking in extra copies of 
hsp70F, a homolog of mot-2 (mortalin)/mthsp70/Grp75.

Yokoyama K(1), Fukumoto K, Murakami T, Harada S, Hosono R, Wadhwa R, Mitsui Y, 
Ohkuma S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kanazawa University, Takara-machi 13-1, 
Kanazawa, 920-0934, Ishikawa, Japan.

The Caenorhabditis elegans homolog of mortalin/mthsp70/Grp75 (called mot-2 
hereafter) was isolated by screening of a nematode cDNA library with mouse mot-2 
cDNA. The isolated clone matched to hsp70F of C. elegans. Analysis with two of 
the antibodies raised against hsp70F revealed that unlike mammalian mot-2, it is 
heat inducible. Transient induction of hsp70F by heat shock led to a slight 
(<13%) extension in the C. elegans life span. The transgenic worms that 
constitutively over-expressed hsp70F predominantly in muscle showed life span 
extension (approximately 43% for mean and approximately 45% for maximum life 
span) as compared to the wild-type and green fluorescent protein-transgenic 
worms. Life span extension of human cells was obtained by over-expression of 
mot-2 [Kaul et al. (2000) FEBS Lett. 474, 159-164]. Our results show, for the 
first time, that this member of the hsp70 family governs the longevity of worms 
and thus there are common pathways that determine mammalian and worm longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02470-5
PMID: 11959102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Harv Health Lett. 2002 Apr;27(6):1-2.

Cancer. Support groups: study casts some doubt.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11959520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2002 Mar;32 Suppl:S22-31. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hye142.

Overview of cancer control programs in Japan.

Yamaguchi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Deputy Director, Growth Factor Division, National Cancer Center Research 
Institute, Tokyo, Japan. kyamaguc@gan2.ncc.go.jp

Japan has a population of about 127 million, with an average life expectancy 
that is one of the highest in the world. Cancer has been the leading cause of 
death in Japan since 1981. The incidence of cancer for all sites in 1994 was 
estimated to be 440 000; crude incidence rates per 100 000 for males and females 
were 416.3 and 299.4, respectively. In 1997, the number of cancer deaths was 275 
413; crude death rates for males and females per 100 000 were 273.0 and 169.9, 
respectively. Projections for 2015 indicate that 890 000 people will develop 
cancer and 450 000 will die as a result. It is not too much to say that Japan is 
now amid a 'Cancer Era'. Meanwhile, the progress in medical sciences is 
improving survival in cancer patients; in cancer patients diagnosed during 
1987-89, relative 5-year survival was reported to be 41.2% for all sites and 
cancer survivorship research estimated the number of cancer survivors for all 
sites in 1998 who have lived for between 5 and 24 years after diagnosis to be 
1.5 million. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is focusing on five different 
measures in the implementation of its cancer control programs: public health 
education, nationwide cancer screening programs, development and support of 
specialized medical institutions, training of specialists and promotion of basic 
and clinical cancer research. As a tool for public health education, the 
Ministry published in 2000 a 10-year health promotion program entitled 'Healthy 
Japanese in the 21st Century'. In the plan, seven particular goals are 
enumerated with regard to cancer. In practice, issues of concern include the 
development of new modalities, telling the truth to cancer patients, clinical 
trials and bioethical issues.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hye142
PMID: 11959874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Mar;29(6):491-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703395.

Outcome of second hematopoietic cell transplantation in Hurler syndrome.

Grewal SS(1), Krivit W, Defor TE, Shapiro EG, Orchard PJ, Abel SL, Lockman LA, 
Ziegler RS, Dusenbery KE, Peters C.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Blood and Marrow Transplantation, University 
of Minnesota, 420 Delaware Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

Hurler syndrome (HS) is an autosomal recessive, inherited metabolic storage 
disorder due to deficiency of lysosomal alpha-L-iduronidase (IDU) enzyme 
activity. Untreated patients develop progressive mental retardation and 
multisystem morbidity with a median life expectancy of 5 years. Allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) can achieve stabilization and even 
improvement of intellect, with long-term survival. However, children with HS 
have an increased incidence of graft failure, usually with concomitant 
autologous marrow reconstitution. Between 1983 and 2000, 71 Hurler children 
underwent HCT at the University of Minnesota. Of these 71, 19 (27%) experienced 
graft failure. We report HCT outcomes in all 11 Hurler patients receiving a 
second HCT at the University of Minnesota. Median age at second HCT was 25 
months (range, 16 to 45 months); median time from first HCT was 8 months (range, 
4 to 18.5 months). The conditioning regimen consisted of 
cyclophosphamide/TBI/ATG (n = 8) or busulfan/cyclophosphamide/ATG (n = 3). The 
source of bone marrow was an unrelated donor in six, matched sibling in four, 
and mismatched related in one. Five of the 11 grafts were T cell depleted prior 
to infusion. Overall, 10 of 11 patients showed donor-derived engraftment, of 
whom three developed grade 3 to 4 acute GVHD. Five of 11 patients are surviving 
a median of 25 months (range, 2 months to 12 years) with an overall actuarial 
survival of 50% (95% CI, 27% to 93%) at 4 years. All five show sustained donor 
engraftment with normalization of IDU activity levels. Three of five evaluable 
patients demonstrated stabilization of neuropsychological function after second 
HCT. Currently, allogeneic donor-derived hematopoiesis provides the only chance 
for long-term survival and improved quality of life in Hurler patients. While 
graft failure in Hurler patients requires further investigation, a timely second 
HCT can be well-tolerated and beneficial.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703395
PMID: 11960268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. JAMA. 2002 Apr 17;287(15):1972-81. doi: 10.1001/jama.287.15.1972.

Gastroesophageal reflux, barrett esophagus, and esophageal cancer: scientific 
review.

Shaheen N(1), Ransohoff DF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, Center for Esophageal Disease 
and Swallowing, CB#7080, University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-7080, USA. nshaheen@med.unc.edu

CONTEXT: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a risk factor for 
adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, a rare cancer whose incidence is increasing. 
Adenocarcinoma may develop from Barrett esophagus, a metaplastic change of the 
esophageal epithelium from squamous to intestinalized columnar mucosa, which is 
associated with chronic reflux. Some have recommended that patients with chronic 
reflux symptoms undergo upper endoscopy to assess for Barrett esophagus and to 
screen for cancer.
OBJECTIVES: To review the evidence linking GERD and Barrett esophagus to 
esophageal adenocarcinoma and to examine the utility of upper endoscopy as a 
screening tool in adenocarcinoma of the esophagus among individuals with GERD.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search was performed to identify all pertinent 
English-language reports about GERD, adenocarcinoma, and Barrett esophagus from 
1968 through 2001. Reports were of randomized controlled clinical trials if 
available, case-control data if trials were unavailable, and cohort studies if 
case-control data were unavailable. Pertinent bibliographies were also reviewed 
to find reports not otherwise identified.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Studies were selected by using the search 
terms gastroesophageal reflux, adenocarcinoma, and Barrett's esophagus, with 
subheadings for classification, complications, drug therapy, economics, 
epidemiology, mortality, surgery, and prevention and control. Clinical 
guidelines for the care of subjects with GERD and Barrett esophagus were 
retrieved and abstracted.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Cohort studies demonstrate that symptoms of GERD occur monthly 
in almost 50% of US adults and weekly in almost 20%. Three large case-control 
studies demonstrate a positive association between reflux symptoms and risk of 
adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, with more prolonged and severe symptoms 
accentuating this risk. However, because of the low incidence of adenocarcinoma 
of the esophagus and the ubiquity of reflux symptoms, the risk of cancer in any 
given individual with reflux symptoms is low. No randomized trial data are 
available to demonstrate either decreased cancer incidence or increased life 
expectancy in subjects with GERD who undergo screening endoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: Strong evidence supports the association of GERD and adenocarcinoma 
of the esophagus; however, the risk of cancer in any given individual with GERD 
is low. Barrett esophagus appears to be a common precursor lesion to this 
cancer. Given the low absolute risk of cancer in those with GERD and the lack of 
demonstrated efficacy of endoscopic screening, insufficient evidence exists to 
endorse routine endoscopic screening of patients with chronic GERD symptoms.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.287.15.1972
PMID: 11960540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2002 May;13(5):1307-1320. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V1351307.

Effects of increased peritoneal clearances on mortality rates in peritoneal 
dialysis: ADEMEX, a prospective, randomized, controlled trial.

Paniagua R(1), Amato D(1), Vonesh E(1), Correa-Rotter R(1), Ramos A(1), Moran 
J(1), Mujais S(1).

Author information:
(1)*Mexican Institute of Social Security, Mexico City, Mexico; Baxter Healthcare 
Corporation, Deerfield, Illinois; Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y 
Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Mexico City, Mexico; and Vasca, Inc., Tewksbury, 
Massachusetts.

Comment in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2002 May;13(5):1415-8.
    Semin Dial. 2003 Jan-Feb;16(1):1-4.
    Perit Dial Int. 2007 May-Jun;27(3):234-7.

Small-solute clearance targets for peritoneal dialysis (PD) have been based on 
the tacit assumption that peritoneal and renal clearances are equivalent and 
therefore additive. Although several studies have established that patient 
survival is directly correlated with renal clearances, there have been no 
randomized, controlled, interventional trials examining the effects of increases 
in peritoneal small-solute clearances on patient survival. A prospective, 
randomized, controlled, clinical trial was performed to study the effects of 
increased peritoneal small-solute clearances on clinical outcomes among patients 
with end-stage renal disease who were being treated with PD. A total of 965 
subjects were randomly assigned to the intervention or control group (in a 1:1 
ratio). Subjects in the control group continued to receive their preexisting PD 
prescriptions, which consisted of four daily exchanges with 2 L of standard PD 
solution. The subjects in the intervention group were treated with a modified 
prescription, to achieve a peritoneal creatinine clearance (pCrCl) of 60 L/wk 
per 1.73 m(2). The primary endpoint was death. The minimal follow-up period was 
2 yr. The study groups were similar with respect to demographic characteristics, 
causes of renal disease, prevalence of coexisting conditions, residual renal 
function, peritoneal clearances before intervention, hematocrit values, and 
multiple indicators of nutritional status. In the control group, peritoneal 
creatinine clearance (pCrCl) and peritoneal urea clearance (Kt/V) values 
remained constant for the duration of the study. In the intervention group, 
pCrCl and peritoneal Kt/V values predictably increased and remained separated 
from the values for the control group for the entire duration of the study (P < 
0.01). Patient survival was similar for the control and intervention groups in 
an intent-to-treat analysis, with a relative risk of death 
(intervention/control) of 1.00 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.80 to 1.24]. 
Overall, the control group exhibited a 1-yr survival of 85.5% (CI, 82.2 to 
88.7%) and a 2-yr survival of 68.3% (CI, 64.2 to 72.9%). Similarly, the 
intervention group exhibited a 1-yr survival of 83.9% (CI, 80.6 to 87.2%) and a 
2-yr survival of 69.3% (CI, 65.1 to 73.6%). An as-treated analysis revealed 
similar results (overall relative risk = 0.93; CI, 0.71 to 1.22; P = 0.6121). 
Mortality rates for the two groups remained similar even after adjustment for 
factors known to be associated with survival for patients undergoing PD (e.g., 
age, diabetes mellitus, serum albumin levels, normalized protein equivalent of 
total nitrogen appearance, and anuria). This study provides evidence that 
increases in peritoneal small-solute clearances within the range studied have a 
neutral effect on patient survival, even when the groups are stratified 
according to a variety of factors (age, diabetes mellitus, serum albumin levels, 
normalized protein equivalent of total nitrogen appearance, and anuria) known to 
affect survival. No clear survival advantage was obtained with increases in 
peritoneal small-solute clearances within the range achieved in this study.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V1351307
PMID: 11961019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Mol Pharmacol. 2002 May;61(5):1089-96. doi: 10.1124/mol.61.5.1089.

Post-transcriptional regulation of hepatic NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase by 
thyroid hormone: independent effects on poly(A) tail length and mRNA stability.

Liu D(1), Waxman DJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cell and Molecular Biology, Department of Biology, Boston 
University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Thyroid hormone [triiodothyronine (T3)] positively regulates NADPH cytochrome 
P450 reductase (P450R) mRNA expression in rat liver, with P450R transcription 
initiation being a key regulated step. T3 is presently shown to have significant 
post-transcriptional effects on P450R expression. T3 increased the size of 
cytoplasmic P450R mRNA by approximately 105 nucleotides 12 h after T3 treatment, 
followed by a return to basal levels at 24 h. Primer extension analysis and 
Northern hybridization with 5'-untranslated region probes revealed no change in 
P450R mRNA 5' structure with T3 treatment. By contrast, RNase H analysis 
revealed a transient, T3-induced increase in P450R mRNA poly(A) tail, from 
approximately 100 to approximately 205 A. This increase in P450R 
polyadenylation, detectable in the nucleus 8 h after T3 treatment and in the 
cytoplasm at 12 h, was transient and was reversed by 16 h, when the T3-induced 
accumulation of cytoplasmic P450R mRNA was near maximal. Actinomycin D blocked 
the increase in P450R poly(A) tail and the induction of P450R mRNA, indicating a 
requirement for ongoing gene transcription for both T3 responses. T3 treatment 
destabilized P450R mRNA in rat liver in vivo, as shown by the T3-dependent 
6-fold decrease in cytoplasmic P450R mRNA half-life, from a basal value of 
>or=16 h in uninduced liver to approximately 2.5 h, measured 24 h after T3 
administration. These findings demonstrate that T3 increases nuclear 
polyadenylation of P450R RNA as a transient, early regulatory response and that 
this response is temporally dissociated from the subsequent decrease in 
cytoplasmic P450R mRNA stability.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.61.5.1089
PMID: 11961126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Med Care. 2002 May;40(5):429-41. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200205000-00008.

State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs: equity and efficiency in an era of rapidly 
changing treatment standards.

Johri M(1), David Paltiel A, Goldie SJ, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. mira.johri@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: The 54 state AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAP) provide 
medications to HIV-infected persons with limited resources. Eligibility and 
coverage vary, raising concerns about health inequities.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the relative clinical and economic performance of ADAP 
programs.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A state-transition simulation model of HIV disease was used to 
explore the clinical consequences and lifetime costs associated with selected 
state policies. Clinical data came from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, AIDS 
Clinical Trials Group Protocol 320, and other published randomized trials. Cost 
data came from the national AIDS Cost and Services Utilization Survey, and the 
1999 Red Book. ADAP data came from National Association of State and Territorial 
AIDS Directors reports and interviews.
MEASURES: Projected life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, total 
lifetime direct medical costs, cost-effectiveness in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: ADAPs vary considerably in terms of formulary policies, health 
outcomes, expected costs, and cost-efficiency. Conservative projections, based 
on a cohort with starting mean CD4 count of 250 cells/microL, yield life 
expectancies ranging from 5.36 to 6.81 life years (4.69-6.01 quality-adjusted 
life years [QALYs]). Total per person lifetime direct medical costs range from 
$81,200 to $112,700; higher costs reflect increased spending on medications. 
Expected costs per QALY gained range from $7000 to $28,000. Under pessimistic 
assumptions regarding initial CD4 counts, drug efficacy, and discounting, the 
most comprehensive policy remains below $33,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Even the most comprehensive ADAPs constitute a cost-effective use 
of HIV care resources. A uniform, national ADAP formulary warrants 
consideration.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200205000-00008
PMID: 11961477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nurs Times. 2000 May 25-31;96(21):26.

Don't fear the reaper.

Salvage J.

PMID: 11962946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Urologe A. 2002 Jan;41(1):10-7. doi: 10.1007/s120-002-8225-1.

[The Frankfurt concept for health counseling for men].

[Article in German]

Bickeböller R(1), Busch O, Peters M, Jonas D, Binder J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Klinikum der Universität, 
Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, 60590 Frankfurt a.M. R.Bickeboeller@em.uni-frankfurt.de

The discussion on the difference between the sexes received significant impulses 
from the formation of feminist theory. Masculinity was interpreted in a rather 
morally negative manner. Masculinity continuously endeavors to achieve 
reproduction and self-confirmation. Competitive pursuit of hegemony is the 
preeminent pattern by which masculine identity is formed. Male socialization 
leads to externalization, which impedes the development of communicative skills. 
Males tend to lead a high-risk life-style, which instrumentalizes their body. 
Symptoms are less often interpreted as warning signals, reflected in a 
significantly reduced life expectancy in comparison to females. In view of the 
specific male socialization, the Frankfurt concept of "men's health counseling" 
attempts to create a professional atmosphere in which men seeking advice are 
offered the opportunity to consult a specialist on all topics of men's health 
anonymously and, for the moment, free of charge.

DOI: 10.1007/s120-002-8225-1
PMID: 11963769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2001;14 Suppl 5:1227-32; discussion 1261-2.

Prolactinomas in children and adolescents--consequences in adult life.

Duntas LH(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Unit, Evgenidion Hospital, University of Athens and Medical School, 
Greece. ledunt@otenet.gr

Prolactinomas in children and adolescents are rare. However, they represent, 
together with corticotropinomas, the most frequent types of pituitary tumors in 
adolescence. Most prolactin-secreting pituitary tumors are microprolactinomas 
but many, and particularly those in men, are macroadenomas. The clinical 
findings that would usually project into the adult life of patients, in other 
words the issue of transitory endocrinology from childhood to adulthood, are 
menstrual irregularities, infertility, short stature, osteopenia and/or 
osteoporosis, and sometimes psychometric abnormalities. The therapy of choice 
for both macro- and microprolactinomas is one of the new dopamine agonists, such 
as quinagolide or cabergoline. Recent evidence-based data have clearly promoted 
cabergoline as the first-line treatment. Cabergoline may normalize prolactin 
secretion, restore fertility in women and men. and induce tumor shrinkage. 
Today, transsphenoidal surgery should be considered only in patients with a 
large extrasellar extension.

PMID: 11964017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2001;14 Suppl 5:1289-96; discussion 1297-8.

Thyroid cancer in children and adolescents--consequences in later life.

Wiersinga WM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Academic Medical Center, 
University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. W.M.Wiersinga@amc.uva.nl

Thyroid cancer is rare below the age of 16 years, with an annual incidence of 
0.02-0.3 cases per 100,000. Papillary and follicular thyroid cancer in childhood 
and adolescence is more advanced upon presentation than in adults, as evident 
from a higher frequency of extra-thyroidal spread. The recurrence rate is also 
higher. Nevertheless, the prognosis for survival in children and adolescents is 
better than in adults; why this is so remains unclear. An approximately 30-fold 
increase in the incidence of thyroid cancer has been observed in children 
exposed to the fallout of the Chernobyl accident, especially in the age group of 
<1 year at the time of the disaster. Medullary thyroid cancer in childhood and 
adolescence occurs mainly as part of the MEN2 syndrome. Early detection by DNA 
mutation analysis and treatment by prophylactic thyroidectomy results in a 
potential normal life expectancy. Consequences in adult life relate to long-term 
complications of thyroid surgery, 131I treatment and TSH-suppressive doses of 
L-T4.

PMID: 11964025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Life Sci Space Res. 1978;16:77-82. doi: 10.1016/b978-0-08-022022-2.50015-0.

Thermoregulatory responses of unanesthetized rats exposed to gravitational 
fields of 1 to 4g.

Horowitz JM(1), Horwitz BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, University of California, Davis, California 
95616, USA.

Rats exposed to 2g environments (achieved by centrifugation) exhibit a decreased 
ability to maintain colonic temperature (Tco) when challenged with a 1 hr drop 
in ambient temperature (Ta). As an extension of this work the present study 
considers whether the altered ability to maintain Tco is proportional to the 
magnitude of the acceleration field in the range from 1g-4g, and whether the 
magnitude of the decreased thermoregulatory ability is related to the onset time 
of the temperature drop relative to that of the acceleration. Male, 
Sprague-Dawley rats were instrumented on the experimental day with thermistors 
for measuring Tco. The unanesthetized rat was then placed in a plexiglas 
chamber, positioned on a centrifuge 1.37 m in radius, and exposed to 1.5, 2, 
2.5, 3, 3.5, or 4g for 5-7 hrs. The exposure to reduced temperature (Ta = 
approximately 7 degrees C) for 1 hr began 3 hrs after initiation of 
centrifugation. These experiments indicated that the magnitude of the 
cold-induced drop in Tco was linearly related to the acceleration field. The 
effect of a specific stressor (cold) on the thermoregulatory system is therefore 
a direct function of the gravitational field.

DOI: 10.1016/b978-0-08-022022-2.50015-0
PMID: 11965664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nurs Times. 2001 Oct 18-24;97(42):26-7.

Everyone suffers, but women suffer the most.

Whyte A.

PMID: 11966115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nurs Times. 2001 Nov 1-7;97(44):29.

To Scotland's good health.

Mathieson A.

PMID: 11966165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Apr 22;162(8):921-8. doi: 10.1001/archinte.162.8.921.

Prophylaxis for human immunodeficiency virus-related Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia: using simulation modeling to inform clinical guidelines.

Goldie SJ(1), Kaplan JE, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Paltiel AD, Seage GR 3rd, 
Craven DE, Kimmel AD, Zhang H, Cohen CJ, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, 718 Huntington Ave, Second Floor, Boston, MA 
02115-5924, USA.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients receiving 
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) have experienced a dramatic 
decrease in Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), necessitating reassessment of 
clinical guidelines for prophylaxis.
METHODS: A simulation model of HIV infection was used to estimate the lifetime 
costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for alternative CD4 cell count 
criteria for stopping primary PCP prophylaxis in patients with CD4 cell count 
increases receiving HAART and alternative agents for second-line PCP prophylaxis 
in those intolerant of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX). The target 
population was a cohort of HIV-infected patients in the United States with 
initial CD4 cell counts of 350/microL who began PCP prophylaxis after their 
first measured CD4 lymphocyte count less than 200/microL. Data were from 
randomized controlled trials and other published literature.
RESULTS: For patients with CD4 cell count increases during HAART, waiting to 
stop prophylaxis until the first observed CD4 cell count was greater than 
300/microL prevented 9 additional cases per 1000 patients and cost $9400 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained compared with stopping prophylaxis at 
200/microL. For patients intolerant of TMP/SMX, using dapsone increased QALE by 
2.7 months and cost $4500 per QALY compared with no prophylaxis. Using 
atovaquone rather than dapsone provided only 3 days of additional QALE and cost 
more than $1.5 million per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Delaying discontinuation of PCP prophylaxis until the first 
observed CD4 cell count greater than 300/microL is cost-effective and provides 
an explicit "PCP prophylaxis stopping criterion." In TMP/SMX-intolerant 
patients, dapsone is more cost-effective than atovaquone.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.8.921
PMID: 11966344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. JAMA. 2002 Apr 24;287(16):2106-13. doi: 10.1001/jama.287.16.2106.

Survival of blacks and whites after a cancer diagnosis.

Bach PB(1), Schrag D, Brawley OW, Galaznik A, Yakren S, Begg CB.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes Research Group, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2002 Apr 24;287(16):2138-9.

CONTEXT: In recent years a theory that cancer biology is different in blacks and 
whites has gained prominence in reaction to epidemiologic observations that 
blacks have poorer survival than whites, even when diagnosed with cancer of 
similar severity. Yet, few studies have evaluated whether lower-quality 
treatment and shorter overall life expectancy due to a greater burden of other 
illnesses may explain the survival discrepancy.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the magnitude of overall and cancer-specific survival 
differences between blacks and whites who receive comparable treatment for 
similar-stage cancer.
DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE for English-language articles published from 
1966 to January 2002 that reported on overall survival for black and white 
patients treated similarly for cancer.
STUDY SELECTION: The abstracts or titles for 891 citations were independently 
examined by 2 authors. The full text was retrieved if the abstract mentioned 
both black and white patients, made some comment regarding either similarity of 
treatment received or presented an analysis based on the treatment received, and 
commented on survival. Studies were included if they included data for at least 
10 black and 10 white patients; specified the cohort ascertainment method and 
what measures were undertaken to minimize loss to follow-up; summarized survival 
of both blacks and whites using actuarial measures; presented outcomes within 
stage, adjusted for stage, or based on cohorts with balanced stage 
distributions; and specified that blacks and whites in the study received 
similar treatment. We identified 89 unique cohorts in 54 articles that met our 
inclusion criteria.
DATA EXTRACTION: Overall survival rates and hazard ratios (HRs) for death for 
blacks relative to whites were calculated. These were subsequently adjusted for 
rates of death due to causes other than the cancer under study to determine 
cancer-specific survival and cancer-specific HRs.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Results represent 189 877 white and 32 004 black patients with 
14 different cancers. Compared with whites, blacks had an overall excess risk of 
death (HR, 1.16; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.20). After correction for 
deaths due to other causes, the cancer-specific HR was 1.07 (95% CI, 1.02-1.13). 
Of the 14 cancers, blacks were at a significantly higher risk of cancer-specific 
death only for cancer of the breast, uterus, or bladder.
CONCLUSIONS: Only modest cancer-specific survival differences are evident for 
blacks and whites treated comparably for similar-stage cancer. Therefore, 
differences in cancer biology between racial groups are unlikely to be 
responsible for a substantial portion of the survival discrepancy. Differences 
in treatment, stage at presentation, and mortality from other diseases should 
represent the primary targets of research and interventions designed to reduce 
disparities in cancer outcomes.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.287.16.2106
PMID: 11966385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Feb;17(2):153-64. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02673.x.

Introduction of lamivudine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B: expected 
clinical and economic outcomes based on 4-year clinical trial data.

Crowley S(1), Tognarini D, Desmond P, Lees M, Saal G.

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Research and Development, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is associated with a significant burden of 
illness and treatment involves substantial health-care costs. This study 
estimates clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of lamivudine compared with 
other treatment scenarios for CHB, from an Australian health-care provider 
perspective.
METHODS: A two-step modeling approach depicted clinical progression of hepatitis 
B in hypothetical patient cohorts using three different treatment scenarios: 
scenario A, lamivudine and alpha-interferon (IFN-alpha) available; scenario B, 
IFN-alpha available only; and scenario C, no treatment available. Assumptions 
were based on clinical trials, published studies, a hepatologist's questionnaire 
and an expert panel follow up. One-year clinical outcomes and costs were 
estimated using a decision tree, while lifetime costs and outcomes were 
estimated using available clinical trial data for lamivudine (up to 4 years 
therapy duration) and a Markov model.
RESULTS: The analysis considered only patients with pretreatment elevated 
alanine aminotransferase levels > or = 2 x upper limit of normal. In the short 
term, the introduction of lamivudine is expected to result in almost 3.5 times 
more CHB patients receiving therapy (lamivudine or IFN-alpha) compared to 
IFN-alpha only (67% compared to 20%, respectively). Hence, scenario A 
subsequently doubled the seroconversion rate. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was $3341 Australian per additional seroconversion. Also, 
non-seroconverted lamivudine patients are less likely to progress to cirrhosis 
than those receiving IFN-alpha/no treatment. One-year progression to cirrhosis 
was estimated at 5.1% with scenario A, compared to 12.2% and 12.7%, scenarios B 
and C, respectively. From the long-term analysis, lamivudine is expected to 
increase life expectancy by years and reduce the lifetime risk of compensated 
cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma by 6%, 12% and 
12%, respectively. Additionally, the introduction of lamivudine decreases 
lifetime costs by $548, thus making it a cost-saving and life-extending 
strategy. In both short- and long-term models, worst case scenarios in 
sensitivity analyses still associate lamivudine with a favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
CONCLUSION: Introduction of lamivudine is expected to improve health outcomes in 
CHB patients, resulting in overall savings in health-care costs. In this model, 
compared with IFN-alpha only and no treatment, lamivudine allowed more CHB 
patients to be treated, increased the seroconversion rate, delayed disease 
progression and prolonged life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02673.x
PMID: 11966945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Feb;17(2):208-13. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02671.x.

Transplantation for cystic fibrosis: outcome following early liver 
transplantation.

Milkiewicz P(1), Skiba G, Kelly D, Weller P, Bonser R, Gur U, Mirza D, Buckels 
J, Stableforth D, Elias E.

Author information:
(1)Liver and Hepatobiliary Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, 
Birmiongham, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Life expectancy in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has 
recently improved due to numerous factors, including a multidisciplinary 
approach to their management. Prolonged survival may have led to an increasing 
impact of liver disease on the prognosis of CF patients. The aim of this study 
was to assess the role of liver transplantation in patients with CF.
METHODS: The factors influencing outcome in 24 patients (15 adults and nine 
children) with CF who have received single liver transplantation, triple 
heart-lung-liver transplantation (tx) or died while being assessed for triple 
grafting, were analyzed.
RESULTS: Median age at tx in single liver recipients (13 years) was lower than 
in triple graft recipients (21 years) and those who died (23 years). All 
patients who received single liver tx made an excellent recovery, including 
significant improvement of their respiratory function (mean forced vital 
capacity (FVC) increased from 61% before transplantation to 82% of expected, 6-9 
months after tx). Four out of five patients who received triple tx died (0-2 
months) after operation. On the basis of our retrospective review, we propose 
modifications to an existing scoring system for liver tx assessment in CF by 
scoring additional points for elevated white blood count, bilirubin, and 
impaired pulmonary function. These changes will need to be evaluated 
prospectively to confirm their predictive value.
CONCLUSIONS: Liver transplantation is effective therapy in young patients with 
cystic fibrosis, portal hypertension and hepatic dysfunction, and is indicated 
before a critical stage of deteriorating lung function is reached. In patients 
with both end-stage liver and lung disease, triple tx has a poor prognosis. 
Pre-emptive liver tx in younger patients with CF not only has a better outcome 
but improves lung function.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02671.x
PMID: 11966953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2000 Feb;23 Suppl 1:57-62.

[Economic evaluation of combined therapy in chronic hepatitis C].

[Article in Spanish]

Casado MA(1), Buti M, Fosbrook L, Esteban R.

Author information:
(1)Schering-Plough, S.A. Paseo de la Castellana, 143, 28046 Madrid.

PMID: 11968346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Mycorrhiza. 2002 Feb;12(1):1-5. doi: 10.1007/s00572-001-0144-7.

Saprobic potential of Tricholoma matsutake: growth over pine bark treated with 
surfactants.

Vaario LM(1), Guerin-Laguette A, Matsushita N, Suzuki K, Lapeyrie F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Forest Botany, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Yayoi 1-1-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, 
Japan. luminv@hotmail.com

Saprotrophic growth of Tricholoma matsutake isolates was investigated over Pinus 
densiflora bark fragments either on soil or on agar media. Preferential 
colonization of pine bark fragments by hyphae, in glucose-deprived environments 
suggested that Matsutake was able to extract some nutrients to sustain its 
growth. This was confirmed in glucose-free liquid nutrient medium, where bark as 
sole carbon source significantly stimulated (up to two-fold) growth of T. 
matsutake isolates. The addition of surfactants (Tween 80 and Tween 40) in 
liquid medium further stimulated mycelium growth over pine bark by up to 55%. 
Such growth stimulation was associated with a sharp increase in protein and 
beta-glucosidase excretion by hyphae in culture filtrates. As T. matsutake has 
some saprotrophic ability, the initiation and extension of Matsutake Shiro in 
forest soil might require simultaneously nutrients derived from the host plant 
and from soil organic compounds. Data reported here may contribute to the 
formulation of new culture substrates adapted to the co-culture of T. matsutake 
and its host plant under controlled conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00572-001-0144-7
PMID: 11968941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Emerg Med J. 2002 May;19(3):198-201. doi: 10.1136/emj.19.3.198.

An introduction to economic evaluation.

Goodacre S(1), McCabe C.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. s.goodacre@sheffield.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/emj.19.3.198
PMCID: PMC1725884
PMID: 11971826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2002 Feb;88(1):41-50.

[Femoral shaft fractures in the elderly treated by intramedullary nailing].

[Article in French]

Bonnevialle P(1), Laques D, Fabre G, Mansat P, Rongières M, Bellumore Y, Mansat 
M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Orthopédique et Traumatologique (Pr Mansat), Hôpital 
Purpan, place du Docteur-Baylac, 31052 Toulouse Cedex.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Little work has been devoted to femoral shaft fractures in 
the elderly, contrasting with the data available for proximal neck or 
trochanteric fractures. The purpose of this study was to determine the 
epidemiological and clinical features of femoral shaft fractures in the elderly 
from a retrospective series of 58 patients who underwent locked intramedullary 
nailing procedures with Grosse and Kempf (GK) or long gamma (GL) nails.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The series included 38 women and 20 men, mean age 83.6 
years, who suffered a fracture of the femoral diaphysis due to a fall at home 
(49 fractures), a traffic accident (8 fractures) or a high-energy fall (1 
fracture). Prior to the fracture, 10 patients had homolateral osteoarthritis and 
two had a contralateral hip arthroplasty. Twenty-six patients were in very good 
health, 19 had a history of cardiovascular disease, 9 had diabetes and 12 
suffered parkinsonian syndromes or dementia. The ASA score was I in 24, II in 23 
and III in 11. The diaphyseal fracture was isolated in 31 cases and associated 
with trochanteric involvement in 27. The upper third of the femur was involved 
in 37 cases, the middle third in 7 and the lower third in 14. Generally there 
was a simple spiroid subtrochanteric fracture line (36 cases), or a torsion 
wedge with or without a proximal extension. Mean delay to surgery was 1.9 days. 
Subtrochanteric fractures with a proximal line were stabilized with a GL (34 
nails) and diaphyseal fractures with a GK (24 nails). Mean duration of the 
procedure was 1.9 for GL and 2 hours for GK. In 22 cases (17 GL and 5 GK), a 
minimally invasive access was needed to achieve reduction or stabilization 
during reaming and insertion of complementary fixation (3 screw fixations, 7 
cerclages).
RESULTS: Six patients died before six months, 4 during the initial 
hospitalization. Twenty patients experienced general complications: 7 cases of 
phlebitis and 5 "end-of-life" syndromes. Infection occurred in 3 cases including 
one septic arthritis leading to a bedridden situation. A new fracture beyond the 
ends of the implant occurred in 2 others. The upright position was achieved 
within 31 days and total weight bearing within 69 days. Bone fusion was achieved 
at 4 months (mean). Six patients died between 6 and 12 months, giving a 20.6% 
mortality at 1 year. Clinical outcome at 12 months was available for 42 living 
patients: 21 were walking without assistance, 7 used a cane, 8 required crutches 
or another assistance device and 6 were bedridden.
DISCUSSION: The general and functional prognosis of femoral shaft fractures in 
the elderly is the same as for proximal fractures. These diaphyseal fractures 
can be individualized due to their characteristic mechanical and anatomic 
features: composite fracture with a rotation element involving the distal 
portion of the trochanter and the proximal quarter of the diaphysis. Several 
types of ostheosynthesis have been proposed for fixation. Locked intramedullary 
nailing has been found to be effective despite the difficulty in reduction, 
especially for particularly proximal fractures. There is a risk of iterative 
fracture in the transition zones between the femoral component and the 
