osteoporotic bone.

PMID: 11973534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2000 Nov-Dec;4(6):286-7.

Factors affecting end-stage disease quality of life. Physicians' prognostic 
predictions of life expectancy,

Leahy ME.

PMID: 11973768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Chirurg. 2002 Jan;73(1):57-64. doi: 10.1007/s104-002-8030-4.

[Aortoiliac reconstruction after kidney transplantation. Strategies to avoid 
ischemic damage of the transplant].

[Article in German]

Pfeiffer T(1), Böhner H, Luther B, Voiculescu A, Grabensee B, Sandmann W.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gefässchirurgie und Nierentransplantation, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Moorenstrasse 5, 40225 Düsseldorf. 
tomas.pfeiffer@uni-duesseldorf.de

INTRODUCTION: The rising life expectancy of patients undergoing kidney 
transplantation and the improvement in the function rate of the allografts have 
led to an increasing number of patients suffering from arteriosclerosis-related 
diseases of the aortoiliac arteries. In these particular cases, an interruption 
of the blood supply of the allograft is always necessary for operative repair of 
the aortic and iliac arteries. This means a high risk of ischemic damage to the 
transplanted kidney.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1987 and 2000, 1,076 kidney transplantations were 
performed in our department. During this time, 14 reconstructive operations of 
the aortoiliac arteries were performed in 12 patients (6 women, 6 men, average 
age 55.2 (45-71) years). Operations were indicated in patients suffering from 
occlusive disease with imminent extremity or allograft loss, and symptomatic or 
asymptomatic aneurysms with a maximum diameter of more than 4 cm. In patients 
presenting with thoracoabdominal (1) and abdominal aortic aneurysms (3), 
protection of the transplanted kidney was performed by axilloiliac or 
axillofemoral bypass. Hypothermic flush-perfusion of the allograft containing 
PGE1 and heparin was performed in seven of nine operations for occlusive 
disease.
RESULTS: None of the patients presented with a permanent decrease in kidney 
function, six patients showed temporary creatinine elevation, and in nine 
patients creatinine levels at discharge were lower than they were 
preoperatively. None of the patients died.
CONCLUSION: Reviewing all reported methods of allograft protection, we recommend 
a three-step strategy including sequential clamp technique (ischemia < 30 min.), 
hypothermic flush-perfusion (ischemia < or = 60 min.), and temporary 
axilloiliac/femoral shunt (ischemia > 60 min), depending on the expected renal 
ischemia time.

DOI: 10.1007/s104-002-8030-4
PMID: 11974463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. J Gend Specif Med. 2002 Mar-Apr;5(2):5-6.

Are men in danger of extinction?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 11974677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2002 Mar;39(2):145-8.

[A perspective in gerontology in the 21st century].

[Article in Japanese]

Omae T.

PMID: 11974930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2002 Mar;39(2):166-7.

[Studies on aging in the 21st century--interventions in physiological aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitani K.

PMID: 11974937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2002 Mar;39(2):197-203. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.39.197.

[Relationship between lifestyle activities and physical functions in elderly 
persons utilizing care facilities].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimada H(1), Uchiyama Y, Kakurai S.

Author information:
(1)Kitasato University Graduate School of Medical Sciences.

The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between 
outdoor-activity areas and physical functions such as muscle strength, postural 
balance, gait function, and to identify the physical functions related to 
accomplishment of outdoor activity in elderly persons utilizing outpatient 
rehabilitation facilities. Furthermore, we investigated the relationship among 
physical, social and intellectual activities and physical functions. The 
subjects were 265 elderly persons (average age: 80.3 +/- 7.0). They were 
classified into the indoor-activity group, neighborhood outdoor-activity group 
and long-distance outdoor-activity group, and functional differences among the 
three groups were examined. The Barthel index, one-leg standing time, timed 
up-and-go test and performance-oriented mobility assessment were significantly 
different among the three groups. These results suggested that physical 
functions have a close relationship with extension of the activity area. Based 
on 95% confidence intervals, elderly subjects with more than 95 points on the 
Barthel index seemed able to do neighborhood outdoor activities. Those who can 
finish timed up-and-go test in less than 18 seconds, and obtain 26 points in 
performance-oriented mobility assessment may be able to do long-distance 
outdoor-activities using a bus. Furthermore, it was found that physical function 
was largely affected by physical activity such as exercise habituation and house 
keeping. In conclusion the difference of the activity area as well as extended 
activities of ADL influenced the physical function, which was critical to 
prevent functional decline in elderly persons.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.39.197
PMID: 11974945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:1-13. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02077.x.

Genetic and environmental influences on exceptional longevity and the AGE 
nomogram.

Perls T(1).

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA. thomas.perls@bmc.org

To live beyond the octogenarian years, population and molecular genetic studies 
of centenarian sibships indicate that genetic factors play an increasingly 
important role as the limit of life span is approached. These factors are likely 
to influence basic mechanisms of aging that in turn broadly influence 
susceptibility to age-related illnesses. Lacking genetic variations that 
predispose to disease as well as having variations that confer disease 
resistance (longevity enabling genes) are probably both important to achieving 
exceptional old age. The AGE (aging, genetics, environment) nomogram is 
introduced as an illustrative construct for understanding the influence of 
environmental and genetic factors on survival to various ages, depending on 
variations in the hypothesized relative importance of genes and environment to 
longevity. The rapid rise in the incidence of centenarians could indicate that 
many more people than we originally thought have the optimal set of genetic 
factors necessary to get to 100 and beyond. Recent studies indicate the 
likelihood that such factors will be elucidated in the near future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02077.x
PMID: 11976180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:167-79. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02091.x.

Enhancing cognitive function across the life span.

Korol DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 
Champaign, Illinois 61820, USA. dkorol@uiuc.edu

Glucose administration regulates many neural and behavioral processes in 
rodents, including learning and memory. Given the important role of glucose in 
brain function and the safety of glucose as a treatment, we have investigated 
the effects of glucose administration in humans of different ages. In previous 
work, we examined the effects of early-morning glucose consumption on cognitive 
functions in elderly individuals. In this population, glucose enhanced 
performance on specific measures, particularly on those tasks where mild 
age-related deficits appear (e.g., verbal declarative memory). Interestingly, 
glucose failed to enhance cognitive functions in young adults. Our recent work 
has examined three issues related to glucose enhancement of cognition: First, is 
glucose effective only in reversing impairments or can it also facilitate 
performance in highly functioning individuals? Second, are glucose effects 
dependent either on time of day or on interactions with other meals? Third, are 
typical breakfast foods as effective as glucose in enhancing cognitive 
performance? Our findings suggest that glucose can improve memory in highly 
functioning populations as it does in populations with deficits. However, 
enhancement by glucose may require sufficient levels of task difficulty and of 
blood glucose. In addition, like glucose, early morning consumption of cereal 
can improve performance on some cognitive tests. These results have important 
implications for the nature of glucose facilitation of memory and for the role 
of dietary factors in performance of many daily activities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02091.x
PMID: 11976194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:214-37. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02095.x.

Programmed death phenomena: from organelle to organism.

Skulachev VP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioenergetics, A. N. Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical 
Biology, Moscow State University, Moscow 119899, Russia. skulach@genebee.msu.su

Programmed death phenomena appear to be inherent not only in living cells 
(apoptosis), but also in subcellular organelles (e.g., self-elimination of 
mitochondria, called mitoptosis), organs (organoptosis), and even whole 
organisms (phenoptosis). In all these cases, the "Samurai law of biology"--it is 
better to die than to be wrong--seems to be operative. The operation of this law 
helps complicated living systems avoid the risk of ruin when a system of lower 
hierarchic position makes a significant mistake. Thus, mitoptosis purifies a 
cell from damaged and hence unwanted mitochondria; apoptosis purifies a tissue 
from unwanted cells; and phenoptosis purifies a community from unwanted 
individuals. Defense against reactive oxygen species (ROS) is probably one of 
the primary evolutionary functions of programmed death mechanisms. So far, it 
seems that ROS play a key role in the mito-, apo-, organo-, and phenoptoses, 
which is consistent with Harman's theory of aging. Here a concept is described 
that tries to unite Weismann's hypothesis of aging as an adaptive programmed 
death mechanism and the generally accepted alternative point of view that 
considers aging as an inevitable result of accumulation in an organism of 
occasional injuries. It is suggested that injury accumulation is monitored by a 
system(s) actuating a phenoptotic death program when the number of injuries 
reaches some critical level. The system(s) in question are organized in such a 
way that the lethal case appears to be a result of phenoptosis long before the 
occasional injuries make impossible the functioning of the organism. It is 
stressed that for humans these cruel regulations look like an atavism that, if 
overcome, might dramatically prolong the human life span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02095.x
PMID: 11976198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:295-307. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02101.x.

Pharmacological interventions in aging and age-associated disorders: potentials 
of propargylamines for human use.

Kitani K(1), Minami C, Yamamoto T, Kanai S, Ivy GO, Carrillo MC.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Longevity Sciences, Aichi 474-8522, Japan. 
kitani@nils.go.jp

Past studies including our own have confirmed that chronic administration of 
deprenyl can prolong life spans of at least four different animal species. 
Pretreatment with the drug for several weeks increases activities of superoxide 
dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in selective brain regions. An up-regulation 
of antioxidant enzyme activities can also be induced in organs such as the 
heart, kidney, spleen, and adrenal gland, and all are accompanied by an increase 
in mRNA levels for SODs in these organs. The effect of deprenyl on enzyme 
activities has a dose-effect relationship of a typical inverted U shape. A 
similar inverted U shape also has emerged for the drug's effect on survival of 
animals. An apparent parallelism observed between these two effects of the drug 
seems to support our contention that the up-regulation of antioxidant enzymes is 
at least partially responsible for the life-prolonging effect on animals. 
Further, when a clinically applied dose of the drug for patients with 
Parkinson's disease was given to monkeys, SOD and CAT activities were increased 
in striatum of these monkeys, which suggests potential for the drug's 
applicability to humans. The drug was also found to increase concentrations of 
cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
(TNF-alpha) in the above rat organs. Together with past reports demonstrating 
that deprenyl increases natural killer (NK) cell functions and interferon-gamma, 
and prevents the occurrence of malignant tumors in rodents and dogs, the 
mobilization of these humoral factors may therefore be included as possible 
mechanisms of action of deprenyl for its diverse antiaging and life-prolonging 
effects. The potentials of propargylamines, (-)deprenyl in particular, for human 
use as antiaging drugs remain worthy of exploration in the future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02101.x
PMID: 11976204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:308-20; discussion 463-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02102.x.

Pharmacological interventions against aging through the cell plasma membrane: a 
review of the experimental results obtained in animals and humans.

Zs-Nagy I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology (VILEG Hungarian Section), University of Debrecen, 
Medical and Health Science Center, H-4012 Debrecen, Hungary. 
izsnagy@jaguar.dote.hu

As was shown in a recent review by this author (Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci., 928: 
187-199, 2001), oxyradicals cannot be considered only as harmful by-products of 
the oxidative metabolism, but living cells and organisms implicitly require 
their production. This idea is supported by numerous facts and arguments, the 
most important of which is that the complete inhibition of the oxyradical 
production by KCN (or by any block of respiration) kills the living organisms 
long before the energy reserves would be exhausted. This new theoretical 
approach not only helps our understanding of the normal functions of the living 
organisms, such as the basic memory mechanisms in the brain cells, but also 
helps in identifying the site-specific, radical-induced damaging mechanisms that 
represent the undesirable side effects of oxygen free radicals. First of all, 
these effects make the cell plasma membrane vulnerable and cause a series of 
intracellular functional disorders, as described by the membrane hypothesis of 
aging (MHA). The logical way for any antiaging intervention therefore should be 
to increase the available number of loosely bound electrons inside the plasma 
membrane that are easily accessible for OH(*) free radical scavenging. The 
present review summarizes the available knowledge regarding the theory of the 
use of membrane-related antiaging pharmaca, like centrophenoxine (CPH), tested 
in both animal experiments and human clinical trials. A modified, developed 
version of CPH coded as BCE-001 is also reported.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02102.x
PMID: 11976205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:330-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02104.x.

Therapeutics against mitochondrial oxidative stress in animal models of aging.

Melov S(1).

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, Novato, California 94945, USA. 
smelov@buckinstitue.org

During the course of normal metabolism, reactive oxygen species (ROS) are 
produced from within the respiratory chain of the mitochondria. These ROS have 
the capacity to oxidize and damage a variety of cellular constituents including 
lipids, DNA, and proteins. We have taken a genetic and pharmacological approach 
in delineating the range of molecular targets that can be oxidatively damaged by 
mitochondrial ROS. Specifically, we use mice that are lacking the mitochondrial 
form of superoxide dismutase (sod 2(-/-) mice) to better understand the possible 
phenotypes that can arise from mitochondrial oxidative stress. sod 2(-/-) mice 
can be used to test the efficacy of antioxidants, and more generally the 
efficacy of antioxidants against mitochondrial oxidative stress. We have 
evaluated superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics in this mammalian model of 
mitochondrial oxidative stress, and have shown a high degree of efficacy in 
protecting against ROS produced within the mitochondria. Similarly, we have 
employed the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to test the hypothesis that 
effective antioxidant therapy can prolong the life span of an invertebrate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02104.x
PMID: 11976207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:360-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02107.x.

The Maillard hypothesis on aging: time to focus on DNA.

Baynes JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA. baynes@mail.chem.sc.edu

Aging is the outcome of the contest between chemistry and biology in living 
systems. Chronic, cumulative chemical modifications compromise the structure and 
function of biomolecules throughout the body. Proteins with long life spans 
serve as cumulators of exposure to chemical damage, which is detectable in the 
form of advanced glycation and lipoxidation end products (AGEs, ALEs); amino 
acids modified by reactive oxygen, chlorine, and nitrogen species; and 
deamidated and racemized amino acids. Not all of these modifications are 
oxidative in nature, although oxidative reactions are an important source of 
age-related damage. Measurements of AGEs and ALEs in proteins are useful for 
assessing the rate and extent of Maillard reaction damage, but it is the damage 
to the genome that undoubtedly has the greatest effect on the viability of the 
organism. The extent of genomic damage represents a balance between the rate of 
modification and the rate and fidelity of repair. Damage to DNA accumulates not 
in the form of modified nucleic acids, but as chemically "silent" errors in 
repair-insertions, deletions, substitutions, transpositions, and inversions in 
DNA sequences-that affect the expression and structure of proteins. These 
mutations are random, vary from cell to cell, and are passed forward from one 
cell generation to another. Although they are not detectable in DNA by 
conventional analytical techniques, purines and pyrimidines modified by Maillard 
reaction intermediates may be detectable in urine, and studies on these 
compounds should provide insight into the role of Maillard reactions of DNA in 
aging and disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02107.x
PMID: 11976210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:452-62; discussion 463-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02115.x.

Time to talk SENS: critiquing the immutability of human aging.

de Grey AD(1), Ames BN, Andersen JK, Bartke A, Campisi J, Heward CB, McCarter 
RJ, Stock G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. 
ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

Aging is a three-stage process: metabolism, damage, and pathology. The 
biochemical processes that sustain life generate toxins as an intrinsic side 
effect. These toxins cause damage, of which a small proportion cannot be removed 
by any endogenous repair process and thus accumulates. This accumulating damage 
ultimately drives age-related degeneration. Interventions can be designed at all 
three stages. However, intervention in metabolism can only modestly postpone 
pathology, because production of toxins is so intrinsic a property of metabolic 
processes that greatly reducing that production would entail fundamental 
redesign of those processes. Similarly, intervention in pathology is a "losing 
battle" if the damage that drives it is accumulating unabated. By contrast, 
intervention to remove the accumulating damage would sever the link between 
metabolism and pathology, and so has the potential to postpone aging 
indefinitely. We survey the major categories of such damage and the ways in 
which, with current or foreseeable biotechnology, they could be reversed. Such 
ways exist in all cases, implying that indefinite postponement of aging--which 
we term "engineered negligible senescence"--may be within sight. Given the major 
demographic consequences if it came about, this possibility merits urgent 
debate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02115.x
PMID: 11976218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:466-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02117.x.

Oxidative stress and life span determination in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Honda Y(1), Honda S.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo 173-0015, Japan. 
hondas@center.tmig.or.jp

The free radical theory of aging proposes that oxidative stress is one of the 
determinants of an organism's life span. In Caenorhabditis elegans, genetic or 
environmental changes have been shown to modulate life span. Here we discuss 
whether changes in the generation and destruction of free radicals are 
implicated in these life span modulations. Changes in culture oxygen 
concentrations that are considered to reflect free radical generation perturb 
the life span. The life spans under high and low oxygen concentrations were 
shorter and longer, respectively, than those under normoxic conditions. 
Short-term exposure to high oxygen concentration lengthens the life span. This 
is considered to be the result of an increase in antioxidant defense induced by 
short-term oxidative stress. Mutations in genes such as age-1 and daf-2 that 
compose the insulin-like signaling network conferred oxidative stress resistance 
and an increase in Mn-SOD gene expression as well as life span extension.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02117.x
PMID: 11976220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:475-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02118.x.

Membrane fatty acid unsaturation, protection against oxidative stress, and 
maximum life span: a homeoviscous-longevity adaptation?

Pamplona R(1), Barja G, Portero-Otín M.

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Physiopathology Research Group, Department of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lleida, Lleida 25198, Spain. 
manuel.portero@cmb.udl.es

Aging is a progressive and universal process originating endogenously that 
manifests during postmaturational life. Available comparative evidence 
supporting the mitochondrial free radical theory of aging consistently indicates 
that two basic molecular traits are associated with the rate of aging and thus 
with the maximum life span: the presence of low rates of mitochondrial oxygen 
radical production and low degrees of fatty acid unsaturation of cellular 
membranes in postmitotic tissues of long-lived homeothermic vertebrates in 
relation to those of short-lived ones. Recent research shows that steady-state 
levels of free radical-derived damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and, in some 
cases, to proteins are lower in long- than in short-lived animals. Thus, 
nonenzymatic oxidative modification of tissue macromolecules is related to the 
rate of aging. The low degree of fatty acid unsaturation in biomembranes of 
long-lived animals may confer advantage by decreasing their sensitivity to lipid 
peroxidation. Furthermore, this may prevent lipoxidation-derived damage to other 
macromolecules. Taking into account the fatty acid distribution pattern, the 
origin of the low degree of membrane unsaturation in long-lived species seems to 
be the presence of species-specific desaturation pathways that determine 
membrane composition while an appropriate environment for membrane function is 
maintained. Mechanisms that prevent or decrease the generation of endogenous 
damage during the evolution of long-lived animals seem to be more important than 
trying to intercept those damaging agents or repairing the damage already 
inflicted. Here, the physiological meaning of these findings and the effects of 
experimental manipulations such as dietary stress, caloric restriction, and 
endocrine control in relation to aging and longevity are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02118.x
PMID: 11976221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Apr;959:508-16. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02120.x.

Can antioxidant diet supplementation protect against age-related mitochondrial 
damage?

Miquel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Alicante, E-03080 Alicante, Spain.

Harman's free radical theory of aging and our electron-microscopic finding of an 
age-related mitochondrial degeneration in the somatic tissues of the insect 
Drosophila melanogaster as well as in the fixed postmitotic Leydig and Sertoli 
cells of the mouse testis led us to propose a mitochondrial theory of aging, 
according to which metazoan senescence may be linked to oxygen stress-injury to 
the genome and membranes of the mitochondria of somatic differentiated cells. 
These concepts attract a great deal of attention, since, according to recent 
work, the mitochondrial damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and 
concomitant decline in ATP synthesis seem to play a key role not only in aging, 
but also in the fundamental cellular process of apoptosis. Although diet 
supplementation with antioxidants has not been able to increase consistently the 
species-characteristic maximum life span, it results in significant extension of 
the mean life span of laboratory animals. Moreover, diets containing high levels 
of antioxidants such as vitamins C and E seem able to reduce the risk of 
suffering age-related immune dysfunctions and arteriosclerosis. Presently, the 
focus of age-related antioxidant research is on compounds, such as deprenyl, 
coenzyme Q10, alpha-lipoic acid, and the glutathione-precursors thioproline and 
N-acetylcysteine, which may be able to neutralize the ROS at their sites of 
production in the mitochondria. Diet supplementation with these antioxidants may 
protect the mitochondria against respiration-linked oxygen stress, with 
preservation of the genomic and structural integrity of these energy-producing 
organelles and concomitant increase in functional life span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb02120.x
PMID: 11976223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nat Neurosci. 2002 May;5(5):387. doi: 10.1038/nn0502-387.

Brave New World revisited.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1038/nn0502-387
PMID: 11976695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. HIV Clin Trials. 2002 Mar-Apr;3(2):99-114. doi: 10.1310/H2CF-3KNA-Q3Y9-C3G1.

Management of chronic viral hepatitis in HIV-infected patients: Spanish 
Consensus Conference. October 2000.

García-Samaniego J(1), Soriano V, Miró JM, Romero JD, Bruguera M, Castilla J, 
Esteban JI, Gonźlez J, Lissen E, Moreno A, Moreno S, Moreno-Otero R, Ortega E, 
Quereda C, Rodríguez M, Sánchez-Tapias JM; Spanish Hepatitis-HIV Consensus 
Panel.

Author information:
(1)Hepatology, Hospital Carlos III, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain. javiersamaniego@eresmas.net

Co-infection by human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B and C viruses is 
quite common because they share similar routes of transmission. The introduction 
of highly active antiretroviral therapy has significantly improved the life 
expectancy of HIV-infected patients in the last few years. However, chronic 
viral hepatitis represents an emerging cause of morbidity and mortality in this 
population, either as a result of end-stage liver disease or as a consequence of 
hepatotoxicity induced by antiretroviral drugs. The main goal of the Consensus 
Conference was to establish specific recommendations for the management of 
chronic viral hepatitis B and C in HIV-infected patients. The role of orthotopic 
liver transplantation for co-infected individuals with end-stage liver disease 
was also assessed.

DOI: 10.1310/H2CF-3KNA-Q3Y9-C3G1
PMID: 11976988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Obstet Gynecol. 2002 May;99(5 Pt 1):771-6. doi:
10.1016/s0029-7844(02)01947-6.

Utility and cost-effectiveness of preoperative autologous blood donation in 
gynecologic and gynecologic oncology patients.

Horowitz NS(1), Gibb RK, Menegakis NE, Mutch DG, Rader JS, Herzog TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, 
Washington University Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate utility and cost-effectiveness of preoperative autologous 
blood donation in gynecologic and gynecologic oncology patients.
METHODS: Pheresis unit records were retrospectively reviewed to identify all 
women who performed autologous blood donation. Clinical charts were abstracted. 
Use rate (number of units used/number of units donated) and quality-adjusted 
life years were calculated. Statistical analysis consisted of chi(2), Student t, 
and Fisher exact tests.
RESULTS: A total of 106 women with benign (n = 63) and malignant disease (n = 
43) donated 143 units (1.4 units per patient) of which 126 (88%) were discarded. 
Fifteen patients (14%) were transfused a total of 24 units, 17 autologous (71%) 
and seven allogeneic (29%). Those transfused had a significantly higher 
estimated blood loss (700 mL versus 275 mL, P <.001), lower nadir hemoglobin 
(7.9 versus 9.6, P <.001), and longer hospital stay (4.9 days versus 4.0 days, P 
=.05). Despite similar estimated blood loss (370 mL versus 310 mL), the use rate 
for malignant versus benign disease was significantly greater (0.31 versus 0.07, 
P =.005). Radical versus nonradical surgery had a significantly higher estimated 
blood loss (620 mL versus 250 mL, P =.001) and use rate (0.26 versus 0.11, P 
=.001) as well. Estimated cost per quality-adjusted life years for autologous 
blood donation for each category exceeded $1,000,000.
CONCLUSION: Autologous blood donation is an expensive medical practice and does 
not guarantee that exposure to allogeneic blood will not occur. If pursued, it 
should be directed towards those who have a known malignancy or those for whom 
radical surgery is anticipated. Other methods of blood conservation may be safer 
and more cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(02)01947-6
PMID: 11978286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Obstet Gynecol. 2002 May;99(5 Pt 1):835-40. doi:
10.1016/s0029-7844(02)01971-3.

The economic value of medical research: is it worth the investment?

Peipert JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women and 
Infants Hospital, Brown University Medical School, Providence, Rhode Island, 
USA. jpeipert@wihri.org

OBJECTIVE: To provide a brief commentary regarding the economic evaluation of 
medical research by summarizing a recent report from the Mary Woodard Lasker 
Charitable Trust.
METHODS: A review of the report Exceptional Returns: The Economic Value of 
America's Investment in Medical Research was conducted. In this report, nine 
economists translated the accomplishments of medical research into dollars by 
placing a monetary value on better health and longer life. This manuscript 
focuses on implications of this report to women's health research.
RESULTS: After first isolating the impact of medical research from other gains 
unrelated to research and development, the increase in life expectancy due to 
advances in health during the 1970s and 1980s were worth $57 trillion to 
Americans. Gains associated with prevention and treatment of cardiovascular 
disease alone totaled $31 trillion.
CONCLUSION: Our nation's contribution into medical research provides a very high 
"return on investment." The likely returns from research are so favorable that 
the payoff from any "portfolio" of research investments would be enormous.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(02)01971-3
PMID: 11978296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Eur J Cancer. 2002 May;38(7):953-63. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00053-9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of colorectal cancer treatments.

van den Hout WB(1), van den Brink M, Stiggelbout AM, van de Velde CJ, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, PO 
Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. w.b.van_den_hout@lumc.edu

A concise overview is provided of the methodology of cost-effectiveness 
analyses, followed by a survey of published CEAs of colorectal cancer 
treatments. To gain credibility, the methodology applied in CEAs must be further 
improved. Costs are rarely estimated from the societal perspective, and little 
is known about how colorectal patients value their treatment and health.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00053-9
PMID: 11978520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. QJM. 2002 May;95(5):305-11. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/95.5.305.

The cost utility of bisphosphonate treatment in established osteoporosis.

Iglesias CP(1), Torgerson DJ, Bearne A, Bose U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences & Centre for Health Economics, University of 
York, York.

BACKGROUND: Hip fracture is an important and costly problem. Bisphosphonate 
therapy prevents hip and other fractures among women with established 
osteoporosis, but there are few published economic evaluations of this 
treatment.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of risedronate, a recently launched 
bisphosphonate for the prevention of fractures among women with established 
osteoporosis.
METHODS: A state transition Markov model of established post-menopausal 
osteoporosis based upon randomized clinical trial data was developed. 
Uncertainty underlying model parameters and outcomes was dealt with using 
traditional sensitivity analysis and stochastic sensitivity analysis to produce 
quasi-95%CIs. We focussed on patients aged approximately 75 years, since this 
population most closely matches the randomized controlled trial, and is typical 
of osteoporosis patients in the UK.
RESULTS: The baseline model of treating a cohort of 1000 75-year-old women for 3 
years with risedronate and then modelling the costs and benefits over their 
expected lifetimes, produced net savings of pound sterling 786 000 for the 
treatment group per 1000 treated women, (95%CI pound sterling 1.55m savings to 
pound sterling 47000 extra costs). Restricting the horizon of the analysis to 
only three years led to a small net cost of pound sterling 138 000 per 1000 
treated women (95%CI pound sterling 196 000 savings to pound sterling 477 000 
extra costs) with a net increment in Quality Adjusted Life years (QALYs) of 16 
per 1000 treated women. This resulted in a cost per QALY of pound sterling 8625 
per treated woman.
CONCLUSIONS: In this example, the use of risedronate therapy in 75-year-old 
women at high risk of hip fracture leads to an improvement in quality of life 
with possible cost savings. Restricting the analysis to a time horizon of only 
three years leads to a QALY gain at a modest net cost.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/95.5.305
PMID: 11978902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Apr;29(7):581-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703422.

The role of molecular monitoring in autotransplantation for non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma.

Galimberti S(1), Marasca R, Caracciolo F, Fazzi R, Papineschi F, Benedetti E, 
Guerrini F, Morabito F, Oliva E, Di Renzo N, Federico M, Petrini M, Torelli G; 
For GISL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Transplant and Advances in Medicine - Section of 
Hematology, University of Pisa, Italy.

Seventy-two patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were evaluated for the presence 
of molecular markers (IgH, bcl-1, bcl-2 rearrangement) on bone marrow, at 
diagnosis and after PBSCT, and on harvests in order to find a possible 
predictive role of minimal residual disease on treatment outcome. At diagnosis, 
41 (59%) out of 69 available bone marrows showed molecular involvement. 
Fifty-six percent of leukaphereses were involved, mainly indolent lymphoma (P = 
0.001) or advanced disease (P = 0.01). Ex vivo purging cleared only one stem 
collection out of 31 PCR-positive leukaphereses. Aggressive lymphomas showed 
both a longer overall survival (OS) (P = 0.03) and relapse-free survival RFS (P 
= 0.02) when transplanted with unpurged stem cells, whereas indolent NHL 
survival was not influenced by ex vivo purging. Twenty out of 26 samples taken 
during follow-up had bone marrow involvement at diagnosis. Of these, 15 cleared 
their bone marrow; both OS and RFS were significantly longer in the PCR-negative 
cases (P = 0.05 and P = 0.005). At 1 year after PBSCT, 75% of patients were PCR 
negative, with 50% molecular remissions; the relapse rate was 55% for patients 
still PCR positive vs 29% for those who were PCR negative. Thus, after high-dose 
chemotherapy, close molecular monitoring of MRD using qualitative PCR techniques 
seems to represent a reliable prognostic indicator.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703422
PMID: 11979307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Apr;29(7):615-20. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703426.

Prophylactic T cell infusion after T cell-depleted bone marrow transplantation 
in patients with refractory lymphoma.

Lee CK(1), de Magalhaes-Silverman M, Hohl RJ, Hayashi M, Buatti J, Wen BC, 
Schlueter A, Strauss RG, Gingrich RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology, Oncology, Blood and 
Marrow Transplantation, University of Iowa, College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, 
USA.

Fifty-two patients with refractory lymphoma were prospectively treated with 
prophylactic T lymphocyte infusion after T cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation, to induce graft-versus-lymphoma effect. Thirty-three patients 
had related donors; 19 had unrelated donors. After transplantation with marrow 
that had 0.8 +/- 0.4 x 10(5)CD3(+) cells/kg, T cells up to 1.75 x 10(6) CD3(+) 
cells/kg were given over 3 months provided > or = grade II acute 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was not seen. The cumulative incidence of 
grades II-IV acute GVHD was 69%. Twenty of 32 evaluable patients (63%) developed 
chronic GVHD. Ten patients (19%) died of GVHD. The Kaplan-Meier 5-year overall 
survival of all patients was 34%. On multivariate analyses, chronic GVHD was 
significant for relapse (hazard ratio of 1.7, P < 0.05), and for overall 
survival (hazard ratio 1.4, P < 0.001). Chemosensitivity was significant for 
relapse only on univariate analysis. Patients who developed chronic GVHD had 4 
years median survival, compared with 9 months in patients without chronic GVHD, 
P < 0.001. The study shows that patients with chronic GVHD have superior 
survivals, most probably related to a graft-versus-lymphoma effect, which could 
be modulated by prophylactic T cell infusion.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703426
PMID: 11979313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nat Biotechnol. 2002 May;20(5):432. doi: 10.1038/nbt0502-432.

Cloning similarities.

Baldini E.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt0502-432
PMID: 11981548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Hepatology. 2002 May;35(5):1172-8. doi: 10.1053/jhep.2002.33157.

Hepatocellular carcinoma and survival in patients with primary biliary 
cirrhosis.

Shibuya A(1), Tanaka K, Miyakawa H, Shibata M, Takatori M, Sekiyama K, Hashimoto 
N, Amaki S, Komatsu T, Morizane T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kitasato University School of Medicine, 
Sagamihara, Japan. ashibuya@kitasato-u.ac.jp

The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with primary biliary 
cirrhosis (PBC) is not well known. The aims of this study are to determine HCC 
incidence and survival, and to identify risk factors associated with these 
outcomes in patients with PBC. We collected information on 396 patients with PBC 
at enrollment and followed-up from 6 to 271 months. They were all negative for 
hepatitis B and C virus markers. HCC was detected by scanning with 
ultrasonography, computed tomography, or both every 4 to 6 months. Life 
expectancy (LE) was approximated with the declining exponential approximation of 
LE. A total of 14 patients developed HCC. The cumulative appearance rate of HCC 
in patients with advanced-stage PBC (Scheuer's stage III or IV) was 
significantly higher than that for patients with early-stage (stage I or II) 
(12.3% and 7.7% by the tenth year, respectively. P =.021). Proportional hazards 
analysis showed 3 factors are independently associated with the development of 
HCC: age at the time of diagnosis, male gender, and history of blood 
transfusion. Age, male gender, and advanced-stage PBC were associated with 
survival, but HCC development was not. The disease-specific annual mortality 
rate was estimated to be 0.008 for women and 0.028 for men with advanced-stage 
PBC. In conclusion, HCC develops in old patients with advanced-stage PBC, but 
HCC does not affect the patients' survival.

DOI: 10.1053/jhep.2002.33157
PMID: 11981767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Home Healthc Nurse. 2001 Sep;19(9):535-6. doi:
10.1097/00004045-200109000-00008.

The prognostication problem.

Head B(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospice and Palliative Care of Louisville, 3532 Ephraim McDowell Drive, 
Louisville, KY 40205-3224, USA. Bhead@hospices.org

Comment in
    Home Healthc Nurse. 2001 Nov;19(11):678.

With increased focus on end-of-life care; prognosis may be finally receiving the 
attention it deserves. Hopefully, this will result in further research, the 
development of effective tools, and adequate education and training related to 
prognostication.

DOI: 10.1097/00004045-200109000-00008
PMID: 11982190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Apr;17(4):374-81. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02728.x.

Changing disease burden and management issues for esophageal cancer in the 
Asia-Pacific region.

Law S(1), Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Esophageal Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Hong 
Kong Medical Center, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong.

The changing epidemiology of esophageal cancer in developed countries is from 
squamous cell type to adenocarcinomas arising from Barrett's epithelium and the 
gastric cardia. This has implications for management of this disease. Earlier 
diagnosis of cancer from screening high-risk patients with Barrett's esophagus 
is potentially possible, and mucosal ablation together with acid-suppressive 
therapies have been investigated to revert Barrett's epithelium in its 
premalignant stage. When a cancer has developed, the strategies of staging 
methodology and surgical approaches also differ from those applicable for 
squamous cell cancers located in more proximal locations of the esophagus. By 
contrast, in the Asia-Pacific region (with the exceptions of Australia and New 
Zealand), squamous cell cancers in the middle portion of the esophagus remain 
the main cell type seen. An overall increase in life expectancy has led to more 
elderly patients presenting with carcinoma of the esophagus. This is of 
particular importance when surgical resection is contemplated. Advances in 
surgical management, multimodality programs, and endoscopic therapies are most 
marked in recent years. Treatment for patients with esophageal cancer should be 
individualized. The choice depends on expertise and facilities available, tumor 
and patient factors, and local economics.

Copyright 2002 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02728.x
PMID: 11982715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Kidney Int Suppl. 2002 May;(80):78-84. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.61.s80.14.x.

Cardiovascular disease after renal transplantation.

Dimény EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, Sweden. 
emoke.dimeny@vll.se

Cardiovascular disease is a major hazard limiting the life expectancy of renal 
transplant recipients and the most frequent cause of late allograft loss. 
Patients with renal disease have usually been exposed for both traditional, and 
for them unique, risk factors over a prolonged period of time and may carry the 
burden of advanced atherosclerotic disease already at the time of 
transplantation. The observed survival benefit of transplantation is probably 
from elimination of the numerous uremia-related risk factors. However, 
immunosuppressive therapy and the chronic inflammatory state, together with 
genetic susceptibility and not infrequently impaired renal function, may bring 
about new potentially atherogenic conditions. Metabolic risk factors may 
jeopardize both patient and graft survival. Several observational studies 
provide evidence for the negative impact of preexisting metabolic abnormalities 
on long-term outcomes. Identification of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors 
may enable risk reduction also in renal transplant recipients. Results of 
ongoing intervention trials are awaited. The observed improvement of patient 
survival after renal transplantation during the past decade may reflect the 
increasing awareness and more optimal care of patients throughout the course of 
renal disease.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.61.s80.14.x
PMID: 11982818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Trends Parasitol. 2002 May;18(5):191-3. doi: 10.1016/s1471-4922(02)02253-5.

Updating the DALYs for diarrhoeal disease.

Guerrant RL, Kosek M, Lima AA, Lorntz B, Guyatt HL.

Erratum in
    Trends Parasitol 2002 Jun;18(6):281.

Estimates of global disease burden remain high on the international research and 
policy agenda as a forum for ranking health priorities. Within this, the quality 
of life or years lived with varying degrees of disability has been recognized as 
an important outcome that should be considered alongside estimates of mortality. 
Recent studies into the long-term consequences of diarrhoeal diseases on 
physical and mental development suggest that the disability adjusted life year 
calculations for these conditions could require updating.

DOI: 10.1016/s1471-4922(02)02253-5
PMID: 11983588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 May;57(5):B202-6. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.5.b202.

Fertility and life span: late children enhance female longevity.

Müller HG(1), Chiou JM, Carey JR, Wang JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Davis 95616, USA. 
mueller@wald.ucdavis.edu

The relation between fertility and postmenopausal longevity is investigated for 
a sample of 1635 women from a historical (17th to 18th century) French-Canadian 
cohort who lived past the age of 50 years. We find that increased fertility is 
linked to increased rather than decreased postreproductive survival. 
Postreproductive life expectancy extension is found to be tied to late births. 
This finding sheds new light on the cost of reproduction and may be viewed as 
supporting a new paradigm that states that reproductive potential drives 
remaining longevity. The emerging reproductive potential concept complements the 
well-established cost of reproduction hypothesis. Alternative explanations for 
the observed association are also explored. A specific finding is that the 
degree to which mortality increases for 50-year-old mothers as a result of 
senescence is closely tied to the logarithm of the age of their youngest child. 
For example, 50-year-old mothers experience a mortality decrease of 38% and an 
increase of remaining lifetime of 3.93 years for every 10-fold decrease in the 
age of their youngest child. This amount of gain in remaining life expectancy 
would apply to a mother with a two-year-old child as compared with a mother with 
a 20-year-old offspring. We also find evidence for the existence of vulnerable 
periods in human life history that are characterized by phases of heightened 
mortality and are found to be tied to reproduction and senescence.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.5.b202
PMID: 11983718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(3):204-9.

Preferences of urban Zimbabweans for health and life lived at different ages.

Jelsma J(1), Shumba D, Kristian H, De Weerdt W, De Cock P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Institute of Physical Education and 
Physiotherapy, Catholic University of Louvain, Louvain, Belgium. 
jjelsma@uctgsh1.uct.ac.za

OBJECTIVE: To determine the age-weighting preferences of urban Zimbabweans in 
relation to health care priorities.
METHOD: A total of 67 randomly selected residents of a high-density area of 
Harare participated in the study. Participants were asked "person trade-off" 
questions to determine their preferences in terms of the numbers of people of 
various ages who would be saved from death and from suffering a year of 
ill-health relative to the number of 30-year-olds who would be saved from these 
eventualities.
FINDINGS: The responses indicate that the value of averting a year of ill-health 
was judged greatest for 15-year-olds and was equal for people aged 1, 30, and 45 
years. The value of averting a death primarily reflected the expected years of 
life lost, but the influence of age-weighting was evident in that 15 years was 
the most highly valued age.
CONCLUSION: Although the age-weighting curves did not correspond exactly with 
the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) age-weights, Zimbabweans showed a preference 
for saving the lives of young adults. The GBD age-weights should be used to 
