favourably with extending screening to women aged 40-49 years (estimated at 
between $24,000 and $65,000 per life-year saved).
CONCLUSIONS: Women 70 years and over, in consultation with their healthcare 
providers, may want to decide for themselves whether to continue mammographic 
screening. Decision-support materials are needed for women in this age group.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2002.tb04405.x
PMID: 11999259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Vet Rec. 2002 Mar 30;150(13):408-11. doi: 10.1136/vr.150.13.408.

Decision analysis tree for deciding whether to remove an undescended testis from 
a young dog.

Peters MA(1), van Sluijs FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Utrecht University, The Netherlands.

A decision analysis tree was constructed to estimate the life span which might 
be expected for a dog presented with cryptorchidism at one year of age if it 
underwent a preventive orchidectomy or if it did not. The tree was constructed 
by using risk factors associated with cryptorchidism and data on the prevalence 
of complications after surgery from the literature. The expected life span 
without an orchidectomy was not significantly different from the expected life 
span after an orchidectomy.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.150.13.408
PMID: 11999278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Eur Urol. 2002 Jan;41(1):54-60; discussion 60-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0302-2838(01)00016-1.

Long-term safety and efficacy of a once-daily formulation of alfuzosin 10 mg in 
patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia: open-label extension 
study.

van Kerrebroec P(1), Jardin A, van Cangh P, Laval KU; ALFORTI Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of a new, once-daily 
(o.d.) prolonged-release formulation of the clinically uroselective 
alpha1-blocker, alfuzosin, in patients with symptomatic benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH).
METHODS: This is a 9-month open-label extension of a 3-month double-blind, 
placebo-controlled evaluation of alfuzosin 10 mg o.d. and standard alfuzosin 2.5 
mg, three times daily (t.i.d.), administered without dose titration in both 
cases. A total of 311 patients continued in the extension phase and all received 
alfuzosin 10 mg o.d. Efficacy was evaluated in all patients enrolled in the 
extension phase (n = 311). Safety was assessed in all patients exposed to 
alfuzosin, whether in the double-blind or extension phase (n = 360).
RESULTS: Mean international prostate symptom score (IPSS) improved 
significantly, from 17.1 to 9.3 (P < 0.0001), and mean peak flow rate (PFR) 
(assessed at through plasma levels) increased significantly, from 9.1 to 11.3 
ml/s (P < 0.0001), between baseline (i.e. beginning of the double-blind phase) 
and the endpoint of the extension phase. Quality of life (QOL) index also 
improved significantly, from 3.3 to 2.1 (P < 0.0001). Alfuzosin was well 
tolerated, with only 16 of 360 patients (4.4%) reporting adverse events 
potentially related to alpha-blockade (mainly dizziness). Ejaculation disorders 
were infrequent (0.6%) and did not show a relationship to treatment. The 
incidence of asymptomatic orthostatic hypotension was low (2.8%), and no age 
effect was identified.
CONCLUSIONS: Alfuzosin 10 mg o.d. provides effective relief from BPH, and 
clinical benefits are maintained up to 12 months. This study also demonstrates 
the satisfactory long-term safety of this formulation, and its safe use even in 
at-risk populations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0302-2838(01)00016-1
PMID: 11999466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Mar;54(5):707-26. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00104-6.

Women's health status in Poland in the transition to a market economy.

Wróblewska W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Demography, Warsaw School of Economics, Poland. 
wwrobl@sgh.waw.pl

Since 1989 Poland has been experiencing large-scale social and economic changes 
as a result of the reforms associated with the transition to a market economy. 
This study uses a 1996 Health Survey of over 20,000 women to examine the impact 
of the new socio-economic situation and of women's multiple roles on their 
health at the early stage of transition. We investigated the importance of 
selected economic, socio-demographic and cultural determinants in explaining 
differences in women's health status in Poland, focusing on education level, 
(un)employment, living conditions, marital status, smoking and life style. There 
are health inequalities between men and women in Poland based on life 
expectancy, chronic diseases and health self-assessment. Some of these, 
especially the large differences between life expectancy at working ages, may be 
attributed to the difficult socio-economic situation. The multivariate analysis 
of women's self-assessed health and morbidity from selected chronic diseases 
indicated substantial inequalities in health. Together with the behavioural and 
cultural risk factors recognized by medicine, such as obesity, lack of physical 
exercise and smoking, the paper shows the crucial role of economic factors in 
influencing Polish women's health. Women whose financial position is poor are 
more likely to assess their health as less than good, to suffer from respiratory 
and circulatory systems' diseases and report neurotic problems. Other factors, 
strongly connected with the transition process in Poland, which contribute to 
health problems are lack of employment and low educational level, particularly 
for younger women. Women's marital and parental status are also important 
predictors of some categories of health problems; however, their influence 
varies for women of different ages. Our survey also supports the thesis that 
loneliness in old age, defined on the basis of living in a one-person household, 
may be negatively correlated with health status.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00104-6
PMID: 11999488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Am J Cardiol. 2000 Mar 15;85(6):784-6, A9. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00864-4.

Plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 in adults with Down syndrome and 
protection against macrovascular disease.

Hopkins WE(1), Fukagawa NK, Sobel BE, Schneider DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Vermont College of Medicine, 
Burlington, 05401, USA. william.hopkins@vtmednet.org

In the present study we have shown that adults with Down syndrome have reduced 
plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 in blood compared with control subjects 
matched for age, gender, and body mass. Reduced plasminogen activator inhibitor 
type-1 may explain the low incidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease and its 
complications that are attributable to plaque instability, such as myocardial 
infarction and unstable angina, in subjects with Down syndrome, despite an 
ever-increasing life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00864-4
PMID: 12000063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(6):1-97. doi: 10.3310/hta6060.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of sibutramine in the 
management of obesity: a technology assessment.

O'Meara S(1), Riemsma R, Shirran L, Mather L, ter Riet G.

Author information:
(1)NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6060
PMID: 12000688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Cancer. 2002 Apr 15;94(8):2312-4; author reply 2314-6. doi:
10.1002/cncr.10464.

De novo establishment and cost-effectiveness of Papanicolaou cytology screening 
services in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

Levin CE, Sellors JW.

Comment on
    Cancer. 2001 Mar 1;91(5):928-39.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10464
PMID: 12001136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Isr Med Assoc J. 2002 Apr;4(4):268-71.

Developments in hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation in the treatment of 
autoimmune diseases.

Kozák T(1), Rychlík I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Hematology, University Hospital Královské Vinohrady, 
Prague, Czech Republic. kozak@fnkv.cz

Comment in
    Isr Med Assoc J. 2002 Apr;4(4):284-7.

Intractable forms of autoimmune diseases follow a rapid course, with a 
significantly shortened life expectancy sometimes comparable to that of 
malignant diseases. Immunoablative therapy, including high dose cytotoxic agents 
and hematopoietic autologous stem-cell rescue, was recently introduced as an 
aggressive approach to treat autoimmune diseases that have a rapid course and 
are resistant to conventional therapy. The most frequent indication for this 
type of treatment is multiple sclerosis, seconded by systemic sclerosis. The 
results of immunoablative treatment with documented responses in both diseases 
are encouraging. The data are mature enough to begin comparative randomized 
studies of immunoablative versus conventional treatment to validate the benefit 
of the aggressive approach. A randomized trial involving SSc was recently 
launched (ASTIS) and a trial involving MS is in preparation. Considerably less 
experience with immunoablative treatment has been gained in systemic lupus 
erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and other disorders with an autoimmune 
pathophysiology. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in humans 
offers more long-lasting immunosuppression than reeducation of lymphocytes. In 
fact, allogeneic transplantation may replace the whole immune system. However, 
this attractive approach is still associated with considerable morbidity and 
mortality and is not yet justified for treatment of autoimmune diseases. 
Non-myeloablative allogeneic transplantation and sub-myeloblative high dose 
cyclophosphamide without stem cell support are alternative approaches that could 
be explored in pilot studies.

PMID: 12001701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. JAMA. 2002 May 8;287(18):2355-6.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Annual smoking attributable 
mortality, years of potential life lost and economic costs--United States, 
1995-1999.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12001942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2002 Apr 12;51(14):300-3.

Annual smoking-attributable mortality, years of potential life lost, and 
economic costs--United States, 1995-1999.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the United States 
and produces substantial health-related economic costs to society. This report 
presents the annual estimates of the disease impact of smoking in the United 
States during 1995-1999. CDC calculated national estimates of annual 
smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), years of potential life lost (YPLL), 
smoking-attributable medical expenditures (SAEs) for adults and infants, and 
productivity costs for adults. Results show that during 1995-1999, smoking 
caused approximately 440,000 premature deaths in the United States annually and 
approximately $157 billion in annual health-related economic losses. 
Implementation of comprehensive tobacco-control programs as recommended by CDC 
could effectively reduce the prevalence, disease impact, and economic costs of 
smoking.

PMID: 12002168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 2002 Feb;36(1):28-33. doi: 10.1080/003655902317259337.

Treatment of patients with clinical T3 prostate cancer.

Aus G(1), Adolfsson J, Selli C, Widmark A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ryhov Hospital, Jönköping, Sweden. 
gunnar.aus@ryhov.ltjkpg.se

OBJECTIVE: To describe and evaluate treatment alternatives for patients with 
clinical T3 prostate cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Literature review with main focus on recent studies in 
order to include the impact of prostate specific antigen (PSA). The possibility 
of using neoadjuvant/adjuvant hormonal therapy in combination with surgery or 
radiation was assessed. Results were related to life expectancy, tumour grade 
and serum PSA.
RESULTS: M and N-staging is mandatory before treatment with curative intent. 
Watchful waiting is an option for selected patients but early hormonal therapy 
seems to offer some survival advantages. Standard 65-70Gy external beam 
radiation is not sufficient for these patients with extracapsular disease but 
better results are obtained with dose-escalation (beyond 70Gy) and/or adjuvant 
hormonal therapy. Radical prostatectomy may be an option for patients with long 
life expectancy and "early" tumours, neoadjuvant hormonal withdrawal is of no 
proven value.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with a long life expectancy should not be denied treatment 
with curative intent solely based on the finding of extracapsular disease.

DOI: 10.1080/003655902317259337
PMID: 12002354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Proc Nutr Soc. 2002 Feb;61(1):131-6. doi: 10.1079/pns2001139.

The paradox of improved antiretroviral therapy in HIV: potential for nutritional 
modulation?

Ware LJ(1), Wootton SA, Morlese JM, Gazzard BG, Jackson AA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition, Southampton General Hospital, UK. 
lware@shsint.co.uk

Chronic infection with HIV type 1 is associated with alterations in 
macronutrient metabolism, specifically elevated plasma lipids, glucose and 
reduced insulin sensitivity. These alterations are most severe in patients at 
the later stages of AIDS, indicating a relationship with disease progression. 
Recently, a metabolic syndrome, termed lipodystrophy, has been described in 
successfully-treated HIV patients in whom the altered macronutrient metabolism 
of HIV infection appears to be amplified markedly, with concurrent alterations 
in adipose tissue patterning. This syndrome presents a paradox, as before the 
development of highly-active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) the most severe 
perturbations in metabolism were observed in the sickest patients. Now, the 
patients that respond well to therapy are showing metabolic perturbations much 
greater than those seen before. The implications of this syndrome are that, 
whilst life expectancy may be increased by reducing viral load, there are 
concomitant increases in the risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and 
pancreatitis within this patient population. The aetiology of the syndrome 
remains unclear. In a collaborative trial with the Chelsea and Westminster 
Hospital in London we have used stable-isotope-labelled fatty acids to examine 
the hypothesis that treatment with HAART causes a delayed clearance of dietary 
lipid from the circulation, resulting in the retention of lipid within plasma 
and the downstream changes in insulin and glucose homeostasis. This hypothesis 
would indicate a role for low-fat diets, exercise and drugs that reduce plasma 
lipid or insulin resistance, in modulating the response to antiretroviral 
therapy in HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1079/pns2001139
PMID: 12002787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Qual Life Res. 2002 Feb;11(1):37-45. doi: 10.1023/a:1014401516011.

A new graphic for quality adjusted life years (Q-TWiST) survival analysis: the 
Q-TWiST plot.

Sloan JA(1), Sargent DJ, Lindman J, Allmer C, Vargas-Chanes D, Creagan ET, 
Bonner JA, O'Connell MJ, Dalton RJ, Rowland KM, Brooks BJ, Laurie JA.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. jsloan@mayo.edu

One of the challenges of interpreting a Quality-adjusted time without symptoms 
of disease and toxicity (Q-TWiST) analysis is examining the sensitivity of 
conclusions that may be drawn to varying values of the utility coefficients for 
days with toxicity and days after disease progression. We present a graphic that 
parsimoniously displays the impact on median Q-TWiST survival across treatment 
groups of varying values of the utility coefficients. The goal of the graphic is 
to present a concise Q-TWiST analysis. We use Zhao and Tsiatis (Biometrika 1997; 
84(2): 339-348) to adjust for the bias in Kaplan-Meier (K-M) estimates. The 
graphic contains bounds that approximate points for which statistical 
significance would be achieved by comparing the median Q-TWiST survival between 
treatment alternatives for each value of the utility coefficients. The plot may 
be generalized to compare Q-TWiST means, medians or percentiles across treatment 
groups. We demonstrate the application of the Q-TWiST plot through a re-analysis 
of a randomized phase III North Central Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG) clinical 
trial of recombinant Interferon-2alpha in patients with malignant melanoma. We 
explore alternative options to customize the graphic representation for other 
data sets drawn from several NCCTG clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1014401516011
PMID: 12003054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Invest New Drugs. 2002 Feb;20(1):133-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1014494503230.

Raltitrexed (tomudex) administration in patients failing multiple prior 
chemotherapy regimens in advanced colorectal cancer: a pilot study.

Tsavaris N(1), Kosmas C, Vadiaka M, Kontos A, Fotia M, Angelopoulou A, Vrizidis 
N, Soulla M, Sougioultzis S, Koufos Ch.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Laikon General Hospital, Athens University 
School of Medicine, Greece. tsavari1@otenet.gr

PURPOSE: To evaluate efficacy of Raltitrexed, a specific thymidilate synthase 
inhibitor, in patients with advanced colorectal cancer (ACC) failing multiple 
prior chemotherapy regimens (e.g. 5-FU+LV, CPT-11, etc).
METHODS: 20 patients with ACC; 13 males/7 females, median age 64 (range: 53-69), 
median Karnovsky PS: 80 (70-90), and sites of metastases; liver: 16, lung: 6, 
lymph nodes: 9, peritoneal: 8 and a life expectancy of at least 3 months, were 
entered in the present pilot study of Raltitrexed administration. All patients 
had progressed after prior chemotherapy with 5-FU+LV and subsequently CPT-11, 
and some had received further infusional 5-FU, Raltitrexed was administered at a 
dose of 3 mg/m2 i.v. every 21 days.
RESULTS: 3 patients obtained stable disease (SID), 15%, with tumor marker 
decline (CEA, CA-19.9). Time-to-progression was 4.8 months (2.2-7) and survival 
7.4 months (6.0-7.8). Toxicity was in general not severe and consisted mainly of 
myelosuppression; neutropenia (WHO) grade 2: 45% and grade 3: 22%, and anemia 
grade 1-2: 40%.
CONCLUSION: Response to treatment with Raltitrexed is limited in patients with 
ACC failing multiple prior chemotherapy regimens, however, a limited percentage 
of patients with SD derived clinical benefit.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1014494503230
PMID: 12003191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Int Psychogeriatr. 2001 Dec;13(4):439-50. doi: 10.1017/s1041610201007852.

Prevalence of dementia in an urban Indian population.

Vas CJ(1), Pinto C, Panikker D, Noronha S, Deshpande N, Kulkarni L, Sachdeva S.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research and Services Group, Holy Family Medical Research Society, 
Mumbai (Bombay), India.

Comment in
    Int Psychogeriatr. 2001 Dec;13(4):389-93.

This article reports the findings of a 3-year epidemiological survey for 
dementia in an urban community-resident population in Mumbai (Bombay), India, 
wherein the prevalence of all types of dementia was determined.
METHOD: The study was conducted in three stages. Stage 1: From a potential pool 
of 30,000 subjects aged 40 years or more, 24,488 (male = 11,875; female = 
12,613) persons completed self-report or interviewer-rated protocols based on 
the Sandoz Clinical Assessment Geriatric Scale, but 5,512 (18.37%) persons 
refused to participate. Scores on the protocol had a possible range from 0 
through 34. Stage 2: Persons with a score +2 SD above the mean were selected in 
this stage where the persons were screened for cognitive functioning using a 
modified and translated version of the Mini-Mental State Examination. 
Individuals who scored below the 5th percentile were included in Stage 3 and 
underwent a detailed neurological, psychiatric, and neuropsychological 
evaluation as well as hematological, radiological, electrocardiographic, and 
electroencephalographic investigations. Diagnoses were made jointly by a 
neurologist, psychiatrist, and psychologist using the DSM-IV diagnostic 
criteria. Subjects were also rated on the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale 
and assessed for activities of daily living.
RESULTS: One hundred five subjects with dementia (CDR > or = 0.5) were 
identified in this population of 24,488 persons. The prevalence rate for 
dementia in those aged 40 years and more was 0.43% and for persons aged 65 and 
above was 2.44%. Seventy-eight individuals had a CDR of > or = 1 yielding an 
overall prevalence rate of 0.32%, and a prevalence rate of 1.81% for those aged 
65 years and older. The overall prevalence rate for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 
the population was 0.25%, and 1.5% for those aged 65 years and above. AD (n = 
62; 65%) was the most common cause of dementia followed byvascular dementia (n = 
23; 22%). There were more women (n = 38) than men (n = 24) in the AD group. 
Increasing age was associated with a higher prevalence of the dementia syndrome 
in general as well as AD specifically.
CONCLUSION: In the population surveyed, the prevalence of AD and other dementias 
is less than that reported from developed countries but similar to results of 
other studies in India. Prevalence of the dementia syndrome increased with age 
and was not related to gender. AD was the most common dementia and the 
prevalence was higher in women than in men. Results are discussed with respect 
to shorter life expectancy, relocation of affected persons, and differences in 
the risk factors as compared to developed countries.

DOI: 10.1017/s1041610201007852
PMID: 12003250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Am J Gastroenterol. 2002 Apr;97(4):898-904. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2002.05606.x.

Biliary stents in malignant obstructive jaundice due to pancreatic carcinoma: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Arguedas MR(1), Heudebert GH, Stinnett AA, Wilcox CM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, School of Public Health, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-0007, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Obstructive jaundice frequently complicates pancreatic carcinoma and 
is associated with complications such as malabsorption, coagulopathy, 
progressive hepatocellular dysfunction, and cholangitis in addition to disabling 
pruritus, which greatly interferes with terminal patients' quality of life. 
Endoscopic placement of biliary stents decreases the risk of these complications 
and is considered the procedure of choice for palliation for patients with 
unresectable tumors. We used decision analysis with Markov modeling to compare 
the cost-effectivenesses of plastic stents and metal stents in patients with 
unresectable pancreatic carcinoma.
METHODS: A model of the natural history of unresectable pancreatic carcinoma was 
constructed using probabilities derived from the literature. Cost estimates were 
obtained from Medicare reimbursement rates and supplemented by the literature. 
Two strategies were evaluated: 1) initial endoscopic plastic stent placement and 
2) initial endoscopic metal stent placement. We compared total costs and 
performed cost-effectiveness analysis in these strategies. The outcome measures 
were quality-adjusted life months. Sensitivity analyses were performed on 
selected variables.
RESULTS: Our baseline analysis showed that initial plastic stent placement was 
associated with a total cost of $13,879/patient and 1.799 quality-adjusted life 
months. Initial placement of a metal stent cost $13,466/patient and conferred 
1.832 quality-adjusted life months. Among the variables examined, expected 
patient survival was demonstrated by sensitivity analyses to have the most 
influence on the results of the model.
CONCLUSION: Initial endoscopic placement of a metal stent is a cost-saving 
strategy compared to initial plastic stent placement, particularly in patients 
expected to survive longer than 6 months.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2002.05606.x
PMID: 12003425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2002;54(1):1-14. doi: 10.2190/9K7T-6KXM-C0C6-3D64.

Successful aging among the young-old, old-old, and oldest-old Chinese.

Chou KL(1), Chi I.

Author information:
(1)The University of Hong Kong.

In this study, successful aging was defined by four dimensions including 
functional status, affective status, cognitive status, and productive 
involvement status. This study examined successful aging among Hong Kong Chinese 
old people in three different age cohorts: young-old, old-old, and oldest-old. 
The respondents were 1106 people aged 60 years or older from a cross-sectional 
study of a representative community sample of the elderly population in Hong 
Kong. We found modest associations between four dimensions of successful aging, 
indicating the relative independence of these four criteria for successful 
aging. Using multiple regression models, we found that age, gender, years of 
education, number of close relatives, frequency of contact with friends, 
financial strain, number of chronic illnesses, self-rated health, hearing 
impairment, and life satisfaction were associated with the successful aging 
indicator.

DOI: 10.2190/9K7T-6KXM-C0C6-3D64
PMID: 12003497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2002 May;128(5):539-43. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.128.5.539.

Treatment of patients with spinal metastases from head and neck neoplasms.

Preciado DA(1), Sebring LA, Adams GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Minnesota, 
Box 396, Mayo Memorial Building, 420 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. 
preci001@tc.umn.edu

BACKGROUND: Spinal metastases are uncommon in patients with advanced head and 
neck cancer. Treatment strategies in this patient group have not been defined. 
Although it has been established that neurologic dysfunction in patients with 
spinal metastases and cord compression constitutes an oncologic emergency, the 
role of surgical treatment remains controversial.
OBJECTIVE: To clarify the treatment options in patients with head and neck 
cancer who develop spinal metastases.
METHODS: The clinical course of patients seen at our institution with head and 
neck neoplasms and spinal metastases from January 1992 to January 2000 was 
reviewed.
RESULTS: Eleven patients were identified. Nine developed spinal metastases more 
than 3 months after the diagnosis of advanced head and neck cancer. The other 2 
presented with synchronous spinal involvement and skull base neoplasms. Patients 
without neurologic symptoms were offered intravenous steroids and palliative 
radiation. Patients with neurologic symptoms were treated with either 
intravenous steroids and radiation or surgical decompression and spinal fusion. 
In 1 patient, no improvement occurred within the first 2 days of radiotherapy, 
and the patient underwent surgical decompression. Patients with an unstable 
spine underwent surgical decompression and spinal fusion. Patients with a life 
expectancy of more than 6 months and neurologic symptoms were offered surgical 
therapy. In the 9 patients with advanced cancer, the average survival time was 3 
months. Two of these patients have survived longer than 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose that surgical decompression is a viable, justifiable 
option for selected patients with advanced head and neck cancer and spinal cord 
compression. Furthermore, we recommend surgical decompression as a first option 
in patients with an unstable bony spine and/or in whom survival is expected to 
be longer than 6 months. Finally, we propose a patient management algorithm in 
these cases.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.128.5.539
PMID: 12003584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. BMC Cancer. 2002 May 10;2:13. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-2-13.

Jejunum free flap in hypopharynx reconstruction: case series.

Benazzo M(1), Occhini A, Rossi V, Aresi G, Alessiani M.

Author information:
(1)Dept, of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Pavia, IRCCS Policlinico S, 
Matteo, Pavia, Italy. m.benazzo@smatteo.pv.it

BACKGROUND: Surgical treatment of hypopharyngeal cancers with extension to the 
retrocricoid region generally requires a circumferential pharyngolaryngectomy 
followed by a reconstruction of the removed segment of the upper digestive 
tract. Historically, many techniques have been used in order to achieve a safe 
and functional reconstruction. Jejunum interposition is generally considered the 
best reconstructive technique.
METHODS: This study examines the details of the surgical technique, the 
complications, the oncological and the functional results in a series of 29 
consecutive patients submitted to circumferential pharyngoesophageal resection 
for advanced hypopharyngeal cancer followed by reconstruction with a free flap 
of jejunum.
RESULTS: Three of the transplants failed because of venous thrombosis. The 
overall success rate was 90%. There were no general complications. A good 
swallowing has been preserved in all our patients. All our patients where a 
phonatory prosthesis was positioned (20/29) were able to achieve speech 
following speech therapy and all were satisfied with their own capacity to 
communicate.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of hypopharyngeal tumours (18-40% at 5 years) remains 
poor, but jejunum autografts are being shown to be an excellent choice for the 
reconstruction of the cervical hypopharyngo-oesophagus offering the patient fast 
rehabilitation and a reasonable quality of survival. Our experience confirm that 
this kind of reconstruction is safe with a good results in improving oncologic 
controls and restoring a good quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-2-13
PMCID: PMC113753
PMID: 12003643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2002 Jun;4(3):228-31. doi: 10.1007/s11920-002-0034-5.

Neuropsychiatric aspects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.

Fernandez F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Loyola University Medical Center, 2160 South First 
Avenue, #54, Maywood, IL 60153, USA. fferna@lumc.edu

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection with central nervous system (CNS) 
involvement causes a variety of psychiatric complications among a significant 
proportion of infected individuals. A cure for the fully developed AIDS related 
to HIV infection remains elusive, and HIV/AIDS is a leading cause of death among 
adults between the ages of 25 and 44. Life expectancy, however, has gradually 
increased over the years, resulting in a concern for a potential increase in the 
incidence of secondary psychiatric manifestations. Knowledge of the 
neuropathology of HIV-CNS dysfunction and familiarity with its clinical 
presentation can aid clinicians in a determination of the appropriate therapy 
inclusive of psychiatric care that may be useful for a specific individual in 
their treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-002-0034-5
PMID: 12003687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2002 Jun;4(3):211-5. doi: 10.1007/s11906-002-0009-2.

Antihypertensive drugs and cognitive function.

Rigaud AS(1), Olde-Rikkert MG, Hanon O, Seux ML, Forette F.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Broca, CHU Cochin Port-Royal, Université René Descartes, Paris V, 
54/56 Rue Pascal, 75013 Paris, France. anne-sophie.rigaud@brc.ap-hop-paris.fr

The increase in life expectancy is associated with a sharp rise in cognitive 
disorders, particularly after the age of 80 years. The identification and 
management of risk factors for these invalidating and distressing conditions 
must be considered a priority. Hypertension has been shown to carry an increased 
risk not only for cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality, but also for 
cognitive impairment and dementia. The fact that antihypertensive treatment has 
been demonstrated to decrease those risks offers a new opportunity to reduce the 
prevalence of such related disorders and to promote healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-002-0009-2
PMID: 12003703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Science. 2002 May 10;296(5570):1029-31. doi: 10.1126/science.1069675.

Demography. Broken limits to life expectancy.

Oeppen J(1), Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure, Cambridge 
University, Cambridge, CB2 3EN, UK.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1069675
PMID: 12004104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Gen Dent. 2002 Mar-Apr;50(2):178-86; quiz 187-8.

Multidisciplinary diagnosis and management of orofacial pain.

Gremillion HA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics at the University of Florida College of Dentistry, 
Gainesville, USA.

Dentistry has enjoyed a remarkable period of technological and scientific growth 
over the past several decades. With the increase in life expectancy, the number 
of individuals seeking dental care also has escalated. One of the most common 
reasons for seeking care is because of pain and/or dysfunction, usually 
involving the teeth or periodontal tissues. However, musculoskeletal, vascular, 
and neuropathic causes of orofacial pain occur frequently. The need to 
understand pain and all of its ramifications is of utmost importance in 
diagnosis and case-specific, evidence-based management of conditions afflicting 
the masticatory system. This article reviews current concepts with regard to the 
multiple etiologic and/or perpetuating factors now thought to be associated with 
myogenous and arthrogenous orofacial pain. Important distinctions between acute 
and chronic pain are discussed. The rationale for consideration of 
multidisciplinary evaluation and management is highlighted.

PMID: 12004713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Feb;13(1):38-43. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130104.x.

A long-term follow-up of 76 Bränemark single-tooth implants.

Haas R(1), Polak C, Fürhauser R, Mailath-Pokorny G, Dörtbudak O, Watzek G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Dental School, University of Vienna, Austria. 
robert.haas@univie.ac.at

In a previous study (Haas et al. 1995), we reported on preliminary results of 76 
Brånemark implants placed in 71 patients with single-tooth gaps. The present 
study examines the results of the same group over a longer period of time: 55 
implants were followed for more than 5 years, 12 for a period between 4 and 5 
years and 1 implant for 46 months. One patient died 3 years after implant 
placement. Five patients lost their implant within 24 months after insertion. 
The drop-out rate was 2 implants in 2 patients. The recall rate was thus 97%. Of 
the 5 implant failures, 2 were located in the maxilla and 3 in the mandible. The 
Kaplan-Meier survival probability was 93% after 120 months. 74% of the sites 
showed healthy peri-implant soft tissue conditions. At 15 implants (22%) a bone 
resorption of more than 2 mm was observed on intraoral radiographs. The mean 
bone resorption was 1.8 mm in the maxilla and 1.3 mm in the mandible and did not 
increase with time (Pearson correlation coefficient: r = -0.06, P = 0.59). 
Abutment loosening occurred in 7 implants (10%), however all abutments that were 
fixed with a defined torque subsequently remained stable. Thus the favourable 
preliminary results could be maintained over an average 66 months, indicating 
that if implant loss happens it seems to occur during the first 2 years after 
insertion.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130104.x
PMID: 12005143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Chest. 2002 May;121(5):1507-14. doi: 10.1378/chest.121.5.1507.

Screening for lung cancer with CT: a preliminary cost-effectiveness analysis.

Chirikos TN(1), Hazelton T, Tockman M, Clark R.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute at the University of 
South Florida, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

Comment in
    Chest. 2002 May;121(5):1388-90.
    Chest. 2003 Feb;123(2):653; author reply 654-5.
    Chest. 2003 Feb;123(2):653-4; author reply 654-5.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To appraise the potential cost-effectiveness of lung cancer 
screening with CT.
STUDY DESIGN: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are estimated for two 
hypothetical cohorts followed up over time. One cohort was screened over the 
first 5 years of the study period; the other cohort received usual care. Cost 
streams are projected for each cohort under alternative sets of parameters/ 
assumptions and from the perspective of national payer groups. Cohort cost 
differentials arise as a result of screening and variations in stage-specific 
treatment. Cohort life expectancies are also projected, and they too differ as a 
consequence of variations in the stage distribution at diagnosis. The ratios of 
these cost and life-expectancy differences are used to judge the expected 
economic value of screening.
RESULTS: Results are analyzed for a "worst-case" scenario, ie, with the highest 
cost and lowest yield assumptions. Under these conditions, screening with CT 
costs approximately $48,000 per life-year gained, if screening results in 50% of 
lung cancers detected at localized stage. Smaller proportions of cancer detected 
at a localized stage result in higher cost-effectiveness ratios, and vice versa.
CONCLUSION: If screening for lung cancer is effective, it is likely to be 
cost-effective if the screening process can detect > 50% of cancers at localized 
stage.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.121.5.1507
PMID: 12006436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Sheng Wu Hua Xue Yu Sheng Wu Wu Li Xue Bao (Shanghai). 2002
Mar;34(2):248-52.

[Functional di-domain of neuronal growth inhibitory factor].

[Article in Chinese]

Ji QZ(1), Kang QU, Zhou YJ, Ren HW, Ru BG.

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Protein Engineering, College of Life Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing 100871, China. rulab@pku.edu.cn

Neuronal growth inhibitory factor (GIF), known also as metallothionein-III 
(MT-III), was the first validated to be capable of inhibiting growth of neuronal 
cells in nervous system, its beta-domain being functional. GIF functional 
di-domain (GIFbeta- beta) was constructed to study the structure and function of 
GIF. N terminal beta-domain and C terminal beta-domain cDNAs were amplified by 
PCR, inserted into vector pGEX-4T-1 and expressed in Escherichia coli, as 
carboxyl terminal extension of glutathione-S-transferase (GST), by IPTG 
induction. After digestion by thrombin, the fusion protein was isolated by 
passing through a glutathione-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography column and 
was purified by gel fit ration on Sephacryl-S100. About 60 mg protein per liter 
of bacterial cell culture was achieved. The results of SDS-PAGE, amino acid 
composition, molecular mass, the ratio of metal/protein and sulfhydryl 
group/protein showed that the purified protein was the GIFbeta- beta. Circular 
dichroism (CD) spectroscopy show GIFbeta- beta has characteristic 
metal-sulfhydryl clusters of metallothionein family. Inhibitory activities 
detected by the MTT reduction assay are: GIF > GIFbeta-beta > GIF beta-domain.

PMID: 12007006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Health Econ. 2002 Jun;11(4):341-53. doi: 10.1002/hec.673.

Estimating an EQ-5D population value set: the case of Japan.

Tsuchiya A(1), Ikeda S, Ikegami N, Nishimura S, Sakai I, Fukuda T, Hamashima C, 
Hisashige A, Tamura M.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK. 
a.tsuchiya@sheffield.ac.uk

Quality adjustment weights for quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are available 
with the EQ-5D Instrument, which are based on a survey that quantified the 
preferences of the British public. However, the extent to which this British 
value set is applicable to other, especially non-European, countries is yet 
unclear. The objectives of this study are (a) to compare the valuations obtained 
in Japan and Britain, and (b) to explore a local Japanese value set. A 
diminished study design is employed, where 17 hypothetical EQ-5D health states 
are evaluated as opposed to 42 in the British study. The official Japanese 
version of the instrument and the Time Trade-Off method are used to interview 
543 members of the public. The results are: firstly, the evaluations obtained in 
Japan and those from Britain differ by 0.24 on average on a [-1, +1] scale, and 
mean absolute error (MAE) in predicting the Japanese preferences with the 
British value set is 0.23. Secondly, comparable regressions suggest that the two 
peoples have systematically different preference structures (p<0.001 for 8 of 12 
coefficients; F-test). Thirdly, using alternative models, the predictions are 
improved so that the local Japanese value set achieves MAE in the order of 0.01.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.673
PMID: 12007165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Health Econ. 2002 Jun;11(4):355-70. doi: 10.1002/hec.674.

Discounting and clinical decision making: physicians, patients, the general 
public, and the management of asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Höjgård S(1), Enemark U, Lyttkens CH, Lindgren A, Troëng T, Weibull H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Health Economics and Biostatistics, Malmö, 
Sweden. soren.hojgard@luche.lu.se

Clinical decisions often entail in intertemporal trade-off. Moreover, they often 
involve physicians of different specialities. In an experiment dealing with the 
management of small asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms (a clinically 
relevant problem) we find that specialists in internal medicine exhibit higher 
implicit discount rates than vascular surgeons, general practitioners, and 
actual and prospective patients. Several personal characteristics expected to be 
directly related to pure time-preference and risk aversion (gender, smoking 
habits, age, place of employment) have the hypothesised effects. Additionally, 
financial incentives appear to affect the estimated implicit discount rates of 
physicians, but are unlikely to have caused the inter-group differences. 
Differences in discount rates could lead to variations in clinical practice, 
which may conflict with equality of treatment or equal access to health care.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.674
PMID: 12007166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Leuk Res. 2002 Jul;26(7):621-9. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00184-9.

Potential mechanisms of resistance to cytarabine in AML patients.

Galmarini CM(1), Thomas X, Calvo F, Rousselot P, El Jafaari A, Cros E, Dumontet 
C.

Author information:
(1)Unité INSERM 453, Laboratoire de Cytologie Analytique, Faculté de Médecine 
Rockefeller, 8, avenue Rockefeller, 69373 Lyon Cedex 08, France. 
fgalma@rockefeller.univ-lyon.fr

To determine whether the human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (hENT1), 
deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), cytoplasmic 5'-nucleotidase (5NT), cytidine 
deaminase (CDD), topoisomerase I (TOPO I) and topoisomerase II alpha (TOPO II) 
are involved in clinical resistance to cytarabine (ara-C), we analyzed the level 
of expression of these parameters by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain 
reaction (rt-PCR), at diagnosis in the blast cells of 77 acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML) patients treated with ara-C, including 31 for whom samples were collected 
at first relapse. By univariate and/or multivariate analyses, patients with 
expression of 5NT or hENT1 deficiency at diagnosis had significantly shorter 
disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). These results suggest 
that expression of 5NT and reduced hENT1 in leukemic blasts at diagnosis are 
correlated with clinical outcome and may play a role in resistance mechanisms to 
ara-C in patients with AML.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00184-9
PMID: 12008078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Leuk Res. 2002 Jul;26(7):643-9. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00188-6.

CD56 expression predicts occurrence of CNS disease in acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia.

Ravandi F(1), Cortes J, Estrov Z, Thomas D, Giles FJ, Huh YO, Pierce S, O'Brien 
S, Faderl S, Kantarjian HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, University of Illinois, Chicago, IL, USA.

We examined the pre-treatment bone marrow samples from 200 consecutive adult 
patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated on various protocols at 
the University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1986 and 1998. 
Standard MFC techniques were used to determine CD56 expression on the leukemia 
blasts cells. The expression of CD56 was correlated with clinical 
characteristics at diagnosis, response to therapy, survival and disease-free 
survival. Blast expression of CD56 (> or = 20% of leukemic blasts) was seen in 
16 (8%) of patients, with a median expression of 67% (range 20-99%). CD56 
expression was associated with a higher incidence of central nervous system 
(CNS) disease at diagnosis (19% versus 4%; P=0.016). Incidence of CNS disease at 
any time was higher in patients with CD56+ disease (31% versus 14%; P=0.057). 
Among the 109 patients uniformly treated with the hyperCVAD regimen, CD56 
expression was associated with a statistically significant higher incidence of 
CNS disease (33% versus 9%; P=0.026). CD56 expression in ALL is uncommon but may 
predict a higher risk for CNS disease. If these results are confirmed, CD56 
expression could be used in combination with other high-risk features (e.g. 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), S-phase fraction, mature B-cell phenotype) to 
design a risk-oriented approach to CNS prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00188-6
PMID: 12008081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Leuk Res. 2002 Jul;26(7):701-2. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00168-0.

Angiogenesis in multiple myeloma.

Sezer O, Niemöller K, Jakob C, Heider U.

Comment on
    Leuk Res. 2001 Aug;25(8):639-45.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(01)00168-0
PMID: 12008091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Thromb Haemost. 2002 Apr;87(4):575-9.

Venous thrombosis in patients with solid tumors: determination of frequency and 
characteristics.

Sallah S(1), Wan JY, Nguyen NP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis 38103, USA. ssallah@utmem.edu

Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are well recognized 
complications of cancer. However, our current knowledge of this association is 
derived from studies conducted more than a decade ago. In light of the changes 
in medical practice and the improvement in cancer care in recent years, a 
re-evaluation of the relationship between malignancy and venous thrombosis is in 
order. Of a total of 1041 patients with solid tumors admitted to 3 major medical 
centers, there were 81 (7.8%) diagnosed with DVT/PE. Patients were more likely 
to develop DVT/PE during chemotherapy (p = .0001). Advanced malignancies (p = 
.001), renal carcinoma (p = .005), pancreatic (p = .001), gastric (p = .014) and 
brain tumors (p = .001) were independent variables strongly associated with the 
occurrence of venous thrombosis. The occurrence of thrombotic events in the 
population tested in this study did not adversely affect survival (p = .082). 
The study identifies subset of patients with cancer at high risk for venous 
thrombosis. Early prophylaxis with anticoagulants in these patients may be 
warranted. Most importantly, further clinical trials are desperately awaited to 
detect possible new trends in the frequency and types of thrombotic events and 
to better define prevention strategies in cancer patients at risk for 
thrombosis. The association between venous thromboembolic disease (VTD) and 
malignant neoplastic disorders is well known and has been the subject of several 
reports for more than a century. There is a general agreement among 
investigators that thrombotic complications in patients with cancer occur at a 
rather high frequency, and that other circumstantial factors such as surgery or 
chemotherapy potentiates this risk. However, several important considerations 
pertaining to cancer and thrombosis continue to be shrouded in controversy. For 
example, there are inexplicable differences in the proportion of patients with 
cancer diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) 
reported in the literature. In the absence of large well-controlled studies, one 
may only postulate on the reasons that contributed to these differences. The 
inclusion of different types of VTD such as superficial, venous, arterial or 
vascular access device-induced thrombosis may have led to overestimation of the 
incidence of these events in patients with underlying malignancy. Another 
possible explanation for this discrepancy relates to the use of a variety of 
diagnostic and methodological criteria ranging from observation and clinical 
suspicion to more invasive procedures resulting in considerable differences in 
the rate of reported clotting events. Along the same line of discussion, one may 
argue whether VTD is a random event or constitutes a complication that occurs 
more commonly in patients with distinct characteristics and certain tumor types. 
To further investigate the association between malignancy and thrombosis, we 
evaluated 1041 patients with solid tumors for the risk of DVT/PE. The main 
objectives of the study were to determine the frequency of DVT/PE based on 
validated diagnostic criteria and to identify patients with cancer at high risk 
for developing these thrombotic episodes. Also, we evaluated the impact of VTD 
on the survival of these patients.

PMID: 12008937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Resuscitation. 2002 May;53(2):159-65. doi: 10.1016/s0300-9572(02)00006-0.

Towards new models of cardiopulmonary resuscitation teaching: the role of 
practical scenario training on surf lifesavers' perceptions of resuscitation 
efficacy.

Faddy SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, Darlinghurst, NSW, Australia. 
sfaddy@health.usyd.edu.au

INTRODUCTION: Surf lifesavers in Australia undertake numerous resuscitation 
scenarios in the course of their training and examination. The standard teaching 
and examination strategy is for the scenario to end with return of spontaneous 
circulation (ROSC) and then breathing. This study was performed to assess the 
