effect of this training technique on lifesavers' expectation of successful 
resuscitation and to determine the effect of experience on these expectations.
METHODS: Participants were lifesavers from Surf Life Saving Sydney Northern 
Beaches (SLSSNB). Data was collected by questionnaire. Questionnaires were 
applied to newly qualified lifesavers, a random sample of patrolling lifesavers 
and a strategic group of lifesavers with extensive experience in resuscitation. 
Anticipation of ROSC was recorded on a visual analogue scale (VAS).
RESULTS: The mean VAS for the expected likelihood of successful resuscitation 
was 55.0+/-19.2% (95% CI: 51.3-58.6%). Published rates of ROSC range from 9 to 
36.4%. Nearly 80% of our respondents expected better than 36.4% chance of ROSC. 
There was no difference in anticipation of ROSC between the three groups 
(F=0.41; 2,99df; P=0.67). Time since learning cardiopulmonary resuscitation 
(CPR) did not affect the expectancy of ROSC (F=0.92; 5,101df; P=0.47). 
Similarly, the number of resuscitations performed by an individual did not 
affect anticipation of successful outcome (F=0.13; 3,102df; P=0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: Surf lifesavers in the Sydney Northern Beaches branch have an 
exaggerated expectation of the chances of successful CPR following cardiac 
arrest. This expectation did not change with time since learning CPR or 
participation in actual resuscitations. New models for CPR education need to be 
investigated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-9572(02)00006-0
PMID: 12009219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Fertil Steril. 2002 May;77(5):1065-8. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(02)02957-6.

Randomized trial of one versus two transcervical insertions of quinacrine 
pellets for sterilization.

Agoestina T(1), Hoesni RH, Purwara BH, Santoso BI, Siswanto P, Dasuki D, 
Samsulhadi A, Surya GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Dr. Hasan Sadikin Hospital/Medical 
School, Padjadaran University, Bandung, Indonesia. dragias@bdg.centrin.net.id

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative effectiveness of single vs. two 
transcervical monthly insertions of 252 mg of quinacrine for female 
sterilization.
DESIGN: Controlled clinical study.
SETTING: Family planning clinics of 6 academic centers.
PATIENT(S): Sexually active reproductive-age women requesting sterilization.
INTERVENTION(S): At each of six centers 70 and 30 women were randomly assigned 
to receive either one or two, respectively, monthly transcervical insertions to 
the fundus of 252 mg of quinacrine and 75 mg of diclofenac as pellets and they 
were followed for 1 year.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Complications, side effects, and pregnancy failures.
RESULT(S): There were no serious complications and side effects were transient 
and easily treated. There were 31 (7.4%) pregnancy failures in the single 
insertions group and 2 (1.1%) in the two insertions group, but with marked 
center variation.
CONCLUSION(S): Quinacrine sterilization using two monthly insertions of 252 mg 
of quinacrine appears safe and reasonably effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(02)02957-6
PMID: 12009370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Jun;13(3):260-73. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130305.x.

A long-term follow-up study of non-submerged ITI implants in the treatment of 
totally edentulous jaws. Part I: Ten-year life table analysis of a prospective 
multicenter study with 1286 implants.

Ferrigno N(1), Laureti M, Fanali S, Grippaudo G.

Author information:
(1)Specialization Course in Clinical Implantology and Biomaterials, School of 
Dental Medicine, University of Chieti 'G. D'Annunzio', Rome, Italy. 
ferrigno.n@tiscalinet.it

In this prospective multicenter study, non-submerged ITI implants were followed 
in order to evaluate their long-term prognosis in fully edentulous jaws. A total 
of 1286 implants were inserted in 233 consecutive patients and, after a healing 
period of three to six months, the successfully integrated implants were 
restored with 163 overdentures and 95 fixed full-arch bridges. This prospective 
study not only calculated the 10-year cumulative survival and success rates for 
the 1286 implants by life table analysis, but also evaluated the actual survival 
and success rates for 498 implants after at least five years of functional 
loading. In addition, cumulative success rates were calculated for implant 
subgroups according to implant length and location. Additional analyses were 
performed to evaluate the estimated and actual survival and success rates of the 
implants in relation to various prosthetic rehabilitation techniques. The 
10-year cumulative survival and success rates were 95.9% and 92.7%, 
respectively. The actual 5-year survival and success rates of the first 498 
implants that were inserted were 97.7% and 95.0%, respectively. The analysis of 
implant subgroups showed slightly more favourable cumulative success rates for 
12 mm long implants (93%), in comparison to 10 mm and 8 mm long implants (91.6% 
and 89.6%, respectively). The cumulative success rate for mandibular implants 
(approximately 94%) was also more favourable than that for maxillary implants 
(approximately 91%). Patients who were loaded with both maxillary and mandibular 
prostheses maintained success rates well above 90%; while only implants that 
were inserted to support maxillary overdentures that were retained by Dolder 
bars showed a success rate below 90%.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130305.x
PMID: 12010156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. J Clin Oncol. 2002 May 15;20(10):2520-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2002.10.101.

Effect of prevention strategies on survival and quality-adjusted survival of 
women with BRCA1/2 mutations: an updated decision analysis.

Grann VR(1), Jacobson JS, Thomason D, Hershman D, Heitjan DF, Neugut AI.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, College 
of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 W 168th Street, New York, 
NY 10032, USA.

PURPOSE: This study updates findings regarding the effects of prophylactic 
surgery, chemoprevention, and surveillance on the survival and quality-adjusted 
survival of women who test positive for BRCA1/2 mutations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Markov modeling of outcomes was performed in a simulated 
cohort of 30-year-old women who tested positive for BRCA1/2 mutations. The model 
incorporated breast and ovarian cancer incidence rates from the literature and 
mortality rates from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program. 
Quality adjustment of survival estimates were obtained from a survey of women 
aged 33 to 50 years. Sensitivity analyses were performed of varied assumptions 
regarding timing and effects of preventive measures on cancer incidence and 
adverse effects.
RESULTS: A 30-year-old woman could prolong her survival beyond that associated 
with surveillance alone by use of preventive measures: 1.8 years with tamoxifen, 
2.6 years with prophylactic oophorectomy, 4.6 years with both tamoxifen and 
prophylactic oophorectomy, 3.5 years with prophylactic mastectomy, and 4.9 years 
with both surgeries. She could prolong her quality-adjusted survival by 2.8 
years with tamoxifen, 4.4 years with prophylactic oophorectomy, 6.3 years with 
tamoxifen and oophorectomy, and 2.6 years with mastectomy, or with both 
surgeries. The benefits of all of these strategies would decrease if they were 
initiated at later ages.
CONCLUSION: Women who test positive for BRCA1/2 mutations may derive greater 
survival and quality adjusted survival benefits than previously reported from 
chemoprevention, prophylactic surgery, or a combination. Observational studies 
and clinical trials are needed to verify the results of this analysis of the 
long-term benefits of preventive strategies among BRCA1/2-positive women.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2002.10.101
PMID: 12011131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Jun;56(6):444-9. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.6.444.

Changing life expectancy in Romania after the transition.

Dolea C(1), Nolte E, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Management, Carol Davila University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

BACKGROUND: While Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic have seen impressive 
gains in life expectancy in the 1990s, Romania has not. In contrast with the 
other countries, there has been very little research on the causes of the 
pattern of mortality seen in Romania.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the trends in life expectancy at birth in Romania after 
the political transition in 1989 and to evaluate the contribution of deaths from 
different causes and different ages to these changes.
METHODS: Decomposition of life expectancy by age and cause of death using 
routine data on mortality for the years 1990, 1996, and 1998; comparison of 
death rates by age, sex, and cause of death.
RESULTS: Romania has experienced an overall decline of 1.71 years of life 
expectancy at birth from 1990 to 1996 in men and 0.54 years in women. The major 
contribution to this decline was an increase in mortality from cardiovascular 
diseases and diseases of the digestive system, in particular cirrhosis, among 
the middle aged and elderly. The recovery observed in 1998, of 1.12 years in men 
and 0.89 years in women, was mainly caused by a reduction in deaths from 
cardiovascular disease in the middle aged and elderly. Infant and early 
childhood mortality fell throughout the period but there was an increase of 
approximately 40% in mortality at age 5-9 that was almost entirely attributable 
to AIDS.
CONCLUSION: This is the first Romanian study that describes the evolution of 
life expectancy after transition. Romania may at last be beginning to follow the 
path of improving adult mortality seen in the early 1990s in some of its 
neighbours. It has, however, been unique in eastern Europe in experiencing 
increasing childhood mortality. This is attributable to an epidemic of 
paediatric AIDS, consequent on the tragically inappropriate policies adopted in 
the 1980s.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.6.444
PMCID: PMC1732171
PMID: 12011202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2002 May 15;94(10):708-10. doi: 10.1093/jnci/94.10.708.

New uniform population standard better reflects U.S. cancer burden.

Fintor L.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/94.10.708
PMID: 12011213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2002 Jun;(399):59-71. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-200206000-00009.

Reduction and fixation of displaced intracapsular fractures of the proximal 
femur.

Bosch U(1), Schreiber T, Krettek C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma Surgery, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 
1, D-30625 Hannover, Germany.

Intracapsular fractures of the femoral neck are one of the most common fractures 
in the elderly. The incidence of these fractures will increase significantly in 
the next decades as a result of increasing life expectancy. Although treatment 
of these fractures by closed or open reduction and internal fixation is standard 
in young patients, arthroplasty is the standard treatment in geriatric patients 
in most countries. Comorbidities of the patients and current socioeconomic 
changes in healthcare led to reconsideration of closed reduction and internal 
fixation of femoral neck fractures as an alternative treatment modality. With 
correct decision-making, proper reduction, and proper consideration of the 
biomechanical principle of three-point fixation, minimally invasive screw 
fixation of femoral neck fractures is a safe and inexpensive procedure even in 
elderly patients. The purpose of the current review was to give an overview of 
the history, current techniques and developments, results, limitations, and 
complications of closed reduction and internal fixation of intracapsular femoral 
neck fractures.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-200206000-00009
PMID: 12011695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Semin Urol Oncol. 2002 May;20(2):123-30. doi: 10.1053/suro.2002.32493.

Nomograms for clinically localized prostate cancer. Part I: radical 
prostatectomy.

Han M(1), Partin AW.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, the Department of Urology, The 
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Many nomograms are currently available for patients' and physicians' use for 
prediction of pathologic stage based on preoperative parameters, such as 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, clinical stage (tumor, node, metastasis), 
and Gleason score from prostate biopsy specimen. Based on the probability of 
final pathologic stage as well as patient comorbidity and life expectancy, 
patients and physicians can decide whether definitive local therapy, systemic 
therapy, or palliative therapy would be most appropriate. Nomograms have also 
been developed based on preoperative parameters for prediction of biochemical 
recurrence-free survival outcome following surgery. These nomograms can help 
patients understand the long-term cancer cure rates after radical prostatectomy.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/suro.2002.32493
PMID: 12012298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Nurs N Z. 2000 Oct;6(9):7.

Redistributing resources key to improved health.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12012543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nephrologie. 2002;23(2):67-9.

[Dietary sodium: beyond blood pressure, what relationship with morbidity and 
life expectancy?].

[Article in French]

Druëke TB.

PMID: 12012749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 2002 Mar;122(3):131-5.

[Cardiac transplantation : current contraindications and alternative therapies].

[Article in French]

Seydoux C(1).

Author information:
(1)Division de cardiologie, CHUV, Lausanne.

PMID: 12014250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2002;8(4):213-20. doi: 
10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12014810.

Autologous versus allogeneic unrelated donor transplantation for acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia: comparative toxicity and outcomes.

Weisdorf D(1), Bishop M, Dharan B, Bolwell B, Cahn JY, Cairo M, Giralt S, Klein 
J, Lazarus H, Litzow M, Marks D, McCarthy P, Miller C, Milone G, Russell J, 
Schultz KR, Sierra J, Wiernik P, Keating A, Loberiza F, Kollman C, Horowitz M.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, the National Marrow Donor Program and the Autologous 
Blood and Marrow Transplant Registry, Minneapolis 55455, USA. 
weisd001@tc.umn.edu

For patients with high-risk or relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
lacking a related histocompatible donor, autologous (Auto) and unrelated donor 
(URD) transplantation are available options. We compared outcomes and toxicities 
in 712 patients with ALL (517 URD, 195 Auto) in first complete remission (CR1) 
or second complete remission (CR2) who underwent transplantation. All patients 
were <50 years old, although URD patientswere younger (median age, 14 versus 18 
years, P < .002). The proportion of patients in CR1 versus CR2 was similar (36% 
versus 38%, P = .57), but more URD recipients than Auto recipients had high-risk 
karyotypes (25% versus 13%, P = .003) and white blood cell (WBC) counts > or =50 
x 10(9)/L (33% versus 14%, P < .001). Engraftment was similar in URD and Auto 
recipients. Ex vivo purging delayed but did not prevent engraftment after Auto 
transplantation. Transplantation-related mortality was higher after URD 
transplantation (42%+/-8%) than after Auto transplantation (20%+/-12%) in CR1 (P 
= .004) and also in CR2. Conversely, relapse was more frequent after Auto 
transplantation in CR1 (Auto, 49%+/-12% versus URD, 14%+/-5%) and CR2 (64%+/-8% 
versus 25%+/-5%) (P < .0001). These findings showed net similar outcomes for 
these 2 transplantation choices. Transplantation in CR1 yielded similar 3-year 
survival rates for URD (51%+/-7%) and Auto (44%+/-12%), as did transplantation 
in CR2 (40%+/-6% versus 32%+/-9%, respectively). Multivariate regression 
analysis identified significantly better disease-free survival after the first 6 
months in matched URD versus Auto in younger patients, in those in CR2 with CR1 
>1year, WBC <50 x 10(9)/L, performance status > or =90%, and in those who have 
undergone transplantation since 1995. These comparative data suggest that both 
matched URD and Auto transplantation can yield extended survival. Although URD 
transplantation offers substantially better protection against leukemic relapse, 
improvements in allotransplantation safety and refinements in patient selection 
are required to better aid treatment decision making for the best overall 
survival.

DOI: 10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12014810
PMID: 12014810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2002;8(4):221-8. doi: 
10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12014811.

Second hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in pediatric patients: overall 
survival and long-term follow-up.

Shah AJ(1), Kapoor N, Weinberg KI, Crooks GM, Kohn DB, Lenarsky C, Kaufman F, 
Epport K, Wilson K, Parkman R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research Immunology/Bone Marrow Transplantation, Childrens 
Hospital, Los Angeles, CA 90027, USA. ashah@chla.usc.edu

Despite potent intensive conditioning regimens, hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) may fail because of either relapse of the malignancy or 
the rejection of the graft. We report on 27 pediatric patients who received a 
second HSCT from an allogeneic donor for relapsed malignancy or graft failure. 
One-year, 5-year, and 10-year probabilities of survival for all patients were 
53%, 36%, and 24%, respectively. Twenty patients received second HSCTs for 
relapsed malignancy, of whom 6 were alive and disease free at the time of this 
report. Seven patients received a second HSCT for graft failure, of whom 3 were 
alive and well as of this report. Twenty-five patients were tested for immune 
reconstitution following their second HSCT. Sixteen patients developed 
antigen-specific T-lymphocyte responses; the median time to development of 
antigen-specific responses was 13 months. There was no significant 
neurocognitive decline in patients tested 1 to 3 years following their second 
HSCT. Endocrine evaluations revealed deficiencies in growth hormone (7 
patients), gonadal function (3 patients), and thyroid function (2 patients). 
Three patients developed significant abnormalities of tooth development, 
including absence of secondary teeth. These results show that a second HSCT 
offers curative therapy for selected pediatric patients whose first HSCT failed. 
Although toxicity is considerable following a second transplantation, the major 
causes of mortality continue to be relapse and infection.

DOI: 10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12014811
PMID: 12014811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Int J STD AIDS. 2002 Jun;13(6):384-92. doi: 10.1258/095646202760029804.

Condom distribution: a cost-utility analysis.

Bedimo AL(1), Pinkerton SD, Cohen DA, Gray B, Farley TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Preventive Medicine, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, USA. abedim@lsuhsc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To explore the cost-effectiveness of a condom distribution programme.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-utility analysis of a social marketing campaign in 
which over 33 million condoms were made freely available throughout Louisiana. 
Surveys among 275,000 African Americans showed that condom use increased by 30%. 
Based on the estimated cost of the intervention and costs of HIV/AIDS-associated 
medical treatment, we estimated the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved, 
and number of HIV infections averted by the programme.
RESULTS: The programme was estimated to prevent 170 HIV infections and save 1909 
QALYs. Over $33 million in medical care costs were estimated to be averted, 
resulting in cost savings. Sensitivity analyses showed that these results were 
quite stable over a range of estimates for the main parameters. Condom increases 
as small as 2.7% were still cost-saving.
CONCLUSION: Condom distribution is a community-level HIV prevention intervention 
that has the potential to reach large segments of the general population, 
thereby averting significant numbers of HIV infections and associated medical 
costs. The intervention is easy to scale up to large populations or down to 
small populations. The financial and health benefits of condom social marketing 
support making it a routine component of HIV prevention services nationally.

DOI: 10.1258/095646202760029804
PMID: 12015012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Jun 1;34(11):1491-9. doi: 10.1086/340341.

Will genetic testing alter the management of disease caused by infectious 
agents? A cost-effectiveness analysis of gene-testing strategies for prevention 
of rheumatic Fever.

King CH(1), Fischler DF, Gerkin RD.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
chk@po.cwru.edu

Cost-effectiveness analysis was done to evaluate the potential health and 
economic effects of a genetic screening program to identify individuals at risk 
for rheumatic fever (RF). The current RF prevention strategy was compared with a 
new, primary prevention strategy involving early genetic testing and intensive 
prophylaxis to prevent a first attack among individuals at high risk for RF. 
When analysis of a hypothetical 2000 birth cohort was done from a societal 
perspective, the prevention strategy involving genetic screening and prophylaxis 
for high-risk persons reduced the number of RF cases and increased life span at 
an estimated discounted cost of $7900 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. 
Genetic screening became the preferred (least expensive) strategy if the test 
specificity was >/=98%, the annual cost of prophylaxis was <$550, or the annual 
cost of caring for an individual with severe rheumatic heart disease increased 
to >$32,000. When used with available antibiotic prophylaxis, genetic testing 
has the potential to provide a cost-effective strategy for the primary 
prevention of RF and its sequelae.

DOI: 10.1086/340341
PMID: 12015696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Biorheology. 2001;38(5-6):379-87.

Rheology of hyaluronan solutions under extensional flow.

Mo Y(1), Nishinari K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Human Health Sciences, Graduate School of Human Life 
Science, Osaka City University, Sumiyoshi, Osaka 558-8585, Japan.

The extensional viscosity and the steady shear viscosity of sodium type 
hyaluronan (NaHA) in water with sodium chloride and/or sucrose and in DMSO 
solvent were measured. The extensional viscosities for HA in aqueous solution 
(0.05, 0.1, 0.3 w/v%) were constant at lower extensional rates, and then became 
strain thinning above a critical extensional rate. However, on adding sodium 
chloride, the extensional viscosity decreased and became strain thickening at 
higher extensional rates. Sodium ions shield the electrostatic repulsion between 
carboxyl residues of HA molecules and constrict the coil dimensions. The strain 
thickening of HA solution in the presence of sodium chloride at higher extension 
rates is due to the coil stretching. The addition of sucrose increased the 
extensional viscosity and shifted the critical extensional rate to lower strain 
rates. With increasing strain (shear) rates, extensional (shear) viscosities for 
HA aqueous solutions remained constant up to a critical extension (shear) rate; 
but they showed no plateau and decreased linearly in DMSO. It is clear that 
molecular interaction of HA in DMSO is stronger than that in aqueous solution. 
This should be attributed to the different conformations of HA in DMSO and in 
aqueous solutions.

PMID: 12016321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Gastroenterology. 2002 May;122(6):1620-30. doi: 10.1053/gast.2002.33419.

Endoscopic screening for varices in cirrhosis: findings, implications, and 
outcomes.

Jensen DM(1).

Author information:
(1)CURE Digestive Diseases Research Center, University of California Los Angeles 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA. djensen@mednet.ucla.edu

At least two thirds of cirrhotic patients develop esophageal varices during 
their lifetime. Severe upper gastrointestinal (UGI) bleeding as a complication 
of portal hypertension develops in about 30%-40% of cirrhotics. Despite 
significant improvements in the early diagnosis and treatment of esophagogastric 
variceal hemorrhage, the mortality rate of first variceal hemorrhage remains 
high (20%-35%). Primary prophylaxis, the focus of this article, is treatment of 
patients who never had previous variceal bleeding to prevent the first variceal 
hemorrhage. The potential of preventing first variceal hemorrhage offers the 
promise of reducing mortality, morbidity, and associated health care costs. This 
article (1) reviews endoscopic grading of size and stigmata for esophageal and 
gastric varices, (2) describes data on prevalence and incidence of esophageal 
and gastric varices from prospective studies, (3) discusses independent risk 
factors from multivariate analyses of prospective studies for development of 
first esophageal or gastric variceal hemorrhage and possible stratification of 
patients based on these risk factors, (4) comments on the potential cost 
effectiveness of screening all newly diagnosed cirrhotic patients and treating 
high-risk patients with medical or endoscopic therapies, and (5) recommends 
further studies of endoscopic screening, stratification, and outcomes in 
prospective studies of endoscopic therapy. The author's recommendations are to 
perform endoscopic screening for the following subgroups of cirrhotics: all 
newly diagnosed cirrhotic patients and all other cirrhotics who are medically 
stable, willing to be treated prophylactically, and would benefit from medical 
or endoscopic therapies. Exclude patients who are unlikely to benefit from 
prophylactic therapies designed to prevent the first variceal hemorrhage, those 
with short life expectancy, and those with previous UGI hemorrhage (they should 
have already undergone endoscopy). For low or very low risk cirrhotic 
patients-those found to have no varices or small varices without stigmata-repeat 
endoscopy is recommended because screening for progression may be warranted in 2 
or more years.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.2002.33419
PMID: 12016427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. World J Surg. 2002 Aug;26(8):976-84. doi: 10.1007/s00268-002-6628-6. Epub
2002  May 21.

Treatment of small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors: is an extended multimodal 
approach justified?

Schindl M(1), Kaczirek K, Passler C, Kaserer K, Prager G, Scheuba C, Raderer M, 
Niederle B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of General Surgery, Section of Endocrine 
Surgery, University of Vienna, Medical School, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, Austria.

Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the small bowel are known for their low 
malignant behavior. Although most cases are diagnosed in an advanced stage, 
natural life expectancy is significantly higher than with intestinal carcinomas. 
The question arises if there are any benefits to combining extended (radical or 
debulking) surgery, interventional treatment, and medical treatment with respect 
to life expectancy, and quality of life. A series of 58 patients (34 men, 24 
women; mean age 61 +/- 12 years, range 37-87 years) with NETs of the small bowel 
were retrospectively reviewed and prospectively followed over 63 +/- 53 months. 
Clinical presentation, tumor characteristics, and postoperative medical 
treatment were documented. Quality of life was additionally analyzed using a 
questionnaire. Survival probability and quality of life were compared for tumor 
stages and type of treatment performed. In 47 of 58 (81%) patients the NET was 
diagnosed based on the presence of intestinal stenosis or endocrine symptoms. Of 
16 patients without liver metastases, 15 (94%) were cured by radical surgery. 
Multiple liver metastases were evident in 40 of 58 (69%) patients and decreased 
the 5- and 10-year cumulative survival to 64% +/- 10% and 22% +/- 10% (M0 vs. 
M1: p <0.05). The 5- and 10-year survival rates after multimodal treatment 
(surgery, bio/immunotherapy, transarterial embolization of liver metastases) 
were 64% +/- 11% and 28% +/- 12% compared to 61% +/- 15% and 0% in patients 
without (p = NS). In patients with small intestinal NETs, a consistent 
multimodal treatment helps to improve the overall survival and, in most 
patients, the quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-002-6628-6
PMID: 12016477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Pediatr Dev Pathol. 2002 Jul-Aug;5(4):375-85. doi:
10.1007/s10024-001-0099-x.  Epub 2002 May 21.

Medial smooth muscle thickness in small pulmonary arteries in sudden infant 
death syndrome revisited.

Krous HF(1), Floyd CW, Nadeau JM, Silva PD, Blackbourne BD, Langston C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Children's Hospital-San Diego, 3020 Children's Way, 
MC5007, San Diego, CA 92123, USA. hkrous@chsd.org

Increased relative medial thickness (RMT) of smooth muscle in small pulmonary 
arteries, peripheral extension of smooth muscle into the alveolar wall arteries, 
and right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), in response to purported prolonged 
hypoxia, have been reported in sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Prone sleep 
position, an important risk factor for SIDS, predisposes infants to hypoxia from 
airway obstruction or rebreathing. Since publication of the earlier pulmonary 
artery studies, the SIDS definition has been expanded, and sudden infant death 
investigational protocols have been implemented. Our aims in this study were to 
(1) compare RMT in preacinar arteries (PA), intra-acinar arteries accompanying 
small airways (SIA), and alveolar wall arteries (AW) in SIDS infants and 
controls; (2) correlate RMT with postmortem variables; (3) determine if 
peripheral extension occurred more often in SIDS infants than in controls; and 
(4) determine if RVH occurred in SIDS. Movat-stained sections from standardized 
tissue blocks taken prospectively from the apex of the right upper lobe from 88 
SIDS cases and 17 controls were evaluated using a computer-assisted digitizing 
system with images obtained from a microscope with an attached video camera. 
When adjusted for age, the RMT values for the SIA arteries were significantly 
greater in controls, while the PA and AW arteries were not statistically 
different between the SIDS cases and controls. Peripheral medial smooth muscle 
extension did not differ between the groups, and RVH was not seen in SIDS cases. 
Given the recent identification of brain stem abnormalities interfering with 
protective cardiorespiratory responses against acute life-threatening hypoxia 
perhaps precipitated by prone sleeping, our data suggest that SIDS is an acute 
event not preceded by recurrent or prolonged apnea and hypoxia.

DOI: 10.1007/s10024-001-0099-x
PMID: 12016526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. ABNF J. 2002 Mar-Apr;13(2):37-40.

Elderly citizen's perception of their health and care provided in a rural South 
African community.

Brathwaite D(1), Mogotlane S, Rodriquez H, Dorsey S, Magongo R, Matlakala M.

Author information:
(1)Prairie View A&M University, College of Nursing, Houston, Texas, USA.

A descriptive survey of 201 senior citizens, 55 years or older was conducted 
June 2001, using face-to-face interviews to establish a database. Structured 
tools were used to measure self appraisal of family stress, perceived social 
support, caregiver satisfaction and psychological health of family members and 
of themselves. Even though the senior citizens had survived past the estimated 
life expectancy, the quality of life has not improved significantly in the 
post-apartheid period.

PMID: 12017111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2002;8(4):198-205. doi: 
10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12017145.

The impact of induction duration and the number of high-dose cycles on the 
long-term survival of women with metastatic breast cancer treated with high-dose 
chemotherapy with stem cell rescue: an analysis of sequential phase I/II trials 
from the Dana-Farber/Beth Israel STAMP program.

Elias AD(1), Ibrahim J, Richardson P, Avigan D, Joyce R, Reich E, McCauley M, 
Wheeler C, Frei E 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA. anthony.elias@uchsc.edu

Although high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) with stem cell rescue for the treatment of 
women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) is currently a controversial strategy, 
we report the long-term outcomes of women undergoing high-dose therapy for MBC 
over the past 12 years while participating in a sequence of research studies 
transitioning between a single to a double intensification approach. Univariate 
and multivariate analyses provide a framework to understand the prognostic 
factors important for event-free and overall survival. Between May 1988 and 
April 1998, we enrolled 188 women with MBC into 3 trials of previously reported 
sequential transplantation strategies. Trial I (long induction/single 
transplantation) accepted 62 women in partial or complete response to an 
unspecified induction therapy and treated them with high-dose CTCb 
(cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, and carboplatin) supported by marrow or peripheral 
blood progenitor cells (PBPC). Trial II (long induction/double transplantation) 
accepted 68 women in partial or complete response to an unspecified induction 
therapy, and mobilized stem cells with 2 cycles of AF (doxorubicin and 
5-fluorouracil) with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). These women 
then received 1 cycle of high-dose single-agent melphalan followed 3 to 5 weeks 
later by CTCb, each with marrow or PBPC support. Trial III (short 
induction/double transplantation) enrolled 58 women prior to chemotherapy 
treatment for metastatic disease. Induction/mobilization consisted of 2 cycles 
given 14 days apart of doxorubicin and G-CSF. In contrast to trials I and II, 
patients with stable disease or better response to induction were eligible to 
proceed ahead with 2 cycles of HDC, 1 being CTCb and the other being dose 
escalated paclitaxel together with high-dose melphalan (TxM). These 2 HDC 
regimens were administered 5 weeks apart. TxM was given first in 32 patients and 
CTCb was given first in 26 patients. The median follow-up periods for trials I, 
II, and III were 98, 62, and 39 months from the initiation of induction 
chemotherapy and 92, 55, and 36 months from last high-dose therapy, 
respectively. The patient characteristics upon entry into these trials were 
similar. Important differences were that only those patients achieving a partial 
response or better to induction therapy were enrolled and analyzed for trials I 
and II, but all patients were analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis for trial 
III, including those who did not receive intensification. The median event-free 
survival (EFS) times from induction chemotherapy were 13, 19, and 27 months for 
trials I, II, and III, respectively (III versus I + II, P = .0004; III versus I, 
P = .0005; III versus II, P = .005; II versus I, P = .25). The median overall 
survival (OS) times from induction chemotherapy were 30, 29, and 57 months for 
trials I, II, and III, respectively (III versus I + II, P = .002; III versus I, 
P = .003; III versus II, P = .009; II versus I, P = .47). By multivariate Cox 
regression, participation in the short induction/double transplantation trial 
III and having no prior adjuvant chemotherapy remained favorable prognostic 
factors for both EFS and OS. The presence of visceral disease shortened EFS, and 
hormone sensitivity was of borderline significance. No substantive differences 
in the characteristics of the patient populations between the 3 trials appeared 
to interact with outcomes. In conclusion, we found that single transplantation 
in responding patients after long induction achieves a small cohort of long-term 
survivors, similar to the results reported by other transplantation centers. 
Adding a cycle of single-agent high-dose melphalan in this context delayed 
median time to relapse but did not affect long-term EFS or OS. The double 
transplantation approach using CTCb and TxM early in the course of treatment was 
associated with the best EFS and overall survival and was safe, feasible, and 
tolerable. Treatment duration was only 14 weeks, and this treatment option 
eliminated lengthy induction chemotherapy. Although selection biases may have in 
part contributed to this effect, a randomized comparison of standard therapy 
versus short induction/double transplantation is warranted.

DOI: 10.1053/bbmt.2002.v8.pm12017145
PMID: 12017145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 May-Jun;8(3):12-16, 125-34.

Longevity.

Dossey L.

Comment in
    Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 Jul-Aug;8(4):18-9.
    Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 Jul-Aug;8(4):19.

PMID: 12017488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Pac Health Dialog. 2001 Mar;8(1):163-5.

Māori women and menopause.

Lawton B(1), Reid P, Cormack D, Dowell T, Stone P.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Wellington School of Medicine, PO Box 7343, 
Wellington South, New Zealand. lawton.bev@xtra.co.nz

Māori are the indigenous people of New Zealand who in total make up 14.5% of the 
population. Although this group has a significantly lower life expectancy than 
non-Māori, coupled with increased rates of mortality and morbidity, very little 
is known about the menopausal health needs of older Māori women. As the first 
step in addressing the health needs of this group, older Māori women's 
definitions, attitudes, symptoms, expectations and health needs at menopause 
need to be identified and described. The study Ngā Ruahine or "Māori in 
Menopause" is the foundation study of the Aotearoa Women's Health Initiative 
(AWHI). AWHI is a women's health programme being developed by the Wellington 
School of Medicine, which involves a suite of studies. The objective is to 
describe the journey of older Māori women through menopause and beyond and to 
compare and contrast the experience of Māori women from both traditional and 
contemporary upbringings, with reference to the Pākehā (European) population. It 
is hoped that this work could lead to further studies such as, for example, a 
longitudinal observational study looking at older New Zealand women. The 
potential significance of this approach is discussed.

PMID: 12017818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Qual Life Res. 2002 Mar;11(2):91-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1015096313594.

Evaluating high dose therapy in Multiple Myeloma: use of quality-adjusted 
survival analysis.

Porcher R(1), Lévy V, Fermand JP, Katsahian S, Chevret S, Ravaud P.

Author information:
(1)Département de Biostatistique et Informatique Médicale, Hôpital Saint Louis, 
U444-INSERM, Université Paris, France. porcher@dbim.jussieu.fr

PURPOSE: To incorporate quality-of-life considerations in assessing high dose 
therapy (HDT) for patients with Multiple Myeloma (MM).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A quality-adjusted survival analysis. using the 
quality-adjusted time without symptoms or toxicity (Q-TWiST) method, was applied 
to two randomized clinical trials conducted in patients with MM which compared 
randomized assignment to HDT vs. conventional chemotherapy (CCT) alone (MAG91) 
or followed by HDT (MAG90). Treatment benefit in terms of mean Q-TWiST was 
assessed through threshold utility analyses, i.e., sensitivity analyses of the 
choice of the utility coefficients over all possible values of utility weights.
RESULTS: In both trials, results slightly favored the first-line HDT group over 
the first-line CCT group, with an average gain in TWiST of about 5.5 months over 
the 58 month-median follow-up period (27.8 vs. 22.3 months, respectively) in the 
MAG90 trial and 5.8 months over the 56 month-median follow-up period (19.1 vs. 
13.3 months, respectively) in the MAG91 trial. The utility threshold analyses 
revealed that the first-line HDT group had a statistically increased mean 
quality-of-life adjusted time compared to the other group for a broad range of 
utility coefficient values.
CONCLUSION: The development of such understandable and intuitive measures of 
expressing the relative benefit of complex treatment strategies is expected to 
be used in clinical decision making in the near future.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015096313594
PMID: 12018742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 May;123(5):869-80. doi:
10.1067/mtc.2002.121679.

Internal thoracic artery grafting in the elderly patient undergoing coronary 
artery bypass grafting: room for process improvement?

Ferguson TB Jr(1), Coombs LP, Peterson ED.

Author information:
(1)Surgery and Physiology, LSU Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, LA 
70112-2822, USA. tfergu@lsuhsc.edu

OBJECTIVE: The acute and long-term benefits of internal thoracic artery grafting 
are clear in younger patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The 
elderly, however, face higher surgical risks and have shorter life expectancy, 
and thus the use of internal thoracic artery grafting in this age group has been 
debated. This study examined the use, complication risks, and operative (30-day) 
mortality associated with internal thoracic artery grafting in patients 75 years 
of age and older.
METHODS: Between 1996 and 1999, 522,656 patients in the Society of Thoracic 
Surgeons National Cardiac Database underwent primary, nonemergency-salvage 
coronary artery bypass grafting; of these, 99,942 were 75 years of age or older. 
The influence of internal thoracic artery use on operative mortality and 5 major 
complications in this elderly group was examined by means of (1) risk adjustment 
(adjusting for 28 baseline risk factors and site) and (2) a treatment propensity 
score analysis that compares patients with similar baseline likelihood for 
receiving an internal thoracic artery graft.
RESULTS: In the National Cardiac Database 77.4% of patients aged 75 to 84 years 
received an internal thoracic artery graft compared with 93.5% for those aged 55 
years or less. In this elderly group use of the internal thoracic artery was 
strongly associated with decreased operative mortality (unadjusted mortality, 
6.20% vs. 4.05%; P <.0001) that persisted after controlling for baseline risk 
and provider effects (adjusted odds ratio, 0.85; 95% confidence intervals, 
0.79-0.91). This mortality benefit was seen among those with low-to-high 
baseline propensity for receiving an internal thoracic artery graft.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the internal thoracic artery in elderly patients undergoing 
coronary artery bypass grafting provides an acute survival benefit. This benefit 
is similar to that seen in younger patients and persists after adjusting for 
both patient and provider selection factors. The internal thoracic artery 
appears to be underused in elderly patients undergoing bypass grafting and is a 
potential area for quality improvement.

DOI: 10.1067/mtc.2002.121679
PMID: 12019371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Arch Intern Med. 2002 May 27;162(10):1196-7. doi:
10.1001/archinte.162.10.1196.

The C282Y mutation does not shorten life span.

Beutler E, Felitti VJ.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2001 Nov 12;161(20):2441-4.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.10.1196
PMID: 12020197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. JAMA. 2002 May 15;287(19):2542-51. doi: 10.1001/jama.287.19.2542.

Cost-effectiveness of intensive glycemic control, intensified hypertension 
control, and serum cholesterol level reduction for type 2 diabetes.

CDC Diabetes Cost-effectiveness Group.

CONTEXT: Several treatment interventions can reduce complications of type 2 
diabetes, but their relative cost-effectiveness is not known.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of intensive glycemic 
control (relative to conventional control), intensified hypertension control, 
and reduction in serum cholesterol level for patients with type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Cost-effectiveness analysis of a hypothetical 
cohort of individuals living in the United States, aged 25 years or older, who 
were newly diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes. The results of the United 
Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) and other studies were used to create 
a model of disease progression and treatment patterns. Costs were based on those 
used in community practices in the United States.
INTERVENTIONS: Insulin or sulfonylurea therapy for intensive glycemic control; 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or beta-blocker for intensified 
hypertension control; and pravastatin for reduction of serum cholesterol level.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Costs 
(in 1997 US dollars) and QALYs were discounted at a 3% annual rate.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for intensive glycemic control 
is $41 384 per QALY; this ratio increased with age at diagnosis from $9614 per 
QALY for patients aged 25 to 34 years to $2.1 million for patients aged 85 to 94 
years. For intensified hypertension control the cost-effectiveness ratio is 
-$1959 per QALY. The cost-effectiveness ratio for reduction in serum cholesterol 
level is $51 889 per QALY; this ratio varied by age at diagnosis and is lowest 
for patients diagnosed between the ages of 45 and 84 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Intensified hypertension control reduces costs and improves health 
outcomes relative to moderate hypertension control. Intensive glycemic control 
and reduction in serum cholesterol level increase costs and improve health 
outcomes. The cost-effectiveness ratios for these 2 interventions are comparable 
with those of several other frequently adopted health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.287.19.2542
PMID: 12020335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Lancet. 2002 May 11;359(9318):1635-43. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08595-1.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV/AIDS interventions in Africa: a systematic review of 
the evidence.

Creese A(1), Floyd K, Alban A, Guinness L.

Author information:
(1)Essential Drugs and Medicines Policy Department, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland. 
creesea@who.ch

Erratum in
    Lancet 2002 Sep 14;360(9336):880.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Jul 6;360(9326):86; author reply 87-8.
    Lancet. 2002 Jul 6;360(9326):86-7; author reply 87-8.

BACKGROUND: Evidence for cost-effectiveness of interventions for HIV/AIDS in 
Africa is fragmentary. Cost-effectiveness is, however, highly relevant. African 
governments face difficult choices in striking the right balance between 
prevention, treatment, and care, all of which are necessary to deal 
comprehensively with the epidemic. Reductions in drug prices have raised the 
priority of treatment, though treatment access is restricted. We assessed the 
existing cost-effectiveness data and its implications for value-for-money 
strategies to combat HIV/AIDS in Africa.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic review using databases and consultations with 
experts. We identified over 60 reports that measured both the cost and 
effectiveness of HIV/AIDS interventions in Africa. 24 studies met our inclusion 
criteria and were used to calculate standardised estimates of the cost (US$ for 
year 2000) per HIV infection prevented and per disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY) gained for 31 interventions.
FINDINGS: Cost-effectiveness varied greatly between interventions. A case of 
HIV/AIDS can be prevented for $11, and a DALY gained for $1, by selective blood 
safety measures, and by targeted condom distribution with treatment of sexually 
transmitted diseases. Single-dose nevirapine and short-course zidovudine for 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission, voluntary counselling and testing, 
and tuberculosis treatment, cost under $75 per DALY gained. Other interventions, 
such as formula feeding for infants, home care programmes, and antiretroviral 
therapy for adults, cost several thousand dollars per infection prevented, or 
several hundreds of dollars per DALY gained.
INTERPRETATION: A strong economic case exists for prioritisation of preventive 
interventions and tuberculosis treatment. Where potentially exclusive 
alternatives exist, cost-effectiveness analysis points to an intervention that 
offers the best value for money. Cost-effectiveness analysis is an essential 
component of informed debate about priority setting for HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08595-1
PMID: 12020523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 May;123(9):1203-10. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(02)00002-7.

Rejuvenescence and extension of an urochordate life span following a single, 
acute administration of an anti-oxidant, butylated hydroxytoluene.

Voskoboynik A(1), Reznick AZ, Rinkevich B.

Author information:
(1)Minerva Center for Marine Invertebrate Immunology and Developmental Biology, 
National Institute of Oceanography, Israel Oceanographic and Limnological 
Research, Tel-Shikmona, P.O. Box 8030, Haifa 31080, Israel.

Two commonly accepted metabolic theories of aging interpret senescence either in 
terms of the rate of living, where a fixed total metabolic potential is consumed 
over an expected lifetime (after which the organism wears out and dies) or, in 
terms of accumulative oxidative damage resulting in progressive and irreversible 
changes in metabolic pathways. Protocols based on restricted diets, chronically 
administered anti-oxidants and the use of established lines of organisms 
resistant to free radical damage support the metabolic theories of aging by 
revealing, in many cases, significant extensions of life spans or dramatic 
anti-aging effects. To test the universality of these metabolic hypotheses of 
aging, we acutely treated ramets (clonal replicates) from old, long-lived 
colonies of the urochordate Botryllus schlosseri with lethal doses of the 
anti-oxidant butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). This group of organisms has a 
weekly cyclical and highly synchronized developmental process (blastogenesis), 
during which all existing zooids are removed by massive apoptosis and 
phagocytosis processes. In animals treated with BHT, blastogenesis was 
completely arrested and colonies deteriorated to a morphologically chaotic 
state. Rescued ramets resorbed BHT treated zooids, regenerated entirely new sets 
of zooids and then revealed: (1) rejuvenescence and enhanced growth rates and in 
many cases, (2) up to 4.6 times extension of post-treatment life expectancy. 
Both metabolic theories for senescence were therefore falsified in B. 
schlosseri. The possible existence of an aging clock that can be set by the 
environment is suggested.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(02)00002-7
PMID: 12020943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Vasc Surg. 2002 May;35(5):950-7. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.121984.

Why insurers should reimburse for compression stockings in patients with chronic 
venous stasis.

Korn P(1), Patel ST, Heller JA, Deitch JS, Krishnasastry KV, Bush HL, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Cornell Campus, 
525 East 68th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. kckent@mail.med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: Chronic venous stasis ulcers produce substantial morbidity rates and 
result in a significant expense to society. Fortunately, compression stockings 
(CS) have been found to reduce the rate of recurrence in patients with previous 
ulceration. Surprisingly, Medicare and other insurers do not reimburse the 
expense associated with CS or with patient education (Ed), which is essential to 
ensure compliance.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model was used for analysis of the 
cost-effectiveness of a strategy of reimbursement for CS and Ed (prophylaxis) 
versus one that does not supply these resources in a 55-year-old patient with 
prior venous stasis ulceration. The mean time to ulcer recurrence (53 months 
with CS+Ed; 18.7 months without prophylaxis), the mean time for ulcer healing 
(4.6 months), the probabilities of hospitalization (12%) and amputation (0.4%) 
after the development of an ulcer, and quality-adjustment factors (0.80 during 
ulcer treatment) were derived from the literature. The cost of CS ($300/year) 
and Ed ($93 for initial evaluation; $58/year; $40/recurrence) and the medical 
cost of ulcer treatment (average cost, $1621/recurrence) were calculated from 
our hospital cost accounting system.
RESULTS: A strategy of CS and Ed was cost saving, with 0.37 quality-adjusted 
life years and $5904 saved, compared with a strategy that does not provide these 
resources. The inclusion of loss of revenue related to absence from work in the 
analysis increased cost savings to $17,080 during the patient's lifetime. With 
sensitivity analysis, CS and Ed remained cost-effective (lifetime cost per 
quality-adjusted life year saved, <$60,000) if amputations and the cost of ulcer 
