treatment were eliminated or if the cost of prophylaxis was increased to 600% of 
the base-case. The mean time to recurrence in patients with CS and Ed needed to 
be reduced from 53 months to 21.1 months before this strategy was no longer 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Prophylactic CS and Ed in patients with prior venous stasis 
ulceration are cost saving, even with the most conservative of assumptions. 
Insurers should routinely reimburse for these interventions.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.121984
PMID: 12021694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Vasc Surg. 2002 May;35(5):902-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.123675.

Tissue loss, early primary graft occlusion, female gender, and a prohibitive 
failure rate of secondary infrainguinal arterial reconstruction.

Henke PK(1), Proctor MC, Zajkowski PJ, Bedi A, Upchurch GR Jr, Wakefield TW, 
Jacobs LA, Greenfield LJ, Stanley JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Michigan Medical School, 2210 
Taubman Health Care Center, 1150 W. Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-0329, USA. henke@umich.edu

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2002 May;35(5):1020-1.

PURPOSE: This study tested the hypothesis that a subset of secondary 
infrainguinal arterial reconstructions show prohibitive failure rates.
METHODS: Records of 79 consecutive patients, 44 men and 35 women, with a mean 
age of 60 years, who underwent secondary infrainguinal bypass from 1992 to 2000 
at the University of Michigan Hospital, were reviewed. Data were analyzed with 
life-table analysis, logistic regression, and descriptive statistics.
RESULTS: Secondary infrainguinal reconstructions were performed in patients who 
had undergone earlier ipsilateral bypasses once (n = 35) or twice (n = 44). 
Among the prior procedures, 68% (n = 54) were done at an institution other than 
the authors'. Comorbidities included coronary artery disease (72%), tobacco use 
(77%), and diabetes mellitus (34%), but no patient had hemodialysis-dependent 
renal failure. Disabling claudication, with average ankle brachial index of 
0.48, had been the indication for the primary operation in 77% of cases. 
Femoral-popliteal bypass was the primary procedure in 67%, with a prosthetic 
graft used in 62%. The mean patency duration of these earlier bypasses was 25 
months. The indication for the final bypass was rest pain or tissue loss in 51% 
of patients, with an average ankle brachial index of 0.37. The most common 
procedure was a femoral-distal bypass with autologous vein (63%). Mean patency 
duration of the secondary bypasses was 30 months. Graft failure within 30 days 
of operation occurred in 22 patients (28%), and amputation was necessitated in 
86% of these patients. The presence of rest pain or tissue loss, when 
accompanied with a history of early prior graft thrombosis in female patients, 
correlated with worse mean patency rates, recurrent graft failure (P </=.05), 
and a 94% amputation rate. Men in a similar setting incurred a 57% amputation 
rate. No association of final patency existed with regard to age, number of 
prior bypasses, conduit types, tobacco use, or diabetes.
CONCLUSION: Secondary infrainguinal bypasses are associated with an increased 
rate of graft failure and significant limb loss, particularly in those with a 
history of rest pain or tissue loss, female gender, and early prior graft 
failure. More appropriate initial operations in carefully selected patients and 
aggressive postoperative graft surveillance is speculated to improve these 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.123675
PMID: 12021705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2002 Jun;60(6):654-9. doi: 10.1053/joms.2002.33114.

Age as a factor in the complication rate after removal of unerupted/impacted 
third molars at the time of mandibular sagittal split osteotomy.

Reyneke JP(1), Tsakiris P, Becker P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Division of Surgery, University 
of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. drjprey@global.co.za

PURPOSE: This study was designed to investigate the effect that the presence of 
an unerupted third molar has on the mandibular sagittal split osteotomy (SSO).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One operator performed 139 SSOs (70 right side and 69 left 
side) in 70 patients during a period of 6 months. Data related to gender, age, 
presence or absence of unerupted third molar teeth, split difficulty during SSO, 
fracture complications of the segment, neurovascular bundle involvement at 
surgery, removal of unerupted third molar teeth, and the postoperative recovery 
of nerve function were recorded.
RESULTS: The SSOs evaluated as technically difficult were significantly more 
prevalent in mandibles with unerupted third molar teeth. All fractures (4) 
occurred in the younger age group (<20 years) with unerupted third molars 
present at the time of surgery. Although inferior alveolar nerve recovery was 
slower in the patients in whom the unerupted third molar teeth were present at 
the time of surgery due to increased frequency of neurovascular bundle 
manipulation, the recovery rates at 1 year were equal.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of unerupted third molar teeth increases the degree of 
difficulty of the SSO. Fracture of proximal and/or distal segments during SSO 
tend to occur more frequently in the younger age group (<20 years) with an 
unerupted third molar present.

Copyright 2002 American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons J Oral 
Maxillofac Surg 60:654-659, 2002

DOI: 10.1053/joms.2002.33114
PMID: 12022103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Health Popul Nutr. 2002 Mar;20(1):85-92.

Cholera in Brazil during 1991-1998: socioeconomic characterization of affected 
areas.

Waldman EA(1), Antunes JL, Nichiata LY, Takahashi RF, Cacavallo RC.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of SÃ£o Paulo, SP, Brazil. eawaldma@usp.br

The paper describes the trends in, and spatial patterns of, the incidence of 
cholera in Brazil from 1991 to 1998. During this period, 161,432 cases and 1,296 
deaths from cholera were reported. The poorest (North and Northeast) regions of 
the country had the highest morbidity and mortality rates. The remaining regions 
had self-limited outbreaks. Seventy-eight percent of affected municipalities had 
populations of fewer than 30,000, and about 65% of them lived in rural areas. 
The affected municipalities of the North and Northeast regions had consistent 
indications of deprivation: average Human Development Index was 0.41, infant 
mortality rate 90.3%, average life expectancy 59.4 years, and adult illiteracy 
rate 46.5%. The epidemiological profile of the disease in Brazil highlights 
intra- and inter-regional socioeconomic differentials in the country and 
indicates the importance of planning and implementing public-health 
interventions and specific policies aimed at reducing health inequalities.

PMID: 12022164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Health Econ. 2002 May;21(3):397-403. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00136-9.

A proposal to solve the comparability problem in cost-utility analysis.

Bleichrodt H(1), Herrero C, Pinto JL.

Author information:
(1)iMTA/iBMG, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bleichrodt@bmg.eur.nl

In cost-utility analysis it is assumed that health state valuations are directly 
comparable across individuals. Instead, health state valuations may be relative 
and related to people's expectations and abilities. Then health state valuations 
are not fully comparable across people and, consequently, cost utility analysis 
cannot be applied in full. The present paper analyzes this comparability problem 
and proposes a method to solve it.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00136-9
PMID: 12022265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Health Econ. 2002 May;21(3):405-21. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00133-3.

Paying to waste lives: the affordability of reducing mother-to-child 
transmission of HIV in South Africa.

Skordis J(1), Nattrass N.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa. 
jolene@pulsetrack.co.za

Erratum in
    J Health Econ 2002 Sep;21(5):927.

It is estimated that each HIV-positive child in South Africa costs the 
government more in terms of health and welfare expenses than it does to reduce 
mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV through the use of antiretroviral 
regimens (where the mother continues to breast-feed). Programmes to reduce MTCT 
of HIV/AIDS are, thus, clearly affordable. Using Nevirapine (according to the 
HIVNET 012 Protocol) saves more lives and [corrected] is more cost-effective 
than using Zidovudine (CDC 2 weeks regime).

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(01)00133-3
PMID: 12022266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Rheumatol. 2002 May;29(5):1079-83.

High response rate in the phase I/II study of meloxicam in juvenile rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Foeldvari I(1), Burgos-Vargas R, Thon A, Tuerck D.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Rheumatology Clinic, Am Allgemeinen Krankenhaus Eilbek, Hamburg, 
Germany. sprechstunde@kinderrheumatologie.de

OBJECTIVE: Use of meloxicam as a selective COX-2 inhibitor for treatment of 
adult rheumatic diseases decreases the frequency of gastrointestinal (GI) side 
effects in comparison with nonselective COX inhibitors. Up to 50% of children 
with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) also develop GI side effects through 
nonselective COX inhibitors. In this 12 week Phase I/II study, with an 
additional open extension lasting up to 52 weeks, the safety, efficacy, and 
pharmacokinetics of meloxicam in JRA were investigated.
METHODS: Meloxicam suspension 0.25 mg/kg once daily was given to 36 patients 
with JRA who required a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug. Safety evaluation 
and periodic measurement of efficacy were carried out using the Pediatric 
Rheumatology International Trials Organisation (PRINTO) criteria. Eighteen 
patients underwent pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation.
RESULTS: Thirty-one patients completed the study. Four were dropped due to 
administrative reasons. One patient, who found the drug ineffective, 
discontinued participation. A response was seen according to PRINTO outcome 
criteria in 44% of the patients at Week 4, 62% at Week 12, and 74% at Week 52. 
Drug related adverse events were observed in 5 patients. PK evaluation showed 
that the maximum plasma concentration Cmax of -34% and AUC(0-infinity) of -28% 
tended to be lower in younger children (2-6 years) versus older children. Plasma 
elimination half-life (13 h) was similar in all patients.
CONCLUSION: Meloxicam suspension 0.25 mg/kg once daily seems to be effective and 
safe for treating active JRA over a period of 52 weeks.

PMID: 12022326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Trop Pediatr. 2002 Apr;48(2):67-71. doi: 10.1093/tropej/48.2.67.

Years of potential life lost by children and adolescent victims of homicide, 
Recife, 1997.

Arnold MW(1), Neto GH, Figueiroa JN.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Materno Infantil de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

This is a study of years of potential life lost (YPLL) by children and 
adolescents aged between 1 month and 19 years who were victims of homicide in 
Recife during 1997. It also draws a profile of the victims. A descriptive, 
cross-sectional study was made of death certificates of Recife residents, aged 
between 1 month and 19 years, occurring during 1997, to identify homicides and 
the three other most frequent causes of death in the age group, in order to make 
a profile of homicide victims. YPLL was calculated for this cause of death and 
the other three. Homicide was responsible for 36.6 per cent of the deaths, 
followed by pneumonia (9.4 per cent), vehicle accidents (6.3 per cent) and other 
accidents (6.0 per cent). Most of the murder victims were 15-19-year-old male 
students, but their level of schooling was unknown in 96.6 per cent of cases. 
Death was caused by firearms in 93.2 per cent of the cases. Homicides were 
responsible for 59.1 per cent of YPLL, followed by pneumonia, vehicle accidents 
and other accidents. The risk of losing years of potential life by homicide in 
the group studied was 27.20 in 1000. These figures show the magnitude of 
homicides as a cause of premature death and how they have become a public health 
problem.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/48.2.67
PMID: 12022431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Disabil Rehabil. 2002 May 10;24(7):378-82. doi: 10.1080/09638280110096269.

Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) and rehabilitation.

Jelsma J(1), De Weerdt W, De Cock P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physiotherapy, School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University of Cape Town, South Africa. jjelsma@uctgshl.uct.ac.za

PURPOSE: The Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) is a unit that was developed 
for use in cost-effectiveness analysis and epidemiology studies. It is a 
combined measure of both death and disability, and has been extensively utilized 
in several countries and across various conditions. The purpose of this paper is 
to examine the implications for rehabilitation of the widespread use of this 
measure.
METHOD: The premises upon which the disability weight were developed are 
examined in the light of existing literature.
CONCLUSION: It is concluded that, whereas the incorporation of the impact of 
disability on disease burden is to be lauded, the DALY is insensitive to changes 
in disability status. Consequently, resource allocation to rehabilitation 
activities based on cost-effectiveness analysis using DALYs may be diminished. 
There is also a dearth of epidemiological information relating to disability and 
it is incumbent on rehabilitation professionals to address this lack. The DALY 
protocol is under revision and those concerned with rehabilitation issues should 
contribute to the debates surrounding cost-effectiveness analysis and the units 
that are used to determine the effectiveness component.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280110096269
PMID: 12022788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Jun;57(6):M347-51. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.6.m347.

Lifestyle habits and compression of morbidity.

Hubert HB(1), Bloch DA, Oehlert JW, Fries JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, California 
94304, USA. hhubert@stanford.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Jun;57(6):M338-42.

BACKGROUND: There has been much debate regarding the degree to which healthy 
lifestyles can increase longevity and whether added years will be offset by 
increased morbidity at older ages. This study was designed to test the 
compression of morbidity hypothesis, proposing that healthy lifestyles can 
reduce and compress disability into a shorter period toward the end of life.
METHODS: Functional status in 418 deceased members of an aging cohort was 
observed between 1986 and 1998 in relationship to lifestyle-related risk 
factors, including cigarette smoking, physical inactivity, and under- or 
overweight. Three risk groups were created based on the number of these factors 
at study entry. Disability scores prior to death were modeled for each risk 
group to compare levels and rates of change, as well as to determine if and when 
acceleration in functional decline occurred.
RESULTS: The risk-factor-free group showed average disability scores near zero 
10-12 years before death, rising slowly over time, without evidence of 
accelerated functional decline. In contrast, those with two or more factors 
maintained a greater level of disability throughout follow-up and experienced an 
increase in the rate of decline 1.5 years prior to death. For those at moderate 
risk, the rate of decline increased significantly only in the last 3 months of 
life. Other differences between groups provided no alternative explanations for 
the findings.
CONCLUSIONS: These results make a compelling argument for the reduction and 
postponement of disability with healthier lifestyles as proposed by the 
compression of morbidity hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.6.m347
PMID: 12023263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Brain. 2002 Jun;125(Pt 6):1320-5. doi: 10.1093/brain/awf127.

Autosomal dominant juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and distal hereditary 
motor neuronopathy with pyramidal tract signs: synonyms for the same disorder?

De Jonghe P(1), Auer-Grumbach M, Irobi J, Wagner K, Plecko B, Kennerson M, Zhu 
D, De Vriendt E, Van Gerwen V, Nicholson G, Hartung HP, Timmerman V.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genetics Department, Flanders Interuniversity Institute for 
Biotechnology, Antwerpen, Belgium. peter.dejonghe@ua.ac.be

Autosomal dominant juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rare 
disorder and so far only one family has been reported. Genetic linkage studies 
mapped the disease locus to chromosome 9q34 (ALS4). The diagnosis of ALS in this 
family is based on the clinical signs with almost exclusively lower motor 
neurone pathology in combination with less prominent pyramidal tract signs. 
Atypical features include normal life expectancy, the absence of bulbar 
involvement and the symmetrical distal distribution of atrophy and weakness. We 
performed a molecular genetic study in three families that we had diagnosed as 
having distal hereditary motor neuronopathy, i.e. distal spinal muscular atrophy 
or spinal Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome, and found linkage to the ALS4 locus. The 
clinical phenotype in these three families, of different geographic origin 
(Austria, Belgium and England), is strikingly similar to the autosomal dominant 
juvenile ALS family except for a younger onset age in two of the distal 
hereditary motor neuronopathy families. These data suggest that ALS4 and distal 
hereditary motor neuronopathy with pyramidal tract signs may be one and the same 
disorder.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awf127
PMID: 12023320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Med Pract Manage. 2002 Mar-Apr;17(5):272-7.

Using economic evidence in clinical practice.

Stone PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, School of Nursing, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY 
10032, USA.

Clinicians and health policy decision makers find themselves increasingly 
interested in economic evaluations. The purposes of this article are to review 
the types of economic analyses available to clinicians, discuss the measurement 
of costs in economic evaluations, review recommendations for standardization of 
cost-effectiveness analyses, and review strategies to integrate economic 
evidence in the establishment of evidence-based practice. A worksheet is 
presented that may be useful in the critiquing of economic evaluations for 
validity and applicability to clinical settings. Increased understanding of the 
methods employed to assess the rigor of the economic evaluations is needed by 
busy clinicians and health policy decision makers for economic evidence to be 
routinely applied in practice.

PMID: 12024866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Herz. 2002 Mar;27(2):107-12. doi: 10.1007/s00059-002-2350-2.

The incidence, pathophysiology, treatment and prognosis of Cheyne-Stokes 
breathing disorder in patients with congestive heart failure.

Ingbir M(1), Freimark D, Motro M, Adler Y.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Rehabilitation Institute and Heart Failure Unit, Sheba Medical 
Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

DEFINITION: Cheyne-Stokes respiration is a breathing disorder characterized by 
recurrent central sleep apneas, mainly during sleep, alternating with a 
crescendo-decrescendo pattern of tidal volume. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND PROGNOSIS: 
The pathophysiology of Cheyne-Stokes respiration, involving the cardiovascular, 
pulmonary and sympathetic nervous systems, is still not well understood. 
Although 50% of moderate to severe congestive heart failure patients suffer from 
significant Cheyne-Stokes respiration, studies been undertaken to determine the 
prevalence of this phenomenon and its implications regarding patients' life 
expectancy and quality of life were conducted only in recent years. Other 
studies suggest that Cheyne-Stokes respiration has a negative prognostic value 
upon congestive heart failure patients.
TREATMENT: Novel therapeutic approaches have been attempted in order to treat 
Cheyne-Stokes respiration; they include oxygen delivery, various pharmaceutical 
treatments aimed to stabilize the ventilatory system and other pharmaceutical 
treatments aimed to improve the left ventricular ejection fraction. However, 
none of them was effective.
OBJECTIVES: This review summarizes some of the current knowledge regarding 
Cheyne-Stokes respiration pathophysiology, prevalence, prognostic implication 
and available treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-002-2350-2
PMID: 12025457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 May-Jun;21(3):47-56. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.3.47.

Addressing inequity in health and health care in Mexico.

Barraza-LlorÃ©ns M(1), Bertozzi S, GonzÃ¡lez-Pier E, GutiÃ©rrez JP.

Author information:
(1)Mexican Ministry of Health.

Despite the fact that life expectancy at birth in Mexico has improved from 
forty-two years in 1940 to seventy-three in 2000, major inequalities persist in 
health and access to health care. The Mexican health care system has evolved 
into a series of disjointed subsystems that are incapable of delivering 
universal health insurance. Without greatly restructuring the way health care is 
financed, performance with respect to equity will remain poor. This paper 
presents the inequities of the system and describes how the current system 
contributes to the status quo rather than redressing the situation. After 
tracing the origins of the present system, we discuss policy initiatives for 
moving toward universal health insurance.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.3.47
PMID: 12026003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Health Aff (Millwood). 2002 May-Jun;21(3):57-69. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.21.3.57.

The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa: implications for U.S. policy.

Gow J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and HIV/AIDS Research Division, University of Natal, Durban, 
South Africa.

Political will or commitment toward the HIV epidemic has been lacking in most 
African countries. Although most countries are in denial, a few have moved into 
recognition of the epidemic. Only two countries, Senegal and Uganda, have moved 
into mobilization. Ineffectiveness is judged by increasing HIV prevalence rates 
and declining life expectancy. Countries without active national leadership to 
fight the epidemic have seen deterioration in these criteria. In addition to its 
toll in Africa, this epidemic threatens U.S. political, economic, and security 
interests. Political responses to manage the risks to the United States have 
revolved around much increased development assistance through traditional 
channels and financial support for the United Nations' Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.21.3.57
PMID: 12026004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Perspectives. 2000 Summer;24(2):8-14.

The impact of an aging population on curriculum development in Canadian 
undergraduate nursing education.

Baumbusch J(1), Goldenberg D.

Author information:
(1)University of Western Ontario.

The rise in numbers of persons 65 years of age and older due to increased life 
expectancy is necessitating a revision in undergraduate nursing education. Since 
additional qualified nurses will be required to care for this expanding 
population, nursing programs must include sufficient relevant gerontological 
content delivered by competent faculty to prepare these practitioners. The 
authors review pertinent literature, present several surveys outlining the 
current status of gerontology content in nursing and other allied health 
programs, and argue for gerontological nursing to be a core component of 
undergraduate programs.

PMID: 12026416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Pract Midwife. 2000 Jul-Aug;3(7):7.

New agency to combat health inequalities.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12026445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Public Health Nutr. 2002 Feb;5(1A):123-8. doi: 10.1079/PHN2001283.

Nutrition transition in Chile: determinants and consequences.

Albala C(1), Vio F, Kain J, Uauy R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INTA), University of Chile, 
Santiago. calbala@uchile.cl

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to analyse the determinants and 
consequences of the nutrition transition in Chile and describe the related 
health promotion policies.
DESIGN AND SETTING: This is a descriptive, population-based study including data 
on demographic, diet, nutrition and biomedical related variables. Data came from 
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the National Institute of 
Statistics (INE), the Ministries of Planning, Health and Education surveillance 
systems, and national surveys.
RESULTS: As malnutrition decreased during the 1980s, obesity increased rapidly 
in all age groups. In adults, currently about 25% of women are obese (body mass 
index >30 kg m(-2)); particularly those from low socio-economic levels. Among 
preschoolers, obesity is now 10% while in 6-year-old children it is 17.5% 
(weight/height greater than two standard deviations (>2SD) of the World Health 
Organization reference). Nutritional risk factors are prevalent, diet is 
changing to a 'Western diet' with an increasing fat consumption, and 
sedentarianism is constant in all groups. High blood pressure (>140/90) is 
greater than 10% in adults. Diabetes is increasing in urban areas, including in 
the indigenous population, and more than 40% of adults have a cholesterol level 
of more than 200 mg ml(-1).
CONCLUSIONS: Promotion of healthy lifestyles is the main strategy to cope with 
this situation, particularly changing behaviour in food habits, physical 
activity and psychosocial factors. Changes in lifestyles will not only allow the 
prolonged life expectancy to be of better quality, but also will favour a 
decrease in the morbidity and mortality from chronic diseases, mainly 
cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1079/PHN2001283
PMID: 12027274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Public Health Nutr. 2002 Feb;5(1A):135-40. doi: 10.1079/PHN2001285.

Nutrition transition in Morocco.

Benjelloun S(1).

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement des Sciences Alimentaires et Nutritionnelles, Institut 
Agronomique et VÃ©tÃ©rinaire Hassan II, Rabat, Morocco. jelloun@iav.ac.ma

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the nutritional transition in Morocco.
DESIGN: Examination of Moroccan national survey data.
RESULTS: Morocco is undergoing a demographic, epidemiological and social 
transition. The urban population increased from 29% in 1960 to 53% in 1997. Per 
capita gross domestic product increased steadily from 1972 to 1999. Life 
expectancy at birth increased to 70 years in 1999 from 47 years in 1962. Both 
infant and juvenile mortalities have decreased, from 92/1000 and 69/1000 in 
1982-87 to 46/1000 and 37/1000 in 1992-97, respectively. In parallel, the diet 
changed considerably: the intake of animal products increased while that of 
cereals and sugar remained relatively high, reflecting the specificity of 
Moroccan dietary habits. The rise in the consumption of meats and vegetables was 
accompanied by a steady consumption of bread, used to eat the sauce in which the 
meat and vegetables are cooked. Sugar is mainly used in tea, the very sweet, 
national drink consumed throughout the day. Under-nourishment persists among 
children under five (23% stunting and 10% underweight in 1997) while overweight 
is rising (9% in 1997 compared with 3% in 1987 for children under three). Among 
adults, overweight (body mass index (BMI) > 25 kg m(-2)) increased from 26% in 
1984 to 36% in 1998. It is higher among women (32% in 1984 and 45% in 1998) than 
among males (19% in 1984 and 25% in 1998). It is also higher among urban 
populations (30% in 1984 and 40% in 1998) than rural populations (20% in 1984 
and 29% in 1998). Obesity (BMI > 30kg m(-2)) increased from 4% in 1984 to 10% in 
1998. Overweight seems to be positively associated with economic status but 
negatively with education level.
CONCLUSION: Overweight and obesity constitute major health problems in Morocco.

DOI: 10.1079/PHN2001285
PMID: 12027276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Public Health Nutr. 2002 Feb;5(1A):183-9. doi: 10.1079/PHN2001292.

The nutrition and health transition in Thailand.

Kosulwat V(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition, Mahidol University, Phutthamonthon, Salaya, Nakhon 
Pathom, Thailand. grvpt@mucc.mahidol.ac.th

OBJECTIVE: To explore and describe the nutrition and health transition in 
Thailand in relation to social and economic changes, shifts in food consumption 
patterns and nutritional problems, as well as morbidity and mortality trends.
DESIGN: This report reviews the nutrition and health situation and other related 
issues by compiling information from various reports and publications from 
several sources. Yearly statistics and reports from the National Statistical 
Office were used as well as data from the Food and Agriculture Organization 
(FAO) and national surveys on the nutrition and health situation of the Thai 
population.
RESULTS: Thailand has undergone social and economic transitions during the past 
three decades and is approaching the post-demographic transitional period. These 
are evidenced by an increase in life expectancy at birth of the population, and 
declines in the total fertility and infant mortality rates. The economic 
structure has also moved from agricultural to industrial. Industrial growth has 
surpassed that of the agricultural sector as indicated by a steady rise in the 
share of the industrial sector in the gross domestic product, which is greater 
than that of other sectors. At the same time, results from several nation-wide 
surveys indicate that the food consumption pattern of the population has changed 
considerably; Thai staples and side dishes are being replaced by diets 
containing a higher proportion of fats and animal meat. A shift in the 
proportion of expenditure on food prepared at home and that expended on 
purchased, ready-to-eat food, in both rural and urban settings, gives another 
reflection of the change in food consumption of the Thai population. The 
prevalence of overweight and obesity among children and adolescents has 
increased dramatically during the past 20 years and is more pronounced in 
children from private schools and urban communities than in those from public 
schools or rural areas. Among adults, results from two national surveys in 1991 
and 1996 indicated that the problem of overweight and other risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease have increased significantly. In considering the overall 
causes of death among the Thai population, the leading causes are diet-related 
chronic degenerative diseases. Diseases of the circulatory system have become 
the number one cause of death in Thailand and cancer has ranked as the number 
three cause of death since the late 1980s.
CONCLUSIONS: The rapid changes in food intake and lifestyle patterns in Thailand 
clearly demonstrate a significant impact on the shifting pattern of disease 
burden of the population. These changes should be monitored carefully and must 
be reversed through appropriate behaviour modification and the promotion of 
appropriate eating practices and physical activities.

DOI: 10.1079/PHN2001292
PMID: 12027283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 May;50(5):863-9. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50212.x.

Deciding on anticoagulating the oldest old with atrial fibrillation: insights 
from cost-effectiveness analysis.

Desbiens NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee College of 
Medicine-Chattanooga Unit, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37403, USA. 
desbiena@erlanger.org

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Jun;51(6):885-7.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Jun;51(6):887-9.

OBJECTIVES: To better understand the tradeoffs between the efficacy of 
anticoagulation with warfarin and its side effects in the oldest old with 
nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation (AF).
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: Published literature, including meta-analyses when available, and 
web-based sources.
PARTICIPANTS: Those aged 65 to 100 with AF.
INTERVENTION: Anticoagulation with warfarin.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality-adjusted life expectancy and cost.
RESULTS: Anticoagulation is not effective in persons with AF who do not have 
other risk factors, even in the oldest old. The best argument for its use 
(prolongation of life at an acceptable cost) can be made in those at major risk 
for stroke because of previous stroke or transient ischemic attack, diabetes 
mellitus, and hypertension, but poor quality of life before anticoagulation and 
comorbidities that carry their own risks of dying diminish benefits. The 
decision to anticoagulate the oldest old with AF must take into consideration 
the risk of hemorrhagic stroke and of death from hemorrhagic stroke that existed 
before anticoagulation, the increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke and of death 
from hemorrhagic stroke while anticoagulated, and the efficacy of 
anticoagulation. Cost-effectiveness is also influenced by the cost of warfarin, 
the risk of major extracranial bleeding, the risk (natural and anticoagulated) 
of death from hemorrhagic stroke, the rate of ischemic stroke, the cost of major 
extracranial bleeding and hemorrhagic strokes, the cost of nursing home care, 
and the fraction of patients with stroke who need nursing home care.
CONCLUSION: There is no compelling evidence to date that anticoagulation 
prolongs quality-adjusted life expectancy in the oldest old with nonrheumatic 
AF. More studies that better estimate the risk of intracranial bleeding with and 
without anticoagulation in the oldest old are needed before recommendations can 
be made. The oldest old who are most likely to benefit are those who have a high 
risk of stroke secondary to risk factors other than age alone, although quality 
of life and life expectancy related to these risk factors limit obtained 
benefit. Recommendations that all older persons with AF should be anticoagulated 
are premature.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50212.x
PMID: 12028173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Feb;50(2):359-68. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.49283.x.

The genetics of exceptional human longevity.

Perls T(1), Kunkel LM, Puca AA.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Section, Boston Medical Center, Boston University Medical School, 
Massachusetts 02118, USA.

There is a substantial distinction to be made between the genetics of aging and 
the genetics of exceptional longevity. Twin studies suggest that the average set 
of genetic variations facilitates the average human's ability to live well into 
their octogenarian years. Other studies indicate that taking full advantage of 
this average set results in spending the majority of those years in good health. 
However, many people counteract such genetic endowment with poor health habits, 
resulting in a substantially lower average life expectancy and relatively more 
time spent in poor health. To live beyond the octogenarian years, life-span 
experiments in lower organisms and mammals and population and molecular genetic 
studies of centenarian sibships suggest that genetic factors play an important 
role in exceptional longevity. These factors are likely to influence basic 
mechanisms of aging, which in turn broadly influence susceptibility to 
age-related illnesses. Lacking genetic variations that predispose to disease, 
and having variations that confer disease resistance (longevity enabling genes), 
are probably both important to such a remarkable survival advantage. Recent 
studies indicate the likelihood that such factors will be elucidated in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.49283.x
PMID: 12028221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Jan;50(1):1-2. doi: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50036.x.

Aging comes of age. 1953.

Thompson WO.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50036.x
PMID: 12028236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Jan;50(1):202-4. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50035.x.

Geographical association of longevity and hospitalization in Japanese women.

Akishita M, Mizukawa S, Ohni M, Toba K, Yamaguchi J.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50035.x
PMID: 12028274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Intern Med. 2002 Jun;251(6):508-17. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2002.00990.x.

The cost-effectiveness of ramipril in the treatment of patients at high risk of 
cardiovascular events: a Swedish sub-study to the HOPE study.

BjÃ¶rholt I(1), Andersson FL, Kahan T, Ostergren J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, AstraZeneca Sverige AB, MÃ¶lndal, Sweden. 
ingela.bjorhol@astrazeneca.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate if long-term treatment with ramipril is cost-effective in 
patients at high risk of cardiovascular events.
DESIGN: Randomized double-blind and placebo controlled. Information was gathered 
prospectively for a number of direct medical, direct nonmedical and indirect 
costs.
SETTING AND SUBJECT: This is a sub-study to the Heart Outcomes Prevention 
Evaluation (HOPE) study performed in Swedish patients. All Swedish centres (19; 
n= 554) were invited to take part and 18 centres agreed to do so (n=537). The 
patients were managed in a specialist setting with a mean follow-up period of 
4.5 years. Main outcome measures. The number of life-years saved was derived 
from the global HOPE study (n=9297) and subsequently the estimated life 
expectancy of those who completed the clinical study alive was added to the 
calculation. Direct medical costs related to cardiovascular disease only were 
considered in the primary analysis, whilst all kinds of costs and costs for all 
kinds of diseases were included in subsequent analyses. The cost of added years 
of life, according to the future cost method, was included in sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: The cost per life-year gained was SEK 16 600 (Euro 1940) when direct 
medical costs for cardiovascular reasons only were considered and SEK 45 400 
(Euro 5300) when direct medical costs for all diseases were considered. The 
corresponding costs when direct nonmedical and indirect cost were added to the 
estimate were SEK 16 100 (Euro 1880) and SEK 54 600 (Euro 6380), respectively. 
When the future cost method was applied, the cost per life-year gained was SEK 
208 300 (Euro 24 300).
CONCLUSION: Ramipril is highly cost-effective in the treatment of patients at 
high risk of cardiovascular events.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2002.00990.x
PMID: 12028506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Arch Bronconeumol. 2002 May;38(5):251-2. doi: 10.1016/s0300-2896(02)75206-x.

[Current criteria for lung transplantation in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

GaudÃ³ Navarro J, Pacheco GalvÃ¡n A, MÃ¡iz Carro L.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2896(02)75206-x
PMID: 12028936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Support Care Cancer. 2002 May;10(4):314-21. doi: 10.1007/s005200100291. Epub 
2001 Nov 20.

When the treatment goal is not cure: are patients informed adequately?

Tattersall MH(1), Gattellari M, Voigt K, Butow PN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Medicine, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. 
mtatt@med.usyd.edu.au

Retraction in
    Support Care Cancer. 2011 Aug;19(8):1273.

We determined the extent to which Australian patients with incurable cancer are 
informed of their prognosis and treatment options by their oncologists and are 
encouraged to participate in treatment decisions. To this end, 118 patients with 
incurable cancer presenting for an initial consultation with one of nine 
oncologists in two Sydney teaching hospitals were enrolled in the study. 
Consultations were audio-taped. We developed a coding system to assess the 
disclosure of information considered necessary to equip patients to make 
informed decisions and to evaluate doctor encouragement of patient participation 
in treatment decision-making. Patient recall, satisfaction, and anxiety and 
their perceptions of the decision-making process were assessed. Most patients 
were informed about the aim of cancer treatment (84.7%), that their disease was 
incurable (74.6%) and about life expectancy (57.6%); 44.1% were presented with 
an alternative to cancer treatments, such as supportive care, 36.3% were 
informed how anticancer treatment would affect quality of life, and 29.7% were 
offered a management choice. Patient understanding was checked in only 10% of 
consultations. While greater information disclosure did not appear to elevate 
anxiety levels, greater patient participation in the decision making process was 
associated with increased anxiety levels ( P=0.0005), which persisted over a 
2-week time span. Most patients were well informed, but important gaps remain, 
especially concerning information about prognosis and alternatives to cancer 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s005200100291
PMID: 12029431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Food Prot. 2002 May;65(5):799-805. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-65.5.799.

Behavior of Listeria monocytogenes and Staphylococcus aureus in yogurt fermented 
with a bacteriocin-producing thermophilic starter.

Benkerroum N(1), Oubel H, Mimoun LB.

Author information:
(1)Institut Agronomique et VÃ©tÃ©rinaire Hassan II, DÃ©partement des Sciences 
Alimentaires et Nutritionnelles, Rabat, Morocco. n.benkerroum@iav.ac.ma

Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus B producing a bacteriocin active 
against Listeria monocytogenes ATCC 7644 and Staphylococcus aureus SAD 30 was 
isolated from bakery yeast. The bacteriocin was partially purified by an 
adsorption/desorption technique, and its spectrum of action was compared to that 
of a neutralized cell-free supernatant (CFS). Although the CFS inhibited a 
number of gram-positive and -negative bacteria of health and spoilage 
significance, the spectrum of action of the partially purified bacteriocin was 
limited to gram-positive bacteria. L. monocytogenes was the most sensitive to 
both preparations. The bacteriocin-producing streptococcal strain was used in 
combination with a Bac- Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus CY strain 
isolated from commercial yogurt to assess the effectiveness of the resulting 
thermophilic starter in controlling L. monocytogenes and S. aureus in yogurt 
during fermentation and storage at refrigeration (ca. 7 degrees C) or abuse (ca. 
22 degrees C) temperature. Yogurt samples were contaminated with L. 
monocytogenes or S. aureus to the approximate levels of 10(3) and 10(6) CFU/ml 
of milk, respectively. The results showed that in situ bacteriocin production 
was more active against L. monocytogenes than against S. aureus in vitro and in 
contaminated samples. While L. monocytogenes leveled off below the detectable 
limit in a 1-ml sample of yogurt within 24 h of processing, S. aureus survived 
in Bac+ and Bac- samples during 10 days of storage at room temperature (ca. 22 
degrees C). Use of a Bac+ starter resulted in a 5-day extension of the shelf 
life.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-65.5.799
PMID: 12030291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Health Expect. 2002 Jun;5(2):156-71. doi: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00177.x.

Women's views of two interventions designed to assist in the prophylactic 
oophorectomy decision: a qualitative pilot evaluation.

Bhavnani V(1), Clarke A, Dowie J, Kennedy A, Pell I.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, UK.

INTRODUCTION: A qualitative pilot evaluation of two different decision 
interventions for the prophylactic oophorectomy (PO) decision: a Decision Chart 
and a computerized clinical guidance programme (CGP) was undertaken. The 
Decision Chart, representing current practice in decision interventions, 
presents population-based information. The CGP elicits individual values to 
allow for quality-adjusted life years to be calculated and an explicit guidance 
statement is given. Prophylactic oophorectomy involves removal of the ovaries as 
an adjunct to hysterectomy to prevent ovarian cancer. The decision is complex 
because the operation can affect a number of long-term outcomes including breast 
cancer, coronary heart disease and osteoporosis.
METHODS: Both interventions were based on the evidence and were administered by 
a facilitator. The Decision Chart is a file, which progressively reveals 
information in the form of bar charts. The CGP is a decision-analysis based 
program integrating the results from a cluster of Markov cycle trees. The 
research evidence is incorporated with woman's individual risk factors, values 
and preferences. A purposive sample of 19 women awaiting hysterectomy used the 
decision interventions (10 CGP, nine Decision Chart). In-depth semi-structured 
interviews were undertaken. Interviews were transcribed and analysed to derive 
themes.
RESULTS: Reactions to the different decision interventions were mixed. Both were 
seen as clarifying the decision. Some women found some of the tasks difficult 
(e.g. rating health status). Some were surprised by the "individualized" 
guidance, which the CGP offered. The Decision Chart provided some with a sense 
of empowerment, although some found that it provided too much information.
CONCLUSIONS: Women were able to use both decision interventions. Both provided 
decision clarification. Problems were evident with both interventions, which 
give useful pointers for future development. These included the possibility for 
women to see how their individual risks of different outcomes are affected in 
the Decision Chart and enhanced explanation of the CGP tasks. Future design and 
evaluation of decision aids, will need to accommodate differences between 
patients in the desire for amount and type of information and level of 
involvement in the decision-making process.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00177.x
PMCID: PMC5060138
PMID: 12031056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Aten Primaria. 2002 May 15;29(8):517-21. doi: 10.1016/s0212-6567(02)70623-9.

[Quality-of-life questionnaire designed for diabetes mellitus (EsDQOL)].

[Article in Spanish]

Millan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Mutua de Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain. endocrinologia@mutuaterrassa.es

DOI: 10.1016/s0212-6567(02)70623-9
PMCID: PMC7679554
PMID: 12031227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Free Radic Biol Med. 2002 Jun 1;32(11):1229-34. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00849-3.

Effects of superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics on life span and oxidative 
stress resistance in the housefly, Musca domestica.

Bayne AC(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-9121, USA.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether superoxide dismutase/catalase 
mimetics lengthen the life span of the housefly, Musca domestica, as previously 
demonstrated for the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Various concentrations of 
Eukarion-8 or Eukarion-134 were administered via the drinking water and the 
effects on the life span of the flies and amounts of protein carbonyls were 
determined under normoxic and hyperoxic conditions. These SOD/catalase mimetics 
neither extended the life span of the flies nor attenuated the protein carbonyl 
content under normoxic conditions and shortened life span under hyperoxic 
conditions. Thus, the effect of these SOD/catalase mimetics on the life span of 
animals seem to be species-specific.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00849-3
PMID: 12031907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Expo Anal Environ Epidemiol. 2002 May;12(3):226-31. doi: 
10.1038/sj.jea.7500222.

Long-term air pollution indicator assessment: example of black smoke in 
Bordeaux, France.

Filleul L(1), Baldi I, Quenel P, Brochard P, Tessier JF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire SantÃ© Travail Environnement, Bordeaux, France. 
laurent.filleul@isped.u-bordeaux2

The aim of the second phase of the Pollution AtmosphÃ©rique et Affections 
Respiratoires Chroniques (PAARC) study, started in 1974, was to compare the 
long-term mortality between populations living in areas with different air 
pollution levels. In Bordeaux (France), four different areas were concerned by 
the study. The black smoke measures were realized between 1974 and 1981. After 
1981, the stations set specifically for the study were not used any more. The 
purpose of this study was to estimate the evolution of air pollution in those 
areas between 1982 and 1997 using the measures of 12 Association de PrÃ©vention 
de la Pollution AtmosphÃ©rique (APPA) stations located in Bordeaux city but not 
in the PAARC areas. The method used was divided in three phases: a correlation 
study between the stations of the different networks, a selection of the 
pertinent stations and the setting up of indicators using the arithmetic means 
method. Monthly means concentrations were estimated from January 1982 to 
December 1997. Models showed a decrease in black smoke levels whatever the area. 
The difference in level from one area to another, existing between the areas in 
1974, was still with predicted values in 1997, but less important. Black smoke 
mean concentration for 1982-1997 was, respectively, 16.4 and 16.2 microg/m3, in 
areas 1 and 2. It was a little bit higher in area 3 with 18.9 microg/m3. Area 4 
still has the highest level with 26.3 microg/m3. To conclude, this method 
enabled to assess different air pollution levels at different times in the four 
areas of the PAARC study in Bordeaux. Those levels could be used to study the 
impact of the air pollution on long-term mortality on populations living in the 
areas considered.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jea.7500222
PMID: 12032819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

