
797. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2002 Apr;13(4):399-405. doi: 
10.1046/j.1540-8167.2002.00399.x.

Atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure: specific considerations at the 
intersection of two common and important cardiac disease sets.

Ehrlich JR(1), Nattel S, Hohnloser SH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, J.W. Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) and congestive heart failure (CHF) are two increasingly 
common cardiac disorders with a growing prevalence in the overall population. 
Improved treatment of acute medical conditions has increased the incidence of 
these cardiac disorders. AF and CHF have similar epidemiologic characteristics 
and adversely affect quality of life and life expectancy of affected patients. 
CHF predisposes to AF, and AF may worsen the prognosis of CHF. The relevant 
literature was intensively reviewed with emphasis on aspects at the intersection 
of both disease sets. Recent advances in basic research have provided a more 
in-depth view of changes promoting the occurrence of AF in CHF. Data from 
clinical trials have provided means to improve medical treatment of AF. 
Precautions must be taken for specific CHF-related side effects, such as 
torsades de pointes tachycardia, when treating AF. The specific 
electrophysiologic basis of AF associated with CHF may provide targets for 
improved treatment modalities. New treatment approaches, both pharmacologic and 
nonpharmacologic, as well as the results of ongoing controlled clinical studies 
are likely to greatly alter AF therapy over the next 5 to 10 years in patients 
with CHF.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1540-8167.2002.00399.x
PMID: 12033360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Radiology. 2002 Jun;223(3):597-601. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2233012153.

Longevity.

Friedenberg RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California at Irvine 
Medical Center, Orange, USA.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2233012153
PMID: 12034921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20 Suppl 1:31-42. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200220001-00004.

Economic evaluation of pioglitazone hydrochloride in the management of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in Canada.

Coyle D(1), Palmer AJ, Tam R.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Epidemiology, and Community Medicine, University 
of Ottawa; Clinical Epidemiology, Ottawa Health Research Institute, Ottawa 
Hospital; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. dcoyle@ohri.ca

INTRODUCTION: Recently published clinical trial results have demonstrated that, 
in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, treatment with pioglitazone 
hydrochloride as a first-line therapy can lead to significant improvements in 
glycosylated haemoglobin, total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein 
cholesterol and triglycerides. Given the results of these trials, we assessed 
the cost effectiveness of the use of pioglitazone as a first-line therapy in 
Canada.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to determine the health outcomes and economic 
impact for patients with type 2 diabetes, from the perspective of a provincial 
ministry of health. The model incorporated six complications of diabetes: 
hypoglycaemia, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, lower extremity amputation, 
nephropathy, and retinopathy. Transition probabilities and costs were taken from 
published literature. Analysis compared treatment strategies with different 
first-line therapies: pioglitazone, glibenclamide (glyburide), metformin, and 
diet and exercise.
RESULTS: Compared with other strategies, a pioglitazone-based strategy was 
estimated to reduce the cumulative incidence of severe clinical events and 
long-term complications by between 23 and 36% and to increase discounted life 
expectancy by between 0.13 and 0.35 life-years. The discounted incremental cost 
per life-year gained of a first-line pioglitazone-based strategy was 54,000 
Canadian dollars ($Can) compared with metformin, $Can42,000 compared with 
glibenclamide and $Can27,000 compared with diet and exercise.
CONCLUSIONS: When compared with other currently funded chronic therapy, these 
results demonstrate that a treatment strategy employing pioglitazone as a 
first-line therapy may be cost effective for certain patient strata.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220001-00004
PMID: 12036382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Am J Public Health. 2002 Jun;92(6):990-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.92.6.990.

Benefits of smoking cessation for longevity.

Taylor DH Jr(1), Hasselblad V, Henley SJ, Thun MJ, Sloan FA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy, Law and Management, Terry Sanford Institute of 
Public Policy Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
dtaylor@hpolicy.duke.edu

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health 2002 Sep;92(9):1389.

OBJECTIVES: This study determined the life extension obtained from stopping 
smoking at various ages.
METHODS: We estimated the relation between smoking and mortality among 877,243 
respondents to the Cancer Prevention Study II. These estimates were applied to 
the 1990 US census population to examine the longevity benefits of smoking 
cessation.
RESULTS: Life expectancy among smokers who quit at age 35 exceeded that of 
continuing smokers by 6.9 to 8.5 years for men and 6.1 to 7.7 years for women. 
Smokers who quit at younger ages realized greater life extensions. However, even 
those who quit much later in life gained some benefits: among smokers who quit 
at age 65 years, men gained 1.4 to 2.0 years of life, and women gained 2.7 to 
3.7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Stopping smoking as early as possible is important, but cessation 
at any age provides meaningful life extensions.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.6.990
PMCID: PMC1447499
PMID: 12036794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. BMJ. 2002 Jun 1;324(7349):1303. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7349.1303.

Cost effectiveness analysis of different approaches of screening for familial 
hypercholesterolaemia.

Marks D(1), Wonderling D, Thorogood M, Lambert H, Humphries SE, Neil HA.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2002 Aug 10;325(7359):340.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness of strategies to screen for and 
treat familial hypercholesterolaemia.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis. A care pathway for each patient was 
delineated and the associated probabilities, benefits, and costs were 
calculated.
PARTICIPANTS: Simulated population aged 16-54 years in England and Wales.
INTERVENTIONS: Identification and treatment of patients with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia by universal screening, opportunistic screening in primary 
care, screening of people admitted to hospital with premature myocardial 
infarction, or tracing family members of affected patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost effectiveness calculated as cost per life year gained 
(extension of life expectancy resulting from intervention) including estimated 
costs of screening and treatment.
RESULTS: Tracing of family members was the most cost effective strategy (3097 
pounds sterling (euros 5066, $4479) per life year gained) as 2.6 individuals 
need to be screened to identify one case at a cost of 133 pounds sterling per 
case detected. If the genetic mutation was known within the family then the cost 
per life year gained (4914 pounds sterling ) was only slightly increased by 
genetic confirmation of the diagnosis. Universal population screening was least 
cost effective (13 029 pounds sterling per life year gained) as 1365 individuals 
need to be screened at a cost of 9754 pounds sterling per case detected. For 
each strategy it was more cost effective to screen younger people and women. 
Targeted strategies were more expensive per person screened, but the cost per 
case detected was lower. Population screening of 16 year olds only was as cost 
effective as family tracing (2777 pounds sterling with a clinical confirmation).
CONCLUSIONS: Screening family members of people with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia is the most cost effective option for detecting cases 
across the whole population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.324.7349.1303
PMCID: PMC113765
PMID: 12039822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Clin Oncol. 2002 Jun 1;20(11):2713-25. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2002.07.008.

Decision-analytic model and cost-effectiveness evaluation of postmastectomy 
radiation therapy in high-risk premenopausal breast cancer patients.

Lee JH(1), Glick HA, Hayman JA, Solin LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Division of General Internal Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
jasonlee@massmed.org

PURPOSE: To present a decision model that describes the clinical and economic 
outcomes of node-positive breast cancer with and without postmastectomy 
radiation therapy (PMRT).
METHODS: A Markov process was constructed to project the natural history of 
breast cancer following mastectomy in premenopausal node-positive women. 
Biannual hazards of local and distant recurrence without PMRT were derived from 
a large meta-analysis of adjuvant systemic therapy trials for breast cancer. The 
addition of PMRT reduced the risk of disease relapse by an odds ratio of 0.69. 
Costs of PMRT ($11,600) and recurrent breast cancer ($4,250 to 16,200/year) were 
estimated from available literature. The model projected number of recurrences, 
relapse-free and overall survival, and costs to 15 years, using a discount rate 
of 3%. Cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated per incremental year of life 
and quality-adjusted year of life gained. One- and two-way sensitivity analyses 
were performed to determine the sensitivity of results to clinical and economic 
assumptions.
RESULTS: The model projected 15-year relapse-free survival of 52% and 43% with 
and without PMRT, respectively. Overall survival was increased from 48% to 55% 
with PMRT, resulting in an incremental 0.29 years of life gained per subject. 
PMRT increased 15-year costs from $40,800 to $48,100. Cost per year of life 
gained was $24,900, or $22,600 when survival was adjusted for quality of life. 
Results of the model were relatively sensitive to radiation therapy cost and 
breast cancer relapse risk.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that PMRT offers substantial clinical 
benefits achieved in a cost-effective manner, with an average cost per year of 
life gained of $24,900. Results of the model were robust under a wide range of 
clinical and economic parameters.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2002.07.008
PMID: 12039934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2002 Jun;13(6):1635-44. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000014251.87778.01.

Cumulative risk for developing end-stage renal disease in the US population.

Kiberd BA(1), Clase CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
bkiberd@is.dal.ca

Erratum in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2002 Oct;13(10):2617.

The individual risk of developing end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and its overall 
impact on life expectancy is not known. This study's objectives were to 
determine the effect of ESRD on life expectancy for a cohort of 20-yr-olds and 
to compare this impact to that of several cancers for which population-based 
screening programs exist. A computer simulation, stratified by race (white, 
black) and by gender was used to calculate cumulative lifetime risk of ESRD, 
life-years lost to ESRD, and cumulative Medicare payments for ESRD. Similar 
calculations were made for breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer. The 
cumulative lifetime risk of ESRD for a 20-yr-old black woman is 7.8%. Equivalent 
risks for black men are 7.3%, white men 2.5%, and white women 1.8%. Lost years 
of life attributable to ESRD are 1.09, 1.10, 0.40, and 0.32 yr for black women, 
black men, white men, and white women, respectively. In blacks, ESRD is 
responsible for nearly as much loss of life-years as breast cancer in women and 
more loss of life-years than colorectal or prostate cancer in men. In addition, 
treatment costs for ESRD in this population are many-fold more expensive than 
cumulative treatment costs of these cancers. Exploring new screening and 
treatment strategies may be warranted to prevent ESRD, particularly in the US 
black population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000014251.87778.01
PMID: 12039993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Rev Lat Am Enfermagem. 2001 May;9(3):58-63. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-11692001000300009.

[Survey on risk factors for type 2 diabetes mellitus at a higher education 
institution].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ortiz MC(1), Zanetti ML.

Author information:
(1)Escola de Enfermagem de Ribeirão Preto da Universidade de São Paulo.

The increase in the population's life expectancy, the decrease in people's 
physical activity and the increase in calorie intake play an important role in 
the onset of diabetes. Therefore, this study aims at identifying risks factors 
for type-2 diabetes mellitus in 99 subjects from a teaching institution in a 
city in the interior of São Paulo State, Brazil. The results enabled the 
conclusion that 51.5% of the subjects were overweight; 51.5% had hereditary 
antecedents, 70% did not do physical exercises regularly, 68% felt stressed at 
work and 6% had altered pressure levels. The results showed the need for an 
education program within the institution aiming at awaking in the subjects the 
need to look for healthy life styles in order to prevent risks factors for 
type-2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-11692001000300009
PMID: 12040791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Can Supreme Court Rep Can Supreme Court. 1993 Sep 30;[1993] 3:519-632.

Rodriguez v. British Columbia (Attorney-General).

Canada. Supreme Court.

KIE: The Supreme Court of Canada dismissed the petition of Sue Rodriguez, for a 
waiver of Section 241 of the Canadian Criminal Code, which makes it unlawful to 
aid or abet anyone in committing suicide. Rodriguez, who suffered from 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a disease with an average life expectancy of 
three years, sought the waiver in order to make it permissible for her to be 
assisted in committing suicide when her illness became unbearable. The Court, in 
agreeing with two lower courts which had dismissed her application, held that 
section 241 did not infringe improperly upon the rights guaranteed by the 
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, including autonomy over one's person, 
freedom from cruel and unusual punishment, or deprivation of any benefit because 
of physical disabilities.

PMID: 12041103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Br J Plast Surg. 2002 Apr;55(3):198-202. doi: 10.1054/bjps.2002.3812.

A comparison of the donor-site morbidity after using the prelaminated 
fasciomucosal flap and the fasciocutaneous radial forearm flap for intraoral 
reconstruction.

Nehrer-Tairych GV(1), Millesi W, Schuhfried O, Rath T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Vienna Lainz Hospital, 
Austria.

Since 1996 we have performed mucosal prelamination of the distal radial forearm 
flap for functional reconstruction of defects of the intraoral lining. This 
study was undertaken to demonstrate that the prelaminated fasciomucosal radial 
forearm flap can provide physiological oropharyngeal reconstruction with 
mucus-producing tissue, while avoiding the donor-site complications of the 
fasciocutaneous radial forearm flap. We examined the donor hand at least 6 
months postoperatively in 20 patients after using a prelaminated fasciomucosal 
radial forearm flap and in 15 patients after harvesting a classical 
fasciocutaneous radial forearm flap. The evaluation of hand function included 
range of motion, grip power, pinch power, sensibility and vascular analysis in 
both hands. The patients were asked about cold intolerance, pain and any 
restrictions in daily life, and the cosmetic appearance of the donor hand was 
noted. In the prelaminated-flap group (n 20), two patients had decreased wrist 
extension, and one of these patients also had reduced strength and mild 
hypaesthesia in the donor hand. In the classical-fasciocutaneous-flap group (n 
15), six patients had decreased wrist extension, five patients had reduced 
strength and four patients had diminished sensibility in the donor hand. Painful 
neuromas were found only after fasciocutaneous flaps (three cases). Subjective 
assessment revealed restricted hand function in one patient in the 
prelaminated-flap group, and in five patients who had undergone fasciocutaneous 
flap transfer. The results of this study show that using the prelaminated 
fasciomucosal radial forearm flap minimises the donor-site morbidity. 
Furthermore, we were able to improve the cosmetic appearance of this very 
exposed region.

Copyright 2002 The British Association of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1054/bjps.2002.3812
PMID: 12041971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Hum Reprod. 2002 Jun;17(6):1525-31. doi: 10.1093/humrep/17.6.1525.

Cohort follow-up of couples with primary infertility in an ART programme using 
frozen donor semen.

Guerif F(1), Fourquet F, Marret H, Saussereau MH, Barthelemy C, Lecomte C, 
Lecomte P, Lansac J, Royere D.

Author information:
(1)CECOS, Biologie de la Reproduction, Département de Gynécologie-Obstétrique et 
Reproduction Humaine, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Bretonneau, 37044 Tours, 
France.

BACKGROUND: This study was designed to determine the crude cumulative live-birth 
rates in a cohort initiating frozen donor semen treatment until completion.
METHODS: This cohort study included 588 couples with primary infertility in one 
University Hospital centre. The treatment sequence involved first artificial 
insemination (AID) followed by IVF if necessary (IVF-D). Live birth, drop-out 
for personal or medical reasons and recourse to IVF-D were recorded for all 
patients. Live births and drop-out were expressed both as rates per cycle and 
crude cumulative rates.
RESULTS: At the completion of AID and IVF-D cycles, 406 couples in the cohort 
(69%) achieved a live-birth and 182 couples (31%) discontinued treatment. In 
most cases, couples stopped treatment for personal reasons (74%) whereas fewer 
couples were denied further treatment for medical reasons (26%).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on the crude cumulative live-birth rate in 
a cohort after AID and IVF-D cycles. Although calculation based on crude 
cumulative live-birth rate shows lower results in comparison with life table 
analysis, this method allows patients to obtain an insight into their actual 
chances of achieving a successful pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/17.6.1525
PMID: 12042272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Nutr. 2002 Jun;132(6 Suppl 2):1604S-6S. doi: 10.1093/jn/132.6.1604S.

Telomere lengths in dogs decrease with increasing donor age.

McKevitt TP(1), Nasir L, Devlin P, Argyle DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Small Animal Clinical Studies, University of Glasgow Veterinary 
School, Glasgow, UK. t.mckevitt@vet.gla.ac.uk

In vitro and in vivo studies of human tissues have demonstrated telomeric 
attrition with age and have linked this attrition to cellular senescence and 
aging. Telomere studies in canine subjects have not thus far consistently 
uncovered the same pattern of telomere attrition that would be expected because 
of the end replication problem. In this report we describe the investigation of 
telomere lengths in a broad age range of dogs from three different breeds: the 
Labrador Retriever, Miniature Schnauzer and Beagle. Peripheral blood mononuclear 
cell-derived DNA samples were subjected to terminal restriction fragment (TRF) 
analysis and demonstrated a range of mean TRFs from 9.7 to 22.3 kbp. Telomeric 
attrition tended to be associated with increasing donor age (P = 0.06). 
Interbreed differences in mean TRF values were also noted (P = 0.006). These 
results warrant further investigation of possible interbreed differences, given 
that shorter telomeres may contribute to differing life expectancy between 
breeds.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/132.6.1604S
PMID: 12042469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Pediatrics. 2002 Jun;109(6):1144-52. doi: 10.1542/peds.109.6.1144.

The prevalence of pain in pediatric human immunodeficiency virus/acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome as reported by participants in the Pediatric Late 
Outcomes Study (PACTG 219).

Gaughan DM(1), Hughes MD, Seage GR 3rd, Selwyn PA, Carey VJ, Gortmaker SL, 
Oleske JM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biostatistics in AIDS Research, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. gaughan@sdac.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: As the life expectancy of children with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) increases, quality-of-life 
outcomes are of increasing concern. The prevalence of pain in adults with AIDS 
ranges from 40% to 60%, depending on stage of illness. There is limited research 
concerning pain in HIV-infected children and youth.
DESIGN: The General Health Assessment for Children was administered to 
caregivers of HIV-infected children and youth enrolled in the Pediatric Late 
Outcomes Study (PACTG 219), a prospective cohort study. Pain is assessed over 
the previous month with 7 questions. For the purpose of this analysis, we 
defined pain as the presence of pain of at least moderate intensity. 
Participants were observed from January 1, 1996, to December 31, 1999.
RESULTS: A total of 985 HIV-positive participants had a baseline pain evaluation 
in 1995. The prevalence of pain remained relatively constant during each year of 
observation, averaging 20%. Lower CD4+ T-lymphocyte percentage, female gender, 
and an HIV/AIDS-related diagnosis were highly associated with an increased risk 
of reported pain. Pain was also independently associated with increased risk of 
death. After adjusting for CD4 percentage, use of combination therapy including 
protease inhibitors, comorbid diagnoses, and other sociodemographic 
characteristics, individuals reporting pain were over 5 times more likely to die 
than those not reporting pain (hazard ratio = 5.07; 95% confidence interval = 
3.23-7.95).
CONCLUSIONS: Pain is a frequently encountered symptom in children and youth with 
HIV disease and is also associated with increased mortality. These findings 
emphasize the importance of pain management in this population.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.109.6.1144
PMID: 12042556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Public Health Rep. 2001 Sep-Oct;116(5):474-83. doi: 10.1093/phr/116.5.474.

Black-white inequalities in mortality and life expectancy, 1933-1999: 
implications for healthy people 2010.

Levine RS(1), Foster JE, Fullilove RE, Fullilove MT, Briggs NC, Hull PC, Husaini 
BA, Hennekens CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Meharry Medical College, 
Nashville, TN 37208, USA. rlevine@mail.mmc.edu

OBJECTIVES: Optimistic predictions for the Healthy People 2010 goals of 
eliminating racial/ethnic disparities in health have been made based on absolute 
improvements in life expectancy and mortality. This study sought to determine 
whether there is evidence of relative improvement (a more valid measure of 
inequality) in life expectancy and mortality, and whether such improvement, if 
demonstrated, predicts future success in eliminating disparities.
METHODS: Historical data from the National Center for Health Statistics and the 
Census Bureau were used to predict future trends in relative mortality and life 
expectancy, employing an Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model. 
Excess mortality and time lags in mortality and life expectancy for blacks 
relative to whites were also estimated.
RESULTS: Based on data for 1945 to 1999, forecasts for relative black:white 
age-adjusted, all-cause mortality and white:black life expectancy at birth 
showed trends toward increasing disparities. From 1979, when the Healthy People 
initiative began, to 1998, the black:white ratio of age-adjusted, 
gender-specific mortality increased for all but one of nine causes of death that 
accounted for 83.4% of all US mortality in 1998. From 1980 to 1998, average 
numbers of excess deaths per day among American blacks relative to whites 
increased by 20%. American blacks experienced 4.3 to 4.5 million premature 
deaths relative to whites in 1940-1999.
CONCLUSIONS: The rationale that underlies the optimistic Healthy People 2010 
forecasts, that future success can be built on a foundation of past success, is 
not supported when relative measures of inequality are used. There has been no 
sustained decrease in black-white inequalities in age-adjusted mortality or life 
expectancy at birth at the national level since 1945. Without fundamental 
changes, most probably related to the ways medical and public health 
practitioners are trained, evaluated, and compensated for prevention-related 
activities, as well as further research on translating the findings of 
prevention studies into clinical practice, it is likely that simply reducing 
disparities in access to care and/or medical treatment will be insufficient. 
Millions of premature deaths will continue to occur among African Americans.

DOI: 10.1093/phr/116.5.474
PMCID: PMC1497364
PMID: 12042611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Jun;35(6):1107-13. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.124374.

Early results of external iliac artery stenting combined with common femoral 
artery endarterectomy.

Nelson PR(1), Powell RJ, Schermerhorn ML, Fillinger MF, Zwolak RM, Walsh DB, 
Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock 
Medical Center, Dartmouth Medical School, One Medical Center Drive, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA.

PURPOSE: The endovascular approach to external iliac artery (EIA) disease 
extending into the common femoral artery (CFA) has been avoided because of 
problems with stent placement across the inguinal ligament. Surgical treatment 
for this disease distribution includes extensive endarterectomy or bypass 
procedures or both. We report our initial experience with a combined open and 
endovascular approach to these patients.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of all patients who underwent 
intraoperative EIA stenting after CFA endarterectomy/patch angioplasty between 
1997 and 2000. Stents were positioned to end at the proximal endarterectomy 
endpoint, without crossing the inguinal ligament. Technical success, hemodynamic 
success, and clinical success were determined according to Society of Vascular 
Surgery/International Society of Cardiovascular Surgery criteria. Life-table 
analysis was performed for patency.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients (mean age, 68 years; 23 male, 11 female) had 
combined endovascular and open treatment of iliofemoral occlusive disease. 
Indications were claudication in 41% and critical limb ischemia in 59%. Femoral 
reconstruction included endarterectomy with patch angioplasty in all patients. 
EIA stent deployment incorporated the stenotic iliac segment and the proximal 
endpoint of the endarterectomy in all patients. Four patients (12%) also needed 
common iliac angioplasty at the same time for proximal iliac disease, and 14 
patients (41%) also needed distal revascularization for associated 
femoropopliteal or tibial disease. Technical success and hemodynamic success 
were achieved in 100% of patients. Clinical success was achieved in 97% of 
patients. The mean postoperative increase in ankle-brachial index in patients 
with inflow procedures only was 0.36 (range, 0.1 to 0.85). The overall 
complication rate was 15%. With a mean follow-up period of 13 months (range, 0.5 
to 28 months), 1-year primary patency and primary-assisted patency rates were 
84% and 97%, respectively. No perioperative mortality was seen.
CONCLUSION: EIA stenting as an adjunct to CFA endarterectomy/patch angioplasty 
allows for more localized surgery than conventional bypass. This approach also 
allows a better interface between the stent and endarterectomy than staged 
preoperative stenting. Technical success and early patency rates are excellent.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.124374
PMID: 12042720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. BMJ. 2002 Jun 1;324(7349):1296. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7349.1296/b.

Uninsured Americans are more likely to die prematurely.

Marwick C.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.324.7349.1296/b
PMCID: PMC1172172
PMID: 12043723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Jun;10(3):238-44. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00141-7.

Mid-term follow-up in patients with Biocor porcine bioprostheses.

Bottio T(1), Rizzoli G, Gerosa G, Thiene G, Casarotto D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Padua Medical School, 
Padua, Italy. tbottio@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Prosthetic cardiac valves have increased life expectancy of patients 
(pts) with valvular heart disease. Bioprosthetic complications required devices 
replacements within 10 years of implantation; structural valve deterioration 
(SVD) has emerged as the major cause of reoperation. We reviewed survival and 
prosthetic complications of Biocor porcine bioprostheses implanted in mitral, 
aortic and mitro-aortic position.
METHODS: Between January 1991 and January 2001 446 pts (192 males; 254 females; 
mean age 73.4+/-6.7 year, range 40-91) received 258 aortic, 138 mitral and 50 
mitro-aortic Biocor porcine valves; of these 83 pts have previous different 
types of prosthetic devices (15 aortic, 53 mitral and 15 double). Concomitant 
cardiac procedures, namely myocardial revascularization, were performed in 
91/446 pts (20.5%). All explanted bioprostheses (BPS) were available for 
pathologic investigation. Follow-up included 1319 pt.-years and was 98% complete 
with a median time of 36 pt.-months.
RESULTS: Perioperative mortality was 6.8% (30/446 pts; 12 aortic, 17 mitral and 
1 double) and was mostly related to reoperations. At the end of follow-up 18.5% 
of pts died (77/416), 12 deaths were valve-related with freedom from valve 
related mortality of 94% at 9 years. Survival was 54% at 9 years. It was 63%, 
41% and 62% for aortic, mitral and double valve replacement, respectively. At 
follow-up 87% of pts. were in NYHA I-II class and 13% were in III-IV class; 55% 
were in sinus rhythm, 36% in atrial fibrillation and 9% had a pace-maker. 
Eighty-five percent of pts were anticoagulated. There were 6 thromboembolic and 
5 anticoagulant-related haemorrhagic episodes with no significant difference 
between aortic and mitral position (p=0.7). The event freedom was respectively 
92% and 98.5% at 9 years. Prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) and non-SVD 
freedom were 96% and 93% at 9 years. SVD due to tissue degeneration, 
calcification and cusp's tears affected 2 pts with 94% freedom at 9 years. 
Overall freedom from all valve-related complications was 80% at 9 years and 
freedom from reoperation was 92% at 9 years.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Our intermediate-term follow-up of the Biocor porcine valve 
(BPS) showed excellent durability in all positions. (2) The aortic patients and 
especially the oldest group had better results than the mitral patients (41% vs. 
63% 9 years survival, p=0.0004). (3) Higher mitral risk was related to higher 
prevalence of reoperations. (4) The incidence of anticoagulation-related 
complications is low in both aortic and mitral position without significant 
difference (p=0.7). 4) A longer follow-up is required to get more information 
about SVD timing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(01)00141-7
PMID: 12044432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Neuroscience. 2002;112(2):243-60. doi: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00088-x.

Health implications of creatine: can oral creatine supplementation protect 
against neurological and atherosclerotic disease?

Wyss M(1), Schulze A.

Author information:
(1)Roche Vitamins AG, Biotechnology Department (VFB), Building 203/113A, CH-4070 
Basel, Switzerland. markus.wyss@roche.com

Major achievements made over the last several years have highlighted the 
important roles of creatine and the creatine kinase reaction in health and 
disease. Inborn errors of metabolism have been identified in the three main 
steps involved in creatine metabolism: arginine:glycine amidinotransferase 
(AGAT), S-adenosyl-L-methionine:N-guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GAMT), and 
the creatine transporter. All these diseases are characterized by a lack of 
creatine and phosphorylcreatine in the brain, and by (severe) mental 
retardation. Similarly, knockout mice lacking the brain cytosolic and 
mitochondrial isoenzymes of creatine kinase displayed a slightly increased 
creatine concentration, but no phosphorylcreatine in the brain. These mice 
revealed decreased weight gain and reduced life expectancy, disturbed fat 
metabolism, behavioral abnormalities and impaired learning capacity. Oral 
creatine supplementation improved the clinical symptoms in both AGAT and GAMT 
deficiency, but not in creatine transporter deficiency. In addition, creatine 
supplementation displayed neuroprotective effects in several animal models of 
neurological disease, such as Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, or 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. All these findings pinpoint to a close 
correlation between the functional capacity of the creatine 
kinase/phosphorylcreatine/creatine system and proper brain function. They also 
offer a starting-point for novel means of delaying neurodegenerative disease, 
and/or for strengthening memory function and intellectual capabilities.Finally, 
creatine biosynthesis has been postulated as a major effector of homocysteine 
concentration in the plasma, which has been identified as an independent graded 
risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. By decreasing homocysteine production, 
oral creatine supplementation may, thus, also lower the risk for developing, 
e.g., coronary heart disease or cerebrovascular disease. Although compelling, 
these results require further confirmation in clinical studies in humans, 
together with a thorough evaluation of the safety of oral creatine 
supplementation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00088-x
PMID: 12044443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Eur J Cancer. 2002 Jun;38(9):1241-50; discussion 1251-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00091-6.

The quality of survival after childhood cancer.

Jenney ME(1), Levitt GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Llandough Hospital, Penarth, South Glamorgan, UK. 
meriel.jenny@lhct-tr.wales.nhs.uk

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)00091-6
PMID: 12044511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Mech Ageing Dev. 2002 Apr 30;123(8):1087-100. doi: 
10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00392-x.

Why (--)deprenyl prolongs survivals of experimental animals: increase of 
anti-oxidant enzymes in brain and other body tissues as well as mobilization of 
various humoral factors may lead to systemic anti-aging effects.

Kitani K(1), Minami C, Isobe K, Maehara K, Kanai S, Ivy GO, Carrillo MC.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Longevity Sciences, 36-3, Gengo, Morioka-cho, Obu-shi, 
Aichi 474-8522, Japan. kitani@nils.go.jp

(--)Deprenyl, a monoamine oxidase B (MAO B) inhibitor is known to upregulate 
activities of anti-oxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and 
catalase (CAT) in brain dopaminergic regions. The drug is also the sole chemical 
which has been repeatedly shown to increase life spans of several animal species 
including rats, mice, hamsters and dogs. Further, the drug was recently found to 
enhance anti-oxidant enzyme activities not only in brain dopaminergic regions 
but also in extra-brain tissues such as the heart, kidneys, adrenal glands and 
the spleen. We and others have also observed mobilization of many humoral 
factors (interferone (INF)-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, 
interleukine (IL)-1beta,2,6, trophic factors, etc.) and enhancement of natural 
killer (NK) cell functions by (-)deprenyl administration. An apparent extension 
of life spans of experimental animals reported in the past may be better 
explained by these new observations that (-)deprenyl upregulate SOD and CAT 
activities not only in the brain but also in extra-brain vital organs and 
involve anti-tumorigenic as well as immunomodulatory effect as well. These 
combined drug effects may lead to the protection of the homeostatic regulations 
of the neuro-immuno-endocrine axis of an organism against aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(01)00392-x
PMID: 12044958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Ophthalmology. 2002 Jun;109(6):1137-41. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01054-0.

Changes in ultrasound findings in posterior uveal melanoma after Ruthenium 106 
brachytherapy.

Kaiserman I(1), Anteby I, Chowers I, Blumenthal EZ, Kliers I, Pe'er J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel. 
Igork@cc.huji.ac.il

PURPOSE: To analyze the postbrachytherapy ultrasonographic dynamics of uveal 
melanoma tumor height and internal reflectivity.
DESIGN: Prospective, comparative, observational case series.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred forty-seven patients (147 eyes) with posterior uveal 
melanoma having a mean age of 61 years (range, 29-97 years) who were treated 
with Ruthenium 106 brachytherapy.
METHODS: Patients were followed-up with ultrasonography using both A and B modes 
of standardized echography every 6.7 +/- 0.3 months (mean +/- standard error of 
the mean) for a total of 1001 ultrasound examinations. On average, each patient 
was examined 5.8 times (range, 3-17 times). The echographic parameters included 
tumor base size, height, internal reflectivity, regularity, vascularity, and 
extra-scleral extension. To compare the response of tumors of different sizes, 
each tumor was standardized to its initial size at brachytherapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The dynamics of the tumor height and internal 
reflectivity.
RESULTS: At the time of brachytherapy, the mean height of the tumors was 5.2 mm 
(range, 2.2-11.8 mm). After brachytherapy, 142 tumors (96.6%) responded by a 
decrease in height. The decrease in height was at an initial rate of 
approximately 3% per month. Most of the tumors did not regress entirely; rather, 
their height stabilized on a constant value (on average 61% of the initial 
height) after approximately 18 to 24 months. The decrease in height after 
brachytherapy was best fitted by the sum of a first order exponential decay and 
a constant (h = 61 + 35*e(-0.12t), in which t = time in months). The half-life 
of the decay was 5.8 months. Large tumors (>8 mm) had a faster initial decrease 
in height, and stabilized on a lower percentage of their initial height (50%) 
compared with small tumors (70%). Thus, the half-life of the height exponential 
decay was 5.3 months for small tumors (2-4 mm) and 3.3 months for the large 
tumors (>8 mm). Internal reflectivity increased from a mean of 40% before 
therapy to 70% after 2 years. The dynamics of the reflectivity were best fitted 
with the function: f = 45 + 24(1-e(-0.09t)). Larger tumors, which initially had 
lower internal reflectivity, presented with a slower increase in internal 
reflectivity (t() = 8.7 months) compared with smaller tumors (t(1/2) = 5 
months).
CONCLUSIONS: The postbrachytherapy ultrasonographic dynamics of uveal melanomas 
resemble a function composed of the sum of a constant and a first order 
exponent, suggesting the possible existence of two components (cell 
populations), one unaffected by brachytherapy and the other a radiosensitive 
population that reacts to brachytherapy in an exponential decay. An exponential 
decay can imply that the postbrachytherapy death of each tumor cell is a 
stochastic Markovian process that is independent of the death of other tumor 
cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01054-0
PMID: 12045056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Annu Rev Biochem. 2002;71:17-50. doi:
10.1146/annurev.biochem.71.083101.124707.  Epub 2001 Nov 9.

Error-prone repair DNA polymerases in prokaryotes and eukaryotes.

Goodman MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Chemistry, Hedco Molecular Biology 
Laboratory, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 
90089-1340, USA. mgoodman@mizar.usc.edu

DNA repair is crucial to the well-being of all organisms from unicellular life 
forms to humans. A rich tapestry of mechanistic studies on DNA repair has 
emerged thanks to the recent discovery of Y-family DNA polymerases. Many 
Y-family members carry out aberrant DNA synthesis-poor replication accuracy, the 
favored formation of non-Watson-Crick base pairs, efficient mismatch extension, 
and most importantly, an ability to replicate through DNA damage. This review is 
devoted primarily to a discussion of Y-family polymerase members that exhibit 
error-prone behavior. Roles for these remarkable enzymes occur in widely 
disparate DNA repair pathways, such as UV-induced mutagenesis, adaptive 
mutation, avoidance of skin cancer, and induction of somatic cell hypermutation 
of immunoglobulin genes. Individual polymerases engaged in multiple repair 
pathways pose challenging questions about their roles in targeting and 
trafficking. Macromolecular assemblies of replication-repair "factories" could 
enable a cell to handle the complex logistics governing the rapid migration and 
exchange of polymerases.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.biochem.71.083101.124707
PMID: 12045089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2002 Jun;109(7):2509-18; discussion 2519-20. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-200206000-00052.

Anatomical structure of the buccal fat pad and its clinical adaptations.

Zhang HM(1), Yan YP, Qi KM, Wang JQ, Liu ZF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Science and Peking Union Medical College, Ba-Da-Chu Road, Shi-Jing-Shan 
District, Beijing 100 041, PR China. hexm@cdm.imicams.ac.cn

Before performing plastic and aesthetic surgery around the buccal area, the 
authors reviewed the anatomical structures of the buccal fat pad in 11 head 
specimens (i.e., 22 sides of the face). The enveloping, fixed tissues and the 
source of the nutritional vessels to the buccal fat pad and its relationship 
with surrounding structures were observed in detail, with the dissection 
procedure described step by step. The dissection showed that the buccal fat pad 
can be divided into three lobes-anterior, intermediate, and posterior-according 
to the structure of the lobar envelopes, the formation of the ligaments, and the 
source of the nutritional vessels. The buccal, pterygoid, pterygopalatine, and 
temporal extensions (superficial and profound) are derived from the posterior 
lobe. The buccal fat pad is fixed by six ligaments to the maxilla, posterior 
zygoma, and inner and outer rim of the infraorbital fissure, temporalis tendon, 
or buccinator membrane. Several nutritional vessels exist in each lobe and in 
the subcapsular vascular plexus forms. The buccal fat pads function to fill the 
deep tissue spaces, to act as gliding pads when masticatory and mimetic muscles 
contract, and to cushion important structures from the extrusion of muscle 
contraction or outer force impulsion. The volume of the buccal fat pad may 
change throughout a person's life. Based on the findings of the dissections, the 
authors provide several clinical applications for the buccal fat pad, such as 
the mechanism of deepening the nasolabial fold and possible rhytidectomy to 
suspend the anterior lobe upward and backward. They suggest that relaxation, 
poor development of the ligaments, or rupture of the buccal fat pad capsules can 
make the buccal extension drop or prolapse to the mouth or subcutaneous layer. 
As such, the authors refined their methods and heightened their focus when using 
the buccal fat pad to perform a random or pedicled buccal fat pad fat flap or to 
correct a buccal skin protrusion or hollow.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-200206000-00052
PMID: 12045584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. J Trauma. 2002 Jun;52(6):1056-61; discussion 1061. doi: 
10.1097/00005373-200206000-00006.

Rapid body cooling by cold fluid infusion prolongs survival time during 
uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock in pigs.

Norio H(1), Takasu A, Kawakami M, Saitoh D, Sakamoto T, Okada Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatology and Critical Care Medicine, National Defense 
Medical College, Tokorozawa, Saitama, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine whether cold fluid infusion 
could rapidly decrease the core temperature and prolong survival during 
uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock in pigs.
METHODS: Fourteen pigs under light halothane anesthesia and spontaneous 
breathing underwent initial blood withdrawal of 25 mL/kg over 15 minutes, 
followed by uncontrolled hemorrhage (5-mm aortotomy). Immediately after the 
aortotomy, the pigs were randomized to receive 500 mL lactated Ringer's solution 
at either 4 degrees C (group 1, n = 7) or 37 degrees C (group 2, n = 7) over 20 
minutes through the internal jugular vein and observed until their death or for 
a maximum of 240 minutes.
RESULTS: The pulmonary artery temperature of group 1 decreased to 35.5 degrees 
+/- 0.3 degrees C after the infusion, then remained at 35.5 degrees C during the 
observation period. Pulmonary artery temperature values of group 2 remained at 
around 37.5 degrees C throughout the experiment. The mean survival time was 220 
+/- 45 minutes in group 1 versus 136 +/- 64 minutes in group 2 (p < 0.05, life 
table analysis). The additional intraperitoneal blood loss of group 1 was 
similar to that of group 2 (9 +/- 4 g/kg vs. 10 +/- 5 g/kg).
CONCLUSION: In lightly anesthetized pigs during uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock, 
infusion with 4 degrees C lactated Ringer's solution (which seems to be feasible 
in the clinical setting) decreases the core temperature rapidly and prolongs 
survival.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-200206000-00006
PMID: 12045630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Curr Eye Res. 2001 Dec;23(6):422-34. doi: 10.1076/ceyr.23.6.422.6963.

The spatial distribution of macular pigment in humans.

Chen SF(1), Chang Y, Wu JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
Taiwan R.O.C.

PURPOSE: To estimate the distributions in width as well as in density of macular 
pigment (MP) in humans at different ages, imaging fundus reflectometry was 
employed as a tool to reach our aim.
METHODS: Imaging fundus reflectometry was used to measure the macular pigment 
distribution in human eyes with a modified fundus camera to which a cooled CCD 
camera was attached. The fundus images were taken at 460 nm and 560 nm after the 
retina was light-adapted to completely bleach rhodopsin. The density of macular 
pigment was estimated using a model described in the text. The variation in 
density with retinal eccentricity was fit to Gaussian distribution. The width of 
MP in retinal eccentricity was estimated by 95% covering area of the 
distribution profile. A total of 54 normal people served as subjects. They were 
divided into three groups with ages of 24.8 +/- 2.6 years (N = 24), 40.2 +/- 8.3 
years (N = 13) and 67.5 +/- 7.1 years (N = 17) respectively. Statistical t-tests 
were employed to evaluate the differences in MP density, the half width of MP 
distributed (HWMPD) in retina with respect to age between the groups. Linear 
regression was also applied to reveal the relationships of HWMPD distribution 
with respect to age.
RESULTS: The results indicate that the average MP densities are 0.23 +/- 0.08, 
0.22 +/- 0.06 and 0.23 +/- 0.06 density unit (DU) for the young to old age 
groups. The average MP density is 0.23 +/- 0.07. No statistical significant 
difference is found in the peak MP density between the groups (all p > 0.05). 
This result pretty agrees with the data that obtained from others by using 
optical methods. For the young to old age groups, the average estimated HWMPD 
are 2.6 degrees +/- 0.5 degrees, 3.1 degrees +/- 0.5 degrees and 4.1 degrees +/- 
0.6 degrees respectively. The differences between loci of HWMPD in the three 
groups are statistically significant with p = 0.0059, p < 0.0001 and p = 0.0001 
for young vs. mid-age, young vs. old and mid-age vs. old respectively. Linear 
regressions for the HWMPD vs. age (r = 0.734, p < 0.001) implies that the 
macular pigment can gradually accumulate and spread out to the periphery of 
retina through our life span with an increase rate of approximately 0.03 degrees 
/year.
CONCLUSIONS: The accumulation of MP is reflected by the broader area in the 
macula lutea due to age, but no significant change is observed in peak density. 
The cause of the extension in the macular area with respect to age is unknown.

DOI: 10.1076/ceyr.23.6.422.6963
PMID: 12045892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Orbit. 2000 Mar;19(1):51-55.

Metastatic malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma - a case report and review of 
the literature.

Sreekanth K(1), Kannan RR, Majhi U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Cancer Institute (W.I.A.), Chennai, India

Medulloepitheliomas are rare congenital tumours arising from the epithelium 
lining the medullary tube. They are usually detected in the first decade of 
life. They may be teratoid or non-teratoid. Regional and distant metastases are 
rare. Extraocular extension of disease appears to be the most important 
prognostic feature. Surgical resection is the usual mode of treatment. The role 
of other adjuvant modalities is as yet unclear.

PMID: 12045966


823. Biomed Environ Sci. 2002 Mar;15(1):8-15.

Methodology for the assessment of burden of smear-positive pulmonary TB and its 
infectivity.

Xu Q(1), Wu ZL, Liu XL, Jin SG, Zhang LX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical 
College, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sicences, Beijing 100005, China.

OBJECTIVE: The study investigated the burden of smear-positive pulmonary TB and 
its infectivity using DALY (disability-adjusted life year) as an indicator.
METHODS: An assumed cohort of 2,000 cases was set up based on the age-specific 
incidence of 794 newly registered smear-positive cases in Beijing in 1994. 
Prognostic trees and model diagrams of infectivity under natural history and 
DOTS(directly observed treatment, short-course) strategy were established 
according to the epidemiological evidence.
RESULTS: The results showed that 29.6% of DALYs would be neglected if the burden 
caused by the infectivity was not considered.
CONCLUSION: DOTS strategy may reduce 97.3% of the number of potential cases 
infected, 92.9% of DALYs related to TB-patients themselves, and 99.9% of DALYs 
caused by TB's infectivity as well.

PMID: 12046552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Palliat Med. 2002 May;16(3):213-8. doi: 10.1191/0269216302pm509oa.

The development of clinical guidelines on paracentesis for ascites related to 
malignancy.

Stephenson J(1), Gilbert J.

Author information:
(1)Derriford Hospital and St Luke's Hospice, Plymouth, UK.

Comment in
    Palliat Med. 2003 Jun;17(4):378; author reply 379.
    Palliat Med. 2003 Jun;17(4):379; author reply 380.

Malignancy-related ascites gives rise to troublesome symptoms and carries a poor 
prognosis. Abdominal paracentesis is a widely used and effective procedure for 
symptom relief, but practice with regard to the procedure itself may vary 
considerably. Evidence obtained in the context of liver disease probably 
influences practice in malignancy, although the pathophysiology involved is 
different. Anecdotal evidence suggested a difference in practice between the 
Exeter and District Hospice and the adjoining hospital, and this was confirmed 
by a review of case notes. Patients undergoing paracentesis in the hospital were 
more likely to have prior ultrasound assessment and to be given intravenous 
fluids, and had longer drainage times and longer inpatient stays. It seemed that 
some practices were placing unnecessary burdens on patients whose life 
