expectancy was short. A set of clinical guidelines for the procedure was drawn 
up, based on the limited evidence available and the practice within the hospice. 
These guidelines emphasise performing ultrasound investigations only in cases of 
diagnostic uncertainty, allowing up to 5 L of fluid to drain without clamping, 
leaving drains in for no more than 6 h and giving intravenous fluids only when 
specifically indicated. These guidelines were introduced on the oncology ward of 
the adjoining hospital. The impact on practice was assessed by means of a 
retrospective case note review of all procedures carried out on the ward in the 
6 months before and after the guidelines were introduced. The introduction of 
guidelines resulted in significant reductions in prior ultrasound assessment, 
mean length of time drains were left in and mean length of inpatient stay for 
planned procedures. There were no cases of symptomatic hypotension in the 
postguidelines group.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216302pm509oa
PMID: 12046997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Palliat Med. 2002 May;16(3):219-25. doi: 10.1191/0269216302pm533oa.

Evaluation of the effectiveness of UK community pharmacists' interventions in 
community palliative care.

Needham DS(1), Wong IC, Campion PD; Hull and East Riding Pharmacy Developmnet 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Yorkshire Wolds and Coast Primary Care Trust, Westwood Hospital, Beverley, 
UK.

INTRODUCTION: In 1997, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain Working 
Party reported that UK community pharmacists had a crucial role in effective 
medicines management and effective symptom control for those receiving 
palliative care in the community. However, prior to the integration of community 
pharmacists into the community palliative team, it is necessary to evaluate the 
effectiveness of their pharmaceutical interventions.
AIM: To assess the effectiveness of community pharmacists' clinical 
interventions in supporting palliative care patients in primary care using an 
independent multidisciplinary panel review.
METHODS: Patients with a life expectancy of less than 12 months were each 
registered with a single pharmacy and their consent was obtained for the 
community pharmacists to access their general practitioner (GP) case records. 
The community pharmacists received training in palliative pharmaceutical care 
and documenting interventions. The trained community pharmacists provided 
palliative pharmaceutical care to the recruited patients. At the end of a 
10-month period, the clinical interventions were reviewed by an independent 
multidisciplinary expert panel consisting of a palliative care consultant, a 
Macmillan nurse (community palliative care nurse) and a hospital pharmacist with 
special interest in palliative care.
RESULTS: Fourteen community palliative care teams (including community 
pharmacists, GPs and community nurses) took part in the study and 25 patients 
were recruited over the 10-month recording period. All but one patient had a 
diagnosis of cancer; the other patient had chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. By the end of the project, 14 patients had died. Community pharmacists 
recorded a total of 130 clinical interventions. Thirty interventions were 
excluded as insufficient information had been documented to allow review by the 
panel. Eighty-one per cent of the interventions were judged by the expert panel 
likely to be beneficial. However, 3% were judged likely to be detrimental to the 
patients' well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the clinical interventions made by the community 
pharmacists for palliative pharmaceutical care were judged by the expert panel 
as being likely to be beneficial. The result supports the view that when 
community pharmacists are appropriately trained and included as integrated 
members of the team, they can intervene effectively to improve pharmaceutical 
care for palliative care patients.

DOI: 10.1191/0269216302pm533oa
PMID: 12046998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Natl Med J India. 2002;15 Suppl 1:19-25.

Deficit of women in India: magnitude, trends, regional variations and 
determinants.

Visaria L(1).

Author information:
(1)visaria@vsnl.com

PMID: 12047128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Natl Med J India. 2002;15 Suppl 1:3-5.

Demographic trends: the last 50 years.

Karkal M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Mortality Studies, International Institute 
for Population Sciences, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

PMID: 12047130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Natl Med J India. 2002;15 Suppl 1:32-6.

Avoidable mortality in India: past progress and future prospects.

Jha P(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. pjha@worldbank.org

PMID: 12047131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Aust J Rural Health. 2002 Apr;10(2):129-35. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1584.2002.00458.x.

Current health scenario in rural India.

Patil AV(1), Somasundaram KV, Goyal RC.

Author information:
(1)International Association of Agricultural Medicine and Rural Health, Rural 
Medical College of Pravara Medical Trust, Maharashtra, India. 
pravara@bom3.vsnl.net.in

India is the second most populous country of the world and has changing 
socio-political-demographic and morbidity patterns that have been drawing global 
attention in recent years. Despite several growth-orientated policies adopted by 
the government, the widening economic, regional and gender disparities are 
posing challenges for the health sector. About 75% of health infrastructure, 
medical man power and other health resources are concentrated in urban areas 
where 27% of the population live. Contagious, infectious and waterborne diseases 
such as diarrhoea, amoebiasis, typhoid, infectious hepatitis, worm infestations, 
measles, malaria, tuberculosis, whooping cough, respiratory infections, 
pneumonia and reproductive tract infections dominate the morbidity pattern, 
especially in rural areas. However, non-communicable diseases such as cancer, 
blindness, mental illness, hypertension, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, accidents and 
injuries are also on the rise. The health status of Indians, is still a cause 
for grave concern, especially that of the rural population. This is reflected in 
the life expectancy (63 years), infant mortality rate (80/1000 live births), 
maternal mortality rate (438/100 000 live births); however, over a period of 
time some progress has been made. To improve the prevailing situation, the 
problem of rural health is to be addressed both at macro (national and state) 
and micro (district and regional) levels. This is to be done in an holistic way, 
with a genuine effort to bring the poorest of the population to the centre of 
the fiscal policies. A paradigm shift from the current 'biomedical model' to a 
'sociocultural model', which should bridge the gaps and improve quality of rural 
life, is the current need. A revised National Health Policy addressing the 
prevailing inequalities, and working towards promoting a long-term perspective 
plan, mainly for rural health, is imperative.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1584.2002.00458.x
PMID: 12047509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Trends Genet. 2002 May;18(5):245-8. doi: 10.1016/s0168-9525(02)02647-1.

Recent emergence of the modern genetic code: a proposal.

Syvanen M(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Microbiology and Immunology, 3146 Tupper Hall, School of Medicine, 
University of California, Davis, CA 95616-8645, USA. msyvanen@ucdavis.edu

Erratum in
    Trends Genet 2002 Jul;18(7):379.

This article proposes that the genetic code was not fully formed before the 
divergence of life into three kingdoms. Rather, at least arginine and tryptophan 
evolved after the diversification of archaea, bacteria and eukaryotes, and were 
spread by horizontal gene transfer. Evidence for this hypothesis is based on 
data suggesting that enzymes for biosynthesis of arginine and tryptophan, and 
for arginine tRNA ligase, have shorter divergence times than the underlying 
lineages. Also, many of these genes display "star" phylogenies. This proposal is 
an extension of the idea that the genetic code was unified because of the 
evolutionary pressure from horizontal gene transfer. These considerations 
further undermine the need to postulate the existence of a "last common 
ancestor"; a simpler model would be that multiple lineages gave rise to life 
today.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-9525(02)02647-1
PMID: 12047948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Med Health R I. 2002 May;85(5):149-52.

Older men in Rhode Island, 1995-2025: population, life expectancy, and men's 
health issues.

Fulton JP(1), Marable S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Disease Prevention and Control, Rhode Island Department of 
Health, Three Capitol Hill, Providence, RI 02908-5097, USA. 
johnf@doh.state.ri.us

PMID: 12048747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Lancet. 2002 May 18;359(9319):1713-4. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)08663-4.

The UK blood transfusion service: over a (patent) barrel?

Simmonds P(1), Kurtz J, Tedder RS.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Clinical and Molecular Biology, University of Edinburgh, 
Summerhall, Edinburgh EH9 1QH, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Nov 9;360(9344):1518-9; author reply 1519-20.
    Lancet. 2002 Nov 9;360(9344):1519.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)08663-4
PMID: 12049856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Lancet. 2002 May 18;359(9319):1758. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08672-5.

Brundtland sets out priorities at annual World Health Assembly.

Kapp C.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08672-5
PMID: 12049876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Lancet. 2002 May 18;359(9319):1771-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08664-6.

Choosing the method to match the perspective: economic assessment and its 
implications for health-services efficiency.

Oliver A(1), Healey A, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
London WC2A 2AE, UK. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08664-6
PMID: 12049884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2002 Jun;13(6):581-9. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61651-0.

New ePTFE/FEP-covered stent in the palliative treatment of malignant biliary 
obstruction.

Bezzi M(1), Zolovkins A, Cantisani V, Salvatori FM, Rossi M, Fanelli F, Rossi P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Third Chair, University of Rome "La Sapienza," 
Policlinico Umberto I, Via Intieri 10, I-00191 Rome, Italy. 
mario.bezzi@uniroma1.it

PURPOSE: To determine the technical efficacy and safety of an expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene and fluorinated ethylene propylene (ePTFE/FEP)-covered 
metallic stent in the management of malignant biliary obstruction and to 
evaluate its clinical efficacy by estimating stent patency and patient survival 
rates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-six patients with common bile duct stricture 
caused by malignant disease were treated by placement of 29 stents. The stent 
consists of an inner ePTFE/FEP lining and an outer supporting structure of 
nitinol wire. Multiple wire sections elevated from the external surface provide 
anchoring. Stents are available in two versions, with or without holes in the 
proximal stent lining. Holes should provide drainage of the cystic duct or 
biliary side branches when covered by the proximal stent end. Clinical 
evaluation and assessment of serum bilirubin and liver enzyme levels were done 
before stent placement and at 1, 3, 6, and 9 months. Average follow-up duration 
was 5.4 months (range, 5 d to 12.5 mo).
RESULTS: Placement was successful in all cases. The 30-day mortality rate was 
11.5%. The survival rates were 40% and 15% at 6 and 12 months, respectively. 
Eighty-four percent of patients had adequate palliative drainage during their 
lifetime. The stent patency rates were 91%, 77%, and 77% at 3, 6, and 12 months, 
respectively. Four patients (16%) presented with stent occlusion and needed 
repeat intervention. No migration occurred. Complications other than stent 
occlusion occurred in five patients (19%); among these, acute cholecystitis was 
observed in three patients (12%).
CONCLUSION: Preliminary results suggest that placement of this ePTFE/FEP-covered 
stent is feasible and effective in achieving biliary drainage. The percentage of 
patients undergoing lifetime palliation and the midterm patency are promising. 
However, the incidence of acute cholecystitis is high. Treatment of a larger 
group of patients is mandatory to validate these long-term results.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(07)61651-0
PMID: 12050298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1800-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200206063462309.

Cost effectiveness of aspirin, clopidogrel, or both for secondary prevention of 
coronary heart disease.

Gaspoz JM(1), Coxson PG, Goldman PA, Williams LW, Kuntz KM, Hunink MG, Goldman 
L.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Médecine II and the Division of Cardiology, Hôpitaux 
Universitaires, Geneva, Switzerland. jean-michel.gaspoz@hcuge.ch

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1819-21.
    J Fam Pract. 2002 Sep;51(9):789.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.

BACKGROUND: Both aspirin and clopidogrel reduce the rate of cardiovascular 
events in patients with coronary heart disease. We estimated the cost 
effectiveness of the increased use of aspirin, clopidogrel, or both for 
secondary prevention in patients with coronary heart disease.
METHODS: We used the Coronary Heart Disease Policy Model, a computer simulation 
of the U.S. population, to estimate the incremental cost effectiveness (in 
dollars per quality-adjusted years of life gained) of four strategies in 
patients over 35 years of age with coronary disease from 2003 to 2027: aspirin 
for all eligible patients (i.e., those who were not allergic to or intolerant of 
aspirin), aspirin for all eligible patients plus clopidogrel for patients who 
were ineligible for aspirin, clopidogrel for all patients, and the combination 
of aspirin for all eligible patients plus clopidogrel for all patients.
RESULTS: The extension of aspirin therapy from the current levels of use to all 
eligible patients for 25 years would have an estimated cost-effectiveness ratio 
of about $11,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. The addition of 
clopidogrel for the 5 percent of patients who are ineligible for aspirin would 
cost about $31,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. Clopidogrel alone 
in all patients or in routine combination with aspirin had an incremental cost 
of more than $130,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained and remained 
financially unattractive across a wide range of assumptions. However, 
clopidogrel alone or in combination with aspirin would cost less than $50,000 
per quality-adjusted year of life gained if its price were reduced by 70 to 82 
percent, to $1.00 and $0.60 per day, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased prescription of aspirin for secondary prevention of 
coronary heart disease is attractive from a cost-effectiveness perspective. 
Because clopidogrel is more costly, its incremental cost effectiveness is 
currently unattractive, unless its use is restricted to patients who are 
ineligible for aspirin.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200206063462309
PMID: 12050341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1819-21. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200206063462313.

When increased therapeutic benefit comes at increased cost.

Wood AJ.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1800-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200206063462313
PMID: 12050345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2002 Jan-Mar;42(1):37-73.

[Transitional health system and health status in Hungary].

[Article in French]

Schultz J(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Montpellier 3-Paul Valéry.

The road towards political freedom has been painful to the Hungarian population. 
After 1989, the per capita GDP has sharply decreased, and the 1989 level has 
been reached again only a decade later. During the period, a great number of 
reforms have been launched in the health field: privatisation, adoption of a 
Bismarckian-like model, decentralization, performance-search measures... One 
cannot say however that these reforms have been successful. Low priority for 
health, vastage of the scarce resources allocated to the health care system, 
conflicts for power between the groups and institutions ... have seriously 
weakened the performance of all the system. Simultaneously, the financial burden 
charged to the patients has increased and the unhealthy lifestyle of the 
population has not decreased. In its 2000 Report on the world health, WHO has 
noted that Hungary is ranked 36th for per capita GDP, 59th for per capita health 
expenditures but 105th for the performance of its health care system.

PMID: 12050939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Birth. 2002 Jun;29(2):101-11. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-536x.2002.00170.x.

Experiences of fears associated with pregnancy and childbirth: a study of 329 
pregnant women.

Melender HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Extension Studies, University of Turku, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Women may experience a variety of fears in association with 
pregnancy and childbirth. The purpose of this study was to describe their 
objects, causes, and manifestations, and to identify factors associated with the 
fears.
METHODS: The study sample comprised 481 pregnant women in western Finland, of 
whom 329 (response rate 69) completed a questionnaire. It was developed on the 
basis of semi-structured interviews and previous studies and had a 4-point scale 
and a dichotomous scale. Data were subjected to rotated factor analysis, and sum 
variables were produced. The effects of various demographic variables were 
calculated using the Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests.
RESULTS: Of the 329 respondents, 78 percent expressed fears relating to 
pregnancy, to childbirth, or to both. Specific fears concerned childbirth, the 
child's and mother's well-being, health care staff, family life, and cesarean 
section. Causes of fears were negative mood, negative stories told by others, 
alarming information, diseases and child-related problems, and, in multiparas, 
negative experiences of previous pregnancy, childbirth, and baby's health and 
care; causes were significantly related to occupation. Fears were manifested as 
symptoms of stress, effects on everyday life, and a wish to have a cesarean 
section or to avoid pregnancy and childbirth; employment situation and elective 
cesarean section were the most important factors related to manifestation of 
fears. Parity and antenatal training were the most important variables related 
to objects of fears.
CONCLUSIONS: Women's fears that are associated with pregnancy and childbirth can 
be explained by different factors. It is important for perinatal health 
caregivers to ask pregnant women about their feelings related to the current 
pregnancy, childbirth, and future motherhood, and to give women who express 
fears an opportunity to discuss them, paying special attention to primiparas and 
to multiparas with negative experiences of earlier pregnancies.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-536x.2002.00170.x
PMID: 12051188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(6):367-87. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220060-00002.

Cost effectiveness of treatments for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a review of 
the literature.

Ginsberg G(1), Lowe S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology Assessment, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(6):389-91.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a difficult to diagnose, fatal, 
progressive degenerative disease with an average survival time of 2 to 5 years. 
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrotomy (PEG) and bi-level intermittent positive 
pressure (BIPAP) ventilation may be the major interventions leading to longer 
survival of patients with ALS. Riluzole has been shown to have modest effects on 
survival (as opposed to functional) gains and is currently the only drug 
approved for the treatment of ALS. There is conflicting evidence with regard to 
the ability of recombinant human insulin-like growth factor (rhIGF-I) to retard 
ALS progression. Mechanical ventilation (via a tracheostomy tube) is expensive, 
but is widely used in later stage patients with ALS in the US. A review of nine 
cost-effectiveness studies of riluzole and one of rhIGF-I found the following: 
drug costs and survival gains are the major drivers of cost effectiveness; 
survival gains are estimated from truncated databases with a high degree of 
uncertainty; more accurate stage-specific utility weights based on patients who 
agreed to treatment are needed; case incidence-based evaluations should be 
carried out; cost-effectiveness ratios are insensitive to discount rates; 
employment and caregiver issues or externalities have been widely ignored; 
threshold acceptance cost-effectiveness values are ill-defined and evaluations 
are not generalisable to other countries because of cost and treatment style 
differences. On account of the high degree of uncertainty pertaining to survival 
gains and the relatively high costs per life years or quality-adjusted 
life-years gained, and while acknowledging that not every therapy has to be cost 
effective (e.g. orphan drugs), it is still inconclusive as to whether or not 
riluzole or rhIGF-1 can be considered as cost-effective therapies for ALS.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220060-00002
PMID: 12052096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(6):389-91. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220060-00003.

A fair innings for NICE?

Freemantle N(1), Bloor K, Eastaugh J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and General Practice, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, United Kingdom. N.Freemantle@bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(9):681.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(6):367-87.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220060-00003
PMID: 12052097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2001 Dec;2(4):340-9. doi: 10.1053/prrv.2001.0170.

Liver disease in children with cystic fibrosis.

Diwakar V(1), Pearson L, Beath S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Cystic Fibrosis, Birmingham Children's 
Hospital NHS Trust, Birmingham, UK. diwakar@doctors.org.uk

Identification, evaluation and treatment of liver disease are increasingly 
important challenges in children with cystic fibrosis (CF). Liver disease 
usually presents at puberty and is receiving more attention with improved life 
expectancy. The abnormal CF transmembrane regulator protein in the apical 
surface of the biliary epithelium causes the disease. Hyperviscous bile 
accumulates in the biliary tree causing cholangiocyte and hepatocyte injury, 
stimulating focal fibrosis. Fibrosis is thought to lead on to cirrhosis over a 
period of years, a process which is usually asymptomatic. Steatosis and biliary 
tree anomalies including cholecystitis also occur. Clinical signs of liver 
disease appear late, by which time cirrhosis may be established. Early diagnosis 
would allow interventions to be evaluated but there is no gold standard for 
screening. Currently, regular clinical assessment, measurement of liver enzymes, 
ultrasound and liver biopsy are all used to evaluate liver disease in CF. Bile 
acid therapy reverses many markers of the disease but there is no good evidence 
that progression to cirrhosis can be prevented. A few children with cirrhosis 
decompensate (demonstrated by falling plasma albumin or coagulopathy) but they 
do well with liver transplantation. Children with portal hypertension as the 
sole manifestation of CF liver disease can be effectively managed with a 
programme of variceal obliteration or porto-systemic shunts.

DOI: 10.1053/prrv.2001.0170
PMID: 12052306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Atherosclerosis. 2002 Aug;163(2):349-54. doi: 10.1016/s0021-9150(02)00016-3.

Pilot study of coronary atherosclerotic risk and plaque burden in HIV patients: 
'a call for cardiovascular prevention'.

Acevedo M(1), Sprecher DL, Calabrese L, Pearce GL, Coyner DL, Halliburton SS, 
White RD, Sykora E, Kondos GT, Hoff JA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Preventive Cardiology and Rehabilitation, Department of 
Cardiology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

BACKGROUND: Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically 
improved the life expectancy of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
prompting increasing concerns related to chronic management. Suggestions of 
greater cardiovascular risk, partially related to recently proposed 
HAART-induced dyslipidemia and glucose intolerance, amplify these concerns. At 
this time, further corroboration of the emerging evidence for increased coronary 
risk, as well as complimentary estimates of coronary artery atherosclerotic 
burden, would be valuable to practicing physicians.
METHODS: Seventeen HIV patients on HAART (all from the same HIV clinic 
population) without coronary artery disease (CAD) were referred to Preventive 
Cardiology for treatment of dyslipidemia ('referred group'). Upon entry, they 
underwent computed tomography (CT) of the coronary arteries. Subsequently, the 
referred group was matched (1:4) for age, gender and traditional risk to non-HIV 
non-CAD subjects (matched group, n=68) from the University of Illinois CT 
database. A serial review of 90 subjects from the original HIV population was 
sampled to determine general cardiovascular risk.
RESULTS: Thirteen (76%) of the 17 referred patients revealed the presence of 
coronary calcium compared with 63% in the matched HIV seronegative controls 
(P=0.18). Log-transformed median calcium score was 2.93+/-2.3 in the referred 
group versus 1.97+/-2.5 in the matched group (P=0.09). Fifty one percent of the 
overall population smoked cigarettes, 11% were diabetic (30% diagnosed pre-HAART 
and 70% post-HAART) and 30% were hypertensive (33% diagnosed pre-HAART and 67% 
post-HAART).
CONCLUSIONS: In a particularly dyslipidemic subgroup of HIV subjects without 
known CAD we found evidence for atherosclerosis in three-quarters based on 
coronary calcium. Further, in this population of HIV patients on HAART, we found 
an enhanced prevalence of traditional cardiovascular risk. This pilot study 
encourages the development of preventive strategies in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9150(02)00016-3
PMID: 12052482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Acta Haematol. 2002;107(4):203-7. doi: 10.1159/000058315.

Outcome of treatment in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia in southern Brazil 
using a modified german multicenter acute lymphoblastic leukemia protocol.

Fogliatto L(1), Bittencourt H, Nunes AS, Salenave PR, Silva GS, Daudt LE, Job 
FM, Bittencourt R, Onsten T, Silla LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital de Clínicas, School of Medicine, 
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

Reports on treatment outcomes in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
in Brazil are sparse. To evaluate the outcome of patients with ALL managed by 
the public healthcare system, we studied 42 adults treated from 1990 to 1997 in 
the Division of Hematology at Hospital de Clínicas, Porto Alegre, Brazil. Of 
these patients, 14/42 were females and their median age at diagnosis was 26 
(17-64) years. The diagnosis of ALL was based on cytological examination of 
marrow smears, and immunophenotypic and cytogenetic studies, when available. 
Fifty percent of the patients expressed CD10, 30% were CD10 negative and CD19 
positive and 20% expressed T markers. Philadelphia chromosome was found in 4 
(7.14%). The chemotherapy protocol was adapted from the German Multicenter ALL 
(GMALL) 02-84 protocol. The complete remission rate was 93% and the overall 
survival at 5 years was 41%. No particular risk factor was identified in our 
series. These results are comparable to the findings of other international 
studies.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000058315
PMID: 12053147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Cesk Fysiol. 2002 May;51(2):82-94.

[beta-Amyloid, cholinergic neurons and Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Czech]

Kasparová J(1), Dolezal V.

Author information:
(1)Fyziologický ústav AV CR, Praha.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disorder in men and its 
incidence increases with the prolongation of life expectancy. The late phase of 
the disease is accompanied by a failure of cognitive and mental functions. Post 
mortem examination of the brain reveals the presence of neuritic plaques and 
neurofibrillary tangles, particularly in the cortex and hippocampus, and a 
reduction of the number of cerebrocortical neurons. Biochemical changes include 
the affliction of various neurotransmitter systems with the obligatory damage of 
the basal forebrain cholinergic system. Understanding of the pathogeny of 
Alzheimer's disease and, consequently, of ways to its therapy is still quite 
limited, in spite of enormous effort by investigators. Advanced molecular 
biological and genetical approaches indicate that the primary cause of 
Alzheimer's disease is the accumulation and toxic action of beta-amyloid 
peptide, which is formed as a less common breakdown product of the amyloid 
precursor protein. In this review we briefly outline some recent ideas 
concerning the origin and progression of the disease, with the main focus on the 
metabolism of beta-amyloid and on possible mechanisms of its deleterious 
influence on the neuronal, particularly cholinergic cells. Two basic cytotoxic 
effects of beta-amyloid on neurons appear to be the disturbance of the 
homeostasis of intracellular calcium ions and the induction of oxidative stress, 
and they together bring about necrotic or apoptotic cell death. However, it has 
been found in experiments that the damage of cholinergic neurons and cholinergic 
neurotransmission can be induced by beta-amyloid at such low concentrations 
which do not yet evoke general cytotoxic effects. Weakening of cholinergic 
neurotransmission is known to result in an increase in the production of 
beta-amyloid, and the damage of cholinergic neurons thus seems to initiate a 
vicious circle which speeds up the progression of the disease.

PMID: 12053492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Interv Cardiol. 2001 Oct;14(5):529-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8183.2001.tb00368.x.

Clinical evaluation and options for infrainguinal atherosclerosis therapy: when 
to intervene?

Jaff MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Heart and Vascular Institute, 111 Madison Avenue, Fourth Floor, Morristown, 
NJ 07960, USA. mrjaff@pol.net

Cardiologists have gained considerable experience and expertise in the diagnosis 
and management of coronary artery disease. Interventional therapy has now become 
a standard cornerstone of therapy for coronary artery disease, and endoluminal 
stents are being used in over 70% of all coronary interventions. Diagnosis and 
treatment of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) has recently gained momentum. In 
the past, vascular surgeons and interventional radiologists were the classic 
caregivers for PAD patients, with an interest in deciding between intervention 
or no intervention. In addition, the majority of PAD patients had few medical 
resources since many medical specialists did not view PAD as important for many 
reasons, such as: (1) few effective options for the management of patients with 
PAD, (2) PAD did not represent a significant health hazard to patients, (3) few 
patients actually suffered from PAD, and (4) patients did not view PAD as a 
significant limitation in their quality of life. Over the past decade, a new 
medical specialty, vascular medicine, had dedicated itself to the comprehensive 
management of these complex patients. Vascular medicine specialists are 
predominantly internists and cardiologists. These physicians not only view PAD 
as an important medical issue, they understand the increasing prevalence of PAD 
among the "baby-boomer" generation, the shortened life-expectancy of patients 
with PAD, and the marked reduction in the quality of life among PAD patients. 
Most importantly, vascular medicine physicians are now aware of several 
effective options for patients with PAD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2001.tb00368.x
PMID: 12053644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Salud Publica Mex. 2002 Mar-Apr;44(2):153-7. doi: 
10.1590/s0036-36342002000200011.

Clinicians and the economic evaluation of health.

Merino JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Florida Health Sciences 
Center-Jacksonville, 580 West Eight Street, Plaza I, 9th floor, Jacksonville, FL 
32209-6511, USA. jose.merino@jax.ufl.edu

Papers dealing with the economic evaluation of health care have proliferated in 
the clinical literature. They provide an evidence-based element to help policy 
makers allocate resources among competing projects. These studies are generally 
done from a the perspective of a health provider (public or practice) or a 
public health professional, they do not take into account the special nature of 
the patient-physician relationship. The value of these studies for a clinician 
caring for an individual patient is questioned because the perspective used and 
the values measured represent those of society or a health provider, not those 
of patients. In addition, since cost-effectiveness analysis fails to take into 
account important societal ethical beliefs that are relevant to the care of 
individuals, its application to individual care is limited. Physicians should 
use these analyses when working as private or public policy makers, not as 
clinicians. The English version of this paper is available too at: 
http://www.insp.mx/salud/index.html.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-36342002000200011
PMID: 12053782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Jun;31(3):533-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/31.3.533.

Income and inequality as determinants of mortality: an international 
cross-section analysis. 1979.

Rodgers GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Wing, Population and Labour Policies Branch, International Labour 
Organisation.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/31.3.533
PMID: 12055146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Aviat Space Environ Med. 2002 Jun;73(6):587-92.

Aircraft accidents and other causes of death among Norwegian commercial pilots.

Haldorsen T(1), Reitan JB, Tveten U.

Author information:
(1)The Cancer Registry of Norway, Oslo. tor.haldorsen@kreftregisteret.no

BACKGROUND: When entering the profession, pilots need to be in better health 
than the general population. During their careers they are under close medical 
supervision, which could influence their life-long mortality.
METHODS: The cohort was established from the files of the Norwegian Civil 
Aviation Administration and included people who had valid licenses as commercial 
pilots between 1946 and 1994. Basic data about their flight careers were 
recorded. The cohort was linked to the Cause of Death Registry. The observed 
number of deaths was compared with those expected, based on national rates.
RESULTS: A group of 3707 male pilots was followed over 70,832 person-years. 
There were 342 deaths vs. 362.8 expected, with a standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR) of 0.94, and a 95% confidence interval (95% CI) of 0.85-1.05. Aircraft 
accidents with 97 deaths had a major influence on total mortality and the SMR 
for all other causes was 0.68 (95% CI 0.59-0.77). The SMR for cancer was 0.89 
(95% CI 0.71-1.11) and for circulatory diseases 0.53 (95% CI 0.42-0.67). The 
highest SMR for total mortality in pilots < 30 yr old was 3.52 (95% CI 
2.54-4.76). For this age group 38 of a total of 42 deaths were caused by 
aircraft accidents. It was indicated that almost half the deaths of aircraft 
accidents took place in private aircraft.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to aircraft accidents young pilots have a higher mortality rate 
than the general population; other harmful effects on the mortality of pilots in 
their workplace were not found. At all ages pilots have a better life expectancy 
than the general population.

PMID: 12056676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2002 Feb;3(1):33-40. doi:
10.1007/s11864-002-0039-7.

Cervical lymph node metastases from occult squamous cell carcinoma.

Nieder C(1), Ang KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, TU Munich, 
Ismaninger Str. 22, 81675 Munich, Germany. cnied@hotmail.com

Depending on patient and tumor characteristics, reported 5-year actuarial 
survival rates of patients with cervical nodal metastasis from an unknown 
primary carcinoma range from 18% to 63%. Prognostic factors for survival include 
N-stage, number of nodes, grading, extracapsular extension, and performance 
status. Retrospective studies suggest that neck relapse is more common than are 
distant metastases or emergence of mucosal primary tumors. The treatment options 
include neck dissection alone, radiation alone to the neck with or without the 
putative mucosal origin, and combination unilateral neck dissection plus limited 
or comprehensive radiotherapy. Combination of nodal dissection with 
comprehensive bilateral radiotherapy yielded most favorable results in 
local-regional disease control. However, its impact on the quality of life 
should be recognized. Also, the confounding effects of patient selection for 
various treatment modalities on therapeutic outcome cannot be quantified. 
Retrospective single-institution comparisons between comprehensive and 
unilateral neck radiotherapy did not show apparent differences in outcome. A 
randomized trial to compare the therapeutic value of comprehensive versus 
volume-limited radiotherapy is being planned. No data were found to support the 
benefit of chemotherapy for the treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-002-0039-7
PMID: 12057085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Am J Pathol. 2002 Jun;160(6):2259-65. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)61173-X.

Life span extension by reduction in growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor-1 
axis in a transgenic rat model.

Shimokawa I(1), Higami Y, Utsuyama M, Tuchiya T, Komatsu T, Chiba T, Yamaza H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Digestive Medicine, Division of Experimental 
Medicine, Pathology, and Gerontology, Nagasaki University School of Medicine, 
Nagasaki City, Japan. shimo@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

The longer life span in dwarf mice suggests that a reduction in the growth 
hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 axis retards aging and extends 
the life span in mammals. We tested this hypothesis in a transgenic strain of 
rats whose GH gene was suppressed by an anti-sense GH transgene. Male rats 
homozygous for the transgene (tg/tg) had a reduced number of pituitary GH cells, 
a lower plasma concentration of IGF-1, and a dwarf phenotype. Heterozygous rats 
(tg/-) had an intermediate phenotype in plasma IGF-1, food intake, and body 
weight between tg/tg and control (-/-) rats. The life span of tg/tg rats was 5 
to 10% shorter than -/- rats. In contrast, the life span of tg/- rats was 7 to 
10% longer than -/- rats. Pathological analysis suggested that neoplasms caused 
earlier death in tg/tg rats; in contrast, tg/- rats had reduced nonneoplastic 
diseases and a prolonged life span. Immunological analysis revealed a smaller 
population and lower activity of splenic natural killer cells in tg/tg rats. The 
results of the present study support the hypothesis, but suggest that there is 
an optimal level of the GH-IGF-1 axis to maximize survival in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)61173-X
PMCID: PMC1850833
PMID: 12057928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Neurochirurgie. 2002 May;48(2-3 Pt 2):285-93.

[Unsuccessful surgery of Cushing's disease. Role and efficacy of fractionated 
stereotactic radiotherapy].

[Article in French]

Colin P(1), Delemer B, Nakib I, Caron J, Bazin A, Bernard MH, Peruzzi P, 
Scavarda D, Scherpereel B, Longuebray A, Redon C, Petel F, Rousseaux P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie, CHU, Reims, France. colin.courlancy@wanadoo.fr

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To optimize and reduce the toxicity of pituitary adenoma 
irradiation, we evaluated the feasibility and effectiveness of fractionated 
stereotactic radiotherapy (FSR) in 51 patients with functional adenoma; 12 of 
them had Cushing's disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eleven females and one male, median age: 49 years, 8 of 
them relapsed and 4 had persistent hormonal secretion after surgery. The 
delivered dose was 50 grays (Gy) (5 x 1.8 Gy/week) using 5 convergent 
micro-beams scanning in arc therapy mode. The median planned target volume (PTV) 
receiving 90 to 100% of the total dose was 2,1 cm(3). We used relocatable 
non-invasive stereotactic device Brain Lab, and adapted Linac for stereotactic 
radiotherapy.
RESULTS: Nine out of twelve patients (75%) presented with complete remission 
after a median time of 29 months, 3/12 patients with partial remission. 
Actuarial probability to have hormonal persistent secretion was 88% at on year, 
44% from 3 to 5 years, 22% at 7 years, and 11% to 0% after 7 years. The 
12-corticotroph adenomas were significantly (p=0.007) more radiosensitive than 
39 non-corticotroph adenomas. Toxicity was significantly lower for corticotrope 
adenoma, with no radio-induced pituitary deficiency and no neurological or optic 
injury.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined surgery and FSR appears to be safe and effective for 
treatment of pituitary adenomas. However, long-term follow-up is required to 
determine the impact in terms of tumor response and hormone deficiency. The 
focused treated volume obtained by FSR seems more suitable for these benign 
tumours than standard radiotherapy. In addition to this conformal approach, the 
use of standard fractionation reduced the risk of severe damage to the optic 
chiasma, which is sometimes observed after radiosurgery and is inherent in 
single fraction radiotherapy.

PMID: 12058133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Chem Immunol. 2002;80:366-95. doi: 10.1159/000058836.

Malaria vaccine trials.

Greenwood B(1), Alonso P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. brian.greenwood@lshtm.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1159/000058836
PMID: 12058650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Med Decis Making. 2002 May-Jun;22(3):218-27. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0202200310.

Assessing the sensitivity of decision-analytic results to unobserved markers of 
risk: defining the effects of heterogeneity bias.

Kuntz KM(1), Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. kmk@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):102-4.

An important assumption made when constructing a Markov model is that all 
persons residing in a health state are identical. Failure to adjust for 
population heterogeneity caused by unobserved variables can therefore cause bias 
in model results. The authors used a simple model to evaluate the potential 
impact of heterogeneity bias, defined as the percentage change in the life 
expectancy gain with an intervention predicted by a model that does not adjust 
for heterogeneity (unadjusted model) compared to one that does (adjusted model). 
The life expectancy gains were consistently greater in the unadjusted model 
compared to the adjusted model (positive bias). For an annual probability of 
developing disease of 1%, the heterogeneity bias exceeded 50% when the relative 
risk of disease with the heterogeneity factor versus without the factor was 
greater than 15 and the prevalence of the heterogeneity factor was between 5% 
and 25%. When constructing decision-analytic models, analysts need to be 
cognizant of unobserved factors that introduce heterogeneity into the cohort. 
This analysis provides a general framework to determine when issues of 
heterogeneity may be important.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200310
PMID: 12058779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Med Decis Making. 2002 May-Jun;22(3):238-44. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0202200312.

Visual illusions created by survival curves and the need to avoid potential 
misinterpretation.

Lau EW(1), Ng GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 
United Kingdom. e.w.lau@bham.ac.uk

Randomized clinical trials play an increasingly important role in guiding 
management decisions, and survival curves are the most popular means for 
summarizing and depicting the results of a clinical trial. However, survival 
curves may create certain "visual illusions" that can be misinterpreted by the 
unwary, with potentially adverse effects on patient care. The authors provide a 
brief outline of the theoretical background of survival curves and explain the 
origin of the most common visual illusions. Statisticians need to be aware of 
such potential for misinterpretation of clinical trial data in order to 
safeguard clinicians against drawing undue inferences and applying them to 
actual practice.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0202200312
PMID: 12058781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Soc Sci Med. 2002 May;54(9):1379-88. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00120-4.

Life expectancy and mortality differences between migrant groups living in 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Uitenbroek DG(1), Verhoeff AP.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Health Service, Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
daanuitenbroek@gggd.amsterdam.nl

There is an apparent contradiction between the high level of morbidity and the 
low level of mortality observed in certain groups of migrants living in Europe. 
This observation should have some consequences for health policy development and 
the targeting of resources in a city like Amsterdam. In this paper a number of 
hypotheses to explain the low mortality in migrant groups are discussed. An 
analysis is made of mortality in Amsterdam using data from the civil registry as 
to mortality according to age, sex and nationality group of the deceased. 
Standard demographic techniques such as the standardised mortality ratio (SMR) 
and life table analysis were employed. Life table analysis shows that life 
expectancy in Amsterdam is lowest among residents of Dutch descent (73.3 yr for 
males and 79.1 yr for females) and highest among those of Mediterranean origin 
(77.6 yr for males and 86.1 yr for females). This appears to contradict previous 
research based on the SMR, which showed high mortality in migrant groups. To 
find the cause of this contradiction, the SMR and risk ratios by age are 
studied. The conclusion of this paper is that on the basis of life table 
analysis it appears that some immigrant groups living in Amsterdam have a 
remarkably high life expectancy. Since the SMR is sensitive to demographic 
differences between groups compared, questions can be raised about previous 
studies using the SMR. It has been suggested that the high life expectancy in 
migrant groups is not really caused by good health but by 'spurious' phenomena, 
such as problems in mortality registration. However, in view of the available 
data it seems likely that some migrant groups do in fact have high life 
expectancy, although the morbidity in these groups can be quite high. These 
findings should inform health-related policy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00120-4
PMID: 12058854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Physiol Plant. 2001 Nov;113(3):301-307. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-3054.2001.1130301.x.

An aquatic perspective on the concepts of Ingestad relating plant nutrition to 
plant growth.

Raven JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental and Applied Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 4HN, UK.

The Ingestad approach to the culture of higher terrestrial plants for 
physiological studies is discussed in relation to a number of resources, 
organisms and growth situations that were not part of the original design and 
