rationale of Ingestad's methodology. The additional resource considered is 
photosynthetically active radiation, and difficulties of applying the Ingestad 
approach to this resource as well as to atmospheric CO2 are considered. The 
relationship of the Ingestad approach to reductionist studies based on enzyme 
kinetic studies is then briefly considered. The organisms considered next are 
aquatic plants, including both micro- and macrophytes. The consideration of 
photosynthetic microorganisms leads to a comparison of the Ingestad approach 
with growth in batch, and in continuous (chemostat and turbidostat) cultures, 
and with studies on growth in synchronous cultures in which cyclic changes in 
cell composition in the cell growth and division cycle can be identified. The 
natural environmental conditions for these organisms are a natural extension of 
the light/dark synchronization of laboratory cultures, and the bloom (batch 
culture equivalent to new production) and of grazing and parasitism removing 
biomass and recycling nutrients (chemostat or turbidostat culture equivalent to 
recycled production) situations for phytoplankton. The overall conclusion is 
that, while the Ingestad approach is a useful mirror in which to examine other 
concepts of plant resource acquisition and manipulation, the Ingestad 
methodology seems to make assumptions about the intrinsic growth rate and 
composition of plants that cannot be independently verified.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3054.2001.1130301.x
PMID: 12060273


858. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jun 11;99(12):8442-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.122587599.

Life-long sustained mortality advantage of siblings of centenarians.

Perls TT(1), Wilmoth J, Levenson R, Drinkwater M, Cohen M, Bogan H, Joyce E, 
Brewster S, Kunkel L, Puca A.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Section, Boston Medical Center and Boston University Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02118, USA. thomas.perls@bmc.org

Although survival to old age is known to have strong environmental and 
behavioral components, mortality differences between social groups tend to 
diminish or even disappear at older ages. Hypothesizing that surviving to 
extreme old age entails a substantial familial predisposition for longevity, we 
analyzed the pedigrees of 444 centenarian families in the United States. These 
pedigrees included 2,092 siblings of centenarians, whose survival was compared 
with 1900 birth cohort survival data from the U.S. Social Security 
Administration. Siblings of centenarians experienced a mortality advantage 
throughout their lives relative to the U.S. 1900 cohort. Female siblings had 
death rates at all ages about one-half the national level; male siblings had a 
similar advantage at most ages, although diminished somewhat during adolescence 
and young adulthood. Relative survival probabilities for these siblings increase 
markedly at older ages, reflecting the cumulative effect of their mortality 
advantage throughout life. Compared with the U.S. 1900 cohort, male siblings of 
centenarians were at least 17 times as likely to attain age 100 themselves, 
while female siblings were at least 8 times as likely.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.122587599
PMCID: PMC123086
PMID: 12060785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Hosp Q. 2001-2002 Winter;5(2):87-90. doi: 10.12927/hcq..16686.

Impact of the "new science" of genomics.

Coile RC Jr.

The next 100 years will be the century of biology, just as the 20th century was 
driven by physics and chemistry. The global economy and social outlook for this 
century will be propelled by the new science of genomics. The expanding frontier 
of biotechnology promises life extension, cures for diseases, and enhanced 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.12927/hcq..16686
PMID: 12061114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Orv Hetil. 2002 May 12;143(19 Suppl):1052-7.

[Acromegaly: a disorder with distinguished features yet delayed diagnosis].

[Article in Hungarian]

Rácz K, Tóth M, Jakab C, Patócs A, Kiss R.

The authors review the historical and epidemiological aspects, as well as the 
distinguishing clinical features and complications of acromegaly to emphasize 
the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of patients with this disorder. 
Acromegaly is a rare disorder with a prevalence of 55-69 cases per million 
population and an incidence of 3-4 newly detected cases per million per year. 
Recent estimates indicate, that its slow progression and insidious course leads 
to a considerable time lag of 7-12 years between the first symptoms and the 
diagnosis of the disease, although younger patients with more severe disease may 
be detected earlier. In addition to the disfigurement and disability which 
develop progressively from the onset of the disease, acromegaly is associated 
with a number of complications resulting in a two- or three-fold increase of 
mortality and a decrease of life expectancy by about 10 years. The major causes 
of death include cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, respiratory disease 
and malignancy. Because the duration of the disease before effective therapy may 
be one of the major predictors of increased mortality, practicing doctors need 
to be particularly vigilant to recognize undiagnosed cases in order to avoid the 
serious complications of the disease.

PMID: 12063859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Dan Med Bull. 2002 May;49(2):145-58.

Epidemiology of emphysema in subjects with severe alpha 1-antitrypsin 
deficiency.

Seersholm N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, H:S Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhangen.

PMID: 12064091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Med Care. 2002 Jun;40(6 Suppl):III63-72.

Measuring costs: administrative claims data, clinical trials, and beyond.

Etzioni R(1), Riley GF, Ramsey SD, Brown M.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Accurate estimation of medical care costs raises a host of issues, 
both practical and methodological.
OBJECTIVES: This article reviews methods for estimating the long-term medical 
care costs associated with a cancer diagnosis.
METHODS: The authors consider data from administrative claims databases and 
describe the analytic challenges posed by these increasingly common resources. 
They present a number of statistical methods that are valid under censoring and 
describe methods for estimating mean costs and controlling for covariates. In 
addition, the authors compare two different approaches for estimating the 
cancer-related costs; namely, the portion of the long-term costs that may be 
attributed to the disease. Examples from economic studies of breast and 
colorectal cancer are presented.
RESULTS: In an analysis of data on colorectal cancer costs from the 
SEER-Medicare database, the two methods used to estimate expected long-term 
costs (one model based, one not model-based) yielded similar results. However, 
in calculating expected cancer-related costs, a method that included future 
medical costs among controls yielded quite different results from the method 
that did not include these future costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Statistical methods for analyzing long-term medical costs under 
censoring are available and appropriate in many applications where total or 
disease-related costs are of interest. Several of these approaches are 
nonparametric and therefore may be expected to be robust against the 
non-standard features that are often encountered when analyzing medical cost 
data.

PMID: 12064760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Semin Gastrointest Dis. 2002 Apr;13(2):80-8.

Diagnosis of hemochromatosis.

Powell LW(1).

Author information:
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research and The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia. lawrieP@qimr.edu.au

Hereditary hemochromatosis is an inherited disorder of iron metabolism affecting 
approximately 1 in 200 to 300 individuals of Northern European descent. Over 
time, the continued deposition of iron in parenchymal cells of many organs can 
eventually lead to diabetes mellitus, cardiomyopathy, and hepatic cirrhosis, the 
last of which is frequently followed by hepatocellular carcinoma. Although the 
complications of hereditary hemochromatosis can be devastating, its clinical 
management is simple and effective if the disease is identified early in its 
progression. In affected individuals, it is important to confirm or exclude the 
presence of cirrhosis and begin therapy as early as possible. The insidious 
onset and high prevalence of nonspecific symptoms in the early stages of the 
disease requires the clinician to have a high index of clinical suspicion for 
this disease. This is particularly important because treatment before there is 
permanent organ damage can reverse the iron toxicity and restore life expectancy 
to normal. Because of its familial occurrence all first-degree relatives of 
patients with hereditary hemochromatosis should be tested for the disease.

PMID: 12064863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Jun;16(2):243-61. doi: 
10.1053/beem.2002.0197.

The impact and management of Turner's syndrome in adult life.

Conway GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Middlesex Hospital, Mortimer Street, London, WIN 
8AA, UK.

Turner's syndrome (TS), caused by an absent or structurally abnormal X 
chromosome, affects 1 in 2500 live female births. Most medical attention has 
focused on the attainment of final height in childhood and, when this has been 
achieved, many women are discharged to primary care. It has become increasingly 
evident that adults with Turner's syndrome are susceptible to a range of 
disorders such as osteoporosis, hypothyroidism and diabetes. Because of these, 
and because of the need for long-term oestrogen replacement, it seems most 
practical for adult health surveillance in TS to come under the remit of the 
endocrinologist. It must be accepted, however, that the reduced life expectancy 
in women with TS is largely accounted for by cardiovascular disease. Also, the 
commonly observed social isolation in adults with TS can be linked to deafness 
that is increasingly prevalent in an ageing group. Co-ordination of all these 
issues requires a dedicated multidisciplinary clinic along the lines of those in 
place in diabetes.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/beem.2002.0197
PMID: 12064891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. US News World Rep. 2002 Jun 3;132(19):86.

100 and counting.

Schneider J.

PMID: 12066464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Int J Prosthodont. 2001 Sep-Oct;14(5):432-8.

Alumina ceramic implant abutments used for single-tooth replacement: a 
prospective 1- to 3-year multicenter study.

Andersson B(1), Taylor A, Lang BR, Scheller H, Schärer P, Sorensen JA, Tarnow D.

Author information:
(1)SIM/Prosthetic Dentistry, Specialist Dental Service, SU/Mölndal, S-431 80 
Mölndal, Sweden. bernt.andersson@vgregion.se

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to compare results after 1 and 3 years when 
single crowns supported by CerAdapt (test) ceramic abutments or CeraOne 
(control) titanium abutments were loaded.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The material was divided into two groups: in group A, 69 
(34 test, 35 control) abutments/crowns from all involved clinics were followed 
for 1 year; and in group B, 20 (10 test, 10 control) abutments/crowns from one 
of the clinics were followed for 3 years.
RESULTS: No implant failed, giving a cumulative success rate of 100% for the 
implants. Two CerAdapt abutments in group A fractured, giving a cumulative 
success rate of 93% for the CerAdapt and 100% for the CeraOne abutments after 1 
year. No abutment failed in group B, giving a cumulative success rate of 100% 
both for the CerAdapt and the CeraOne abutments between 1 and 3 years. The 
CerAdapt fractures might have been due to the fact that the abutments were 
impaired through too-extensive preparation and/or had been exposed to a too-high 
bending moment. Almost no marginal bone loss was recorded, indicating a stable 
bone situation both at CerAdapt and CeraOne abutments on single-tooth implants. 
Healthy conditions, with a relatively stable level of the periimplant mucosa in 
relation to the abutment/crown, were recorded for soft tissues both at CerAdapt 
and CeraOne abutments. Both clinicians and patients rated the esthetic result as 
excellent for practically all cases.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrate the esthetic possibilities and the safety of 
single-tooth replacement when accepted treatment concepts are followed and 
documented components are used. The tested abutments worked well, although the 
fractured CerAdapt abutments indicate that ceramic abutments are more sensitive 
to handling procedures than the titanium abutments.

PMID: 12066638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Quintessence Int. 2001 Mar;32(3):199-205.

A 5-year clinical study of indirect and direct resin composite and ceramic 
inlays.

Thordrup M(1), Isidor F, Hörsted-Bindslev P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Pathology, Operative Dentistry and Endodontics, Royal 
Dental College, University of Aarhus, Vennelyst Boulevard DK-8000, Aarhus C, 
Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the clinical 
performance of 4 types of tooth-colored inlays.
METHOD AND MATERIALS: Fifteen direct ceramic inlays (Cerec Cos 2.0), 15 direct 
resin composite inlays (Brilliant Direct Inlay), 14 indirect ceramic inlays 
(Vita Dur N), and 14 indirect resin composite inlays (Estilux) were made in 37 
patients, according to the manufacturers' instructions. The inlays were 
evaluated 1 week (baseline) and 6, 12, 36, 48, and 60 months after cementation 
(modified CDA Quality Evaluation System).
RESULTS: Two Vita Dur N inlays fractured after 1 and 4 years in function, and 
one Cerec inlay fractured after 4.5 years. Two Brilliant DI inlays needed 
replacement because of secondary caries (after 1 and 5 years), and one inlay 
(Estilux) needed replacement due to persisting hypersensitivity. Three inlays (1 
Estilux and 2 Brilliant DI) were repaired due to chipping or minor fractures. 
During the observation period, the surface texture of Brilliant DI and Vita Dur 
N inlays became significantly rougher. After 5 years, the Estilux inlays had 
significantly lower ratings for morphology compared to baseline ratings. In 
general, the occlusal marginal adaptation did not show further disintegration of 
the luting cement after 1 year.
CONCLUSION: Eighty-eight percent of the inlays were in function after 5 years. 
No significant differences were revealed among the survival rates of the 
different types of inlays.

PMID: 12066659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Int J Prosthodont. 2001 Nov-Dec;14(6):504-9.

Procera AllCeram crowns followed for 5 to 10.5 years: a prospective clinical 
study.

Odman P(1), Andersson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry/Dental Materials Science, Faculty of 
Odontology, Göteborg University, PO Box 450, SE 40530 Göteborg, Sweden. 
Odman@odontologi.gu.se

PURPOSE: This is a report on Procera AllCeram crowns in a prospective 
multicenter study. The aim of the study was to evaluate AllCeram crowns in 
dental practice over a 5- to 10.5-year period. Some of the AllCeram crowns were 
among the very first that were placed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The crowns were placed between 1989 and 1995. Twelve 
clinicians at nine clinics placed 87 crowns in 50 patients. The California 
Dental Association quality evaluation system was used for assessment of marginal 
integrity and esthetics.
RESULTS: After 5 and 10 years a cumulative survival rate of 97.7% and 93.5%, 
respectively, and a cumulative success rate of 97.7% and 92.2%, respectively, 
was recorded. Six crowns (7%) were recorded as failures; five of these crowns 
(6%) had to be remade. The marginal integrity was considered excellent or 
acceptable for 92% of the crowns. Bleeding was somewhat more often recorded at 
teeth with AllCeram crowns (39%) than at contralateral teeth (27%). Endodontic 
treatment was performed for a low number (2%) of the AllCeram crowns. The 
patients found the esthetics to be excellent.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate about the same clinical 
outcome as has been reported by similar studies on all-ceramic crowns built on a 
core of alumina. The outcome is also in agreement with that reported for 
metal-ceramic crowns. The results indicate a good prognosis for Procera AllCeram 
crowns also for posterior teeth.

PMID: 12066695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Int J Prosthodont. 2001 Nov-Dec;14(6):536-42.

A longitudinal study on mandibular implants supporting an overdenture: the 
influence of retention mechanism and anatomic-prosthetic variables on 
periimplant parameters.

Oetterli M(1), Kiener P, Mericske-Stern R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of Berne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The aim of this 5-year longitudinal study was to investigate the 
influence of the retention mechanism for overdenture fixation on the periimplant 
parameters of mandibular implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ninety edentulous patients, each with two interforaminal 
implants supporting an overdenture, participated in the study. They had received 
either a straight or slightly bent round clip bar, a U-shaped rigid bar with or 
without distal extensions, or single-ball anchors. Anatomic-morphologic and 
prosthetic variables were assessed related to the implant position and the type 
of overdenture retention. The degree of mandibular atrophy was determined using 
cephalometric radiographs. The angle beta between the virtual axis connecting 
both implants and the mandibular hinge axis was measured on mounted casts. A 
supporting surface was identified between bent clip bars and U-shaped extension 
bars. Clinical periimplant parameters were recorded, and changes of the probing 
attachment level after 5 years were analyzed in 70 patients with respect to the 
retention device and anatomic-morphologic and prosthetic variables.
RESULTS: A significant increase of the Plaque Index was observed after 5 years. 
The mean clinical attachment loss after 5 years was about 0.2 mm. In more than 
50%, beta was small, i.e., < or = 5 degrees. For these implants, loss of 
clinical attachment was significantly lower. The correlation between attachment 
loss and beta was weak, while no significant correlation was found with regard 
to the degree of atrophy and surface.
CONCLUSION: In view of the long observation period, it was concluded that the 
position and retention mechanism of mandibular implants supporting an 
overdenture have little influence on the long-term stability of the clinical 
parameters.

PMID: 12066700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Int J Prosthodont. 2001 Nov-Dec;14(6):575-81.

Tooth- and implant-supported prostheses: a retrospective clinical follow-up up 
to 8 years.

Kindberg H(1), Gunne J, Kronström M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Public Dental Health Service, 
Helsingborg, Sweden.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical treatment outcome of 
fixed prostheses in different sizes and with combinations of different numbers 
of teeth and implants as abutments.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 115 implants were placed in 36 patients, 75 
(65%) in the maxilla and 40 (35%) in the mandible. The implants were connected 
to 85 abutment teeth, 50 in the maxilla and 35 in the mandible. Of the 
prosthetic restorations, 19 were gold ceramic, 17 were gold acrylic, three were 
titanium acrylic, one was titanium ceramic, and one was titanium composite. The 
observation period ranged from 14 months to 8.9 years. The treatments comprised 
both fixed partial dentures supported by one tooth and one implant as well as 
complete-arch fixed prostheses supported by a number of teeth and implants.
RESULTS: A total of nine implants were lost, three during healing and six after 
loading. The postloading cumulative implant survival rate was 89.8% after 5 
years. Five abutment teeth were lost, and of the 41 prostheses included in the 
study, only two (5%) were lost during the observation period. Marginal bone loss 
was registered around 46 implants at the 1-year follow-up examination. During 
the following observation period, only slight changes in the marginal bone level 
adjacent to the implants and teeth were registered. The magnitude of technical 
complications was low.
CONCLUSION: This investigation confirms the findings in similar studies that 
treatments with periodontally healthy teeth and implants splinted together in 
rigid one-piece superstructures show excellent long-term follow-up results.

PMID: 12066706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Int J Health Serv. 2002;32(2):229-53. doi: 10.2190/7HLT-XMYW-QPD5-9UA5.

The scorecard on globalization 1980-2000: its consequences for economic and 
social well-being.

Weisbrot M(1), Baker D, Kraev E, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Economic and Policy Research, Washington, DC, USA.

The era of globalization has brought substantially less progress than was 
achieved in the preceding 20 years. This study by the Center for Economic and 
Policy Research concludes that the data provide no evidence that the policies 
associated with globalization have improved outcomes for developing countries, 
and its findings challenge economists and policymakers who cite globalization as 
an engine of growth while pressing for policies that strengthen the trend. The 
study also served as a backdrop to the release of the United Nations Development 
Program's Human Development Report on July 11, 2001. Using standard measures of 
economic growth, health outcomes, education, and literacy, the CEPR study 
compares the progress achieved during the period preceding globalization, 
1960-80, with the period from 1980 to 2000, which was characterized by the 
reduction of tariff and nontariff barriers to trade, the removal of restrictions 
on international investment flows, and increasing intervention by the 
International Monetary Fund and World Bank on a wide range of economic and 
policy issues. While the evidence presented here does not prove that the 
policies associated with globalization were responsible for the deterioration in 
economic performance, it does present a very strong prima facie case that some 
structural and policy changes implemented during the last two decades are at 
least partly responsible for these declines.

DOI: 10.2190/7HLT-XMYW-QPD5-9UA5
PMID: 12067030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Ageing Res Rev. 2002 Jun;1(3):313-26. doi: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00003-x.

Regulation of lifespan by histone deacetylase.

Chang KT(1), Min KT.

Author information:
(1)Neurogenetics Branch (MSC 1250), Building 10, Room 3B12, NINDS, NIH, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Aging is a universal biological phenomenon in eukaryotes, but why and how we age 
still remain mysterious. It would be of great biological interest and practical 
importance if we could uncover the molecular mechanism of aging, and find a way 
to delay the aging process while maintaining physical and mental strengths of 
youth. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) such as SIR2 and RPD3 are known to be 
involved in the extension of lifespan in yeast and Caenorhabditis elegans. An 
inhibitor of HDACs, phenylbutyrate, also can significantly increase the lifespan 
of Drosophila, without diminution of locomotor vigor, resistance to stress, or 
reproductive ability. Treatment for a limited period, either early or late in 
adult life, is also effective. Alteration in the pattern of gene expression, 
including induction or repression of numerous genes involved in longevity by 
changing the level and the pattern of histone acetylation may be an important 
factor in determining the longevity of animals.

DOI: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00003-x
PMID: 12067588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Lancet Oncol. 2002 May;3(5):289-97. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(02)00730-1.

A case for geriatric oncology.

Repetto L(1), Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Nazionale di Riposo e Cura per Anziani, Rome, Italy.

The increase in cancer incidence with increasing age is becoming more obvious 
and more important as the average age of the population increases. The close 
link between old age and cancer development is the result of three main factors: 
the substantial length of time required for carcinogenesis; the occurrence of 
age-related molecular changes that mimic carcinogenesis; and, changes in bodily 
environment that favour cancer progression, which is a consequence of increasing 
age. The clinical behaviour of common malignant diseases, eg, breast, ovarian, 
and lung cancers, lymphomas, and acute leukaemias, may change with age because 
of intrinsic variation of the neoplastic cells and the ability of the tumour 
host to support neoplastic growth. Therapeutic decisions should be based on an 
estimation of the patient's life expectancy, and risks and benefits should be 
weighted up accordingly. A comprehensive geriatric assessment of function, 
comorbidity, cognition, depression, social support, nutrition, and polypharmacy, 
would allow interventions to be tailored to individual needs. In developed 
countries, the numbers of older people who develop cancer are increasing and 
many questions remain unanswered. These issues include: the causes of the 
association of cancer and ageing; the age-related differences in cancer biology; 
the goals of cancer treatment in the aged; and the effectiveness of cancer 
prevention. We review the biological and clinical interactions of cancer and 
ageing and discuss the skills and knowledge necessary for caring for older 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(02)00730-1
PMID: 12067806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Jul;283(1):E38-43. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00387.2001.

Effects of caloric restriction on mitochondrial function and gene transcripts in 
rat muscle.

Sreekumar R(1), Unnikrishnan J, Fu A, Nygren J, Short KR, Schimke J, Barazzoni 
R, Nair KS.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Division, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

Rodent skeletal muscle mitochondrial DNA has been shown to be a potential site 
of oxidative damage during aging. Caloric restriction (CR) is reported to reduce 
oxidative stress and prolong life expectancy in rodents. Gene expression 
profiling and measurement of mitochondrial ATP production capacity were 
performed in skeletal muscle of male rats after feeding them either a control 
diet or calorie-restricted diet (60% of control diet) for 36 wk to determine the 
potential mechanism of the beneficial effects of CR. CR enhanced the transcripts 
of genes involved in reactive oxygen free radical scavenging function, tissue 
development, and energy metabolism while decreasing expression of those genes 
involved in signal transduction, stress response, and structural and contractile 
proteins. Real-time PCR measurements confirmed the changes in transcript levels 
of cytochrome-c oxidase III, superoxide dismutase (SOD)1, and SOD2 that were 
noted by the microarray approach. Mitochondrial ATP production and citrate 
synthase were unaltered by the dietary changes. We conclude that CR alters 
transcript levels of several genes in skeletal muscle and that mitochondrial 
function in skeletal muscle remains unaltered by the dietary intervention. 
Alterations in transcripts of many genes involved in reactive oxygen scavenging 
function may contribute to the increase in longevity reported with CR.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00387.2001
PMID: 12067840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2002 Jun;54(2):51-63.

Cardiovascular risk reduction in renal transplantation. Strategies for success.

Kiberd BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
bkiberd@is.dal.ca

One of the aims of transplantation is to restore the potential for a full life 
to individuals with ESRD. To obtain this strategies that allow better and longer 
allograft function and a reduction in adverse events that lead to premature 
death are required. To this end, the recommendations below showed reduce 
cardiovascular disease and help present and future transplant recipients live a 
full life. Focusing on traditional risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, 
discontinuation of smoking, and prevention and treatment of diabetes mellitus) 
in patients at risk and striving for the recommended targets will have the 
greatest clinical benefit. These strategies should begin in the pre-dialysis and 
dialysis phases in order to reduce the cumulative burden of disease. Failing 
this, early and hopefully pre-emptive transplantation should be the goal.

PMID: 12070454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Minerva Pediatr. 2002 Jun;54(3):187-201.

Angiopathy in children with diabetes.

Chiarelli F(1), Mohn A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Chieti, Chieti, Italy.

Diabetic angiopathy includes those complications associated with chronic 
hyperglycaemia. The major long-term complications of diabetes can be categorized 
into two classes: macrovascular (i.e., cardiovascular complications) and 
microvascular (i.e., nephropathy, retinopathy, and neuropathy). Clinically 
evident diabetic vascular disease is rare in children and adolescents with type 
1 diabetes mellitus: however, the permanent threat of severe vascular organ 
disease within one or two decades, of early invalidity and limited life 
expectancy following long-term poor metabolic regulation (which is known to the 
health professional but only incompletely sensed by the young patient), forces 
the paediatrician to try to reach from the start the aim of normoglycaemia 
instead of merely somewhat reduced hyperglycaemia, normal lipid and amino acid 
patterns and near normal fluctuations of all metabolic parameters. With our 
present means of intervention, this goal is achieved only temporarily, if at 
all, necessitating immense permanent efforts by the patient and his or her 
family, including a greater responsibility (compared to that of his/her peers) 
for his/her everyday lifestyle. In this review natural history, risk factors and 
screening of diabetic microvascular and macrovascular complications will be 
described, with particular emphasis to the aspects of these complications in 
childhood and adolescence. Pediatric diabetologists, other health professionals 
and families of children must be aware of the risk of diabetic angiopathy (a 
Damocle's sword on the head of patients with diabetes) and try to do their best 
for preventing these complications.

PMID: 12070477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2002 Jun;87(2):112-9. doi: 10.1007/s00421-002-0604-6.
Epub  2002 Apr 5.

Effects of equivolume isometric training programs comprising medium or high 
resistance on muscle size and strength.

Kanehisa H(1), Nagareda H, Kawakami Y, Akima H, Masani K, Kouzaki M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 
Komaba, Meguro-ku, Japan. hkane@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Isometric unilateral elbow extension training was conducted for 10 weeks (3 
times per week) on 12 young adult men to investigate the effects of equivolume 
exercise programs with different combinations of intensity and duration on the 
morphological and functional aspects of the triceps brachii muscle. One group of 
6 subjects trained by developing maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) for 6 s per 
set with 12 sets per session (100%G), while the other group of 6 subjects 
trained at 60% of MVC for 30 s per set with 4 sets per session (60%G). Training 
significantly increased the muscle volume ( V(m)), fascicle pennation angle of 
the triceps brachii, and torque output during concentric and eccentric elbow 
extensions at three constant velocities of 0.52, 1.57, and 3.14 rad.s(-1) as 
well as under the training condition, with no significant differences in the 
relative gains between the two programs. However, 100%G showed significantly 
greater V(m) than 60%G after training, when V(m) before training was normalized. 
Thus, only 60%G significantly increased the ratio of torque to V(m) developed in 
the eccentric actions at the three velocities and concentric action at 1.57 
rad.s(-1). The present results indicate that isometric training programs of 
medium resistance/long duration and high resistance/short duration produce 
different effects on V(m) and dynamic strength relative to V(m), even if the 
training volume is equalized between the two protocols.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-002-0604-6
PMID: 12070620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Tunis Med. 2002 Jan;80(1):12-7.

[Tunisian health profile: present state and trends].

[Article in French]

Fakhfakh R(1), Hsairi M, Ben Romdhane H, Achour N.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de Santé Publique, Tunis.

We will try to value the Tunisian Health Profile, its present state and its 
tendencies. Data have been collected by various sources, in particular 
international and national organism. The total fertility rate passed from 8 in 
1966 to 2.01 in 1999. Besides a light ageing of the population is started (9% of 
the population are aged of more than 60 years in 1999). Death rates recorded a 
decrease, mainly of the infantile mortality (140%@1000 in 1966 against 
24.7%@1000 in 1999) and the maternal mortality (68.9 per 100,000 living births 
in 1994 against 220 in 1980-1984). The life expectancy at birth passed from 51 
years in 1966 to 72.4 years in 1999. According the morbidity we attend the 
receding of the majority of transmitted diseases. Resources injected in the 
system of cares also evolved: The medical density passed from 1 per 6700 
inhabitants in 1966 to 1 per 1300 in 1999. Tunisia recorded the most elevated 
scores for the preventive activities in particular at the vaccinal coverage. The 
global evolution of the Tunisian health profile is marked by the epidemiological 
transition buy which pass the country currently. This phase is delicate because 
it's generating of a growth of care expenses. Decision-makers must be careful to 
consider advantage priorities and the profitability of the investments.

PMID: 12071037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Am Chem Soc. 2002 Jun 26;124(25):7314-23. doi: 10.1021/ja0177915.

Hybridization and enzymatic extension of au nanoparticle-bound oligonucleotides.

Nicewarner Peña SR(1), Raina S, Goodrich GP, Fedoroff NV, Keating CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Life Sciences Consortium, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

We have investigated the impact of steric effects on the hybridization and 
enzymatic extension of oligonucleotides bound to 12-nm colloidal Au particles. 
In these experiments, a nanoparticle-bound 12-mer sequence is hybridized either 
to its solution phase 12-mer complement or to an 88-mer template sequence. The 
particle-bound oligonucleotide serves as a primer for enzymatic extension 
reactions, in which covalent incorporation of nucleotides to form the complement 
of the template is achieved by the action of DNA polymerase. Primers were 
attached via-C(6)H(12)SH, -C(12)H(24)SH, and -TTACAATC(6)H(12)SH linkers 
attached at the 5' end. Primer coverage on the nanoparticles was varied by 
dilution with (5')HSC(6)H(12)AAA AAA(3'). Hybridization efficiencies were 
determined as a function of linker length, primer coverage, complement length 
(12-mer vs 88-mer), and primer:complement concentration ratio. In all cases, 
hybridization for the 88-mer was less efficient than for the 12-mer. Low primer 
surface coverage, greater particle-primer separation, and higher 
primer:complement ratios led to optimal hybridization. Hybridization 
efficiencies as high as 98% and 75% were observed for the 12-mer and 88-mer, 
respectively. Enzymatic extension of particle-bound primers was observed under 
all conditions tested; however, the efficiency of the reaction was strongly 
affected by linker length and primer coverage. Extension of primers attached by 
the longest linker was as efficient as the solution-phase reaction.

DOI: 10.1021/ja0177915
PMID: 12071740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2002 Jun;56(6):787-91. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.2002.t01-1-01552.x.

High prevalence and increasing incidence of Addison's disease in western Norway.

Løvås K(1), Husebye ES.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Institute of Medicine, Haukeland University 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway. kristian.lovas@haukeland.no

OBJECTIVE: Estimates of the prevalence of Addison's disease in Caucasians have 
varied from 39 to 117 per million. We have carried out an epidemiological study 
to obtain a confident point prevalence estimate in the Norwegian population for 
the end of 1999, and to find out whether the incidence is changing.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The patients were identified by a search through registers 
of 10 hospitals and consultant endocrinologists serving a population of 916 000. 
The completeness of the list was tested by a survey of general practitioners in 
one district, and by the member list of the local Addison Association in another 
district.
RESULTS: We identified 128 patients with Addison's disease (59 men and 69 
women), yielding a prevalence of 140 per million. Recorded mean incidence in the 
past decade was 0.62 per 100,000 per year. Fifty-one patients (40%) had 
concomitant endocrine diseases. The aetiology was almost exclusively idiopathic 
or autoimmune.
CONCLUSIONS: We found a higher prevalence of Addison's disease in western Norway 
than has previously been reported anywhere. Our findings support the hypothesis 
of a rising incidence of autoimmune adrenal insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.2002.t01-1-01552.x
PMID: 12072049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Curr Opin Urol. 2002 Jul;12(4):345-52. doi:
10.1097/00042307-200207000-00014.

Evaluation and management of rectoceles.

Segal JL(1), Karram MM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery, Good Samaritan 
Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio 45220, USA. Jeffreysegal@msn.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As life expectancy increases, the prevalence of pelvic organ 
prolapse in general, and rectoceles, in particular, will continue to grow. The 
objectives of this article are to review the basic anatomy and contributing 
factors associated with the development of rectoceles and to discuss the 
appropriate work-up and treatment options.
RECENT FINDINGS: The main themes in the current literature stress the importance 
of not only anatomic restoration, but also quality of life issues regarding 
visceral and sexual function when performing a rectocele repair. Many recent 
studies are also evaluating the role of preoperative adjunctive tests to better 
evaluate women with combined pelvic floor disorders, while others are looking at 
outcomes data regarding the various surgical approaches to repair a rectocele.
SUMMARY: With significant advancements in pelvic anatomy over the last several 
decades the surgical approach to treating symptomatic rectoceles has evolved 
from the traditional posterior colporrhaphy with levator ani plication to the 
defect specific rectocele repair. While anatomic and overall functional outcomes 
have improved, one still needs to better define the correlation between 
defecatory dysfunction and a rectocele.

DOI: 10.1097/00042307-200207000-00014
PMID: 12072657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Crit Care Med. 2002 Jun;30(6):1191-6. doi: 10.1097/00003246-200206000-00002.

Cost effectiveness of aggressive care for patients with nontraumatic coma.

Hamel MB(1), Phillips R, Teno J, Davis RB, Goldman L, Lynn J, Desbiens N, 
Connors AF Jr, Tsevat J.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2002 Jun;30(6):1382-3.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of aggressive care for patients 
with nontraumatic coma.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: Five academic medical centers.
PATIENTS: Patients with nontraumatic coma enrolled in the Study to Understand 
Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and Risks of Treatments (SUPPORT). 
Patients with reversible metabolic causes of coma such as diabetic ketoacidosis 
or uremia were excluded.
MEASUREMENTS: We calculated the incremental cost effectiveness of continuing 
aggressive care vs. withholding cardiopulmonary resuscitation and ventilatory 
support after day 3 of coma. We estimated life expectancy based on up to 4.6 yrs 
of follow-up. Utilities (quality-of-life weights) were estimated using 
time-tradeoff questions. Costs were based on hospital fiscal data and Medicare 
data. Separate analyses were conducted for two prognostic groups based on five 
risk factors assessed on day 3 of coma: age > or = 70 yrs, abnormal brainstem 
response, absent verbal response, absent withdrawal to pain, and serum 
creatinine > or = 132.6 micromol/L (1.5 mg/dL).
RESULTS: For the 596 patients studied, the median (25th, 75th percentile) age 
was 67 yrs (range, 55-77), and 52% were female. By 2 months after enrollment, 
69% had died, 19% were severely disabled, 7% had survived without severe 
disability, and 4% had survived with unknown functional status. The incremental 
cost effectiveness of the more aggressive care strategy was $140,000 (1998 
dollars) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for high-risk patients (3-5 risk 
factors, 93% 2-month mortality) and $87,000/QALY for low-risk patients (0-2 risk 
factors, 49% mortality). In sensitivity analyses, the incremental cost per QALY 
did not fall below $50,000/QALY, even with wide variation in our baseline 
estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing aggressive care after day 3 of nontraumatic coma is 
associated with a high cost per QALY gained, especially for patients at high 
risk for poor outcomes. Earlier decisions to withhold life-sustaining treatments 
for patients with very poor prognoses may yield considerable cost savings.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-200206000-00002
PMID: 12072667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2002 May;158(5 Pt 1):575-8.

[Nocturnal oxymetry in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: role in 
predicting survival].

[Article in French]

Velasco R(1), Salachas F, Munerati E, Le Forestier N, Pradat PF, Lacomblez L, 
Orvoen Frija E, Meininger V.

Author information:
(1)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris: Fédération de Neurologie Mazarin, 
Hôpital de la Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Death is the most important end point along the course of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS). It is commonly attributed to a respiratory failure in relation 
with a restrictive respiratory disorder. However, in clinical practice, it is 
frequent to observe that death has not direct relation with the values of the 
respiratory function, at least measured with vital capacity. It is also frequent 
that relatives report sudden death during nocturnal sleep. All these features 
raised the question of the possible relation between death and nocturnal 
oxymetry in ALS patients. In a prospective study, we studied 69 ALS patients. We 
recorded demographic data, clinical parameters as manual muscle testing and 
functional scales, various parameters of oxymetry measured by pulse oxymetry 
recorded during night, slow vital capacity and survival time. There is a strong 
correlation between survival time measured by Kaplan Meier curves and log rank 
and the mean nocturnal saturation. We determined 93 mmHg as a threshold value. 
Below this threshold, mean survival time was 7.5+/-1.6 months and above it was 
equal to 18.5+/-1.5; relative risk was 3.31. These data confirm the importance 
of nocturnal oxymetry on survival in ALS patients both in clinical practice and 
in view of therapeutic trials.

PMID: 12072825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2002 Jun 1;146(22):1031-4.

[The effect of treatment delay on the prognosis of breast cancer patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Kievit J(1).

Author information:
(1)Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, afd. Heelkunde/Medische Besliskunde, 
Postbus 9600, 2300 RC Leiden. j.kievit@lumc.nl

The central issue of waiting lists is health loss that may result from treatment 
delay. As no randomised controlled trials exist, all studies on the relationship 
between delay and outcome are subject to bias, the extent of which depends on 
the mechanisms that cause delay. From published observational data, the 
deleterious effect of delay on prognosis was estimated to be nearly 2% in 5-year 
mortality per month of treatment delay in breast cancer. A modelling approach 
suggests a more limited delay-loss effect of around 1% per month of delay, 
equalling a loss of life expectancy of around 3 months. These figures support 
the belief that treatment of breast cancer should not be delayed further than a 
period of 3 weeks, striking a reasonable balance between therapeutic 'surprise 
attack' of the patient and unnecessary delay. In the presence of waiting lists, 
prioritization of patient treatment should be guided by the aim to minimize 
health loss, based on the relationship between treatment delay and health loss. 
Such considerations are valid not only for breast cancer patients, but for all 
patients in whom delay may result in serious health loss.

PMID: 12073505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Pak Med Assoc. 2002 Feb;52(2):69-73.

Interventions for control of road traffic injuries: review of effectiveness 
literature.

Ghaffar A(1), Hyder AA, Bishai D, Morrow RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Health System, Health Services Academy, 
Islamabad, Pakistan.

OBJECTIVE: In 1998, road traffic injuries were estimated to be the 9th leading 
cause of loss of healthy life globally and are projected to become the 3rd 
leading cause by 2020. The majority of this burden can be located in the 
developing world where most of the projected increase will occur. Yet health 
systems are least prepared to meet this challenge in these countries. At the 
same time, there are effective interventions for road traffic injuries being 
implemented in the developed world. An extensive review of the literature 
reveals more than 16 different interventions in four categories that have been 
implemented. Renewed testing of these and new interventions will take both time 
and funds--resources that are scarce in developing countries. As a result, it is 
imperative to study the effectiveness of those interventions already tested and 
attempt to evaluate their potential implementation in developing countries.
METHOD: Literature review to identify effective interventions and the magnitude 
of the effects.
RESULTS: Four broad classes of interventions can be identified from the 
literature; health education/awareness, legislation, product design and 
environmental modifications.
CONCLUSION: The issues for the developing countries are affordable, 
infrastructure and sociocultural in implementation of these strategies. The road 
traffic injuries are also underreported and hence under represented at the 
priority setting stage. Road safety should be high on the agenda as it can save 
a lot of lives and disability. Public health professionals should assess and 
advocate road safety in developing countries.

PMID: 12073714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Eur J Public Health. 2002 Jun;12(2):145-51. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/12.2.145.

Smoking-related costs among 25 to 59 year-old males in a 19-year individual 
follow-up.

Kiiskinen U(1), Vartiainen E, Puska P, Pekurinen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Disability, National Public Health Institute (KTL), 
Mannerheimintie 166, FIN-00300 Helsinki, Finland. Urpo.Kiiskinen@ktl.fi

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the health care expenditure and productivity losses due 
to smoking.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study of a random population sample of 5,247 men 
aged 25-59 years from the provinces of Kuopio and North Karelia in eastern 
Finland. Subjects initially surveyed in 1972 were linked to a set of national 
registers through their social security identification numbers and followed for 
19 years. The difference in the number of life years and work years lost, the 
costs of drugs and hospitalization, and the value of productivity lost due to 
disability and premature mortality between smokers, former smokers and 
never-smokers was analysed.
RESULTS: The difference in mean life expectancy between current smokers and 
never-smokers was 3.0 years, and the difference in mean lost work time was 2.6 
years over the 19 years of follow-up. Between current smokers and former 
smokers, the difference in mean life expectancy was 1.8 years, and the 
difference in mean lost work time was 1.6 years. The mean difference between a 
current smoker and a never-smoker in health service costs was [symbol: see text] 
2,900, and the difference in mean total costs was [symbol: see text] 69,300 (an 
increase of 86%). No difference in mean health care costs between current 
smokers and former-smokers was found, while the difference in mean total cost 
was [symbol: see text] 44,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Smokers incurred excess costs in terms of both direct health care 
expenditure and indirect productivity losses in comparison to the never-smoking 
population. Most importantly, quitting smoking could save at least 60% of the 
losses related to excess mortality and disability of smokers.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/12.2.145
PMID: 12073754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Psychosomatics. 2002 May-Jun;43(3):213-20. doi: 10.1176/appi.psy.43.3.213.

Spirituality, religion, and depression in the terminally ill.

Nelson CJ(1), Rosenfeld B, Breitbart W, Galietta M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Long Island University, Brooklyn, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study examined the impact of spirituality and religiosity on 
depressive symptom severity in a sample of terminally ill patients with cancer 
and AIDS.
METHODS: One hundred sixty-two patients were recruited from palliative-care 
facilities (hospitals and specialized nursing facilities), all of whom had a 
life expectancy <6 months. The primary variables used in this study were the 
FACIT Spiritual Well-Being Scale, a religiosity index similar to those used in 
previous research, the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), the Karnofsky 
Performance Rating Scale, the Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale, and the 
Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Questionnaire.
RESULTS: A strong negative association was observed between the FACIT Spiritual 
Well-Being scale and the HDRS, but no such relationship was found for 
religiosity, because more religious individuals had somewhat higher scores on 
the HDRS. Similar patterns were observed for the FACIT subscales, finding a 
strong negative association between the meaning and peace subscale (which 
corresponds to the more existential aspects of spirituality) and HDRS scores, 
whereas a positive, albeit nonsignificant, association was observed for the 
faith subscale (which corresponds more closely to religiosity).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the beneficial aspects of religion may 
be primarily those that relate to spiritual well-being rather than to religious 
practices per se. Implications for clinical interventions and palliative-care 
practice are discussed.
