
DOI: 10.1176/appi.psy.43.3.213
PMID: 12075036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Biogerontology. 2002;3(3):183-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1015603410174.

Molecular chaperones and the process of cellular immortalization in vitro.

Krøll J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Blekinge County Hospital, Karlskrona, 
Sweden; Present address: Godthåbsvej 111, 3th, DK-2000, Frederiksberg, Denmark. 
krollj@danbbs.dk

It is suggested that the chaperone-activity of the SV40 T protein is responsible 
for the first step in the process of cellular immortalization in vitro: the 
extension of life span of most transfected cells. Further that an additional 
up-regulation of selected molecular chaperones is causal in the second step of 
the process: the rare acquisition of an unlimited cell division potential. 
Possibly the molecular chaperones are evolution facilitators, enabling the 
immortalization of primary cells in vitro, as well as the evolution of longevity 
in species.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015603410174
PMID: 12075137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2002 May-Jun;36(3):223-9. doi: 
10.1177/153857440203600311.

A comparison of patch angioplasty and stenting for axillary venous stenoses of 
thrombosed hemodialysis grafts.

Lombardi JV(1), Dougherty MJ, Veitia N, Somal J, Calligaro KD.

Author information:
(1)Section on Vascular Surgery, Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
Doclom@hotmail.com

The efficacy of balloon angioplasty with stent placement is compared to surgical 
patch angioplasty for thrombosed upper arm hemodialysis grafts with stenotic 
lesions at the venous anastomosis. Patients with thrombosed hemodialysis grafts 
terminating at the axillary vein were reviewed. Thirty-eight stents were placed 
after thrombectomy and venous balloon angioplasty in 26 patients. Fifteen 
case-matched controls underwent 23 polytetrafluoroethylene patch angioplasties 
for similar lesions. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used for statistical 
comparison. Primary patency for stent placement compared with patch angioplasty 
was not statistically different at any time through 1-year follow-up (37% vs 55% 
at 3 months, 25% vs 45% at 6 months, and 25% vs 15% at 12 months, respectively; 
p = 0.37). Secondary patency rates were slightly better for patch angioplasty 
compared with stent placement (78% vs 59% at 3 months, 78% vs 48% at 6 months, 
and 54% vs 32% at 12 months, respectively) however these differences were not 
statistically significant (p = 0.13). There was no difference in complication 
rates between groups. Sustained patency is poor for both angioplasty with stent 
placement and surgical patch angioplasty when revising thrombosed dialysis 
grafts with anastomotic axillary vein stenosis. These data suggest slightly 
better patency for the routine use of patch angioplasty for these lesions. 
However, the endovascular approach appears to be a reasonable alternative when 
surgical exposure is difficult.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440203600311
PMID: 12075389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol Ther. 2002 Apr;7(2):117-29. doi: 
10.1177/107424840200700208.

Diabetes, heart rate, and mortality.

Singh N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare 
System, Los Angeles, CA 90073, USA.

A large body of evidence indicates that a persistently high heart rate is 
associated with a significant risk for higher mortality and sudden death in 
individuals with a variety cardiovascular disorders, as well as in the general 
population. Heart rates elevated beyond a certain threshold have been found to 
be a risk factor for mortality in patients with hypertension, in survivors of 
myocardial infarction, and in patients with impaired cardiac function. 
Conversely, a naturally slow heart rate, or one that is slow by virtue of 
sympathetic blockade induced by pharmacologic agents, may result in longer 
survival. This is particularly evident in the case of beta-adrenergic blocking 
drugs, especially in patients after myocardial infarction and in those with 
acute as well as chronic cardiac failure, a syndrome in which there is a complex 
neurohormonal disturbance with elevated heart rate. Persistently elevated heart 
rate is also a feature of diabetes mellitus associated with autonomic 
neuropathy. Whether this also constitutes an independent risk factor for sudden 
and augmented mortality is not well defined. In this review, the data on the 
role of increased heart rate as a risk factor for mortality are examined in the 
context of other factors that may have therapeutic implications.

DOI: 10.1177/107424840200700208
PMID: 12075400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2002;(2):CD001323. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001323.

Surgical interventions for age-related cataract.

Snellingen T(1), Evans JR, Ravilla T, Foster A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tromso, ISM UiTo, Tromso, 
Troms, Norway, 9037. torkel.snellingen@ism.uit.no

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006;(4):CD001323.

BACKGROUND: Cataract is the major cause of global blindness, accounting for 40 
to 80% of all blindness in developing countries. The number of people blind from 
cataract is expected to rise due to the changing age distribution and increasing 
life expectancy. There is currently no proven intervention to prevent cataract 
and surgery is the only form of treatment.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to compare the effects of different 
surgical interventions for age-related cataract.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register - 
CENTRAL/CCTR, which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group specialised 
register (Cochrane Library Issue 3 2001), MEDLINE (1966 to August 2001), EMBASE 
(1980 to September 2001), the reference lists of identified trials, and we 
contacted investigators and experts in the field for details of published and 
unpublished trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials evaluating surgical 
treatment for people with age-related cataract.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two reviewers independently extracted data and 
discrepancies were resolved by discussion. Where appropriate, relative risks, 
odds ratios and weighted mean differences were summarised after assessing 
heterogeneity between the studies. We used a fixed effect model due to the low 
number of trials in each comparison.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified six trials that randomised a total of 7828 people. 
Phacoemulsification gave a better visual outcome than extracapsular surgery and 
gave a similar average cost per procedure in one trial conducted in the UK. 
Extracapsular surgery with posterior chamber lens implant and intracapsular 
surgery with or without an anterior chamber intraocular lens implant gave 
acceptable visual outcomes at 12 to 24 months after surgery. In three large 
trials in south Asia, best-corrected visual acuity of less than 6/60 ranged from 
0.5 to 4%. Higher rates of poor outcome were observed in a multicentre study 
with 19 surgeons compared to a single-centre study with two surgeons.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: This review provides evidence from one randomised 
controlled trial that phacoemulsification gives a better visual outcome than 
extracapsular extraction with sutures. However, this trial was conducted in a 
developed country specialised hospital setting and extrapolation to other 
settings must be made with caution. This review also found evidence that 
extracapsular cataract extraction with a posterior chamber lens implant provides 
better visual outcome than intracapsular extraction with aphakic glasses. This 
finding is also based on the results of a single trial. The long term effects of 
posterior capsular opacification need to be assessed in larger populations. The 
data in the review suggest that intracapsular extraction with an anterior 
chamber lens implant is an effective alternative to intracapsular extraction 
with aphakic glasses, with similar safety. Further data from developing regions 
are needed to compare all aspects of intraocular lens surgery with the three 
main surgical procedures - intracapsular extraction with an anterior chamber 
lens, extracapsular surgery with a posterior chamber lens with or without 
sutures.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001323
PMID: 12076405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Lancet. 2002 Jun 8;359(9322):2030-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08826-8.

Time to right the wrongs: improving basic health care in Nigeria.

Hargreaves S(1).

Author information:
(1)The Lancet, 32 Jamestown Road, London NW1 7BY, UK. salhargreaves@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Nov 16;360(9345):1608-9.
    Lancet. 2002 Nov 16;360(9345):1609.

Nigeria, once heralded as the beacon of Africa, has fallen somewhat short of 
this potential. Years of kleptocratic repressive dictators and military rule, 
coupled with widespread corruption, have resulted in large-scale neglect and 
deterioration of public services. Nowhere is this more apparent than within the 
health sector. Government-run health-care services barely function: half the 
population are unvaccinated for routine diseases, and a burgeoning epidemic of 
HIV/AIDS, only now being adequately addressed, leaves 3.5 million already 
infected and without access to the most basic of care. A poorly structured 
health service that relies on vertical programmes for HIV, tuberculosis, and 
malaria, means that coordination is chaotic, and already scant resources fail to 
reach the lower levels in which they are needed most. I visited Nigeria in 
October, 2001, with Médecins Sans Frontières, a humanitarian aid organisation 
that has been working in Nigeria since 1996. I witnessed the poor level of 
health care in Nigeria for myself--a country that is more than capable of 
providing effective services--and concluded that, even now, political priorities 
are being put ahead of the population's basic needs. The challenges to the new 
civilian government are monumental, and it is yet to show any solid commitment 
to improving the health of Africa's biggest nation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)08826-8
PMID: 12076574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Ann Readapt Med Phys. 2002 Jun;45(6):257-64. doi:
10.1016/s0168-6054(02)00213-1.

[Feasability of a back school assessment programme].

[Article in French]

Roques CF(1), Felez A, Marque P, Maupas E, Chatain M, Lazorthes Y.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine physique et de réadaptation, centre hospitalier 
universitaire, 31403 cedex 4, Toulouse, France. 
christian-francois.roques@wanadoo.fr

OBJECTIVES: Testing the feasability of a back school assessment programme in two 
populations of people suffering with chronic low back pain.
MATERIAL: Twenty-nine patients were randomly included in a chronic low back pain 
assessment programme (15 patients waiting for back school and 14 patients after 
back school).
METHODS: The programme was made of the measure of the age, the sex, the body 
mass index, the pain (VAS, St Antoine Hospitals Pain Questionnaire - SAPQ), the 
anxiety, the depression, the RIII nociceptive reflex, the fingertip-floor 
distance, the strength of the flexors and of the extensors of the lumbar spine 
(CybexR 6000 isocinetic dynamometer), the lumbar function (EIFEL, Dougados), the 
Dallas self-questionnaire. The Back School Education programme was made of five 
sessions (information, ergonomics, extension exercises).
RESULTS: Comparing the two populations we did not observe significant 
differences concerning the age, the body mass index, the anxiety and depression 
levels, the pain (VAS, SAPA, RIII nociceptive reflex), the lumbar stiffness, the 
lumbar disability, the quality of life; the patients who had achieved back 
school had a peak torque of the flexors and a ratio flexors/extensors 
significantly lower. Comparing men and women we observed significant differences 
in the SAPQ and the muscles strength. The SAPQ was correlated with the 
depression and anxiety levels, the lumbar disability, the peak torque of the 
flexors. The VAS was correlated with the age, the lumbar stiffness, the 
depression level, the peak torque of the flexors. The RIII nociceptive reflex 
was correlated with the ratio flexors/extensors.
CONCLUSION: This study present some biases but this objective assessment of 
chronic low back pain appeared as feasible. The pain must be investigated in 
term of intensity, expression, alleviation. The impairment of the flexors 
muscles in women and after back school has to be confirmed. The different tests 
are relevant to determinate the efficiency of the back school programmes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-6054(02)00213-1
PMID: 12076852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Am J Epidemiol. 2002 Jul 1;156(1):11-21. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwf001.

All-cause and cause-specific death rates by educational status for two million 
people in two American Cancer Society cohorts, 1959-1996.

Steenland K(1), Henley J, Thun M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, OH 
45226-1998, USA. nsteenland@cdc.gov

Low socioeconomic status is associated with high mortality, but the extent to 
which socioeconomic status affects particular diseases and whether socioeconomic 
status effects have changed over time are uncertain. The authors used education 
as a marker for socioeconomic status in a study of two large American Cancer 
Society cohorts (follow-up, 1959-1996). Low education was associated with higher 
death rates in both cohorts from all causes and most specific causes, except 
breast cancer and external causes among women. Life expectancy in the more 
recent cohort was 4.8 years shorter for men and 2.7 years shorter for women for 
the least versus the most educated. The inverse relation between education and 
mortality was strongest for coronary heart disease, lung cancer, diabetes, and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; moderate for colorectal cancer, external 
causes (men only), and stroke; weak for prostate cancer; and reversed for 
external causes among women. The direction of a weak gradient for breast cancer 
differed for those with and without prevalent breast cancer at baseline. 
Adjustment for conventional risk factors, probable intermediate variables 
between education and mortality, diminished but did not eliminate the observed 
educational/mortality gradients. Temporal trends showed increasing mortality 
differences by education for coronary heart disease, diabetes, and lung cancer 
for women.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwf001
PMID: 12076884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2002 Jul;179(1):215-21. doi: 10.2214/ajr.179.1.1790215.

Children with suspected craniosynostosis: a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
diagnostic strategies.

Medina LS(1), Richardson RR, Crone K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Health Outcomes, Policy and Economics (HOPE) Center, 
Brain Institute, Miami Children's Hospital, 3100 S.W. 62 Ave., Miami, FL 33155, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to evaluate the clinical and economic impact of three 
evaluation strategies in children at different risks of craniosynostosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic and cost-effectiveness model was 
constructed to compare three evaluation in strategies in children with suspected 
synostosis: no imaging, radiography (if abnormal, followed by three-dimensional 
CT [3D CT]), and 3D CT. Three risk groups were analyzed on the basis of the 
prevalence (pretest probability) of disease: low (completly healthy children; 
prevalence, 34/100,000), intermediate (healthy children with head deformity; 
prevalence, 1/115), and high risk (children with syndromic craniofacial 
disorders [i.e., Crouzon's syndrome or Apert's syndrome]; prevalence, 9-10/10). 
Test performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the evaluation strategies was 
obtained from the literature. Costs (not charge) estimates were obtained from 
the hospital cost-accounting database and from the Medicaid fee schedule.
RESULTS: In the low-risk group, the radiographic and 3D CT strategies resulted 
in a cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of more than $560,000. In 
the intermediate-risk group, the radiographic strategy resulted in a cost per 
QALY gained of $54,600. Three-dimensional CT was more effective than the two 
other strategies but at a higher cost-hence, with a cost per QALY gained of 
$374,200. In the high-risk group, 3D CT was the most effective strategy with a 
cost per QALY gained of $33,800. Less experienced radiologists and poor-quality 
studies increased the evaluation cost per QALY gained for all of the risk groups 
because of decreased effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Radiologic screening of completely healthy children (low risk) for 
synostosis is not warranted because of the high cost per QALY gained of the 
radiographic and 3D CT strategies. In healthy children with head deformity 
(intermediate risk), the radiographic strategy had a reasonable cost per QALY 
gained. Three-dimensional CT was more effective but had a high cost per QALY 
gained. In children with syndromic craniofacial disorders (high risk), 3D CT was 
the most effective strategy and had a reasonable cost per QALY gained. Selection 
of children with suspected craniosynostosis based on their risk group and use of 
the most appropriate evaluation strategy could maximize clinical and economic 
outcomes for these patients.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.179.1.1790215
PMID: 12076939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Mol Cell Biol. 2002 Jul;22(14):5157-72. doi:
10.1128/MCB.22.14.5157-5172.2002.

A two-stage, p16(INK4A)- and p53-dependent keratinocyte senescence mechanism 
that limits replicative potential independent of telomere status.

Rheinwald JG(1), Hahn WC, Ramsey MR, Wu JY, Guo Z, Tsao H, De Luca M, Catricalà 
C, O'Toole KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
JRheinwald@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

With increasing frequency during serial passage in culture, primary human 
keratinocytes express p16(INK4A) (p16) and undergo senescence arrest. 
Keratinocytes engineered to express hTERT maintain long telomeres but typically 
are not immortalized unless, by mutation or other heritable event, they avoid or 
greatly reduce p16 expression. We have confirmed that keratinocytes undergo 
p16-related senescence during growth in culture, whether in the fibroblast 
feeder cell system or in the specialized K-sfm medium formulation, and that this 
mechanism can act as a barrier to immortalization following hTERT expression. We 
have characterized the p16-related arrest mechanism more precisely by 
interfering specifically with several regulators of cell cycle control. 
Epidermal, oral mucosal, corneal limbal, and conjunctival keratinocytes were 
transduced to express a p16-insensitive mutant cdk4 (cdk4(R24C)), to abolish p16 
control, and/or a dominant negative mutant p53 (p53DD), to abolish p53 function. 
Expression of either cdk4(R24C) or p53DD alone had little effect on life span, 
but expression of both permitted cells to divide 25 to 43 population doublings 
(PD) beyond their normal limit. Keratinocytes from a p16(+/-) individual 
transduced to express p53DD alone displayed a 31-PD life span extension 
associated with selective growth of variants that had lost the wild-type p16 
allele. Cells in which both p53 and p16 were nonfunctional divided rapidly 
during their extended life span but experienced telomere erosion and ultimately 
ceased growth with very short telomeres. Expression of hTERT in these cells 
immortalized them. Keratinocytes engineered to express cdk4(R24C) and hTERT but 
not p53DD did not exhibit an extended life span. Rare immortal variants 
exhibiting p53 pathway defects arose from them, however, indicating that the 
p53-dependent component of keratinocyte senescence is telomere independent. 
Mutational loss of p16 and p53 has been found to be a frequent early event in 
the development of squamous cell carcinoma. Our results suggest that such 
mutations endow keratinocytes with extended replicative potential which may 
serve to increase the probability of neoplastic progression.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.22.14.5157-5172.2002
PMCID: PMC139780
PMID: 12077343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Zhongguo Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi.
1998;16(6):449-53.

[Evaluation of the effect of causes of death of advanced schistosomiasis 
patients on the life span of population by using potential years of life lost 
analysis].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang D(1), Ma X, Cai L.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Municipal Institute of Parasitic Disease Control and Research, 
Shanghai 200336.

AIM: To evaluate the effect of the causes of death of advanced schistosomiasis 
patients on the life span of population in an area where schistosomiasis had 
been under control by applying the indicators of potential years of life lost 
(PYLL) and rate of PYLL (PYLLR).
METHODS: Using the formula of calculation of PYLL and PYLLR, the causes of death 
of 487 patients of advanced schistosomiasis in 3 previously endemic townships of 
Shanghai suburb.
RESULTS: Of 487 cases who died between 1955 and 1995, the PYLLR of all causes of 
death was 256.3@1000. The main causes of death were hepatic failure 
(100.3@1000), liver carcinoma (43.4@1000) and cancer of other organs 
(24.8@1000). In the 1960s, the PYLLR of advanced schistosomiasis complicated 
with hepatic failure and upper digestive tract hemorrhage was 222.2@1000 and 
34.5@1000, the PYLLR of the complications of schistosomal liver cirrhosis, 
hepatic failure and hemorrhage accounted for 67.5% of the total PYLLR, being 
apparently higher in the non-splenectomy group than in the splenctomty group. 
After the schistosomiasis was under control, both PYLL and PYLLR decreased 
linearly. As compared with the 1960s, the PYLLR of all causes of death and the 
causes of death of the complications of schistosomal liver cirrhosis in the 
1990s has declined by 62.9% and 83.2%, respectively, the PYLLR of upper 
digestive tract hemorrhage was found only 0.3@1000 in the last 5 years.
CONCLUSION: PYLL and PYLLR analysis could be used to quantify the effect of 
complications of advanced schistosomiasis and other causes of death on the life 
span of population.

PMID: 12078292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2002 Apr-Sep;42(2-3):269-82.

The required number of physicians: is it an optimal figure?

Forgacs I(1).

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.

Apart from the developing countries in which the number of physicians is 
extremely low, the number of physicians in the different countries shows a wide 
range even if it is comparing with the GDP or even with the number of nurses. 
According WHO data there are more than 500 physicians/100,000 inhabitants in 
Cuba and in Italy; more than 400 in Belarus and Norway, or in Spain and Georgia; 
more than 300 in 22 countries among them Belgium, France, Germany and Greece, 
Sweden, Switzerland, or Bulgaria, Czech, Hungary, Slovakia, Lithuania, etc. The 
number of doctors is below 300/100,000 inhabitants for example in such rich 
countries as the Netherlands, and the USA, and below 200 in the United Kingdom 
or in Japan. There is no correlation between the GDP and the number of doctors, 
as well as between the average life expectancy (or GBD, DALY, DALE) and the 
number of doctors. (On the other hand there is good correlation between GDP and 
life expectancy.) There is no correlation between GP-s and specialists, but it 
may be a weak correlation between the number of hospital beds and the number of 
doctors. It is difficult to find an optimal doctor/nurse ratio among the 
different countries; nevertheless the definition of "nurses" has a different 
meaning in the different countries. The burden of diseases, or the "patients" 
load" is also not an objective reference point, because the more the doctors, 
the more the patients. In the different countries there are different norms of 
the physicians' performances mainly decided by the health insurance funds. The 
different reimbursement systems, as the "per capita" at the GP-s, or the DRG at 
the hospital care, or the point-based remuneration at the specialist care are 
the real rate limiting factors for the number of physicians, which are not 
necessarily adequate to the professional requirements.

PMID: 12078328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Qual Saf Health Care. 2002 Mar;11(1):32-8; discussion 38-9. doi: 
10.1136/qhc.11.1.32.

Development and preliminary evaluation of a clinical guidance programme for the 
decision about prophylactic oophorectomy in women undergoing a hysterectomy.

Pell I(1), Dowie J, Clarke A, Kennedy A, Bhavnani V.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Epidemiology Unit, London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To develop a decision analysis based and computerised clinical 
guidance programme (CGP) that provides patient specific guidance on the decision 
whether or not to undergo a prophylactic oophorectomy to reduce the risk of 
subsequent ovarian cancer and to undertake a preliminary pilot and evaluation.
SUBJECTS: Women who had already agreed to have a hysterectomy who otherwise had 
no ovarian pathology.
SETTING: Oophorectomy decision consultation at the outpatient or pre-admission 
clinic.
METHODS: A CGP was developed with advice from gynaecologists and patient groups, 
incorporating a set of Markov models within a decision analytical framework to 
evaluate the benefits of undergoing a prophylactic oophorectomy or not on the 
basis of quality adjusted life expectancy, life expectancy, and for varying 
durations of hormone replacement therapy. Sensitivity analysis and preliminary 
testing of the CGP were undertaken to compare its overall performance with 
established guidelines and practice. A small convenience sample of women invited 
to use the CGP were interviewed, the interviews were taped and transcribed, and 
a thematic analysis was undertaken.
RESULTS: The run time of the programme was 20 minutes, depending on the use of 
opt outs to default values. The CGP functioned well in preliminary testing. 
Women were able to use the programme and expressed overall satisfaction with it. 
Some had reservations about the computerised formal and some were surprised at 
the specificity of the guidance given.
CONCLUSIONS: A CGP can be developed for a complex healthcare decision. It can 
give evidence-based health guidance which can be adjusted to account for 
individual risk factors and reflects a patient's own values and preferences 
concerning health outcomes. Future decision aids and support systems need to be 
developed and evaluated in a way which takes account of the variation in 
patients' preferences for inclusion in the decision making process.

DOI: 10.1136/qhc.11.1.32
PMCID: PMC1743581
PMID: 12078367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2002;160:234-9. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-59410-6_27.

Radiotherapy of skin tumors.

Panizzon RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The incidence of cancers of the skin is increasing, as is life expectancy among 
most of the population. Besides surgery, all skin cancers can be treated with 
radiotherapy, with excellent results. Unfortunately, both less training and less 
equipment are available than earlier, which means that dermatologists also have 
less experience in this field. We would like to propose radiotherapy for 
medium-sized or larger lesions, especially on the face in elderly people. Good 
indications are keratoacanthomas, extensive actinic keratoses, Bowen's disease 
including erythroplasia of Queyrat, basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas, but 
also lentigo maligna and lentigo maligna melanomas. These tumors can be treated 
in a curative way. Excellent results of palliative X-ray therapy are achieved in 
Kaposi's sarcoma and in lymphomas, and also in Merkel cell tumors. After 100 
years of treatment of skin cancers by radiotherapy, dermatologists should not 
forget that if appropriate principles are followed and precautions are taken, 
X-ray treatment is still a safe and effective method.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-59410-6_27
PMID: 12079218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Proc Biol Sci. 2002 Jul 7;269(1498):1317-23. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2002.2021.

On the evolution of virulence and the relationship between various measures of 
mortality.

Day T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Toronto, 25 Harbord Street, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada M5S 3G5. dayt@zoo.utoronto.ca

Smallpox causes roughly 20% mortality whereas chickenpox causes less than 0.1%. 
Most 'verbal' (i.e. non-mathematical) discussions using a mortality definition 
of virulence would therefore label smallpox as more virulent. Indeed, the 
virulence of many diseases is measured using such case mortalities, chi, or 
related measures such as expected host lifespan, T, or lethal dose, LD(x). But 
chi, T and LD(x) are only indirectly related to parasite-induced instantaneous 
mortality rate, alpha, which is the mortality measure used in much of the theory 
developed to explain virulence evolution. Here I point out that relatively 
deadly pathogens can actually have lower values of alpha than benign pathogens, 
demonstrating that alpha does not, by itself, reflect the extent to which a 
parasite causes host mortality. I present mathematical relationships between 
alpha and chi, T and LD(x), and use these to demonstrate that predictions about 
virulence evolution can be qualitatively altered depending upon which measure is 
used as the definition of virulence. Two simple examples are presented to 
illustrate this point, one of which demonstrates that the well-cited prediction 
that virulence should evolve to be higher when disease-independent host 
mortality increases need not hold. This prediction has been made in terms of 
parasite-induced instantaneous mortality, alpha, but if virulence is measured 
using case mortality (or T or LD(x)) then this prediction can easily be 
reversed. Theoretical and empirical researchers must use compatible mortality 
measures before a productive exchange between the two can take place, and it is 
suggested that case mortality (or lethal dose) is best suited as a single 
(mortality) measure of parasite virulence.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2002.2021
PMCID: PMC1691045
PMID: 12079653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Jul;56(7):488-91. doi:
10.1136/jech.56.7.488.

The meaning and goals of equity in health.

Chang WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Canadian VIGOUR Centre Research Group, Department of Medicine, 214 Heritage 
Research Centre, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2S2. 
weiching-chang@ualberta.ca

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.7.488
PMCID: PMC1732207
PMID: 12080154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Tunis Med. 2002 Feb;80(2):57-64.

[Assessment of cancer incidence in Tunisia 1993-1997].

[Article in French]

Hsairi M(1), Fakhfakh R, Ben Abdallah M, Jlidi R, Sellami A, Zheni S, Hmissa S, 
Achour N, Nacef T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Anatomo-pathologie, CHU Habib Bourguiba Sfax.

The objective of this study is to estimate in Tunisia on a national scale the 
incidence of the main cancerous localizations for the period 1993-1997 while 
taking results of registers of the cancer of the region of the North, Sousse and 
Sfax as a basis. After having verified the relation of exponential type between 
the incidence of cancers and the life expectancy at the birth (Evo) in a certain 
number of country we extrapolated levels of governorates incidence included in 
registers of the North, Sousse and Sfax to the other governorates while taking 
the similarity of the Evo level as a basis. The incidence rate of in all 
localizations are 100.11/100.000 for male and 86.4/100.000 for female. The main 
cancerous localizations for male are the lung (20.8/100.000) the bladder 
(10.7/100.000), the cutaneous cancers (7.2/100.000) and the prostate 
(6.1/100.000). For female the main localization are the breast (19.7/100.000), 
skin (5.8/100.000) and the cervix uteri (4.8,100.000). These results illustrate 
the interest of tobacco control, screening of the breast cancer of and cervix 
uteri cancer, as components fundamental of the cancer control.

PMID: 12080555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 1999 Jan;13(1):18-20.

[Reconstruction and repair after resection of soft tissue sarcoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang R(1), Teng S, Ma Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor, Tianjin Cancer Hospital, Tianjin, 
P. R. China 300060.

OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the importance of reconstruction and repair after 
resection of soft tissue sarcoma.
METHODS: From November 1990 to November 1996, in 107 cases of soft tissue 
sarcoma 32 cases had received various reconstructive or reparative operations. 
Among the 32 cases, 4 cases were primary sarcomas and 28 cases were recurrent 
sarcomas. In surgical grading, 3 cases were of I B, 3 cases of II A and 26 cases 
of II B. Radical resection was performed in 13 cases, widen local resection in 
17 cases and local excision in 2 cases. After operation, 13 cases received 
chemotherapy and 7 cases received radiotherapy. Reconstruction of blood vessels 
was performed in 3 cases, reconstruction of kinetic function in 16 cases, and 
repair of defect was carried out in 23 cases.
RESULTS: Thirty patients were followed up for 4 months to 6 years and 6 months. 
The clinical results showed that the local control rate of sarcoma was 80%, 
limb-salvage rate after reconstruction of blood vessels was 100%, the excellent 
and good rate after reconstruction of kinetic function was 87.5%, and the 
survival rate of the tissue flap of transplantation and transposition was 96%.
CONCLUSION: It was concluded that the reconstruction and repair after resection 
of soft tissue sarcoma was the extension of operative treatment, and was very 
important in lowering the recurrence rate and improving the life quality of the 
sufferings.

PMID: 12080751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 2002 Mar;96(2):181-9. doi:
10.1179/000349802125000718.

Excess mortality associated with blindness in the onchocerciasis focus of the 
Mbam Valley, Cameroon.

Pion SD(1), Kamgno J, Demanga-Ngangue, Boussinesq M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Mixte IRD-CPC d'Epidémiologie et de Santé Publique, Yaoundé, 
Cameroon. s.pion@netcourrier.com

The association between blindness, mortality and nutritional status was 
investigated in a retrospective cohort study in villages of central Cameroon 
where onchocerciasis is hyper-endemic. Overall, 101 blind subjects and 101 
non-blind controls matched with the blind for age, sex and (generally) village 
of residence were followed for 10 years. Blindness gave rise to a significant 
increase in mortality (relative risk = 2.3; P = 0.012), the life expectancy of 
the blind adults being reduced by 4 years compared with that of their controls. 
For a given age, excess mortality was found to be associated with a late onset 
of blindness. The causes of death were similar for the blind and the controls 
but blind subjects had relatively low body mass indices, which may lead to 
relatively early fatal disease outcomes. These results are similar to those 
obtained in other parts of Africa and emphasise, once more, the demographic 
impact of blindness in developing countries.

DOI: 10.1179/000349802125000718
PMID: 12080979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Endocr J. 2002 Apr;49(2):181-8. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.49.181.

A case of von Hippel-Lindau disease with bilateral pheochromocytoma, renal cell 
carcinoma, pelvic tumor, spinal hemangioblastoma and primary 
hyperparathyroidism.

Arao T(1), Okada Y, Tanikawa T, Inatomi H, Shuin T, Fujihira T, Yamashita H, 
Tanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, University of Occupational and 
Environmental Health, Japan, School of Medicine, Kitakyushu.

A rare case of von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease with bilateral pheochromocytomas, 
right renal cell carcinoma, right pelvic carcinoma, spinal hemangioblastoma and 
primary hyperparathyroidism is described. A 78-year-old woman had a history of 
hypertension from her forties. She suffered from headache and body weight loss. 
Abdominal CT revealed bilateral adrenal tumors and right external renal tumors 
enhanced in early stage. MIBG scintigraphy exhibited a high accumulation of 
tracer in both adrenal glands. On the basis of the radiographic findings and 
endocrinological results, the patient was diagnosed as having bilateral 
pheochromocytomas and right renal cell carcinoma. A bilateral adrenectomy was 
performed, followed by surgery for resection of the renal cell carcinoma. The 
other resected right kidney showed a clear cell subtype that was determined to 
be renal cell carcinoma, and proved that the pelvic tumor was transient cell 
carcinoma. Spinal MRI showed spinal hemangioblastoma. von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) 
gene mutation for the patient was found. We diagnosed the patient as VHL because 
of the existence of spinal hemangioma and a VHL disease gene. Parathyroid echo 
revealed a hypoechoic space on the back of the left lobe, and serum calcium and 
intact PTH to be elevated. The patient was diagnosed as primary 
hyperparathyroidism. We report the first case of a patient with VHL disease 
complicated with bilateral pheochromocytomas, right renal cell carcinoma, right 
renal pelvic carcinoma and primary hyperparathyroidism. The life expectancy of 
affected individuals has been less than 50 years. Since the prognosis may be 
improved by an early diagnosis, affected individuals with VHL complexes should 
undergo cranial, spinal MRI and abdomen CT. The families may benefit from 
presymptomatic detection of affected gene carriers and the exclusion of at-risk 
family members by negative test results.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.49.181
PMID: 12081237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. BJU Int. 2002 Jul;90(2):162-73. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2002.2822.x.

Patterns and trends in prostate cancer incidence, survival, prevalence and 
mortality. Part I: international comparisons.

Quinn M(1), Babb P.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Intelligence Centre, Office for National Statistics, London, 
UK. mike.quinn@ons.gov.uk

The international patterns and trends in prostate cancer incidence, survival, 
prevalence and mortality were examined. Age-standardized incidence and death 
rates among men in a variety of countries worldwide were obtained from various 
sources, survival rates from European sources and elsewhere, and prevalence 
estimates from the EUROPREVAL study. Results from many published studies were 
summarized. The incidence of prostate cancer varies widely around the world, 
with by far the highest rates in the USA and Canada. There has been a gradual 
increase in the incidence of prostate cancer since the 1960s in many countries 
and in most continents; there were large increases in the late 1980s and early 
1990s in the USA, but increases have also occurred in countries with 
comparatively low incidence, e.g. India. Survival from prostate cancer improved 
during the 1970s and 1980s; further increases in the 1990s may be largely a 
result of earlier diagnosis. There were wide differences in survival across 
Europe, with rates in the UK well below the average, but all European rates were 
far below those in the USA. There was wide variation in the prevalence of 
prostate cancer in Europe; in some countries with high incidence and high 
life-expectancy, prostate cancers formed approximately 15% of all prevalent 
cancers in men. Mortality from prostate cancer has also increased in many 
countries, but to a lesser extent than incidence; this is consistent with the 
observed trends in survival. Mortality decreased slightly in the mid to late 
1990s in several countries, including the USA, Canada, England, France and 
Austria. Part of the apparent increases in the incidence of prostate cancer has 
been associated with diagnostic artefacts (particularly detecting preclinical 
tumours through the increased use of transurethral resection) which may also 
have had an effect on death certification through the incorrect attribution of 
prostate cancer as the underlying cause of death. However, the greatest effect 
on the registration of new cases of prostate cancer has been the increased 
availability of prostate specific antigen testing during the early- to 
mid-1990s. Possibly, in addition to the effect of attribution bias, the earlier 
diagnosis of prostate cancers has contributed to the recent slight decreases in 
mortality. However, this is unlikely to account for much of the reduction, given 
the slow development of the disease from onset to death. Changes in disease 
management are probably more important. There are many strong arguments against 
introducing population-based screening for prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2002.2822.x
PMID: 12081758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Bacteriol. 2002 Jul;184(14):3823-33. doi:
10.1128/JB.184.14.3823-3833.2002.

Analysis of DNA regulatory elements required for expression of the Legionella 
pneumophila icm and dot virulence genes.

Gal-Mor O(1), Zusman T, Segal G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, George S. Wise 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, Israel.

To investigate the regulation of the Legionella pneumophila icm and dot genes 
required for intracellular growth, a series of nine icm::lacZ fusions were 
constructed. These icm::lacZ fusions were found to have different levels of 
expression in L. pneumophila, and five of them were more highly expressed at 
stationary phase than at exponential phase. When the expression of these fusions 
in Escherichia coli was tested, all of them were found to be expressed but three 
of them had dramatic changes in their levels of expression in comparison to 
those in L. pneumophila. Site-directed and PCR random mutagenesis with these 
icm::lacZ fusions was used to identify DNA regulatory elements of icm genes. 
Four icm genes (icmT, icmP, icmQ, and icmM) that had low levels of expression in 
L. pneumophila were found to contain a 6-bp sequence (TATACT) essential for 
their expression. This sequence was shown by primer extension to serve as their 
-10 promoter elements. A similar sequence, which constitutes the -10 promoter 
elements of the icmV, icmW, and icmR genes which had high levels of expression 
in L. pneumophila, was also identified. In addition, regulatory elements that 
probably serve as binding sites for transcription regulators were found in these 
genes. Altogether, 12 regulatory elements, 7 of which constitute the -10 
promoter elements of the icm genes, were found. Even though all the icm and dot 
genes are part of one system required for L. pneumophila intracellular growth 
and even though their promoters are probably recognized by the vegetative sigma 
factor, it seems that they are subjected to different regulation mediated by 
several regulatory factors.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.184.14.3823-3833.2002
PMCID: PMC135176
PMID: 12081952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jul 9;99(14):9591-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.142675599.  Epub 2002 Jun 24.

The aging baboon: comparative demography in a non-human primate.

Bronikowski AM(1), Alberts SC, Altmann J, Packer C, Carey KD, Tatar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology and Genetics, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011, 
USA.

Why do closely related primate genera vary in longevity, and what does this 
teach us about human aging? Life tables of female baboons (Papio hamadryas) in 
two wild populations of East Africa and in a large captive population in San 
Antonio, Texas, provide striking similarities and contrasts to human mortality 
patterns. For captive baboons at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical 
Research, we estimate the doubling time of adult mortality rate as 4.8 years. 
Wild females in free-living populations in Tanzania and in Kenya showed doubling 
times of 3.5 and 3.8 years, respectively. Although these values are considerably 
faster than the estimates of 7-8 years for humans, these primates share a 
demographic feature of human aging: within each taxon populations primarily vary 
in the level of Gompertz mortality intercept (frailty) and vary little in the 
demographic rate of aging. Environmental and genetic factors within taxa appear 
to affect the level of frailty underlying senescence. In contrast, primate taxa 
are differentiated by rates of demographic aging, even if they cannot be 
characterized by species-specific lifespan.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.142675599
PMCID: PMC123185
PMID: 12082185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Public Health. 2002 May;116(3):145-50. doi: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900837.

The role of demographic surveillance systems (DSS) in assessing the health of 
communities: an example from rural Ethiopia.

Byass P(1), Berhane Y, Emmelin A, Kebede D, Andersson T, Högberg U, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå 
University, Sweden. peterbyass@aol.com

Longitudinal demographic surveillance systems (DSSs) in selected populations can 
provide important information in situations where routine health information is 
incomplete or absent, particularly in developing countries. The Butajira Rural 
Health Project is one such example, initiated in rural Ethiopia in 1987. DSSs 
rely on regular community-based surveillance as a means of vital event 
registration, among a sufficient population base to draw meaningful conclusions 
about rates and trends in relatively rare events such as maternal death. 
Enquiries into specific health problems can also then use this framework to 
quantify particular issues or evaluate interventions. Demographic 
characteristics and trends for a rural Ethiopian population over a 10-y period 
are presented as an illustration of the DSS approach, based on 336 000 
person-years observed. Overall life expectancy at birth was 50 y. Demographic 
parameters generally showed modest trends towards improvement over the 10-y 
period. The DSS approach is useful in characterising populations at the 
community level over a period of time, providing important information for 
health planning and intervention. Methodological issues underlying this approach 
need further exploration and development.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900837
PMID: 12082596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Public Health. 2002 May;116(3):160-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900832.

Survival in a cohort of social services placements in nursing and residential 
homes: factors associated with life expectancy and mortality.

Rothera IC(1), Jones R, Harwood R, Avery AJ, Waite J.

Author information:
(1)Section Of Old Age Psychiatry, Division of Psychiatry, Queen's Medical 
Centre, Nottingham, UK. ian.rothera@nottingham.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to examine the life expectancy of elderly people in 
nursing and residential care over a 20-month period and its relationship to 
specific risk factors. Using a retrospective cohort design, data obtained on 
1888 residents placed between 1 July 1997 and 30 April 1999 in residential, 
nursing and dual registered homes within Nottingham Health Authority boundaries 
were examined. Additional data on physical and mental disability at placement 
were available for 514 residents. Main outcome measures comprised survival rate 
overall, and in relation to gender, age, home type (nursing, residential or 
dual), source of placement (hospital or community) and various disability 
factors.One-year survival rates were: overall, 66%; nursing homes, 59%; dual 
homes, 58%; and residential homes 76%. Median survival in nursing homes was 541 
days, but was not reached in residential homes. Male gender, admission to 
nursing or dual registered homes, placement from hospital, decreased mobility 
and increased age were associated with decreased life expectancy. Although no 
association was found between length of survival and level of cognitive 
function, lack of cognitive impairment was associated with lower survival. In 
conclusion, mortality is high in nursing, dual and residential homes where life 
expectancy has been shown to be associated with gender, home type, origin of 
placement and mobility. Rates of survival are related to higher comorbidity and 
disability. Important data for planning and assessing care needs can be yielded 
through the analysis of mortality data.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900832
PMID: 12082598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Biotechniques. 2002 Jun;Suppl:70-2, 74, 76-7.

SNPstream UHT: ultra-high throughput SNP genotyping for pharmacogenomics and 
drug discovery.

Bell PA(1), Chaturvedi S, Gelfand CA, Huang CY, Kochersperger M, Kopla R, Modica 
F, Pohl M, Varde S, Zhao R, Zhao X, Boyce-Jacino MT, Yassen A.

Author information:
(1)Orchid BioSciences, Orchid Life Sciences, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA.

Erratum in
    Biotechniques. 2003 Mar;34(3):496.

Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping is playing an increasing role in 
genome mapping, pharmacogenetic studies, and drug discovery. To date, 
genome-wide scans and studies involving thousands of SNPs and samples have been 
hampered by the lack of a system that can perform genotyping with cost-effective 
throughput, accuracy, and reliability. To address this need, Orrhid has 
developed an automated, ultra-high throughput system, SNPstream UHT, which uses 
multiplexed PCR in conjunction with our next generation SNP-IT tag array single 
base extension genotyping technology The system employs oligonucleotide 
microarrays manufactured in a 384-well format on a novel glass-bottomed plate. 
Multiplexed PCR and genotyping are performed in homogeneous reactions, and assay 
results are read by direct two-color fluorescence on the SNPstream UHTArray 
Imager. The systems flexibility enables large projects involving thousands of 
SNPs and thousands of samples as well as small projects that have hundreds of 
SNPs and hundreds of samples to be done cost effectively. We have successfully 
demonstrated this system in greater than 1,000,000 genotyping assays with >96% 
of samples giving genotypes with >99% accuracy

PMID: 12083401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Neuro Oncol. 2002 Jul;4(3):179-86. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/4.3.179.

Prognostic significance of an apoptotic index and apoptosis/proliferation ratio 
for patients with high-grade astrocytomas.

Kuriyama H(1), Lamborn KR, O'Fallon JR, Iturria N, Sebo T, Schaefer PL, 
Scheithauer BW, Buckner JC, Kuriyama N, Jenkins RB, Israel MA.

Author information:
(1)The Preuss Laboratory for Molecular Neuro-Oncology, Brain Tumor Research 
Center, University of California-San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

We evaluated the association of spontaneous apoptosis and an 
apoptosis/proliferation index with survival to determine the potential of such 
measures to serve as predictive markers for patients with glioblastoma 
multiforme (GBM). We examined the extent of spontaneous apoptosis in tumors from 
newly diagnosed patients, 75 with GBM and 21 with anaplastic astrocytoma, who 
were entered on treatment protocols of the North Central Cancer Treatment Group. 
In the group of GBM patients, those with a higher apoptotic index tended to live 
longer ( P = 0.04; Cox proportional hazards model including performance score, 
age, and extent of resection in a multivariate model). We found that the 
apoptotic index values for anaplastic astrocytoma patients tended to be lower 
than those in the GBM patients, although with small sample sizes, the result was 
not statistically significant ( P = 0.1). We also examined expression of the 
Ki-67 cell proliferation antigen immunohistochemically using the MIB-1 
monoclonal antibody. Ki-67 expression did not provide additional information 
regarding the survival of patients with GBM. In this group of GBM patients, 
those patients with higher apoptotic index/proliferation ratios had a better 
prognosis than did those with a low ratio ( P < 0.021, same model as above). 
These findings suggest that both apoptosis and a cell death/cell proliferation 
ratio are associated with patient survival, and they may be useful for either 
the clinical evaluation of patients with GBM or the stratification of patients 
for treatment evaluation.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/4.3.179
PMCID: PMC1920640
PMID: 12084348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Am J Public Health. 2002 Jul;92(7):1054-5; discussion 1055. doi: 
10.2105/ajph.92.7.1054.

Misunderstanding the World Health Report 2000.

Hyder AA.

Comment on
