    Am J Public Health. 2002 Jan;92(1):30, 32-3.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.7.1054
PMCID: PMC1447183
PMID: 12084673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Jul;57(7):M470-2. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.7.m470.

The influence of intellectual disability on life expectancy.

Bittles AH(1), Petterson BA, Sullivan SG, Hussain R, Glasson EJ, Montgomery PD.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Ageing, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia. 
a.bittles@ecu.edu.au

BACKGROUND: To date, relatively few representative data have been available to 
health planners and advocacy groups on the life expectancy of people with 
intellectual disability. A study of trends in the survival profiles of people 
with intellectual disability was undertaken to assist in the planning of 
appropriate medical and support services.
METHODS: Since 1953, the Disability Services Commission of Western Australia has 
maintained a database of persons diagnosed with intellectual disability. The 
database was used to calculate survival probabilities on a total of 8724 
individuals, 7562 of whom were still alive at the time of sampling in December 
2000.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier survival plots showed a strong negative association 
between severity of intellectual disability and survival, with median life 
expectancies of 74.0, 67.6, and 58.6 years for people with mild, moderate, and 
severe levels of handicap. Significant negative associations also were observed 
with male gender, Indigenous Australian parentage, and individuals diagnosed 
with a specific genetic disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate a major and expanding increase in the service 
requirements of this aging, intellectually disabled population during the past 
two generations.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.7.m470
PMID: 12084811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Br J Cancer. 2002 May 20;86(10):1534-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600251.

Autologous cell vaccine as a post operative adjuvant treatment for high-risk 
melanoma patients (AJCC stages III and IV). The new American Joint Committee on 
Cancer.

Lotem M(1), Peretz T, Drize O, Gimmon Z, Ad El D, Weitzen R, Goldberg H, Ben 
David I, Prus D, Hamburger T, Shiloni E.

Author information:
(1)Sharett Institute of Oncology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, 
Israel 91120. lotem@isdn.net.il

This study evaluates the overall survival and disease free survival of melanoma 
patients that were treated with an autologous melanoma cell vaccine, 
administered as a post-operative adjuvant. Included are 43 patients with totally 
resected metastatic melanoma (28-AJCC stage III, 15-AJCC stage IV), with a 
median follow up of 34 months (6-62). The treatment consisted of eight doses of 
a vaccine made of 10-25x10(6) autologous melanoma cells either released from the 
surgical specimen or grown in cell cultures. Tumour cells were conjugated with 
hapten dinitrophenyl, mixed with Bacille Calmette Guérin and irradiated to 110 
Gy. Both disease free survival and overall survival were found to be correlated 
with intensity of evolving delayed type hypersensitivity to subcutaneous 
injection of unmodified melanoma cells. Patients with a delayed type 
hypersensitivity reaction of > or =10 mm had a median disease free survival of 
17 months (mean 35 months) and a mean overall survival of 63 months (median not 
reached). In contrast, patients with a negative or weak delayed type 
hypersensitivity had a median disease free survival of 9 months (relative risk 
of recurrence=4.5, P=0.001), and a median overall survival of 16 months 
(relative risk of death=15, P=0.001). Stage III patients with a positive delayed 
type hypersensitivity reaction had an improved disease free survival of 16 
months and a mean overall survival of 38 months, whereas patients with a 
negative delayed type hypersensitivity had a median disease free survival of 7 
months (relative risk=4.5, P=0.02) and a median overall survival of 16 months 
(relative risk=9.5, P=0.005). The adjuvant administration of autologous melanoma 
vaccine was associated with improved disease-free and overall survival to 
selected patients who successfully attained anti-melanoma reactivity as detected 
by positive delayed type hypersensitivity reactions to unmodified melanoma 
cells.

comCopyright 2002 Cancer Research UK

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600251
PMCID: PMC2746603
PMID: 12085200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Br J Cancer. 2002 May 20;86(10):1578-85. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600305.

Expression of multidrug resistance-associated protein1,P-glycoprotein, and 
thymidylate synthase in gastric cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil and 
doxorubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy after curative resection.

Choi JH(1), Lim HY, Joo HJ, Kim HS, Yi JW, Kim HC, Cho YK, Kim MW, Lee KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, 
442-721, Korea (Rep.).

Both 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin are commonly used agents in chemotherapy of 
gastric cancer in adjuvant setting as well as metastatic disease. In a variety 
of malignancies, high expression of multidrug resistance-associated protein1 and 
P-glycoprotein has been associated with resistance to doxorubicin, whereas 
5-fluorouracil resistance has correlated with the level of thymidylate synthase 
expression. We evaluated the expression of multidrug resistance-associated 
protein1, P-glycoprotein, and thymidylate synthase using immunohistochemistry in 
103 locally advanced gastric cancer patients (stage IB-IV) who underwent 
5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy after curative 
resection and investigated the association between their expression and 
clinicopathologic characteristics including prognosis of the patients. While 
high expression (> or =5% of tumour cells positive) of multidrug 
resistance-associated protein1 and P-glycoprotein was observed in 70 patients 
(68%) and 42 patients (41%), respectively, 65 patients (63%) had primary tumours 
with high expression (> or =25% of tumour cells positive) of thymidylate 
synthase. There was a significant association between multidrug 
resistance-associated protein1 and P-glycoprotein expression (P<0.0001) as well 
as P-glycoprotein and thymidylate synthase expression (P<0.0001). High multidrug 
resistance-associated protein1 and P-glycoprotein expressions were associated 
with well and moderately differentiated histology (P<0.0001 and P=0.03, 
respectively) and intestinal type (P<0.0001 and P=0.009, respectively). High 
multidrug resistance-associated protein1 expression correlated with lymph node 
metastasis (P=0.037), advanced stage (P=0.015), and older age (P=0.021). 
Five-year disease-free survival and overall survival of total patients were 
55.2% and 56.2%, respectively, with a median follow-up of 68 months. There were 
no significant differences in disease-free survival and overall survival 
according to the expression of multidrug resistance-associated protein1 (P=0.902 
and P=0.975, respectively), P-glycoprotein (P=0.987 and P=0.955, respectively), 
and thymidylate synthase (P=0.604 and P=0.802, respectively). Concurrent high 
expression of these proteins (high multidrug resistance-associated 
protein1/P-glycoprotein, high multidrug resistance-associated 
protein1/thymidylate synthase, high P-glycoprotein/thymidylate synthase) did not 
correlate with disease-free survival or overall survival. Even high expression 
of all three proteins was not associated with poor disease-free survival 
(P=0.919) and overall survival (P=0.852). In conclusion, high expression of 
multidrug resistance-associated protein1, P-glycoprotein, and thymidylate 
synthase did not predict poor prognosis of gastric cancer patients treated with 
5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy. A larger study 
including patients treated with surgical resection alone would be necessary.

comCopyright 2002 Cancer Research UK

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600305
PMCID: PMC2746581
PMID: 12085207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Zentralbl Chir. 2002 Apr;127(4):270-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-31553.

[Comparison between treatment results for gastric cancer in younger and elderly 
patients].

[Article in German]

Piso P(1), Bektas H, Werner U, Becker T, Aselmann H, Schlitt HJ, Klempnauer J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Viszeral- und Transplantationschirurgie, Zentrum Chirurgie, 
Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover, Germany. Piso.Pompiliu@mh-hannover.de

INTRODUCTION: While gastric cancer shows an increased incidence in elderly 
patients, the rate of younger patients affected by this disease represents up to 
15 %. Younger patients are frequently diagnosed with advanced tumor stages with 
a poor prognosis although literature data on this issue are controversial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 643 patients with primary gastric carcinoma were operated 
in our institution between March 1986 and December 2000. No neoadjuvant 
treatment was administered in these patients. We analysed the data of these 
patients retrospectively. A comparison of the results between patients younger 
than 40 years (n = 38, median age 37 years) and older than 70 years (n = 182, 
median age 75 years) was performed.
RESULTS: The radical (R0-) resectability rate was rather high for both, younger 
(78.9 %) and elderly (76.9 %) patients. Postoperative morbidity was higher in 
elderly than in younger patients (32.9 % vs. 23.2 %; p < 0.05), as well as the 
postoperative mortality (7.7 % vs. 2.6 %; p < 0.05). Both younger and elderly 
patients showed advanced (II to IV) tumor stages (76.3 % vs. 73.3 %, n. s.). 
There was a significant difference between the rate of diffuse carcinomas in 
young and elderly patients (63.2 % vs. 22.5 %). The 5-years survival rate 
following R0-resection was significantly higher for younger patients (54.2 % vs. 
32.9 %; p = 0.01), differences occurred only after the second postoperative 
year.
CONCLUSIONS: The resectability of gastric carcinoma is not related to the 
patients age. Due to comorbidity, postoperative morbidity may be increased in 
elderly patients. Although both younger and elderly patients show advanced tumor 
stages, diffuse carcinomas are more frequent in younger patients. The short-term 
prognosis is similar for both age groups, long-term results are better for 
younger patients. The different life expectancy should be considered when 
interpreting these results.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-31553
PMID: 12085274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Zentralbl Chir. 2002 Apr;127(4):302-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-31558.

[Results of the surgical therapy in advanced colorectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Helfritzsch H(1), Böhm B, Thiele M, Altendorf-Hoffmann A, Scheele J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemeine und Viszerale Chirurgie, Universität Jena, Germany. 
h.helfritzsch@web.de

INTRODUCTION: In every 7th patient with colorectal cancer tumor has already 
spread beyond intestinal wall into surrounding organs.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 01. 01. 1990 and 31. 12. 1998 763 patients with 
colorectal cancer were treated at our surgical department. 166 patients (23 %) 
presented with tumor contiguous or adherent to adjacent organs (cT4).
RESULTS: In most cases tumor was localized in colon (109 patients, 66 %), in 57 
patients (34 %) tumor was found in rectum. Potenzial curative resection (R0) was 
possible in 67 patients (40 %). 66 patients (40 %) had microscopic (R1) or gro 
beta residual disease (R2) and in 33 patients only palliative surgery was 
possible. Extended resection of adjacent organs was performed in 97 % in the 
group with curative resection. 11 patients (8 %) died after multivisceral 
resection. The 5-year survival for curative resection was 57 %, for patients 
with microscopic or gro beta residual disease 9 months and for palliative 
surgery only 4 months.
CONCLUSION: Optimistic longterm results in advanced colorectal cancer can only 
be achieved after curative resection. After incomplete resection or palliative 
surgery median life expectancy is extremely poor.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-31558
PMID: 12085280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 2002 Apr;9(2):116-24. doi: 10.1053/jarr.2002.33518.

Moncrief-Popovich catheter and implantation technique: the AV fistula of 
peritoneal dialysis.

Dasgupta MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
mkdg@gpu.srv.ualberta.ca

Despite the decrease in peritonitis rate from touch contamination caused by the 
use of disconnect systems, technique failure in peritoneal dialysis (PD) from 
pericatheter and exit-site infections in PD remains unchanged. This indicates a 
failure of current PD catheters to prevent bacterial transfer from exit site to 
the peritoneal cavity. In 1991, Moncrief and Popovich introduced a new catheter 
design and implantation technique to address this problem. The catheter is made 
of silastic, has a coiled tip with 2 cuffs, and an arcuate bend between the 
cuffs. This would prevent catheter malfunction and leakage of PD fluid. The 
implantation technique involves embedding of the external segment of the 
catheter in the subcutaneous tunnel at insertion. The catheter segment is kept 
embedded for 4 to 6 weeks before externalization. This procedure will allow time 
for tissue ingrowth on into the external cuff and catheter surfaces between the 
2 cuffs, preventing bacterial colonization of the catheter surfaces from the 
exit wound and thereby reducing pericatheter infections. Thus, the new technique 
will establish a more effective bacteriologic barrier between the exit wound and 
the peritoneal cavity than the conventional catheters. Ten years after 
validation of the catheter design and implantation technique by Moncrief and 
Popovich, various clinical studies confirm that this new technique of catheter 
implantation increases catheter life expectancy and reduces pericatheter 
infections in PD. Like the arteriovenous fistula of haemodialysis, this new 
catheter remains embedded in subcutaneous tunnel, is exteriorized electively 
when patient needs to be started on dialysis, and reduces pericatheter and 
exit-site infections in PD. The new technique, therefore, is widely accepted as 
a simple, safe, and cost-effective procedure for quality care of PD patients 
around the world.

Copyright 2002 by the National Kidney Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/jarr.2002.33518
PMID: 12085388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Mol Microbiol. 2002 Feb;43(4):843-53. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.02790.x.

Screening for the target gene of cyanobacterial cAMP receptor protein SYCRP1.

Yoshimura H(1), Yanagisawa S, Kanehisa M, Ohmori M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

The target genes for SYCRP1, a cyanobacterial cAMP receptor protein, were 
surveyed using a DNA microarray method. Total RNAs were extracted from a 
wild-type strain and a sycrp1 disruptant of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, and the 
respective gene expression levels were compared. The expression levels of six 
genes (slr1667, slr1168, slr2015, slr2016, slr2017 and slr2018) were clearly 
decreased by the disruption of the sycrp1 gene. The data suggest that slr1667 
and slr1668 constitute one operon and the other four genes constitute another 
operon. Transcription start points for the first genes of these putative 
operons, which are slr1667 and slr2015, were determined by primer extension 
experiments. Gel mobility shift assays and DNase 1 footprint analyses were 
carried out to explore the binding of SYCRP1 to the putative promoter regions of 
slr1667 and slr2015. SYCRP1 bound to the specific site in the 5' upstream region 
of slr1667 from positions -170 to -155 relative to the transcription start 
point, while it did not bind to the 5' upstream region of slr2015. It was 
concluded that SYCRP1 regulates the expression of the slr1667 gene directly by 
binding to a specific site in its promoter.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.02790.x
PMID: 12085767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2002 Jan;16(1):53-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1015371616135.

Economic evaluation of the randomized aldactone evaluation study (RALES): 
treatment of patients with severe heart failure.

Glick HA(1), Orzol SM, Tooley JF, Remme WJ, Sasayama S, Pitt B.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and the Leonard Davis Institute of 
Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104, USA. 
hlthsvrs@mail.med.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: To use data from the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study (RALES) to 
compare clinical outcomes and costs as part of the assessment of the economic 
implications of spironolactone treatment of advanced heart failure.
METHODS: RALES was a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial that 
enrolled participants who had severe heart failure and a left ventricular 
ejection fraction of no more than 35% and who were receiving standard therapy, 
including an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, a loop diuretic, and, in 
some cases, digoxin. We used a decision analytic model that incorporated data 
from participants in RALES as well as cost data from five countries that 
participated in the study. Costs were calculated for nonfatal hospitalizations, 
ambulatory care, spironolactone therapy, and death. The primary health outcome 
was quality-adjusted life-years saved (QALYS). Outcomes were evaluated for the 
first 35 months of observation in RALES.
RESULTS: Spironolactone therapy during the first 35 months of follow-up in RALES 
increased quality-adjusted survival time (0.13 QALYS, 95% CI, 0.07 to 0.18) 
without increasing costs ($713 savings, 95% CI, $2,123 savings to $783 in 
costs). Spironolactone therapy either dominated placebo or had a ratio of cost 
per QALYS that was unlikely to exceed $20,300. These results were robust in both 
one-way and multiway sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Even after implementation of current clinical guidelines, addition 
of spironolactone therapy provides an opportunity to further reduce the large 
clinical and economic burden of patients with heart failure.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015371616135
PMID: 12085979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2002 Jan;16(1):61-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1015323700206.

The economic efficiency of amlodipine in the treatment of coronary 
atherosclerosis--an analysis based on the PREVENT study.

Cathomas G(1), Erne P, Schwenkglenks M, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Hirslanden Research, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: High health service expenditure on the one hand, and the politically 
declared objective of stability of statutory contributions and restriction of 
public funds on the other hand, have been central points of the political and 
social discussion for several years. The over-proportional increase in health 
service expenditure is obvious, compared to the increase in the costs of living.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cost-effectiveness of amlodipine in the treatment of 
coronary atherosclerosis was analysed by applying the results of the PREVENT 
study to the Swiss health system.
RESULTS: Calculation of effectiveness shows an additional life expectancy of 
0.083 years in the amlodipine cohort compared to the placebo cohort, over an 
observation period of 3 years. The cost-effectiveness of amlodipine treatment is 
approximately CHF 14,650 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: The administration of the calcium antagonist amlodipine in CHD 
patients is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015323700206
PMID: 12085980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Ann Pharmacother. 2002 Jul-Aug;36(7-8):1261-7. doi: 10.1345/aph.1A339.

Acute renal failure in hospitalized patients: part I.

Pruchnicki MC(1), Dasta JF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacy Practice and Administration, College of Pharmacy, The 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210-1291, USA. pruchnicki.1@osu.edu

BACKGROUND: Acute renal failure (ARF) is a common condition in hospitalized 
patients. Morbidity, mortality, and health resource use are considerable, but 
the true magnitude of the problem is not well described in the literature.
OBJECTIVE: To provide a detailed discussion of the epidemiology, economic costs, 
and classification of ARF.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search (1996-December 2001) was conducted using the 
search terms kidney and acute kidney failure: epidemiology, etiology, and drug 
therapy/drug effects. Bibliographies of selected articles were also examined to 
include all relevant investigations. Economic data were identified using the 
terms costs and cost analysis and cost of illness.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Review articles, meta-analyses, and 
clinical trials describing epidemiology and classification of hospital-acquired 
ARF were identified. Results from prospective, controlled trials were given 
priority when available.
CONCLUSIONS: ARF occurs in up to 25% of critically ill patients, resulting in 
significant morbidity and high mortality. Characterization of ARF is difficult 
due to multiple etiologic factors and variable definitions. Limited cost data 
describe the extensive economic burden associated with the disorder, although 
further pharmacoeconomic research is needed. Epidemiology and classification of 
ARF allow prospective management of at-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1A339
PMID: 12086561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Jul;37(7):859-69. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00060-8.

An exact law can test biological theories of mortality.

Azbel MY(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat-Aviv, Israel. 
azbel@post.tau.ac.il

Wild animals rarely grow old, and die due to extrinsic hazards. So, natural 
selection favors genes with good early effects even when they lead to senescence 
and death at later ages. This implies the Medawar accumulation of late-acting 
deleterious effects and Williams-Kirkwood life-history trade-off: mortality of a 
generation strongly depends on its early age life history. Human and protected 
animal populations live in evolutionary unprecedented conditions, and survive to 
old age. Quantitative analysis of their mortality establishes that in such 
conditions a dominant fraction of mortality yields an exact law. In contrast to 
mortality, the law is biologically non-specific (i.e. independent of genotypes, 
phenotypes, life history, old age diseases, and all other relevant factors, 
describing the population and its environment from conception to the age of 
death). It is universal for species as remote as humans and flies and may lead 
to the formulation of a biologically non-specific thermodynamic mechanism of 
mortality. The law predicts that mortality may be significantly decreased and 
reversed to its value at a much younger age. The reversal is consistent with 
demographic data. For instance, Swedish females, born in 1916, at 48 years 
restored the mortality rate they had at 20; Japanese females, born in 1927, at 
28 restored the life expectancy they had 8 years earlier. The law quantitatively 
tests mortality theories and establishes their limitations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00060-8
PMID: 12086694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Am J Kidney Dis. 2002 Jul;40(1):178-83. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.2002.33927.

Continued transplant immunosuppression may prolong survival after return to 
peritoneal dialysis: results of a decision analysis.

Jassal SV(1), Lok CE, Walele A, Bargman JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Vanita.Jassal@uhn.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Patient survival is prolonged in those with residual renal function. 
The risks of opportunistic infection and malignancy militate against a 
widespread policy of maintaining immunosuppression in those returning to 
peritoneal dialysis after a failed allograft. We set out to test the hypothesis 
that patients returning to peritoneal dialysis after a failed transplant benefit 
from continued immunosuppression.
METHOD: A decision analytic model comparing the use of immunosuppression after 
transplant failure and return to peritoneal dialysis with immunosuppressive 
withdrawal. Two assumptions were made: that the survival benefit reported in 
patients with a transplant kidney was the same as that expected from a native 
kidney with a similar glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and that the risks of 
carcinoma and opportunistic infections were equal to that of the general 
population if immunosuppressive therapy was discontinued. Probabilities were 
obtained from the literature, from an administrative database, and from the rate 
of GFR decline seen in our own unit in patients returning to dialysis who had 
been discontinued from their transplant immunosuppressive medication.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was prolonged from 5.3 years to 5.8 years when 
immunosuppression was continued in patients who returned to dialysis after 
chronic allograft failure. A higher survival benefit was seen at higher levels 
of additional GFR. A benefit from continued immunosuppressive therapy was seen 
for all values of additional GFR greater than 15 L/wk. All dialysis and renal 
clearances have been expressed as L/wk. The conversion factors for conversion to 
mL/s and mL/min are 605 and 10.1.
CONCLUSION: The data suggest that there may be a survival advantage in 
maintaining patients on long-term immunosuppressive function even after they 
return to peritoneal dialysis after allograft failure.

Copyright 2002 by the National Kidney Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2002.33927
PMID: 12087576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2002 May;49(5):417-24.

[Disorders requiring nursing care and the period before recognized as needing 
nursing care (active life expectancy) in relation to nursing care insurance].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Canter for Public Health and Welfare, Taihaku-ku, Sendai.

PURPOSE: To measure the state of health of the elderly population, active and 
dependent life expectancies were calculated based on the number of people 
needing nursing care. For this purpose, active life expectancy was defined as 
the period before nursing care was recognized by insurers as being required. 
Moreover, to cast light on disorders requiring nursing care, age-adjusted 
nursing time needed for different ailments per ten thousand elderly population 
was calculated.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Subjects were those 65 years or over living in Taihaku-ku, 
Sendai City, recognized as needing nursing care by nursing care insurers. The 
period before being recognized as needing nursing care was calculated using the 
Sullivan method, and termed the active life expectancy. Dependent life 
expectancy = life expectancy - active life expectancy. The number of those 
needing nursing care caused by each disorder diagnosed by attending physicians, 
was also age-adjusted by the reference population and multiplied by the nursing 
time needed for each level of nursing, resulting in the age-adjusted nursing 
time needed per ten thousand elderly population.
RESULTS: Those recognized as needing nursing care were 7.5% (7.7% after age 
adjustment) of the male elderly population, and 12.5% of the female population 
(10.7% after age adjustment). For men, the active life expectancy was 16.1 years 
for the age of 65, 9.2 years for 75 and 4.4 years for 85, while the dependent 
one was 2.0-2.1 years for all ages. For women, the active life expectancy was 
19.3 years for the age of 65, 11.1 years for 75 and 4.8 years for 85, while the 
dependent one was 4.6-5.3 years. The age-adjusted nursing time needed per ten 
thousand elderly population was 874 hours for men and 1,125 hours for women: of 
the time 51% was for men with cerebrovascular disease (40% for cerebral 
infarction), 11% for men with dementia; 37% for women with cerebrovascular 
disease (26% for cerebral infarction), 20% for women with skeletal diseases, 18% 
for women with dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: The active life expectancy for women is longer than for men, by 3.7 
years for the age of 65, by 2.3 years for 75 and by 0.5 years for 85. The 
dependent life expectancy for women is also longer than for men, by 3.2 years 
for the ages of 65 and 75 and by 2.6 years for 85. Thus, nursing prevention is 
an urgent issue, especially for women. The disorders requiring particularly long 
age-adjusted nursing time are carebrovascular disease (particularly cerebral 
infarction), dementia and skeletal disorders (particularly among women).

PMID: 12087768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. World J Urol. 2002 May;20(1):11-6. doi: 10.1007/s00345-002-0250-y.

The ageing male: demographics and challenges.

Lunenfeld B(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel. 
blunenf@attglobal.net

In the year 2000, there were more than 400 million people aged 65 and over in 
the world--projected to increase to almost 1.5 billion by the year 2050--a close 
to fourfold increase compared to the 50% increase for the global population as a 
whole. More than 25% of these 1.5 billion elderly people are projected to be 
"oldest-old" (aged 80 and over). Global ageing is a triumph and a challenge. As 
we enter the 21st century, it will put increased economic and social demands in 
all countries. But if more and more individuals reach older age in good 
health--and remain healthy for longer--the benefits will be shared by all. 
Therefore, the promotion of healthy ageing and the prevention of disability in 
all older people must assume a central role in medical care and research as well 
as in the formulation of national health and social policies. Effective programs 
promoting healthy ageing will ensure a more efficient use of health and social 
services and improve the quality of life in older persons by enabling them to 
remain independent and productive. With prolonged life expectancy, men and women 
can expect to live one-third of their lives with some form of hormone 
deficiency. Life expectancy differences between men and women exist in various 
regions of the world with a mean of 4.2 years, and is projected to increase to 
4.8 years by the year 2050. The ageing male, in particular, has the risk of 
developing gender-specific urological diseases, such as prostate cancer, benign 
prostate hyperplasia continence disorders (generally ignored by men) and 
erectile dysfunction. Hormonal changes in the ageing male are associated with 
changes in the body mass index, osteoporosis, and sleep and mood disorders. A 
significant relationship between body fat mass and both cardiovascular and 
overall mortality in men has been demonstrated. In some populations, at least, 
men may run a higher risk for cardiovascular complications than women. It is our 
sincere hope that the next few years will enrich us with facts and clarify the 
state of our present knowledge, permit us to recognize some of the missing 
links, give us the tools and methodology to design and plan ways to understand 
ageing in men, allow us to help to improve the quality of life, prevent the 
preventable, and postpone and decrease the pain and suffering of the inevitable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-002-0250-y
PMID: 12088183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. World J Urol. 2002 May;20(1):4-10. doi: 10.1007/s00345-002-0258-3.

The ageing male.

Schulman C(1), Lunenfeld B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasme Hospital University, Brussels, Belgium. 
claude.schulman@ulb.ac.be

With prolonged life expectancy, men and women can expect to live one-third of 
their lives with some form of hormone deficiency. The ageing male, in 
particular, has the added problem of developing urological diseases, such as 
benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate cancer, continence disorders and 
erectile dysfunction. When discussing age-related problems, it is often 
difficult to separate and to distinguish between the natural ageing process, 
ageing amplifiers and an acute or chronic illness, or inter-current diseases. 
Partial endocrine deficiencies of ageing are associated with a decrease in the 
peripheral levels of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA sulphate 
(DHEA-S), growth hormone, insulin-like growth factor and melatonin. There is 
also a concomitant increase in luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating 
hormone. The concentration of free biologically active testosterone is lowered 
further by an increase in sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). Hormonal changes 
in the ageing male are associated with changes in the body mass index, 
osteoporosis, sleep and mood disorders. A number of testosterone replacement 
therapies are available. These therapies should maintain physiological levels 
not only of serum testosterone, but also of its metabolites, including 
dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and estradiol. Men on testosterone therapy should be 
monitored at 3-month intervals during the first year of use and, thereafter, at 
1-year intervals if they are stable. The association of testosterone replacement 
with development of prostate cancer has not been determined.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-002-0258-3
PMID: 12088188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Eff Clin Pract. 2002 May-Jun;5(3):137-42.

Prostate biopsies in men with limited life expectancy.

Wasson JH(1), Bubolz TA, Yao GL, Barry MJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Aging, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH 03755-3862, USA. 
john.h.wasson@dartmouth.edu

CONTEXT: Authorities discourage prostate screening in men who are likely to die 
from causes other than prostate cancer.
PRACTICE PATTERN EXAMINED: Use of prostate biopsy-a proxy for screening-in men 
aged 65 and older with limited life expectancy (i.e., estimated to be less than 
10 years).
DATA SOURCE: Five percent samples of Part A (hospital) and Part B (physician) 
Medicare claims for 1993 through 1997.
RESULTS: 22% of all Medicare beneficiaries who underwent a prostate biopsy had a 
limited life expectancy, corresponding to a rate of 1420 biopsies per 100,000. 
This rate did not change significantly between 1993 and 1997. For men with a 
life expectancy greater than 10 years, the biopsy rate was 2,360 per 100,000. 
Among men with limited life expectancy, in the year following the biopsy, 1.6% 
had radical prostatectomy and 2.3% had external-beam radiation. Thirty-nine 
percent were hospitalized.
CONCLUSION: A substantial proportion of prostate biopsies are being performed in 
men with a life expectancy of less than 10 years. These men are unlikely to 
benefit from the biopsy or subsequent treatment.

PMID: 12088293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Health Policy. 2002 Aug;61(2):189-99. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00238-x.

Exploring the role of order effects in person trade-off elicitations.

Ubel PA(1), Richardson J, Baron J.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research & Development, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
University of Michigan Health Care System, 300 North Ingalls, Room 7C27, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0429, USA. paubel@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The person trade-off (PTO) has been advocated by some as an 
alternative measure for the purposes of cost-effectiveness analyses. However, 
the measurement properties of PTO elicitations are still being defined.
METHODS: We presented subjects with two PTO scenarios. In the pre-existing 
paraplegia scenario, they were asked how many paraplegics' lives would have to 
be saved to be just as important as saving 100 'normal' people's lives. In the 
paraplegia onset scenario, they were asked how many patients who would 
experience the onset of paraplegia need to be saved to equal the benefit of 
saving 100 'normal' lives. We varied the order of the two scenarios across 
subjects to test whether PTO elicitations are susceptible to order effects. In 
addition, we varied whether subjects were required to provide a numerical 
response to the first elicitation.
RESULTS: Subjects' PTO indifference points for the two scenarios varied 
dramatically depending on the order with which they received the scenarios, and 
according to whether the first elicitation required a numerical response. For 
those subjects providing numerical responses to both elicitations, median PTO 
responses varied by a factor of close to two in the pre-existing paraplegia 
scenario and by a factor of eight in the paraplegia onset scenario. However, the 
magnitude of the order effect was significantly reduced when subjects were not 
asked to provide a numerical response to the first PTO elicitation.
CONCLUSION: PTO elicitations are susceptible to order effects. These order 
effects are partly due to numerical anchoring. However, other cognitive factors 
contribute to the order effect. Further research should clarify whether these 
order effects can be reduced.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(01)00238-x
PMID: 12088891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Lancet. 2002 Jun 22;359(9324):2129-30. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)09114-6.

Economic implications of non-compliance in health care.

Cleemput I(1), Kesteloot K.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services and Nursing Research, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, 
Belgium. irina.cleemput@med.kuleuven.ac.be

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)09114-6
PMID: 12090976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Br J Psychiatry. 2002 Jul;181:77; author reply 77-8. doi:
10.1192/bjp.181.1.77.

Personality disorder.

Pilgrim D.

Comment on
    Br J Psychiatry. 1998 Jul;173:8-10.
    Br J Psychiatry. 2002 Feb;180:110-5.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.181.1.77
PMID: 12091270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Biol Chem. 2002 Sep 13;277(37):34489-98. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M205460200. Epub
 2002 Jun 28.

Structural basis for the NAD-dependent deacetylase mechanism of Sir2.

Chang JH(1), Kim HC, Hwang KY, Lee JW, Jackson SP, Bell SD, Cho Y.

Author information:
(1)National Creative Research Initiative Center for Structural Biology and 
Department of Life Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Hyo-ja 
dong, San31, Pohang, KyungBook 790-784, South Korea.

The NAD-dependent histone/protein deacetylase activity of Sir2 (silent 
information regulator 2) accounts for its diverse biological roles including 
gene silencing, DNA damage repair, cell cycle regulation, and life span 
extension. We provide crystallographic evidence that 2'-O-acetyl ADP-ribose is 
the reaction product that is formed at the active site of Sir2 from the 2.6-A 
co-crystal structure of 2'-O-acetyl-ADP-ribose and Sir2 from Archaeoglobus 
fulgidus. In addition, we show that His-116 and Phe-159 play critical roles in 
the catalysis and substrate recognition. The conserved Ser-24 and Asp-101 
contribute to the stability for NAD binding rather than being directly involved 
in the catalysis. The crystal structures of wild type and mutant derivatives of 
Sir2, in conjunction with biochemical analyses of the mutants, provide novel 
insights into the reaction mechanism of Sir2-mediated deacetylation.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M205460200
PMID: 12091395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Clin Chest Med. 2002 Jun;23(2):479-92. doi: 10.1016/s0272-5231(01)00008-9.

Thoracic amebiasis.

Shamsuzzaman SM(1), Hashiguchi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, Kochi Medical School, 
Nankoku City, Kochi 783-8505, Japan. smszaman@yahoo.com

Pleuropulmonary amebiasis is the common and pericardial amebiasis the rare form 
of thoracic amebiasis. Low socioeconomic conditions, malnutrition, chronic 
alcoholism, and ASD with left to right shunt are contributing factors to the 
development of pulmonary amebiasis. Although no age is exempt, it commonly 
occurs in patients aged 20 to 40 years, with an adult male to female ratio of 
10:1. Children rarely develop thoracic amebiasis: when it does occur there is an 
equal sex distribution. The infection usually spreads to the lungs by extension 
of an amebic liver abscess. Infection may pass to the thorax directly from the 
primary intestinal lesion through hematogenous spread, however. Lymphatic spread 
is one possible route. Inhalation of dust containing cysts and aspiration of 
cysts or trophozoites of E histolytica in the lungs are some other hypothetical 
routes. The lung is the second most common extraintestinal site of amebic 
involvement after the liver. Usually the lower lobe, and sometimes the middle 
lobe of the right lung, are affected, but it may affect any lobe of the lungs. 
The patient develops fever and right upper quadrant pain that is referred to the 
tip of the right shoulder or in between the scapula. Hemophtysis is common. The 
diagnosis of thoracic amebiasis is suggested by the combination of an elevated 
hemidiaphragm (usually right), hepatomegaly, pleural effusion, and involvement 
of the right lung base in the form of haziness and obliteration of costophrenic 
and costodiaphragmatic angles. Infection is usually extended to the thorax by 
perforation of a hepatic abscess through the diaphragm and across an obliterated 
pleural space, producing pulmonary consolidation, abscesses, or broncho-hepatic 
fistula. Empyema develops when a liver abscess ruptures into the pleural space. 
Rarely, a posterior amebic liver abscess can burst into the inferior vena cava 
and develop an embolism of the inferior vena cava and thromboembolic disease of 
the lungs with congestive cardiac failure or corpulmonale. Diagnosis by finding 
E histolytica in stool specimens is of limited value. In a limited number of 
cases amebae might be found in aspirated pus or expectorated sputum. "Anchovy 
sauce-like" pus or sputum may be found. Presence of bile in sputum indicates 
that the pus is of liver origin. Serological tests are of immense value in 
diagnosis. Liver enzymes are usually normal and neutrophilic leucocytosis may or 
may not be found. ESR is invariably elevated. Anti-amebic antibodies can be 
detected by ELISA, IFAT, and IHA. Amebic antigen can be detected from serum and 
pus by ELISA. Detection of Entamoeba DNA in pus or sputum may be a sensitive and 
specific method. Pleuropulmonary amebiasis is easily confused with other 
illnesses and is treated as pulmonary TB, bacterial lung abscesses, and 
carcinoma of the lung. A single drug regimen with metronidazole with supportive 
therapy usually cures patients without residual anomalies. Aspiration of pus 
from empyema thoracis may be needed for confirmation and therapeutic purposes. 
The pericardium is usually involved by direct extension from the amebic abscess 
of the left lobe of the liver, sometimes from the right lobe of the liver, and 
rarely from the lungs or pleura. An initial accumulation of serous fluid due to 
reactive pericarditis followed by intrapericardial rupture may develop either 
(1) acute onset of severe symptoms with chest pain, dyspnea, and cardiac 
tamponade, shock, and death, or (2) progressive effusion with thoracic cage 
pain, progressive dyspnea, and fever. Chest radiograph, ultrasound examination, 
and CT scan usually confirm the presence of a liver abscess in continuity with 
the pericardium and fluid within the pericardial sac with or without the 
fistulous tract. Echocardiography may demonstrate fluid in the pericardial 
cavity. Patients should be cared for in the ICU and ambecides should be started 
without delay. Pericardiocentesis usually confirms the diagnosis and improves 
the general condition of the patient. Aspiration of the accumulated fluid should 
be performed urgently in cardiac tamponade; repeated aspiration may be needed. 
Surgical drainage should be done if needed. Acanthamoeba, a free-living ameba, 
may also infect the lungs in the form of pulmonary nodular infiltration and 
pulmonary edema in association with amebic meningoencephalitis in 
immunocompromised patients. It usually spreads to the meninges of the brain by 
way of the blood from its primary lesion in the lung or skin. Early diagnosis 
and institution of treatment may be life saving for these patients. A literature 
review shows that HIV/AIDS patients are not prone to infection with E 
histolytica. It is now clear that there are an increasing number of 
HIV-seropositive patients among amebic liver abscess patients, however, which 
suggests that although the incidence of intestinal infection is not high among 
HIV-seropositive or AIDS patients they are more susceptible to an invasive form 
of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-5231(01)00008-9
PMID: 12092041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Int Urol Nephrol. 2001;33(2):283-92. doi: 10.1023/a:1015292603884.

Common conditions of the aging male: erectile dysfunction, benign prostatic 
hyperplasia, cardiovascular disease and depression.

Zakaria L(1), Anastasiadis AG, Shabsigh R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

With increasing life expectancy, medical profession will be faced with the task 
of ensuring that the large, aging population remains healthy and vital despite 
the face of increasing healthcare costs. Naturally, urology as a specialty is 
concerned with important geriatric issues. This article will focus specifically 
on the aging male population and the health problems that most frequently plague 
them. Four major, non-cancer, disease states have been identified that adversely 
effect males over the age of 50. These conditions are: erectile dysfunction 
(ED), benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
depression. A literature search of PubMed was conducted using the key words ED, 
BPH, CVD and depression as well as ADAM (Androgen Decline in the Aging Male) and 
quality of life (QoL). NIH and WHO conference proceedings and publications were 
also referenced to insure detail and accuracy of data. Information was then 
organized and correlated in order to provide a detailed description of the key 
conditions and their interrelatedness. The spectrum of research performed thus 
far regarding this topic has done little to investigate the effects, causes and 
correlations between these conditions. Research has been done linking two or 
three of these conditions; however, there remains to be information discussing 
the four disease states in terms of their possible cause and effect 
relationships or the effectiveness of parallel, multi-disciplinary approach to 
their therapy. This report calls attention to the benefits of viewing and 
researching the above mentioned conditions as possibly interrelated, as opposed 
to the traditional view of them as separate, unrelated and independently 
treatable disease states. ED, BPH, CVD and depression are all common conditions 
that accompany aging and negatively impact QoL. They almost always develop with 
age and precipitate considerable morbidity and may even result in mortality. 
Furthermore, the presentation of one condition may correlate with the 
development of another. The inter-relation of these conditions, as evident from 
their underlying similarities, cause-and-effects relationships and therapeutic 
consequences, should be enough to warrant a multidisciplinary approach to their 
research. This approach, combined with careful choice of therapy, parallel and 
singular, will help providers reach their goal to keep patients healthy, and 
more importantly happy, late into their life, thus realizing the concept of 
"successful aging".

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015292603884
PMID: 12092641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Ir Med J. 2002 May;95(5):132.

Planning medical services for the elderly: disability free survival must be the 
goal.

Murphy JF.

PMID: 12092691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Ir Med J. 2002 May;95(5):133-5.

Cost effectiveness of statins for the secondary prevention of coronary heart 
disease in Ireland.

Barry M, Heerey A.

PMID: 12092692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Pathol Res Pract. 2002;198(5):339-46. doi: 10.1078/0344-0338-00264.

Autopsy-proven determinants of death in HIV-infected patients treated for 
pulmonary tuberculosis in Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Gutierrez EB(1), Zanetta DM, Saldiva PH, Capelozzi VL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Hospital das Clinicas, School of Medicine, 
University of São Paulo, Brazil.

The aim of this work is to describe and compare pulmonary pathology and proven 
causes of death in HIV-infected and non-HIV patients treated for tuberculosis, 
to identify the presence and extension of the lesions, and to suggest 
appropriate interventions based on the results. Of 246 adult patients (aged > 
15) autopsied with tuberculosis and tested for HIV infection at Hospital das 
Clinicas, School of Medicine, São Paulo University, from January 1994 to 
December 1996, 100 HIV-infected patients were matched with 44 non-HIV-infected 
patients. Demographic determinants influencing patients' death were as follows: 
1. Age and sex were not found to be important for the histological outcome, but 
do seem to correlate with HIV infection. Older patients with tuberculosis are 
less likely to be HIV-infected; 2. Previous tuberculosis and its treatment had 
no influence on the course of secondary or reinfection tuberculosis; 3. The 
efficiency of the diagnostic criteria used at the time of death was very low 
(59.2%); 4. Tuberculosis was more frequently investigated in HIV-infected than 
in non-HIV-infected patients; 5. Only 79 (56%) of the patients received first 
line agents for treatment; 6. Patients presented with advanced disease; 7. Their 
mortality is high, and death occurs early. Morphological determinants with 
influence on patient's death were related to differences in the spectrum of 
tuberculosis presentation and time of treatment. Noncaseating generalized 
multibacillary tuberculosis was likely to be the primary cause of death in 
HIV-infected patients who died during therapy, whereas deaths of patients 
occurring after the second course of treatment because of recurrence or 
incomplete treatment were increased for other manifestations of HIV disease 
(pyogenic pneumonia, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, cerebral toxoplasmosis, 
wasting syndrome). In these patients, dimorphic tuberculosis, an intermediate 
reactive spectrum form of presentation, was the predominant histological 
finding. In the opposite spectrum, paucibacillary tuberculosis, a reactive form 
of tuberculosis presentation, was equally regarded in non-HIV-infected patients 
as the primary cause of death after four months of therapy. In the same 
spectrum, non-HIV-infected patients with tuberculosis, who completed all or most 
of their treatment, died of associated diseases after therapy (alcoholism, 
cancer, diabetes mellitus). Autopsy-proven determinants of death were associated 
with HIV status, the spectrum of tuberculosis presentation, and time of 
treatment. Early treatment for tuberculosis and associated diseases can improve 
survival and the quality of life even of highly immunosuppressed patients.

DOI: 10.1078/0344-0338-00264
PMID: 12092770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Trauma Stress. 2002 Jun;15(3):255-8. doi: 10.1023/A:1015263513654.

Changes in PTSD patients' narratives during prolonged exposure therapy: a 
replication and extension.

van Minnen A(1), Wessel I, Dijkstra T, Roelofs K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology and Personality, University of Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands. minnen@psych.kun.nl

Following E. B. Foa, C. Molnar, and L. Cashman (1995), narrative changes from 
the first to the last exposure session were compared for improved and 
nonimproved PTSD patients on fragmentation, organization, internal, and external 
events. Improved (n = 8) and nonimproved (n = 12) patients did not differ 
regarding changes in fragmentation or organized thoughts. However, improved 
patients showed a greater decrease in disorganized thoughts during treatment. 
Furthermore, all patients, independent of improvement, showed significant 
changes in the same direction; a decrease in disorganized thoughts and external 
events and an increase in internal events. Although previous results were partly 
replicated, it is concluded that narrative changes may be due to exposure 
treatment itself rather than to changes in memory representation.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1015263513654
PMID: 12092918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(7):463-73. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220070-00004.

Limitations of the methods used for calculating quality-adjusted life-year 
values.

Duru G(1), Auray JP, Béresniak A, Lamure M, Paine A, Nicoloyannis N.

Author information:
(1)CNRS (French National Center for Scientific Research), Université Claude 
Bernard Lyon I, Bâtiment 101, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, 69622 
Villeurbanne, France. gduru@univ-lyon1.fr

OBJECTIVE: To test the validity of the techniques used to calculate 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) values based on utility functions, using a 
real population dataset.
DESIGN: Using the standard gamble technique, we gathered the preferences of a 
population sample of 189 individuals on a combination of probabilities 
concerning four simple health states (no physical disability, limp, walk with 
crutches and need a wheelchair), and three life-year spans (5, 10 and 15 years). 
Each of the four assumptions of the multiplicative model was tested based on the 
results of the experiment.
RESULTS: The utility of the health state "limp" was high at 0.89 and that of 
"walk with crutches" only slightly lower at 0.85. However, of the 189 
individuals, only 57 are not in contradiction with the assumption of mutual 
utility independence since they strictly preferred (15 years, "need a 
wheelchair") over (10 years, "need a wheelchair") and (15 years, "need a 
wheelchair") over (5 years, "need a wheelchair"). For these 57 individuals, the 
results of this study do not fit the assumptions underpinning the multiplicative 
model.
CONCLUSION: This work suggests that the techniques used as a basis from which to 
