calculate QALY values are flawed. In particular, the underlying assumptions of 
the multiattribute utility model do not correspond to behaviour patterns 
observed in a real population. It therefore appears that use of the QALY 
technique should be questioned in healthcare decision-making settings.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220070-00004
PMID: 12093302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Drug Saf. 2002;25(7):525-35. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200225070-00006.

Management options for cancer therapy-related anaemia.

Littlewood TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, United Kingdom. 
tim.littlewood@orh.nhs.uk

Anaemia is common in patients with haematological malignancy, occurring in the 
majority of patients with malignant disease who are treated with chemotherapy. 
Most patients will have their anaemia attributed to the cytokine-mediated 
anaemia of chronic disease. Many of these patients with anaemia will be 
symptomatic with fatigue, which is the single most important symptom reported. 
Data from many studies indicate that treatment of patients with anaemia with 
recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) will increase their haemoglobin level, 
decrease transfusion need and also improve their quality of life. Recent 
clinical and experimental work suggest that improving the haemoglobin level may 
improve the patients' prognosis but this finding needs to be confirmed. 
Treatment of anaemia with rHuEpo in patients with cancer may produce many 
benefits. Unfortunately, rHuEpo is effective in only around 60% of patients, is 
slow acting and is expensive. These drawbacks have restricted its use in many 
healthcare systems. However, a failure to treat anaemia may have important 
adverse effects for the patient both in terms of their quality of life and, just 
possibly, in terms of their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200225070-00006
PMID: 12093310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Drugs Aging. 2002;19(5):321-9. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200219050-00001.

Ethical challenges in end-of-life therapies in the elderly.

Gordon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics and Internal Medicine, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care, 
University of Toronto, 3560 Bathurst Street, Toronto, Ontario M6A 2E1, Canada.

With the increasing numbers of elderly in the population of all western 
countries and the increasing life expectancy at birth, many seniors spend the 
last period of their life with various afflictions that may require the need for 
long-term institutional care. During the last period of life, many seniors and 
their families face decisions that challenge ethical principles and may cause 
conflict among family members as well as healthcare professionals. The commonly 
used ethical principles of autonomy, beneficence, nonmaleficence and justice, 
although forming a useful foundation for the evaluation of decision-making 
dilemmas, alone cannot resolve many clinically challenging situations. 
Healthcare professionals must clearly understand the clinical state of the 
patient for whom a difficult decision is being contemplated. Levels of function, 
clinical symptoms, the expected trajectory of change and possible treatment 
options have to be balanced against the person's values and wishes, either 
self-expressed directly or through an advance directive, or communicated by 
surrogate decision makers. At times, physicians face difficult treatment 
dilemmas when patients or families request treatments that are not legally 
sanctioned, such as when physician-assisted suicide is requested by a suffering 
patient. At other times conflicts occur when patients or surrogates wish to 
continue with therapies that are no longer considered necessary or suitable by 
the physician. At the societal level, sometimes an expensive drug that is deemed 
necessary by the physicians is not covered by a government-sponsored or private 
health plan. The issue of distributive justice must be considered in a situation 
such as when long-term facilities or acute hospitals treating frail, cognitively 
impaired elders consider withholding or withdrawing various treatments because 
of poor clinical outcomes coupled with excessive costs. The often controversial 
issue of nutrition and hydration in the end-of-life period frequently causes 
treatment conflicts and dilemmas among surrogates and staff, as does the highly 
charged issue of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in this frail and very vulnerable 
population. The real challenge for healthcare providers in the field of 
geriatric long-term care is to balance compassionate and appropriate care with 
respect for the choices and wishes of patients and their families. This should 
be accomplished while at the same time safeguarding the professional standards 
and ethical integrity of healthcare providers responsible for this care.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200219050-00001
PMID: 12093319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Pediatrics. 2002 Jul;110(1 Pt 1):7-15. doi: 10.1542/peds.110.1.7.

Tonsillectomy and adenotonsillectomy for recurrent throat infection in 
moderately affected children.

Paradise JL(1), Bluestone CD, Colborn DK, Bernard BS, Rockette HE, Kurs-Lasky M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213-2583, USA. jpar@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2003 Jul;112(1 Pt 1):205; author reply 205.

OBJECTIVE: In previous clinical trials involving children severely affected with 
recurrent throat infection (7 or more well-documented, clinically important, 
adequately treated episodes of throat infection in the preceding year, or 5 or 
more such episodes in each of the 2 preceding years, or 3 or more such episodes 
in each of the 3 preceding years), we found tonsillectomy efficacious in 
reducing the number and severity of subsequent episodes of throat infection for 
at least 2 years. The results seemed to warrant the election of tonsillectomy in 
children meeting the trials' stringent eligibility criteria but also provided 
support for nonsurgical management. We undertook the present trials to determine 
1) whether tonsillectomy would afford equivalent benefit in children who were 
less severely affected than those in our earlier trials but who nonetheless had 
indications for tonsillectomy comparable to those in general use, and 2) 
whether, in such children, the addition of adenoidectomy would confer additional 
benefit.
METHODS: We conducted 2 parallel randomized, controlled trials in the Ambulatory 
Care Center of Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. To be eligible, children were 
required to have had a history of recurrent episodes of throat infection that 
met standards slightly less stringent than the standards used in our earlier 
trials regarding either the frequency of previous episodes or their clinical 
features or their degree of documentation, but not regarding >1 of those 
parameters. These reduced standards were nonetheless more stringent than those 
in current official guidelines, which list "3 or more infections of tonsils 
and/or adenoids per year despite adequate medical therapy" as an indication for 
tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy. Of 2174 children referred by physicians or 
parents, 373 met the current trials' eligibility criteria and 328 were enrolled. 
Of these, 177 children without obstructing adenoids or recurrent or persistent 
otitis media were randomized to either a tonsillectomy group, an 
adenotonsillectomy group, or a control group (the 3-way trial), and 151 children 
who had 1 or more such conditions were randomized to either an 
adenotonsillectomy group or a control group (the 2-way trial). Outcome measures 
were the occurrence of episodes of throat infection during the 3 years of 
follow-up; other, indirect measures of morbidity; and complications of surgery.
RESULTS: By various measures, the incidence of throat infection was 
significantly lower in surgical groups than in corresponding control groups 
during each of the 3 follow-up years. However, even among control children, mean 
rates of moderate or severe episodes were low, ranging from 0.16 to 0.43 per 
year. Adenotonsillectomy was no more efficacious than tonsillectomy alone. Of 
203 children treated with surgery, 16 (7.9%) had surgery-related complications 
of varying types and severity.
CONCLUSIONS: The modest benefit conferred by tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy 
in children moderately affected with recurrent throat infection seems not to 
justify the inherent risks, morbidity, and cost of the operations. We conclude 
that, under ordinary circumstances, neither eligibility criteria such as those 
used for the present trials nor the criterion for surgery in current official 
guidelines are sufficiently stringent for use in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.110.1.7
PMID: 12093941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Pediatrics. 2002 Jul;110(1 Pt 1):e2. doi: 10.1542/peds.110.1.e2.

Efficacy and safety of pimecrolimus cream in the long-term management of atopic 
dermatitis in children.

Wahn U(1), Bos JD, Goodfield M, Caputo R, Papp K, Manjra A, Dobozy A, Paul C, 
Molloy S, Hultsch T, Graeber M, Cherill R, de Prost Y; Flare Reduction in Eczema 
with Elidel (Children) Multicenter Investigator Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Pneumology and Immunology, Charit√©, Humboldt 
University, Berlin, Germany. ulrich.wahn@charite.de

OBJECTIVE: Pimecrolimus cream (SDZ ASM 981), a nonsteroid inhibitor of 
inflammatory cytokines, is effective in atopic dermatitis (AD). We assessed 
whether early treatment of AD signs/symptoms with pimecrolimus could influence 
long-term outcome by preventing disease flares.
METHODS: Early intervention with pimecrolimus was compared with a conventional 
AD treatment strategy (ie, emollients and topical corticosteroids). In this 
1-year, controlled, double-blind study, 713 AD patients (2-17 years) were 
randomized 2:1 to a pimecrolimus-based or conventional regimen. Both groups used 
emollients for dry skin. Early AD signs/symptoms were treated with pimecrolimus 
cream or, in the conventional treatment group, vehicle to prevent progression to 
flares. If flares occurred, moderately potent topical corticosteroids were 
mandated. The primary efficacy endpoint was ranked flares at 6 months. Safety 
was monitored clinically, and a skin recall-antigen test was performed at study 
completion.
RESULTS: BASELINE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PATIENTS: The mean age for both groups 
was approximately 8 years, and the majority of patients had moderate disease at 
baseline. PATIENT FOLLOW-UP AND EXPOSURE TO STUDY MEDICATION: The mean duration 
of follow-up (+/-standard error) was 303.7 (+/-5.30) days in the pimecrolimus 
group and 235.2 (+/-9.40) days in the control group. The discontinuation rate 
was significantly higher in the control group than in the pimecrolimus group 
(51.5% vs 31.6% at 12 months), and proportionately more patients with severe or 
very severe disease discontinued in the control group. The main reason for the 
higher discontinuation rate in the control group was unsatisfactory therapeutic 
effect (30.4% vs 12.4%). This resulted in a substantially higher mean number of 
study medication treatment days in the pimecrolimus group compared with the 
control group: 211.9 (69.8% of study days) versus 156.0 (66.3% of study days). 
Of those patients who completed 12 months on study, 14.2% and 7.0% of patients 
in the pimecrolimus and vehicle groups, respectively, used study medication 
continuously.
EFFICACY: Patients in the pimecrolimus group experienced significantly fewer AD 
flares than those in the control group, according to the primary efficacy 
analysis on ranked flares of AD (Van Elteren test). The proportion of patients 
who completed 6 or 12 months with no flares was approximately twice as high in 
the pimecrolimus group compared with control (61.0% vs 34.2% at 6 months; 50.8% 
vs 28.3% at 12 months). Fewer flares were observed in the pimecrolimus group 
regardless of baseline disease severity, so even severe patients derived benefit 
from the treatment. The analysis of time to first flare showed that treatment 
with pimecrolimus was associated with a significantly longer flare-free period 
(log- rank test). Covariate analysis indicated a statistically significant 
effect on time to first flare of baseline Eczema Area and Severity Index score, 
and whether patients had "severe" or "very severe" disease at baseline according 
to the Investigators' Global Assessment, although patients in all baseline 
disease severity subgroups benefited from treatment. Age had no significant 
effect. Fewer patients in the pimecrolimus group required topical corticosteroid 
therapy compared with control (35.0% vs 62.9% at 6 months; 42.6% vs 68.4% at 12 
months), and patients in the pimecrolimus group spent fewer days on topical 
corticosteroid therapy (57.4% vs 31.6% [pimecrolimus vs control, respectively] 
spent 0 days on topical corticosteroid therapy, 17.1% vs 27.5% 1-14 days, and 
25.5% vs 41.0% >14 days over the 12 months of the study). This steroid-sparing 
effect of pimecrolimus was evident despite pimecrolimus-treated patients being 
on study longer than patients in the control group. The average proportion of 
study days spent on second-line corticosteroids was 4.08% in the pimecrolimus 
group and 9.10% in the control group. Analysis of Eczema Area and Severity Index 
over time showed significantly lower median scores, thus indicating better 
disease control in the pimecrolimus group compared with the control group. 
Similar results were obtained from analysis of the Investigators' Global 
Assessment (not shown). The treatment groups were well balanced with respect to 
the number of patients using antihistamines during the study (57.2% vs 62.9%, 
pimecrolimus vs control, respectively).
SAFETY: There were no appreciable differences between treatment groups in the 
overall incidence of adverse events. The most frequent adverse events were 
common childhood infections and ailments, including nasopharyngitis, headache, 
and cough. The incidence of suspected drug-related adverse events was not 
significantly different in the pimecrolimus group (24.7% vs 18.7%--pimecrolimus 
vs control), and the incidence of serious adverse events was low (8.3% vs 
5.2%--pimecrolimus vs control). Life-table analysis of incidence of adverse 
events revealed no significant differences between the treatment groups, except 
for cough. Local tolerability was good in both treatment groups. The most common 
application site reaction reported was sensation of burning (10.5% vs 
9.3%--pimecrolimus vs control). There were no major differences between 
treatment groups in the duration or severity of application site reactions, most 
of which were mild-to-moderate and transient, occurring within the first week of 
treatment. Skin infections were reported in both groups. There were no 
between-group differences in the life-table analysis of time to first occurrence 
of bacterial skin infections nor in the adjusted incidence of bacterial skin 
infections. Although there were no significant differences between treatment 
groups in the incidence of individual viral skin infections, the incidence of 
grouped viral skin infections (12.4% vs 6.3%--pimecrolimus vs control) showed a 
slightly higher incidence in the pimecrolimus group. Laboratory values and vital 
signs showed no significant between-group differences. There were no significant 
differences between treatment groups in response to recall antigens in those 
patients who remained on study for 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of early AD signs/symptoms with pimecrolimus was 
effective in preventing progression to flares in more than half the patients, 
reducing or eliminating the need for topical corticosteroids. The benefits were 
consistently seen at 6 months across important disease severity subgroups and 
with respect to the various predefined efficacy endpoints. Furthermore, these 
benefits were sustained for 12 months, providing evidence that long-term 
treatment with pimecrolimus leads to better control of AD. Treatment with 
pimecrolimus was well tolerated and was not associated with clinically relevant 
adverse events compared with the conventional treatment group. The results 
reported here offer the prospect of effective long-term management of AD with 
reduced need for topical corticosteroids.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.110.1.e2
PMID: 12093983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2002;152(9-10):238-40. doi: 
10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.02035.x.

[Research support and the pharmaceutical industry in Germany].

[Article in German]

H√∂sch H(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Pharma√∂konomie der Fa. MedacSchering Onkologie, GmbH, N√∂rdliche 
Auffahrtsallee 44, D-80638 M√ºnchen, Deutschland. h.hoesch@mso-pharma.de

Improved life expectancy in the industrial world is a consequence of modern drug 
development and clinical research. Drug development requires long term 
investments. The costs for drug development increased considerably, because of 
higher safety and effectiveness standards. New drugs and the improvement of 
treatment strategies increased the success-rate and, at the same time, reduced 
the costs. In oncology drug development Germany ranks only second in global 
competition. Accelerations in the administrative processes of the universities 
for clinical research are urgently needed to better compete internationally. 
Furthermore the legal requirements installed in recent years hampered industrial 
and clinical research. Politics must see to it that Germany does not fall behind 
other industrial countries even further in the field of drug research and 
development.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1563-258x.2002.02035.x
PMID: 12094398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Otolaryngol Pol. 2002;56(2):147-53.

[Gene modified tumor vaccines in therapy of malignant melanoma].

[Article in Polish]

Wysocki PJ(1), Karczewska A, Mackiewicz A.

Author information:
(1)Zak≈Çad Immunologii Nowotwor√≥w Katedry Onkologii AM im. K. Marcinkowskiego, 
Wielkopolskie Centrum Onkologii w Poznaniu.

Over the years the incidence of malignant melanoma in Poland as well as in other 
countries has been continuously increasing. Surgery is a treatment of choice in 
the early stages of primary lesions. Advanced malignant melanoma however is 
resistant to chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Therefore there is a need for new, 
more effective treatments. In the last years biotherapy such as immunotherapy is 
focusing a lot of attention. Unfortunately, systemic administration of 
immunostimulatory factors is very often associated with severe side effects. 
Thus, concepts of specific immunotherapies such as immunogene therapy have been 
developed. Currently, various gene therapy strategies of malignant melanoma are 
being evaluated in multiple clinical trials carried out all over the world. They 
include gene modified cancer vaccines (GMTV) modified with genes encoding (i) 
cytokines or (ii) costimulatory molecules and dendritic cells modified with 
(iii) genes encoding tumor antigens or (iv) immunostimulatory factors. Since 
January 1996 in Department of Cancer Immunology USOMS, at GreatPoland Cancer 
Center in Poznan, Poland a GMTV has been tested in malignant melanoma patients. 
For the last 6 years more than 220 patients were enrolled into study of GMTV 
consisting of melanoma cells modified with genes encoding IL-6 and its agonistic 
soluble receptor (sIL-6R). More than 25% of objective clinical responses and 
significant life extension were observed. The encouraging results formed a basis 
for design of a phase III prospective, randomized clinical study.

PMID: 12094637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Semin Oncol. 2002 Jun;29(3 Suppl 10):28-32. doi: 10.1053/sonc.2002.33758.

Cost-effectiveness considerations in the treatment of essential thrombocythemia.

Golub R(1), Adams J, Dave S, Bennett CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Fernberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL, USA.

Factors that influence the choice of anagrelide, hydroxyurea, or interferon-alfa 
(IFN-alpha) for treatment of essential thrombocythemia include efficacy, 
toxicity, and cost. Anagrelide has the US Food and Drug Administration's 
approval to be used for treating patients with thrombocythemia secondary to 
chronic myeloproliferative disorders. In contrast, the use of IFN-alpha and 
hydroxyurea are considered "off-label." We performed an incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis to compare anagrelide, hydroxyurea, and IFN-alpha 
for treating essential thrombocythemia, in terms of estimated impact on life 
expectancy. The case used for this analysis was of a 40-year-old man with 
essential thrombocythemia. Clinical assumptions were based on information 
obtained from nonrandomized clinical trials, and the economic assumptions were 
derived from information abstracted from observational studies. Lifelong 
treatment use of anagrelide versus hydroxyurea would cost approximately $72,000 
per additional year of life gained, while the use of IFN-alpha was found to be 
both more costly and less effective than anagrelide. The results were very 
sensitive to the risk of leukemia caused by hydroxyurea, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness of anagrelide compared with hydroxyurea of $156,969 per 
additional year of life gained if the lifetime leukemia risk drops from a 
baseline of .08 to.05. Given that many commonly used medical interventions cost 
in the range of $50,000 to $100,000 per year of life gained, and the generally 
poor outcome associated with treatment-related leukemia that can result from 
hydroxyurea, anagrelide could be considered a therapeutic alternative that is 
clinically effective at an acceptable cost.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/sonc.2002.33758
PMID: 12096355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Adv Gerontol. 2002;9:54-66.

[Bio-physico-chemical aspects of aging and longevity].

[Article in Russian]

Voeƒ≠kov VL(1).

Author information:
(1)Moscow State University, Moscow. vvl@soil.msu.ru

Currently two types of theories of aging are generally recognized: the genetic 
and the free radical theories. Each of them allow to explain plasibly some 
particular features of the aging process and pathologies associated with it. 
However, there are some phenomena related to aging and longevity that are not 
easily interpreted in frames of both theories; in particular, the increase of 
the life span of animals following caloric restriction, or beneficial effects of 
reactive oxygen species on multiple living functions, etc. On the other hand, 
the mostly unknown principles of theoretical biology suggested by E.S. Bauer in 
1930s allow to explain from the monistic basis the essence of those and many 
other phenomena related to development, aging and longevity. The major 
postulates of the Bauer's theory and the corollaries of them are reviewed with 
the emphasis on the specifically biological phenomenon discovered by Bauer, the 
so called "Basic Process". The latter allows to find the means for the 
significant extension of the active life span. Taking Bauer's principles into 
consideration we contemplate the modern data on the peculiarities of free 
radical processes in living systems giving rise to electron excited species 
generation as the energy-informational foundation for the build up of an 
organism's resources for the counteraction of most pathological factors. The 
needfulness to employ these considerations for the resolution of the problems of 
gerontology is substantiated.

PMID: 12096439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Adv Gerontol. 2002;9:67-72.

[Aging of the pineal gland].

[Article in Russian]

Khavinson VKh(1), Golubev AG.

Author information:
(1)St. Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, 3, Dynamo pr., 
Saint-Petersburg, Russia.

The age-related changes in the pineal gland are functional rather than organic, 
which makes their correction or prevention more tenable. The amelioration or 
inhibition of some age-related impairments of the pineal gland were observed 
with dietary restriction and the use of S-adenosylmethionine or MAO-A 
inhibitors. A threefold increase in nocturnal melatonin peaks occurs in old 
rhesus monkeys treated with a synthetic peptide Ala-Glu-Asp-Gly (Epithalon) 
designed basing on the amino acid content of a pineal peptide extract 
Epithalamin. Other effects of Epithalon markedly overlap with melatonin effects. 
Besides life extension in mice and fruit flies, Epithalon effects include the 
postponing vision loss in Campbell rats with hereditary pigmental dystrophy. A 
uniting aspect of such a range of activities might be the participation of 
transcription factors, since they are often highly conservative in evolution 
and, on the other hand, may be strictly tissue-specific. The targets of 
Epithalon may include transfactors that in mammals are specific for the pineal 
gland and retina and exhibit impaired functions in the aged pineal gland.

PMID: 12096440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Bone Miner Res. 2002 Jul;17(7):1237-44. doi: 10.1359/jbmr.2002.17.7.1237.

International variations in hip fracture probabilities: implications for risk 
assessment.

Kanis JA(1), Johnell O, De Laet C, Jonsson B, Oden A, Ogelsby AK.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Center for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield 
Medical School, United Kingdom.

It is recommended that intervention thresholds should be based on absolute 
fracture risk, but there is a large variation in hip fracture incidence from 
different regions of the world. The aim of this study was to examine 
heterogeneity of hip fracture probability in different regions from recent 
estimates of hip fracture incidence and mortality to adjust intervention 
thresholds. Ten-year probabilities of hip fracture were computed in men and 
women at 10-year intervals from the age of 50 years and lifetime risks at the 
age of 50 years from the hazard functions of hip fracture and death. Lifetime 
risk at the age of 50 years varied from 1% in women from Turkey to 28.5% in 
women from Sweden. High lifetime risks in women were associated with high 
lifetime risks in men (r = 0.83). There also were significant correlations of 
10-year risk at any age between men and women. Ten-year probability was 
standardized to that of men and women from Sweden (set at 1.0). There was a 
15-fold range in 10-year probability from 1.24 in Norway to 0.08 in Chile. 
Countries were categorized by 10-year probabilities comprising very high risk 
(Norway, Iceland, Sweden, Denmark, and the United States), high risk (China 
[Taiwan [TW]], Germany, Switzerland, Finland, Greece, Canada, The Netherlands, 
Hungary, Singapore, Italy, United Kingdom, Kuwait, Australia, and Portugal), 
medium risk (China [Hong Kong [HK]], France, Japan, Spain, Argentina, and 
China), and low risk (Turkey, Korea, Venezuela, and Chile). The categorization 
of hip fracture probabilities can be used to adjust intervention thresholds 
based on age, sex, and relative risk from a reference population such as Sweden.

DOI: 10.1359/jbmr.2002.17.7.1237
PMID: 12096837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Virol. 2002 Aug;76(15):7495-505. doi: 10.1128/jvi.76.15.7495-7505.2002.

Analysis of deletion mutants indicates that the 2A polypeptide of hepatitis A 
virus participates in virion morphogenesis.

Cohen L(1), B√©nichou D, Martin A.

Author information:
(1)Unit√© de G√©n√©tique Mol√©culaire des Virus Respiratoires, URA CNRS 1966, 
Institut Pasteur, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France.

Unlike all other picornaviruses, the primary cleavage of the hepatitis A virus 
(HAV) polyprotein occurs at the 2A/2B junction and is carried out by the only 
proteinase encoded by the virus, 3C(pro). The resulting P1-2A capsid protein 
precursor is subsequently cleaved by 3C(pro) to generate VP0, VP3, and VP1-2A, 
which associate as pentamers. An unidentified cellular proteinase acting at the 
VP1/2A junction releases the mature capsid protein VP1 from VP1-2A later in the 
morphogenesis process. Although these aspects of polyprotein processing are well 
characterized, the function of 2A is unknown. To study its role in the viral 
life cycle, we assessed the infectivity of synthetic, genome-length RNAs 
containing 11 different in-frame deletions in the 2A region. Deletions in the 
N-terminal 40% of 2A abolished infectivity, whereas deletions in the C-terminal 
60% resulted in viruses with a small-focus replication phenotype. C-terminal 
deletions in 2A had no effect on RNA replication kinetics under one-step growth 
conditions, nor did they have an effect on capsid protein synthesis and 
3C(pro)-mediated processing. However, C-terminal deletions in 2A altered the 
VP1/2A cleavage, resulting in accumulation of uncleaved VP1-2A precursor in 
virions and possibly accounting for a delay in the appearance of infectious 
particles with these mutants, as well as a fourfold decrease in specific 
infectivity of the virus particles. When the capsid proteins were expressed from 
recombinant vaccinia viruses, the N-terminal part of 2A was required for 
efficient cleavage of the P1-2A precursor by 3C(pro) and assembly of structural 
precursors into pentamers. These data indicate that the N-terminal domain of 2A 
must be present as a C-terminal extension of P1 for folding of the capsid 
protein precursor to allow efficient 3C(pro)-mediated cleavages and to promote 
pentamer assembly, after which cleavage at the VP1/2A junction releases the 
mature VP1 protein, a process that appears to be necessary to produce highly 
infectious particles.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.76.15.7495-7505.2002
PMCID: PMC136361
PMID: 12097562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2002 Jun;28(3):277-84. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-32663.

First and next generation native rFVIII in the treatment of hemophilia A. What 
has been achieved? Can patients be switched safely?

Suiter TM(1).

Author information:
(1)Aventis Behring GmbH, Marburg, Germany. tobias.suiter@aventis.com

The introduction of plasma-derived human factor VIII (FVIII) and later human 
recombinant FVIII (rFVIII) has potentially allowed patients suffering from 
hemophilia A to have a quality of life and life expectancy similar to the 
population at large. One of the major achievements in molecular biology over the 
past 15 years was the sequencing of the gene coding for FVIII, leading 
eventually to the ability to isolate the human gene for FVIII and transfect 
cells to produce human rFVIII. The first rFVIII products, which are native 
full-length FVIII molecules, have proved to have an excellent efficacy and 
safety profile in patients with hemophilia A. Initial concerns about a potential 
increased inhibitor formation have not been confirmed so far but long-term 
pharmacovigilance of inhibitor formation is still ongoing. To date, no 
transmission of hepatitis or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) attributable to 
rFVIII products has been reported. However, a theoretical risk of transmission 
of infectious disease does exist as long as nonsynthetic proteins are used 
during the production process. The next-generation native rFVIII has been 
developed to minimize the exposure of patients to animal or human plasma-derived 
proteins. This has been achieved through major changes to the process of 
production of rFVIII from baby hamster kidney cells (BHK). This change has 
included the introduction of a solvent/detergent step and, of more importance, 
the introduction of a purification procedure without using albumin as a 
stabilizer. Finally, the rFVIII (BHK) is formulated using sucrose as the final 
stabilizer to produce the sucrose formulated rFVIII referred to as rFVIII-FS. 
This article summarizes the recently published pharmacokinetic, safety, and 
efficacy data for the native rFVIII-FS and compares its clinical profile with 
that of the first-generation rFVIII.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-32663
PMID: 12098089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Health Policy. 2002 Sep;61(3):329-47. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(02)00007-6.

Planning the efficient allocation of research funds: an adapted application of a 
non-parametric Bayesian value of information analysis.

Karnon J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health and Safety Laboratory, Broad Lane, Sheffield S3 7HQ, UK.

The issue of the efficient allocation of research funds has been addressed using 
various quantitative methods. Bayesian value of information (VoI) analysis 
provides an explicit and comprehensive analytic process for the comparison of 
alternative sources of research. This paper presents an adapted non-parametric 
application of a VoI analysis of prospective trials comparing alternative 
adjuvant therapies for postmenopausal women with node positive early breast 
cancer. The results show that such trials would produce substantial net 
benefits, though the extent of the net benefits is clearly influenced by the 
assumed length of usefulness of the research. The application of the VoI 
methodology shows that such analyses are practical and the recent increase in 
the use of stochastic decision models in the economic evaluation of health care 
technologies facilitates further applications of VoI analyses to inform the 
allocation of research funds.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(02)00007-6
PMID: 12098524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2002 Jul;43(1):77-92. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(01)00193-7.

Cancer of the anal region.

Licitra L(1), Spinazz√© S, Doci R, Evans TR, Tanum G, Ducreux M.

Author information:
(1)START Project, European School of Oncology, Milan, Italy. 
start@icil64.cilea.it

Cancer of the anal region represents 3-3.5% of all anorectal tumours. The peak 
incidence is between 58 and 64 years. Since 1960 an increased incidence among 
men younger than 45 years, and among women has been observed. The number of 
women diagnosed with anal canal cancer (7 per 1,000,000 person per years) is 
twice as much as that of men, while anal margins cancers are more frequent in 
men (4 per 1,000,000 person per years). Tumour extension determines the 
different treatment strategies, aiming at definite cure, with a conservative 
approach. Small tumours can be resected without mutilating surgery, while for 
larger tumours combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is the standard 
treatment, even though a combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy has been 
recently introduced. Long-term quality of life (QOL) scores are acceptable, with 
the exception of patients who experience severe anal dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(01)00193-7
PMID: 12098609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Bull Cercle Benelux Hist Pharm. 2002 Apr;(102):6-29.

[Just swallow: four centuries of doctors and medicines in Cura√ßao].

[Article in Dutch]

Rutten F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for the History of European Expansion, Leiden University, 
ruttenamg@wxs.nl

The author focuses on how medicine, pharmacy and health care evolved in Cura√ßao 
(The Netherlands Antilles) in the last 40 years. By relating the global history 
of medicine he describes the introduction and influence of medicine, pharmacy 
and medical theories on the island. He also looks at the illnesses that 
manifested themselves there and gives statistics of life expectancy and 
population growth.

PMID: 12099303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2002 Jul 19;295(3):644-50. doi: 
10.1016/s0006-291x(02)00730-1.

Somatic mutations in the p53 gene account for the extension of replicative life 
span of macaque cells.

Shimizu Y(1), Ishida T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, University of 
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

To identify the underlying molecular bases that enable macaque cells to extend 
their replicative life span (RLS), somatic mutations in p53 were studied in two 
Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata) and one long-tailed macaque (Macaca 
fascicularis) cell strains with extended RLS. Nucleotide sequences of the p53 
whole coding region of each species were determined in early passaged cells and 
somatic mutations were studied in cells with extended RLS. Different type of 
genomic alteration which may disrupt normal p53 function was observed in each 
strain: (1) introduction of a premature stop codon in one chromosome and loss of 
heterozygosity for the other; (2) introduction of a missense mutation into each 
chromosome independently; (3) generation of a novel splice donor site to delete 
four amino acid residues in the presence of silencing of the normal p53 gene. 
Critical roles of p53 in cellular aging among macaques in terms of extension of 
RLS were demonstrated.

(c) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA).

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-291x(02)00730-1
PMID: 12099687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc. 2002 Aug;9(3):272-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1074-3804(05)60403-3.

Factors influencing long-term outcome of loop endometrial resection.

P√©rez-Medina T(1), Haya J, Frutos LS, Arenas JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Santa Cristina University Hospital, 
C/O'Donnell, 59, 28009 Madrid, Spain.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To analyze factors that contribute to long-term success of loop 
endometrial resection (ER).
DESIGN: Observational cohort study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2).
SETTING: Tertiary care university hospital.
PATIENTS: Two hundred eighty-six premenopausal women with menometrorrhagia 
resistant to medical treatment.
INTERVENTION: Loop endometrial resection.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 47 months. Life table analysis 
with log rank test was determined to calculate the risk of hysterectomy after 
ER. Patient age, length of follow-up, adenomyosis, and uterine size were 
analyzed independently. More than 75% of patients benefited from the procedure, 
avoiding hysterectomy after 5 years.
CONCLUSION: Length of follow-up, patient age, and the presence of adenomyosis 
strongly influence the long-term success of ER. The procedure should be 
considered an intermediate step between medical treatment and hysterectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-3804(05)60403-3
PMID: 12101321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 May;60 Suppl 5:433-7.

[Merits of multidisciplinary treatment in lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawahara M(1).

Author information:
(1)National Kinki Central Hospital for Chest Diseases, Clinical Research Center.

PMID: 12101708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Value Health. 2002 Jul-Aug;5(4):312-28. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54145.x.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of long-term management strategies for 
heartburn.

Goeree R(1), O'Brien BJ, Blackhouse G, Marshall J, Briggs A, Lad R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario L8N 1G6, Canada. goereer@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: To compare the expected costs and outcomes of seven alternative 
long-term primary care strategies for the management of patients with 
moderate-to-severe heartburn over a 1-year period.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to estimate costs and effects 
(weeks with heartburn symptoms and quality adjusted life years [QALYs]) for each 
strategy. Meta-analyses were used to synthesize acute treatment and maintenance 
studies and physician surveys to collect information on patient management. The 
impact of uncertainty on the base case results was assessed using probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis. Probability distributions were defined for key model 
parameters and techniques of Monte Carlo simulation were used to draw values 
from these distributions. Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves (CEACs) 
conditional on the monetary value decision makers are willing to pay for a 
symptom-free day or QALY were created for each strategy.
RESULTS: In the base case, no strategy was strictly dominated by any other 
strategy. However, two strategies (maintenance H2-receptor antagonists H2RA] and 
step-down proton pump inhibitor PPI]) were dominated through principles of 
extended dominance. The least costly and least effective strategy was 
intermittent H2RA, while maintenance PPI was the most costly and most effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis showed that the best way of managing patients with 
heartburn depends on how much society is willing to pay to achieve health 
improvements. Based on the commonly quoted threshold of US 50,000 dollars per 
QALY, the optimal primary care strategy for managing patients with 
moderate-to-severe heartburn symptoms is to treat the symptoms with a PPI 
followed by maintenance therapy with an H2RA to prevent symptomatic recurrence.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54145.x
PMID: 12102694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Value Health. 2002 Jul-Aug;5(4):338-46. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54134.x.

Conditions for the near equivalence of cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit 
analyses.

Bala MV(1), Zarkin GA, Mauskopf JA.

Author information:
(1)Centocor, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355, USA.

The equivalence of cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and cost-benefit analysis 
(CBA) has been vigorously debated in the health economic literature. In this 
paper we review and refine the conditions for the equivalence of CEA and CBA. 
The previously stated conditions require that 1) each individual's willingness 
to pay (WTP) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is constant and does not vary 
with the magnitude of QALY gains, and 2) the WTP per QALY is identical for every 
individual in society. Based on mathematical programming formulations of CEA and 
CBA, we note that condition 2 can be replaced with two other conditions, which 
together are less restrictive than the requirement that every individual have 
the same WTP per QALY. Even with this less restrictive set of conditions, CEA 
and CBA are unlikely to be equivalent under real world conditions. When CEA and 
CBA do lead to different resource allocation decisions, the most appropriate 
framework for health economic analysis depends on the perspective regarding 
distribution issues. We also examine the equivalence of two different 
definitions of CEA provided in the literature and discuss the problems that 
could arise when there are multiple optima.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54134.x
PMID: 12102696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Value Health. 2002 Jul-Aug;5(4):359-71. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54142.x.

Comparing cost-effectiveness analyses of anti-hypertensive drug therapy for 
decision making: mission impossible?

Mullins CD(1), Blak BT, Akhras KS.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Pharmacy, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA. 
dmullins@rx.umaryland.edu

The purpose of this literature review was to compare the methodology used in the 
most recently published cost-effectiveness studies of antihypertensive 
treatments, and to identify methodological strengths and weaknesses that 
indicate the study's potential as a useful, decision-making tool. Based on the 
results of a search of several databases, spanning the years 1995 to 2000, 10 
cost-effectiveness studies were identified. Although the majority of the studies 
reported their cost-effectiveness ratio in "costs per year of life gained," the 
studies also considered a varying range of components including additional end 
points. The methodology used to measure effectiveness, the cost variables 
included, and the characteristics of the patient population varied significantly 
across studies. Due to this lack of conformity, it would be difficult, if not 
impossible, to compare the results and draw conclusions about the relative 
cost-effectiveness of different types of antihypertensive drug therapies. This 
lack of uniform comparison across studies is likely to draw criticism from both 
the clinical and health-care decision-making communities. Future studies within 
this field should be thorough and useful for decision making. It is suggested 
that short-term outcomes should include systolic and diastolic blood pressure 
measurements and long-term outcomes should include end points such as myocardial 
infarction, stroke, congestive heart failure and renal events. Other positive 
outcomes such as a more favorable side-effect profile, should be used to enhance 
the primary outcomes. Additionally, when subpopulations are considered in 
submodels, studies should address the issue of generalizability. Cost 
calculations should be transparent and related to the perspective of the study. 
Modeling the cost-effectiveness of a drug may be an acceptable method provided 
that data sources and assumptions are valid and transparent.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2002.54142.x
PMID: 12102698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Periodontol 2000. 2002;29:79-103. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0757.2002.290105.x.

Periodontal diseases in Africa.

Baelum V, Scheutz F.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0757.2002.290105.x
PMID: 12102704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2002 Jul 3;40(1):49-55. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(02)01914-9.

Projected life-expectancy gains with statin therapy for individuals with 
elevated C-reactive protein levels.

Blake GJ(1), Ridker PM, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention, Cardiovascular Division, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to estimate the potential gains in life expectancy 
achieved with statin therapy for individuals without overt hyperlipidemia but 
with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels.
BACKGROUND: Persons with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels below 
current treatment guidelines and elevated CRP levels are at increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease and may benefit from statin therapy.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to estimate the gains in life 
expectancy with statin therapy for individuals without overt hyperlipidemia but 
with elevated CRP levels. The annual risks of myocardial infarction (MI) and 
stroke, as well as the efficacy of statin therapy, were based on evidence from 
randomized trials. Estimates of prognosis after MI or stroke were derived from 
population-based studies.
RESULTS: We estimated that 58-year-old men and women with CRP levels >or=0.16 
mg/dl but LDL cholesterol <149 mg/dl would gain 6.6 months and 6.4 months of 
life expectancy, respectively, with statin therapy. These gains were similar to 
those for patients with LDL cholesterol >or=149 mg/dl (6.7 months for men and 
6.6 months for women). In sensitivity analyses, we identified the baseline risk 
of MI and the efficacy of statin therapy for preventing MI as the most important 
factors in determining the magnitude of benefit with statin therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that individuals with elevated CRP levels, many 
of whom do not meet current National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines 
for drug treatment, may receive a substantial benefit from statin therapy. This 
analysis supports a crucial need for direct intervention trials aimed at 
subjects with elevated CRP levels.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(02)01914-9
PMID: 12103255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Affect Disord. 2002 May;69(1-3):109-18. doi:
10.1016/s0165-0327(01)00310-x.

Economic, clinical, and quality-of-life outcomes associated with olanzapine 
treatment in mania. Results from a randomized controlled trial.

Namjoshi MA(1), Rajamannar G, Jacobs T, Sanger TM, Risser R, Tohen MF, Breier A, 
Keck PE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly & Co., Indianapolis, IN, USA. 
namjoshi_madhev@lilly.com

INTRODUCTION: The objectives of this study were to determine the economic, 
clinical, and quality-of-life outcomes associated with olanzapine treatment in 
patients diagnosed with mania.
METHODS: Patients with a diagnosis of bipolar I disorder with manic or mixed 
episodes were enrolled in a randomized controlled trial. The study design 
comprised a 3-week acute phase followed by a 49-week open label extension. In 
the open label extension, the use of lithium and fluoxetine was permitted for 
patients who experienced breakthrough symptoms. Clinical, economic, and 
quality-of-life outcomes of treatment were assessed.
RESULTS: During the acute phase, olanzapine patients experienced a statistically 
significant greater mean improvement from baseline on the Y-MRS total score 
compared to the placebo patients. In the open label extension, patients 
experienced a statistically significant mean change of 11.8 units on the Y-MRS 
from the end of the acute phase. When compared to costs incurred in the previous 
12 months of therapy, patients experienced savings of almost $900 per month 
during the 49 weeks of olanzapine therapy. These cost savings were largely 
driven by reductions in in-patient costs during the open label extension. 
Health-related quality of life improvements measured by the SF-36 were seen on 
several dimensions both in the 3-week acute phase as well as in the 49-week open 
label extension.
CONCLUSION: From a clinical, economic, and quality-of-life outcomes standpoint, 
olanzapine had a significant impact in the treatment of mania, and could be 
considered a cost-effective treatment option for use in this population if these 
findings are extrapolated to non-clinical trial populations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0327(01)00310-x
PMID: 12103458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Minerva Anestesiol. 2002 Jun;68(6):567-71.

[The phrenic nerve stimulator, a valid ventilatory support in the management of 
quadriplegic patients receiving home health care services. A case report].

[Article in Italian]

Giglio AM(1), Rovella C, Botindari E, Alba M.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Anestesia e Rianimazione Pediatrica, Ospedale dei Bambini G. Di 
Cristina, Palermo, Italy.

The authors describe the case of a quadriplegic child with post-traumatic 
respiratory insufficiency and total dependency on mechanical ventilation. The 
child was a long-term inpatient at the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit of Palermo. 
Considering the patient's long life expectancy, psychological distress and 
determination of the patient and family members to have the patient at home 
again, the plan for dehospitalization included the use of a phrenic stimulator 
as a supplement to conventional mechanical ventilation that would simplify home 
health care and improve the patient's quality of life. Electromyography, 
fluoroscopy and gas analysis were conducted to evaluate whether the patient was 
physically fit to receive a stimulator. The device was then implanted at the 
Spinal Cord Injury Treatment Unit in Sondalo. The stimulator is compact in 
design, operates silently, and affords more natural ventilation without 
interfering with breathing rhythm, and maintains muscle trophism. In combination 
with mechanical ventilation, the pacing device is an ideal system for home 
respiratory assistance. Additional benefits include increased patient mobility 
outside the home and improved quality of life. The system provides good 
respiration, as shown by EtCO2 and SpO2 measurements and long-term monitoring 
performed at our unit.

PMID: 12105414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. N S W Public Health Bull. 2001 May;12(5):126-130. doi: 10.1071/nb01038.

Socioeconomic differentials in life expectancy and years of life lost in 
Victoria, 1992-1996.

Vos T(1), Begg S, Chen Y, Magnus A.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Division, Department of Human Services, Victoria.

DOI: 10.1071/nb01038
PMID: 12105595


968. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Jul;87(7):3221-6. doi: 10.1210/jcem.87.7.8678.

Prospective study of the spontaneous course of subclinical hypothyroidism: 
prognostic value of thyrotropin, thyroid reserve, and thyroid antibodies.

Huber G(1), Staub JJ, Meier C, Mitrache C, Guglielmetti M, Huber P, Braverman 
LE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University Clinic of 
Medicine B, University Hospital Basel, Petersgraben 4, CH-4031 Basel, 
Switzerland. gerold.huber@unibas.ch

Subclinical hypothyroidism is a frequent syndrome affecting about 10 million 
people in the United States. The management of such patients is open to debate. 
In a long-term prospective study we analyzed the spontaneous course and the 
value of predictive factors in the development of overt thyroid failure. We 
studied 82 female patients with subclinical hypothyroidism prospectively over a 
mean observation period of 9.2 yr. TSH, thyroid hormones, thyroid reserve after 
TRH administration, thyroid antibodies, and clinical parameters were assessed at 
yearly intervals. The cumulative incidence of overt hypothyroidism was 
calculated using life-table analysis and Kaplan-Meier curves. According to the 
initial serum TSH concentrations (TSH, 4-6/>6-12/>12 mU/liter), Kaplan-Meier 
estimates of the incidence of overt hypothyroidism were 0%, 42.8%, and 76.9%, 
respectively, after 10 yr (P < 0.0001). When only patients with TSH levels 
greater than 6 mU/liter were analyzed, the cumulative incidence was 55.3%. The 
incidence of overt hypothyroidism increased in patients with impaired thyroid 
reserve (52.6% vs. 38.1%; P = 0.05) and positive microsomal antibodies (58.5% 
vs. 23.2%; P = 0.03). This prospective long-term study demonstrates that only a 
part of the cohort of patients with subclinical hypothyroidism develops overt 
hypothyroidism over time and that a major group remains in the subclinical state 
