after 10 yr. The measurement of TSH, microsomal (thyroperoxidase) antibodies, 
and thyroid reserve allows initial risk stratification for the development of 
overt thyroid failure (risk ratio ranging from 1.0-15.6). Our study helps to 
recognize the spontaneous course of subclinical hypothyroidism and in the 
identification of patients most likely to progress to overt hypothyroidism.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.87.7.8678
PMID: 12107228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2002 Jul;84(7):1138-41. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-200207000-00007.

Total knee arthroplasty in hemophilic arthropathy.

Norian JM(1), Ries MD, Karp S, Hambleton J.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2003 May;85-A(5):965; author reply 965.
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2003 May;85-A(5):969; author reply 969-70.

BACKGROUND: Arthropathy of the knee frequently develops in patients with 
hemophilia, who may require a total knee arthroplasty at a young age. Hemophilic 
patients, who require regular intravenous replacement of coagulation factor, 
have a higher prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, which 
can compromise the outcome of the arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate prosthetic survival following total knee arthroplasty and identify 
factors associated with failures of the arthroplasties in hemophilic patients.
METHODS: The results of fifty-three total knee arthroplasties performed in 
thirty-eight patients (twenty-nine of whom were seropositive for HIV) to treat 
hemophilic arthropathy between 1976 and 1998 were retrospectively reviewed. 
Inpatient and outpatient medical records were studied to determine the HIV 
status, CD4 lymphocyte count, type of prosthesis, duration of prosthetic 
survival, cause of failure, and cause of death. If an arthroplasty failed, the 
outcome of the treatment of the failed arthroplasty was also determined.
RESULTS: The rate of survival of the prostheses was 90% after five years. Eleven 
total knee arthroplasties failed. The most common cause of failure was infection 
(seven knees), which developed at an average of sixty months (range, three to 
138 months) after the arthroplasty. There was no significant difference in the 
CD4 lymphocyte counts between the patients in whom infection developed and those 
in whom it did not. The HIV status also did not appear to be related to the 
development of infection. Thirteen patients died, and the most common cause of 
death was complications associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
(AIDS).
CONCLUSIONS: Total knee arthroplasty performed to treat hemophilic arthropathy 
has a high risk of failure as a result of infection. Most infections developed 
late and were frequently caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis, suggesting that a 
likely cause of failure due to infection was hematogenous spread during 
administration of coagulation factor. It may be difficult to salvage a 
prosthesis complicated by infection. However, the life expectancy of hemophilic 
patients is lower than that of the general population of patients treated with 
total knee arthroplasty, and the improvement in the quality of life after total 
knee arthroplasty for hemophilic arthropathy may outweigh the risk of failure.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-200207000-00007
PMID: 12107312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Osteoporos Int. 2002;13(6):456-60. doi: 10.1007/s001980200054.

Spinal performance and functional impairment in postmenopausal women with 
osteoporosis and osteopenia without vertebral fracture.

Tsauo JY(1), Chien MY, Yang RS.

Author information:
(1)School and Graduate Institute of Physical Therapy, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, ROC. jytsauo@ccms.ntu.edu.tw

Previous studies have paid much attention to the impact on functional impairment 
or quality of life from vertebral fractures secondary to osteoporosis, but 
little research has addressed the function of osteoporotic women without 
fractures. The purposes of this study were: (1) to describe spinal performance 
and functional impairment in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and 
osteopenia without vertebral fracture, and (2) to investigate the relationship 
between them. Thirty postmenopausal women diagnosed as having osteoporosis or 
osteopenia were recruited who fulfilled the following criteria: (1) menopause 
for at least 6 months; (2) no vertebral fracture; (3) no medication that would 
interfere with calcium intake. Measurements included assessment of functional 
impairment and spinal performance including trunk extension/flexion isokinetic 
strength, spinal range of motion (ROM) and movement velocity in three planes 
(sagittal, frontal and transverse). The results showed that spinal ROM and 
velocity were significantly reduced in the osteoporosis group compared with the 
osteopenia group ( p<0.05), but no significant difference in trunk strength was 
shown. Functional impairment level showed a slight difference between the two 
groups ( p = 0.042). There was a significant correlation between spinal ROM and 
motion velocity with bone mineral density; however, functional impairment 
correlated with motion velocity only in the transverse plane (trunk rotation) ( 
p<0.05). Spinal strength did not show any correlation with other parameters. It 
was concluded that spinal motion performance declined and functional impairment 
increased in relation to the severity of bone mineral loss in postmenopausal 
women without vertebral fracture, but their physical performance was not 
correlated with functional impairments.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200054
PMID: 12107658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Br J Cancer. 2002 Jul 15;87(2):161-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600446.

A double-blind placebo-controlled, randomised study comparing gemcitabine and 
marimastat with gemcitabine and placebo as first line therapy in patients with 
advanced pancreatic cancer.

Bramhall SR(1), Schulz J, Nemunaitis J, Brown PD, Baillet M, Buckels JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Liver Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham B15 
2TH, UK. S.R.Bramhall@bham.ac.uk

Pancreatic cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer death in the western 
world and the prognosis for unresectable disease remains poor. Recent advances 
in conventional chemotherapy and the development of novel 'molecular' treatment 
strategies with different toxicity profiles warrant investigation as combination 
treatment strategies. This randomised study in pancreatic cancer compares 
marimastat (orally administered matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor) in 
combination with gemcitabine to gemcitabine alone. Two hundred and thirty-nine 
patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer were randomised to receive 
gemcitabine (1000 mg m(-2)) in combination with either marimastat or placebo. 
The primary end-point was survival. Objective tumour response and duration of 
response, time to treatment failure and disease progression, quality of life and 
safety were also assessed. There was no significant difference in survival 
between gemcitabine and marimastat and gemcitabine and placebo (P=0.95 log-rank 
test). Median survival times were 165.5 and 164 days and 1-year survival was 18% 
and 17% respectively. There were no significant differences in overall response 
rates (11 and 16% respectively), progression-free survival (P=0.68 log-rank 
test) or time to treatment failure (P=0.70 log-rank test) between the treatment 
arms. The gemcitabine and marimastat combination was well tolerated with only 
2.5% of patients withdrawn due to presumed marimastat toxicity. Grade 3 or 4 
musculoskeletal toxicities were reported in only 4% of the marimastat treated 
patients, although 59% of marimastat treated patients reported some 
musculoskeletal events. The results of this study provide no evidence to support 
a combination of marimastat with gemcitabine in patients with advanced 
pancreatic cancer. The combination of marimastat with gemcitabine was well 
tolerated. Further studies of marimastat as a maintenance treatment following a 
response or stable disease on gemcitabine may be justified.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600446
PMCID: PMC2376102
PMID: 12107836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Br J Cancer. 2002 Jul 15;87(2):194-201. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600437.

Intratumoural and peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets in patients with 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma undergoing interleukin-2 based immunotherapy: 
association to objective response and survival.

Donskov F(1), Bennedsgaard KM, Von Der Maase H, Marcussen N, Fisker R, Jensen 
JJ, Naredi P, Hokland M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark. 
fd@microbiology.au.dk

The aim of the present study was to analyse lymphocyte subsets in consecutive 
peripheral blood samples and consecutive tumour tissue core needle biopsies 
performed before and during interleukin-2 based immunotherapy, and to correlate 
the findings with objective response and survival. Twenty-six patients with 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma were treated with low dose s.c. interleukin-2, 
interferon-alpha and histamine. A total of 250 blood samples and 62 core needle 
biopsies from 23 and 19 of these patients, respectively, were analysed. After 2 
weeks of treatment, a significant positive correlation between absolute number 
of peripheral blood lymphocytes (P=0.028), CD3 (P=0.017), CD57 (P=0.041) and 
objective response was demonstrated. There was no correlation between any 
peripheral blood leukocyte subsets and survival. Cytotoxicity of peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells was not correlated to objective response or survival. 
Within the tumour tissue at baseline, a significant positive correlation between 
CD4 (P=0.027), CD8 (P=0.028), CD57 (P=0.007) and objective response was 
demonstrated. After one month of immunotherapy, a significant positive 
correlation between intratumoral CD3 (P=0.026), CD8 (P=0.015), CD57 (P=0.009) 
and objective response was demonstrated. A significant positive correlation 
between intratumoral baseline CD4 (P=0.047), baseline CD57 (P=0.035), CD3 at one 
month (P=0.049) and survival was demonstrated. These data provide novel in vivo 
evidence of the possible contribution of lymphocyte subsets in the tumour 
reduction in responding patients during interleukin-2 based immunotherapy. 
Confirmation of the results requires further studies including a larger number 
of patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600437
PMCID: PMC2376103
PMID: 12107842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Eur Respir J. 2002 Jun;19(6):1072-8. doi: 10.1183/09031936.02.00287102.

Resistance versus endurance training in patients with COPD and peripheral muscle 
weakness.

Spruit MA(1), Gosselink R, Troosters T, De Paepe K, Decramer M.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Rehabilitation and Respiratory Division, University Hospital 
Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

The effects of endurance training on exercise capacity and health-related 
quality of life (HRQL) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients 
have been studied thoroughly, while resistance training has been rarely 
evaluated. This study investigated the effects of resistance training in 
comparison with endurance training in patients with moderate to severe COPD and 
peripheral muscle weakness (isometric knee extension peak torque <75% 
predicted). Forty-eight patients (age 64+/-8 yrs, forced expiratory volume in 
one second 38+/-17% pred) were randomly assigned to resistance training (RT, 
n=24) or endurance training (ET, n=24). The former consisted of dynamic 
strengthening exercises. The latter consisted of walking, cycling and arm 
cranking. Respiratory and peripheral muscle force, exercise capacity, and HRQL 
were re-evaluated in all patients who completed the 12-week rehabilitation (RT 
n=14, ET n=16). Statistically significant increases in knee extension peak 
torque (RT 20+/-21%, ET 42+/-21%), maximal knee flexion force (RT 31+/-39%, ET 
28+/-37%), elbow flexion force (RT 24+/-19%, ET 33+/-25%), 6-min walking 
distance (6MWD) (RT 79+/-74 m, ET 95+/-57 m), maximum workload (RT 15+/-16 Watt, 
ET 14+/-13 Watt) and HRQL (RT 16+/-25 points, ET 16+/-15 points) were observed. 
No significant differences in changes in HRQL and 6MWD were seen between the two 
treatments. Resistance training and endurance training have similar effects on 
peripheral muscle force, exercise capacity and health-related quality of life in 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients with peripheral muscle weakness.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.02.00287102
PMID: 12108859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2001;13 Suppl:S51-7.

Health development experience in North and South Korea.

Kim HJ(1), Ahn YS, Lee SG.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Science & Management, Yonsei University, C.P.O. Box 
8044, Seoul, Korea 120-752.

The purpose of this study is to compare the difference in health status between 
South Koreans and North Koreans and to identify factors responsible for the 
remarkable improvements in the health status of South Koreans. In order to 
examine the causes of the difference in health level, the health indices and 
their determinants of two Koreas were analyzed in time order. As of the year 
2000, the average life expectancy at birth is 71.0 years for men and 78.6 years 
for women in South Korea, which is longer than that of North Korea by 8.1 for 
men and 11.2 for women. Infant mortality rate in 1998 was 9.0 per 1,000 live 
births in South Korea and 54.0 in North Korea. Since being liberated from 
Japanese ruling in 1945, South Korea has achieved remarkable economic growth 
under democracy and a market economy system. On the other hand, North Korea has 
maintained a socialistic system. North Korea has suffered from economic crisis 
since the 1990s. From this point it could be said that economic status is the 
major factor for the differences in health level between the two Koreas. 
Economic status not only directly influences health level but also indirectly 
affects it through influences on nutrition, hygiene, health resources, and other 
intervening factors. The South Korean government has concentrated its limited 
resources on public health activities such as tuberculosis control, family 
planning (FP), and maternal and child health (MCH) programmes whereas the 
private sector has taken charge of constructing the health delivery system 
including health facilities and human resources. In order to solve the problem, 
which might occur in the private-oriented medical care system, the South Korean 
government has introduced the national health insurance programme and enforced 
regulation policies. Many developing countries which are suffering from poverty 
and disease, can learn from the experience of Korea that had suffered from 
similar problems up to the early 1970s.

PMID: 12109250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Urol Clin North Am. 2002 Feb;29(1):67-70. doi:
10.1016/s0094-0143(02)00018-6.

Prostate cancer and selenium.

Nelson MA(1), Reid M, Duffield-Lillico AJ, Marshall JR.

Author information:
(1)Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, 1515 North Campbell Avenue, 
Tucson, AZ 85724, USA. mnelson@azcc.arizona.edu

The important progress achieved in the treatment of prostate cancer comes by 
exacting significant costs [11, 16-18, 20, 23, 25]. Currently, there is 
incomplete evidence that the radical interventions at hand significantly reduce 
the human costs of the disease. Surgery and radiotherapy induce substantial 
risks of incontinence and impotence. The PSA test has probably decreased the 
stage at which prostate cancer is diagnosed [15]. Nonetheless, the PSA is a 
means of earlier detection; it does not elucidate quantitatively distinct modes 
of treatment. The PSA test is not a means of prostate cancer prevention. The 
continuing incidence, morbidity, and mortality imposed by this disease strongly 
indicate that preventive strategies for its control are necessary. 
Chemoprevention with selenium and other agents offers a promising approach that 
is undergoing intensive investigation. Randomized trials underway at the 
authors' center are building on the important clinical trial results reported by 
Dr. Larry C. Clark. These studies will evaluate the activity of selenium at 
several points along a continuum ranging from cancerous prostatic tissue in men 
with diagnosed cancer to premalignant tissue in men with high-grade PIN to 
healthy tissue in high-risk men with negative biopsy to long-term effects on 
cancerous tissue in men with frank cancer. These trials will also offer an 
opportunity for preliminary evaluation of the mechanisms by which selenium 
treatment could result in the slower development or progression of prostate 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-0143(02)00018-6
PMID: 12109357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Am J Ind Med. 2002 Jul;42(1):1-10. doi: 10.1002/ajim.10082.

An alternate characterization of hazard in occupational epidemiology: years of 
life lost per years worked.

Park RM(1), Bailer AJ, Stayner LT, Halperin W, Gilbert SJ.

Author information:
(1)Risk Evaluation Branch, Education and Information Division, National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA. rhp9@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and other measures of relative 
risk by themselves may not suffice as descriptors of occupational hazards for 
many audiences including decision-makers and those at direct risk from hazardous 
work. To explore other approaches, we calculated excess years of potential life 
lost and excess lifetime risk for both lung diseases and fatal injuries in a 
cohort of uranium miners with historical records of exposure to radon gas.
METHODS: We used relatively simple life table (SMR) methods and also analyzed 
lung cancer mortality with Poisson regression methods permitting control for 
smoking.
RESULTS: Among uranium miners hired after 1950, whose all-cause SMR was 1.5, 28 
percent would experience premature death from lung diseases or injury in a 
lifetime of uranium mining. On average, each miner lost 1.5 yr of potential life 
due to mining-related lung cancer, or almost 3 months of life for each year 
employed in uranium mining. As a consequence of all excess lung disease and 
injury risks combined, a year of mining was associated with 5.9 months loss of 
potential life. For each year actually working underground, miners lost more 
than 8 months of potential life. When controlled for smoking (and healthy worker 
effect) with Poisson regression, the estimates for radon-related lung cancer 
effects were slightly larger. Although chronic disease deaths dominated in 
excess years of life lost (due to radon, silica and possibly other exposures), 
more years were lost on average per individual injury death (38 yr), than per 
excess lung cancer (20 yr) or other lung disease death (18 yr). Fatal-injury 
dominated the potential years of life lost up to about age 40.
CONCLUSIONS: Years of life lost per years employed provides another, more 
intuitive summary of occupational mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.10082
PMID: 12111685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Bioessays. 2002 Jul;24(7):667-76. doi: 10.1002/bies.10113.

Is human aging still mysterious enough to be left only to scientists?

de Grey AD(1), Baynes JW, Berd D, Heward CB, Pawelec G, Stock G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EH, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Bioessays. 2003 Jan;25(1):93-4; author reply 94-5.

The feasibility of reversing human aging within a matter of decades has 
traditionally been dismissed by all professional biogerontologists, on the 
grounds that not only is aging still poorly understood, but also many of those 
aspects that we do understand are not reversible by any current or foreseeable 
therapeutic regimen. This broad consensus has recently been challenged by the 
publication, by five respected experimentalists in diverse subfields of 
biogerontology together with three of the present authors, of an article (Ann NY 
Acad Sci 959, 452-462) whose conclusion was that all the key components of 
mammalian aging are indeed amenable to substantial reversal (not merely 
retardation) in mice, with technology that has a reasonable prospect of being 
developed within about a decade. Translation of that panel of interventions to 
humans who are already alive, within a few decades thereafter, was deemed 
potentially feasible (though it was not claimed to be likely). If the prospect 
of controlling human aging within the foreseeable future cannot be categorically 
rejected, then it becomes a matter of personal significance to most people 
presently alive. Consequently, we suggest that serious public debate on this 
subject is now warranted, and we survey here several of the biological, social 
and political issues relating to it.

Copyright 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.10113
PMID: 12111727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Health Econ. 2002 Jul;11(5):389-402. doi: 10.1002/hec.677.

The benefits of switching smoking cessation drugs to over-the-counter status.

Keeler TE(1), Hu TW, Keith A, Manning R, Marciniak MD, Ong M, Sung HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of California, Berkeley 94720-3880, USA.

This paper provides an analysis of the benefits to society from the conversion 
of nicotine replacement drugs (nicotine patches and gum) in 1996 from sale by 
prescription only in the United States to over-the-counter (OTC) sales. To 
estimate these benefits, we first estimate statistical demand functions for 
nicotine patches and gum. Second, we calculate the effects of OTC conversion on 
sales of each type of nicotine replacement drug. Third, we survey the literature 
on the effects of nicotine replacement drugs on total quits of cigarette 
smoking. Fourth, we survey the literature on the effects of quits achieved on 
expected lifespan, and on the estimated monetary value of longer lives from 
smoking cessation. Finally, we use all this evidence to calculate the value of 
the social benefits of the OTC conversion to the US. As a result of the OTC 
conversion, consumption of nicotine replacement drugs has increased 
substantially, by 78-92% for nicotine patches and 180% for nicotine gum. We 
estimate that the resulting increase in smoking cessation generated annual net 
social benefits of the order of magnitude of 1.8-2 billion dollars, based on 
conservative estimates both of the number of quits achieved and the value of 
added quality-adjusted life years from the reduced smoking.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.677
PMID: 12112489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Health Econ. 2002 Jul;11(5):447-56. doi: 10.1002/hec.688.

A new explanation for the difference between time trade-off utilities and 
standard gamble utilities.

Bleichrodt H(1).

Author information:
(1)iMTA/iBMG, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bleichrodt@bmg.eur.nl

This paper gives a new explanation for the systematic disparity between standard 
gamble (SG) utilities and time trade-off (TTO) utilities. The common 
explanation, which is based on expected utility, is that the disparity is caused 
by curvature of the utility function for duration. This explanation is, however, 
incomplete. People violate expected utility and these violations lead to biases 
in SG and TTO utilities. The paper analyzes the impact on SG and TTO utilities 
of three main reasons why people violate expected utility: probability 
weighting, loss aversion, and scale compatibility. In the SG, the combined 
effect of utility curvature, probability weighting, loss aversion, and scale 
compatibility is an upward bias. In the TTO these factors lead both to upward 
and to downward biases. This analysis can also explain the tentative empirical 
finding that the TTO better describes people's preferences for health than the 
SG.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.688
PMID: 12112493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Nephrol. 2002 May-Jun;15(3):236-40.

Scleroderma at end stage renal disease in the United States: patient 
characteristics and survival.

Abbott KC(1), Trespalacios FC, Welch PG, Agodoa LY.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Service, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington DC 
20307-5001, USA. kevin.abbott@na.amedd.army.mil

BACKGROUND: The patient characteristics and mortality associated with 
scleroderma have not been characterized for a national sample of end stage renal 
disease (ESRD) patients.
METHODS: 364,317 patients in the United States Renal Data System initiated on 
ESRD therapy between 1 January 1992 and 30 June 1997 with valid causes of ESRD 
were analyzed in an historical cohort study of scleroderma.
RESULTS: Of the study population, 820 (0.22%) had scleroderma. The mean age of 
patients with scleroderma was 56.38 +/- 13.93 years vs. 60.48 +/- 16.51 years 
for patients with other causes of ESRD (p<0.01 by Student's t-test). In 
histogram analysis, there were two age peaks: 45-49 and 65-69. In logistic 
regression, patients with scleroderma, compared to patients with other causes of 
ESRD, were significantly more likely to be women, Caucasian, younger, and more 
likely to have congestive heart failure but less likely to have ischemic heart 
disease, stroke, and receive predialysis erythropoietin. The unadjusted two-year 
survival of patients with scleroderma during the study period was 49.3% vs. 
63.8% in all other patients (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.96, 95% CI 1.70-2.26, 
p=0.0001 by Cox Regression).
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with ESRD, the demographics of patients with 
scleroderma were similar to those of patients with scleroderma in the general 
population. Patients with scleroderma had decreased survival compared to 
patients with other causes of ESRD, despite being equally likely to be wait 
listed and receive renal transplantation adjusted for other factors.

PMID: 12113593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Lancet. 2002 Jul 6;360(9326):1.

The economics of HIV in Africa.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12114030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Jun;966:238-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb04221.x.

Post-menopause is the main risk factor for developing isolated pulmonary 
hypertension in systemic sclerosis.

Scorza R(1), Caronni M, Bazzi S, Nador F, Beretta L, Antonioli R, Origgi L, 
Ponti A, Marchini M, Vanoli M.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Immunology and Allergology Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore and 
University of Milan, Milan, Italy. raffaella.scorza@unimi.it

In scleroderma patients, isolated pulmonary hypertension (PHT) has been 
associated with selected HLA haplotypes, severe impairment of the diffusing 
capacity for carbon monoxide and the diagnosis of CREST. Most patients with 
CREST have a late-age onset of the disease, corresponding to the perimenopausal 
or postmenopausal period. We conducted a retrospective cohort study to determine 
the role of post-menopause and of the other known clinical and biological 
markers in the development of isolated pulmonary hypertension in Italian 
patients with systemic sclerosis. 189 female patients with scleroderma who had 
no ecographic signs of pulmonary hypertension (PHT) and radiographic signs of 
lung fibrosis at the first visit and did not develop significant pulmonary 
fibrosis during the observation time were included. Sixty-three out of 189 
patients (33.3%) presented isolated pulmonary hypertension. A severe impairment 
of diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide at admission was found to be an early 
predictive element for its development. An increased risk was associated with 
postmenopausal condition (RR = 5.2, p = 0.000), CREST syndrome (RR = 2.8, p = 
0.001) and haplotype HLA-B35 (RR = 2.8; p = 0.002). A significant positive 
interaction between postmenopausal condition and either HLA-B35 (RR = 15.2; p = 
0.000) or the diagnosis of CREST (RR = 14.1; p = 0.000) was found. 
Postmenopausal condition alone or in combination with HLA-B35 and CREST syndrome 
is the main risk-factor for developing primary pulmonary hypertension in 
scleroderma patients. This suggests that hormonal replacement therapy could play 
a role in preventing isolated PHT in patients with systemic sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb04221.x
PMID: 12114278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Cancer. 2002 Jul 1;95(1):8-14. doi: 10.1002/cncr.10640.

Carcinoma detection at the breast examination center of Harlem.

Liberman L(1), Freeman HP, Chandra S, Stein AL, McCord C, Godfrey D, Dershaw DD.

Author information:
(1)Breast Imaging Section, Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York 10021, USA. libermal@mskcc.org

BACKGROUND: Breast carcinoma is one of the leading causes of excess mortality 
rates in Harlem, an inner-city neighborhood with the highest mortality rates and 
worst life expectancy in New York City. This study reports the results of a 
breast carcinoma screening and diagnostic program in Harlem.
METHODS: Retrospective review was performed of a database of 49,750 visits to 
the Breast Examination Center of Harlem from 1995 to 2000. During this period, 
181 breast carcinomas were diagnosed in 178 women. The medical records of these 
178 women were reviewed to determine the method of detection, stage, and 
treatment.
RESULTS: Among these women, 89% were black or Hispanic, 45% had no medical 
insurance, and 38% had incomes below federal poverty guidelines. Breast 
carcinoma stage, known for 167 carcinomas, was Stage 0 in 38 (23%), Stage I in 
38 (23%), Stage II in 63 (38%), Stage III in 24 (14%), and Stage IV in 4 (2%). 
Fifty-six cases (34%) were minimal breast carcinomas. Of 181 breast carcinomas, 
122 (67%) were palpable and 59 (33%) were nonpalpable, detected only by 
mammography in asymptomatic women. Nonpalpable, as opposed to palpable, breast 
carcinomas were significantly more likely to be ductal carcinoma in situ (30 of 
55 [54%] vs. 8 of 112 [7%], P < 0.0000001) or minimal breast carcinoma (39 of 55 
[71%] vs. 17 of 112 [15%], P = 0.0000001) and were more likely to be treated 
with breast-conserving surgery (47 of 56 [84%] vs. 76 of 110 [69%], P < 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: A breast carcinoma screening and diagnostic program has been 
established in Harlem, a traditionally underserved area in New York City. Early, 
curable breast carcinomas were detected but outreach remains a challenge, 
particularly for the uninsured.

Copyright 2002 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10640
PMID: 12115310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Cancer. 2002 Jun 1;94(11):2906-13. doi: 10.1002/cncr.10532.

The economic burden of prostate cancer, California, 1998.

Max W(1), Rice DP, Sung HY, Michel M, Breuer W, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Aging, School of Nursing, University of 
California-San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94118, USA. 
wmax@itsa.ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy diagnosed among men in 
the United States. This article reviews previous studies of the annual cost of 
all cancers and of prostate cancer in the United States and California and 
estimates the direct and indirect costs of prostate cancer in California in 
1998.
METHODS: Hospitalization costs, including costs of primary and secondary 
diagnoses of prostate cancer, were derived from the California Hospital 
Discharge data set (CHDS). Charges were converted to costs using hospital 
specific cost-to-charge ratios and an imputed cost for Health Maintenance 
Organization hospitalizations. Other direct medical costs were derived from the 
1997 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey. Indirect mortality costs are the product 
of the number of deaths and the expected value of a male's future earnings 
taking into account age at death, earning patterns at successive ages, labor 
force participation, imputed value of housekeeping services, and a 3% discount 
rate.
RESULTS: Prostate cancer direct health care costs in California were estimated 
at 180 million dollars, and lost productivity from premature death was estimated 
at 180 million dollars, for a total cost of 360 million dollars in 1998. The 
disease is largely one of older men; hospitalization costs account for 
three-fifths of total direct costs, and Medicare and private health insurance 
share almost equally in paying for hospital care.
CONCLUSIONS: It is critical to identify cost-effective screening efforts that 
permit early detection of prostate cancer to reduce illness, premature deaths, 
and the high costs of prostate cancer.

Copyright 2002 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10532
PMID: 12115378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Int J Cancer. 2002 Jul 10;100(2):199-205. doi: 10.1002/ijc.10453.

Determinants of cervical cancer rates in developing countries.

Drain PK(1), Holmes KK, Hughes JP, Koutsky LA.

Author information:
(1)International Health Program, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public 
Health and Community Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

Although cervical cancer (CC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths in 
developing countries, incidence rates vary considerably, ranging from 3 to 61 
per 10(5) females. Identifying determinants of high vs. low rates may suggest 
population-level prevention strategies. CC rates for 175 countries were obtained 
from the IARC. Country-specific behavioral, health, economic and demographic 
measures were obtained from United Nations agencies and other international 
organizations. Regression analyses performed for 127 low or medium developed 
countries identified both geography and religion as independently associated 
with high CC rates. Among behavioral measures, high fertility rates, early age 
at birth of first child and high teenage birth rates were significantly 
associated with high CC rates. Countries with high CC rates had fewer doctors 
per capita, less immunization coverage, more HIV infections and shorter life 
expectancies. CC rates also tended to be higher in countries with more spending 
on health and younger, less educated populations. Patterns of CC rates suggest 
that programmatic approaches, such as promoting delayed childbearing and sexual 
monogamy, may be appropriate interventions. For countries with high CC rates and 
some flexibility in their health-care budgets, a once-in-a-lifetime screen of 
women 30-50 years of age, using Pap smears, direct visual inspection and/or HPV 
DNA testing, may be cost-effective. Finally, relatively low immunization rates 
and a shortage of health-care workers in countries with high CC rates suggest 
potential challenges for introducing prophylactic HPV vaccines.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.10453
PMID: 12115570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. MMW Fortschr Med. 2002 May 30;144(22):41-4.

[The coronary heart disease factors obesity, faulty nutrition, smoking, 
inactivity. Give your patient the deciding motivation].

[Article in German]

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Kardiologie II, Herz-Zentrum, Südring 15, D-79189 Bad Krozingen.

Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease means recognizing risk factors 
and--as far as possible--eliminating them. Risk factors that can be influenced 
include smoking, a high-fat diet and lack of exercise which, by damaging the 
endothelium and causing atherosclerosis, can lead to myocardial infarction and 
stroke. It is estimated that 70-80% of all cardiovascular events could be 
avoided by adopting an optimized lifestyle. The rewards of implementing a more 
health-conscious way of life are improved quality of life and an increase in 
life expectancy of five to six years. The aim of the Germany-wide "CHD Scoring 
Week" lasting from 3 June to 7 June, organized in cooperation with the German 
Cardiological Society, is to promote a greater awareness of the need for primary 
prevention among both physicians and patients.

PMID: 12116572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Ital Heart J. 2002 Jun;3(6):339-47.

Life expectancy and quality of life in adult patients with congenital heart 
disease.

Daliento L(1), Mazzotti E, Mongillo E, Rotundo M, Dalla Volta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Padua Medical School, Padua, Italy. 
luciano.daliento@unipd.it

The survival and quality of life of patients with congenital heart disease have 
significantly improved in the last 20 years. This is due to more effective 
medical and surgical care. The new community of grown-up congenital heart 
patients consists of a few natural survivors with trivial congenital lesions or 
very rare complex cardiac abnormalities which are naturally compensated, and of 
more than 75% of patients who had been submitted to cardiac surgery during 
infancy or childhood. Clinical follow-up is however mandatory for many of them 
with scheduled times and types of exams to control the effects of sequelae and 
late complications, and to prevent deterioration and premature death because 
cardiac surgery may not have resulted in normality. Moreover, these patients 
have many needs and even more, many questions. Not giving a correct answer to 
each specific question reduces the entity of surgical success.

PMID: 12116797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Cancer Radiother. 2002 May;6(3):131-6. doi: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00160-9.

[What systematic work-up should be required for the patient with localized 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate?].

[Article in French]

Pommier P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de radiothérapie, centre Léon-Bérard, 28, rue Laënnec, 69373 Lyon, 
France. pommier@lyon.fnclcc.fr

The systematic work-up for patient with clinically localised prostate cancer 
must allow a reconciliation of all the necessary elements to propose one or 
several therapeutical options. The evaluation must take into account the life's 
expectancy, and must precise the cancer progression and prognostic factors. The 
life expectancy depends out age, performance status and comorbidities. Digital 
rectal exam, PSA and Gleason score analysis are systematic. These tests allow 
the specialist to decide whether or not to complete the progression work-up by 
bone scan and pelvic CT. This first work-up should define if a patient will 
benefit from some curative local treatment. In case of palliative treatment or 
deferred treatment, the work-up highlights the specialist to decide the medical 
supervision. Some exams, systematic or not, are very specific from each 
therapeutic modality considered; they allow to precise individually the efficacy 
and toxicity prognostic factors for each therapeutic strategy. The final 
therapeutic decision is based at first on this objective data even if they are 
probabilistic, and finally on informed patients preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00160-9
PMID: 12116836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Infez Med. 2001 Mar;9(1):5-6.

[New scenarios for medical science].

[Article in Italian]

Esposito S.

PMID: 12116953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Radiol Clin North Am. 2002 May;40(3):395-407. doi: 
10.1016/s0033-8389(01)00015-x.

Screening mammography: proven benefit, continued controversy.

Lee CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06520, USA. leec@biomed.med.yale.edu

Screening mammography, despite its limitations, remains the best means for 
diagnosing breast cancer in asymptomatic women. Regarding the continuing 
controversies concerning the age at which screening should start, evidence 
supports beginning regular screening at age 40 in women at average risk . 
Similarly, evidence suggests that the screening interval should be yearly, 
especially in younger women. Rather than an arbitrary age at which screening 
should stop, the decision on screening elderly women should be made on an 
individual basis, taking into account level of health and life expectancy. More 
work needs to be done on determining the optimum screening strategies for 
high-risk women. As to the interpretation of screening mammography, a certain 
level of observer variability and of false-negative and false-positive readings 
are inherent in the process. These should be kept to a minimum through efforts 
by the interpreting radiologist to improve performance through auditing of 
individual results and continuing education. The impact of double reading and 
computer-aided detection in the interpretation of screening mammograms warrants 
further evaluation in terms of efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Despite these 
continuing controversies, mortality from breast cancer in the United States has 
been decreasing steadily for the past 25 years. The magnitude of the decrease 
has been reported to range from 8% to 25%. Although some of this decrease may be 
attributable to improvements in the treatment of breast cancer, early detection 
through screening mammography has undoubtedly played a role in this mortality 
reduction. The controversies that surround the issue of screening should not 
detract from the fact that screening mammography has proved to save lives.

DOI: 10.1016/s0033-8389(01)00015-x
PMID: 12117183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Jan 1;34(1):155-9. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(95)00277-4.

Pelvic radiation therapy combined with hepatic artery chemotherapy for resected 
rectal carcinoma with liver metastases.

Robertson JM(1), Cha C, Andrews JC, Ensminger WD, Lawrence TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Michigan Medical Center, 
Ann Arbor, USA.

PURPOSE: Patients with hepatic metastases from rectal cancer treated with 
hepatic artery (HA) chemotherapy have a life expectancy great enough to be at 
risk for pelvic failure. Therefore, a treatment plan was developed for patients 
with resected rectal cancer and unresectable hepatic metastases, when the 
pathologic features of transmural invasion and perirectal lymph node metastases 
were present. Treatment consisted of concurrent pelvic radiation therapy (RT) 
and HA 5-fluorouracil (FUra), as systemic levels of FUra are achievable with HA 
administration, followed by HA fluorodeoxyuridine (FdUrd).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Fifteen patients were offered combined pelvic RT and HA 
FUra. Radiation was given to an initial dose of 45 Gy to the pelvis, followed by 
boost treatment for an additional 5.4-10.8 Gy. Concurrent HA chemotherapy was 
given using FUra or FUra/leucovorin administered in two cycles of 14 days for 
each cycle. If HA chemotherapy could not be done, then intravenous FUra was 
given during RT. Following completion of RT and HA FUra, patients were evaluated 
for treatment with HA FdUrd.
RESULTS: Eleven patients received concurrent HA FUra or FUra/leucovorin and 
pelvic RT. Of these, six continued to receive HA FdUrd after completion of RT, 
as five patients were found to have progressive hepatic disease. Four patients 
could not have therapy as outlined, but did receive pelvic RT with concurrent 
intravenous FUra (two patients), FUra/leucovorin (one patient), or sequential HA 
FUra (one patient). There were four pelvic recurrences at 1, 4, 14, and 17 
months after RT. One was the first site of progression, two occurred 
simultaneously with other failure, and one occurred after hepatic progression. 
The liver was the most frequent site of first progression (alone in seven 
patients; as a component of progression in four patients). Treatment was well 
tolerated with three Grade > or = 3 toxicities. The median survival was 14 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support the hypothesis that patients with metastatic 
rectal cancer are also at risk for pelvic recurrence. The frequency of hepatic 
progression supports continued aggressive therapy directed to this site. As 
systemic and regional therapy of metastatic rectal cancer improves, we 
anticipate that more patients will be at risk for a pelvic recurrence, making it 
increasingly important to explore the role of pelvic radiation therapy despite 
the presence of metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(95)00277-4
PMID: 12118545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Am J Transplant. 2002 Apr;2(4):355-9. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-6143.2002.20411.x.

The effect of pre-existing ischaemic heart disease on renal dysfunction in 
cardiac transplant recipients.

Abraham KA(1), McGorrian C, O'Kelly P, Neligan M, Woods AE, Conlon PJ, Donohoe 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Mater Misericordiae Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. 
abrahamka@hotmail.com

Renal dysfunction is a recognized complication of cardiac transplantation and 
can impact on the life expectancy of an already fragile population. A large 
proportion of these patients require transplantation because of the consequences 
of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) which, in turn, is often associated with 
ischaemic nephropathy. We studied the effect of IHD, diagnosed prior to 
transplantation, on the renal function of recipients who survived more than 
6months after surgery. Of the 168 patients transplanted in a single centre over 
15 years, 132 were included in the study. Renal dysfunction was defined as a 
serum creatinine consistently above 200 micromol/L (2.26 mg/dL). Analysis 
confirmed that IHD was an independent risk factor for developing renal 
impairment. In transplant recipients with IHD, closer monitoring is warranted to 
detect and prevent renal dysfunction or to retard its progression.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-6143.2002.20411.x
PMID: 12118858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Int J Mol Med. 2002 Aug;10(2):161-8.

Expression of minichromosome maintenance-2 in human malignant fibrous 
histiocytomas: Correlations with Ki-67 and P53 expression, and apoptosis.

Osaki M(1), Osaki M, Yamashita H, Shomori K, Yoshida H, Ito H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Organ Pathology, Department of Microbiology and Pathology, School 
of Health Science, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, Tottori, Japan.

This study examined the clinicopathological significance of minichromosome 
maintenance-2 (MCM2) expression in 38 human malignant fibrous histiocytomas 
(MFHs) and 36 benign fibrohistiocytic tumors (BFHTs) immunohistochemically, and 
in 9 human sarcoma or carcinoma cell lines, as well as 7 surgical specimens by 
Western blotting. MCM2 was detected in all the cell lines and surgical specimens 
as a single band at 120 kDa, while P53 expression was variable. Nuclear 
expression of MCM2 was noted in tumor but not mitotic cells of all the MFHs and 
26 (72.2%) of the BFHTs, the labeling indices (LIs) being 62.0% in the 28 
ordinary types, 38.5% in the 10 myxoid types, and 11.2% in the BFHTs with 
significant difference. Moreover, the LI was significantly higher for MCM2 than 
that for Ki-67 in the MFHs of both types (p<0.05). No correlation was noted 
between the MCM2-LI and P53 expression or apoptotic indices, which were 
significantly higher in the MFHs than BFHTs (p<0.01). These results indicate 
that MCM2 would correlate with cell proliferation rather than apoptosis in MFHs, 
and the expression is ubiquitous in proliferating cells, regardless of the 
expression of P53. Thus, MCM2 might be a reliable marker of proliferating cells 
in human MFH.

PMID: 12119552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Int J Mol Med. 2002 Aug;10(2):201-4.

Efficacy of long-term interferon therapy in chronic hepatitis B patients with 
HBV genotype C.

Sakai T(1), Shiraki K, Inoue H, Okano H, Deguchi M, Sugimoto K, Ohmori S, Murata 
K, Nakano T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Mie University School of Medicine, 
Tsu, Mie 514-8507, Japan.

Infection with Hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotype C predominates in Japan. We 
analyzed the efficacy of interferon (IFN) alpha or beta in the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis B patients with HBV genotype C and the clinical predictors for 
therapeutic response. Forty-three genotype C-infected, chronic hepatitis B e 
antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients (32 men and 11 women with a mean age of 
35.6+/-10.1 years) who had been treated with IFN therapy were retrospectively 
studied. The patients were classified into two treatment groups. Short-term 
therapy group was administered a 5-6 MU dose three times weekly for 4 weeks, and 
the long-term therapy group for 24 weeks. At the end of the follow-up period, 4 
(15%) of 27 short-term therapy group patients and 6 (38%) of 16 long-term 
therapy group patients had normalized serum ALT levels and seroconversion of 
HBeAg to anti-HBe (p=0.137). Multivariate analysis for parameters most important 
for the efficacy of IFN therapy was performed using Cox proportional hazard 
models in order to investigate the association between baseline characteristics 
of patients and the response to IFN treatment. As a result, the p-values of IFN 
treatment group and sex were <0.05, and both factors can be recognized as 
independent significant factors (relative risk, 2.93 and 2.53; p=0.027 and 
0.040, respectively). Furthermore, the cumulative rates of seroconversion of 
HBeAg to anti-HBe analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method was significantly higher 
in the female group (p=0.015) and in the long-term IFN therapy group (p=0.0046). 
In summary, long-term IFN therapy may be more effective than short-term IFN 
therapy for patients with chronic HBV genotype C infection.

PMID: 12119559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Neurosurg. 2002 Jul;97(1 Suppl):88-93. doi: 10.3171/spi.2002.97.1.0088.

Neural function preservation and early mobilization after resection of 
metastatic sacral tumors and lumbosacropelvic junction reconstruction. Report of 
three cases.

Salehi SA(1), McCafferty RR, Karahalios D, Ondra SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern University Medical School, 
Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, Illinois, USA. ssalehi@nwu.edu

The management of tumors that metastasize to the sacrum remains controversial. 
Typically, resection of such tumors and reconstruction of the lumbopelvic 
junction requires sacrifice of neural elements resulting in neurological 
dysfunction and prolonged periods of bed rest. This severely affects the quality 
of life in patients in whom there is frequently a limited life expectancy. The 
authors describe three patients who underwent subtotal resection of metastatic 
sacral tumors. Postoperatively, good outcome was demonstrated in all patients. 
The authors present a technique for debulking and reconstruction that provides 
immediate spinopelvic junction stability and allows for early mobilization. 
Quality of life is significantly improved compared with that resulting from 
either medical treatment or traditional surgery.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2002.97.1.0088
PMID: 12120658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Jul;17(7):737-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02751.x.

Hepatitis B: weighing the costs of treatment.

Angus PW.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.2002.02751.x
PMID: 12121501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2002;4(2):104-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00159.x.

Clinical experience of CNC-milled titanium frameworks supported by implants in 
the edentulous jaw: a 3-year interim report.

Ortorp A(1), Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)Prosthodontist, The Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health, Gothenburg, 
Sweden. Ortorp@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: The use of computer numeric controlled (CNC)-milled titanium 
frameworks is a new technique for framework fabrication, and few clinical 
reports have been made on this treatment modality.
PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to report the clinical performance of 
implant-supported prostheses with CNC-milled titanium frameworks in the 
edentulous jaw and to compare the results with prostheses provided with 
conventional cast frameworks during the first 3 years of function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A consecutive group of 126 edentulous patients were 
provided by random distribution with 67 prostheses with CNC-milled titanium 
frameworks in 23 upper and 44 lower jaws and 62 conventional prostheses with 
