gold-alloy castings in 31 upper and 31 lower jaws. Radiographic 1-year data and 
clinical 3-year data were collected for both the titanium and control group.
RESULTS: One prosthesis was lost in each group owing to loss of implants, and 
the overall 3-year prosthesis cumulative survival rate was 98.2% for both 
groups. Patients with smoking habits experienced significantly more implant 
failures than nonsmokers (p =.006). Few problems were observed. No metal 
fractures were seen in the test group, whereas two frameworks and one abutment 
screw fractured in the control group. Resin veneer fractures were the most 
common complication, with a slightly higher incidence observed in the control 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Computer numeric controlled-milled titanium frameworks can be used 
as an alternative to conventional castings in the edentulous jaw, presenting 
clinical performance similar to that of conventional cast frameworks during the 
first 3 years of function. key words: computer numeric controlled, implant 
supported, prostheses, titanium

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00159.x
PMID: 12121610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2002 May;13(2):287-308, ix. doi: 
10.1016/s1047-9651(01)00003-1.

Life care planning.

Katz RT(1), Delaney GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, St. Louis University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA. pianodoctor@pol.net

Physicians may be asked to help plan long-term needs of patients with 
catastrophic injury. It is crucial to know the life expectancy and be intimately 
familiar with the needs of the disabled person for whom one is planning. This 
article uses two diagnostic groups as models to illustrate the process: one a 
spinal cord injured adult and the other a child with cerebral palsy and mental 
retardation. We provide examples of some of the specific types of needs for 
these two groups of individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-9651(01)00003-1
PMID: 12122848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2002 May;13(2):309-22, ix. doi: 
10.1016/s1047-9651(01)00010-9.

Life expectancy determination.

Carroll A(1), Barnes M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Institute of Neurological Rehabilitation, Hunters Moor Regional 
Neurological Rehabilitation Centre, Hunters Road, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE2 4NR, 
UK. a.m.carroll@ncl.ac.uk

The estimate of life expectancy following a personal injury is probably one of 
the most important factors in determining the final quantum of damages. It is a 
calculation fraught with difficulties. This article endeavours to outline some 
general factors that aid prediction of life expectancy, and also discusses the 
evidence from the few long-term studies currently available.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-9651(01)00010-9
PMID: 12122849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. J Gravit Physiol. 2000 Dec;7(3):53-9.

Changes in muscle size and architecture following 20 days of bed rest.

Kawakami Y(1), Muraoka Y, Kubo K, Suzuki Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. 
kawakami@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Five healthy men carried out a program of head-down bed rest (BR) for 20 days. 
Before and after BR, a series of cross-sectional scans of the thigh were 
performed using magnetic resonance imaging, from which volumes of the quadriceps 
muscles were determined and physiological cross-sectional areas (PCSA) were 
calculated. Muscle thickness and pennation angles of the triceps brachii, vastus 
lateralis, and triceps surae muscles were also determined by ultrasonography. 
During BR, subjects performed unilateral isokinetic knee extension exercises 
every day. The contralateral limb served as a control. Decrease in PCSA after BR 
was greater in the control (-10.2 +/- 6.3%) than in the trained limb (-5.2 +/- 
4.2%). Among the quadriceps, vastus intermedius in the control limb was 
predominantly atrophied by BR with respect to the volume and PCSA, and the 
rectus femoris showed the greatest training effect and retained its size in the 
trained limb. Decreases in muscle thicknesses in leg muscles were not prevented 
by the present exercise protocol, suggesting a need for specific exercise 
training for these muscles. Neither trained nor control muscles showed 
significant changes in pennation angles in any muscles after BR, suggesting that 
muscle architecture does not change remarkably by muscle atrophy by up to 10%.

PMID: 12124185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2002 Jun;88(4):398-405.

[Kudo non-constrained elbow prosthesis for inflammatory and hemophilic joint 
disease: analysis in 30 cases].

[Article in French]

Chantelot C(1), Feugas C, Ala Eddine T, Migaud H, Gueguen G, Fontaine C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Orthopédie-Traumatologie B, Hôpital B, CHRU de Lille, place de 
Verdun, 59037 Lille Cedex.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: We analyzed retrospectively 30 Kudo non-constrained elbow 
prostheses to determine: 1) functional outcome and mobility, 2) frequency of 
loosening and any complications.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From 1992 to 1998, 30 Kudo total elbow arthroplasties were 
performed in 29 patients, mean age 55 years. Mean follow-up was 36 months. These 
patients had severe joint disease: rheumatoid arthritis for 24, psoriatic 
arthritis for 2, and hemophilic arthritis for 3. The 29 patients experienced 
severe pain before surgery.
RESULTS: At review, 21 elbows were pain free and the 9 others had only 
occasional pain. Among these 9 elbows, 3 exhibited a rupture of the humeral 
implant; one had already been revised but remained painful. One patient had a 
stiff painful elbow after reflex dystrophy and five others had pain but no other 
complication. Twenty-six patients were satisfied or very satisfied. Three 
patients were unsatisfied because of the humeral implant fracture. Mean mobility 
at last follow-up was: 128 degrees flexion, -35 degrees extension, 72 degrees 
pronation, and 74 degrees supination. Mean gain in flexion-extension was 15 
degrees and mean gain in pronosupination was 3 degrees. Pronosupination was 
greater than 100 degrees except for two patients. There was one immediate 
post-operative dislocation with failure of prolonged orthopedic treatment after 
reduction; this patient underwent revision reconstruction with repair of the 
ulnar collateral ligaments (plasty of the medial collateral ligament with a 
synthetic ligament). Painful movement of the radial stump was observed with one 
Kudo prosthesis and required resection to achieve cure. In all, there were 3 
fractures of the Kudo I prosthesis at the junction of the trochlea and the 
humeral stem. Among these patients, one underwent revision due to persistent 
pain, and two others with currently acceptable symptoms are awaiting revision. 
At last follow-up, we had: 1 ulnar loosening associated with cortical thinning 
facing the end of the ulnar implant that had migrated and showed a circular 
lucent line measuring > 1 mm and progressing; 9 unique ulnar lucent lines 
measuring<1 mm without progression at the proximal part of the implant (6 at the 
bone-cement interface and 3 at the bone-implant interface); 3 humeral 
radiolucent lines (<1 mm without progression) on the distal part of the Kudo II 
humeral stems corresponding to a zone without surfacing. We also observed 13 
cases of incomplete ossification between the humerus and ulna and among these 
13, 7 elbows had amplitudes of less than 100 degrees.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Elbow arthroplasty can restore a painless joint and 
maintain or improve elbow motion. The procedure is indicated when the joint 
disease impair daily life activities. Final mobility basically depends on the 
preoperative mobility. The bone stock remains the greatest problem with these 
resurfaced prostheses. The GUEPAR elbow prosthesis would appear to be more 
adapted due to the reconstruction of the trochlea. Resection of the radial head 
is a source of instability for elbow prostheses and should lead to the design of 
three-compartment prostheses.

PMID: 12124540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2002 May-Jun;42(3):331-6.

[Effect of low intensity pulsed laser radiation of basic parameters of aging in 
Drosophila melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Chernova GV(1), Vorsobina NV.

Author information:
(1)Tsiolkovski Kaluga State Pedagogical University, 248023 Russia.

The effect of the low-intensive impulse laser radiation (LILR) on the life span 
of Drosophila melanogaster has been studied. The flies at various stages of 
their life (larvae and imago) were exposed to LILR. The estimation of the effect 
of LILR was carried out on the basis of the analysis of the basis parameters of 
aging. We found out increasing as well as shortening effects of the life span. 
The direction of the effect depends on parameters of radiation, stage of 
development of irradiated individuals and their sex.

PMID: 12125274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Ann Nucl Med. 2002 Jun;16(4):263-71. doi: 10.1007/BF03000105.

Decision-tree sensitivity analysis for cost-effectiveness of whole-body FDG PET 
in the management of patients with non-small-cell lung carcinoma in Japan.

Kosuda S(1), Ichihara K, Watanabe M, Kobayashi H, Kusano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, National Defense Medical College, Namiki, 
Tokorozawa, Japan. nucleark@me.ndmc.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Whole-body 2-fluoro-2-D-[18F]deoxyglucose [FDG] positron emission 
tomography (WB-PET) may be more cost-effective than chest PET because WB-PET 
does not require conventional imaging (CI) for extrathoracic staging.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of WB-PET for the management of Japanese 
patients with non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) was assessed. Decision-tree 
sensitivity analysis was designed, based on the two competing strategies of 
WB-PET vs. CI. WB-PET was assumed to have a sensitivity and specificity for 
detecting metastases, of 90% to 100% and CI of 80% to 90%. The prevalences of M1 
disease were 34% and 20%. One thousand patients suspected of having NSCLC were 
simulated in each strategy. We surveyed the relevant literature for the choice 
of variables. Expected cost saving (CS) and expected life expectancy (LE) for 
NSCLC patients were calculated.
RESULTS: The WB-PET strategy yielded an expected CS of $951 US to $1,493US per 
patient and an expected LE of minus 0.0246 years to minus 0.0136 years per 
patient for the 71.4% NSCLC and 34% M1 disease prevalence at our hospital. PET 
avoided unnecessary bronchoscopies and thoracotomies for incurable and benign 
diseases. Overall, the CS for each patient was $833US to $2,010US at NSCLC 
prevalences ranging from 10% to 90%. The LE of the WB-PET strategy was similar 
to that of the CI strategy. The CS and LE minimally varied in the two situations 
of 34% and 20% M1 disease prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of a WB-PET strategy in place of CI for managing 
NSCLC patients is potentially cost-effective in Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03000105
PMID: 12126096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 Jul-Aug;8(4):18-9.

Reasons and recipes for longevity.

Siegel B.

Comment on
    Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 May-Jun;8(3):12-16, 125-34.

PMID: 12126164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 Jul-Aug;8(4):19.

Does longevity research marginalize mortality?

Shuch DJ.

Comment on
    Altern Ther Health Med. 2002 May-Jun;8(3):12-16, 125-34.

PMID: 12126166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2002 Apr-Jun;17(2):113-22. doi: 10.1002/hpm.662.

Assessment of the future resources and needs for hospitalization in Hong Kong 
SAR (Special Administrative District).

Yip PS(1), Law CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVES: To study the 'compression of morbidity' theory in the Hong Kong SAR 
by analysing the age and gender-specific hospitalization rates and the expected 
length of stay per patient for the period 1996-2000. 'Compression of morbidity' 
refers to the hypothesis that medical progress will reduce the duration of 
morbidity during life more significantly than increasing morbidity by extending 
life.
DESIGN: This is a retrospective study based on hospital admissions data from the 
Hospital Authority of Hong Kong which covers 93% of the patient population.
SETTING: Age and gender-specific hospitalization rates, expected length of stay 
and hospitalization needs for each specific age group in Hong Kong from 1996 to 
2000, are estimated.
MAIN RESULTS: There is no empirical support for compression theory; and there is 
no significant change in the hospital admission rates for the period 1996-2000. 
The total number of patient days is expected to increase by 80% because of the 
ageing effect alone. It is projected that the geriatric service will account for 
more than 60% of the hospital patient days utilization in 2029. The elderly 
dependency ratio will increase and the social burden for the next generation 
will be increased, as the working populations size continues to decrease due to 
low fertility in the Hong Kong SAR.
CONCLUSION: The health care burden on the government is large and increasing. It 
is therefore essential to make plans to deal with the ageing population, which 
is predicted to be at its highest in 2020. The rising effect of public 
expectations on hospital services exerts further pressure on demand.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.662
PMID: 12126208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Leuk Res. 2002 Sep;26(9):791-4. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00010-3.

Telomere length and heavy-chain mutation status in familial chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Ishibe N(1), Prieto D, Hosack DA, Lempicki RA, Goldin LR, Raffeld M, Marti GE, 
Caporaso NE.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, 
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, 6120 Executive Blvd, 
MSC 7236, Rockville, MD 20892, USA. ishiben@exchange.nih.gov

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2002 Sep;26(9):779-80.

We examined whether telomere lengths of peripheral blood mononuclear cells are 
associated with immunoglobulin gene usage in 21 familial chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia (CLL) patients. Subjects with unmutated V genes tended to have shorter 
telomeres than those with somatic mutations, especially after adjusting for age. 
Unlike V(H) mutation status, telomere length was not predictive for survival. 
Our results suggest that telomere length is associated with V(H) gene mutation 
status and provides further evidence that the biological basis of familial B-CLL 
is similar to that of sporadic patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00010-3
PMID: 12127552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Leuk Res. 2002 Sep;26(9):817-20. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00020-6.

Loss of heterozygosity of p16 correlates with minimal residual disease at the 
end of the induction therapy in non-high risk childhood B-cell precursor acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia.

Tutor O(1), Díaz MA, Ramírez M, Algara P, Madero L, Martínez P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Hospital de Parapléjicos, Toledo, Spain.

We evaluated the incidence of MTS1/p16 deletions by loss of heterozygosity (LOH) 
analysis in 36 non-high risk B-cell precursor childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (BCP-ALL) and correlated these results with clinical features and with 
the presence of minimal residual disease (MRD) at the end of induction therapy. 
LOH was analyzed using three microsatellite markers flanking the p16 gene. MRD 
was studied by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for IgH and TCRdelta genes. 
All patients were classified and treated according to the BFM-86 protocol. A 
slower response to the induction treatment (MRD) was associated with LOH of p16 
and worse clinical outcome. Thus, LOH of p16 may be a marker of chemotherapy 
resistance among the children classified as non-high risk BCP-ALL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00020-6
PMID: 12127556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Leuk Res. 2002 Sep;26(9):821-4. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00021-8.

Two groups of chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia: myelodysplastic and 
myeloproliferative. Prognostic implications in a series of a single center.

González-Medina I(1), Bueno J, Torrequebrada A, López A, Vallespí T, Massagué I.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología Clínica, Hospital General Vall d'Hebron, Po Vall 
d'Hebron 119-129, Barcelona, Spain. jabueno@hg.vhebron.es

The clinical records of 70 patients seen at our hospital between 1976 and 1998 
and diagnosed as suffering from chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) were 
reviewed in order to confirm the validity of the classification into two forms 
of disease that the French-American-British Co-operative Leukaemia Group (FAB) 
proposed in 1994: myelodysplastic (MD) and myeloproliferative (MP), depending on 
the peripheral white blood cell count (WBC) (less or more than 13 x 10(9)/l, 
respectively). After the rejection of incomplete records and lost to follow up 
patients, our study population consisted of 49 records. Our results confirm 
that, even though this classification is useful in order to separate two classes 
of patients, it is not enough to predict the prognosis in an accurate manner. A 
lot of studies have tried to find some prognostic factors, but the results have 
been discordant. The multivariate analysis of our group of patients showed three 
prognostic factors: serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) >1.5 times normal level, 
blasts in bone marrow >5%, and peripheral blood leukocytes >10 x 10(9)/l. A 
second multivariate analysis led us to distinguish two groups: high risk (2-3 
risk factors) and low risk (0-1 risk factors) (median survival 7 and 44 months, 
respectively) with a very high statistic significance (P<0.0001). This score 
should be applied to other series of CMML patients in order to confirm its 
validity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00021-8
PMID: 12127557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2002 Jul;10(7):518-27. doi: 10.1053/joca.2001.0513.

A prospective, randomized, pragmatic, health outcomes trial evaluating the 
incorporation of hylan G-F 20 into the treatment paradigm for patients with knee 
osteoarthritis (Part 2 of 2): economic results.

Torrance GW(1), Raynauld JP, Walker V, Goldsmith CH, Bellamy N, Band PA, Schultz 
M, Tugwell P; Canadian Knee OA Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. torrance@mcmail.mcmaster.ca

Comment in
    Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2003 May;11(5):377-8; author reply 379-81.

OBJECTIVE: Viscosupplementation with hylan G-F 20 has recently become registered 
for treatment of patients with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee in most parts of 
the world. The cost effectiveness and cost utility of this new therapeutic 
modality were determined as part of a Canadian prospective, randomized, 1-year, 
open-label, multicentered trial.
DESIGN: A total of 255 patients were randomized to 'Appropriate care with hylan 
G-F 20' (AC+H) or 'Appropriate care without hylan G-F 20' (AC). Costs (1999 
Canadian dollars) were collected from the societal viewpoint and included all 
costs related to OA of the knee and OA in all joints. Patients completed a 
number of outcomes questionnaires including the Western Ontario and McMaster 
Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 
(HUI3). Data were collected at clinic visits (baseline, 12 months) and by 
telephone (1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 months).
RESULTS: The AC+H group over the year had higher costs ($2125-$1415=$710, P< 
0.05), more patients improved (69%-40%=29%,P =0.0001), greater increases in HUI3 
(0.13-0.03=0.10, P< 0.0001) and increased quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
(0.071, P< 0.05). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $2505/patient 
improved. The incremental cost-utility ratio was $10000/QALY gained. Sensitivity 
analyses and a second cost perspective gave similar results.
CONCLUSION: The cost-utility ratio is below the suggested Canadian adoption 
threshold. The results provide strong evidence for adoption of treatment with 
hylan G-F 20 in the patients and settings studied in the trial.

Copyright 2002 OsteoArthritis Research Society International. Published by 
Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/joca.2001.0513
PMID: 12127831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2002 Aug;2(4):403-14. doi:
10.1016/s1471-4892(02)00184-4.

Drug inhibition of angiogenesis.

Madhusudan S(1), Harris AL.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK, Medical Oncology Unit, University of Oxford, The 
Churchill, Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals, OX3 7LJ, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the Western world. Though 
advances in cancer therapy and diagnosis have considerably improved life 
expectancy, the overall survival rate of patients still remains poor - 
disseminated cancer at presentation and acquisition of tumour resistance are two 
reasons for this. Angiogenesis is one of the crucial steps in the pathogenesis 
of tumours. Drug inhibition of angiogenesis is an area of intense research and 
at least 10000 cancer patients worldwide have received some form of experimental 
antiangiogenic therapy. More than 300 angiogenesis inhibitors have been 
discovered to date; 80 antiangiogenic drugs are currently in clinical trials, 12 
of which target the key angiogenic factor vascular endothelial growth factor. A 
convincing regression of tumours has been reported for drugs against this 
target. Antiangiogenic therapy has raised the hopes both of cancer sufferers and 
of the physicians looking after them. A concerted international effort by cancer 
researchers and the pharmaceutical industry will help to further develop this 
novel treatment strategy for cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s1471-4892(02)00184-4
PMID: 12127873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2002 Aug 1;53(5):1152-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)02858-4.

Freedom from castration: an alternative end point for men with localized 
prostate cancer treated by external beam radiation therapy.

Zietman A(1), Thakral H, Skowronski U, Shipley W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. azietman@partners.org

PURPOSE: Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is frequently given to men with 
localized prostate cancer. This study was designed to determine what proportion 
of men require subsequent ADT if their localized prostate cancer is first 
treated by radiation.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A retrospective review of the outcome of 768 men with 
T1-4NxM0 prostate cancer treated with external beam radiation at a single 
institution from 1988 to 1995. The median follow-up for the entire group was 5.8 
years. The end points analyzed were biochemical failure (3 successive rises in 
prostate-specific antigen) and ADT (either medical or surgical castration).
RESULTS: A total of 322 biochemical failure events occurred among the 768 
treated patients, and 187 began ADT during the period of observation. Fifty-four 
percent of men starting ADT did so without rebiopsy or radiographic evidence of 
persistent disease. The overall freedom from biochemical failure rate at 10 
years was 43.3% and the 10-year freedom from ADT rate was 56.3%. The 
corresponding values for the most favorable subgroup (T1-2a, Gleason sum 6, 
prostate-specific antigen <or=10 ng/mL) were 61.8% and 72.8%.
CONCLUSIONS: Curative therapy is often given to men with prostate cancer and a 
life expectancy of <10 years, even when a survival gain is not expected. One new 
measure of its value, if any, may be its efficacy in preventing a subsequent, 
potentially more morbid, therapy such as ADT. The results of this study showed 
that most men with early-stage prostate cancer do avoid ADT in the 10 years 
after radiation therapy. This rate is less than that seen in the few 
contemporary watchful-waiting series.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)02858-4
PMID: 12128115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2002 Aug;302(2):672-80. doi: 10.1124/jpet.302.2.672.

The endothelin A receptor antagonists PD 156707 (CI-1020) and PD 180988 
(CI-1034) reverse the hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in the perinatal lamb.

Coe Y(1), Haleen SJ, Welch KM, Liu YA, Coceani F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is considered an intermediary in the constrictor response of 
the pulmonary vasculature to hypoxia and, by extension, is assigned a prime role 
in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension. We report here the 
antihypertensive action in the conscious newborn lamb of two novel endothelin A 
receptor antagonists, sodium 2-benzo-[1,3]dioxol-5-yl-4- 
(4-methoxy-phenyl)-4-oxo-3-(3,4,5-trimethoxy-benzyl)-but-2- enoate (PD 156707) 
and 4-(7-ethyl-benzo[1,3]dioxol-5-yl)-1, 
1-dioxo-2-(2-trifluoromethyl-phenyl)-1,2-dihydro-1l6-benzo-[e][1,2]thiazine-3-carboxylic 
acid potassium (PD 180988), differing in chemical properties and half-life 
within the body. PD 156707 and PD 180988, given in the right atrium as a bolus 
followed by infusion, had little or no effect on pulmonary and systemic 
hemodynamics under normoxia. Conversely, they both reversed the pulmonary 
hypertension due to alveolar hypoxia while producing minor changes, or no change 
at all, in systemic vascular resistance. Furthermore, their pulmonary vascular 
effect outlasted administration. Pulmonary hypertension being elicited by 
infusion of the thromboxane A(2) analog, 9,11-epithio-11,12-methano-thromboxane 
A(2) (ONO-11113) was instead not amenable to ET(A)R inhibition. Blood levels of 
ET-1, which rose with hypoxia but not ONO-11113 treatment, were not changed by 
either antagonist. Consistent with findings in vivo, when using isolated 
pulmonary resistance arteries from term fetal lamb, PD 156707 curtailed the 
hypoxia- but not the ONO-11113-induced constriction. We conclude that PD 156707 
and PD 180988 are selective inhibitors of pulmonary vasoconstriction resulting 
from hypoxia. Our findings support the use of these or allied compounds in the 
management of pulmonary hypertension in the neonate.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.302.2.672
PMID: 12130731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Int Clin Psychopharmacol. 2002 Jul;17(4):145-60. doi: 
10.1097/00004850-200207000-00001.

Options for pharmacological management of obesity in patients treated with 
atypical antipsychotics.

Werneke U(1), Taylor D, Sanders TA.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Maudsley Hospital, London, UK.

Obesity is associated with considerable morbidity and decreased life expectancy. 
Weight gain is a commonly encountered problem associated with antipsychotic 
treatment. We reviewed the literature regarding the mechanisms of weight gain in 
response to these agents and eight substances implicated as potential obesity 
prevention or treatment: orlistat, sibutramine, fluoxetine, topiramate, 
amantadine, nizatidine and cimetidine, and metformin. Weight gain in response to 
antipsychotic treatment may be mediated through serotonergic, dopaminergic, 
adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic and glutaminergic receptors. Sex hormone 
dysregulation and altered insulin sensitivity have also been implicated. Two 
compounds, orlistat and sibutramine, have been shown to help prevent weight gain 
following a hypocaloric diet, but orlistat requires compliance with a 
fat-reduced diet, and sibutramine is unsuitable for patients taking serotonergic 
agents. The weight reducing effect of fluoxetine, even in conjunction with a 
hypocaloric diet, is only transient. Topiramate, amantadine and metformin may 
have adverse side-effects potentially outweighing the weight reducing potential. 
The effectiveness of cimetidine and nizatedine remains unclear. The hazards of 
these agents in a psychiatric population are discussed. It is concluded that the 
current evidence does not support the general use of pharmacological 
interventions for overweight patients treated with antipsychotic medication, 
although individually selected patients may benefit.

DOI: 10.1097/00004850-200207000-00001
PMID: 12131598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2002 Jul 1;27(13):1456-63; discussion 1463-4. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200207010-00016.

Quality of life and back pain: outcome 16.7 years after Harrington 
instrumentation.

Götze C(1), Liljenqvist UR, Slomka A, Götze HG, Steinbeck J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Muenster, Germany. 
chrgoetze@uni-muenster.de

STUDY DESIGN: A study on the quality of life of 82 patients with idiopathic 
scoliosis treated with Harrington instrumentation.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze long-term health-related quality of life and low back pain 
an average of 16.7 years after surgery.
SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND DATA: Quality of life evaluated by self-assessment 
questionnaires is an accepted outcome measure of surgical procedures. The 
purpose of this study was to evaluate the health status with the German version 
of internationally accepted and psychometrically tested questionnaires.
METHODS: Quality of life was measured with the Short Form-36 health profile. Low 
back pain was assessed using the Roland-Morris Questionnaire. Demographic data 
(age, sex, follow-up time), radiographic analysis (Kings classification, Cobb 
angle, extension and site of fusion), and rib cage deformity were correlated 
with these data. Radiologic parameters were analyzed longitudinally.
RESULTS: In comparison with the age-matched healthy population, there was no 
significant difference in the physical Short Form-36 scale (P = 0.98). 
Surgically treated patients showed significantly lower scores than at baseline 
in the psychologic Short Form-36 scale (P = 0.005); vitality (P < 0.001), 
general mental health (P = 0.003), and role activities because of emotional 
problems (P < 0.001) were significantly different from those of the age-matched 
population. Sixty-five (79.3%) of the 82 patients reported no or occasional back 
pain in the Roland-Morris Questionnaire. Five patients (6.1%) reported chronic 
back pain. Neither patient age at the time of surgery (P = 0.74) nor time of 
follow-up (P = 0.44), type of scoliosis (P = 0.56), or extent of fusion (P = 
0.12) was associated with health-related quality of life or pain. The size of 
the preoperative (P = 0.06) and postoperative (P = 0.12) curves and preoperative 
(P = 0.28) and postoperative (P = 0.7) rib cage deformities did not correlate 
with the data of the Short Form-36 scale and the Roland-Morris Questionnaire.
CONCLUSIONS: In comparison with the age-matched population, the long-term effect 
of surgery does not affect the physical quality of life. The psychologic health 
status is, however, significantly impaired. Neither the type of curve, the size 
of scoliosis, nor the rib cage deformity influences the data.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200207010-00016
PMID: 12131746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Minerva Pediatr. 2002 Aug;54(4):335-42.

Unresolved questions regarding the mediaeval child.

[Article in English, Italian]

Fanos V(1), Corridori M, Cataldi L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

PMID: 12131870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Biol Pharm Bull. 2002 Jul;25(7):880-4. doi: 10.1248/bpb.25.880.

Suppressive effect of Shichimotsu-koka-to (Kampo medicine) on pulmonary 
metastasis of B16 melanoma cells.

Ohno T(1), Inoue M, Ogihara Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Nagoya City University, Nagoya, Japan.

Shichimotsu-koka-to (SKT) is a Kampo (traditional Japanese herbal) medicine, 
which is used in Japan to treat hypertension and atherosclerosis. We 
investigated the inhibitory effect of SKT on experimental pulmonary metastasis 
of B16 melanoma cells. The intake of SKT at a dose of 430 mg/kg for 6 weeks from 
2 weeks before tumor inoculation significantly reduced the number of metastatic 
surface nodules in the lung and extended the life span. When the duration of SKT 
intake was examined, survival time was not affected by preintake before B16 
melanoma cell inoculation and was slightly extended by postintake after B16 
melanoma cell inoculation, although the life span was prolonged by intake 
throughout the experiment. To address the mechanism underlying the 
antimetastatic effect of SKT, we studied whether SKT modulated macrophage 
function, which is involved in killing tumor cells. The intake of SKT for 6 
weeks dose dependently increased nitric oxide (NO) production by macrophages 
following stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. The elevated NO was found to 
serve as a cytotoxic mediator against B16 melanoma cells in co-culture with 
macrophages. On the contrary, B16 melanoma-conditioned medium reduced NO 
production by macrophages. However, SKT treatment reversed the reduction in NO 
production by the conditioned medium significantly. These findings may suggest 
that macrophage function-modulating activity by SKT appears to underlie its 
antimetastatic activity, which leads to a decrease in the number of lung 
metastatic surface nodules and the extension of life span.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.25.880
PMID: 12132662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Proc Nutr Soc. 2002 May;61(2):151-64. doi: 10.1079/PNS2002159.

Nutrition Society Medal lecture. The role of the skeleton in acid-base 
homeostasis.

New SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nutrition and Food Safety, School of Biomedical & Life Sciences, 
University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, UK. s.new@surrey.ac.uk

Nutritional strategies for optimising bone health throughout the life cycle are 
extremely important, since a dietary approach is more popular amongst 
osteoporosis sufferers than drug intervention, and long-term drug treatment 
compliance is relatively poor. As an exogenous factor, nutrition is amenable to 
change and has relevant public health implications. With the growing increase in 
life expectancy, hip fractures are predicted to rise dramatically in the next 
decade, and hence there is an urgent need for the implementation of public 
health strategies to target prevention of poor skeletal health on a 
population-wide basis. The role that the skeleton plays in acid-base homeostasis 
has been gaining increasing prominence in the literature; with theoretical 
considerations of the role alkaline bone mineral may play in the defence against 
acidosis dating as far back as the late 19th century. Natural, pathological and 
experimental states of acid loading and/or acidosis have been associated with 
hypercalciuria and negative Ca balance and, more recently, the detrimental 
effects of 'acid' from the diet on bone mineral have been demonstrated. At the 
cellular level, a reduction in extracellular pH has been shown to have a direct 
enhancement on osteoclastic activity, with the result of increased resorption 
pit formation in bone. A number of observational, experimental, clinical and 
intervention studies over the last decade have suggested a positive link between 
fruit and vegetable consumption and the skeleton. Further research is required, 
particularly with regard to the influence of dietary manipulation using 
alkali-forming foods on fracture prevention. Should the findings prove 
conclusive, a 'fruit and vegetable' approach to bone health maintenance may 
provide a very sensible (and natural) alternative therapy for osteoporosis 
treatment, which is likely to have numerous additional health-related benefits.

DOI: 10.1079/PNS2002159
PMID: 12133196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 2002 May;41(5):291-4.

[Relative risk of death and life expectancy in low cardiovascular risk 
population].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao L(1), Zhou B, Li Y, Yang J, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Cardiovascular Institute and Fuwai Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100037, China.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the relationship between low cardiovascular disease (CVD) 
risk and the mortalities of coronary heart disease (CHD), stroke, cancer and all 
causes as well as life expectancy in Chinese population.
METHODS: CVD risk factors were surveyed in 1982 approximately 1985 for 30 
thousand male and female participants aged 35 approximately 59 from 10 Chinese 
population groups including 3 groups of factory workers, 6 groups of farmers and 
1 group of fishermen according a uniform protocol with standardized methods. 
Follow-up was carried out up to 1999 approximately 2000 and the causes of death 
were all documented. Low cardiovascular risk was defined as: SBP/DBP < 120/80 mm 
Hg without anti-hypertensive medication 2 weeks before the baseline survey, 
serum total cholesterol < 5.17 mmol/L, BMI > 18.5 but < 24 kg/m(2) and no 
smoking at baseline survey. Mortality rates of CHD and stroke, cancer and all 
causes the participants with low CVD risk were compared with the rest of the 
cohort and difference in life expectancy was estimated.
RESULTS: Out of the whole cohort of 30 560 participants, 24 900 with complete 
data were available for the present analysis. Among these, 4 542 participants 
(18.2%) were defined as low CVD risk group, including 959 (7.7%) men and 3 583 
(28.9%) women. During a follow-up of 15.2 years on average, 243 deaths including 
6 CHD, 15 stroke and 117 cancer deaths took place in low risk group, while 2 383 
deaths including 182 CHD, 333 stroke, and 934 cancer deaths occurred in rest of 
the cohort. Cox proportional hazards model adjusted for age showed that the 
relative risks of death of CHD, stroke, cancer and all causes in low risk group 
were 0.51 (95% CI: 0.19 approximately 1.37), 0.30 (95% CI: 0.11 approximately 
0.81), 0.86 (95% CI: 0.62 approximately 1.19) and 0.77 (95% CI: 0.62 
approximately 0.96) for men and 0.11 (95% CI: 0.03 approximately 0.45), 0.31 
(95% CI: 0.17 approximately 0.58), 0.84 (95% CI: 0.66 approximately 1.10) and 
0.67 (95% CI: 0.56 approximately 0.79) for women, respectively. Life expectancy 
was 2.6 years longer for men and 4.0 years longer for women in the low risk 
group.
CONCLUSION: The mortality rates of CVD and all causes were lower and life 
expectancy was longer in the participants with low CVD risk. Keeping low risk 
profile may not only prevent from having CVD but also extend life expectancy.

PMID: 12133418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2002 Aug;93(2):675-84. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00764.2001.

Alternate muscle activity observed between knee extensor synergists during 
low-level sustained contractions.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M, Masani K, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sports Sciences, Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School 
of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 153-8902, Japan. 
kouzaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

To determine quantitatively the features of alternate muscle activity between 
knee extensor synergists during low-level prolonged contraction, a surface 
electromyogram (EMG) was recorded from the rectus femoris (RF), vastus lateralis 
(VL), and vastus medialis (VM) in 11 subjects during isometric knee extension 
exercise at 2.5% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) for 60 min (experiment 
1). Furthermore, to examine the relation between alternate muscle activity and 
contraction levels, six of the subjects also performed sustained knee extension 
at 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0% of MVC (experiment 2). Alternate muscle activity among 
the three muscles was assessed by quantitative analysis on the basis of the rate 
of integrated EMG sequences. In experiment 1, the number of alternations was 
significantly higher between RF and either VL or VM than between VL and VM. 
Moreover, the frequency of alternate muscle activity increased with time. In 
experiment 2, alternating muscle activity was found during contractions at 2.5 
and 5.0% of MVC, although not at 7.5 and 10.0% of MVC, and the number of 
alternations was higher at 2.5 than at 5.0% of MVC. Thus the findings of the 
present study demonstrated that alternate muscle activity in the quadriceps 
muscle 1) appears only between biarticular RF muscle and monoarticular vasti 
muscles (VL and VM), and its frequency of alternations progressively increases 
with time, and 2) emerges under sustained contraction with force production 
levels < or =5.0% of MVC.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00764.2001
PMID: 12133879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Ambul Pediatr. 2002 Jul-Aug;2(4 Suppl):330-6. doi: 
10.1367/1539-4409(2002)002<0330:ceaaem>2.0.co;2.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and emergency medical services for children: issues 
and applications.

Tilford JM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's Hospital, 
Center for Applied Research and Evaluation, Little Rock 72202-3591, USA. 
tilfordmickj@uams.edu

Studies to assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative treatment or prevention 
strategies for children are far fewer than those for adults. This article 
highlights specific issues relevant to the conduct of cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) in pediatric populations following the recommendations of the US 
Panel on Cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine and discusses CEA 
applications relevant to emergency medical services for children. The article 
addresses whether patient time should be included in measures of costs, whether 
caregiver time costs are included and measured properly, and most importantly, 
whether the study can use quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as an outcome 
measure. Pediatric researchers may be unable to follow the panel's 
recommendations for including QALYs as an outcome measure in CEA studies 
involving young children. Developing preference weights applicable to young 
children may be a productive field for pediatric researchers. Without such 
efforts, the field of child health services research in general and the field of 
emergency medical services for children in particular will continue to lag 
behind adult fields in assessing the costs and outcomes of the services they 
provide.

DOI: 10.1367/1539-4409(2002)002<0330:ceaaem>2.0.co;2
PMID: 12135408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2002 Jun;19(6):592-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0924-8579(02)00114-0.

Urinary tract infection in patients with neurogenic bladder dysfunction.

Sauerwein D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro-Urology, Werner Wicker Klinik, Im Kreuzfeld 4, D-34537 
Bad Wildungen, Germany. sauerwein@uni-greifswald.de

Recurrent urinary tract infections (UTI) are a significant problem in all 
patients with neurogenic bladder leading to high morbidity, poor quality of life 
and a limited life expectancy. For the diagnosis of UTI, a urine specimen taken 
by bladder puncture or catheterization is required. In patients with neurogenic 
bladders, clinical symptoms and leukocyturia must be present together with 
bacteriuria in order to qualify as UTI. The spectrum of pathogens differs 
significantly from that in patients with normal bladder function. Culture and 
antimicrobial susceptibility testing must, therefore, be performed prior to the 
initiation of antibiotic therapy. This is also important in the prevention of 
the emergence of antimicrobial resistance. The main way to prevent recurrent UTI 
in the neurogenic bladder is by restoring the normal low-pressure reservoir 
function of the bladder and is the aim of neuro-urological management.

DOI: 10.1016/s0924-8579(02)00114-0
PMID: 12135853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Bull Cancer. 2002 Jun;89(6):619-34.

[Standards, options and recommendations for the management of prostate cancer: 
therapeutic decision criteria].

[Article in French]

Chatelard PP(1); Groupe De Travail Du.

Author information:
(1)101, rue de Tolbiac, 75654 Paris Cedex 13.

Erratum in
    Bull Cancer. 2002 Oct;89(10):875.

CONTEXT: The "Standards, Options and Recommendations" (SOR) collaborative 
project was initiated in 1993 by the Federation of the French Cancer Centres 
(FNCLCC), with the 20 French Regional Cancer Centres, several French public 
university and general hospitals, as well as private clinics and medical 
specialty societies. Its main objective is the development of serviceable 
clinical practice guidelines in order to improve the quality of health care and 
the outcome of cancer patients. The methodology is based on a literature review, 
followed by critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts. Draft 
guidelines are produced, then validated by specialists in cancer care delivery.
OBJECTIVES: Produce clinical practice guidelines for prostate cancer patients 
related to therapeutic main decision criteria, using the methodology developed 
by the Standards, Options and Recommendations project.
METHODS: The FNCLCC and the French Urology Society (AFU) set-up a 
multidisciplinary group of experts which reviewed the available evidence. 
Following the selection of pertinent articles, synthesis of the results, and 
production of the draft SOR, the document was validated by independent 
reviewers.
RESULTS: The main recommendations are: 1) Specific survival with a minimum of 15 
years follow-up, is required to assess the impact of a treatment for localised 
prostate cancer. 2) Ten-year metastatic-free survival is a good endpoint for 
assessing treatment efficacy for local cancer. 3) Complete remission is defined 
as undetectable PSA concentration (< 0.1 mug.L- 1). 4) Progression after radical 
prostactectomy, external-beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy is defined as an 
increase PSA concentration, measured in three successive determinations, at 
monthly intervals. 5) Clinical stage, Gleason score and pretherapeutic PSA 
concentration are the prognostic factors for locoregional involvement and 
therefore treatment response, which should be used as an aid for therapeutic 
decision-making.

PMID: 12135863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Health Policy Plan. 2002 Sep;17(3):257-63. doi: 10.1093/heapol/17.3.257.

What targets for international development policies are appropriate for 
improving health in Russia?

Lock K(1), Andreev EM, Shkolnikov VM, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)ECOHOST, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The OECD countries and the United Nations have agreed to co-ordinate 
their work around a series of International Development Targets. The targets for 
health are based on improvements in infant, child and maternal mortality. 
Progress towards these goals will be used to assess the effectiveness of 
development policies.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the potential impact of achievement of the International 
Development Targets on health in Russia, and to identify possible alternatives 
that may be more relevant to transition countries.
DESIGN: The study covered the population of the Russian Federation from 1995-99. 
The effects of reducing infant, child and maternal mortality on Russian life 
expectancy at birth were modelled using construction of life tables. Three 
scenarios were modelled, reducing rates to those of the best performing regions 
in Russia, those required to achieve the International Development Targets and 
current UK rates. The results were compared with the effect on life expectancy 
at birth of policies to reduce adult mortality in different ways.
RESULTS: Achieving the International Development Targets for infant, child and 
maternal mortality (66.7 and 75% reductions) will contribute very little to 
improving life expectancy in Russia (0.96 years). In contrast, even a 20% 
reduction in adult mortality would give rise to an increase in male life 
expectancy at birth of 1.86 years.
CONCLUSION: Targets for health improvement in transition countries such as 
Russia should take account of adult mortality as well as the indicators 
contained in the International Development Targets.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/17.3.257
PMID: 12135991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Health Policy Plan. 2002 Sep;17(3):264-72. doi: 10.1093/heapol/17.3.264.

The gender gap in primary health care resource utilization in Central Asia.

Cashin CE(1), Borowitz M, Zuess O.

Author information:
(1)Health Systems Research Group, Department of Tropical Hygiene and Public 
Health, University of Heidelberg, Germany. cheryl.cashin@urz.uni-heidelberg.de

There is a large gender gap in life expectancy in some countries of the former 
Soviet Union. Life expectancy of males is as much as 13 years less than that of 
females, and a significant portion of the excess male mortality is caused by 
cardiovascular disease. Although effective primary health care is necessary to 
manage cardiovascular disease and reduce acute episodes and mortality, the 
primary health care system is under-utilized by adult males in the region. This 
study combines disaggregated utilization data with cost data to analyze patterns 
of per capita primary care resource consumption in urban and rural regions of 
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The results show that both in absolute and per capita 
terms, the principal users of primary health are women of reproductive age and 
children under five. Based on a combination of utilization and cost of services, 
women of reproductive age consume approximately 1.5 times the average per capita 
primary health care resources, while men in the same age group consume 
approximately one-half of the average. Children under five consume about three 
to five times the average per capita primary care resources. Based on the 
results of the study, regional government health purchasers worked together with 
providers to develop a new per capita payment system with age/sex adjustments 
and incentives for outreach to bring adult men into the primary care system.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/17.3.264
PMID: 12135992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Genetics. 2002 Jul;161(3):1101-12. doi: 10.1093/genetics/161.3.1101.

Genetic analysis of tissue aging in Caenorhabditis elegans: a role for 
heat-shock factor and bacterial proliferation.

Garigan D(1), Hsu AL, Fraser AG, Kamath RS, Ahringer J, Kenyon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics and Program in Neuroscience, 
University of California-San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143-0448, USA.

The genetic analysis of life span has revealed many interesting genes and 
pathways; however, our understanding of aging has been limited by the lack of a 
way to assay the aging process itself. Here we show that the tissues of aging 
worms have a characteristic appearance that is easy to recognize and quantify 
using Nomarski optics. We have used this assay to determine whether life-span 
mutations affect the rate of aging, to identify animals that age more rapidly 
than normal, and to infer the cause of death in C. elegans. Mutations that 
reduce insulin/IGF-1 signaling double the life span of C. elegans, and we find 
that tissue decline is slowed in these mutants. Thus this endocrine system 
appears to influence the rate at which tissues age. This effect extends even to 
the germline, which is the only mitotically active tissue in the adult. We find 
that Nomarski microscopy also allows a ready distinction between short-lived 
mutants that age more rapidly than normal and those that are simply sick, and we 
have identified an RNAi clone that confers a dramatic rapid-aging phenotype. 
This clone encodes the C. elegans heat-shock factor (HSF), a transcription 
factor that regulates the response to heat and oxidative stress. This suggests 
that heat-shock proteins, many of which act as chaperones, may function in 
normal animals to slow the rate of aging. Finally, we have identified a cause of 
death of C. elegans: namely, proliferating bacteria. This suggests that 
increased susceptibility to bacterial infections contributes to mortality in 
