these animals, just as it does in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/161.3.1101
PMCID: PMC1462187
PMID: 12136014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Genetics. 2002 Jul;161(3):1197-208. doi: 10.1093/genetics/161.3.1197.

Temperature-sensitive paralytic mutants are enriched for those causing 
neurodegeneration in Drosophila.

Palladino MJ(1), Hadley TJ, Ganetzky B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706, USA. 
mjpalladino@facstaff.wisc.edu

Age-dependent neurodegeneration is a pathological condition found in many 
metazoans. Despite the biological and medical significance of this condition, 
the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration are poorly 
understood. The availability of a large collection of mutants exhibiting 
neurodegeneration will provide a valuable resource to elucidate these 
mechanisms. We have developed an effective screen for isolating 
neurodegeneration mutants in Drosophila. This screen is based on the observation 
that neuronal dysfunction, which leads to observable behavioral phenotypes, is 
often associated with neurodegeneration. Thus, we used a secondary histological 
screen to examine a collection of mutants originally isolated on the basis of 
conditional paralytic phenotypes. Using this strategy, we have identified 15 
mutations affecting at least nine loci that cause gross neurodegenerative 
pathology. Here, we present a genetic, behavioral, and anatomical analysis of 
vacuous (vacu), the first of these mutants to be characterized, and an overview 
of other mutants isolated in the screen. vacu is a recessive mutation located 
cytologically at 85D-E that causes locomotor defects in both larvae and adults 
as well as neuronal hyperactivity. In addition, vacu exhibits extensive 
age-dependent neurodegeneration throughout the central nervous system. We also 
identified mutations in at least eight other loci that showed significant levels 
of neurodegeneration with a diverse array of neuropathological phenotypes. These 
results demonstrate the effectiveness of our screen in identifying mutations 
causing neurodegeneration. Further studies of vacu and the other 
neurodegenerative mutants isolated should ultimately help dissect the 
biochemical pathways leading to neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/161.3.1197
PMCID: PMC1462168
PMID: 12136022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2002 Jul;122(6):315-23. doi:
10.1007/s00402-001-0358-3.  Epub 2001 Dec 12.

An economic evaluation of early versus delayed operative treatment in patients 
with closed tibial shaft fractures.

Sprague S(1), Bhandari M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Health Sciences Centre, Room 2C12, 1200 Main Street West, Hamilton, Ontario L8N 
3Z5, Canada.

There are few reports examining the effect of surgical delay on outcomes 
following operative treatment of lower extremity fractures. Delays in the 
surgery for closed tibial shaft fractures have been reported to increase the 
overall complication rate, postoperative hospital stays and crude costs to the 
health care system. Our purpose was to estimate the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility associated with the adoption of a programme of early operative 
treatment of all closed tibial shaft fractures. We performed cost analyses based 
upon data obtained from an observational study. A cohort of patients with closed 
tibial shaft fractures was identified at a university-affiliated level I trauma 
centre. Patients were divided into an early surgical group (within 12 h) and 
delayed surgical group (longer than 12 h). Study outcomes included time to 
fracture union (weeks), direct inpatient and outpatient costs associated with 
each intervention, loss of productivity costs, and utilities (patient health 
perception) as determined from content experts. Sixteen patients were operated 
on within 12 h of injury and 19 patients were treated later than 12 h after 
their fracture. These groups were similar for all baseline variables. The 
average time to fracture union was 28.2 weeks (SD 9.4) and 44.2 weeks (SD 7.4) 
for the early surgical group and the delayed surgical group, respectively ( 
p<0.01). When the costs associated with productivity losses were included in the 
cost-effectiveness analysis, savings were noted of 7,330 CD dollars per patient 
and of 458 CD dollars for each week that a fracture healed more quickly with 
early treatment. However, when the loss of patient productivity was not 
included, there was a cost per week of 67 CD dollars. A difference of 0.09 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) in favour of the early surgery was found, 
which yielded a savings of 81,444 CD dollars per QALY gained when the 
productivity losses were included and a cost per QALY of 11,922 CD dollars when 
the productivity losses were not included. Both cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility analyses were robust. Early plate fixation of closed tibial shaft 
fractures results in significantly shorter time to fracture union, fewer 
postoperative complications, significant cost effectiveness and greater QALYs 
gained when compared with delayed treatment. Inferences from this study are 
strengthened by the comprehensive abstraction of cost data and detailed 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-001-0358-3
PMID: 12136294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2002 May;25(3):235-51. doi: 10.1023/a:1015650517020.

Does hereditary metabolic disease modulate senescence and ageing?

Scriver CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University and McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. charles.scriver@mcgill.ca

Hereditary metabolic diseases in the context of evolutionary biology elicit 
interesting questions about ageing and senescence: Will persons successfully 
treated for inborn errors of metabolism, age and die prematurely because of 
compromised longevity? Because some unhealthy longevity has its origins in 
germline and somatic mutational processes, and in an inability to withstand 
metabolic stress, are there lessons to be learned about senescence from 
hereditary metabolic disease? Why are ageing, senescence and death necessary for 
Homo sapiens and how do they happen? These questions form the theme upon which 
several variations are played during the course of this essay. The theory of the 
disposable soma recognizes genomic and environmental events, well-seasoned by 
Chance, as determinants of ageing and senescence. Together, they cause the 
somatic damage that results in death. Genomics will reveal genes involved in 
longevity, both healthy and unhealthy. There will be schedules of gene 
expression behind our life-history traits. As in the field of hereditary 
metabolic disease, analogous genetic enquiries about ageing can be formulated. 
For example, how will heterozygotes age? Will association studies in 
centenarians reveal 'longevity genes'? Will disparate longevity in sib pairs 
reveal genetic factors? If there are 'ageing' mutations, of what types and with 
what effects? Will these initiatives lead to healthier longevity? A deeper 
question yet remains: why has human biology invested so greatly in 
grandparenthood?

DOI: 10.1023/a:1015650517020
PMID: 12137233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(15):1-109. doi: 10.3310/hta6150.

A systematic review of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
metal-on-metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty for treatment of hip disease.

Vale L(1), Wyness L, McCormack K, McKenzie L, Brazzelli M, Stearns SC.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6150
PMID: 12137721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(5):1-167. doi: 10.3310/hta6050.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of inhaler devices used in the 
routine management of chronic asthma in older children: a systematic review and 
economic evaluation.

Peters J(1), Stevenson M, Beverley C, Lim JN, Smith S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6050
PMID: 12137723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Urology. 2002 Aug;60(2):258-63. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)01712-0.

The ten-year rule revisited: accuracy of clinicians' estimates of life 
expectancy in patients with localized prostate cancer.

Krahn MD(1), Bremner KE, Asaria J, Alibhai SM, Nam R, Tomlinson G, Jewett MA, 
Warde P, Naglie G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto School of Medicine, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the accuracy of clinicians' predictions of life 
expectancy in patients with localized prostate cancer, when provided with 
information about age and comorbidity, and to determine whether life expectancy 
estimates predict the choice of initial treatment.
METHODS: A survey was sent by facsimile to 191 Canadian urologists and radiation 
oncologists asking them to estimate the life expectancy and choose the initial 
therapy (radical prostatectomy, radiation, or watchful waiting) for 18 patient 
scenarios: two prostate cancer scenarios, each with three ages and three levels 
of comorbidity.
RESULTS: Life expectancy estimates were accurate within 1 year of the 
projections of a Markov model for 31% of the clinicians' responses and accurate 
within 3 years for 67% of the responses. The average prediction error ranged 
from 2.4 to 5.2 years. The life expectancy was correctly estimated as being 
greater than or less than 10 years in 82% of responses. Ten years was the 
minimal life expectancy for recommending surgery and within the range (5 to 15 
years) in which radiation was recommended.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians can use age and comorbidity to predict the life 
expectancy of patients with localized prostate cancer with a modest degree of 
overall accuracy, but with sufficient accuracy to use the "10-year rule." Life 
expectancy estimates are strongly associated with treatment choice. The 
appropriateness of the 10-year rule remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)01712-0
PMID: 12137823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Med Princ Pract. 2002 Jul-Sep;11(3):117-25. doi: 10.1159/000063243.

New targets and drugs in cancer chemotherapy.

Szekeres T(1), Novotny L.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, University 
of Vienna Medical School, General Hospital of Vienna, Austria. 
thomas.szekeres@univie.ac.at

Cancer is still the number two cause of death in highly developed countries. Due 
to increased life expectancy, the number of cancer cases has also increased, and 
it is not likely that the incidence of this often fatal illness will decrease in 
the near future. Breast cancer, for instance, strikes 1 of 8 women in the 
industrialized world. Incidence of lung cancer increases due to smoking, while 
that of colon cancer increases with age. These are only a few examples 
highlighting the growing importance of strategies effective for cancer 
treatment. Despite surgical treatment and irradiation, chemotherapy remains one 
of the important means to treat cancer. Although many institutions and companies 
have tried to establish new treatment strategies such as immunotherapy or 
vaccination, the conventional chemotherapy still remains an important treatment 
option. In this review, we present an overview of new and innovative treatment 
strategies for cancer chemotherapy. A number of new targets as well as 
anticancer compounds are introduced and though we are well aware of the fact 
that the list is incomplete, we hope to be able to provide insight into this 
rapidly developing field.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000063243
PMID: 12138292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Rev Bras Enferm. 2000 Jul-Sep;53(3):431-4. doi:
10.1590/s0034-71672000000300011.

[People taking care of people: the art of caring through radio waves].

[Article in Portuguese]

Cunha IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Enfermagem, Universidade Santo Amaro e Coordenadora do Programa 
de Rádio Gente cuidando de Gente.

The nurse as a primary care provider professional participates actively in 
health education activities. Within the spoken language, the radio, because of 
its power of penetration, assumes an important role in the dissemination of 
health information. Thus, the School of Nursing at Santo Amaro University, in 
São Paulo, Brazil, initiated a series of community health programs using the 
services of the university radio. The purpose of this paper is to report on the 
experience of elaborating and implementing the weekly programs "Healthy Life" 
and "People taking care of People", in first one implemented in 1996. Due to the 
positive results obtained, this activity became part of the University Extension 
Program with the participation of teachers and students.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71672000000300011
PMID: 12138425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Ir Dent Assoc. 2002;48(2):43-9.

Immediate anterior implant placement and early loading by provisional acrylic 
crowns: a prospective study after a one-year follow-up period.

Calvo Guirado JL(1), Sáez Yuguero R, Ferrer Pérez V, Moreno Pelluz A.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Murcia, Spain.

Implant dentistry has evolved from a functional replacement of teeth to an 
aesthetically driven replacement of the natural tooth system. An immediate 
implant insertion after extraction may maintain the crestal bone and the 
interdental gingival soft tissue. With proper design, the implant gingival 
complex will heal to restore the correct gingival environment. In this 
prospective study, 18 Osseotite (3i, USA) implants were placed in 13 patients (8 
women and 5 men with an average age of 32 years), using an immediate implant 
placement protocol and immediate loading by provisional crowns. Using the life 
table analysis method, the cumulative implant success rate was calculated at 100 
per cent. A one-year interim report indicates that the implant developed and 
extended; functional osseous state show a predictable and reliable method after 
one year follow up period.

PMID: 12138744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2002 Jul;23(7):368-71. doi: 10.1086/502067.

Use of censored data to monitor surgical-site infections.

Thibon P(1), Parienti JJ, Borgey F, Le Prieur A, Bernet C, Branger B, Le Coutour 
X.

Author information:
(1)Réseau Régional d'Hygiène de Basse-Normandie, France.

Comment in
    Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2002 Jul;23(7):361-3.

OBJECTIVE: To take into account the proportion of patients lost to follow-up 
when calculating surgical-site infection (SSI) rates.
DESIGN: A multicenter SSI monitoring network in Basse-Normandie, France, using 
the definitions for SSI of the National Nosocomial Infections Surveillance 
System of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
PATIENTS: Between January 1, 1998, and December 31, 1999, 3,705 patients were 
operated on in 25 units of 10 institutions.
RESULTS: Of the patients, 41.2% (range, 5.1% to 95.5%) were seen 30 days or more 
after their operation. The global SSI attack rate was 2.19% (95% confidence 
interval, 1.72% to 2.66%). With the use of the Kaplan-Meier method, the 
incidence rate was 3.11% (95% confidence interval, 3.06% to 3.16%). The 
difference between the attack rate and the Kaplan-Meier incidence rate for each 
unit varied according to the percentage of patients seen on or after day 30 
postoperatively and the number of SSIs diagnosed in patients seen on or after 
day 30.
CONCLUSIONS: Practice guidelines are needed for the international monitoring for 
postdischarge SSIs and the calculation of SSI rates. The proportion of patients 
seen 30 days after their operation is a major quality criterion for SSI 
monitoring and should be routinely given in monitoring reports, oral 
communications, and publications to compare results obtained by different teams

DOI: 10.1086/502067
PMID: 12138974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2002 Aug;46(7):771-8. doi: 
10.1034/j.1399-6576.2002.460703.x.

Prehospital advanced life support provided by specially trained physicians: is 
there a benefit in terms of life years gained?

Lossius HM(1), Søreide E, Hotvedt R, Hapnes SA, Eielsen OV, Førde OH, Steen PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, Rogaland Central Hospital, 
Stavanger, Norwegian Air Ambulance, Oslo, Norway. hamolo@online.no

Comment in
    Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2002 Aug;46(7):757-8.

BACKGROUND: The benefit of prehospital advanced life support (ALS) is disputed, 
as is the prehospital use of specially trained, hospital-based physicians. The 
purpose of the study was to assess the health benefit from an 
anesthesiologist-manned prehospital emergency medical service (EMS), and to 
separate the benefit of the anesthesiologist from that of rapid transport.
METHODS: The anesthesiologist-manned helicopter and rapid response car service 
at Rogaland Central Hospital assisted 1106 patients at the scene during the 
18-month study period. Two expert panels assessed patients with a potential 
health benefit for life years gained (LYG) using a modified Delphi technique. 
The probability of survival as a result of the studied EMS was multiplied by the 
life expectancy of each patient. The benefit was attributed either to the 
anesthesiologist, the rapid transport or a combination of both.
RESULTS: The expert panels estimated a benefit of 504 LYG in 74 patients (7% of 
the total study population), with a median age of 54 years (range 0-88). The 
cause of the emergency was cardiac diseases (including cardiac arrest) in 61% of 
the 74 patients, trauma in 19%, and cardio-respiratory failure as a result of 
other conditions in 20%. The LYG were equally divided between air and ground 
missions, and the majority (88%) were attributed solely to ALS by the 
anesthesiologist.
CONCLUSION: The expert panels found LYG in every 14th patient assisted by this 
anesthesiologist-manned prehospital EMS. There was no difference in LYG between 
the helicopter and the rapid response car missions. The role of the 
anesthesiologist was crucial for health benefits.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-6576.2002.460703.x
PMID: 12139529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Melanoma Res. 2002 Jun;12(3):245-53. doi: 10.1097/00008390-200206000-00008.

Evaluation of 5-S-cysteinyldopa as a marker of melanoma progression: 10 years' 
experience.

Wakamatsu K(1), Kageshita T, Furue M, Hatta N, Kiyohara Y, Nakayama J, Ono T, 
Saida T, Takata M, Tsuchida T, Uhara H, Yamamoto A, Yamazaki N, Naito A, Ito S.

Author information:
(1)Fujita Health University School of Health Sciences, Toyoake, Aichi 470-1192, 
Japan.

5-S-Cysteinyldopa (5-S-CD) has been used as a biochemical marker of melanoma 
progression. In this study, we measured serum levels of 5-S-CD in 2648 samples 
taken from 218 patients in order to evaluate the usefulness of this parameter in 
following melanoma progression and prognosis. 5-S-CD levels were significantly 
elevated above the upper limit of the normal range (10 nmol/l) in stage IV 
melanoma patients. The sensitivity of elevated serum 5-S-CD levels in detecting 
distant metastasis was 73%, while the specificity was 98% and the positive 
predictive value 94%. The sensitivity was improved to 77% when cases of 
amelanotic melanoma were excluded. Patients without metastases had elevated 
5-S-CD values in 5% of the 1480 serum samples. Changes in serum 5-S-CD levels 
were followed during disease progression until the end stage in 49 patients. In 
33% of the patients, elevation of serum 5-S-CD levels preceded clinical 
detection of visceral metastases, and in 37% elevation of 5-S-CD levels occurred 
at the same time as visceral metastasis. Patients with elevated 5-S-CD levels 
before or after surgical treatment had significantly shorter survival times than 
those with normal levels. These results show that the level of 5-S-CD in the 
serum is a sensitive and specific marker in predicting distant metastases. 
Elevated serum levels of 5-S-CD, before or after surgical treatment, is 
associated with a poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00008390-200206000-00008
PMID: 12140381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Neurol. 2002 Jul;249(7):888-95. doi: 10.1007/s00415-002-0755-8.

Predicting functional outcome and survival after acute ischemic stroke.

Weimar C(1), Ziegler A, König IR, Diener HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, Germany. 
stroke.med@uni-essen.de

OBJECTIVE: Disability and mortality represent the most relevant clinical outcome 
after acute ischemic stroke. However, validated and comprehensive prognostic 
models for recovery have not been developed. An accurate model including all 
previously suggested independent outcome predictors could improve the design and 
analysis of clinical trials. We therefore developed prognostic models for 
functional dependence and death after 100 days in a large cohort of stroke 
patients.
METHODS: From the German Stroke Database, 1754 prospectively collected records 
of patients with acute ischemic stroke were used for the development of 
prognostic models. Intubated patients and patients with low functional status 
before stroke were excluded. Functional independence was defined as a Barthel 
Index >/=95 after 100 days. Prognostic factors assessable within 72 hours after 
admission were identified by a systematic literature review. The final models of 
binary logistic regression analyses were internally validated and calibrated.
RESULTS: The resulting cross-validated and calibrated models correctly 
classified more than 80 % of the patients and yielded the following prognostic 
factors for functional independence: Age, right and left arm paresis at 
admission, NIH-Stroke Scale at admission, Rankin Scale 48-72 hours later, 
gender, prior stroke, diabetes, fever, lenticulostriate infarction, neurological 
complications. The following variables were identified as prognostic factors for 
death: Age, NIH-Stroke Scale at admission, and fever.
CONCLUSIONS: Our work gives an important insight into prognostic factors after 
acute ischemic stroke and presents predictive models with high prognostic 
accuracy. Together with a prospective validation study, currently underway, we 
hence hope to improve the prediction of functional outcome after ischemic 
stroke.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-002-0755-8
PMID: 12140674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Pneumologie. 2002 Jul;56(7):408-12. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-32867.

[Overestimation of hypoxemia].

[Article in German]

Köhler D(1).

Author information:
(1)Krankenhaus Kloster Grafschaft, Zentrum für Beatmungs- und Schlafmedizin, 
Schmallenberg, Germany.

Extreme mountain climbers and patients with stable but severe ventilatory 
insufficiency (e.g. obesitas hypoventilation-syndrome, scoliosis) sometimes 
experience a state of severe hypoxemia without any or only mild subjective 
disturbances. Organ failure is never observed in these periods. On the other 
hand there are two well documented studies concerning long term oxygen therapy 
(LTOT) that have shown in hypoxemic COPD-patients (pO 2 lower then 55 mm Hg) a 
doubling the life expectancy under oxygen. This contradiction can be elucidated 
if the influence of oxygen on the ventilation is taken into account. These study 
patients treated with LTOT all had more or less hypercapnia (hypoventilation) 
due to an overload of their respiratory pump. Oxygen reduces the ventilation 
(seen as hypercapnia) which leads to an unloading of the respiratory muscles. 
Later studies to LTOT found a positive correlation between the extent of stable 
hypercapnia and life expectancy. In this article the physiopathologic background 
of this findings are discussed. The main parameter of the regulator for the 
oxygen transport is not pO 2 but the oxygen content. The oxygen content 
multiplied by cardiac output determines the extent of oxygen delivery. Many 
regulatory systems (e.g. polyglobuly or expression of oxygen resistant 
isoenzymes of the respiratory chain) are involved to compensate the hypoxemia 
associated with hypoventilation which prevents an organ threatening hypoxia. 
This pathophysiologic finding has important impact on intensive care medicine, 
which usually takes only pO 2 into account for therapeutic decisions (e. g. high 
FiO 2 and high pressure support). This sometimes leads to "overtreatment", with 
possible harm to the patient.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-32867
PMID: 12140793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Ceylon Med J. 2002 Jun;47(2):61-3. doi: 10.4038/cmj.v47i2.3456.

Use of disability adjusted life years in health planning: a plea for caution.

Jayasinghe S(1), Mendis N, Lie R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo.

DOI: 10.4038/cmj.v47i2.3456
PMID: 12140881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. AAOHN J. 2002 Jul;50(7):303-6.

Wellness for welders. Prevention strategies.

Walz JA(1), Wehse KL.

Author information:
(1)North Shore Whole Body & Mind Health Center, Inc., Mequon, Wisconsin, USA.

The practical application and workplace implications are numerous. Decreasing 
the risks for heavy metal toxicity and promoting healthy liver and renal 
function for welders could increase their life expectancy and improve their 
quality of life. Wellness promotion is the educational basis of nursing 
practice.

PMID: 12141092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(9):565-76. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00001.

On-demand and intermittent therapy for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease: 
economic considerations.

Inadomi JM(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Practice Management and Outcomes Research and the University of 
Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA. jinadomi@umich.edu

Since gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) is a prevalent condition 
characterised by frequent relapses, long-term costs of management for this 
disease are high. Thus, strategies to decrease resource expenditures without 
impairing patient quality of life are desirable. On-demand therapy (one-dose 
when symptoms occur) and intermittent therapy (short course of medication when 
symptoms occur) are attractive since pharmaceutical expenditures may be 
decreased, and many patients self-employ this strategy. The purpose of this 
paper was to examine the economic implications of on-demand or intermittent 
therapy for GORD. A review of selected studies evaluating medication suitable 
for on-demand or intermittent administration was performed. A complete search 
for published studies on the cost effectiveness of on-demand or intermittent 
therapy for GORD was conducted, and the results discussed in detail. Antacids, 
alginates, topically active agents, histamine(2)-receptor antagonists, and 
proton pump inhibitors have all demonstrable efficacy compared with placebo when 
administered on-demand. Proton pump inhibitors constitute the most effective 
pharmacological means to treat GORD. Although step-up strategies initially using 
less potent medication may decrease resource use, cost-effectiveness analysis 
illustrates that on-demand or intermittent therapy with proton pump inhibitors 
may be reasonable options. Further work that defines quality of life and patient 
preferences associated with GORD may allow for proper allocation of resources 
for the management of this condition.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00001
PMID: 12141885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(9):593-602. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00003.

Cost effectiveness of tinzaparin sodium versus unfractionated heparin in the 
treatment of proximal deep vein thrombosis.

Caro JJ(1), Getsios D, Caro I, O'Brien JA.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, Massachusetts 01742, USA. 
jcaro@caroresearch.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate economic and health implications of tinzaparin sodium, a 
once a day low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), versus unfractionated heparin 
(UFH) in the treatment of acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT) from a US healthcare 
payer perspective.
STUDY DESIGN: An economic model, composed of two submodules, was created: A 
short-term module based on clinical trial data covering the first 3 months and a 
long-term module that projects trial results based on published data for up to 
50 years.
METHODS: Clinical trial results were combined with data from long-term follow-up 
studies of DVT in a model that estimates the health and economic consequences of 
treatment. Both short- and long-term costs with tinzaparin sodium were compared 
with UFH, as were health outcomes and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Patients treated with tinzaparin sodium are estimated to live a mean of 
0.9 years longer on average (0.6 discounted), resulting in an increase of 0.8 
QALYs (0.5 discounted). At the same time, lifetime savings are US dollars 621 
per patient (1999 values), even when all patients receiving tinzapirin sodium 
are treated as inpatients. Early discharge of patients receiving tinzaparin 
sodium, or outpatient treatment, would save between US dollars 3000 and US 
dollars 5000 per patient.
CONCLUSION: Tinzaparin sodium leads to better health outcomes and substantial 
economic savings compared with UFH treatment when all management costs are 
considered.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00003
PMID: 12141887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(9):617-28. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00005.

Cost effectiveness of treatment of Parkinson's disease with entacapone in the 
United States.

Palmer CS(1), Nuijten MJ, Schmier JK, Subedi P, Snyder EH.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of adjunctive therapy with 
entacapone versus standard treatment (levodopa) without entacapone for patients 
in the US with Parkinson's disease (PD) who experience 'off-time' (re-emergence 
of the symptoms of PD) while receiving levodopa.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was used to estimate 5-year costs and effectiveness 
of standard treatment with and without entacapone.
METHODS: Probabilities, unit costs, resource utilisation data and utilities were 
obtained from published literature, clinical trial reports, a national database, 
and clinical experts. PD disability was measured using the daily proportion of 
off-time and Hoehn and Yahr scale scores. The analysis measured costs from a 
societal and third-party payer perspective, and effectiveness as gains in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and years without progression to >25% 
off-time.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, entacapone therapy resulted in an 
incremental cost of US dollars 9327 per QALY gained compared with standard 
treatment. Treatment with entacapone also provided an additional 7.6 months with 
< or =25% off-time/day compared with standard treatment. Sensitivity analyses 
indicated that the model is sensitive to changes in rates of 
improvement/deterioration of off-time, and to the number of doses per day of 
levodopa with adjunctive entacapone.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of entacapone to standard treatment for patients 
receiving levodopa who experience off-time provides additional QALYs and gain in 
time with minimal fluctuations. Results of this modelling exercise suggest that 
therapy with entacapone may be cost effective when compared with standard 
treatment for PD.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220090-00005
PMID: 12141889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Lancet Oncol. 2002 Jul;3(7):407-14. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(02)00787-8.

Management of thyroid cancer.

Vini L(1), Harmer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Athens Medical Center, Greece.

Thyroid cancers are a diverse group of malignant disorders ranging from indolent 
micropapillary carcinoma, which has no effect on life expectancy, to anaplastic 
tumours, which are invariably fatal even with aggressive treatment. Although the 
estimated incidence has increased by 14.6% over the past 40 years, the estimated 
death rate has fallen by 21%, probably as a result of earlier diagnosis. The 
natural history of thyroid tumours is no longer a mystery, and the prognostic 
factors identified can predict outcome fairly accurately. Improvements in 
management have mostly depended on information from large retrospective series, 
though there are still many areas open to debate. There has been, however, a 
general acceptance that thyroid cancer should be managed by multidisciplinary 
teams in specialised units following evidence-based guidelines.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(02)00787-8
PMID: 12142170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Annu Rev Genomics Hum Genet. 2002;3:67-99. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.genom.3.022502.103022. Epub 2002 Apr 15.

Deciphering the genetic basis of Alzheimer's disease.

Selkoe DJ(1), Podlisny MB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. dselkoe@cnd.bwh.harvard.edu

A remarkable rise in life expectancy during the past century has made 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) the most common form of progressive cognitive failure 
in humans. Compositional analyses of the classical brain lesions, the senile 
(amyloid) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, preceded and has guided the 
search for genetic alterations. Four genes have been unequivocally implicated in 
inherited forms of AD, and mutations or polymorphisms in these genes cause 
excessive cerebral accumulation of the amyloid beta-protein and subsequent 
neuronal and glial pathology in brain regions important for memory and 
cognition. This understanding of the genotype-to-phenotype conversions of 
familial AD has led to the development of pharmacological strategies to lower 
amyloid beta-protein levels as a way of treating or preventing all forms of the 
disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.genom.3.022502.103022
PMID: 12142353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Rofo. 2002 Aug;174(8):1009-14. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-32932.

[Interdisciplinary interventional therapy for tracheobronchial stenosis with 
modern metal net stents].

[Article in German]

Rieger J(1), Linsenmaier U, Hautmann H, Fedorowski A, Huber RM, Pfeifer KJ.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Klinische Radiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, 
Germany. jrieger@radin.med.uni-muenchen.de

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Assessment of the therapeutic potential of tracheobronchial 
stenting for obstructive tracheobronchial disease, in-vivo comparison of 
different stent types and development of helpful criteria for choosing the 
suitable stent type.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Prospective case analysis. Between 1993 and 1999 53 stents 
were implanted into the tracheobronchial system of 39 consecutive patients with 
benign or malignant airway obstruction. Every single stent (26 Strecker Stents, 
18 Wallstents, 6 Accuflex Nitinolstents, 1 Dumon-, 1 Rüsch- and 1 Palmazstent) 
was recorded in an unified database. Analysis comprised clinical effectiveness, 
lung function if possible, relevant complications and radiologic follow-up 
parameters. The probability of their remaining within the tracheobronchial 
system, of their remaining undislocated and uncompressed was calculated using 
Kaplan-Meier analysis for three stent types.
RESULTS: Stent placement proved itself to be an effective treatment in 86 % of 
the patients. Resistance could be normalized in 9/9 patients. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis clearly revealed a higher probability for the Wall- and Nitinolstent to 
remain within the tracheobronchial system and to remain uncompressed. 
Dislocation also occurred more rarely. Explantation of the Wallstent, however, 
if desired, was much more difficult compared to the Strecker stent. The 
Wallstent also occasionally led to the formation of granulation tissue 
especially at the proximal stent end and, as such, required reintervention.
CONCLUSION: Any of the 3 stent types proved to be an effective therapeutic 
option in the management of obstructive tracheobronchial disease. Choise of the 
stent type should be determined through definition of the therapeutic intention. 
It is useful to distinguish between (a) benign stenosis, (b) malignant stenosis 
but curative therapeutic situation and (c) malignant stenosis in a palliative 
therapeutic situation with limited life expectancy. In spite of its superior 
mechanical properties the Wallstent is rather suited for a palliative situation 
because explantation may be difficult. The Strecker Stent requires more 
reinterventions but removal is easy to perform. The Nitinolstent possibly 
represents a reasonable compromise.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-32932
PMID: 12142979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Genus. 1987 Jul;43(3-4):61-8.

First-marriage decrement tables, for males and females in Ontario, Canada, 
1971-1981.

Sharma RD.

This article presents an analysis of first-marriage decrement tables for males 
and females in Ontario, Canada, for 1971, 1976, and 1981. The analysis indicates 
that along with the age at 1st marriage, the age range between 2 sexes has also 
increased. An increasing number of Ontarians are remaining never-married, and 
the prospect of eventually getting married has also declined. The paper also 
discusses social and economic implications of these changes in the nuptiality 
patterns of Ontario.

PMID: 12143696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Genus. 1987 Jul;43(3-4):69-84.

Changing marriage and divorce patterns in Australia, 1921-81: an application of 
multi-state life table analysis.

Krishnamoorthy S.

PIP: Multi-state life table analysis is performed for the quinquennial years 
from 1921 to 1981 to study the changes in nuptiality among Australian women. The 
results of the analysis indicate that during the Depression of the early 1930s, 
the mean age at 1st marriage was high and 1st marriages and divorces were low. 
During the 2nd World War period, the 1st marriage rates, divorce rates, and the 
remarriage rates for divorces went up. However, divorces and remarriages of 
divorcees started falling after 1946, although 1st marriages were on the 
increase until 1956. Both 1st marriages and remarriages of divorcees and widows 
fell during 1976-1981, most likely due to the recent increasing trend in living 
together arrangements. The proportion of life spent in the married state has 
been declining in recent years due to increasing age at 1st marriage, declining 
proportions marrying, and increasing divorces coupled with the declining 
probability of remarriage. Though one might expect increasing chances for the 
marriages of women to end in widowhood because of the ever widening sex 
differential in longevity, the facts are different. The rise in the divorce rate 
has given rise to an increase in the probability of a marriage ending in divorce 
and hence a decline in the probability of a marriage ending in widowhood.

PMID: 12143697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Hemoglobin. 2002 May;26(2):113-20. doi: 10.1081/hem-120005448.

Modification in the frequency of Hb C and Hb S in Burkina Faso: an influence of 
migratory fluxes and improvement of patient health care.

Simpore J(1), Pignatelli S, Barlati S, Musumeci S.

Author information:
(1)Centre Medical Saint Camille, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.

The incidence of hemoglobinopathies (Hb C and Hb S) is relatively high in West 
Africa. In order to calculate the gene frequency of these hemoglobinopathies, 
6619 students from 23 local schools in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, West Africa, 
and 2582 individuals living in five villages near Ouagadougou, all situated in 
Savanna, were studied. As expected, the gene frequency in the city schools was 
0.111 for the betaC gene and 0.051 for the betaS gene; in the five villages it 
was 0.122 for the betaC gene and 0.047 for the betaS gene. This data is somewhat 
different from that published in a previous study by Labie et al. [2] in the 
humid Savanna region, that showed a higher prevalence of betaC (0.14) than betaS 
(0.03), and is in contrast to data from the arid Sahel region that showed a 
higher prevalence of betaS (0.1) compared to betaC (0.05). The higher rate of 
betaS and lower rate of betaC in students in Ouagadougou, and in the individuals 
living in the five villages near Ouagadougou, suggest the possible influence of 
migratory fluxes of the betaS gene from the country region of Sahel. The 
dramatic increase in the prevalence of Hb SS patients, not reported in the study 
of Labie et al., [2] may be the result of reduced mortality due to environmental 
change. In addition, the improved health conditions of Hb SC and the increased 
life expectancy of Hb SS, may also have facilitated the increase of the betaS 
gene and the focus on secondary prevention for the control of correlated 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1081/hem-120005448
PMID: 12144053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Hemoglobin. 2002 May;26(2):121-7. doi: 10.1081/hem-120005449.

Biological and clinical presentation of patients with hemoglobinopathies 
attending an urban hospital in Ouagadougou: confirmation of the modification of 
the balance between Hb S and Hb C in Burkina Faso.

Simpore J(1), Pignatelli S, Barlati S, Musumeci S.

Author information:
(1)Centre Medical Saint Camille, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.

The incidence of hemoglobinopathies (Hb C and Hb S) is relatively high in West 
Africa. In order to characterize the clinical phenotypes of these 
hemoglobinopathies 10,166 subjects were studied for suspected hemoglobinopathies 
at the Laboratory of the Centre Medical Saint Camille (CMSC), Ouagadougou, 
Burkina Faso. A high rate of Hb SC (6.49%) and Hb SS (1.93%) individuals were 
detected at the CMSC as a consequence of a selective process, whereby patients 
with anemia or symptoms of vascular occlusive crisis underwent blood tests. The 
higher frequency of Hb SC may be explained by the fact that this condition is 
less severe than the SS status, and it requires frequent clinical and laboratory 
review. On the other hand, the frequency of Hb CC is very low because it does 
not interfere with their health status. Moreover, the high percentage of Hb S 
(12.29%) and Hb C (19.28%) trait individuals may be explained by the fact that, 
in general, all Hb SS and Hb SC patients followed at the CMSC have parents, 
siblings and other relatives who could have been referred by the center to 
receive blood tests. The dramatic increase over the past few years in the 
prevalence of Hb SS [who were absent in the 1984 study of Labie et al. [5]] and 
of Hb SC, may be attributed to its reduced lethality due to social and health 
changes. In conclusion, secondary prevention for the control of concurrent and 
associated diseases is essential in Hb SS and Hb SC patients for improving 
health and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1081/hem-120005449
PMID: 12144054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Am J Public Health. 2002 Aug;92(8):1284-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.92.8.1284.

Driving life expectancy of persons aged 70 years and older in the United States.

Foley DJ(1), Heimovitz HK, Guralnik JM, Brock DB.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry, National Institute on 
Aging, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We estimated total life expectancy and driving life expectancy of US 
drivers aged 70 years and older.
METHODS: Life table methods were applied to 4699 elderly persons who were 
driving in 1993 and reassessed in a 1995 survey.
RESULTS: Drivers aged 70 to 74 years had a driving life expectancy of 
approximately 11 years. A higher risk of mortality among men as a cause of 
driving cessation offset a higher risk of driving cessation not related to 
mortality among women that resulted in similar driving life expectancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Nationwide, many elderly drivers quit driving each year and must 
seek alternative sources of transportation. Because of differences in life 
expectancy, women require more years of support for transportation, on average, 
than men after age 70.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.92.8.1284
PMCID: PMC1447231
PMID: 12144985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Aug;57(8):B292-7. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.8.b292.

Position statement on human aging.

Olshansky SJ(1), Hayflick L, Carnes BA.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, 60612, USA. 
sjayo@uic.edu

A large number of products are currently being sold by antiaging entrepreneurs 
who claim that it is now possible to slow, stop, or reverse human aging. The 
business of what has become known as antiaging medicine has grown in recent 
years in the United States and abroad into a multimillion-dollar industry. The 
products being sold have no scientifically demonstrated efficacy, in some cases 
they may be harmful, and those selling them often misrepresent the science upon 
which they are based. In the position statement that follows, 52 researchers in 
the field of aging have collaborated to inform the public of the distinction 
between the pseudoscientific antiaging industry, and the genuine science of 
aging that has progressed rapidly in recent years.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.8.b292
PMID: 12145354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Leukemia. 2002 Aug;16(8):1423-31. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402550.

Chimerism and minimal residual disease monitoring after reduced intensity 
conditioning (RIC) allogeneic transplantation.

Pérez-Simón JA(1), Caballero D, Diez-Campelo M, Lopez-Pérez R, Mateos G, Cañizo 
C, Vazquez L, Vidriales B, Mateos MV, Gonzalez M, San Miguel JF.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Salamanca, 
Salamanca, Spain.

Since graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) is the main weapon for disease eradication 
after reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) allogeneic SCT, the availability of 
sensitive and specific techniques to monitor changes in tumor load after 
transplant are especially helpful. These minimal residual disease techniques 
would allow an early intervention in the event of low tumor burden, for which 
immunotherapy is highly effective. Some authors have found an association 
between persistence of MRD, mixed chimerism and risk of relapse. Nevertheless, 
data from the literature remain contradictory and further correlations should be 
established, especially in RIC transplants. In this study we have analyzed the 
impact of MRD and chimerism monitoring on the outcome of 34 patients undergoing 
RIC allogeneic SCT who were considered poor candidates for conventional 
transplantation due to advanced age or other concurrent medical conditions. At 
day +100 25 (75%) patients reached complete remission (CR), there were five 
(15%) partial responses and three patients progressed. Incidence of grade 2-4 
aGVHD and extensive cGVHD were 35% and 58%, respectively. Sixteen percent of 
patients developing aGVHD relapsed as compared to 47% in those without aGVHD (P 
= 0.03) and also 10% of patients developing cGVHD relapsed as compared to 50% 
relapses in those without cGHVD (P = 0.03). Four patients (12%) died due to 
early (n = 1) and late (n = 3) transplant-related mortality. After a median 
follow-up of 15 months, 24 out of the 34 patients remain alive. Projected 
overall survival and disease-free survival at 3 years are 68% and 63%, 
respectively. Early chimerism analysis showed 67% of patients with complete 
chimerism (CC) in bone marrow (BM), 86% in peripheral blood (PB), 89% in 
granulocytes and 68% in T lymphocytes. On day +100, these figures were 68%, 79%, 
90% and 73%, respectively, and on day +180 there were 83% patients with CC in 
BM, 100% in PB, 100% in granulocytes and 100% in T lymphocytes. We observed a 
trend to a higher incidence of relapse in patients with mixed chimerism (MC) as 
compared to patients with CC. MRD monitoring by flow cytometry and/or RT-PCR 
analysis was performed in 23 patients. MRD assessment on days +21 to +56 after 
transplant allowed identification of patients at risk of relapse. In this sense, 
seven out of 12 patients (58.3%) who had positive MRD on days +21 to +56 
relapsed as compared to none out of 11 patients who had negative MRD (P = 
0.002). Of the seven patients with criteria to monitor MRD who relapsed after 
transplant, all but one remained MRD positive until relapse. By contrast, 10 
patients remained MRD negative and all of them are in continuous CR. In nine 
additional patients, persistence of MRD or mixed chimerism was observed after 
transplant and withdrawal of cyclosporin with or without DLI was performed. Only 
two out of these nine patients relapsed. MRD clearance was preceded by CC and 
GVHD. In conclusion, in our study we found that RIC allogeneic transplantation 
can be used in patients considered poor candidates for conventional 
transplantation due to advanced age or other concurrent medical conditions with 
both low toxicity and low transplant-related mortality. Simultaneous studies of 
both chimerism and MRD are a useful tool in order to predict risk of relapse in 
patients undergoing RIC transplants and so can be helpful for individualizing 
treatment strategies after transplant.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402550
PMID: 12145680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Gastroenterology. 2002 Aug;123(2):483-91. doi: 10.1053/gast.2002.34785.

Interferon therapy prolonged life expectancy among chronic hepatitis C patients.

Yoshida H(1), Arakawa Y, Sata M, Nishiguchi S, Yano M, Fujiyama S, Yamada G, 
Yokosuka O, Shiratori Y, Omata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of 
Medicine, Bunkyo, Tokyo, Japan. yoshida-2im@h.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The effects of interferon therapy in chronic hepatitis C 
patients on survival are unclear. Our objective was to analyze survival among a 
large cohort of chronic hepatitis C patients.
METHODS: We used a retrospective cohort study design in the setting of 7 
university hospitals and 1 regional core hospital in Japan. Our study included 
2889 patients with histological-proven chronic hepatitis C: 2430 patients 
received interferon therapy, and 459 patients were untreated. For intervention, 
the median dose and duration of interferon administration was 480 million units 
and 137 days, respectively. For measurements, survival status was confirmed by 
medical records or direct questionnaires. The effect of interferon therapy on 
survival was assessed by standardized mortality ratio (SMR) based on published 
mortality among the Japanese general population and by risk ratio calculated by 
proportional hazards regression.
RESULTS: Thirty of 459 untreated patients, 7 of 817 virologic sustained 
responders, and 49 of 1613 nonresponders died in 5.4-years follow-up. 
Fifty-eight (67%) of 86 patient deaths were due to liver diseases (39 to 
hepatocellular carcinoma). Compared with the general population, overall 
mortality was high among untreated patients (SMR: 1.9; CI: 1.3-2.8) but not 
among interferon-treated patients (SMR: 0.9; CI: 0.7-1.1). The risk of death was 
