reduced, compared with untreated patients, among interferon-treated patients 
(risk ratio for overall death: 0.367; CI: 0.236-0.596; for liver-related death: 
0.284; CI: 0.164-0.494) and among sustained responders (risk ratios: 0.148; CI: 
0.064-0.343 and 0.050; CI: 0.012-0.216). The risk of liver-unrelated deaths 
remained unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS: Interferon therapy improved survival of chronic hepatitis C 
patients by preventing liver-related deaths.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.2002.34785
PMID: 12145802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Am Stat Assoc. 1967 Sep;62:862-74. doi: 10.1080/01621459.1967.10500899.

On the interpretation of age distributions.

Keyfitz N, Nagnur D, Sharma D.

DOI: 10.1080/01621459.1967.10500899
PMID: 12146215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Labor Econ. 1986 Jul;4(3 Pt. 2):278-87. doi: 10.1086/298133.

The changing economy and the family.

Schultz TW.

This study is concerned with the impact of changes in economic conditions on the 
family. "Three issues are considered in this paper. First, the reasons why the 
family is not fading away as an economic entity are discussed. The argument of 
this paper is that, despite the declines in various economic functions of the 
family and the increases in divorces and in other failures, the survival 
capacity of the family is both strong and robust." Second, the author contends 
that the economic approach should be extended to deal with the effects of the 
life-span revolution, shifts in prices and incomes, and the ability of the 
family to cope with these changes. Third, the hypothesis is put forward that 
intergenerational transfers are less important than increases over time in real 
per capita incomes and changes in income composition, its permanent and 
temporary components, and the sources of income. The geographical focus is 
worldwide.

excerpt

DOI: 10.1086/298133
PMID: 12146358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Periodontol. 2002 Jul;73(7):687-93. doi: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.7.687.

The single-tooth implant: a viable alternative for single-tooth replacement.

Mayer TM(1), Hawley CE, Gunsolley JC, Feldman S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Baltimore College of Dental Surgery, University 
of Maryland, 21201, USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of dental implants for single-tooth replacement cases 
introduces a challenge to the performance of these restorations. Clinical data 
suggest that single-tooth implant restorations do not benefit from lateral 
support from the surrounding dentition as do bridged implants, and that these 
restorations are subjected to greater masticatory forces. Therefore, 
single-tooth implants are exposed to an increased risk of failure. This 
prospective clinical trial was designed to evaluate the cumulative success rate 
of dual acid-etched single-tooth replacement implants in two clinical centers.
METHODS: The study protocol included 59 patients between 19 and 73 years. 
Implants were evaluated for mobility, infection, and crestal bone loss from 30.9 
to 60 months.
RESULTS: Seventy-one (71) implants were placed in 59 patients, 20 male and 39 
female. Forty-seven (47) were placed in the maxilla and 24 in the mandible. The 
percentages of anterior and posterior implants were 45.1% and 54.9%, 
respectively. A total of 13 (18.4%) implants were placed in soft, poor quality 
(Type IV) bone. Beginning 1 month post-implant placement, cases were followed 
for 30.9 to 60 months with a mean follow-up of 45.9 months. One implant failed 
(peri-implant infection) yielding an overall success rate of 98.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: This success rate for single-tooth replacement dual acid-etched 
implants compares favorably with bridged implants and with success rates of 
other single-tooth implant studies. Dual acid-etched implants performed well 
even under conditions of poor quality bone, where concomitant bone augmentation 
was performed, and when used for immediate replacement of extracted teeth.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.7.687
PMID: 12146526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Community Dent Health. 2002 Jun;19(2):73-8.

Expectation of retaining natural teeth for a lifetime and its predictors among 
Norwegian adults.

Haugejorden O(1), Klock KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Odontology--Community Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, 
University of Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent to which Norwegian adults expect to retain 
their natural teeth for life, and to assess the effect of possible predictors of 
expectancy.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional random sample survey.
SETTING: Participants were interviewed in person or by telephone in 
August/September 1999.
SUBJECTS: A representative nationwide sample aged 15-79 years (n = 1,287). The 
participation rate was 65%. The results pertain to 1,154 subjects aged 16-79 
years with > or = 20 teeth.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Expectation of retaining natural teeth for life.
RESULTS: About 42% believed definitely that they would retain their natural 
teeth for life. The rate was 88% when those who answered 'possibly' were 
included. Logistic regression analysis showed that gender (OR = 1.9, 95% CL 
1.25, 2.87), appearance (OR = 2.8, 95% CL 1.85, 4.29) and chewing ability (OR = 
2.4, 95% CL 1.26, 4.46) were significant predictors of the expectancy to retain 
20 or more natural teeth for life. Explained variance expressed in terms of 
Nagelkerke's R2 was 0.093.
CONCLUSIONS: About 40% of Norwegians definitely expected to retain > or = 20 
natural teeth for life, 88% believed this to be 'definitely' or 'possibly'. 
Gender, appearance and chewing ability were significant predictors but their 
explanatory effect was low.

PMID: 12146585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Transfusion. 2002 Jun;42(6):691-7. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2002.00109.x.

Four-year survival of transfusion recipients identified by hepatitis C lookback.

Vamvakas EC(1), Goldstein R.

Author information:
(1)Bloodbank and Transfusion Service, New York University Medical Center, New 
York, NY 10016, USA. stephen.vamvakas@med.nyu.edu

BACKGROUND: Information on the probability of survival of transfused patients is 
needed for policy making, but there is a paucity of empirical research into this 
question. A Swedish population-based study reported that the 40-month 
posttransfusion probability of survival was 51 percent in all patients and 41 
percent in recipients of more than 10 units of blood and blood components. These 
figures were 20 percent lower than the figures reported previously from Olmsted 
County, Minnesota.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Information was collected on the 4-year survival of 
695 patients transfused at the New York University Medical Center between 1988 
and 1996. These patients had been identified previously by hepatitis C lookback.
RESULTS: Seventy-five percent of patients survived at 1 month after transfusion, 
66 percent at 3 months, 60 percent at 6 months, 54 percent at 1 year, 50 percent 
at 2 years, 45 percent at 3 years, and 41 percent at 4 years. Seventy-eight 
percent of patients included in the study had received more than 10 units of 
blood and blood components. The 4-year survival of patients receiving 1 to 3, 4 
to 10, or more than 10 units was 62 percent, 48 percent, and 38 percent, 
respectively (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: When transfusion dose is taken into account, the probability of 
survival of patients transfused at the New York University Medical Center in 
1988 to 1996 and identified by lookback is similar to that reported for Swedish 
county residents transfused in 1993. Based on both the Swedish data and the 
information presented here and in the absence of any recent results from 
population-based studies, the survival of U.S. patients transfused in the 1990s 
appears to be 20 percent lower than that of Olmsted County residents transfused 
in 1981.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2002.00109.x
PMID: 12147020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Circulation. 2002 Jul 30;106(5):626-30. doi:
10.1161/01.cir.0000021408.40925.63.

Medical economics and the assessment of value in cardiovascular medicine: Part 
II.

Mark DB(1), Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research and Assessment Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Durham, NC 27715, USA. daniel.mark@duke.edu

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.0000021408.40925.63
PMID: 12147547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Health Promot Int. 2002 Sep;17(3):287-90; author reply 291. doi: 
10.1093/heapro/17.3.287.

How long do Swedish-speaking Finns live? A comment on the paper by Hyyppä and 
Mäki.

Finnäs F.

Comment on
    Health Promot Int. 2001 Mar;16(1):55-64.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/17.3.287
PMID: 12147644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Presse Med. 2002 May 11;31(17):782-6.

[Life expectancy and aging, scientific and medical aspects].

[Article in French]

Solignac M.

STUDIES ON THE BIOLOGY OF AGING: According to species demonstrate the role of 
certain synchronizers, such as calory restrictions, genetic modifications and 
environmental and living conditions. FUNCTIONAL OR PROTEIN GENOMICS: Are aimed 
at listing the human proteins and their localization. Study of the variations in 
proteome according to age has also been envisaged. Research on chronic 
(cardiovascular, and neurodegenerative or metabolic) diseases with multifactor 
causes (related both to environmental conditions and genetic sensitivity) must 
be accelerated. CELL SENESCENCE: Is expressed by the blocking of the mitosis 
signal, with modification in gene expression, and alteration in phenotype; it 
could be an anti-cancer mechanism, like apoptosis. THERE IS AN OBVIOUS 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN AGING AND CANCER: However the latter is not a consequence 
of aging, even if the absence of telomerase (enzyme maintaining DNA length) is 
observed in both cases. TO PERMIT HARMONIOUS AND GOOD QUALITY AGING: It is 
essential to intensify the screening and prevention of deficiencies and 
pathological phenomena in elderly subjects, notably cerebral aging and dementia, 
cardiovascular aging, osteo-articular diseases....

PMID: 12148360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2002 Aug;70(8):438-42. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-33059.

[Intracranial aneurysms and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease].

[Article in German]

Lackner E(1), Jöbges M, Schirmer F, Hummelsheim H.

Author information:
(1)Neurologisches Rehabilitationszentrum Leipzig, Universität Leipzig, Germany.

The implementation of a screening program for first degree relatives of patients 
with sporadic subarachnoid hemorrhage by means of magnetic resonance angiography 
does not seem to be warranted, since the resulting increase in life expectancy 
does not offset the risk of postoperative sequelae. Some exceptions, however, 
should be considered. We present a family suffering from autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease. Two of the four siblings had a subarachnoid 
hemorrhage from an aneurysm of a cerebral artery. Although intracranial 
aneurysms are accepted as extrarenal manifestations of autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease, the exact frequency of the association is unknown. 
Nevertheless, the maximum rate of coincidence dealt with in the literature is 41 
percent. Because of this high association every patient suffering from a 
subarachnoid hemorrhage due to an intracranial aneurysm should be screened by an 
abdominal ultrasound. In case of an association first degree relatives should be 
examined for a polycystic kidney disease and in the case of a positive result a 
magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial vessels should be performed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-33059
PMID: 12149684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Pediatr Surg. 2002 Aug;37(8):1232-3. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2002.34488.

Temporary relocation of testes to the anterior abdominal wall before radiation 
therapy of the pelvis or perineum.

Acosta JM(1), Tiao G, Stein JE, Mahour GH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery Childrens Hospital Los Angeles and the Keck 
School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90027, 
USA.

Recent advances in the treatment of pelvic malignancies in children has resulted 
in an increased life expectancy. In the past, treatment of soft tissue sarcomas 
with simple surgical excision resulted in a recurrence rate of approximately 
75%. Combination of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgery have significantly 
altered the outcome of advanced pelvic soft tissue sarcomas. With the improved 
survival rate of patients treated with combination therapy, sterility secondary 
to radiation therapy has become an issue. As little as 600 rads to the gonads 
may result in sterility later in life. To alleviate this problem, relocating the 
gonads from the field of radiation has been suggested. In this report, we 
present a novel approach in which the testes are wrapped in SILASTIC (Dow 
Corning, Midland, MI) sheaths and are relocated temporarily into the anterior 
abdominal wall away from the radiation field. This alternative surgical approach 
should be considered in boys who are afflicted with a pelvic/perineal malignancy 
requiring radiation therapy.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2002.34488
PMID: 12149714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nutr Hosp. 2002 May-Jun;17(3):115-8.

[Women and children first?....].

[Article in Spanish]

Zarazaga Monzón A, García de Lorenzo y Mateos A, Culebras Fernández JM.

The goal of the National Health System (SNS in its Spanish acronym) does not 
consist in distributing to everyone an identical dose of health services but in 
establishing a balance between those who are ill and those who are healthy in 
the course of their lives, and concentrating its interventions on those who are 
worse. In an advanced health care system, there are very few actions by health 
personnel that can be assessed as "lives saved": more often than not, these 
actions manage to delay the end and are occasionally limited to improving the 
quality of the years patients live, without extending their number. It is 
therefore clearly necessary to find appropriate units of measurement to assess 
the benefits and utility of all health-related procedures. When effecting a 
cost-effectiveness study and assessing the results obtained, it is necessary to 
differentiate between quality of life (personal), utility (personal) and the 
utility of the procedure or process when applied to our patients. This utility 
is determined by means of the additional quality and quantity of life, measured 
in a single unit, QALY, but this cost-effectiveness analysis would be 
constrained in patients with a shortened life expectancy and/or reduced quality 
of life due to old age or degenerative disease, thus skewing the distribution of 
resources in favour of younger population groups. In order to redress this 
situation, the use of corrective measurements such as EQALY is proposed. We 
believe that neither age nor illness in themselves limit the application of 
resources, providing that we can prove a useful result for the patient.

PMID: 12149809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nutr Hosp. 2002 May-Jun;17(3):147-53.

[Changes in carbohydrate metabolism in the HIV/AIDS patient].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Candela C(1), de Cos Blanco AI, Mateo R, Castro E, Lorenzo A, Polo R.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Nutrición Clínica y Dietética, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Paseo 
de la Castellana, 261, 28046 Madrid. nutricion@hulp.insalud.es

Over the last few years, there has been a considerable reduction in the 
mortality and morbidity associated with HIV patients, due to the use of protease 
inhibitors which have led to a true revolution in the treatment of this 
infection. A new problem has arisen with the increased life expectancy: the 
onset of a plurimetabolic syndrome characterized by hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia and hyperglycaemia; in addition to anomalies in 
composition and distribution of body fat (central obesity and loss of peripheral 
fat) due to the associated lipodystrophy. As a result of the metabolic 
alterations, there is an increase in the risk of cardiovascular disease. 
Hyperglycaemia is the result of insulin resistance and is detected in between 
13.6% and 46% of patients, possibly leading to type 2 diabetes (diagnosed in 
between 2.4% and 7% of the patients). These alterations have been documented as 
potentially related with the use of protease inhibitors and other drugs used in 
the handling of HIV patients. The appropriate treatment of altered metabolism of 
carbohydrate requires: 1) a customized dietary approach depending on individual 
BMI and lipid alterations; 2) a physical exercise programme; 3) the use of 
insulin sensitization drugs: metformin and thiazolidinediones and, where the 
therapeutic goals are not achieved or there is a contraindication for oral 
hypoglycaemic drugs; 4) insulin therapy with regimens similar to other diabetic 
patients.

PMID: 12149814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Przegl Epidemiol. 2002;56(1):179-92.

Highlights on the health status of the Polish population in 1999/2000.

Wojtyniak B(1), Goryński P, Seroka W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Hygiene, Warsaw. bogdan@medstat.waw.pl

In the paper we describe the main problems of the Polish population health 
status and their trends in the past years. A meaningful improvement in several 
health parameters can be noticed in Poland since 1991. In the year 2000 life 
expectancy was 69.7 and 78.0 for males and females respectively--an increase by 
3.6 and 2.7 years in comparison with 1991 values. There have been declining 
trends in cardiovascular mortality, cancer mortality (more often in younger age 
groups), infant mortality, incidence of infectious diseases. Mental health 
problems are the growing issue. It has been stressed that the pace of progress 
is far too slow to achieve the level of health indicators in EU countries in the 
not too distant future.

PMID: 12150062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Heart Valve Dis. 2002 Jul;11(4):457-62.

Tissue engineering of cardiac valve prostheses I: development and histological 
characterization of an acellular porcine scaffold.

Booth C(1), Korossis SA, Wilcox HE, Watterson KG, Kearney JN, Fisher J, Ingham 
E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Microbiology, University of Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS OF THE STUDY: Several deficiencies in current heart valve 
prostheses make them problematic for use in younger patients. Tissue valve 
substitutes are non-viable with a life expectancy of only 10-15 years, while 
mechanical valves require long-term anti-coagulation therapy. A solution to 
these problems would be to develop a tissue-engineered heart valve containing 
autologous cells, enabling the valve to maintain its biochemical and mechanical 
properties, yet grow with the patient. The study aim was to optimize a protocol 
to produce a porcine acellular matrix scaffold for use in developing a 
tissue-engineered heart valve.
METHODS: Fresh porcine aortic valve leaflets were treated with Triton X-100, 
sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), sodium deoxycholate, MEGA 10, TnBP, CHAPS, and 
Tween 20, over a range of concentrations, in the presence of protease inhibitors 
for up to 72 h. Histological analysis was used to detect the major structural 
proteins of the heart valve, collagen I, elastin and glycosaminoglycans.
RESULTS: After 72 h, most protocols resulted in the retention of large numbers 
of whole cells and cell fragments. Only SDS (0.03-1%) or sodium deoxycholate 
(0.5-2%) resulted in total decellularization at 24 h. Histological analysis of 
acellular matrices showed that the major structural proteins had been retained 
and appeared to be intact.
CONCLUSION: Protocols utilizing SDS or sodium deoxycholate were successful for 
leaflet decellularization, and histological analysis showed that the major 
structural components of the valve matrix had been maintained. These methods are 
being developed further with a view to reseeding with autologous cells to 
produce tissue-engineered solutions for clinical implantation.

PMID: 12150290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Laryngoscope. 2002 May;112(5):906-10. doi: 10.1097/00005537-200205000-00023.

Nonsurgical management of parapharyngeal space infections: a prospective study.

Sichel JY(1), Dano I, Hocwald E, Biron A, Eliashar R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Hadassah University 
Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: Parapharyngeal infections, which can potentially cause 
life-threatening complications, may, in certain cases, be treated conservatively 
with no need for surgical drainage. A review of the literature reveals that the 
most recommended treatment of parapharyngeal infection is surgical drainage 
combined with intravenous antibiotic therapy. Several retrospective reports 
recommend conservative treatment with no surgical drainage.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, nonrandomized.
METHODS: A prospective study was performed on all patients with an infection 
limited to the parapharyngeal space.
RESULTS: Twelve patients presented with clinical and radiological diagnosis of 
parapharyngeal infection during a 5-year period. Five patients showed obvious 
presence of pus in other spaces and therefore were excluded. Seven patients with 
no gross extension into other spaces and with no respiratory distress or septic 
shock were treated with intravenous amoxicillinclavulanic acid for 9 to 14 days 
(average period, 11 days). All patients except one were children. All were cured 
with conservative management, and no surgical drainage was needed. None had any 
complications.
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the effectiveness of nonsurgical treatment of 
infections limited to the parapharyngeal space, at least in the pediatric 
population.

DOI: 10.1097/00005537-200205000-00023
PMID: 12150626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Curr Womens Health Rep. 2002 Aug;2(4):305-11.

Urogenital atrophy: diagnosis, sequelae, and management.

Keil K(1).

Author information:
(1)Mountain States Gynecology and Continence Center, 2005 Franklin Street, 
Midtown II, Suite 600, Denver, CO 80205, USA. Keilk@exempla.org

It is estimated that 17% of our population will be over the age of 65 by the 
year 2030. As the body ages, many physiologic processes begin to decline. 
Health-care providers will need to be well-educated in the many sequelae of 
aging. Practitioners will especially need to focus on the health-care needs of 
women, since women have a longer life expectancy than men. Estrogen deprivation 
occurs in all women. Some will not have any symptoms, while others may 
experience all of its debilitating side effects: hot flashes, osteoporosis, 
insomnia, irritability, depression, and urogenital atrophy. Even though the 
latter is not life-threatening, it can alter a woman's quality of life 
considerably. Because it is easily treatable with minimal risk, all 
practitioners should become familiar with its presentation and management. This 
article discusses the many sequelae of urogenital atrophy: vulvovaginal 
irritation, urinary tract irritative symptoms and infection, urinary 
incontinence, and sexual dysfunction. Diagnosis and current management 
strategies are also discussed in detail.

PMID: 12150759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Przegl Lek. 2002;59(2):79-83.

[Is insertion/deletion polymorphism angiotensin-converting enzyme gene 
responsible for long-life?].

[Article in Polish]

Grzeszczak W(1), Misztalski T.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Chorób Wewnetrznych, Diabetologii Wydziału Lekarskiego w 
Zabrzu, Slaskiej Akademii Medycznej, 41-800 Zabrze, ul. 3 Maja 13/15.

I/D polymorphism of ACE gene is the most frequent examined polymorphism and 
probably very strongly connected to pathology. The majority of studies describe 
negative influence of allele D on frequency and course of given diseases. The 
result of negative effect of this allele should be visible in people with long 
life expectancy. To answer the question: is I/D polymorphism ACE gene 
responsible for long-life, a comparison was made of the genotype map of a group 
of 101 long-life subjects with a group of 494 younger persons. The examination 
used polymerase chain reaction methods. The results were calculated using the 
programme Statistica 5.1 PL. One used the independent chi 2 test and Odds Ratio 
to compare the genotype map and localisation of alleles. After having made 
comparative examination no connection was made between I/D polymorphism ACE gene 
and long-life.

PMID: 12152254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. An Med Interna. 2002 Jun;19(6):283-8.

[Inflammation study in unstable angina and myocardial infarction without ST 
segment elevation. Value of ultra-sensitive C-reactive protein].

[Article in Spanish]

Borrás Pallé S(1), Gómez Martínez E, Romero Rodrigo A, Campos Ferrer C, Molina 
E, Valentín Segura V.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Cuidados Intensivos, Hospital Universitario Dr Peset, Avenida 
Gaspar Aguilar 90, 46017 Valencia. sborrass@terra.es

OBJECTIVES: To analyse the inflammatory state in Acute Coronary Syndromes 
without ST-segment elevation by means of the value of the High-sensitivity 
C-reactive protein and other markers of inflammation. To assess if there are 
differences between unstable angina and myocardial infarction and if it has 
prognostic value of cardiovascular complications during one year follow up.
METHODS: 61 patients diagnosed of Acute Coronary Syndrome without ST-segment 
elevation were studied: mean age of 67 +/- 11 years old, 26% women. The value of 
high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and other inflammatory markers (leukocytes 
and fibrinogen) were analysed and were compared in those patients with unstable 
angina versus myocardial infarction without ST elevation. Follow up during one 
year of cardiovascular complications (death with cardiac origin, infarction, 
refractory ischemia or rehospitalization because of cardiovascular cause) and 
its relation with the inflammatory markers.
RESULTS: 75% of the patients showed increased levels of High-sensitivity 
C-reactive protein (> 2 mg/l). 47 patients (77%) were diagnosed of Infarction 
without ST elevation and the remainders of Unstable Angina. There were no 
statistically significant differences between subgroups, neither in the median 
value of the C-reactive protein: 4.49 mg/l in infarction versus 4.5 mg/l in 
Angina (p = ns) nor in the percentage of patients with high levels of C-reactive 
protein (77% in infarction versus 71% in Angina). With regard to the other 
inflammatory markers (fibrinogen and leukocytes) no differences between 
subgroups were found. None of the inflammatory markers showed predictive value 
about the appearance of the composite end-point during one year follow up.
CONCLUSIONS: The high-sensitivity C-reactive protein is elevated in patients 
with Acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation, but no difference in 
the inflammatory state of patients with unstable angina versus myocardial 
infarction without ST elevation was found. In our series, these markers were not 
related with the risk of cardiovascular complications.

PMID: 12152386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Leuk Lymphoma. 2002 Jun;43(6):1229-37. doi: 10.1080/10428190290026286.

Autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with mantle cell lymphoma.

Oinonen R(1), Jantunen E, Itälä M, Lehtinen T, Kuittinen O, Franssila K, Wiklund 
T, Elonen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

High-dose therapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has 
been considered a potential treatment approach in order to improve the poor 
prognosis in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), but its role has not yet been clearly 
established. We analyzed retrospectively the outcome and prognostic factors in 
48 consecutive patients with MCL scheduled for ASCT in five transplant centers. 
In 14 patients (29%), a sufficient amount of stem cells could not be collected. 
Mobilization failure was associated with female sex, blastoid cytology, and low 
hemoglobin level. Altogether 35 patients underwent ASCT, 24 patients as part of 
the first-line treatment and 11 patients later. After transplantation 28 
patients (80%) remained in or achieved remission. Two patients died of 
transplant-related complications. During the median follow-up time of 38 months, 
nine patients have relapsed. The median event-free survival (EFS) was 39 months. 
Age over 60 years and elevated C-reactive protein level at diagnosis were 
associated with poorer outcome after transelantation. ASCT is an effective 
treatment in MCL with a high response rate and a longer survival than seen in 
conventionally treated patients. However, no plateau was seen in the EFS curve 
after ASCT. Whether cure Can be achieved in a proportion of patients with ASCT 
is currently unknown and should be studied in larger patient series with a 
longer follow-up.

DOI: 10.1080/10428190290026286
PMID: 12152990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Leuk Lymphoma. 2002 Jun;43(6):1273-9. doi: 10.1080/10428190290026330.

Gemcitabine alone or combined with cisplatin in relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma.

Offidani M(1), Mele A, Corvatta L, Marconi M, Malerba L, Olivieri A, Rupoli S, 
Alesiani F, Leoni P.

Author information:
(1)Clinica di Ematologia, Ancona University, Umberto I Hospital, Italy. 
clinemat@popcsi.unian.it

Gemcitabine is a pyrimidine nucleoside analog with antitumor activity against 
solid tumor malignancies and leukemia. We evaluated its activity as a single 
agent and combining it with cisplatin in relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma 
(MM). Sixteen patients with advanced MM received intravenous gemcitabine 1250 
mg/mq (days 1, 8 and 15) as a single agent for a total of 3 monthly courses. The 
responders received another three courses, and the non-responders received three 
courses of gemcitabine 1000 mg/mq (days 1, 8 and 15) plus cisplatin 80 mg/mq 
(day 1). No grade 4 hematological toxicity was seen after gemcitabine treatment, 
whereas > or = 3 grade neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were seen in 21 and 13% 
of the gemcitabine-cisplatin infusions, respectively. Non-hematological toxicity 
was negligible for both the regimens. After three courses of gemcitabine as a 
single agent, th e response rate was 31% (1 complete response, 1 partial 
response and 3 minimal response). Eight patients (50%) achieved stable disease 
and 3 (19%) had disease progression. Ten patients received gemcitabine-cisplatin 
and were evaluable for the response. Two patients progressed, four maintained 
stable disease whereas four patients, unresponsive to gemcitabine, obtained a 
response (3 partial response and 1 minimal response). With a median follow-up of 
13 months (range 8-17.5), 7 patients (44%) died, 5 (31%) had disease 
progression, 1 (6%) relapsed, 1 was still in partial response (+11 months) and 2 
(13%) had a stable disease. Median time to treatment failure (TTF) was 8 months 
(CI95%: 7.6-8.4) and median overall survival (OS) was 16 months (CI95%: 10-22). 
These results showed that gemcitabine and gemcitabine-cisplatin were feasible 
regimens and well tolerated in advanced relapsed-refractory MM. The response 
rates, the TTF and OS were similar to other salvage chemotherapy regimens; 
nevertheless, the quality of response was modest particularly after gemcitabine 
alone. Better results might be obtained combining gemcitabine with other 
chemotherapy compounds or with biologically based therapies.

DOI: 10.1080/10428190290026330
PMID: 12152996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2002 Aug;57(2):145-55. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.2002.01581.x.

The management of primary hyperparathyroidism.

Davies M(1), Fraser WD, Hosking DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Manschester Royal Infirmary, Royal Liverpool 
University Hospital, City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

Recent improvements in parathyroid imaging have led to renewed interest in the 
criteria for, and the surgical approach to, parathyroidectomy. It therefore 
seemed appropriate to review current evidence relating to the evaluation and 
management of primary hyperparathyroidism for those working within a general 
endocrine service. The recommendations are based on an electronic search 
spanning the past decade using the search terms hyperparathyroidism, management 
and parathyroidectomy/surgery, but we have also included key publications 
outside this period. The findings have been graded systematically (Appendix), 
according to the quality of the information available, to indicate the level of 
evidence on which they are based.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.2002.01581.x
PMID: 12153591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. BMJ. 2002 Aug 3;325(7358):275-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.325.7358.275.

Economics notes: Converting international cost effectiveness data to UK prices.

Gosden TB(1), Torgerson DJ.

Author information:
(1)National Primary Care Research and Development Centre, University of 
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2002 Nov 23;325(7374):1244.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.325.7358.275
PMCID: PMC1123781
PMID: 12153929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2002 Aug;41(8):910-6. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/41.8.910.

Surgical treatment of the rheumatoid cervical spine in patients aged 70 years or 
older.

Mizutani J(1), Tsubouchi S, Fukuoka M, Otsuka T, Matsui N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nagoya City University Medical School, 
Aichi, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether surgery is appropriate for elderly rheumatoid 
arthritis patients who are already approaching their statistical life 
expectancy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The subjects were 10 patients who underwent cervical spine 
surgery for rheumatoid arthritis at an age of over 70 yr. The pain grade and 
neurological deficit class according to Ranawat, peri-operative complications, 
causes of death and pre-operative cardiopulmonary function were assessed.
RESULTS: Good pain relief was achieved. Relief of pain enabled the patients, who 
could not sit up even in bed because of intolerable neck pain, to ride in a 
wheel chair without using a neck collar. Only one death was related to surgery. 
Pre-operative cardiopulmonary function was not significantly different compared 
with that of elderly patients undergoing other surgical procedures.
CONCLUSION: Surgery is a valuable option for the management of elderly patients 
with rheumatoid cervical spine since it can improve the quality of life.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/41.8.910
PMID: 12154208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1991 Oct;47(3):72.

[Coresidence with parents and marriage in recent Japan. Comment].

[Article in Japanese]

Toshitani N.

PIP: The relationship between marriage and parent-child relations was studied. 
Marriage was understood as formation of a new family and also as an extension 
and enlargement of a parent generation's family. Kaneko reports that advanced 
level of education of women, change in norm consciousness, and inequality in sex 
ratio at marriageable age contribute to the phenomenon called marriage 
delay/avoidance by influencing a series of events leading up to marriage at some 
point. He makes a novel attempt to elucidate mechanism and impact of various 
factors at play through demographic analysis of the 1st marriage process. This 
attempt is timely because the recent trend in legal sociology is to take more 
dynamic approach in studying marriage and divorce. For example, they include 
premarital and exmarital co-habitations in the scope of their study. Suzuki 
reports that the marriage norm is based upon the notion of marriage for all and 
traditional gender-associated divisions of roles. He says highly educated women 
have a different norm and men perceive this as a disadvantage and regression in 
the marriage norm. The norm has changed: society is severely critical of male 
extramarital sex and less critical of female premarital sex. Sex norms and 
marriage norms are relatively independent of each other. Men's attitude toward 
intergenerational relationships is from the perspective of a child taking care 
of aged parents, while women's attitude toward the same is from the perspective 
of an aged parent, especially a widowed parent. Men prefer separate household 
routines, while women prefer coresidence, both of which reflect the norm 
consciousness of an aging society. Mr. Nakano concludes in his report that 
marriage delay and avoidance among unmarried young Japanese women is due to 
their perception of married life as something of diminishing utility. He 
analyses this attitude toward marriage from the viewpoint of women's career 
options. Their opinions of ideals are polarized, either full time homemaker 
throughout (1/3) or returning to their job market after child bearing/rearing 
(1/3). Only 18.5% of them think balancing family of career as ideal. Hiroshima 
concludes prospective coresidence with parents after marriage is one of the 
factors contributing to later marriages. 60% of male and close to 60% of female 
have intentions of coresiding with the male spouse's parents but 1/2 of them 
change their minds immediately after marriage. There is a trend for the only 
child to seek another only child in marriage and reside half way between 2 sets 
of parents.

PMID: 12155028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1985 Apr;(174):19-39.

[Tempo and parity structure of Japanese fertility].

[Article in Japanese]

Kono S, Ishikawa A.

The present study is part of a larger project on the formal demographic analysis 
of Japanese fertility. It deals with the most elusive aspect of fertility, that 
is the tempo of fertility. The temporal aspect of fertility, particularly in 
terms of cohort fertility framework with speical reference to parity of women, 
has been emphasized by Whelpton and Ryder, but in the Japanese demography there 
have scarcely been studies of this aspect, probably due to lack of interest. In 
very recent years, however, interest has grown, reflecting the need for more 
accurate fertility projections in the future in connection with population 
projections. The present study is an application of life table techniques to 
explore the temporal aspect of fertility in Japan. 2 methods have been used. One 
is the age-marriage-parity specific net reproduction rate tables, which were 
first constructed by the senior author of this paper. The other is by Professor 
Chin Long Chiang at the University of California, Berkely. In the application of 
the former type, net reproduction rate tables were constructed for 3 dates -- 
1970-71, 1975-76, and 1980-81. Through this method, it was demonstrated that 
recent fertility for the period 1980-81 was reduced, partly because of the 
decline in fertility in live-birth order of 1 and 2 among the relatively young 
ages up to 25 years old. On the other hand, for the ages up to 30 years old, 
some catching-up mechanisms took place. The 2nd method is by Chiang's new 
approach to the fertility table. According to his method, which was included in 
his new book entitled Life Tables and Its Applications, parity-oriented 
fertility tables have been constructed for the Japanese females for every year 
from 1971 through 1983, both inclusive. In these cases, denominator is for year 
z while numerator is concerned with yea z + 1. This method is particularly 
interesting since it can calculate waiting time for childbearing until the 
completion of family formation. Some of the findings indicated: 1) recent 
increases in both parity progession ratio and parity-specific fertility rate in 
low parity augur a future increase in fertility in the period measure in the 
near future; and 2) a shortening of the waiting time until the completion of 
family formation around 1981 and then the recovery of its lengthening in the 
years 1982 and 1983 suggest a recent trend of lengthening actual reproductive 
period which definitely contributes to an increase in fertility.

PMID: 12155037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1976 Jan;137:7-12.

[Population problems appeared by the age group 1. Elderly and employment].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaneko T.

PIP: The average life expectancy has been rising in Japan since the Second World 
War. However, if one looks into the statistics of labor force, the unemployment 
among those who are 65 or older, is rising with the prolonged life expectancy. 
It appears that the employment rate of elderly is more influenced by the rise or 
decline of the nation's economic growth than the younger generation. For 
example, after 1967 when the nation's economy declined, the unemployment among 
the elderly people increased significantly in spite of their desires to work. It 
is also interesting to note that in the subsequent years, this increased 
unemployment among the elderly seemed to help prolong their life expectancy. The 
author cautions that it is too premature to say that not working may increase 
the life expectancy among elderly people. However, statistics show that working 
seems to keep very old people alive. The author comments that working itself is 
not the condition for long life but the people who live to reach the very old 
age are very healthy people. They are able to work in spite of their old age. 
The author concludes that the jobs for elderly should be chosen according to the 
individual ability and will to work.

PMID: 12155049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1979;(150):62-9.

[Life tables by marital status].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PMID: 12155065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1980 Apr;(154):26-45.

[The changes and prospects of the Japanese population quality from the viewpoint 
of nutrition and eating habit].

[Article in Japanese]

Uchino S.

PIP: Nutrition was a key factor for the demographic revolution of postwar Japan. 
Before the war boiled rice formed the staple diet of the people, while their 
intake of animal proteins increased slowly but steadily. After the war the ratio 
of cereal to the total calorie intake dropped from 70% in 1950 to 50% in 1974, 
while animal proteins in the diet increased from 25% to 50% during the same 
period. 1974 coincided with the year in which the Japanese people's life 
expectancy reached the top level among the nations in the world. Japan lies half 
way between developing countries with high cereal intake and many western 
nations with high animal protein intake. Changes in the Japanese diet were 
partly due to the urbanization and the large scale rural-urban migration. The 
inclusion of rice in all three meals of the day decreased inversely with 
urbanization/migration as well as educational and professional levels of 
individuals. In 1976, 62.3% of Japanese had rice 3 times a day; 16.7%, twice a 
day. 5.7% skipped breakfast all together. 27.4% of single males, 25% of people 
between the ages of 20-24 skipped breakfast, and the majority of them were found 
among migrants and in bigger cities. Although the Japanese people enjoy low 
birth/death rates and longevity, health problems among 45-50 year olds, anemia 
among women, obesity, and a lack of physical strength among 30-year-old males 
are noted. Health and nutrition of aging population are also becoming an 
important issue.

PMID: 12155097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1980 Apr;(154):62-82.

[The quality of population from viewpoints of the level of education and changes 
in social demands].

[Article in Japanese]

Wakabayashi K.

PIP: Educational level as an attribute of population quality is significant from 
the socioeconomic point of view. Knowledge and skills acquired through education 
affect productivity, standard of living, and social activities of the 
population. Education as a form of investment is well illustrated by man power 
policy adopted in connection with economic growth policy. Since 1955 the focus 
of the Japanese population policy shifted from the question of quantity to that 
of quality. Education was expected to meet the needs of the society 
characterized by accelerated socioeconomic growth and technological 
developments. The great emphasis was placed on the education, training, and 
supply of scientific and technological professionals. Science curriculum, 
vocational training programs, career counseling, and guidance programs were 
expanded and improved. The percentage of population with higher education has 
rapidly increased since 1955 and is rising. High educational level of the 
population has greatly contributed to modernization and socioeconomic growth of 
Japan, but it also changed the composition of population in terms of education 
and employment. The importance of having an appropriate balance between economic 
growth and social development which concerns health and welfare of the 
population has been also noted. Since 1970 with longer life expectancy and 
prospective aging population the need for life long integrated education has 
come into focus.

PMID: 12155103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Schweiz Z Volkswirtsch Stat. 1983 Mar;119(1):79-84.

[The limit to lowering the mortality of the Swiss population].

[Article in French]

Haldy M.

PIP: Recent changes in causes of death in Switzerland are reviewed, and their 
implications for life expectancy by sex and for the age distribution of the 
population are assessed.

PMID: 12157702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Int J Forecast. 1992 Nov;8(3):315-27. doi: 10.1016/0169-2070(92)90050-j.

Stochastic demographic forecasting.

Lee RD.

"This paper describes a particular approach to stochastic population 
forecasting, which is implemented for the U.S.A. through 2065. Statistical time 
series methods are combined with demographic models to produce plausible long 
run forecasts of vital rates, with probability distributions. The resulting 
mortality forecasts imply gains in future life expectancy that are roughly twice 
as large as those forecast by the Office of the Social Security Actuary.... 
Resulting stochastic forecasts of the elderly population, elderly dependency 
ratios, and payroll tax rates for health, education and pensions are presented."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/0169-2070(92)90050-j
PMID: 12157861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Int J Forecast. 1992 Nov;8(3):393-411. doi: 10.1016/0169-2070(92)90055-e.

Modeling and forecasting U.S. sex differentials in mortality.

Carter LR, Lee RD.

"This paper examines differentials in observed and forecasted sex-specific life 
expectancies and longevity in the United States from 1900 to 2065. Mortality 
models are developed and used to generate long-run forecasts, with confidence 
intervals that extend recent work by Lee and Carter (1992). These results are 
compared for forecast accuracy with univariate naive forecasts of life 
expectancies and those prepared by the Actuary of the Social Security 
Administration."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/0169-2070(92)90055-e
PMID: 12157866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Popul. 1990;2:187-212.

Residential mobility in France and in Paris since 1945: the history of a cohort.

Bonvalet C, Lelievre E.

Using data from two retrospective surveys carried out in France in 1981 and 
1986, the authors "reconstitute the residential history of a cohort 
and...measure the differences [in migration histories] between Paris and the 
whole of France.... We shall attempt to reconstruct the residential histories of 
these individuals, by analysing firstly the stage when they left their parents 
to set up their first independent home, and secondly mobility throughout their 
life course, paying particular attention to the extension of home ownership in 
this cohort."

excerpt

PMID: 12157909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Popul. 1991;3:215-35.

The demographic situation of Europe and the developed countries overseas: an 
annual report.

Monnier A, De Guibert-lantoine C.

PIP: Current levels and trends in population growth and characteristics for 
Europe during 1989 and 1990 are estimated. Births, deaths, fertility, 
nuptiality, divorce, abortion, and life expectancy data are presented in tabular 
format. Selected statistics for other developed countries are included.

PMID: 12157916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Popul. 1991;3:33-63.

Reconstitution of annual life tables for nineteenth-century France.

Mesle F, Vallin J.

"The nineteenth century was not one of runaway health progress, but it marked a 
deep transformation of mortality conditions [in France]. The reconstitution of 
mortality tables by single years of age and calendar years makes it possible to 
