study this transformation in detail, and to distinguish between period 
fluctuations and structural changes. In the present article, we have given 
preference to graphic representation, and purposely limited the statistics.... 
We have also given preference to the period approach." Consideration is given to 
annual mortality trends, life expectancy, age-specific probability of dying, the 
war-related crisis years of 1813, 1871, and 1915, and differentials in mortality 
by sex. Data generally concern the period 1806-1898.

excerpt

PMID: 12157917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Popul. 1995;7:125-44.

Estimating mortality in Benin from a multi-round survey (1981-83).

Laourou HM.

"We shall in the present study proceed as follows: first, present the 
methodology used for the Benin Multi-Round Survey (BMRS); second, analyse the 
quality of the data, by evaluating the impact of mobility on the results, by a 
critical assessment of the levels obtained for several mortality indicators and 
by using indirect methods to estimate the coverage of deaths occurring between 
rounds; third, construct the first life tables for Benin based on raw data. We 
shall then consider in what these life tables are specific, and where they 
diverge from the standard life tables."

excerpt

PMID: 12157926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Popul. 1995;7:187-202.

The demographic situation of Europe and the developed countries overseas: an 
annual report.

Monnier A, De Guibert-lantoine C.

PIP: Tabular data for Europe are provided on population, births, and deaths; 
infant mortality rates; total fertility; first marriage rates; extramarital 
births; total divorce rates; legal abortions and rates; and life expectancy at 
birth. The data cover primarily the period from 1970 to 1994.

PMID: 12157928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Popul. 1996;8:123-54.

Health crisis in Russia. I. Recent trends in life expectancy and causes of death 
from 1970 to 1993.

Shkolnikov V, Mesle F, Vallin J.

The authors analyze trends in life expectancy and causes of death in Russia from 
1970 to 1993, with a focus on reasons for the recent declines in life 
expectancy. "Before discussing the trends themselves, we shall...look at the 
possible distortions that changes in data quality may have produced. However, 
even if it has been exaggerated to some degree, nobody contests the reality of 
the Soviet health crisis, and we shall attempt to derive some explanation by 
analysing the age and cause-of-death structures of mortality in Russia."

excerpt

PMID: 12157934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Popul. 1989 Sep;44(1):291-321.

Comparative study of mortality trends in France and the Czech Republic since 
1950.

Rychtarikova J, Vallin J, Mesle F.

PIP: This is a comparative study of mortality trends in France and the Czech 
part of Czechoslovakia by age, sex, and cause of death from 1950 to 1985. The 
authors note that during this period, life expectancy in both countries grew but 
the disparity between the two nations also increased, with France having the 
higher life expectancy. This difference is examined, and implications for the 
broader disparity in mortality between Western and Eastern Europe are 
considered.

PMID: 12157949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Soc Change. 1995 Jun-Sep;25(2-3):116-8.

Girl child: her rights and law.

Gokhale SD.

PIP: This article points out the disparity between India's laws to protect 
female children and their actual living conditions. It is asserted that the role 
of women needs to be strengthened and that equal rights are executed to the 
advantage of children. Equality must come at the very beginning of life. Girl 
children need access to health, nutrition, education, and other basic services. 
In India, girls are guaranteed an equal right to education, but fewer girls are 
enrolled in primary school, and very few girls go on to secondary schools. There 
is no enforcement of compulsory laws, which particularly disadvantage girls from 
poor families. Girls marry below the legal minimum age. Early childbearing 
shortens women's life expectancy and adversely affects their health, nutrition, 
education, and employment opportunities. Prevention of early child marriage 
should be strictly enforced. Amniocentesis is performed in order to determine 
the sex of the child and abort female fetuses. The Juvenile Justice Act of 1986 
includes special provisions for the protection, treatment, and rehabilitation of 
girls under 18 years old and of boys younger than 16. This act protects girls 
trapped in brothels for child prostitution and protects any person engaged in an 
immoral, drunken, or depraved life. Juvenile Welfare Boards address the problem 
of neglected girls and offer special protective homes and supervision by 
probation officers. The act needs to strengthen noninstitutional services, such 
as sponsorship, family assistance, foster care, and adoption. Girl children grow 
to womanhood. Effective social development in childhood reaps rewards in 
adulthood.

PMID: 12157999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Soc Change. 1995 Jun-Sep;25(2-3):44-54.

Integrated health of the girl child.

Ghosh S.

PIP: This article discusses factors that affect the well-being and health of 
female children in India: sex ratio, literacy, food intake, morbidity, 
mortality, early marriage, maternal mortality, nutrition, prenatal care and 
delivery, family planning responsibilities, and access to health services. India 
has recognized within its Constitution and other government documents and 
programs equality for women, but practices lag behind principles. A National 
Action Plan was formulated for the period 1991-2000 for the girl child. Women 
themselves must change their attitudes about themselves and their female 
children. Several pilot programs have demonstrated the potential to empower 
girls to be outspoken, vocal, and enthusiastic. Girls in India are disadvantaged 
even before their birth. Patriarchal norms reinforce the view of girls as a bad 
investment. Women are blamed for not bearing a son, despite the evidence that 
males carry the deciding gender-specific chromosome. Tamil Nadu districts are 
known for their female infanticide. The declining sex ratio is attributed to the 
higher death rate among females younger than 35 years. Females until recently 
had a lower life expectancy than males. Sex ratios vary between states. The only 
state with a positive female sex ratio is Kerala. Males outnumber females by 
almost 10% in most of the northern and eastern states. Illiteracy among women is 
high in about 100 districts. Female school enrollment is 50% less than male 
enrollment. Females suffer from higher rates of malnutrition, morbidity, and 
death. Girls' adolescent growth spurt is delayed until 18 years. Maternal 
mortality accounts for the largest proportion of deaths among women of 
reproductive age. The most common reason for abortion is "too many children." 
Lower socioeconomic status is associated with lower nutrition. Women do not have 
control over their fertility. Women are limited in their access to reproductive 
health care.

PMID: 12158016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Demos. 1988:13-4.

[The Latin American demographic situation from a world perspective. Region in 
transition].

[Article in Spanish]

Zlotnik H.

PIP: Latin America is in a period of transition where mortality is relatively 
low (8/1,000) and fertility is relatively high (30 births/1,000 in 1985) with an 
annual growth rate of 2.2% and total population of 404 million in 1985. Life 
expectancy increased from 60 to 65 years between 1970-1985, while fertility 
decreased from 5.3-3.8 children/woman. This drop did not occur uniformly in all 
23 countries; for instance, in Argentina it stayed the same, whereas in Cuba it 
decreased from 3.47-1.98. The decrease from 6.37-4.20 children in Mexico is 
especially important because of her burgeoning population of 79 million, not 
unlike Brazil whose population was 135 million in 1985 and the fertility rate 
dropped from 4.70 in 1970 to 3.81 in 1985. Life expectancy increased an average 
of 4%-9% between 1970-75 and 1980-85 for the region except for El Salvador where 
it dropped. The decrease of fertility in Mexico was the most rapid in the 1970's 
and 1980's. Mortality did not change significantly in Bolivia, Guatemala, Haiti, 
Nicaragua, and Peru; in 1980-85 life expectancy was still less than 61 years of 
age. There was a wide growth rate difference between the 3.6% of Honduras in 
1980-85 and the 0.6% of Cuba. Most countries rates were 1.4% over the median 
being represented by Brazil and Mexico (2.4% and 2.2% respectively) whose total 
population comprises 54% of Latin America. This combined growth could well 
produce an aggregate Latin America. This combined growth could well produce an 
aggregate Latin American population of 760 million by 2025.

PMID: 12158021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Demos. 1988:18-9.

[The future population of Mexico. 123 million by the year 2010].

[Article in Spanish]

Madrigal Hinojosa R.

PIP: Recent data on fertility in Mexico have allowed identification of the most 
likely of 2 alternative population projections through the year 2010. The 
projection assumes an increase in life expectancy for men and women respectively 
from 64.08 and 70.47 in 1980-85 and 77.00 in 2005-10. The migration assumption 
is that there will be a net loss of 529,274 Mexicans every 5 years. The total 
fertility rate is expected to decline from to 2.7. The total population was 
projected at 82.8 million in 1988, 104.0 million at the end of the century, and 
123.2 million in 2010. The 0-14 age group will decline from 44.23% of the 
population in 1980 and 40.33% in 1985 to 31.41% in 2000 and 29.50% in 2010. The 
proportion aged 15-64 will increase from 52.45% in 1980 and 56.22% in 1985 to 
63.96% in 2000 and 64 75% in 2010. The proportion of the population in 
localities with under 2500 inhabitants is expected to remain stable at about 
24.3 million persons. Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, and Puebla will have 
a combined population of 35 million by the year 2000. In 2010, the Federal 
District and the State of Mexico which includes Mexico City are expected to 
contain 29.3% of the total population. The projected population increase over 
the next 22 years is 40.4 million, 16% greater than the national population in 
1960. The implications for providing food and consumer goods, and especially for 
improving the quality of life are serious. The relative demand for primary and 
secondary education and for maternal-child health care will decline, but the 
demand for jobs and for family planning services will increase as the proportion 
of the population in the economically active age groups increases.

PMID: 12158023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Demos. 1988:5-6.

[Mortality. The behavior of mortality through 1987].

[Article in Spanish]

Jimenez R.

PIP: Mexico's crude death rate has declined from 33/1000 in the early 20th 
century to about 6/1000 in 1985-87. Mortality declined sharply from 1640-60. 
more slowly from 1960-77, and rapidly again beginning around 1980. The 
explanation for the mortality decline lies both in advances in medical and 
health care and in economic growth of the country. The mortality declines in the 
late 1970s and early 1980s probably resulted primarily from extension of primary 
health care programs in rural areas. The infant mortality rate has declined from 
288.6/1000 live births in 1900 to 73.8 in 1960 and 42 in 1986-87. At present 30% 
of deaths in Mexico are to children under 5, but little is known of the impact 
of the country's economic crisis on mortality in this age group. The strong 
mortality decline between 1950-70 was in the economically active age group of 
15-64 years. Excess male mortality in this group reached a maximum in 1980: for 
each death of woman there were 150 male deaths. Between 1960-80 the rate of 
deaths due to infection, parasfitism, and respiratory disease declined by 5%, 
the rate of death from cancer remained almost unchanged, and the rate of death 
from cardiovascular diseases increased by 9%. Deaths from accidents, homicide, 
suicide, and other violence increased by 38%. Male general mortality rates were 
25% higher than female in 1980. Mexican life expectancy increased from 49.6 
years in 195 to 67 in 1987. Life expectancy was 65.6 for males and 71.7 for 
females. Average life expectancy was 69 for the more privileged social sectors 
and 56.7 for agricultural workers in 1965-79. The life expectancy of urban women 
was 3 years longer than that of rural women and 10.4 years longer than that of 
rural men.

PMID: 12158030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Demos. 1993;(6):28-9.

[Demographic aging and social security. The insufficiency of old age pensions].

[Article in Spanish]

Ham Chande R.

PIP: The demographic transition is leading to demographic aging in Mexico, as 
lower fertility and greater life expectancy combine to produce absolute and 
percentage increases in the elderly population. Concern is growing about 
satisfying the material needs of the elderly population. Only a few developed 
countries are able to furnish adequate pensions to their retired workers through 
social security systems. In Mexico, class inequity is a greater determinant of 
the level of pension coverage than is generational solidarity. Mexico's 1990 
census showed that the population of 81,250,000 was comprised of 24,517,000 
economically active and 56,733,000 inactive persons. Of the 24,517,000 
economically active, 7,282,000 mostly lower level employees and laborers were 
affiliated only with the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS). 2,308,000 
were covered by the IMSS and one of the complementary pension systems sponsored 
by the largest and most organized private companies. 2,629,000 were entitled to 
pensions through public sector employment and 584,000 through quasipublic 
employment. The remaining 11,571,000 had no rights to a pension. In other words, 
47% of the labor force was not covered by any retirement pension system. 375,000 
of the 5,007,000 persons over age 60 in the economically inactive population had 
some sort of pension from the IMSS. In 1990, 92% received the minimum pension, 
equivalent to 70% of the minimum salary. 229,000 had an IMSS pension and a 
complementary private pension. 196,000 pensioners in the public sector received 
an average pension of 1.5 times the minimum salary. 66,000 retired workers in 
quasipublic enterprises received pensions with automatic adjustments for 
inflation that frequently equaled 20 times the minimum salary. The total number 
of recipients of pensions of all types was 888,000,leaving 4,119,000 persons 
over 60 with no pension. Because of the deficiencies of the social security 
system, families must continue to be the institution that aids the elderly.

PMID: 12158054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Demos. 1993;(6):8-9.

[Fifty years of mortality or the result of social inequality].

[Article in Spanish]

Jimenez Ornelas R.

PIP: An average of 30 years has been added to Mexican life expectancy in the 
past five decades. Women and men born in 1940 had life expectancies of 41.5 and 
39.5 years, respectively, compared to 72.8 and 66.7 in 1990. Mortality declined 
most sharply between 1940 and 1960, and declined at varying rates in the 
subsequent decades. In the decade from 1980 to 1990, the mortality decline 
slowed. The differential in life expectancy between men and women amounted to 
6.2 years in 1980 and 6.1 in 1990. The high life expectancy of women means that 
future advances will be more difficult to achieve. The greater survival of 
Mexicans over the five decades is due to improvements in living conditions, 
advances in preventive and curative medicine, and social policy. The slower pace 
of mortality decline in the past decade may perhaps have been due to 
deteriorating living conditions, reduced priority accorded to social policies in 
the areas of health and education, and declining real incomes. Mexican health, 
education, and other social policies have favored the urban and industrial 
centers, increasing regional disparities. A comparison of life expectancies in 
Oaxaca, one of the most impoverished states of Mexico, and Puebla, which has 
somewhat better conditions, with life expectancies in the wealthy state of Nuevo 
Leon and the Federal District demonstrates the influence of the level of 
development on life expectancy. Life expectancy in 1990 in Oaxaca and Puebla was 
the equivalent of that for all of Mexico ten years earlier. Men in Oaxaca live 
five years less on average than men in Nuevo Leon. But the gain in life 
expectancy for males was higher in Oaxaca between 1980 and 1990 than in the 
other states.

PMID: 12158056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Demos. 1994;(7):9-11.

[Mortality in 1992. Regional inequalities and years of life lost].

[Article in Spanish]

Gomez De Leon Cruces J.

PIP: Life expectancy at birth in Mexico doubled from 35 years in 1930 to 70 
years in 1994. An important component of this improvement was the decline in 
infant mortality from over 190/1000 in 1930 to 30/1000 in 1994. The improved 
living standards, expansion of basic infrastructural services, and increased 
educational level and availability of health services that explain the improved 
mortality performance are not equitably distributed throughout the national 
territory. The socioeconomic backwardness of some regions is reflected in their 
high mortality rates. Years of potential life lost may be used as an indicator 
of the regional inequities. For Mexico as a whole, men lose 38% more years of 
potential life than women before age 85. Men lose 18.7 years on average while 
women lose 13.5. Men lose more years than women on average from each of three 
large groups of causes. Men and women, respectively, lose 3.62 and 2.92 years 
from communicable diseases, maternal and perinatal disorders; 11.19 and 9.68 
years from noncommunicable disorders; and 3.88 and 0.89 years from accidents and 
lesions. For both sexes, the share of years lost to noncommunicable diseases, 
also referred to as chronic and degenerative diseases, greatly exceeds that of 
the other two large groups of causes, suggesting that Mexico is well advanced in 
the epidemiologic transition. Examining female mortality separately, Oaxaca and 
Chiapas are extreme cases of high mortality, with over 16 years of potential 
life lost. Nuevo Leon is at the other extreme, with under 11 years lost. When 
the years of potential life lost are classified into the three large groups, the 
greatest difference between the high and low mortality groups is in 
transmissible diseases. The low mortality states with fewer than 12 female years 
of life lost showed fewer than two lost to transmissible diseases. In states 
like Chiapas and Oaxaca, more than five years were lost to transmissible 
diseases. States with the highest mortality rates are in general those 
experiencing the most rapid declines, so that the overall trend is toward a 
convergence of mortality rates.

PMID: 12158063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Demos. 1992;(5):6-7.

[The population of Latin America: population dynamics from 1990 to 2050].

[Article in Spanish]

Chackiel J.

PIP: Past population projections have proven deficient in predicting demographic 
changes and their intensity. Projections did not envision a decline of nearly 
40% in Latin American fertility in two decades. The projections in this work are 
cautious and based primarily on past trends and the expected continuation of a 
process leading eventually to replacement level fertility. The economic crisis 
of the 1980s has generated pessimism regarding the continuation of fertility 
declines based on economic progress. For the projection, the Latin American 
countries were classified into four stages of demographic transition. Most Latin 
American countries, including the three most populated, were considered to be in 
the third stage, characterized by fertility and mortality in full transition. A 
table of demographic indicators contains projections for the years 2010, 2025, 
and 2050 for all of Latin America and for Bolivia, Guatemala, Mexico, Brazil, 
and Argentina, which are considered to represent the four stages of transition. 
Latin America as a whole in 1990 had a population of 430,182,000, with a total 
fertility rate of 3.1, life expectancy at birth of 69 years, and natural 
increase rate of 2.1%. 36% of the population was under 15 years old. In 2010, 
2025, and 2050, respectively, the population is projected to increase to 587 
million, 686 million, and 785 million; the total fertility rate to decline to 
2.3, 2.1, and 2.1; life expectancy at birth to increase to 72 years, 74 years, 
and 74 years, and the natural increase rate to decline to 1.2, 0.8, and 0.3%. 
The proportion of the population under 15 will decline to 28% in 2010, 24% in 
2025, and 21% in 2050.

PMID: 12158077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Demos. 1992;(5):8-9.

[Mortality in 1990. Mortality levels as indicated in the 1990 population 
census].

[Article in Spanish]

Mina Valdes A.

PIP: An abbreviated life table for Mexico is presented, based on findings of the 
1990 census and deaths registered around 1990. The estimated life expectancy at 
birth in 1990 of 69.99 years was 3.5 years higher than the corresponding 
estimate based on the 1980 census. The gain in life expectancy averaged 3 years 
for ages 1-20 years, 2 years for ages 30-40 years, and 1-1.5 years for ages 
45-65. The principal causes of general mortality were heart disease, accidents, 
malignant tumors, infectious intestinal diseases, and diabetes mellitus. The 5 
principal causes of infant mortality were disorders arising in the perinatal 
period, infectious intestinal disorders, pneumonia and influenza, congenital 
anomalies, and nutritional deficiency disorders. Gains in life expectancy during 
the 1980s were significant because of the decline in infant mortality, but 
infant mortality levels remain high compared to those of other countries. 
Differentials in infant mortality rates in different states were significant, 
with 1990 rates ranging from 70/1000 in Oaxaca to 30 in the Federal District. 
The differentials in infant mortality rates were reflected in life expectancies. 
In the Federal District and the states of Nuevo Leon, Nayarit, and Tamaulipas, 
life expectancy exceeded the national average by 2-5 years. The proportion of 
deaths in the earliest age group that were not reported declined at the national 
level from around 20% in 1980 to around 10% in 1990. Census-based infant 
mortality estimates for 1990 were more reliable than those for 1980.

PMID: 12158078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Demos. 1997;(10):32-3.

[Changes in the status of women].

[Article in Spanish]

De Barbieri T.

PIP: Fundamental changes have occurred during the 20th century in the status of 
women in Latin America, as elsewhere. The first stage entailed the struggle for 
basic citizens' rights (voting and holding office), concluded between 1929 (in 
Ecuador) and 1962 (in Paraguay). The second stage began around 1945 with 
broadening of property, employment, and other civil rights of women. This phase 
has not yet ended in several Latin American countries where husbands still have 
authority over their wives in different spheres of life. The third stage, still 
underway, began in the 1970s with the appearance of feminism and of women's 
organizations in different sectors of society. The changes did not appear 
simultaneously or coherently in all countries. They were stimulated in some 
cases by outside forces, including, at different times, the Inter-American 
Commission of Women, various UN organizations, the World Bank, and the 
Inter-American Development Bank. Since midcentury, there has been an increase in 
the average life expectancy of Latin American women from 53.5 to 71.4 years, 
increases in female rates of school enrollment to near parity at all levels to 
those of males, a decline in the total fertility rate from 5.9 to 3.1, and 
significant increases in female economic activity. Beginning in the 1970s, other 
limitations on the freedom and equality of women became part of the public 
debate in various countries. Questions such as the failure of husbands to 
perform an equitable share of domestic work, gender wage differentials, sexual 
harassment, and domestic violence began to prompt changes in laws and norms, 
creation of service agencies and government offices for women, design of 
specific public policies, and other measures. It must be noted that Latin 
American societies are structured on three great sources of social inequality: 
gender, class, and ethnicity. Laws and norms are applied to very different 
realities and produce different effects. Middle- and upper-class women have 
enjoyed the greatest apparent improvements in status. Changes have been slow in 
filtering to the more impoverished societal sectors.

PMID: 12158087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Demos. 1991;(4):4-5.

[Population dynamics in Mexico: 1895-1990. The great demographic change].

[Article in Spanish]

Mier Y Teran M.

PIP: In Mexico as in many other countries, the demographic transition began with 
mortality decline. With the great epidemics largely disappearing by the mid-19th 
century as a result of public health and sanitation measures, the mortality rate 
stabilized and began an accelerated decline after 1920. Life expectancy at birth 
was about 30 years in 1900 and declined during the decade of the Mexican 
Revolution. By the 1980s it had risen to 69 years. Fertility remained at high 
levels with slight variations until the late 1960s, when it began to decline 50 
years after the start of the mortality decline. Government family planning 
programs intended to reduce the rate of population growth accelerated the 
fertility decline. Great changes thus affected Mexico¿s population during the 
20th century. The total population increased from 14 million in 1900 to 82 
million in 1990. Population growth was relatively slow and constant at around 
1.3% until about 1910. It accelerated from the 1920s to the 1960s, and the 
number of children under age 15 increased sharply. Growth rates began to decline 
and the population to age in the 1970s. By the 1980s, Mexico¿s fertility rate 
reached an all-time low. The decline of population growth will be more apparent 
when the first cohorts of reduced size reach the peak fertility years shortly 
after 2000. Mexico¿s demographic transition is not yet complete. The evolution 
of fertility will be decisive in future demographic dynamics.

PMID: 12158093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Demos. 1989;(2):12-3.

[Changes in the status of women].

[Article in Spanish]

De Barbieri T.

PIP: Information from a diversity of sources indicates that the roles and status 
of women underwent changes of unsuspected magnitude in the 1980s. Trends 
observed in different social realms at different time periods appear to have 
converged, leading to redefinition of the activities and life courses of large 
sectors of the Mexican female population. The life expectancy of Mexican women 
is 71 years, the average age at marriage is 21 years, and the average family 
size is 3.8 children. Women migrate to other areas of Mexico and other 
countries. Their illiteracy rate declined by 9.5% between 1970 and 1980 to 20.1% 
over age 15, or 7.8% for women aged 15-19. In 1986, an estimated 15.3% of women 
aged 15-49 were illiterate, 26.9% had incomplete primary, 19.7% had complete 
primary, and 38.1% had secondary or higher. Educational statistics demonstrate 
strong and increasing female enrollments. The trend to greater female employment 
continued in the 1980s, with married women and mothers moving into the work 
force in great numbers. Increased job opportunities and declining family incomes 
were among factors encouraging female employment. Women continued to perform 
most of the domestic work, however. Reduced social spending and subsidies for 
basic goods led to a return to households of responsibilities and expenditures 
previously covered by the government. Women appear to have massively penetrated 
traditional male spheres of society, raising questions about the reactions of 
males and the completion of functions previously assumed by women.

PMID: 12158097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Demosta. 1988;21(2):39-41.

Population development of Czechoslovakia in 1987.

Ales M.

PIP: Population dynamics in Czechoslovakia in 1987 are reviewed. Information is 
included on fertility, natural increase, mortality, international migration, 
marriage, divorce, induced abortion, and life expectancy.

PMID: 12158135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Demosta. 1980;13(3):xxi-.

[Statistical surveys].

[Article in Esperanto]

Czechoslovakia. Federalni Statisticky Urad.

PIP: Tables are included on territory and population of Czechoslovakia; 
population development, 1869-1970; mortality by selected causes, 1960-1978; life 
expectancy by age, 1920-1978; live birth, death, abortion, marriage, and divorce 
rates, 1975-1980; and natural movement of the population, 1975-1980

PMID: 12158162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Demosta. 1982;15(1-2):11-4.

Population development of Czechoslovakia in 1981.

Dvorak J.

PIP: Selected demographic data for Czechoslovakia in 1981 are presented. Data 
are included on natural increase, marriage, divorce, abortion, fertility, 
mortality, life expectancy, causes of death, internal and international 
migration, and total population.

PMID: 12158170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Demosta. 1981;14(3):xxi-.

[Statistical surveys].

[Article in Esperanto]

Czechoslovakia. Federalni Statisticky Urad.

PIP: Data are included on territory and population in Czechoslovakia; population 
development, 1869-1980; resident population by sex, 1970 and 1980; population by 
broad age group, 1970 and 1980; population by nationality, 1980; economic 
activity; housing; population density; natural increase, 1971-1980; number of 
women aged 15-29, 1978-1980; marriage and divorce, 1978-1980; abortion, live 
births, and reproduction rate, 1978-1980; population over age 60, 1978-1980; 
mortality and life expectancy, 1978-1980; infant and neonatal mortality, 
1978-1980; mortality and causes of death, 1979-1980; infant mortality by cause, 
1979-1980; internal and international migration, 1978-1980; sex ratio, 
1978-1980; and natural increase, 1975-1981.

PMID: 12158178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Demosta. 1982;15(1-2):i-.

[Statistical surveys].

[Article in Esperanto]

Czechoslovakia. Federalni Statisticky Urad.

PIP: Data are included on natural increase in Czechoslovakia, 1972-1981 and 
1976-1982; number of women aged 15-29, 1979-1981; nuptiality, divorce rate, 
abortions, and live births and fertility, 1979-1981; population over age 60, 
1979-1981; mortality, life expectancy, and infant mortality, 1979-1981; causes 
of death, 1980-1981; internal and international migration, 1979-1981; and sex 
ratio, 1979-1981.

PMID: 12158179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Demosta. 1980;13(4):111-5.

New population and households projections in Czechoslovakia, 1980 until 2000.

Srb V.

PMID: 12158183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Demosta. 1981;14(Spec No):1-36.

Position of women in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic.

Nentvichova B, Ruzkova J.

PMID: 12158186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Poblacion. 1995 Jun;(3):3.

[CONAPO and the National Population Policy Law].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PIP: In the 15 years of its existence, Peru's Consejo Nacional de Poblacion 
(CONAPO) has consolidated efforts begun in 1964 with creation of the Center for 
Studies of Population and Development, which promoted research and national 
awareness of population themes. In 1976, the Guidelines for Population Policy 
were formulated to provide orientation for a diagnosis of Peru's 
sociodemographic situation and its causes, and recommendations for future 
action. CONAPO was created in 1980 to coordinate and evaluate public sector 
actions and programs for population and to promote private sector activities. 
The National Population Policy Law was approved and promulgated in early 1985. 
The law reflects an integrated vision of the population problem, touching all 
essential aspects related to the family, education, employment, development, and 
the environment. Among achievements of Peru's population activities have been 
the increase in life expectancy from 54 to 60 years and decline of mortality 
rates from 14 to 8/1000. The crude birth rate declined from 42 to 30, and the 
growth rate from 2.9 in 1970 to 2.0 in 1990. Despite the efforts and 
achievements, serious population problems continue to challenge the national 
population program.

PMID: 12158267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Minzoku Eisei. 1996;62(3):139-53. doi: 10.3861/jshhe.62.139.

[Sex differential in life expectancy at birth in Japan: (2) trends in sex 
differential in life expectancy at birth from 1920 to 1990].

[Article in Japanese]

Watahiki N, Nishida S.

Sex differentials in life expectancy at birth in Japan are analyzed for the 
period 1920 to 1990. The results show that there was a general increase in 
differences in mortality by sex over time. "The sex differential in age-specific 
death rate in 0-4 year age group (particularly age 0) explained most of the sex 
differential in life expectancy at birth before 1947. After 1950, the age group 
of 60-79 played a major role in the sex differential in life expectancy at 
birth. It is noteworthy that female mortality exceeded male mortality in age 
groups of 2-41 before 1930. Consequently, excess of female mortality reduced the 
sex differential in life expectancy at birth at that period. As for the sex 
differential in mortality rates by causes of death, tuberculosis, pregnancy and 
childbirth related disease exerted a great influence...before 1940. Recently, 
malignant neoplasms, heart diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, and accidents 
[have] become leading contributors to the sex differentials in life expectancy 
at birth." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

DOI: 10.3861/jshhe.62.139
PMID: 12158346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Minzoku Eisei. 1996;62(3):127-38. doi: 10.3861/jshhe.62.127.

[Sex differential in life expectancy at birth in Japan: (1) the sex differential 
in recent years].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishida S, Watahiki N.

PIP: Reasons for the differences in life expectancy by sex observed in Japan in 
the period since 1990 are examined using data from official sources. The authors 
note that differences in mortality over age 50 account for around 70% of the sex 
differential in life expectancy at birth. They show that heart diseases, 
cerebrovascular diseases, pneumonia and bronchitis, suicide, accidents, and 
particularly malignant neoplasms are the main contributors to sex differences in 
mortality, and conclude that male life expectancy could be improved by changes 
in male lifestyles.

DOI: 10.3861/jshhe.62.127
PMID: 12158348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Eur J Popul. 1987 May;2(3/4):335-60. doi: 10.1007/BF01796596.

Targeting lifesaving: demographic linkages between population structure and life 
expectancy.

Vaupel JW, Yashin AI.

PIP: Life expectancy in a heterogeneous population can be increased by lowering 
mortality rates or by averting deaths at different ages, from different causes, 
or for different groups, as well as by changing the proportions of individuals 
in various risk groups, perhaps by altering the transition rates between groups. 
As the formula derived in this paper illustrates, there is a linkage that exists 
between population structure and life expectancy. The 1st 3 approaches used--the 
comparative-statistics, the dynamics, and the 'second-chance' approaches--yield 
analytical solutions that are general and that may facilitate insight. The 4th 
approach--computer simulation--is useful in attacking complex models that do not 
yield to the other 3 approaches. In addition to policy applications, the methods 
and formula presented in this paper are useful in gaining a deeper demographic 
understanding of how mortality rates, deaths, risk groups, and life expectancy 
are interrelated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796596
PMID: 12158947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Eur J Popul. 1987 Nov;3(1):33-60. doi: 10.1007/BF01797091.

Age-specific mortality trends in France and Italy since 1900: period and cohort 
effects.

Caselli G, Vallin J, Vaupel JW, Yashin A.

PIP: The age/sex-specific mortality trends of France and Italy were studied over 
the 1899-1979 period in as much detail as possible in an effort to distinguish 
between cohort effects and those related to period changes. Complete series of 
mortality data by individual years of age and calendar years were available from 
1869 to 1979 for Italy and from 1899 to 1982 for France. For both countries, 
these data include the military and civil deaths not registered in vital 
statistics during the war periods. They cover each national territory as defined 
by its present boundaries. The graphical representation method of mortality 
surfaces, elaborated by Vaupel, Gambill, and Yashin (1985), was adopted. The 
age/sex-specific mortality patterns of France and Italy have not followed the 
same trends, and the differences observed today are not those of 100 years ago. 
The mean death probabilities for the 1975-79 period were used to illustrate the 
age-specific patterns of mortality. Although infant mortality was higher in 
Italy than in France, the death probabilities at ages 1-15 for both sexes were 
roughly the same for both countries. At ages 15-23, they were much higher in 
France than in Italy, and they remained considerably higher in France up to age 
55. From then on, the sexes differ: for males, the 2 countries showed similar 
patterns, whereas for females the probabilities were noticeably higher for 
France. The situation was very different for both countries at the beginning of 
the century. For both sexes, higher mortality was observed in Italy not only 
during infancy but throughout childhood and the adolescent years up to age 15. 
The 2 countries showed similar patterns from 15-25. Above age 25, the 2 
countries had similar patterns for females, whereas male mortality was higher in 
France right up to the old age groups. Such differences in the age-specific 
mortality trends depend in part on a different development of health and social 
conditions but also may be due to factors concerning the history of particular 
groups of generations. The general health progress made in both countries has 
played an important role but, on the whole, a more favorable role in Italy. 
Italy's infant and child mortality have drawn nearer the French level, while it 
has increased its advantage regarding adult mortality. France has strengthened 
its position only at older ages. There have been many perturbations since 1900, 
the most important of which has been the 2 world wars. They affected the 2 
countries differently both in terms of their immediate effects on both the civil 
and military populations and in the longterm effects on the cohorts that had 
suffered most. These cohort effects, largely related to World War I, seem to 
have disappeared at this time, most likely in part because of selection 
relevelling the chances of survival of the various cohorts and in part because 
of general health progress masking the slight differences that may remain.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01797091
PMID: 12158949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Eur J Popul. 1998 Sep;14(3):291-301. doi: 10.1023/a:1005950728054.

Social differences in the decline of marital reproduction in rural Navarre 
(Spain).

Sanchez JJ.

PIP: The continued decline of marital fertility in Navarre, Spain, during the 
first few decades of the 20th century was associated with an increase in life 
expectancy and greater survival to adulthood. While the decline affected all 
social strata and geographical regions, it was not homogeneous, with some 
sectors of Navarrese society beginning the fertility transition earlier than 
others. Using data drawn from the nominal lists of the 1940 Spanish Census on 
married women aged 45-49 years, the author investigated the influence of 
differences in geographical origin, level of urbanization, father's occupation, 
level of religious devotion, and political factors upon the observed decline in 
marital fertility. The data support the originators of demographic transition 
theory, that the more urban populations, and therefore those with a higher 
percentage of the active population working in nonprimary sectors, led the 
fertility decline. The degree of a society's secularization also influenced the 
beginning of the decline of fertility and the levels reached.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005950728054
PMID: 12158984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Eur J Popul. 1992;8(1):47-75. doi: 10.1007/BF01797121.

The historical decline of fertility in Eastern Europe.

Leasure JW.

PIP: Quantitative data from the Princeton European Fertility Project were used 
to explain the determinants of change in attitudes which lead to use of birth 
control within marriage and fertility decline in terms of the growth of autonomy 
over one's political, personal, religious, economic, and reproductive life. The 
following countries, which are arranged by their chronological order of marital 
fertility decline, were used in the primarily quantitative analysis: Hungary, 
Czechoslovakia, Greece, Yugoslavia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, and Albania. 
Prior research had identified an association between a decline in the birth rate 
and the presence of revolutions nationalist independence movements, or 
democratic reform movements. The connection is that once control over one's 
political and economic destiny is made, there is an extension into one's 
reproductive behavior. Further refinement has occurred. Autonomy is grounded in 
reason, the natural rights of individuals, and independence of thought. 
Reflective of this autonomous spirit were affiliations with Congregational, 
Presbyterian, Quaker, Unitarian, and Universalist religions. The present 
analysis is historical and describes the events surrounding the decline in 
marital fertility. These events might have preceded, been concurrent with, or 
followed the decline, but the thesis remains that the growth in autonomy 
contributes to political changes and fertility decline. The primary measure of 
fertility is Ig developed by Coale, and sustained decline maps of Coale and 
Watkins. Crude birth rate and total fertility rate were also used. the 
provincial analysis was impeded by lack of long time series for some countries 
and boundary changes. The hypothesis is generally supported, except in the case 
of Yugoslavia which varies too much. Support for the thesis was stronger in some 
countries than in others. Sustained decline occurred by each country in 
different periods, e.g., in Hungary it began between 1850-60 while in Albania it 
began in the decade 1960-70.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01797121
PMID: 12158997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Eur J Popul. 1998 Mar;14(1):1-17. doi: 10.1023/a:1006040321755.

An expert-based framework for probabilistic national population projections: the 
example of Austria.

Lutz W, Scherbov S.

PIP: This study recommends a probabilistic scenario approach for population 
projections. The benefits are better information, ease of adoption, and expert 
opinion on the mean and range of uncertainty. The study answers whether it 
matters if high and low variants cover 85% or 95% of the range. An assumption of 
piece-wise linear random paths may underestimate the variance of the resulting 
population age distribution. A more realistic random path would have short-term 
fluctuations with some degree of autocorrelation. The expert-based probabilistic 
approach is applied to Austria. Official projections to 2050, account for 3 
alternative migration assumptions and the usual fertility and life expectancy 
assumptions. Austria may have an absolute deficit of 60,000 persons after 2025. 
Population aging will increase from 19.7% to over 30%. The mean age of 
population will reach 50 years. The social implications of the alternative 
degrees of population aging are likely to have significant effects, such as on 
the pension system. The results of a test of the sensitivity of results for 85% 
and 95% confidence intervals and the impact on population size and old-age 
dependency outcomes reveal larger standard deviations and differences between 
fractiles with the 85% assumption of all cases lying between high and low 
values. Differences were larger between 85% and 90%, although not very 
significantly, than between 90% and 95%. When assuming short-term fluctuations, 
there was a greater range of uncertainty in the first 20 years than a standard 
linear interpolation, but long-term projections had lower standard deviations.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006040321755
PMID: 12159000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Eur J Popul. 1985 Jan;1(1):31-60. doi: 10.1007/BF01796917.

The fall of marital fertility in nineteenth-century France: exemplar or 
exception? (Part I).

Wrigley EA.

PIP: In France, the decline in marital fertility began in 1800 and preceded the 
marital decline in other European countries by about 70 years. The French 
decline is generally regarded as differing from the decline in other European 
countries only in timing, and the decline in all these countries is attributed 
to the innovative use of modern fertility control methods, which once 
introduced, were widely and rapidly accepted. An alternative explanation for the 
early decline in French fertility is presented. It is argued that the fertility 
decline in France between 1800 and 1980 reflects an adjustment process. It was 
suggested that in a peasant society, in contrast to an industrial society, there 
are only a limited number of available economic niches, and economic pressures 
will be intense if the population growth rate increases rapidly. In order to 
keep the population growth rate in balance with the economic resources, the net 
reproductive rate (NRR) must be kept near unity. In France, unity was maintained 
by keeping the marital fertility rate in balance with the nuptiality and 
mortality rates. Data on the population growth rates, mortality rates, marital 
fertility rates, NRRs, and on life expectancy is presented to support this 
argument. In France, between 1700-1800, the population increased by 35% and 
between 1800-1900 by 38%. This increase was exremely small compared to that 
which occurred in other European countries. For example, in England the 
corresponding increases were 71% and 252%. These differences in growth were the 
result of differences in the marital fertility patterns of the 2 countries. 
Before 1800, marital fertility in France was similar to that of other European 
countries, but after 1800 the French rate declined rapidly. By 1840 it was 2/3 
of the 1800 level, and by 1900 it was 1/2 of the 1800 level. In other European 
countries marital fertility did not begin to decline until the 1870s. The 
decline in France differed not only in timing, but in form. When these declines 
were plotted on a line graph, the differences in form were immediately apparent. 
The French decline was choppy, and there is even an increase in marital 
fertility between 1850-1870. In contrast, the decline in other European 
countries was sharp, consistent, and smooth. During the 1700s in France there 
was a marked increase in the age at marriage and in the proportion of never 
married individuals. By the late 1700s a strain in the nuptiality pattern was 
evidenced by a marked increase in the illegitimacy rate and in the number of 
premarital pregnancies among brides. Subsequently, there was an increase in the 
nuptiality rate. In addition, life expectancy leaped from 28-39 years between 
1790-1820. To compensate for both the increase in nuptiality and the decline in 
mortality, couples apparently limited births. These efforts to keep the marital 
fertility rate, the mortality rate, and the nuptiality rate in balance are 
evidenced in the NRR which varied from only 0.97-1.08 throughout the 1740-1880 
period. The adjustment explanation is supported by the fact that while the 
marital fertility rate varied between 1740-1880, the NRR rate; remained stable. 
A subsequent paper will analyze regional differences. In using a equilbrium 
model, it is necessary to determine if the unity observed in the national NRR is 
a statistical artifact, resulting from large regional differences canceling each 
other out at the national level.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796917
PMID: 12159012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Eur J Popul. 1985 Jan;1(1):81-112. doi: 10.1007/BF01796919.

Modern family initiation in Sweden: experience of women born between 1936 and 
1960.

Hoem Jm Rennermalm B.

PIP: This report investigates the trends in the initial phases of the family 
building process for Swedish women in 5-year cohorts born between 1936-60, using 
life table techniques. Nonmarital cohabitation was much more widespread in the 
pre-WW II cohort than has been previously realized. Among never married women, 
1st birth fertility was remarkably stable for those in and those not in a 
consensual union alike. Strong increases in nonmarital fertility have resulted 
from progressively increasing exposure to the higher fertility of consensual 
unions instead of to the very low fertility of single women. Cohabitational 1st 
birth fertility is not high compared to marital fertility. (author's modified)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796919
PMID: 12159015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Links. 1992 Spring;9(2):5-6.

Cuban health system -- call it superior?

Brown AF.

PIP: In a response to an article by Benjamin and Haendel on the Cuban medical 
system (Links, Fall 1991), A.F. Brown criticizes the 2 authors for failing to 
call the Cuban medical system by its rightful name: superior to that of the US. 
According to Brown, Benjamin and Haendel's own data bear out the fact that Cuba 
has a better medical system than the US. Life expectancy is 76 years in Cuba 
compared with 75 in the US. Doctor/patient ratio is double that of the US. In 
1990, there were no measles cases in Cuba compared with 25,000 cases in the US. 
In Cuba, there is 100% prenatal care coverage and hospital delivery; abortion is 
free and available on demand; and immunization rates are nearly 100%. As Brown 
explains, the 2 authors omit an important feature of comparison between the 2 
systems: in Cuba there is free and universally available medical care, while 
some 35 million US citizens lack any health insurance. In their article, 
Benjamin and Haendel describe Cuba's response to the AIDS epidemic--mass testing 
for HIV and confining all seropositive cases--as draconian. But according to 
Brown, the fact that Cuba's rate of infection is 0.19/100,000 compared with a 
rate of 13.88/100,000 in the US validates the policy. Brown also dismisses 
criticism that there are too many doctors in Cuba, that nurses have a low 
status, and that such physician-heavy system is not cost-effective. Failure to 
acknowledge the superiority of the Cuban health care system, Brown maintains, 
reflects an attitude that such a system is too good for them--and better than 
ours.

PMID: 12159270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Links. 1993 Winter;9(5):22-3, 29.
