
The invisible force. Midlife and older women.

Sennott-miller L.

PIP: Women over 40 years of age comprise only between 9% and 20% of the 
population of Latin America and the Caribbean, but their numbers are growing. 
Life expectancy for women in the region is expected to exceed 71 years by the 
year 2000. In Costa Rica, women are responsible for more than 36% of urban 
households headed by persons over 60, according to a report. Many women in 
developing countries continue to bear children in their forties. In the 1980s 
the major causes of death for women over 45 in Latin America were heart disease, 
cerebrovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes mellitus, accidents and 
pneumonia/influenza. Cancer is the leading cause of death followed by heart 
disease. In urbanized countries chronic liver disease is a prime cause of death, 
often as the result of alcohol abuse. Infectious diseases such as influenza, 
pneumonia, and intestinal infections are more lethal in countries with more 
rural populations. Beginning at about age 35, cancer ranks first or second as a 
cause of death. Breast and uterine cervix cancers are the most deadly for both 
Latin American and Caribbean women. In the less developed and rural countries 
cancer of the cervix predominates. In more developed countries breast cancer is 
more prevalent. Lower cervical cancer rates in more developed countries occur 
because of greater use of PAP smears. Among women aged 65 years and older, heart 
disease and strokes are the main causes of death in both Latin America and the 
Caribbean. Diabetes and other chronic degenerative diseases are increasing 
throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. Diabetes is among the leading causes 
of death both in midlife and older women in 13 of the 18 Latin American 
countries and 6 of the 10 Caribbean nations. Among Latin American and Caribbean 
women at midlife and older chronic undernutrition is common. An estimated 37% of 
adult women in the Caribbean are anemic, 26% in Central America, 14% in tropical 
South America, and 12% in temperate South America. Osteoporosis with the 
potential for fractures is common among older women in the region. 
Community-based and home health care programs may be the solution for the health 
care needs of midlife and older women.

PMID: 12159275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Links. 1991 Fall;8(3):3-6.

Cuba. A healthy revolution?

Benjamin M, Haendel M.

PIP: Discussing Cuba's remarkable accomplishments in health care, this article 
considers the cost of maintaining such a system at a time of economic hardship. 
Following the revolution of 1959, Cuba has achieved immense advances in health 
care. Today, its infant mortality rate if the lowest in Latin America and at par 
with industrialized countries. Its life expectancy is actually higher than that 
of the US. At 1 doctor for every 297 inhabitants, Cuba has one of the highest 
ratios in the world. Furthermore, the island nation has created a pharmaceutical 
industry that supplies 80% of the country's needs, and has a developed high-tech 
medical techniques which rival the best in the world. And beginning in 
mid-1980s, Cuba began the Family Doctor Program, in which a physician lives and 
works in the neighborhood and acts as a public health advocate, while remaining 
part of the larger health care system. The program has been very popular with 
the population, and evidence suggests that the program has been highly 
successful in reducing infant mortality, the number of emergency room visits, 
and the average hospital stay. Despite its remarkable success, Cuba's health 
care system does attract criticism. Some charge that Cubans are 
"over-medicated," and that Cubans no longer take responsibility for their 
health. Also, some charge that the country has too many doctors and not enough 
assistants, nurses, and midwives. These criticisms have become even more 
pointed, as the country's economic crisis deepens. People complain about the 
scarcity of food. And due to drastic cuts in Soviet aid and the US blockade, 
Cuba has been forced to impose severe austerity measures. While the authors 
believe it unlikely that Cuba will be able to maintain its health care system, 
they say that ending it will be tragic.

PMID: 12159276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Renkou Yanjiu. 1980;(2):36-44.

[A study on mortality rates and expectation of life at birth in demography].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang HC.

PIP: An "age-time-area diagram" (referred to as a-t diagram) which is used as 
the basis for discussing different used and applications of variously defined 
mortality rates, as well two kinds of measurements for life expectancy is 
proprosed. The proposal is built upon the Lexis diagram. The a-t diagram is used 
to define a new way of measuring child mortality, projecting population, and 
proposing a formula for measuring successive and nonsuccessive life expectancy.

PMID: 12159327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nufusbil Derg. 1987;9:39-54.

Validation and application of U.N. model life tables against Thailand data, 
1973-1983.

Podhipak A.

The author applies models of age and sex mortality, developed by the United 
Nations in 1982 for developing countries, to data for Thailand for the years 
1973-1983. Following a discussion of the development of the four mortality 
patterns and their models, the author traces changes in Thailand's mortality 
trends using the U.N. model life tables. "This study reveals the change of 
mortality patterns in Thailand, moving from [the] Latin American to [the] Far 
Eastern pattern.... The proportional mortality ratio of population over 60 years 
of age has gradually increased from 28.7% in 1973 to 42.0% in 1983 and the sex 
ratio of mortality in this group [has] also slightly increased during this 
decade." (SUMMARY IN TUR)

excerpt

PMID: 12159414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nufusbil Derg. 1993;15:89-109.

[Sex ratios in Turkey].

[Article in Turkish]

Ozsoy AE, Koc I, Toros A.

"The article [provides] examples of error in the censuses and surveys and 
questions the reliability of age specific sex ratios in the 1990 Census of 
Turkey...[and derives] sex ratio at birth from census and survey results as well 
as from hospital records. Finally the 1990 population is reconstructed by 
surviving birth cohorts [from] 1900 until 1990 using historical trends of birth 
rates and cohort, age and time specific survival rates using the East Family of 
Coale-Demeny Model Life Tables." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12159427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nufusbil Derg. 1992;14:27-51.

[Marriage rates and their life table analysis in Turkey].

[Article in Turkish]

Koc I.

PIP: The author examines Turkey's marriage rate, using life table data for the 
period 1975-1990. Consideration is given to gender and age differentials, 
remarriage, and length of time spent in an unmarried state. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12159443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Int Migr. 1990 Dec;28(4):443-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1990.tb00491.x.

Mortality differentials among immigrant populations in Canada.

Sharma RD, Michalowski M, Verma RB.

PIP: Mortality among different groups of migrants to Canada is compared with 
that of native-born Canadians and with trends in the migrants' countries of 
origin, using data for the period 1981-1985. Results show that life expectancy 
at birth among migrants in Canada is generally higher than that of the 
populations at place of origin and destination. (SUMMARY IN FRE AND SPA)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1990.tb00491.x
PMID: 12159559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Ren Kou Xue Kan (Taipei). 1980 Jun;(4):19-34.

Life tables analyzed by cause of death: some methodological considerations.

Chang HC, Jensen RE.

PMID: 12159730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Fam Pract. 2002 Jul;51(7):630-5.

Should intrathecal narcotics be used as a sole labor analgesic? A prospective 
comparison of spinal opioids and epidural bupivacaine.

Fontaine P(1), Adam P, Svendsen KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice Community Health, University of Minnesota 
Medical School, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. pfontaine@famprac.umn.edu

OBJECTIVE: Intrathecal narcotics (ITNs) are being used in some settings as a 
sole labor analgesic. However, they have not been directly compared to epidural 
analgesia.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a prospective observational design.
POPULATION: Eighty-two women with uncomplicated full-term pregnancies were 
enrolled upon analgesia request during spontaneous labor with cervical dilation 
3 to 7 cm. Sixty-three chose ITNs (morphine and fentanyl), and 19 chose epidural 
analgesia (continuous infusion of bupivacaine and fentanyl).
OUTCOMES MEASURED: Pain scores were documented using a visual analog scale. 
Satisfaction and side effects were rated with Likert scales during a structured 
interview on the first postpartum day. Outcomes were analyzed with multivariate 
regression techniques.
RESULTS: Intrathecal narcotics were associated with significantly higher pain 
scores than was epidural analgesia during the first and second stages of labor 
and on an overall postpartum rating. The median effective duration of action for 
ITNs was between 60 and 120 minutes; however, ITNs provided excellent analgesia 
for a subgroup of women who delivered within 2 to 3 hours of receiving them. 
Although women in both groups were satisfied with their pain management, women 
receiving ITNs had statistically lower overall satisfaction scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limitations of a nonrandomized study, a single 
intrathecal injection of morphine and fentanyl has a shorter duration of action 
and provides less effective pain control than a continuous epidural infusion of 
bupivacaine and fentanyl. However, ITNs may have a role in settings with limited 
support from anesthesiologists or for women whose labors are progressing 
rapidly.

PMID: 12160502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Haematologica. 2002 Aug;87(8):795-803.

Clinical value of the quantitative expression of the three epitopes of CD34 in 
300 cases of acute myeloid leukemia.

Maynadié M(1), Gerland L, Aho S, Girodon F, Bernier M, Brunet C, Campos L, 
Daliphard S, Deneys V, Falkenrodt A, Jacob MC, Kühlein E, LeCalvez G, 
Moskovtchenko P, Philip P, Carli PM, Faure GC, Béné MC; GEIL.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie biologique, CHU de Dijon, 2 Boulevard Maréchal de 
Lattre de Tassigny, 21034 Dijon Cedex, France. mmaynadie@chu-dijon.fr

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2003 Jun;88(6):ELT22; author reply ELT23.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The various epitopes of the CD34 molecule have been 
classified according to their different sensitivities to enzymatic cleavage by 
neuraminidase, chymopapain and a glycoprotease from Pasteurella haemolytica. 
Although monoclonal antibodies have been developed that specifically identify 
these epitopes, few studies have evaluated the distribution and quantitative 
expression of such epitopes on leukemic blasts.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We report here a prospective multicenter study in which we 
examined and quantified the expression of the 3 classes of CD34 on fresh 
leukemic blast cells from 300 cases of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The binding 
of monoclonal antibodies was studied by flow cytometry, allowing evaluation of 
blast cell positivity as well as their mean fluorescence intensity. These 
quantitative data were made comparable between centers by means of a calibration 
curve established with the same reagents in all laboratories.
RESULTS: Quantitative expression of class I epitope was significantly higher 
than that of class II and class III epitopes (p<0.0001). The three classes were 
more frequently expressed in M0 and M1 and less in M3 and M5. The highest levels 
of CD34 expression were observed in M2, M0 and M1 and the lowest in M3, M5 and 
BAL for class II and III. CD34 expression was lower for all classes in cases 
with a normal karyotype, compared to in cases with structural or numerical 
abnormalities.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In cases with a t(9;22) the expression of class 
I was significantly higher than that of class II and III and the opposite was 
observed in AML with t(15;17). Moreover, as a whole, a high intensity of class 
III CD34 appeared to be a marker of good prognosis.

PMID: 12161354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Haematologica. 2002 Aug;87(8):808-15.

Intensified double induction therapy with high dose mitoxantrone, etoposide, 
m-amsacrine and high dose ara-C for elderly acute myeloid leukemia patients aged 
61-65 years.

Schaich M(1), Illmer T, Aulitzky W, Bodenstein H, Clemens M, Neubauer A, Repp R, 
Schäkel U, Soucek S, Wandt H, Ehninger G; SHG AML96 Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik I, Universit tsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus, 
Fetscherstrasse 74, 01307 Dresden, Germany. schaich@mk1.med.tu-dresden.de

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2002 Aug;87(8):786.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Treatment outcome in elderly patients with acute 
myeloid leukemia (AML) is still disappointing. However, some trials showed that 
increasing the dosage of anthracyclines within induction therapy improved 
treatment outcome substantially. We, therefore, tried to escalate induction 
therapy further in a group of young elderly AML patients.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In a multicenter trial 33 patients aged 61-65 years with de 
novo or secondary AML were treated with double induction therapy including high 
dose mitoxantrone, etoposide and ara-C (MAV) in the first course and m-amsacrine 
together with high dose ara-C (MAMAC) in the second course. Treatment results 
were compared to those in 39 AML patients older than 65 years receiving 
conventional double induction therapy including daunorubicin and ara-C (DA I and 
DA II) within the same time period.
RESULTS: Compared to results achieved with conventional induction therapy, 
intensified double induction therapy did not significantly improve CR rates, 
overall or disease-free survival. Hematologic toxicity was not different between 
the two groups, but non-hematologic toxicity was significantly higher with 
MAV/MAMAC. This was mainly due to gastro-intestinal or liver toxicity. The rate 
of early mortality (death within the first 12 weeks) was 42% in the group 
receiving intensified therapy and 18% in that given conventional induction 
therapy (p=0.04).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSION: Intensification of double induction therapy using 
high dose mitoxantrone and high dose ara-C in AML patients aged 61-65 years did 
not lead to improved treatment outcome and conferred an unacceptable early death 
rate due to high non-hematologic toxicity. Risk-adapted or alternative treatment 
strategies are needed to improve treatment outcome in these young elderly AML 
patients.

PMID: 12161356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Dent Res. 2002 Jul;81(7):446-50. doi: 10.1177/154405910208100702.

Patient preferences and the measurement of utilities in the evaluation of dental 
technologies.

Birch S(1), Ismail AI.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, L8N 3Z5, 
Canada.

Advances in life sciences that are predicted in the 21st century will present 
many challenges for health professionals and policy-makers. The major questions 
will be how to allocate resources to pay for costs of new technologies and who 
will best benefit from advances in new diagnostic and treatment methods. We 
review in this paper the concept of utility and how it can be applied and 
expanded to provide data to help health professionals make decisions that are 
preferred by patients and the public at large. Utility is a measure of people's 
well-being or preferences for outcomes. The measurement of utilities of a new 
diagnostic technology, for example, can be carried out with the use of simple 
methods that do not incorporate all of the uncertainties and potential outcomes 
associated with providing the test, or with more complex methods that can 
incorporate most uncertainties. This review describes and critiques the 
different measurement methods of utilities.

DOI: 10.1177/154405910208100702
PMID: 12161453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Science. 2002 Aug 2;297(5582):811. doi: 10.1126/science.1071851.

Biomarkers of caloric restriction may predict longevity in humans.

Roth GS(1), Lane MA, Ingram DK, Mattison JA, Elahi D, Tobin JD, Muller D, Metter 
EJ.

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1071851
PMID: 12161648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2002 Jun;74(2):54-6.

The role of combined method in organ-sparing treatment of muscle-invasive 
bladder cancer recurrences.

Startsev VY(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Hospital No 122, Central Roentgenoradiological Institute of 
Scientific Research, St.-Petersburg, Russia. vlad_startsev@mail.ru

OBJECTIVE: To determine the local control and survival of patients with bladder 
cancer recurrences (BCR) treated by operative methods, external beam 
radiotherapy (EBRT) and adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We have treated 180 patients (114 men, median age 64.5 
years, range 56-73) with documented transitional-cell non-metastasized BC 
recurrences: 90 T2N0M0 and 90 T3aN0M0. All patients received different 
operations (transurethral resection and partial cystectomies) and definitive 
EBRT (total dose varied from 50 to 64 Gy with a mean of 60.5 Gy, 5 days a week). 
In a second group of patients we performed 3 courses of 4-drug regimen ACT 
administered with EBRT. ACT consisting of cisplatin and adriamycin i.a. and 
methotrexate and vinblastin i.v. (M-VAC) was administered on the fourth week 
after radiation therapy.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 87.2% (157 patients), including 98 
complete responses and 59 partial responses. The complete response rates in 
patients with clinical stage T2 and T3a disease was 64.4 and 44.4%, respectively 
and it was slightly higher in patients with a non-papillary cancer than in those 
with a papillary one. The actuarial results at 3 years of disease-free rate 
after EBRT + ACT were: 61.2% for T2 (p < 0.04) and 49.1% for T3 (p < 0.07). The 
acute toxicity was mild: no hematological and renal toxicity over grade II, 14 
(7.8%) cases of bowel or rectal reversible grade II toxicity and 12 (6.7%) cases 
of reversible grade III cystitis. ACT was discontinued in 4 (4.4%) cases due to 
acute gastrointestinal toxicity and in 3 (3.3%) more, due to poor patient 
compliance.
CONCLUSIONS: Four-drug ACT is feasible without major toxicity and offers a 
potentially curative and conservative treatment for patients with localized 
muscle-invasive BC (bladder cancer) recurrences. Bladder conservation therapy 
may be offered to selected patients with BC recurrences as an alternative option 
to radical cystectomy, and its use should be limited to teams of 
uro-oncologists, experienced in multi-modalty treatment.

PMID: 12161935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(10):639-52. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200220100-00001.

Cost of illness of Crohn's disease.

Bodger K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Clinical Sciences Centre, University Hospital 
Aintree, Liverpool, UK. kbodger@liverpool.ac.uk

Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease of unknown aetiology 
which affects around 35,000 people in the UK (population 56.8 million). The 
potential for onset in early adult life, disease chronicity and a need for 
hospitalisation and surgery mean that the disease can be associated with 
substantial healthcare costs. Cost-of-illness studies focusing on direct medical 
costs have identified that over half the average costs associated with the 
disease relate to hospital costs. Estimates of the contribution of drug costs to 
the total direct economic burden have varied between 4.6 and 25%. Figures for 
average annual direct costs per patient in the US have been put at between US 
dollars 6561 (1990 values) and US dollars 12,417 (1994 values), whereas European 
studies have given much lower cost estimates (US dollars 655, 1994 values). 
However, all studies have highlighted that much of the total cost of illness 
relates to extensive interventions required by a small proportion of severely 
affected individuals. Indirect costs associated with reduced productivity in 
Crohn's disease can be high, with long periods of absenteeism and early 
disability. However, most patients (90%) remain in the workforce and life 
expectancy is relatively normal. A variety of drugs are employed for the 
treatment of Crohn's disease, both in an attempt to induce clinical remission in 
active disease and to maintain remission once this has been achieved. 
Comparative data on cost effectiveness is lacking, though crude estimates based 
on randomised trials suggest that the frequently prescribed aminosalicylates, 
which have only modest efficacy, are a relatively costly drug option. The costs 
associated with adverse drug effects, particularly for corticosteroids, have not 
been formally quantified. Despite high costs, new drug therapies for more severe 
disease, such as anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) antibodies, may prove a 
cost-effective option if the need for hospitalisation is reduced. In a modelling 
exercise, a US group estimated that if a theoretical new drug was introduced 
which was capable of reducing non-drug costs (including hospitalisation) by a 
fifth despite doubling the overall drugs bill, there would still be a reduction 
in the overall costs of Crohn's disease by 13%. Although surgical therapy is 
costly, there may be prolonged post-surgical remission following resection of 
localised disease and early surgery may represent a cost-effective option for 
selected patients. Without formal cost-effectiveness analyses, or (better still) 
clinical trials incorporating cost data, decisions about the relative efficiency 
of treatment alternatives for Crohn's disease remain subjective and more 
research is clearly required in this area.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220100-00001
PMID: 12162753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2002 May-Jun;11(5-6):302-9. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892002000500005.

[Why should there be equity in health?].

[Article in Spanish]

Sen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Economia de la Salud, York, Reino Unido.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892002000500005
PMID: 12162827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2002 May-Jun;11(5-6):439-43. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892002000500021.

Equity and systems of intergenerational transfers in Latin America and the 
Caribbean.

Pelaez M(1), Martinez I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Promotion and Protection, Family Health and Population 
Program, Unit on Aging and Health, Pan American Health Organization, Washington, 
D.C., USA.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892002000500021
PMID: 12162843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Scand J Surg. 2002;91(2):155-9. doi: 10.1177/145749690209100204.

Endovascular treatment of aortic aneurysms in Finland: the first four years' 
experience.

Aho PS(1), Pimenoff G, Salenius JP, Leinonen S, Ylönen K, Manninen H, Jaakkola 
P, Perälä J, Edgren J, Keto P, Roth WD, Salo J, Sipponen J, Aarnio P, Jalonen T, 
Lepäntalo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Finland. pekka.aho@hus.fi

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: In this study the results of endovascular treatment of 
aortic aneurysms in Finland are presented and compared to the results of the 
Eurostar registry.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 229 patients with aortic aneurysm were treated 
in five different Finnish centres during 1996-2000. The data of these patients 
were collected prospectively by surgeon or interventional radiologist involved. 
During the same period of time 2464 patients were registered in the Eurostar 
registry.
RESULTS: The procedure was performed successfully in 97% of patients in Finland, 
and the 30-day mortality was 0,9%. A graft limb thrombosis was detected in 9% of 
the patients in Finland. A permanent primary endoleak at the first 30-day 
control was seen in 23 patients (10%). During the follow-up 17 secondary 
endoleaks (7%) were detected. A secondary intervention was necessary in 26% of 
the patients. Three patients (1.3%) had late rupture of the abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the Finnish short-time results, endovascular treatment 
of aortic aneurysms is safe and associated with relatively low morbidity and 
mortality. The mid-term results are more disappointing with relatively many 
graft thromboses and endoleaks, and a frequent need of secondary interventions.

DOI: 10.1177/145749690209100204
PMID: 12164515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Scand J Surg. 2002;91(2):182-5. doi: 10.1177/145749690209100209.

Bipolar hemiartroplasty in the treatment of hip fracture: are special centres 
necessary for the optimal outcome?

Sarvilinna R(1), Pajamäki J, Sovelius R, Puolakka T, Huhtala H, Järvinen M.

Author information:
(1)Medical School, University of Tampere, Finland. Sarvilinna@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: This study compares retrospectively clinical follow-up of 
72 bipolar arthroplasties made either by specialist surgeons or residents.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 72 patients with a life-expectancy of more than three 
years were selected to have bipolar arthroplasty for the treatment of femoral 
collum fracture at Tampere University Hospital district during 1993-1995. The 
average age of the patients was 70 (47-92) years. All patients were followed at 
least 4 years for mortality as well as primary and late complications. A group 
of 49 (68%) patients could be followed more carefully by clinical examination, 
by questionaire or by phone.
RESULTS: 20 (28%) patients died during the first three years after surgery and 
four (6%) patients were re-operated. The bare preoperative clinical estimation 
made by the senior consultant surgeon did not predict good enough the life 
expectancy of the patients. Four patients had been revised, all operated by a 
senior surgeon. There were no revisions among the patients operated by junior 
doctors. No statistical differences were found between the patients operated by 
junior or senior surgeons or between cemented and cementless prostheses in pain, 
walking distances, limping, getting in to a car, need of support or sitting in 
high or normal chair.
CONCLUSIONS: The bipolar arthroplasty was found to give reproducible results 
also when residents take the responsibility of hip fracture treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/145749690209100209
PMID: 12164520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Oncology (Williston Park). 2002 Jul;16(7):986, 988.

Need for improved physician-patient communication about phase I trials.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12164563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Arch Neurol. 2002 Aug;59(8):1291-5. doi: 10.1001/archneur.59.8.1291.

A new dominant spinocerebellar ataxia linked to chromosome 19q13.4-qter.

Brkanac Z(1), Bylenok L, Fernandez M, Matsushita M, Lipe H, Wolff J, Nochlin D, 
Raskind WH, Bird TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7720, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Arch Neurol 2002 Dec;59(12):1972.

BACKGROUND: The autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a 
clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders. 
Although molecular genetic studies have so far implicated 16 loci in the 
etiology of these diseases, approximately 30% of families with SCAs remain 
unlinked.
OBJECTIVES: To report the location of a gene causing a "pure" autosomal dominant 
cerebellar ataxia in one family and to describe the clinical phenotype.
PATIENTS: We have identified a 4-generation American family of English and Dutch 
ethnicity with a pure cerebellar ataxia displaying an autosomal dominant pattern 
of inheritance. The disease typically has its onset in the third and fourth 
decades of life, shows no evidence of anticipation, progresses slowly, and does 
not appear to decrease life expectancy. Clinical DNA testing excluded SCA1, 2, 
3, 6, 7, and 8.
METHODS: A genome-wide linkage analysis at a 10 centimorgan (cM) level was 
performed with samples from 26 family members (11 affected, 10 clinically 
unaffected at risk, and 5 spouses).
RESULTS: Assuming 90% penetrance, we found suggestive evidence of linkage to 
chromosome 19, with a lod score of 2.49 for D19S571. More detailed mapping in 
this region provided a maximum 2-point lod score of 2.57 at theta = 0 for 
D19S254 and a maximum multipoint lod score of 4.72 at D19S926. By haplotype 
construction a 22-cM critical region from D19S601 to the q telomere was defined.
CONCLUSIONS: We have mapped a gene for an autosomal dominant SCA to chromosome 
19q13.4-qter in one family. The critical region overlaps with the locus for 
SCA14, a disease described in a single Japanese family and characterized by 
axial myoclonus. Myoclonus was not seen in the family we studied, but it remains 
possible that the 2 disorders are allelic variants.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.59.8.1291
PMID: 12164726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Aug;50(8):1381-8. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50359.x.

Cost-effectiveness of preventive occupational therapy for independent-living 
older adults.

Hay J(1), LaBree L, Luo R, Clark F, Carlson M, Mandel D, Zemke R, Jackson J, 
Azen SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, School of Pharmacy, Keck 
School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 90033, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a 9-month preventive 
occupational therapy (OT) program in the Well-Elderly Study: a randomized trial 
in independent-living older adults that found significant health, function, and 
quality of life benefits attributable to preventive OT.
DESIGN: A randomized trial.
SETTING: Two government-subsidized apartment complexes.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred sixty-three culturally diverse volunteers aged 60 and 
older.
INTERVENTION: An OT group, a social activity group (active control), and a 
nontreatment group (passive control).
MEASUREMENTS: Use of healthcare services was determined by telephone interview 
during and after the treatment phase. A conversion algorithm was applied to the 
RAND 36-item Short Form Health Survey to derive a preference-based 
health-related quality of life index, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for preventive OT relative to the 
combined control group.
RESULTS: Costs for the 9-month OT program averaged $548 per subject. 
Postintervention healthcare costs were lower for the OT group ($967) than for 
the active control group ($1,726), the passive control group ($3,334), or a 
combination of the control groups ($2,593). The quality of life index showed a 
4.5% QALY differential (OT vs combined control), P <.001. The cost per QALY 
estimates for the OT group was $10,666 (95% confidence interval = 
$6,747-$25,430). For the passive and active control groups, the corresponding 
costs per QALY were $13,784 and $7,820, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In this study, preventive OT demonstrated cost-effectiveness in 
conjunction with a trend toward decreased medical expenditures.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50359.x
PMID: 12164994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Klin Padiatr. 2002 Jul-Aug;214(4):173-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-33183.

Therapy of advanced ovarian juvenile granulosa cell tumors.

Schneider DT(1), Calaminus G, Wessalowski R, Pathmanathan R, Harms D, Göbel U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Children's Hospital, 
Heinrich-Heine-University, Medical Center, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
dominik.schneider@uni-duesseldorf.de

BACKGROUND: Gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors are rare tumors that develop from 
the gonadal non-germ cell component such as granulosa, Sertoli or Leydig cells. 
Among these, juvenile granulosa cell tumors (JGCT) constitute the largest 
subgroup of ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors during childhood and adolescence. In 
local disease (FIGO stage I), the beneficial role of tumor-ovarectomy is well 
established. In contrast, life expectancy in patients with advanced JGCT (FIGO 
stage >/= II) is short even after complete tumor resection. The current 
literature provides only limited and inconclusive data regarding the value of 
adjuvant chemotherapy in such patients with advanced disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Therefore, we analyzed the patients with FIGO stage >/= II 
JGCT who were prospectively documented as follow-up patients of the German MAKEI 
trials for non-testicular germ cell tumors and received the recommended 
cisplatin-based chemotherapy in an adjuvant setting. From 1988 until 2000, 7 
patients (age, 4;2 - 18;11 years, median 14;8 years) were registered. Three 
patients were stage IIc, one stage IIIa, and three stage IIIc. 5 patients 
underwent laparatomy with adnectomy, which was complete in only two patients. 
Two patients received laparoscopic tumor resection, which was incomplete in 
both. All patients received 4 or 6 cycles of adjuvant cisplatin-based 
three-agent chemotherapy in analogy to the current therapeutic concept applied 
in malignant germ cell tumors. One patient with a large tumor and multiple 
peritoneal metastases additionally received 40 Gy abdominal irradiation.
RESULTS: All patients achieved complete clinical remission after initial surgery 
and adjuvant chemotherapy. 4 out of 7 patients are currently remaining in first 
continuous complete remission after 15 to 111 months follow-up. One patient 
developed a metachronous tumor of the contralateral ovary after 126 months 
follow-up and is still alive but currently in therapy of another recurrence. 
Another patient suffered a tumor recurrence after 12 months but achieved a 
second complete remission with cisplatin chemotherapy after a follow-up of 
currently 4 months. One patient achieved complete clinical remission but 
suffered a diffuse peritoneal tumor recurrence with massive ascites and finally 
died as a result of tumor progression. In summary, at the time of this report 6 
of 7 patients are alive after a median of 47 (15 - 138) months.
CONCLUSION: This analysis clearly demonstrates that advanced JGCT can be 
successfully treated with surgery followed by adjuvant cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy. Therefore, this study reveals encouraging therapeutic perspectives 
in these otherwise fatal tumors that merit further investigation in a 
prospective cooperative trial.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-33183
PMID: 12165898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. G Ital Nefrol. 2002 Jan-Feb;19(1):49-54.

[Living-donor kidney transplantation in the cyclosporine era].

[Article in Italian]

Campise M(1), Tarantino A, Berardinelli L, Finazzi S, Montagnino G, Rossini G, 
Scalamogna M, Cesana B, Ponticelli C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Nefrourologia e Trapianto Renale, Italy. 
campise@policlinico.mi.it

BACKGROUND: Renal transplantation is the best possibile form of treatment for 
chronic renal failure. It offers the patient a longer life expectancy when 
compared to dialysis. Aim of the study was to evaluate our results with live 
donor transplantation and the variables that influenced the long-term patient 
and graft survival.
METHODS: 190 patients received a live donor kidney transplantation in our 
Hospital between 1984 and 2000. Thirty-eight of them received a graft from an 
HLA identical donor, 130 from an HLA haploidentical donor, 22 from a living 
unrelated donor (spouse). Fourteen patients underwent a pre-emptive 
transplantation. Aim of the study was to evaluate which variables could 
influence the long-term patient and graft survival.
RESULTS: The median follow-up of recipients was 69.5 months. The 10-year patient 
and graft survival were 94.7% and 73.4% respectively. Graft half-life was 29.6 
years. Six patients died. Twelve patients lost their graft because of vascular 
thrombosis and five patients because of rejection within the first six months. 
After the first year, 11 patients lost their graft because of chronic rejection 
and 4 after recurrence of the original disease. One hundred and forty-four 
patients are still under observation, and at the last examination their mean 
plasma creatinine was 2.0+/-1.1 mg/dl. At univariate statistical analysis the 
absence of locus DR incompatibility was associated with a trend toward a better 
long-term survival of both patient and graft (P=0.05), while less than one year 
of dialysis showed a significantly better survival rate (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Living-donor transplantation offers an excellent long-term patient 
and graft survival.

PMID: 12165946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Trop Med Int Health. 2002 Aug;7(8):657-77. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.2002.00916.x.

The economic payoffs of integrated malaria control in the Zambian copperbelt 
between 1930 and 1950.

Utzinger J(1), Tozan Y, Doumani F, Singer BH.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, 
USA. utzinger@princeton.edu

It has long been suggested that malaria is delaying the economic development of 
countries that are most severely affected by the disease. Several studies have 
documented the economic consequences of malaria at the household level, 
primarily in communities engaged in subsistence farming. A missing element is 
the appraisal of the economic impact of malaria on the industrial and service 
sectors that will probably become the backbone of many developing economies. We 
estimate the economic effects of integrated malaria control implemented during 
the colonial period and sustained for 20 years in four copper mining communities 
of the former Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia). Integrated malaria control was 
characterized by strong emphasis on environmental management, while part of the 
mining communities also benefited from rapid diagnosis and treatment and the use 
of bednets. The programmes were highly successful as an estimated 14,122 deaths, 
517,284 malaria attacks and 942,347 work shift losses were averted. Overall, 
127,226 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) were averted per 3-year 
incremental period. The cumulative costs of malaria control interventions were 
11,169,472 US dollars (in 1995 US dollars). Because the control programmes were 
so effective, the mining companies attracted a large reservoir of migrant 
labourers and sustained healthy work forces. The programmes averted an estimated 
796,622 US dollars in direct treatment costs and 5,678,745 US dollars in 
indirect costs as a result of reduced work absenteeism. Within a few years of 
programme initiation, Northern Rhodesia became the leading copper producer in 
Africa, and mining generated the dominant share of national income. Copper 
production and revenues, which increased dramatically during malaria control 
interventions, amounted to the equivalent of 7.1 billion US dollars (in 1995 US 
dollars). Integrated malaria control in copper mining communities was a sound 
investment. It had payoff for public and occupational health, generally, and 
without it copper extraction and social and economic development would have been 
impossible.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.2002.00916.x
PMID: 12167093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Hong Kong Med J. 2002 Aug;8(4):262-8.

Viability of the health protection account in Hong Kong.

Law CK(1), Yip PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science; Centre of Asian Studies; 
Medical and Health Research Network, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong 
Kong.

Comment in
    Hong Kong Med J. 2002 Oct;8(5):384; author reply 384-5.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the viability of the Health Protection Account proposed 
by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Government.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: The Hospital Authority of Hong Kong.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were obtained from hospital and specialist 
out-patient clinic admissions. The expected health cost for each patient from 
the age of 65 years to the average age of life expectancy (83 years) was 
estimated, as was the contribution to these health costs from the Health 
Protection Account.
RESULTS: If individuals contribute 1% of their salary to the Health Protection 
Account from age 40 to 65 years, the Account can only cover 4% of the actual 
health costs.
CONCLUSION: The Health Protection Account, as proposed, does not ease the 
financial burden of increasing health care costs in the elderly. Increasing the 
contribution rate or reducing the age at which contributions to the scheme are 
started are possible viable options for making the scheme sustainable. However, 
the current economic situation is such that the public would not favour either 
of these alternatives. It is envisaged that the Government will need to continue 
to finance the health care of its citizens by taxation. A gradual increase in 
user charges might be the only future option for controlling government health 
expenditure.

PMID: 12167730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J Contemp Dent Pract. 2000 Feb 15;1(2):1-27.

The role of the dental professional in diabetes care.

Varon F(1), Mack-Shipman L.

Author information:
(1)fvaron@home.com

Diabetes mellitus, specifically type 2 diabetes, is one of the major public 
health issues facing the world in the 21st Century. This article summarizes the 
rapid changes in the management of diabetes and its impact on dental practice. 
The reader will find many "hyperlinks" to other diabetes information on the 
Internet throughout this article as these links provide greater detail. The 
incidence of type 1 diabetes has increased slowly, while that of type 2 diabetes 
has increased explosively. The worldwide incidence of type 2 is likely to double 
by the year 2010 due in large part to changing lifestyles, longer life 
expectancy, and rapid growth of ethnic and racial populations that have high 
prevalence rates. There are 15.7 million people or 5.9% of the population in the 
United States who have diabetes. While an estimated 10.3 million have been 
diagnosed, it is unfortunate that 5.4 million people are not aware they have the 
disease. Diabetic dental patient management strategies are presented. Dental 
professionals are urged to remain current in their knowledge of this disease in 
order to provide proper care for their patients.

PMID: 12167887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Perinatol. 2002 Sep;22(6):472-4. doi: 10.1038/sj.jp.7210776.

Continuous blood gas monitoring using an in-dwelling optode method: comparison 
to intermittent arterial blood gas sampling in ECMO patients.

Rais-Bahrami K(1), Rivera O, Mikesell GT, Short BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Children's National Medical Center and The George 
Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC 20010, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The ability to measure postmembrane arterial blood gases is 
essential in the management of critically ill neonates treated with 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). A new technology using, the 
Paratrend 7 system (Diametrics Medical, High Wycombe,UK) allows for continuous 
measurement of pH, PCO(2) and PO(2), and calculates oxygen saturation, 
bicarbonate, and base excess.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate and compare the results of continuous blood gas 
measurement using the Paratrend 7 system with a standard system of blood gas 
analysis in our intensive care unit.
DESIGN: Prospective, controlled, interventional study.
SETTING: The neonatal intensive care unit of a tertiary referral center.
PATIENTS: Neonates who required extracorporeal life support and were expected to 
have frequent postmembrane arterial blood sampling during the testing period.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHOD: To enable Paratrend 7 sensor access to the ECMO 
circuit, the postmembrane access port extension set that is routinely used for 
blood drawn for blood gas analysis was used. The study began with the insertion 
of the Paratrend 7 sensor. Subjects remained on the study until the ECMO was 
discontinued and/or frequent blood gases were no longer needed. The blood gas 
results from the Paratrend 7 system were not used in clinical management of the 
patient. BLOOD GAS MEASUREMENT: During the study period, with each blood sample 
drawn for laboratory analysis, a printout from the Paratrend 7 monitor was 
recorded for comparison.
RESULTS: A total of 242 pairs of blood gas samples were collected from 10 
neonates. The mean bias/precision for pH was -0.02/0.04; for PO(2) 68.35/93.44 
mm Hg; and for PCO(2) 1.75/4.23 mm Hg. The correlation (r value) between the 
sensor reading and the blood gases were 0.89 for pH, 0.96 for PO(2), and 0.73 
for PCO(2) (Table 1).
CONCLUSION: The blood gases compared in the two methods had a strong correlation 
for pH, PCO(2) and PO(2). Results of this study indicate that this technology 
provides an accurate means of monitoring continuous blood gas parameters in 
neonatal ECMO patients. Use of the Paratrend 7 should allow reduced health-care 
provider exposure to blood and decreased patient iatrogenic blood loss.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jp.7210776
PMID: 12168125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2002 Jun;59(6):903-8. doi: 10.1007/s00018-002-8477-8.

Regulation of longevity and stress resistance: a molecular strategy conserved 
from yeast to humans?

Longo VD(1), Fabrizio P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biogerontology, Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles 90089-0191, USA. vlongo@usc.edu

Recent studies implicate similar proteins in the regulation of longevity in 
organisms ranging from yeast to mice. Studies in yeast and worms suggest that 
inactivation of glucose or insulin/insulin-like growth factor-l (IGF-1) 
signaling pathways extends longevity by causing a shift from a reproductive 
phase to a non-reproductive maintenance phase involving the expression of many 
genes. These stress resistance pathways appear to have evolved to induce 
maintenance systems and promote longevity during periods of starvation. In 
yeast, mutations that decrease the activity of glucose signaling pathways extend 
longevity by activating stress resistance transcription factors that regulate 
the expression of genes involved in antioxidant and heat protection, glycogen 
storage, protein degradation, DNA repair, and metabolism. A remarkably similar 
set of proteins regulated by growth factors that control glucose metabolism is 
implicated in life span extension in worms, and possibly in flies and mice. 
Studies in worms and flies point to secondary hormones as mediators of the 
effect of insulin/ IGF-1 signaling on longevity, whereas studies in yeast and 
mammalian cells indicate that glucose or insulin/ IGF-1 may decrease longevity 
by directly down-regulating stress resistance genes. In yeast, longevity 
mutations postpone superoxide toxicity and mitochondrial damage. However, the 
small life span extension caused by the overexpression of superoxide dismutases 
and catalase in yeast and flies indicates that increased antioxidant protection 
alone cannot be responsible for the major life span extension caused by signal 
transduction mutations. Although we are only beginning to understand the 
molecular mechanisms that mediate life span extension, the similarities between 
longevity regulatory pathways in organisms ranging from yeast to mice suggest 
that insulin/ IGF-1 signaling pathways may also regulate cell damage and 
longevity in humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-002-8477-8
PMID: 12169020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2002 Sep;2(5):392-9. doi:
10.1007/s11910-002-0064-8.

Prevention of Alzheimer's disease: where we stand.

Sano M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia 
University, 630 W. 168th Street, Box 16, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
ms17@columbia.edu

Alzheimer's disease has been recognized as a major public health issue that will 
grow in prominence as life expectancy increases and as the shape of population 
demographics shifts toward expansion in the older age ranges with contraction in 
younger ages. The magnitude of the problem can be expressed in incidence, 
prevalence economics, and quality of life. Great strides have been made in 
understanding and treating this disease, but current clinical management is far 
from satisfactory and progression seems inevitable once the disease is 
diagnosed. Such forces in any disease encourage intervention strategies to move 
from treatment to prevention. However, this vision can only be met with 
reasonable success when pathology is understood and there is evidence that 
manipulation of that pathology leads to clinical benefit. This is the challenge 
that lies ahead to achieve the goal of prevention of Alzheimer's disease. This 
review begins by examining the progress that has been made in this disease. 
Current efforts to develop prevention strategies are described and possible 
agents for future evaluation are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-002-0064-8
PMID: 12169218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Am J Surg. 2002 Aug;184(2):103-13. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(02)00914-5.

Obesity and its surgical management.

Livingston EH(1).

Author information:
(1)VAMC Greater Los Angeles Health Care System, UCLA Bariatric Surgery Program, 
Box 95-6904, UCLA School of Medicine, 90095-6904, USA. 
elivingston@mednet.ucla.edu

Obesity is increasing in epidemic proportions world-wide. Even mild degrees of 
obesity have adverse health effects and are associated with diminished 
longevity. For this reason aggressive dietary intervention is recommended. 
Patients with body mass indices exceeding 40 have medically significant obesity 
in which the risk of serious health consequences is substantial, with 
concomitant significant reductions in life expectancy. For these patients, 
sustained weight loss rarely occurs with dietary intervention. For the 
appropriately selected patients, surgery is beneficial. Various operations have 
been proposed for the treatment of obesity, many of which proved to have serious 
complications precluding their efficacy. A National Institutes of Health 
Consensus Panel reviewed the indications and types of operations, concluding 
that the banded gastroplasty and gastric bypass were acceptable operations for 
treating seriously obese patients. Surgical treatment is associated with 
