sustained weight loss for seriously obese patients who uniformly fail 
nonsurgical treatment. Following weight loss there is a high cure rate for 
diabetes and sleep apnea, with significant improvement in other complications of 
obesity such as hypertension and osteoarthritis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(02)00914-5
PMID: 12169352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. J Glaucoma. 2002 Aug;11(4):347-53. doi: 10.1097/00061198-200208000-00012.

Comparison of the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve, the Krupin Eye Valve with Disk, and the 
double-plate Molteno implant.

Taglia DP(1), Perkins TW, Gangnon R, Heatley GA, Kaufman PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wisconsin 53705-3631, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of the nonvalved double-plate Molteno implant 
with two valved implants, the Krupin Eye Valve with Disc and the Ahmed Glaucoma 
Valve, in the treatment of recalcitrant glaucoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The authors performed a nonrandomized retrospective review 
of patients who received the Molteno implant (n = 27), Krupin Eye Valve with 
Disc (n = 13), or Ahmed Glaucoma Valve (n = 13), with adjunctive mitomycin C.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis showed that the Molteno implant 
patients were more likely to maintain an intraocular pressure between 5 and 15 
mm Hg than Ahmed Glaucoma Valve patients (P = 0.03). Success rates at 1 year 
were 80% (95% CI, 66-97%) for the Molteno implant, 39% (19-77%) for the Krupin 
Eye Valve with Disc, and 35% (15-82%) for the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve. However, 
Ahmed Glaucoma Valve patients were less likely to experience complications 
requiring reoperation or loss of two or more lines of visual acuity (P < 0.01) 
than Molteno implant or Krupin Eye Valve with Disc patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This nonrandomized study suggests that the Molteno implant with 
mitomycin C is more likely to result in intraocular pressures in the lower teens 
than the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve with mitomycin C. The findings suggest that the 
Ahmed implant is less likely to create problems leading to reoperations or 
visual acuity loss than the Molteno or Krupin implants.

DOI: 10.1097/00061198-200208000-00012
PMID: 12169973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Melanoma Res. 2002 Aug;12(4):325-34. doi: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00004.

VEGF-165 serum levels and tyrosinase expression in melanoma patients: 
correlation with the clinical course.

Osella-Abate S(1), Quaglino P, Savoia P, Leporati C, Comessatti A, Bernengo MG.

Author information:
(1)Section of Dermatology, Department of Clinical and Surgical Specialities, 
University of Turin, Italy.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is known to play a crucial role in the 
growth and metastatization of solid tumours. In cancer patients, high VEGF serum 
levels correlate with tumour status and prognosis, but to date few data have 
been reported concerning VEGF in melanoma patients. In the present study, 
immunoenzymatic and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) 
techniques were used to detect VEGF-165 serum levels and the presence of 
tyrosinase mRNA, respectively, in the peripheral blood of a cohort of 155 
melanoma patients at different clinical stages (30 stage I, 40 stage II, 40 
stage III and 45 stage IV; AJCC classification). Data were compared with both 
the extent of the disease and the clinical course. The aim was to assess the 
relationship between VEGF serum levels, the presence of detectable circulating 
melanoma cells and melanoma progression. A significant increase in VEGF serum 
levels was found in melanoma patients, in particular in those with metastatic 
disease; a higher incidence of relapses was found in stage I-III disease-free 
patients who showed an increase in VEGF during follow-up. VEGF serum levels were 
significantly higher in patients with detectable circulating melanoma cells than 
in those with negative tyrosinase mRNA expression. The finding of both an 
increase in VEGF and the presence of detectable melanoma cells during follow-up 
was associated with a relapse rate of 81%. The relapse rate was significantly 
lower when either of the two parameters were present separately. Multivariate 
analysis of both overall survival and time-to-progression selected baseline 
tyrosinase expression in peripheral blood but not VEGF serum levels as an 
independent prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00004
PMID: 12170181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Melanoma Res. 2002 Aug;12(4):357-64. doi: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00008.

Common prognostic factors for stage III melanoma patients and for stage I and II 
melanoma patients with recurrence to their regional lymph nodes.

Konstadoulakis MM(1), Messaris E, Zografos G, Ricaniadis N, Androulakis G, 
Karakousis C.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Propaedeutic Surgery, Laboratory of Surgical Research, 
University of Athens, Kalvou 24, Old Psyhico, 154 52, Athens, Greece.

This study was undertaken in order to identify the prognostic factors for stage 
III malignant melanoma patients. In addition we compared the survival data of 
these patients with data from patients presenting with stage I and II disease 
who subsequently developed a regional nodal recurrence, in order to identify 
common prognostic factors and to compare the biological behaviour of the two 
groups. We retrospectively examined two groups of patients. The first consisted 
of 116 patients with stage III malignant melanoma and the second consisted of 57 
patients with stage I and II malignant melanoma that were found to have regional 
lymph node metastases diagnosed at least 6 months after surgical treatment of 
their primary lesion. The age of the patients, the number of disease-involved 
lymph nodes, the site of the primary lesion and the presence or not of palpable 
lymph nodes proved to be significant prognostic factors of the first group. We 
also analysed the survival data of the second group and compared it with data 
from the stage III patients. The 5 year survival starting from the time after 
diagnosis of the primary lesion was 47.37% compared with 25.86% in stage III 
patients; however, this difference was not statistically significant. Patients 
who present with stage III malignant melanoma seem to have a more aggressive 
phenotype than stage I and II malignant melanoma patients who present with 
recurrent disease in their regional lymph nodes. Disease behaviour is dictated 
by the number of disease-involved lymph nodes, the site of the primary lesion 
and the type of surgical procedure performed (elective or therapeutic lymph node 
dissection).

DOI: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00008
PMID: 12170185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Melanoma Res. 2002 Aug;12(4):381-7. doi: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00011.

Clinical results using biochemotherapy as a standard of care in advanced 
melanoma.

Chapman PB(1), Panageas KS, Williams L, Wolchok JD, Livingston PO, Quinn C, Hwu 
WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Ave, NY 10021, USA. chapmanp@mskcc.org

Phase II studies of biochemotherapy in metastatic melanoma patients have 
reported response rates of 47-63%. Even though these were highly selected 
patients, we were intrigued by these promising response rates and began using 
this regimen as standard care in advanced melanoma patients. We report the 
results of the first 65 patients with AJCC stage IV melanoma (n = 57) or 
unresectable stage III (n = 8) melanoma treated with concurrent biochemotherapy 
at Memorial Hospital. Treatment was repeated every 3 weeks and patients were 
assessed for antitumour effects after every other cycle. The overall response 
rate among the 63 patients evaluable for response was 29% (three complete 
responses, 15 partial responses). The median duration of responses was 3.7 
months. The response rate among previously treated and previously untreated 
patients was 6% and 38%, respectively. The estimated median survival for all 
patients was 8.5 months; the median survival for previously untreated patients 
was 9.2 months. Tumour response did not correlate with survival. Our experience, 
which is a retrospective evaluation, does not provide support for the routine 
use of biochemotherapy as standard treatment. The low response rate among 
previously treated patients indicates that biochemotherapy is not useful as 
second-line therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/00008390-200208000-00011
PMID: 12170188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Aug;36(2):245-9; discussion 249. doi:
10.1067/mva.2002.125026.

Relationship of hemodialysis access to finger gangrene in patients with 
end-stage renal disease.

Yeager RA(1), Moneta GL, Edwards JM, Landry GJ, Taylor LM Jr, McConnell DB, 
Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Oregon Health Sciences 
University, Portland, OR, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We report a comprehensive review of our patients on hemodialysis with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) with finger gangrene to determine etiology, 
natural history, and prognosis of this condition.
METHODS: Patients with ESRD with finger gangrene were identified from our 
computerized vascular registry. Presence of an ipsilateral arteriovenous fistula 
was determined, and patients were compared with a group of patients with ESRD 
without finger gangrene. Management consisted of arteriography, selective 
arteriovenous fistula management, and finger amputation. A multivariate analysis 
to determine risk factors associated with finger gangrene was performed. Repeat 
finger amputation and survival rates were determined with life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients (mean age at start of dialysis, 53 years) with 
finger gangrene were identified, with 48% (n = 11) having a functional 
ipsilateral arteriovenous fistula. Arteriography was consistent with diffuse 
atherosclerosis involving the radial, ulnar, palmar, and digital arteries 
precluding attempts at distal arterial bypass. Repeat finger amputations were 
necessitated in 52% of patients (n = 12), and bilateral finger gangrene 
developed in 61% of patients (n = 14). Starting dialysis at age less than 55 
years (P =.0004), diabetes (P =.001), coronary artery disease (P =.0212), and 
lower extremity arterial occlusive disease (P <.0001) were significantly 
associated with finger gangrene.
CONCLUSION: The young diabetic patient with diffuse vascular disease and ESRD is 
at high risk for the development of finger gangrene on chronic hemodialysis. 
Finger gangrene is the result of distal atherosclerosis and is not primarily 
related to dialysis access.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.125026
PMID: 12170204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Aug;36(2):250-5; discussion 256. doi:
10.1067/mva.2002.125025.

Distal revascularization-interval ligation: a durable and effective treatment 
for ischemic steal syndrome after hemodialysis access.

Knox RC(1), Berman SS, Hughes JD, Gentile AT, Mills JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, The University of Arizona Health Sciences 
Center, Tucson, AZ 85724, USA.

PURPOSE: The treatment of hemodialysis access-induced ischemic steal syndrome is 
challenging. Despite promising early results with the distal 
revascularization-interval ligation (DRIL) procedure, the operation has not been 
widely adopted because of concerns about its complexity and long-term efficacy. 
The purpose of this report was to determine the efficacy and durability of the 
DRIL procedure in relieving hand ischemia and in maintaining access patency in 
the setting of hemodialysis access-induced ischemia.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of all patients who underwent the 
DRIL procedure for access-induced ischemia. Demographic information was 
compiled, as were data regarding access and bypass patency, limb salvage, and 
patient survival. Arteriovenous access and brachial artery bypass patency rates 
were determined with life-table methods.
RESULTS: Between 1995 and 2001, we performed 55 DRIL procedures in 52 patients 
(35 women and 17 men; mean age, 60.8 years; range, 30 to 86 years). The 
indications for surgery were ischemic pain in 27 patients, tissue loss in 20 
patients, loss of neurologic function in four patients, and pain on hemodialysis 
in one patient. Most patients (92%) had diabetes. The mean interval from access 
placement to DRIL was 7.4 months (range, 1 to 84 months). The mean follow-up 
interval was 16 months (range, 1 to 67 months). The brachial artery bypass 
primary patency rate was 80% at 4 years, and the arteriovenous access primary 
patency rate was 83% at 1 year. Forty-seven of 52 patients (90%) had substantial 
or complete relief of ischemic hand symptoms, and 15 of 20 patients with digital 
ischemic lesions have healed completely.
CONCLUSION: DRIL is a durable and effective procedure that reliably accomplishes 
the twin goals in the treatment of angioaccess-induced ischemia: persistent 
relief of hand ischemia and continued access patency.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.125025
PMID: 12170205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Aug;36(2):325-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.125748.

Composite sequential arterial reconstruction for limb salvage.

Roddy SP(1), Darling RC 3rd, Ozsvath KJ, Kreienberg PB, Chang BB, Mathew TS, 
Paty PS, Mehta M, Shah DM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Vascular Health and Disease, Albany Medical College, Albany, NY 
12208, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Autogenous vein is the conduit of choice in patients presenting for 
infrainguinal arterial reconstruction. Venous conduit may be limited because of 
inadequacy or prior utilization. Our group and others use prosthetics to 
maximize limb salvage with moderate results. However, in cases where patients 
present with an isolated popliteal segment that may extend below the knee, we 
have performed prosthetic bypasses to this above-knee segment and then used a 
venous reconstruction from the native arterial circulation to a more distal 
outflow tract. In this report, we will analyze our results using this type of 
reconstruction in patients who present for limb salvage with no all-autogenous 
option.
METHOD: From 1992 to 2000, 27 patients presented for limb salvage with an 
isolated popliteal artery and inadequate vein for continuous bypass. There were 
106 patients in this period without an isolated popliteal segment or adequate 
vein who underwent prosthetic bypass with distal vein cuff or arteriovenous 
fistula. The vascular registry and patient charts were reviewed for indication, 
demographics, and type of composite reconstruction. Outcomes were calculated 
with use of life table methods and compared by log rank analysis.
RESULTS: Demographics revealed 16 (59%) men, 16 (59%) patients with diabetes, 
and 4 (15%) smokers with a mean age of 71 years (range, 51-87 years). The venous 
reconstructions had the inflow taken from the distal native popliteal artery in 
26 (above knee in 8 and below knee in 18) and the peroneal artery in one. The 
outflow involved the below-knee popliteal in one (4%), a tibial in 23 (85%), and 
the dorsalis pedis artery in 3 (11%). Morbidity included bleeding (4%), wound 
infection (4%), and limb loss (4%). Mortality occurred in one patient (4%), and 
no revisions were required in follow-up. Six late failures were identified, one 
of which resulted in amputation. Primary patency and limb salvage were 80% and 
88% at 1 year, respectively. For comparison, our results using prosthetic with 
vein cuff had a 1-year primary patency of 52% and limb salvage of 92% (P = NS), 
whereas prosthetic with an arteriovenous fistula was 73% and 84%, respectively 
(P = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Composite sequential reconstruction using an isolated popliteal 
segment as inflow for the distal reconstruction is an acceptable option in 
patients presenting for limb salvage reconstruction with limited venous conduit. 
This type of reconstruction, when available, may be a better option than pure 
prosthetic with or without a vein cuff or arteriovenous fistula.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.125748
PMID: 12170213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Semin Neurol. 2002 Mar;22(1):63-70. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-33049.

Cost-effective recognition and diagnosis of dementia.

Geldmacher DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) has the potential to become the most overwhelming 
public health concern of this century due to increasing life expectancy and 
growth in the aging population. As a result, primary care physicians and 
neurologists will be seeing a greater number of elderly patients in their 
practice and will subsequently be expected to both identify and initiate 
treatment in those individuals who may display signs of dementia and related 
neurologic conditions. There is good evidence that AD is underrecognized or 
undercoded in primary care settings. Underrecognition is an important problem in 
this population because early treatment and counseling have been shown to 
provide benefits to both patients and caregivers. As their patient population 
ages, physicians need to learn to recognize the early symptoms of AD and make a 
diagnosis in order to provide cost-effective therapies.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-33049
PMID: 12170394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2002 Jun;16(3):715-29. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(02)00024-2.

Prognosis in advanced cancer.

Maltoni M(1), Amadori D.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, Palliative Care Unit, Pierantoni Hospital, Via 
Forlanini, 34-47100 Forlì, Italy. segronco@ausl.fo.it

When considered with other parameters, prognostic factors of survival in far 
advanced cancer patients are necessary to enable the doctor, the patient, and 
his or her relative to choose the most suitable clinical management and care 
setting. Original studies and literature reviews, albeit with methodologic 
difficulties, have identified the most important prognostic factors as being: 
CPS, KPS, signs and symptoms relating to nutritional status (i.e., weight loss, 
anorexia, dysphagia, xerostomia), other symptoms (dyspnea, cognitive failure) 
and some simple biologic parameters (serum albumin level, number of white blood 
cells and lymphocyte ratio). Some authors have weighed the different impact of 
the most important prognostic factors and have integrated them into prognostic 
scores for clinical use. Despite the usefulness of these instruments, however, 
the communication of a poor prognosis is one of the most difficult moments to 
face in the relationship between doctor and patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(02)00024-2
PMID: 12170577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Int J Prosthodont. 2002 Jul-Aug;15(4):325-32.

Implant-retained prostheses for facial defects: an up to 14-year follow-up 
report on the survival rates of implants at UCLA.

Roumanas ED(1), Freymiller EG, Chang TL, Aghaloo T, Beumer J 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Biomaterials and Hospital Dentistry, Weintraub Center for Reconstructive 
Biotechnology, UCLA School of Dentistry, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, Los Angeles, 
California 90095-1668, USA. eroumana@ucla.edu

PURPOSE: An analysis of retrospective data was conducted to establish the 
survival rates of osseointegrated implants used to retain orbital, nasal, and 
auricular prostheses over a 14-year period and to recommend guidelines in the 
restorative treatment of such facial defects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Included in this study were all patients who received 
implant-retained prostheses for auricular, nasal, or orbital defects from 1987 
to 2001 in the Maxillofacial Clinics at the UCLA and City of Hope Medical 
Centers. Data were obtained from patient charts. Two methods were used to 
determine survival rates: (1) the percentage of the total exposed implants that 
survived was determined, and (2) life table analysis was used to calculate 
cumulative survival rates at different time intervals.
RESULTS: A total of 207 implants were placed in 72 patients, and 182 implants 
had been uncovered. During the study period, 35 implants failed to integrate, 
and the survival rate for all exposed implants was 80%. Auricular implants 
showed the highest survival rate (95%), and orbital implants showed the lowest 
survival rate (53%). The life table analysis demonstrated a cumulative 6-year 
survival rate of 92% for auricular implants and 87% for piriform/nasal implants. 
In contrast, the survival rate for orbital implants showed a steady downward 
trend and reached 59% at 66 months.
CONCLUSION: It is possible to achieve high survival rates of implants in the 
auricular and piriform/nasal sites through careful presurgical and radiographic 
planning. The less favorable long-term survival of implants in the orbital rim, 
especially at irradiated sites, requires further study.

PMID: 12170845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2002 May-Jun;(3):24-7.

[Medical and demographic problems of population health promotion in Siberia].

[Article in Russian]

Babenko AI.

PMID: 12170895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Ir Med J. 2002 Jun;95(6):177-80.

Cost analysis of primary total hip replacement.

O'Shea K(1), Bale E, Murray P.

Author information:
(1)Cappagh National Orthopaedic Hospital, Finglas, Dublin. keloshea@hotmail.com

Arthritis of the hip is a cause of significant morbidity to the sufferer, for 
which total hip replacement is firmly established as an effective treatment. In 
order to assess the cost utility and benefit of total hip replacement, we 
compared the costs incurred to the health benefit accrued as measured by 
improvement in pre to post operative Harris hip scores, WOMAC osteoarthritis 
indices and SF 36 scores. Our calculations suggested the average unit cost of a 
total hip replacement at Cappagh National Orthopaedic Hospital, in 1999, to be 
in the region of 6,500 pounds. Cost utility was calculated as cost per QALY. 
Cost benefit was expressed as cost per 10 point increments in Harris hip scores, 
WOMAC and SF 36 scores. We conclude that total hip replacement is a worthwhile 
and efficient investment of health resources.

PMID: 12171266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 2002 Jun;96(4):339-48. doi:
10.1179/000349802125001023.

Chloroquine for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in Guyana.

Baird JK(1), Tiwari T, Martin GJ, Tamminga CL, Prout TM, Tjaden J, Bravet PP, 
Rawlins S, Ferrel M, Carucci D, Hoffman SL.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit #2, American Embassy Jakarta, Fleet Post 
Office-Asia/Pacific 96520-8132, U.S.A. bairdjk@namru2.med.navy.mil

At a public hospital in Georgetown, Guyana, 44 patients seeking treatment for 
symptomatic, slide-confirmed malaria were given standard chloroquine (CQ) 
therapy and followed for 28 days. The patients apparently had pure infections 
with Plasmodium falciparum (14), P. vivax (13) or P. malariae (one), or mixed 
infections either of P. falciparum and P. vivax (17) or of P. falciparum, P. 
malariae and P. vivax (two). Each received supervised treatment with 10 mg CQ 
base/kg on each of days 0 and 1, and 5 mg/kg on day 2. On the day of enrollment 
(day 0), the patients complained of fever (100%), headache (100%), malaise 
(94%), myalgia (79%), nausea (67%), vertigo (49%) and vomiting (33%). Many (39%) 
were ill enough to confine themselves to bed. On day 4, fewer of the subjects 
complained of fever (15%), headache (15%), malaise (6%), myalgia (21%), nausea 
(6%), vertigo (24%) or vomiting (0%) despite the relatively high (>48%) risk of 
therapeutic failure. The cumulative incidence of parasitological failure against 
P. falciparum was 15% at day 4, 33% at day 7 and 48% at day 14. All of the P. 
vivax and P. malariae infections cleared before day 4 and none recurred by day 
7. Two infections with P. vivax recurred later (on day 14 or 28) but in the 
presence of less than adequate, whole-blood concentrations of CQ plus 
desethyl-chloroquine (i.e. <100 ng/ml). Taken together, the results indicate a 
high risk of therapeutic failure of CQ against P. falciparum but also indicate 
that resistance to CQ in P. vivax occurs infrequently in Guyana.

DOI: 10.1179/000349802125001023
PMID: 12171615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2002 Jul;7(3):129-30. doi:
10.1258/135581902760082274.

Unintended consequences of applying economic evaluation.

Oliver A.

DOI: 10.1258/135581902760082274
PMID: 12171741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2002 Aug;87(4-5):381-7. doi: 10.1007/s00421-002-0657-6.
Epub  2002 Jul 3.

Effect of series elasticity on isokinetic torque-angle relationship in humans.

Kawakami Y(1), Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, University of Tokyo, Komaba, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, 
Japan. kawakami@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The influence of muscle series elasticity on the relationship between torque and 
joint angle during dynamic contractions was studied. The torque-angle 
relationship during the maximal isokinetic knee extension was determined for six 
male subjects (25-45 years) at 0.52, 1.05, 1.57, 2.09, 2.62, 3.49 rad/s. The 
knee joint angle at which peak torque was observed showed a systematic shift to 
more extended positions, i.e., the quadriceps muscle-tendon unit length became 
shorter as the velocity increased [from 1.01 (0.12) rad (0.52 rad/s) to 0.75 
(0.14) rad (3.49 rad/s), mean (SD)]. The corresponding difference in 
muscle-tendon unit length between 0.52 and 3.49 rad/s, estimated from the angle 
shift at peak torque and the moment arm length change of the quadriceps muscles, 
was 9 (4) mm. The relationship between estimated changes in muscle-tendon unit 
length and muscle force of the vastus lateralis and intermedius (VLI) over the 
seven velocities (including isometric contraction, 0 rad/s) coincided with the 
load-elongation properties of the series elastic component of VLI, determined 
separately in vivo by ultrasonography when the same subjects performed a ramp 
isometric knee extension. The results suggest that the torque-angle relationship 
is affected by the interaction between contractile and elastic components, and 
that peak torque angle shift is attributable to the elongation of tendinous 
tissues as a function of force applied to them.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-002-0657-6
PMID: 12172877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2002 Aug;50(2):131-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-002-0469-8. Epub 2002 Jun 14.

STEALTH liposome-encapsulated cisplatin (SPI-77) versus carboplatin as adjuvant 
therapy for spontaneously arising osteosarcoma (OSA) in the dog: a randomized 
multicenter clinical trial.

Vail DM(1), Kurzman ID, Glawe PC, O'Brien MG, Chun R, Garrett LD, Obradovich JE, 
Fred RM 3rd, Khanna C, Colbern GT, Working PK.

Author information:
(1)The Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53706, USA. vaild@svm.vetmed.wisc.edu

PURPOSE: This trial was designed to compare the efficacy of adjuvant STEALH 
liposome-encapsulated cisplatin (SPI-77) to "standard-of-care" carboplatin 
therapy in dogs with osteosarcoma (OSA) in the context of a randomized study 
design.
METHODS: The study included 40 pet dogs with spontaneously arising OSA which 
were randomized to receive SPI-77 (350 mg/m(2) i.v. every 3 weeks for four 
treatments) or carboplatin (300 mg/m(2) i.v. every 3 weeks for four treatments) 
along with amputation of the affected limb. Median disease-free (DFS) and 
overall survival (OS) were compared using standard life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 693 days (range 321-730 days). Of 38 dogs 
eligible for follow-up, 25 were dead of their disease, 9 were alive and 
disease-free (8 receiving SPI-77, 1 receiving carboplatin; P=0.02), 2 were free 
of disease when they were lost to follow-up at 321 and 395 days, and 2 had died 
of an unrelated disease. The median DFS times for dogs treated with SPI-77 and 
carboplatin were 156 and 123 days, respectively ( P=0.19). The median OS times 
for dogs treated with SPI-77 and carboplatin were 333 and 207 days, respectively 
( P=0.18).
CONCLUSIONS: While STEALTH liposome encapsulation of cisplatin allowed the safe 
administration of five times the maximally tolerated dose of free cisplatin to 
dogs without concurrent hydration protocols, this did not translate into 
significantly prolonged DFS or OS. However, a larger proportion of dogs 
receiving SPI-77 enjoyed long-term DFS when compared with dogs receiving 
carboplatin.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-002-0469-8
PMID: 12172978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2002 Aug;50(2):160-2. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-002-0473-z. Epub 2002 Jul 5.

A phase II trial of oral temozolomide in patients with metastatic renal cell 
cancer.

Park DK(1), Ryan CW, Dolan ME, Vogelzang NJ, Stadler WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the activity of temozolomide, an oral imidazotetrazine 
alkylating agent that has exhibited broad antitumor activity in preclinical 
studies, in renal cell cancer (RCC) patients. METHODS. Metastatic RCC patients 
were treated with temozolomide, 200 mg/m(2) per day orally, and traditional 
radiologic response endpoints were assessed. O(6)-Alkylguanine-DNA 
alkyltransferase (AGT) activity was measured in four pretreatment biopsies.
RESULTS: Among 12 patients, there were no responses. High AGT activity was 
observed in all four biopsies analyzed.
CONCLUSIONS: Temozolomide is not active against RCC and this clinical 
observation may be due to high levels of AGT in this tumor.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-002-0473-z
PMID: 12172983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Horm Metab Res. 2002 Jun;34(6):279-87. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-33255.

A novel approach using transcomplementing adenoviral vectors for gene therapy of 
adrenocortical cancer.

Wolkersdörfer GW(1), Bornstein SR, Higginbotham JN, Hiroi N, Vaquero JJ, Green 
MV, Blaese RM, Aguilera G, Chrousos GP, Ramsey WJ.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and 
Human Development, Bethesda, Maryland USA.

Erratum in
    Horm Metab Res. 2002 Oct;34(10):604.

Current therapies for adrenocortical carcinomas do not improve the life 
expectancy of patients. In this study, we tested whether a gene-transfer therapy 
based upon a suicide gene/prodrug system would be effective in an animal model 
of the disease. We employed E4- and E1A/B-depleted, herpes simplex 
virus-thymidine kinase-expressing adenoviral mutants that transcomplement each 
other within tumor cells, hereby improving transgene delivery and efficacy by 
viral replication in situ. Transcomplementation of vectors increased the 
fraction of transduced of tumor cells. This increase was accompanied by greater 
tumor volume reduction compared to non-transcomplementing approaches. Survival 
time improved with non-replicating vectors plus GCV compared to controls. 
However, transcomplementation/replication of vectors led to a further 
significant increment in anti-tumor activity and survival time (p < 0.02). In 
treated animals, we observed a high number of apoptotic nuclei both adjacent to 
and distant from injection sites and sites of viral oncolysis. Ultrastructural 
analyses exhibited nuclear inclusion bodies characteristic of virus production 
in situ, and provided further evidence that this therapy induced apoptotic cell 
death within tumor cells. We conclude that the efficacy of suicide gene therapy 
is significantly amplified by viral replication and, in combination with GCV, 
significantly reduces tumor burden and increases survival time.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-33255
PMID: 12173067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 2002 Jun;22(3):135-41.

[Salvage surgery in squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity].

[Article in Italian]

De Zinis LO(1), Ghizzardi D, Casati E, Nicolai P, Antonelli AR.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Otorinolaringoiatrica, Università di Brescia. 
redaelli@master.cci.unibs.it

The objective of this work was to evaluate the results of salvage surgery in 
squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity. In the period 1983-1998, 127 
patients consecutively underwent surgical treatment. Of these, 80 cases had not 
been treated previously (Group I), while 47 patients had come under our 
observation after radiotherapy alone or other treatment had failed (Group II). 
Local recurrence was observed in 29 cases, local/regional in 10 cases, and 
exclusively regional in eight cases. In both groups, the surgical T-approach was 
prevalently transoral (55 cases in Group I and 24 in Group II). A 
transmandibular approach was taken in most of the remaining patients (22 cases 
in Group I and 16 in Group II). One hundred patients (65 in Group I and 35 in 
Group II) underwent laterocervical neck dissection. The neoplasms in group I 
were staged as follows: pT1, 29%; pT2, 37.5%; pT3, 12.5%; pT4, 21%. In group II, 
the neoplasms were stages as: pT0, 17%; pT1, 21%; pT2, 38%; pT3, 13%; pT4, 11% 
(Group II). The overall 5-year survival rate was 38% and the overall determinate 
5-year survival rate was 45%, distributed as follows in the two groups: 51% of 
the patients in Group I, 36% of the patients in Group II (p = 0.01). Restricting 
the analysis to Group II, the difference in the three year survival rate was 54% 
among the patients at stages I-II and 25% among the patients suffering from a 
recurrence at stages III-IV (p = 0.04). In patients whose recurrence was limited 
to the primary tumor, survival at 3 years was 49%; in those whose recurrence 
also had nodal involvement, survival was 27% (p = 0.05). Lastly, the 5-year 
survival rate was 45% in the patients whose recurrence had been diagnosed late 
and only 24% in the 24 patients whose recurrence had been diagnosed within a 
year of prior treatment (p = 0.09). In conclusion, the life expectancy of 
patients undergoing salvage surgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the oral 
cavity is significantly less with respect to patients undergoing first round 
treatment. This difference appears significant only in patients with a 
recurrence that was diagnosed at an advanced stage. In accordance with the 
previously published data, an early recurrence (within a year) and the presence 
of a recurrence in the neck are unfavorable prognostic factors.

PMID: 12173283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Appl Microbiol. 2002;93(3):363-73. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2672.2002.01701.x.

Microbial interaction in cooked cured meat products under vacuum or modified 
atmosphere at 4 degrees C.

Metaxopoulos J(1), Mataragas M, Drosinos EH.

Author information:
(1)Agricultural University of Athens, Department of Food Science and Technology, 
Laboratory of Food Quality Control and Hygiene, Athens, Greece.

AIMS: To investigate the antagonistic activity of two lactic acid strains 
against the spoilage microflora in cooked cured meat products, vacuum or 
modified atmosphere packed at 4 degrees C and to determine the inhibitory 
capacity of their bacteriocins.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Frankfurter-type sausages and sliced cooked cured pork 
shoulder were inoculated with Leuconostoc mesenteroides L124 and Lactobacillus 
curvatus L442 or with their bacteriocins. The microbial, physico-chemical (pH, 
L- and D-lactate, acetate and ammonia) and colour changes were studied. Results 
under vacuum packaging showed that in the uninoculated samples of the pork 
product the spoilage microflora grew but in the inoculated ones the spoilage 
microorganisms (e.g. Brochothrix thermosphacta and enterococci) reduced during 
the storage. This observation was more pronounced in the samples with the 
addition of bacteriocins. In the frankfurter-type sausages the spoilage 
microflora did not grow in the uninoculated and inoculated samples. In the 
modified atmosphere enriched in CO2 the population of spoilage microflora 
remained at low levels in both products, indicating that CO2 has an effect on 
the spoilage microorganisms' growth. In the pork product the concentrations of 
acetate and d-lactate increased while L-lactate decreased, but in the 
frankfurter-type sausages increase of acetate and D-lactate was not observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Lactic acid strains had an effect on the spoilage microflora growth 
but did not affect, negatively, the organoleptic properties of the products. 
These strains may be used as biopreservative cultures or their bacteriocins 
could be an important contribution to microbiological quality of meat products.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF STUDY: Establishment of biopreservation as a method 
for extension of shelf life of meat products.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2672.2002.01701.x
PMID: 12174033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Arch Esp Urol. 2002 Jun;55(5):503-8.

[Personal and histopathological factors as prognostic variables in upper 
urothelial tumors undergoing surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

García García F(1), Fontana Compiano LO, García Ligero J, Arcas Martínez-Salas 
I, Martínez F, Tomás Ros M, Rico Galiano JL, Sempere Gutiérrez A, Morga Egea JP, 
Canteras Jordana M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital General Universitario de Murcia, Murcia, 
España.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the influence of personal and histopathological factors as 
prognostic variables in the evolution of upper urothelial tumors submitted to 
radical surgery.
METHODS: Multifactorial retrospective study of a series of 61 patients submitted 
to radical surgery for upper urinary tract transitional cell tumors. Patient 
habits and histopathological factors are analyzed. The statistical significance 
of the different factors was analyzed using the Pearson chi-square test for the 
qualitative variables, with analysis of the residuals and Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves and statistical validation with the Mantel Cox test. The level of 
significance was p < 0.05.
RESULTS: A statistically significant correlation was found for tumor-related 
death and pathological stage, positive lymphadenectomy and positive 
lymphadenopathy on the CT (p < 0.05). The presence or absence of a history of 
smoking was not available for all patients and was therefore not evaluable. The 
most frequent reason for consultation was hematuria (39%). Tumor growth was 
mostly of the papillary type (79%), localization was mostly in the renal pelvis 
(30%) and the most frequent procedure was nephroureterectomy without endoscopic 
detachment (60%).
CONCLUSIONS: The pathological stage and a positive lymphadenectomy or the 
presence of positive lymphadenopathies on the CT were found to be prognostic 
factors in urothelial tumors of the upper urinary tract.

PMID: 12174416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Kyobu Geka. 2002 Jul;55(8 Suppl):675-8.

[Surgical treatment of Marfan syndrome; analysis of the patients required 
multiple surgical interventions].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamazaki F(1), Shimamoto M, Fujita S, Nakai M, Aoyama A, Chen F, Nakata T, 
Yamada T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Shizuoka City Hospital, Shizuoka, 
Japan.

Without treatment, the life expectancy of patients with Marfan syndrome is 
reduced by the associated cardiovascular abnormalities. In this study, we 
reviewed our experience of the patients with Marfan syndrome who required 
multiple surgical interventions to identify the optimal treatment for these 
patients. Between January 1986 and December 2000, 44 patients with Marfan 
syndrome were operated on at Shizuoka City Hospital (SCH). Among them, 10 
patients (22.7%) underwent multiple surgical interventions. There were 5 male 
and 5 female patients with a mean age of 40.6 +/- 16.1 years at the initial 
surgery. Only one patient was operated on at another hospital for his first, 
second, and third operations. His fourth operation was carried out at SCH. The 
remaining 9 patients underwent a total of 14 additional surgical procedures at 
SCH. Computed tomography (CT) scans were taken every 6 months postoperatively, 
and aortic diameter greater than 60 mm was considered as the indication for the 
additional surgery. There were no early death and one late death. The causes of 
additional surgery were enlargement of true aneurysm in 6, enlargement of 
residual dissection in 4, new dissection in 4, false aneurysm at the coronary 
anastomosis of Bentall procedure in 1. In 9 patients, both ascending and 
descending aorta were replaced. Among these 9 patients, only 3 patients 
underwent total arch replacement, and remaining 6 patients had their arch left 
in place with or without dissection. Our current strategy of the treatment of 
Marfan patients with acute type A dissection is total arch replacement with an 
elephant trunk at the initial emergent surgery.

PMID: 12174656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Paediatr Drugs. 2002;4(9):571-80. doi: 10.2165/00128072-200204090-00003.

Hepatitis C virus infection in children coinfected with HIV: epidemiology and 
management.

Resti M(1), Azzari C, Bortolotti F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. 
m.resti@meyer.it

Mothers with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and HIV coinfection are the major source of 
HCV/HIV coinfection in infancy and childhood. There is no known intervention 
capable of interrupting HCV spread from mother to child, while the majority of 
infant HIV infections occurring in the developed world can be prevented by 
antiretroviral prophylaxis in the mother and child, elective caesarean section, 
and formula-feeding. In the era preceding treatment of HIV infection with highly 
active antiretroviral therapy, HCV coinfection was of little concern because the 
short-term survival of patients with HIV infection prevented the slowly 
developing consequences of chronic hepatitis C. As the life expectancy of 
patients with HIV infection increased with therapy, HCV has emerged as a 
significant pathogen. Several lines of evidence in adult patients suggest that 
liver disease may be more severe in patients coinfected with HIV and that 
progression of HIV disease may be accelerated by HCV coinfection. Whether 
coinfected children may share these clinical patterns remains a matter of 
speculation. Chronic hepatitis C in otherwise healthy children is usually a mild 
disease; liver damage may be sustained and fibrosis may increase over the years, 
suggesting slow progression of the disease. Interferon-alpha has been the only 
drug used in the past decade to treat hepatitis C in children and adolescents, 
with average response rates of 20%. Preliminary results of treatment with 
interferon-alpha and ribavirin suggest that the efficacy would be greater with 
combined therapy. These treatment protocols have not yet been applied to 
children coinfected with HIV, but the increasing number of long-term survivors 
will probably prompt further investigation in the near future. At present, 
treating HIV disease and monitoring HCV infection and hepatotoxicity induced by 
antiretroviral drugs seem to be the more reasonable approach to HCV/HIV 
coinfection in childhood.

DOI: 10.2165/00128072-200204090-00003
PMID: 12175272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2002 Aug;13(4):381-9. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130406.x.

Biologic outcome of implant-supported restorations in the treatment of partial 
edentulism. part I: a longitudinal clinical evaluation.

Naert I(1), Koutsikakis G, Duyck J, Quirynen M, Jacobs R, van Steenberghe D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Oral Pathology and 
Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University Leuven, Belgium. 
Ignace.Naert@med.kuleuven.ac.be

The purpose of this study was to predict the outcome of implant restorations in 
the treatment of partial edentulism, taking into account implant interdependency 
and the effect of several confounding variables. Between December 1982 and June 
1998, 1956 Brånemark system implants (1212 and 744 in the maxilla and mandible, 
respectively, 846 distal to first premolars) were installed in 660 patients (248 
males) at the Department of Periodontology of the University Hospitals of the 
Catholic University of Leuven. Of the 810 restorations installed at the 
Department of Prosthetic Dentistry of the same hospital, 235 were single crowns, 
166 were supported by implants and teeth and 409 were free-standing fixed 
partial prostheses. An additional 87 restorations was placed in private dental 
offices and were not included. The patients were followed from implant 
installation until June 1999. The estimated cumulative survival rates were 91.4% 
for all implants and 95.8% for all restorations over a period of 16 years. 
Estimated cumulative survival rates from loading for implant-tooth connected and 
free-standing implants were, respectively, 93.6% and 97.2%. Neither jaw site nor 
implant position (anterior-posterior) had any significant effect on the outcome. 
Short implant length, high number of implants per patient, low number of 
implants per prosthesis, implants loaded by acrylic-veneered restorations and 
implants combined with bone grafting present a higher risk hazard for implant 
failure. The idea of not splinting the implants in a fixed partial prosthesis is 
promising but needs replication before accepting it.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.2002.130406.x
PMID: 12175375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Microbiology (Reading). 2002 Aug;148(Pt 8):2519-2529. doi: 
10.1099/00221287-148-8-2519.

Enteroinvasive Escherichia coli virulence-plasmid-carried apyrase (apy) and ospB 
genes are organized as a bicistronic operon and are subject to differential 
expression.

Santapaola D(1), Casalino M(2), Petrucca A(3), Presutti C(4), Zagaglia C(4), 
Berlutti F(4), Colonna B(4), Nicoletti M(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Sezione di Microbiologia, Università G. 
D'Annunzio, 66100 Chieti, Italy1.
(2)Dipartimento di Biologia, Università Roma Tre, 00146 Rome, Italy2.
(3)Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 00161 Rome, Italy3.
(4)Dipartimento di Genitica e Biologia Molecolare4, Dipartimento di Scienze di 
Sanità Pubblica, Sezione di Microbiologia5 and Dipartimento di Biologia 
Cellulare e dello Sviluppo, Sezione di Scienze Microbiologiche6, Università di 
Roma La Sapienza, 00185 Rome, Italy.

In Shigella flexneri and enteroinvasive Escherichia coli (EIEC) the expression 
of the virulence-plasmid(pINV)-carried potential pathogenesis-associated apy 
gene, which encodes apyrase (ATP diphosphohydrolase), is regulated by the same 
regulators that govern the expression of virulence genes. To understand the 
transcriptional organization of the apy gene, the authors sequenced an 8023 bp 
PstI fragment of the pINV of EIEC strain HN280, which encompasses apy as well as 
its adjacent genes. The PstI fragment displays 99% identity with the 
corresponding fragment of pWR100, the pINV of S. flexneri strain M90T, and 
contains four genes. One of these genes, ospB, encodes a secreted protein of 
unknown activity and is located immediately upstream of apy. Analyses of 
sequence, Northern hybridization, RT-PCR and primer extension data and 
transcriptional fusions indicated that ospB and apy are co-transcribed as a 2 kb 
bicistronic, temperature-regulated mRNA from an upstream promoter that precedes 
ospB. The 2 kb mRNA is post-transcriptionally processed in the intercistronic 
ospB-apy region, leading to the considerable accumulation of a more stable 1 kb 
apy-specific mRNA (half-life of 2.2+/-0.3 min, versus 27+/-4 s for the 2 kb 
transcript). Upon temperature induction, peak expression of the ospB-apy operon 
occurs when bacteria enter into the late phases of bacterial growth, where the 
apy-specific transcript was found to be much more prevalent if compared to the 
ospB-apy transcript.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-148-8-2519
PMID: 12177345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jul:1-8.

Tanzania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Tanzania's population was 21.7 million in the Mainland and 600,000 
in Zanzibar, with an annual growth rate of 3.2%. The infant mortality rate was 
110/1000 and life expectancy was 52 years. 85% of the labor force is engaged in 
agriculture, while the remaining 15% work in industry, commerce, or government. 
The gross domestic product (GDP) was estimated at US$4.1 billion in 1984, with 
an annual growth rate of 2.5% and a per capita income of $200. Tanzania is a 
single-party state with a strong central executive. The Government pursues a 
policy of socialism and self-reliance. Many manufacturing enterprises are state 
controlled. Although agriculture provides 1/3 of the GDP, the Government has 
focused on industrial development. Broad-based development plans stress 
providing food, shelter, drinking water, education, and health care at the 
village level. Government recognition of the domestic factors influencing 
allocation of scarce resources has led to an increasing emphasis on agriculture 
in macroeconomic policies.

PMID: 12177914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-10.

Bangladesh.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of Bangladesh was 104 million in 1986, with an annual growth 
rate of 2.6%. The country's infant mortality rate is 12.1%, and life expectancy 
stands at 54 years. The literacy rate is 29%. The work force of 34.1 million is 
distributed among agriculture (74%), industry (11%), and services (15%). The 
gross domestic product (GDP) is US$15.3 billion, with a real annual growth rate 
of 3.6% and a per capita GDP of $151. As one of the world's poorest and most 
densely populated countries, Bangladesh must struggle to produce domestically 
and import enough food to feed its rapidly increasing population. The country's 
transportation, communications, and power infrastructure is relatively poorly 
developed. Since 1971, an emphasis has been placed on developing new industrial 
capacity and rehabilitating the economy. The statist economic model, including 
nationalization of the key jute industry, had resulted in inefficiency and 
economic stagnation. At present, rapid population growth, inefficiency in the 
public sector, and restricted natural resources and capital continue to impede 
economic development. On the other hand, economic policies aimed at encouraging 
private enterprise and investment, denationalizing public industries, 
reinstating budgetary discipline, and mobilizing domestic resources are 
beginning to have an impact. Underemployment remains a serious problem, and 
there are growing concerns regarding the ability of the agricultural sector to 
absorb additional manpower. To reach the goal of 10% annual industrial growth 
for the 1986-89 period, the government is aggressively seeking foreign 
investment.

PMID: 12177915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 May:1-8.

Mongolia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of Mongolia stood at 1.9 million in 1987, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.6%. Life expectancy is 65.6 years, and the literacy rate is 
about 80%. This communist state is governed by the Mongolian People's 
Revolutionary Party. The gross industrial product was US$1.6 billion in 1985, 
with a per capita gross domestic product of $780 and an annual growth rate of 
7.6%. Close to 90% of Mongolia's land area is pasture or desert wasteland, and 
less than 1% is arable. 49% of the population lives in rural areas of the 
country. Nearly half of the population now lives in Ulaanbaatar and other urban 
centers. Although the Mongolian economy is heavily agricultural, rapid 
industrial development based on widespread mineral deposits has taken place. 
Live animals and animal products account for almost half of Mongolia's output 
and 90% of its exports. Most foreign trade is conducted with the Soviet Union 
and East European countries. The 8th 5-year National Economic and Social 
Development Plan calls for the further development of the technical base of the 
Mongolian economy and the country's further industrialization. The plan projects 
a 10-12% annual increase in gross animal husbandry products, greater 
mechanization of agriculture, and increased construction of grain elevators and 
irrigation systems.

PMID: 12177916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-4.

Paraguay.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, the population of Paraguay stood at 4 million, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.7%. The infant mortality rate was 64/1000 live births and life 
expectancy was 62 years. The literacy rate was 81%. Of the labor force of 1.2 
million, 44% were employed in the agricultural sector, 34% were in industry and 
commerce, 18% were in the services sector, and 4% were employed by the 
government. The gross national product (GNP) was US $3.31 billion in 1985, with 
an annual growth rate of 5% and a per capita GNP of $660. The inflation rate was 
