25.2% in 1985. Paraguay is a constitutional republic with a powerful executive 
branch. Since assuming power in 1954, President Alfredo Stroessner has been 
concerned with the re-establishment of internal order as a basis for economic 
development. The Colorado Party, the military, and the government bureaucracy 
are the pillars of the Stroessner regime. Although this regime has brought 
stability and economic growth, this has been achieved at considerable cost to 
political rights and individual liberties. Obstacles to development have 
included fluctuating prices for major export items, the long and expensive river 
or land routes that foreign trade must traverse, a small domestic market, and 
internal and external trade barriers. Despite these limitations, agricultural 
production has grown rapidly, especially cotton and soybeans for export. 
Paraguay has exceptional hydroelectric potential and is expected to become the 
world's largest exporter of hydroelectric energy within the next decade. The 
country's stable government, conservative fiscal policies, and laissezfaire 
approach to trade and investment have brought economic improvement to a broad 
segment of society. In addition, the government has attempted to ameliorate 
rural poverty with a land program.

PMID: 12177917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-6.

St. Lucia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of St Lucia was 123,000 in 1986, with an annual growth rate 
of 2%. The infant mortality rate stands at 22.2/1000 live births, and life 
expectancy is 70.3 years for males and 74.9 years for females. The literacy rate 
is 78%. St Lucia's labor force is allocated as follows: agriculture, 36.6%; 
industry and commerce, 20.1%; and services, 18.1%. The gross national product 
(GNP) was US$146 million in 1985, with an annual growth rate of 3% and a per 
capita GNP of $1071. St Lucia is a parliamentary democracy modeled on the 
British Westminster system. The island is divided into 16 parishes and 1 urban 
area (the capital, Castries). St Lucia is currently a politically stable 
country, although the high level of youth unemployment is a cause for concern. 
Ongoing stability may depend on the government's ability to provide services 
such as jobs and housing. The economy has evolved from a monocrop sugar 
plantation type to a diversified economy based on agriculture, industry, and 
tourism. Agriculture, dominated by the banana industry, is characterized by the 
participation of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. Industry 
is being encouraged through the provision of incentives such as tax rebates. The 
government is attempting to maintain a sound investment climate through a 
tripartite dialogue with the private sector and trade unions. Overall economic 
policy is predicated on the attraction of sound investments, by both local and 
foreign entities, to accelerate the rate of economic growth, solve the 
unemployment problem, and generate a solid balance-of-payments position.

PMID: 12177918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-8.

Angola.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Angola's population was estimated at 8.5 million in 1986, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.7%. Life expectancy is 42 years, and the infant mortality rate 
is 148/1000 live births. Only 30% of the population is literate. 75% of the work 
force is in the agricultural sector. Angola, a Marxist people's republic, is 
ruled by the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party. The 
gross domestic product was US$4.5 billion in 1985, with a real growth rate of 
0%. Angola's average population density is 6.9 persons/square kilometer, but 
over 70% of the population is concentrated in the west, central highlands, and 
north. 3 ethnic groups--Ovimbundu, Bakongo, and Kimbundu--comprise 3/4 of the 
population. Angola has been politically unstable country since 1976 as a result 
of political maneuvering within the ruling party, civil war, and incursions by 
South African forces operating from Namibia. The economy deteriorated severely 
as a result of the abrupt transition to independence in 1975. However, Angola is 
one of the richest countries in sub-Saharan Africa in terms of its petroleum 
potential, rich agricultural land, and valuable mineral resources. Angola has 
nationalized most of the economy, although some private sector activity has been 
allowed to continue. Angolan government has emphasized to the population the 
need for austerity and increased production.

PMID: 12177919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-8.

Czechoslovakia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, the population of Czechoslovakia stood at 15.5 million, with an 
annual growth rate of 0.28%. Life expectancy averages 70 years. The literacy 
rate is 99%. The communist state is divided into 2 semi-autonomous republics: 
Czech Socialist Republic (Bohemia, Moravia) and the Slovak Socialist Republic 
(Slovakia). Of the labor force of 7.5 million, 14% are engaged in agriculture, 
64% are employed in industry, construction, and commerce, and the remaining 22% 
are in the services and government sector. Czechoslovakia's gross national 
product (GNP) was US$128 billion in 1984, with an annual growth rate of 2.3% and 
a per capita income level of US$8300. The Communist Party controls almost all 
organized activity, including that of the government in all branches and at all 
levels. Czechoslovakia has a highly developed, industrialized economy that is 
tightly linked with the Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries. 
However, the economy is characterized by low growth, low technological 
sophistication, and structural imbalances caused by inappropriate investment 
decisions. The approach to these economic problems has been to continue to 
uphold central planning and controls. The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia 
cites its efforts to improve the material welfare of the population. There is 
virtually no unemployment, and women comprise 47% of the labor force. Workers 
receive ample fringe benefits and there is an extensive social security program. 
Although the standard of living is difficult to measure, it is one of the 
highest in the communist world.

PMID: 12177920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Nov:1-8.

Denmark.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986 Denmark had a population of 5.11 million and an annual growth rate 
of 0.07%. Education attendance was 100%, and the literacy rate was 99%. The 
infant mortality rate stood at 7.7/100, and life expectancy averaged 71.5 years 
for men and 77.5 years for women. Of the work force of 2.5 million, 7% were 
engaged in agriculture and fisheries, 46% worked in industry and commerce, 13% 
were in the services sector, and 31% were employed by the government. Denmark's 
gross domestic product (GDP) was US $57.9 billion in 1985, with an annual growth 
rate of 3.8% and a per capita income of $11,312. Denmark is a constitutional 
monarchy, and political life is orderly and democratic. The largest political 
party, the Social Democratic Party, is closely identified with the labor 
movement and has held power either alone or in coalition for most of the postwar 
period. In recent decades, the Danish economy has been characterized by 
industrial expansion and diversification, as well as continued dependence on 
foreign trade. Today, almost 60% of total merchandise exports stem from 
manufactured products and the agricultural share has dropped to 30%. Beginning 
in the 1960s, the public sector took on an increasing number of new employees. 
The number of persons employed in local and central government services, 
especially health and social sectors, increased from 368,000 in 1967 to 678,000 
in 1977. .

PMID: 12177921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Oct:1-8.

Ecuador.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, Ecuador's population stood at 9.6 million, with an annual growth 
rate of 2.8%. The infant mortality rate was 76.3/1000; life expectancy was 62 
years. Of the work force of 2.9 million, 34% were engaged in agriculture, 35% 
were in the service sector, 12% were employed in industry, 12% were in sales, 
and 7% were in other occupations. Ecuador's 16 legal political parties represent 
a variety of views, none of which predominates. The gross domestic product was 
US$12.1 billion in 1985, with a per capita income of $1299 and an inflation rate 
of 24%. The economy's impressive performance in 1984 and 1985 is largely 
attributable to the trade sector's surplus and improvements in the balance of 
payments. Rescheduling the external debt has been a government priority. An 
agreement has been signed with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to 
encourage new foreign investment and subsidies have been reduced and price 
control ceilings have been raised to reform the domestic economy. However, the 
economic outlook for 1986 remains uncertain because of sharply lower petroleum 
prices.

PMID: 12177922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-4.

Haiti.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The U.S. Department's background notes on Haiti briefly describe her 
geography, people, history, government, economy and foreign relations. Haiti 
comprises the western third of the Caribbean island Hispaniola, situated east of 
Cuba. There are 6 million people, growing at 1.9% annually, of African origin. 
Infant mortality is 124/1000; life expectancy 54 years. The country is 
undeveloped: 80% live in rural areas; per capita income is $379; literacy is 
estimated at 23%; most speak Creole, although Haiti is the only officially 
French speaking nation in the Western hemisphere. The land is hot and dry, 
largely becoming deforested and eroded. Haiti became independent in 1804 after a 
slave rebellion. Since then the government has been a succession of 
dictatorships, leading to constant political and economic disorder. The current 
transition government rules by decree. The economy is largely based on small 
subsistence farms. Coffee, cocoa, mangoes, essential oils and locally assembled 
manufactured goods are exported. Haiti benefits from foreign aid from several 
institutions and governments, including an active USAID program that fosters 
soil conservation, education and business.

PMID: 12177924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-8.

Italy.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: For "Background Notes" on Italy, the U.S. State Department, Bureau of 
Public Affairs, covers geography, people, history, government, politics, 
economy, defense and foreign relations. Italy had 57.3 million persons in 1986, 
with a growth rate of 2.3%. The life expectancy is 73 years; the infant 
mortality rate is 14.3/1000 live births. 98% of the people are literate. The 
current constitutional republic has existed since 1948. Mean per capita income 
is $6,447. The people work mainly in services (60%), industry (30%) and 
agriculture (10%). Most of the country is mountainous, without significant food, 
energy or natural resources, so Italy's central position in the Mediterranean 
has influenced economic development since ancient times. The nation is highly 
homogeneous, as the government is centralized. Although there are several 
influential political parties, the diverse structure of the Christian Democrats 
has given them power since the war. The current prime minister, Bettino Craxi, 
is a member of the centralist Italian Socialist Party. The Italian Communist 
Party is the largest such party in the free world, polling 30% of the vote in 
1983. Italy is a member of NATO.

PMID: 12177926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-8.

Venezuela.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The background notes by the U.S. State Department on Venezuela emphasize 
the unique economic conditions in this oil-rich nation, and include information 
on its people, geography, history, government politics, defense and foreign 
relations. Venezuela, located on the north coast of South America, has 
17,791,000 people, growing at a rate of 2.7%. Infant mortality is 2.7/1000, and 
life expectancy is 70 years. Geography ranges from the scarcely populated 
highlands between the Orinoco river and Guyana, the Orinoco plains, to the 
populated Andes mountains and coast. 80% of the population is urban. Literacy is 
a priority at 88.4%; Technical and university education is increasing; 
emigration from other countries is common because of relatively good working 
conditions. Venezuela has a long history of self government, having become 
independent in 1921. Now the democratic constitutional government is effective 
in improving both internal and regional development and human rights. The 
economy is based on oil production and refining, as well as steel and aluminum, 
all nationalized industries. Self-sufficiency in agriculture is a national goal. 
Because of the rapid population growth rate, however, per capita income and GNP 
are stagnating.

PMID: 12177927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Dec:1-7.

Guatemala.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The people, geography, history, government, economy, defense and foreign 
relations of Guatemala are reviewed in this background notes series publication 
by the U.S. State Department. There are 8.4 million Guatemalans, growing at 3.1% 
annually. Infant mortality rate is 79/1000 and life expectancy is 55 years among 
the Indian population. The terrain includes both tropical rain forest and hot 
fertile lowlands, and cooler central highlands. The native Indians are 
descendants of the Mayans, conquered by the Spanish in the 16th century. Since 
independence in 1821, Guatemala has endured a succession of dictatorships, 
military coups, and political violence. The current government, in power since 
1986, has the benefit of elections and a constitution. The economy is based on 
private enterprise, including exports of agricultural commodities and petroleum. 
The country is self-sufficent in hydroelectric power. It has suffered from 
economic setbacks and guerrilla insurgencies in recent years, but Guatemala has 
the resources for diverse agricultural products and tourism.

PMID: 12177929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jan:1-6.

Togo.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes on the African country Togo describe its geography, 
people, history, government, economy and foreign relations. Togo lies on the 
Gulf of Guinea, between Ghana and Benin. It has 3 million people of about 21 
ethnic groups; French is the official language. Growth rate is 2.9%; life 
expectancy 47 and 50 years. 75% of the people are engaged in agriculture, 
subsistence and cash crops. Togo was a colony of Germany from 1884, then 
administered by France and U.K. after W.W.I. Togo became autonomous in 1956 and 
fully independent in 1960. The present government is by presidential decree, 
assisted by a cabinet of ministers. There is one political party, with 
committees in each village that promote development and political education. The 
economy is based on exporting phosphates, limestone and marble, cocoa, coffee 
and cotton. Per capita income is $240.

PMID: 12177930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jan:1-7.

Jamaica.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The U.S. State Department's background notes on the Caribbean island nation 
of Jamaica discusses geography, people, history, government, defense and foreign 
relations, with lengthier sections on politics and economy. Jamaica, lying south 
of Cuba, has 10,991 sq. km., 2.3 million people of African and African-European 
origin primarily, a growth rate of 1.1%, infant mortality rate of 28/1000 and 
life expectancy of 71 years. The island has diverse climatic regions, 
mountainous structure, rich resources in bauxite, and agriculture. It was 
settled in the 1500s by Spain, occupied since 1670 Britain, and became 
independent in 1962. The first election in 1945 established the roots of the 
government, modeled after the British system. The 2 major parties, derived from 
preceding labor unions, are the Jamaican Labour Party, centrist but favoring 
private business and agriculture, and the People's National Party, more populist 
and socialist. The economy has suffered in recent years from recession, 
unemployment, high interest rates, international trade deficit and government 
spending deficits, as well as a brief alignment with Cuba that discouraged both 
tourism and foreign investment. Initiatives from U.S. investors have begun to 
reverse the trend, concentrating on establishment of light industry such as 
garment making and data entry. Jamaica's wealth in her stable government, 
literate population, natural resources, fertile soil, and good relations with 
other nations and institutions suggest that she will rise above her economic 
troubles.

PMID: 12177931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Oct:1-11.

Colombia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This report of background notes for Colombia concentrates on political 
history, but also summarizes geography, people, economy, defense and foreign 
relations. Colombia, linking Panama to the northwest tip of South America, has 
26.5 million people, growing at 1.3% per year, expected to be the third most 
populous nationon the continent soon. Infant mortality rate is 65/1000 and life 
expectancy is 62 years. Literacy is reported at 80% although less than 40% of 
children complete 2.5 years of school. Geographically, Colombia has flat coastal 
areas, several mountain ranges, highlands and hot eastern plains. 70% of the 
population live in cities. There are 2 major political parties, in existence 
since the early 19th century. Recently there have been violent inter-party 
differences, punctuated by even more contentious guerrilla attacks. Colombia 
possesses resources of oil, gas coal, nickel, gold, emeralds, platinum, iron. 
Agricultural products are dominated by coffee, but also include a wide variety 
of tropical and temperate grains, fruits, vegetables, dairy and meat products, 
timber and flowers.

PMID: 12177933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Oct:1-8.

Bolivia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes by the U.S. States Department on the landlocked country of 
Bolivia, in the center of South America are presented. Bolivia has 6.25 million 
persons, about 1/3 each of Aymara indians, Quechua indians and mixed races. The 
growth rate is 2.6%, despite high death rates: infant mortality is 123/1000 and 
life expectancy is 49 years. There are fertile tropical lowland climate, hills 
and valleys, high plateaus and very high, dry cold mountain regions. Bolivia is 
the least developed, poorest nation in South America (per capita income is 
$536). There are remarkable cultural resources in archaeology, art, music, 
folklore and crafts, however. The country is plagued with military coups, social 
unrest, debt, poverty, and the disruption of international traffic in illegal 
drugs. One of the major resources, tin, has been lost as income due to collapse 
in tin prices in 1985. Other resources include natural gas, zinc, silver, 
tungsten, coffee, and undeveloped lithium, potassium and borax. Bolivia has had 
difficulties with border disputes with Chile, and since 1980, with many former 
friendly nations, including the U.S. due to a repressive military dictatorship. 
Recently, a more moderate government came into power, and relations and economic 
aid have resumed.

PMID: 12177934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Nov:1-6.

Albania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes on Albania, by the U.S. State Department, are brief 
because of scarce information from this tightly controlled communist nation. 
Albania is on the Adriatic coast between Greece and Yugoslavia. Albania has 
about 3 million people. Literacy is reported to be 75%; life expectancy 72 
years. Per capita income is $900, the poorest and most agricultural of all 
Europe, but nevertheless, they are not self-sufficient in food. There are 2 
ethnic groups, and 70% were formerly Muslim, although religious practice is 
banned. Albania has been under the domination of some other power for virtually 
all of its history, notably the Turks for centuries, and its own puppet 
communist regime since 1941. The communist government was aligned with 
Yugoslavia until 1948, then with Russia until 1961, then with China until 1978, 
and now is on its own. Albania has no relations or aid from any major power, and 
attempts to export goods to Western European countries in exchange for imported 
needs, largely machinery and equipment. Exports include electric power, metal 
ores, copper, petroleum, coal, tobacco, and textiles.

PMID: 12177936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Aug:1-6.

Dominica.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Dominica's population was estimated at 86,000 in 1987, with an annual 
growth rate of 1.4%. The infant mortality rate rate is 24.1/1000, and life 
expectancy is 57 years for men and 59 years for women. The gross domestic 
product (GDP) was US$102 million in 1987, with a growth rate of 3.5-4.0% and a 
GDP per capita of $1200. Dominica's labor force of 25,000 is allocated as 
follows: agriculture, 40%; industry and commerce, 32%; and services, 28%. The 
unemployment rate was 20% in 1985. Dominica's economy is dominated by 
agriculture, and banana production accounts for 50% of the GDP. The economy is 
highly vulnerable to weather conditions and external developments that affect 
agricultural commodity prices. Soap made from coconut oil is the island's second 
most important import, accounting for 14% of the GDP. Since Dominica's terrain 
and coast are rugged, tourism does not make a contribution to the economy. 
Agriculture is expected to remain the mainstay of Dominica's economy for the 
period ahead, and the government is very supportive of growth led by the private 
sector. An immediate goal is to reduce government recurrent spending so that a 
greater contribution can be made to the country's infrastructure.

PMID: 12177937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Aug:1-7.

Dominican Republic.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of the Dominican Republic was estimated at 6.4 million in 
1986, with an annual growth rate of 2.4%. The infant mortality rate is 96/1000, 
and life expectancy is 60 years. The literacy level is 68%. The gross domestic 
product (GDP) in the Dominican Republic in 1986 was US$5.59 billion, with a real 
annual growth rate of 1.3% and a per capita GDP of $873. The labor force is 
distributed as follows: agriculture, 45%; industry and commerce, 21% services, 
14%; and government, 20%. The Dominican economy entered a recovery period in 
1986, and expenditures were cut to create savings for a massive public 
investment program. This fiscal spending has created a domestically-led growth 
of the Dominican economy and increased purchasing power among the poor. However, 
it remains for the government to come to terms with fiscal and monetary 
imbalances so that a more sustainable, noninflationary growth of the Dominican 
economy is ensured. Since 1966, the Dominican Republic has been a representative 
democracy whose national powers are divided among independent executive, 
legislative, and judicial branches.

PMID: 12177938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-11.

Cambodia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of Cambodia stood at 6.25 million in 1986, with an average 
annual growth rate of 2.1%. Life expectancy is presently 42 years for men and 
44.9 years for women. The government is currently disputed between resistance 
groups and Vietnamese-installed authorities in Phnom Penh. No single authority 
controls the entire country. The urban population increased sharply during the 
1970-75 war, but after seizing power the Khmer Rouge forced most urban residents 
to return to rural areas as peasants. Massive numbers of people were executed 
for political reasons or died of starvation and disease during the Khmer Rouge 
period and after the dislocations caused by the Vietnamese invasion: an 
estimated 1.5-3 million people are estimated to have died out of a 1975 
population of 7.3 million. The resistance forces have grown in size and 
effectiveness since 1985 and now challenge Vietnam's position in Cambodia. The 
Cambodian economy, badly damaged by the war and the Khmer Rouge regime, has only 
slowly begun to recover. Per capita gross national product (GNP) is estimated at 
less than US$100. The food situation remains precarious, with shortages of rice, 
meat, vegetables, sugar, flour, and dairy products. Extensive damage to the 
country's irrigation system, on which rice production depends, has only begun to 
be repaired. Basic services such as electricity and water are erratic. Although 
literacy and primary education campaigns have achieved success, health 
conditions remain poor.

PMID: 12177940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 May:1-8.

Federal Republic of Germany.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) was an estimated 61 
million (including West Berlin) in 1986 and is in the process of declining 
gradually as a result of low birth rates. The infant mortality rate is 11/1000, 
while life expectancy is 73.4 years for women and 67.2 years for men. Of the 
work force of 27.6 million, 5.4% are engaged in agriculture, 41.6% work in 
industry and commerce, 10% are employed by the government, and 42.7% are in the 
service sector. The gross national product was US$898.8 billion in 1986, with an 
annual growth rate of 2.6% and a per capita income of $10,680. The government is 
parliamentary and based on a democratic constitution emphasizing protection of 
individual liberty and divided power in a federal structure. Political life 
since the establishment of the FRG in 1949 has been characterized by remarkable 
stability and orderly succession. The FRG ranks among the most important 
economic powers in the world. The economy is largely export oriented, with 
25-30% of the gross national product shipped abroad each year. Competition and 
free enterprise are fostered, but the state participates in the ownership and 
management of major sections of the economy, including public services. A major 
concern at present is the country's ability to adapt to new markets and to 
develop sophisticated technologies.

PMID: 12177942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-4.

[South] Yemen.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of Yemen stood at 2.02 million in 1984, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.9%. The infant mortality rate is 137/1000; life expectancy is 
46 years. The literacy rate is 32%. The work force of 410,000 is distributed as 
follows: agriculture and fisheries, 43.8%; industry and commerce, 28%; and 
services, 28%. In 1984, the gross national product in Yemen was US$1130 million, 
with an average real growth rate of 7.4% in 1973-83. In 1978, the 3 political 
parties were amalgamated into the Yemen Socialist Party, which became the only 
legal party. Until 1982, economic policy was focused on infrastructure 
development and agricultural self-sufficiency; since that time, there have been 
efforts to discover and produce oil. Most of the people of Yemen are subsistence 
farmers or nomadic herders.

PMID: 12177943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-7.

Luxembourg.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population of Luxembourg stood at 366,000 in 1986, with an annual 
growth rate of under 1%. The infant mortality rate is 11.7/1000. Life expectancy 
is 70 years for men and 76.7 years for women. There is 100% literacy. 
Luxembourg's gross domestic product in 1986 was US$5.1 billion, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.5% and a per capita income of $13,900. Of the labor force of 
161,000, 5% are engaged in agriculture, 35% are employed in industry and 
commerce, 49% work in services, and 11% are employed by the government. 
Luxembourg has a parliamentary form of government with a constitutional 
monarchy. The 3 major parties are the Christian Social Party, the Socialist 
Party, and the Democratic (Liberal) Party. Luxembourg is a highly 
industrialized, export-intensive country. The iron and steel sector is the most 
important single sector of the economy; steel accounts for 36% of all exports, 
10% of the gross domestic product, and 9% of the work force. The recent relative 
decline of the steel sector has been offset by the development of Luxembourg as 
a financial center. In 1987, the government estimates that unemployment will 
remain below 1.8%, inflation will increase slightly to 2%, and the gross 
domestic product's growth will increase to 2.8%.

PMID: 12177944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Mar:1-10.

Pakistan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This information sheet about Pakistan, by the U.S. State Dept., summarizes 
its geography, political history, government, economy and international 
relations. Pakistan, lying on the Arabian Sea between Iran and India, and 
neighboring Afghanistan and China, has been independent from British control 
since 1947. Her people, 98 million, come from several Indo-European ethnic 
groups, but are 97% Muslim. Most live in the fertile Indus river valley; 53% 
work in agriculture; 13% in industry; mean per capita income is $331. The infant 
mortality rate is about 119/1000; life expectancy around 51 years. The country 
is endowed with resources, besides farmland, of oil, gas, coal, iron and 
hydroelectric power. It produces cotton, rice, fruits and vegetables as well for 
export. Pakistan's history is filled with strife, armed or political, marked by 
the independence of East Pakistan, now Bangladesh, in 1970, and rivalry for 
power by military and democratic factions, ending with a real election of 
Benazir Bhutto in 1986. Despite basic resources and a net export of food and 
textiles, the country has a significant debt and runs a deficit, and supports a 
rapidly growing young population (3.1% growth rate). Pakistan partakes in a 
complicated net of international relations due to the alignment of countries on 
her borders. Religious and ethnic conflicts with India, ideological difficulties 
and millions of refugees flowing from Afghanistan, but good relations with Iran 
and China make up this pattern.

PMID: 12177945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Feb:1-11.

Sweden.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Sweden's population stood at 8.4 million, with an annual growth 
rate of 0.2%. The infant mortality rate was 6.4/1000, and life expectancy was 76 
years for men and 82 years for women. The gross domestic product was US$100.2 
billion, with a per capita income of $11,989. Of the work force of 4.34 million, 
4.9% are in agriculture, 29.8% work in industry, 21.3% are employed in the 
commerce and finance sector, and 43.9% are engaged in services. Among the social 
problems Sweden faces are the increasingly large proportion of the population 
over age 65 years and the challenge of integrating immigrants into social and 
political life while preserving national languages and customs. Development 
during the 1970s was less favorable than in most comparable countries; however, 
industrial recovery during the 1980s has restored the competitiveness of Swedish 
exports. There is general agreement that investment in new plants and machinery 
must be increased and wages and consumption must be moderated if Sweden is to 
expand its industrial sector.

PMID: 12177946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Feb:1-7.

Tunisia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, Tunisia's population was 7,424,000, with an annual growth rate of 
2.5%. The infant mortality rate was 90/1000 and life expectancy averages 58 
years. The work force of 1,810,000 is distributed as follows: agriculture, 
30.5%; manufacturing, 16.5%; services, 15.0%; construction and mining, 11.4%; 
and other, 26.6%. The gross domestic product was US$8.35 billion in 1985, with a 
per capita income (1986) of $1163. The Destourian Socialist Party has been the 
governing party in Tunisia since independence. Tunisia is a leader in the Arab 
world in the promotion of equal status for women under the law and the 
government supports an active family planning program. Tunisia's economy depends 
on oil, agriculture, phosphates, worker remittances, and tourism for economic 
growth. In response to an economic crisis in 1985-86, measures to restructure 
the economy were instituted, including basic commodity price increases, limits 
on wage increases, import liberalization, and price control modifications. 
Unemployment, aggravated by a rapidly growing work force, is a major problem in 
Tunisia. An estimated 50% of the potential work force is unemployed or 
underemployed.

PMID: 12177947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Apr:1-4.

Maldives.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Maldives covers the following: geography; people; 
history; government and political conditions; the economy; foreign relations; 
and relations between the US and Maldives. In 1985, the population was estimated 
to be 181,453 and the annual growth rate 3.4%. The infant mortality rate is 
81.5/1000; life expectancy is 53.5 years. Located in the northern Indian Ocean, 
Maldives is an island about 2.6 square kilometers, 670 kilometers southwest of 
Sri Lanka. Only about 200 of the 1200 islands are inhabited. Only 33 islands 
have more than 1000 inhabitants. The earliest settlers were most likely from 
southern India, followed by Indo-European speakers from Sri Lanka. Arab sailors 
came from East African and other countries. Today, Maldivian ethnic 
consciousness is a blend of these cultures. The early history of Maldives 
remains obscure. Independent for most of its history, the islands were ruled by 
Portugal from 1558-73 and were a British protectorate from 1887 until July 26, 
1965. On November 11, 1968, the sultanate was abolished, and the country took 
its present name, Republic of Maldives. In 1968 Maldives became a republic with 
executive, legislative, and judicial branches of government. Since 1981 the 
constitution has been in the process of revision. The economy is based on 
fishing, tourism, and shipping. Poor soil and limited availability of cultivable 
land limit agriculture to a few subsistence crops. Boatbuilding and handicrafts 
are the basis of traditional industry; modern industry is restricted to a few 
consumer products, a fish cannery, and 3 garment factories. Fishing employs 
about 45% of the labor force. Maldives experienced a balance-of-trade deficit of 
$37.9 million and a current-accounts deficit of $16.5 million in 1984. 
Government expenditure was $26.1 million (34% of the gross national product). 
Maldives, which follows a nonaligned policy, is committed to the principle of 
maintaining friendly relations with all countries and has friendly relations 
with the US. US contributions to economic development in Maldives have been 
principally through international organization programs. Additionally, the US 
government has encouraged private voluntary organizations to become involved in 
Maldivian programs and has provided telecommunications equipment and educational 
assistance.

PMID: 12177948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-4.

Barbados.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Barbados is a Caribbean island nation that has had a stable British 
government since 1639, and then independence after 1966, according to this 
background paper by the US State Department. As a result its population of 
250,000 is 99% literate, has an infant mortality rate of 26 and a life 
expectancy of 71 years. Barbados is densely populated at 587 per square km. The 
government-supported family planning program has been effective, along with 
heavy emigration, to hold down population growth to 0.5%/year. The economy is 
based on sugar, tourism and light industry, producing a per capita income of 
$4430. Barbados has no natural resources; unemployment is 18%; the price of 
sugar products exported is subsidized; and imports exceed exports by $300 
million.

PMID: 12177950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Jun:1-8.

Niger.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Niger is two-thirds Sahara desert and the rest savannah with an area 
irrigated by the Niger River valley. The 6.2 million people are therefore either 
nomadic herdsmen or subsistence farmers, coping with a hot, dry climate. There 
are 5 or more ethnic groups, 2 main languages other than the official French, 
and most people are Muslim. The growth rate is 3.1%; children make up 45% of the 
population; infant mortality is 145/1000; life expectancy is 44.5 years. The 
constitutional government has been suspended by a military regime. A 
multi-layered structure called "development society" has been instituted. Per 
capita income is about $265. Niger has uranium, coal, iron, tin and phosphates, 
and farm products include peanuts, millet, sorghum, beans, cotton, rice and 
cowpeas. Niger received assistance from France, US, West Germany, Canada, Saudi 
Arabia, as well as international organizations and military assistance from 
several countries.

PMID: 12177951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Oct:1-7.

Mauritania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The West African country of Mauritania bridges the chasm between 
Mediterranean and sub-Saharan Africa. The population of 1.85 million is a 
mixture of Arab, Berber and Negroid races, with languages and cultures to match, 
but they all share the Islam religion. Geographically, Mauritania meets Saharan 
Algeria on the northeast, contains mineral and iron rich hills in the center, 
Sahelian plains in the south, and the Senegal river valley on its southwestern 
border. Although a large proportion of the population are nomads, since 1980 
many have settled in urban shanty-towns to escape drought. The infant mortality 
rate is 102/1000, life expectancy 46 years, literacy 17%, and per capita income 
$450. THe economy is split between those doing subsistence herding or farming, 
and the industrial iron and copper mines and fisheries. Mauritania has been 
governed by a military junta, the Committee for National Salvation, since 1978. 
The current government permitted municipal elections in 1986, but political 
parties and debate are banned. The economy is buttressed by high-grade iron ore 
exports; otherwise, drought, mismanagement and low commodity prices have plagued 
Mauritania's development.

PMID: 12177952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Nov:1-6.

[North] Yemen.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Yemen Arab Republic, also called North Yemen, is a small republic on 
the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula facing the Red Sea. Yemen has a 
temperate interior suitable for agriculture. 8.7 million people of Semetic Arab 
origin are growing at a rate of 3.1% yearly. The infant mortality rate is 
173/1000; the life expectancy is 44 years, and the per capita income is about 
$550. Yemen was once self-sufficient in food production, exporting fine coffee. 
Years of civil wars, emigration to Saudi Arabia for work, production of the cash 
crop "qat" for internal consumption, and the recent drought have contributed to 
the decline of agriculture. Yemen's economy is maintained by foreign aid from 
Saudi Arabia, the Soviet Union, China, and the United States. U.S. aid has 
centered around food, roads and other development projects and primary health 
care such as immunization and reduction of child mortality.

PMID: 12177954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Nov:1-8.

El Salvador.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Central American republic of El Salvador lies on the Pacific with a 
south coast between Guatemala and Honduras. The climate rises from tropical 
maritime along the coast to subtropical hill and valley strip to a mountainous 
interior. The population consists of 98% Mestizo and 10% Indian, totaling 5.1 
million, growing at 2.4 annually. Literacy varies from 40-60%; the infant 
mortality rate is 71/1000, and the life expectancy is 63-66 years. The economy 
is based on agricultural products as coffee, sugar and cotton and light industry 
such as textiles and petroleum refining, but due to political unrest, the 1986 
earthquake, and fluctuating commodity prices, inflation runs about 36% and the 
per capita income is $700. El Salvador takes pride in its independence since 
1821, but its history is marked by revolutions and control of government, 
military and ecclesiastical power by "the fourteen families." The current 
democratic government, considered to be the result of a fair election, is 
undertaking land reform and participates in the Central American peace process.

PMID: 12177956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 May:1-6.

Iran.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Iran's population stood at 49.8 million in 1986, 1 1/2-2 million of which 
were Afghan refugees. The annual population growth rate was 4%. The infant 
mortality rate was 10/1000 and life expectancy was 54 years. 40% of the labor 
force is engaged in agriculture, 33% are employed in industry and commerce, and 
27% work in services. Iran is an Islamic republic dominated by the Islamic 
Republican Party. By the 1970s, Iran has achieved significant industrialization 
and economic modernization. However, economic activity was disrupted by the 1979 
revolution and more recently by the war with Iraq and the sharp decline in oil 
prices. All major business and industrial growth indicators are significantly 
below prerevolutionary levels and unemployment is over 30%. Political infighting 
has hampered the formulation of coherent economic policies, and purges in the 
civil service in the postrevolutionary phase eliminated many qualified 
personnel. The petroleum, mining, utilities, and transportation sectors have 
been nationalized, but there is dissension within the Khomeni's regime as to how 
to proceed with land reform. Iran's gross national product was US$75 billion in 
1986, with a per capita income of $1667. Inflation is about 25-40%.

PMID: 12177957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Aug:1-6.

Belize.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, the population of Belize stood at 166,000, with an annual growth 
rate of 1%. The infant mortality rate was 56/1000, and life expectancy is 60 
years. Of the work force of 50,000, 30% are engaged in agriculture, 27% are 
employed in industry and commerce, 25% are in the services sector, and 16% are 
government employees. Belize is a parliamentary democracy. Independence was 
achieved in 1981. The country's gross domestic product was US$156 million in 
1985, with an annual growth rate of 1.5%. Per capita income is US$938. Forestry 
was the major economic activity until the timber supply began to dwindle. Sugar 
is now the principal export, although efforts are underway to expand the 
production of citrus, rice, beef, bananas, and tropical fruit. Domestic industry 
is constrained by the relatively high cost of labor and a small domestic market. 
Membership in the Caribbean community provides Belize with assured access to a 
large market for potential grain and livestock surpluses and should help 
stimulate the growth of commercial agriculture. Belize also expects to benefit 
from its designation for the Caribbean Basin Initiative, a US Government program 
designed to stimulate investment in Caribbean nations by providing duty free 
access to the US market for most Caribbean products. Economic growth has been 
hindered by the lack of infrastructure, especially roads, electricity, and port 
facilities. The Government recognizes the need to develop the country, and 54% 
of its 1986-87 budget of US$106.8 million is earmarked for development spending.

PMID: 12177958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Sep:1-8.

Poland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, Poland's population was 37.5 million and the annual population 
growth rate was 0.8%. The infant mortality rate was 19.3/1000 and life 
expectancy stood at 71.6 years. Of the labor force of 17.5 million, 30% were 
engaged in agriculture, 44% were in industry and commerce, 8% were government 
employees, and 11% were employed in services. Poland is a communist state. The 
economy is based on the Soviet model of state ownership of most of the country's 
productive assets, although the private sector predominates in agriculture. The 
rights of private farmers are now protected through a 1983 amendment to the 
constitution. Poland's economy has performed poorly in comparison with other 
Eastern European economies. The economic growth rate is 5% and inflation 
averages 20%. Per capita income is US$2000. Industries were centralized 
following World War II, and this systemic rigidity is considered to have 
contributed to the economy's poor performance. Another important factor has been 
low reliance of foreign trade, meaning that Poland's industries have failed to 
develop competitiveness. The government has committed itself to a so-called 
second-stage of economic reform, but to date there have been few concrete 
accomplishments.

PMID: 12177960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Mar:1-4.

Norway.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This background note for Norway by the U.S. State Department describes the 
geography, people, history, government, politics, and foreign relations of this 
newly oil-rich Scandinavian nation. Norwegians number 4.1 million, growing only 
at 0.3% per year, of Germanic origin, with 20,000 Laplanders. Infant mortality 
is 9/1000; life expectancy is 73 and 80 years. The government is a 
constitutional monarchy, with socialized medicine, education through university 
and social security. Norway became independent of Sweden in 1905, was a 
non-belligerent in both world wars, but was occupied by Nazi Germany. 
Subsequently Norway has required military service and is a member of NATO. 
Norway is a wealthy developed nation, with a positive foreign trade balance, a 
per capita income of $14,000, resources of oil, fish, timber, hydroelectric 
power, ores, and an industrial economy. Norway sends out about $471 million in 
foreign aid.

PMID: 12177961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jun:1-7.

Syria.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Syria's population was estimated at 10.5 million. The infant 
mortality rate was 42/1000 live births, and life expectancy was 66 years. 
Literacy was 78% among males and 58% among females. Of the work force of 3.1 
million, 32% were engaged in the agricultural sector, 29% were in industry and 
commerce, and 39% were employed in the service sector. Syria's gross domestic 
product in 1984 was US$13.9 billion ($1388 per capita). Arabs comprise the major 
ethnic group (90%). The major religions in Syria are Sunni Muslim (70%), other 
Muslim sects (16%), and Christian (13%). Syria is a republic that has been under 
socialist regimes since 1963. In recent years, the government has made large 
strides in expanding the economic infrastructure and developing neglected rural 
areas. Land reform has enhanced opportunities for rural peasants. In addition, 
the government has been successful in extending education, health care, and 
other social services to rural areas.

PMID: 12177962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Oct:1-8.

Iraq.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Iraq is directed to the following: 
geography; people; history; government; political conditions; the economy; 
defense; foreign relations; and relations between the US and Iraq. In 1986, 
Iraq's population was estimated to be 16 million with an annual growth rate of 
3.3%. The infant mortality rate is 25/1000; life expectancy is 56.1 years. Iraq 
is bordered by Kuwait, Iran, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia. Almost 75% 
of the population live in the flat, alluvial plain stretching southeast toward 
Baghdad and Basra to the Persian Gulf. The 2 largest ethnic groups are Arabas 
and Kurds; other distinct groups are Assyrians, Turkomans, Iranians, Lurs, and 
Armenians. Iraq, once known as Mesopotamia, was the site of flourishing ancient 
civilizations. Muslims conquered Iraq in the 7th century A.D. In the 8th 
century, the Abassid caliphate established its capital at Baghdad, and by 1638 
Baghdad had become a frontier outpost of the Ottoman Empire. At the end of World 
War I, Iraq became a British-mandated territory. When it was declared 
independent in 1932, the Hashemite family ruled as a constitutional monarchy. In 
1945, Iraq joined the UN and became a founding member of the Arab League. The 
Ba'ath Party rules Iraq through the 9-member Revolutionary Command Council 
(RCC). The RCC's president (chief of state and supreme commander of the armed 
forces) is elected by a 2/3 majority of the RCC. A Council of Ministers, 
appointed by the RCC, has administrative and some legislative responsibilities. 
A 250-member National Assembly was elected on June 20, 1980, in the 1st 
elections since the end of the monarchy, with another National Assembly election 
held in October 1984. The Ba'ath Party controls the government. The Iraqi regime 
does not tolerate opposition. The economy of Iraq is characterized by a heavy 
dependence on oil exports and an emphasis on development through central 
planning. Economic performance deteriorated in 1986 because of the sharp decline 
in world oil prices. Despite abundant land and water resources, Iraq is a net 
food importer. The Iran-Iraq war reversed Iraq's foreign trade balance from a 
large surplus into a severe deficit, which topped $7 billion in 1982. The war 
with Iran has caused the Iraqi government to expand significantly the size of 
its armed forces and the paramilitary. Iraq has accepted all UN cease-fire 
resolutions as well as all mediation efforts. Through mid-1987, Iran regime 
continued to reject all such mediation initiatives. The US and Iraq 
reestablished diplomatic relations in November 1984.

PMID: 12177965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Aug:1-6.

Lesotho.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Lesotho is on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government; political conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; and relations between the US and Lesotho. The population totaled 
1,621,932 in 1987 with an annual growth rate of 2.7%. In 1986, the infant 
mortality rate was 111/1000. Life expectancy is 59 years. Lesotho's population 
lives primarily in the western lowlands. Much of the work force is employed from 
3-9 months a year in South Africa in mining, farming, or industry. Most Basotho 
are Roman Catholic, but the Lesotho Evangelical Church and the Anglican Church 
are prominent. Basutoland (now Lesotho) was populated sparsely by Bushmen 
(Qhuaique) until the end of the 16th century. Between the 16th and 19th 
centuries, an influx of refugees from tribal wars in surrounding areas populated 
the region. In 1968 the country was placed under British protection. From 1884 
to 1959, legislative and executive authority was vested in a British High 
Commission. In 1959 a new constitution gave Basutoland its 1st elected 
legislature. The British then acceded to the people's desire for full 
independence. General elections with universal adult suffrage were held in April 
1965. King Moshoeshoe II is chief of state. Prior to 1970, Lesotho was a 
constitutional monarchy with an elected bicameral Parliament consisting of a 
60-seat National Assembly and a 33-seat Senate. A Military Council degree 
published in January 1986 vested the executive and legislative power of the 
state in the King, acting on the advice of the Military Council. The reasons for 
the military takeover in 1986 were complex: the Jonathan regime had alienated 
both the Basotho power elements and the general population, and South Africa 
virtually had closed the land borders because of concerns over African National 
Congress (ANC) cross-border operations. The new government adopted a policy of 
national reconciliation upon assuming power. The economy of Lesotho is based on 
agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, and earnings of laborers employed in 
South Africa. The Lesotho National Development Corporation encourages foreign 
investment. The corporation has proved moderately successful in stimulating the 
