establishing of light industries and in attracting investment in tourist 
facilities. The US maintains friendly relations with the government and the 
people of Lesotho. Estimated US assistance to Lesotho for fiscal year 1986 was: 
US Agency for International Development, $9.6 million; Food for Peace, $3.6 
million; and Peace Corps, 88 volunteers.

PMID: 12177966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Sep:1-4.

Liberia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Liberia, appropriately named since it became the first independent African 
republic in 1847, lies on the Atlantic coast between Sierra Leone and Cote 
d'Ivoire. The population of about 2 million people, of 16 ethnic groups 
including descendants of freed African slaves, and over 20 languages, is growing 
about 3% yearly. The infant mortality rate is estimated at 132/1000 and the life 
expectancy 49 years. Education to 6 years of primary school is compulsory but 
generally not available. Liberia's climate is tropical with a winter wet season 
throughout the country of coastal plains, although there are some low foothills 
and mountains near the northeast border. The economy is based on export of iron 
ore and rubber, with a lesser contribution of timber, diamonds, gold. The 
current government has been in power since 1985, voted in by contested elections 
after a 6-year period of martial law. Liberia has had a history since its 
founding of good relations with the U.S., and support of United Nations and 
African regional organizations.

PMID: 12177967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Feb:1-7.

Djibouti.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Republic of Djibouti, an area of 9,000 square miles on the Horn of 
Africa, is bounded on 3 sides by Ethiopia and Somalia and on the 4th by the Gulf 
of Aden, where the capital city, Djibouti, with its good natural harbor, is 
located. The population of 387,000, growing at 5.1% a year, is divided between 
the majority Somalis (of the Issa, Ishaak and Gadaboursi tribes) and the Afars 
and Danakils. All are Cushite-speaking, although the official language is 
French. Almost all of the people are Muslim. The country became independent of 
France in 1977; it had been the French Territory of Afars and Issas from 1966-77 
and French Somaliland from 1884 to 1966. During the Second World War, Djibouti 
was governed from Vichy until 1942, when the country joined the Free French, and 
a Djibouti battalion participated in the liberation of France. The country is 
governed by a president (Mr. Hassan Gouled Aptidon), a prime minister (Mr. 
Barkat Gourad Hammadou), and a 65-member parliament, elected by universal 
suffrage. There is only 1 permitted political party, the Rassemblement Populaire 
Pour le Progres (RPP), which is dominated by the Issas. There are no women in 
high government positions, but the status of women is somewhat higher than in 
most Islamic countries. Djibouti has a small army, navy, and air force, 
supplemented by 4000 French troops. The level of socioeconomic development is 
not good. The economy is stagnant, and the country is afflicted with recurring 
drought. Only 20% of the people are literate; infant mortality is 114/1000, and 
life expectancy is 50 years. Per capita income is $450. Malaria is prevalent; 
there is only 1 hospital; and drinking water is unsafe. There are no natural 
resources, no industry, and very little agriculture. Most of the country's gross 
domestic product of $339 million is derived from servicing the port's facilities 
for container shipment and transshipment and maintaining the Addis 
Ababa-Djibouti railroad. The unit of currency is the Djibouti franc, and the 
official exchange rate is 177 DF to US$1. Djibouti's imports amount to $230 
million, most of which are consumed in the country and paid for by French 
economic assistance and $3 million a year from the US. Djibouti is a member of 
the UN, the Organization of African Unity, the Arab League, the Nonaligned 
Movement, the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), and the 
Intergovernmental Authority for Drought and Development (IGADD).

PMID: 12177971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-8.

Kuwait.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Republic of Kuwait occupies an area of 6,880 square miles at the head 
of the Persian Gulf, bounded on the north and west by Iraq and on the south by 
Saudi Arabia. 1.7 million people live in Kuwait, of whom 680,000 are Kuwaitis; 
the rest are expatriate Arabs, Iranians, and Indians. The annual growth rate of 
Kuwaitis is 3.8%. The Kuwaitis are 70% Sunni and 30% Shi'a Muslims. Arabic is 
the official language, but English is widely spoken. Kuwait is a highly 
developed welfare state with a free market economy. Education is free and 
compulsory, and literacy is 71%. Infant mortality among Kuwaitis is 26.1/1000, 
and life expectancy is 70 years. Medical care is free. Kuwait was first settled 
by Arab tribes from Qatar. In 1899 the ruler, Sheikh Mubarak Al Sabah, whose 
descendents still rule Kuwait, signed a treaty with Britain; and Kuwait remained 
a British protectorate until it became independent in 1961. A constitution was 
promulgated in 1962, and a National Assembly was elected by adult male suffrage 
in 1963. However, the Assembly has since been suspended due to internal 
friction. Kuwait and Iraq have been disputing Kuwait's northern border since 
1913, and the southern border includes a Divided Zone, where sovereignty is 
disputed by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Despite the fall in oil prices in 1982 and 
the loss of trade due to the Iran-Iraq war, Kuwait is one of the world's 
wealthiest countries with a per capita gross domestic product of $10,175. Oil 
accounts for 85% of Kuwait's exports, which total $7.42 billion; income from 
foreign investments (about $60 billion) makes up most of the balance. All 
petroleum-related activities are managed by the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation 
(KPC), which includes the nationalized Kuwait Oil Company, petrochemical 
industries, the 22-vessel tanker fleet, and refineries and service stations in 
Europe, where Kuwaiti oil is marketed under the brand name Q8. Kuwait has more 
than 66 billion barrels of recoverable oil but limits production to 999,000 
barrels per day. Other industrial products include ammonia, chemical 
fertilizers, fishing and water desalinization (215 million gallons a day). 
Kuwait imports machinery, manufactured goods, and food. Nevertheless exports 
exceed imports by $2 billion, and the Kuwaiti dinar is a strong currency (1 
KD=US$3.57). About $75 billion is kept in 2 reserve funds: the Fund for Future 
Generations and the General Reserve Fund. In addition to domestic expenditures 
and imports, Kuwait has extended $5 billion worth of loans to developing 
countries, made through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. Kuwait 
has been engaged in continuing border disputes with Iraq since 1961, but the 
most immediate threat to Kuwait has been the Iran-Iraq war. Kuwait lent Iraq $6 
billion, in retaliation for which Iran bombed a Kuwaiti oil depot, and Shi'a 
Muslim terrorists bombed the French and US embassies and hijacked a Kuwaiti 
airliner in 1984. Iran also attacked Kuwaiti tankers. In 1987 the US reflagged 
11 Kuwaiti tankers to protect them from Iranian attacks. Kuwait has been 
modernizing its own military forces as well as purchasing sophisticated weapons 
from the UK, the US, France, and the USSR. In 1981 Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, 
Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Oman formed the Gulf Cooperation 
Council (GCC) for mutual defense, and in 1987 Kuwait was elected chairman of the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). Kuwait has diplomatic relations 
with the USSR and the People's Republic of China, as well as with the US, which 
has supplied Kuwait with $1.5 billion of sophisticated weaponry from foreign 
military sales (FMC). The US is Kuwait's largest supplier (after Japan), and 
Kuwait is the 5th largest market in the Middle East for US goods, despite the 
disincentives brought about by the Arab boycott of Israel.

PMID: 12177972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-8.

Turkey.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Turkey is on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government and political conditions; the economy; defense; and 
relations between the US and Turkey. In 1986, Turkey's population was estimated 
to be 51.8 million with an annual growth rate of 2.5%. The infant mortality rate 
is 12.3/1000 with a life expectancy of 62.7 years. Turkey is located partly in 
Europe and partly in Asia. Since 1950, urban areas have experienced tremendous 
growth, and squatter dwellings are evident around the cities' edges. About half 
of Turkey's population live in urban areas. Turkish culture is made up of both 
the modern and traditional, Ottoman and folkloric, elements. The Republic of 
Turkey was founded by Mustafa Kemal, subsequently named Ataturk, in 1982 after 
the collapse of the 600-year-old Ottoman empire. The new republic focused on 
modernizing and Westernizing the empire's Turkish core -- Anatolia and a small 
part of Thrace. The 1982 constitution preserves a democratic, secular, 
parliamentary form of government with a strengthened presidence. It provides for 
an independent judiciary along with the safeguarding of internationally 
recognized human rights. The legislative functions are carried out by the 
unicameral, 450-member GNA. The economy is developing structurally, yet the 
agricultural sector remains significant and produces cotton, tobacco, grains, 
fruits, and vegetables. Over half of the labor force are farmers, contributing 
over 1/5 of the gross domestic product. A significant portion of industry also 
is involved in processing agricultural products. The period from the mid-1960s 
to the mid-1970s was the longest sustained period of economic growth and 
development in modern Turkish history, with annual growth rates of nearly 7%. 
Oil price increases after 1973 and the concomitant European recession slowed 
Turkish growth and also revealed major structural deficiencies. The economic 
crisis worsened in 1979 as oil prices doubled again. The Demirel government 
adopted a strong economic reform program in January 1980. As a result of various 
government economic policies, economic activity increased. The US and Turkey 
signed a Defense and Economic Cooperation Agreement in March 1980 that provided 
a new framework for US military activities in Turkey and committed the US to a 
"best effort" in providing defense support to the Turkish Armed Forces.

PMID: 12177973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-8.

Thailand.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Thailand is on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government; the economy; defense; foreign relations; and 
relations between Thailand and the US. In 1987, the population totaled 54 
million with an annual growth rate of less than 1.6%. The infant mortality rate 
is 45/1000 with a life expectancy of 64.2 years. Thailand's society is 
relatively homogeneous with more than 85% of the people speaking a dialect of 
Thai and sharing a common culture. According to recent archeological studies, 
communities in Thailand had emerged as centers of early bronze metallurgy as 
early as 4000 B.C. Together with the cultivation of wet rice, this provided the 
impetus for social and political organization. The Thai date the founding of 
their nation to the 13th century. A revolution in 1932 transformed the 
government of Thailand from an absolute to a constitutional monarchy. This 
transition was smooth and nonviolent. The 1978 constitution, the 4th since 1932, 
provides that the kind is formally the head of state. He has little direct power 
but is an important popular symbol of national identity and unity. A 14-member 
Privy Council is appointed by the kind to advise him and, under certain 
conditions, to appoint a regent for the exercise of royal powers. Other state 
organs mandated in the constitution are the National Assembly, the Council of 
Ministers, the courts, and the local government. The office of the prime 
minister is the center of political power. Thailand is endowed with considerable 
natural resources, and the economy has demonstrated impressive growth. Foreign 
trade and investment are key aspects of the economy. Agriculture is the most 
important economic activity; more than 60% of the population live in rural 
areas. Industry and the service sector also are important and have contributed 
to the consistently rapid growth of the economy. Official relations between the 
US and Thailand date from 1833. Thailand has received US military equipment, 
essential supplies, training, and assistance in the construction and improvement 
of key facilities and installations since 1950. The US continues its program of 
military assistance.

PMID: 12177974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-9.

Taiwan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Taiwan is directed to the following: 
geography; the people -- education, languages, religions, and cultural 
background; history; administration; political conditions; the economy; defense; 
foreign relations; and relations between the US and Taiwan. In 1987 the 
population was estimated to be 19.7 million with an annual growth rate of 1.07%. 
The infant mortality rate in 1986 was 0.7% with a life expectancy of 70.8 for 
men and 75.8 for women. Taipei, which continues its claim of sovereignty over 
all of China in the name of the "Republic of China," exercises control only over 
the island of Taiwan, the Penghu Islands, and about 20 offshore islands, most 
near the China mainland. Most native Taiwanese speak a variant of the Amoy 
(Hokkien) dialect of Southern Fujian. The predominant religion is a combination 
of Buddhism and Taoism. Chinese sources show migration to Taiwan began as early 
as A.D. 500. Dutch traders 1st claimed the island in 1624 as a base for Dutch 
commerce with Japan and the China coast. The 1st major influx of migrants from 
the Chinese mainland came during the Dutch period. In 1664, a Chinese fleet led 
by the Ming loyalist Zheng Chenggong retreated from the mainland and occupied 
Taiwan. Zheng expelled the Dutch and established Taiwan as a base in his attempt 
to restore the Ming Dynasty. After his death in 1683, his successors submitted 
to Manchu control. Manchu China ruled Taiwan as a frontier district until it was 
declared a separate Chinese province in 1886. The authorities in Taipei claim to 
be the government of all China, including Taiwan. When President Chiang 
Ching-kuo died in 1988, he was succeeded by Vice President Lee Teng-hui, who had 
been elected along with Chiang by the National Assembly to a 6-year term. Until 
1986, Taiwan's political system was effectively 1 party. Before elections in 
1986, many "nonpartisans" grouped together to form Taiwan's 1st new political 
party in over 4 decades -- the Democratic Progressive Party. Friction between 
mainlanders and native Taiwanese continues to be a problem, but it has abated 
with time and the gradual melding of the 2 Chinese communities. Taiwan has 
changed from an agricultural to an industrialized economy over the past 30 
years. During 1973-82, the gross domestic product rose at an annual average of 
9.5% in real terms. President Carter signed into law on April 10, 1979, the 
Taiwan Relations Act, which created domestic legal authority for the conduct of 
unofficial relations with Taiwan.

PMID: 12177975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Sep:1-10.

Chile.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Chile is a long (2650 miles), narrow (250 miles at widest point) country 
sandwiched between the Andes mountains and the Pacific. The northern desert is 
rich in copper and nitrates; the temperate middle region is agricultural and 
supports the major cities, including Santiago, the capital, and the port of 
Valparaiso; and the southern region is a cold and damp area of forests, 
grasslands, lakes, and fjords. The country is divided into 12 administrative 
regions. Chile's population of 12.5 million are mainly of Spanish or Indian 
descent or mestizos. Literacy is 92.3%, and the national language is Spanish. 
Infant mortality is 18.1/1000, and life expectancy is 68.2 years. 82% of the 
people are urban, and most are Roman Catholics. Chile was settled by the Spanish 
in 1541 and attached to the Viceroyalty of Peru. Independence was won in 1818 
under the leadership of Bernardo O'Higgins. In the 1880s Chile extended its 
sovereignty over the Strait of Magellan in the south and areas of southern Peru 
and Bolivia in the north. An officially parliamentary government, elected by 
universal suffrage, drifted into oligarchy and finally into a military 
dictatorship under Carlos Ibanez in 1924. Constitutional government was restored 
in 1932. The Christian Democratic government of Eduardo Frei (1964-70) 
inaugurated major reforms, including land redistribution, education, and 
far-reaching social and economic policies. A Marxist government under Salvador 
Allende lasted from 1970 to 1973 when the present military government of General 
Pinochet Ugarte took power, overthrew Allende, abolished the Congress, and 
banned political parties. It has moved the country in the direction of a free 
market economy but at the cost of systematic violations of human rights. A new 
constitution was promulgated in 1981, and congressional elections have been 
scheduled for October, 1989. A "National Accord for Transition to Full 
Democracy" was mediated by the Catholic Church in 1985. The social reforms of 
the Allende government resulted in enormous fiscal deficits, economic recession, 
inflation, and severe decline in the gross domestic product. In 1982 the 
government devalued the peso and agreed to the International Monetary Fund's 
2-year austerity program to lower the $20.5 billion national debt. In 1987 the 
gross domestic product was $18.4 billion, $1465 per capita; the annual real 
growth rate was 5.4%, and inflation had fallen from an annual rate of over 1000% 
to 21.5%. 245 Chilean pesos equal US1$. Chile's chief export is copper ($2.2 
billion in 1987), of which Chile is the world's largest producer and exporter. 
Chile also exports gold, silver, iron ore, molybdenum, iodine, and nitrates. 
Chile has 20% of the world's copper reserves and 33% of the world's lithium. 21% 
of Chile's gross domestic product consists of textiles, metal manufacturing, 
food processing, pulp, paper, and wood products; and 10% consists of 
agricultural produce. Relations with the United States deteriorated after the 
1976 murder in Washington, DC, of former Chilean ambassador Orlando Letelier. 
Arms and security assistance to Chile were banned, and in 1981 the US Agency for 
International Development and the Peace Corps ceased operations in Chile.

PMID: 12177976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Nov:1-8.

Cameroon.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The country of Cameroon is situated in the western part of Africa on the 
Gulf of Guinea, about midway between Senegal and the Republic of South Africa. 
Described are such points as geography, people, history, government, political 
conditions, economy, foreign relations, defense, and US-Cameroonian relations. 
In 1987, the population estimate was 10.5 million, 60% of which live in rural 
areas; the annual growth rate was 7%. Infant mortality rate is 92/1000. Life 
expectancy stands at 54 years. In health related matters, visitors must have 
vaccination certificates against yellow fever and cholera, and vaccinations are 
recommended against tetanus, typhoid, paratyphoid, polio, and hepatitis.

PMID: 12177977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Sep:1-8.

Ireland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The country of Ireland occupies about 5/6 of the island of Ireland; the 
other 1/6 is Northern Ireland, part of the United Kingdom. In 1986, the 
population was 3,541,000. The infant mortality rate is 8.8/1000; the life 
expectancy is 70.1 years for men and 75.6 years for women. Descriptions include 
geography, people and history, government, political conditions, economy, 
defense, foreign relations, and US-Irish relations. Ireland is still among the 
least developed countries in the European Community, with 2 serious economic 
problems: unemployment and public debt. Ireland has competent specialists in all 
fields of medicine and dentistry; community sanitation is generally good.

PMID: 12177978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Oct:1-4.

Comoros.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The archipelago of the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is composed 
of 4 prominent islands and several smaller satellite islands. They are situated 
at the north end of the Mozambique Channel and stretch crookedly from 670 km 
southeast of Tanzania to 320 km northwest of Madagascar. Each island has its own 
distinct topography, vegetation, and economic life. Described are such points as 
geography, people, government, political conditions, economy, foreign relations, 
defense, and US-Comorian relations. In 1986, the estimated population was 
64,000; the annual growth rate was 3%. Infant mortality rate is 92.3/1000; life 
expectancy is 48.8 years. Although for visitors no vaccinations are required, 
malaria is widespread; the use of prophylactics are used, such as chloroquine 
and fansider.

PMID: 12177979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jul:1-7.

Burundi.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Burundi has a population of 6 million (1987), with an annual growth rate of 
3%. Its ethnic groups include the Hutu (85%), Tutsi (14%), and Twa (1%). 62% of 
the population is Roman Catholic, while 32% adhere to traditional African 
religions. Education is not compulsory, and the literacy rate is only 30%. Life 
expectancy is 45 years, and the infant mortality rate is 122/1000 live births. 
Of the work force of 1.9 million, 93% are engaged in agriculture, 1.5% are in 
industry and commerce, 1.4% are in services, and another 4% are government 
employees. Burundi's gross domestic product was US$1.3 billion in 1986, with a 
3.3% annual growth rate and a per capita income of $239. Some monetization of 
the economy is occurring with the increase in coffee and tea production, but the 
population has increased to such an extent that a family's landholdings provide 
only marginal support. Soil exhaustion, soil erosion, and famine are continual 
problems. The government has begun to implement reforms of the mixed enterprises 
sector to increase efficiency and improve performance. The Republic of Burundi 
is a 1-party state that, at present, has no constitution as a result of the 
political turmoil that followed a 1987 coup d'etat. Apparently, however, there 
are no violations of basic rights and guarantees.

PMID: 12177980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jun:1-5.

Tonga.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Tonga is described, an archipelago directly south of Western Samoa. 
Included in the document are brief descriptions about such points as geography, 
people, history, type of government, political conditions, economy, foreign 
relations, defense, and US-Tongan relations. In 1987 the population was 98,689; 
the annual growth rate was 0.76%. The infant mortality rate is 40/1000; the life 
expectancy, 59 years. Tonga is free from most tropical diseases, including 
malaria. The capital, Nuku'alofa, has a modern hospital, but doctors often are 
in short supply.

PMID: 12177985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jun:1-6.

Solomon Islands.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Solomon Islands, which form an archipelago in the Southwest Pacific 
about 1900 km northeast of Australia, are described. Included are brief 
descriptions about such points as geography, people, history, type of 
government, political conditions, economy, and foreign relations. In 1987 the 
population was 301,180 (49% under age 14); the annual growth rate was 3.67%. The 
infant mortality rate is 46/1000; the life expectancy, 54 years. Health 
conditions in the Solomons generally are adequate, and the country does not 
suffer from serious endemic diseases other than malaria, in both the vivax and 
falsiparum strains. Hospitals and pharmacies are limited to population centers 
and missions.

PMID: 12177986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Aug:1-6.

Mauritius.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The country of Mauritius is an island about 805 km east of Madagascar in 
the Indian Ocean. Included in the document are brief descriptions and 
compilations of facts about such points as geography, people, history, type of 
government, political conditions, economy, foreign relations, defense, and 
US-Mauritian relations. In 1987, population stood at 1,017,23, annual growth 
rate, 0.83%. Mauritius' infant mortality rate is 23.7/1000; the life expectancy 
for men is 64.4 years and for women is 71.2 years. Local hospitals and 
pharmacies are adequate. The eradication of malaria during World War II led to a 
population explosion. The population density is among the world's highest, at 
1313 people per square mile. Degradation of the environment and drug trafficking 
and abuse are the country's most important socioeconomic problems. Government 
efforts to curb population growth have been very successful, with the growth 
rate falling below the population replacement level.

PMID: 12177988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jul:1-6.

Gabon.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The country of Gabon straddles the equator on the west coast of Africa. 
Included in the document are brief descriptions and compilations of facts about 
such points as geography, people, history, type of government, political 
conditions, economy, foreign relations, defense, and US-Gabonese relations. The 
population in 1986 was estimated at 1 million, and the annual growth rate was 
2.8%. Infant mortality rate is 159/1000. Life expectancy stands at 51 years. 
Hospitals and private clinics are available throughout most of the country for 
most common problems. Gabon's population declined between 1900 and 1940 as a 
result of a combination of historical and environmental factors. The country is 
one of the less densely inhabited in Africa, and a labor shortage is a major 
obstacle to its development.

PMID: 12177989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Mar:1-6.

Benin.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1988, Benin had a population of 4 million and an annual growth rate of 
3.6%. Life expectancy was 49 years, and infant mortality stood at 116/1000 live 
births. Primary school enrollment is about 65%, with 6 years of compulsory 
education, and the adult literacy rate is only 11%. Of the labor force of 1.9 
million, 72% are engaged in agriculture. Benin's gross domestic product was 
US$1497 million in 1987, with an annual growth rate of 7.1% and a per capita 
income of $374. Despite the Marxist-Leninist ideology of the Kerekou Government, 
many government-controlled sectors of the economy are being privatized and 
private foreign firms have been authorized to operate in Benin's transport 
sector. These changes have been necessitated by heavy losses suffered by 
nationalized industries and the worsening economic situation. Benin's economy, 
heavily dependent on regional trade and the export of cotton and crude oil, has 
been severely affected by ineffective government policies, regional recession, 
the collapse of world commodity prices, heavy external debt, balance of payment 
deficits, and very low foreign exchange reserves and liguidity. The 5-Year Plan 
(1983-88) emphasized the development of agriculture and the goal of becoming a 
supplier of basic foodstuffs to the region.

PMID: 12177990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Mar:1-7.

Costa Rica.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Republic of Costa Rica is one of the most stable and strongest 
countries in Central America. It is bordered by Nicaragua and Panama to the 
north and south and the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific ocean to the east and west 
and has a total land size slightly smaller than West Virginia. Costa Ricans 
enjoy a high life expectancy and literacy rate. As well, schools have an 
attendance rate of nearly 100%. The predominant ethnic group is white, and the 
predominant spoken language is Spanish. The work force is divided up as follows: 
32% agriculture, 25% industry and commerce, 38% services and government, and 5% 
finance and banking. The country's climate is tropical and subtropical, and the 
geography of Costa Rica is composed of rugged terrain, mountains, large forest 
areas, some lowlands and 3 volcanic mountain ranges. The great majority of Costa 
Ricans are of European descent with only small numbers of the indigenous Indian 
population surviving today. The government of Costa Rica is democratic, holding 
periodic elections. The electoral process is monitored by the Supreme Electoral 
Tribunal. Other bodies of government include the Supreme Court of Justice and 
the Legislative Assembly. The National Liberation Party has been in power since 
1948 and represents socialist ideals. Many factors such as: an influx of 
enlightened leaders and officials, flexible class lines, economic prosperity and 
the absence of military force have allowed Costa Rica to progress and maintain a 
stable economy and government amidst an unstable region. Costa Rica's relations 
with other countries and international organizations are excellent.

PMID: 12177991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Mar:1-8.

India.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1988, India's population stood at 817 million, 25% of which was 
concentrated in urban areas. The annual rate of population growth is 2.01%. Life 
expectancy is currently 56 years, and infant mortality is 90/1000 live births. 
Education is compulsory to the age of 14 years, but the adult literacy rate is 
only 36%. Of the work force of 300 million, 70% are engaged in agriculture, 19% 
are in industry and commerce, 8% work in the services and government sector, and 
3% are employed in transport and communications. India's gross national product 
currently stands at US$246 billion, with a real growth rate of 1.8% and a per 
capita income of $313. Although India is a federal republic, its central 
government has greater power in relation to its states than is the case in the 
US and there is a parliamentary system. Nonetheless, some states have been 
revitalizing traditional village councils and introducing grassroots democracy 
at the village level. A relatively sophisticated industrial base and pool of 
skilled labor have emerged since India achieved independence, although 
agriculture remains the crucial economic sector. There was a surge in 
agricultural production in the late 1960s and early 1970s as a result of the 
"green revolution" that made India largely self-sufficient in grain production 
through the use of hybrid seeds, irrigation, and fertilizer. However, failed 
monsoons and severe drought conditions have created fluctuations in the output 
of the agricultural sector in recent years. Gradual deregulation of industry and 
trade is providing increased incentives for foreign trade, and the Indian 
Government is encouraging collaborations that involve the transfer of high 
technology.

PMID: 12177992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jun:1-7.

Uruguay.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Uruguay, officially "The Oriental Republic of Uruguay," is a country of 
176,215 sq km with a temperate climate and a good water supply, which 
contributed to the emergence of stock raising as the economy's traditional base. 
1.31 million of the country's 2,940,200 people live in Montevideo, the capital 
and only large city. The population is 85%-95% white and 66% Roman Catholic. The 
dominant culture and official language is Spanish, although 25% of the people 
are of Italian origin. The annual population growth is only 0.5%, due to a low 
birth rate and large net outmigration. Infant mortality in 1986 was 27.1/1000, 
and life expectancy was 73 years. Literacy is 96%, due to an extensive system of 
public and private education. There is a large, urban middle class, which enjoys 
a high standard of living. 22% of the work force is in industry, 21% in 
government, 15% in commerce, and 28% in services. The 1986 gross domestic 
product was $6.2 billion, per capita $1701. The annual growth rate is now 6.3%, 
which is an upturn from the generally stagnant economic conditions of the last 
30 years. 1986 exports were $834 million (mainly meat, wool, hides, and leather 
goods); imports were $870 million. Inflation averages 76.4%, and 270 
pesos=$1.00. The major economic problem is managing the huge external debt of 
almost $5.4 billion. In 1987 Uruguay reached a debt rescheduling agreement with 
creditor banks and the International Monitary Fund, stretching out repayment 
dates through 2004. Exchange rates were allowed to float in 1982, and the 
country is trying to reduce the burden of the excessively large government 
sector through various privatization schemes. Uruguay has also been working with 
Argentina and Brazil toward integrating their economies. The only aboriginal 
inhabitants of Uruguay were the Charrua Indians. In 1811 Jose Gervasio Artigas 
led Uruguay's revolt against Spain, and total independence was achieved in 1828. 
Jose Batlle y Ordonez, who served as president from 1903 to 1907 and 1911 to 
1915, set the country on a path of economic and political reform, but infighting 
between the Blanco and Colorado political parties and periods of military rule 
lasted until the election of Julio Maria Sanguinetti and a new legislature in 
1984. The 1967 constitution institutionalizes a strong presidency, subject to 
legislative and judicial checks.

PMID: 12177996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jun:1-8.

Jordan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Jordan is a country of 91,000 sq km, only 11% of which is arable. The 1980 
population was 2.8 million, growing at 3.65% per year. Most of the people are of 
Arab stock, including between 1 and 1 1/4 million Palestinians. 95% of the 
people are Sunni Muslims. The national language is Arabic, and literacy is 71%. 
The infant mortality rate in 1984 was 50/1000, and life expectancy is 64 years. 
Suffrage is universal. The 1986 gross domestic product was $4.3 billion, per 
capita $1530; the growth rate was 2.6%. 80% of the people are employed in 
agriculture and 20% in industry. The major resources are phosphate and potash. 
The dinar is worth $0.35. Jordan's economy grew during the 1960s and 1970s, and 
it achieved the 10% growth rate called for in its 1st 5-year plan (1976-80). The 
2nd 5-year plan saw a slow-down in the economy, and the 3rd 5-year plan aims at 
a growth rate of only 5.1% and the creation of 97,000 new jobs. A major weakness 
of the economy is its dependence on money from abroad -- $0.5 billion from other 
Arab countries, wages of expatriate Jordanians working in the Gulf states, and 
$1.7 billion in US aid between 1952 and 1987. 1986 exports amounted to $732 
million, imports to $2.4 billion. Jordan was settled by Canaanites around 2000 
BC and was ruled successively by Egyptians, Assyrians, Persians, Greeks, Romans, 
Turks, and from 1919 to 1946 Britain. The independent Hashemite Kingdom, a 
constitutional monarchy, was founded in 1946. War with Israel ended with the 
establishment of the present official border in 1949, but Israel has occupied 
the West Bank of the Jordan since 1967, and the militant pro-Syrian Palestinian 
fedayeen maintained a guerrilla war within Jordan until 1973. In 1974 King 
Hussein recognized the Palestine Liberation Organization as the sole 
representative of the Palestinian people. However, by reconvening Parliament in 
1984 with representatives from the West Bank, the King contradicted his 
recognition of the claims of the Palestine Liberation Organization to represent 
all Palestinians. King Hussein has urged the Palestine Liberation Organization 
to accept UN Security Council resolutions 242 and 338 and renounce the use of 
violence. The November 1987 Arab League summit in Amman was a major victory for 
Hussein's diplomatic efforts.

PMID: 12177997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Jul:1-7.

Ethiopia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Ethiopia lies in the Horn of Africa at the southern end of the Red Sea. It 
has the distinction of being the oldest independent country in Africa. In 1936, 
fascist Italy invaded and occupied Ethiopia, but Ethiopia regained its 
independence 5 years later with the help of colonial British forces. In 1974, 
civil unrest led to a coup and the armed forces deposed Emperor Haile Selassie. 
Today, the socialist government has a national legislature and a new 
constitution, both of which were created 13 years after the revolution. This 
government is faced with armed separatist movements in the autonomous regions of 
Eritrea and Tigre and also with periodic border conflicts with Somali forces. 
These conflicts combined with a massive drought in 1983-1985 and another in 1987 
led to widespread famine in which an estimated 7.9 million people faced 
starvation and up to 1 million people died. Ethiopia has the potential for 
self-sufficiency in grains, livestock, vegetables, and fruits. Yet it's 
agriculture has been plagued not only with drought; but also soil degradation 
caused by overgrazing, deforestation, and high population density; dislocation 
due to the economy's rapid centralization; and government policies that do not 
provide incentives to producers. Still agriculture provides the basis of the 
nation's economy. Ethiopia has good relations with the Soviet Union, and the 
foreign policy of Ethiopia generally supports and parallels that of the USSR. 
After the revolution, the United States' relationship with Ethiopia has cooled 
because of differences over human rights. The US does assist with drought 
relief, however.

PMID: 12177998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Apr:1-7.

Trinidad and Tobago.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Trinidad and Tobago lie at the southernmost end of the Lesser Antilles 
chain in the Caribbean Sea. The population of the country mainly includes people 
of African and East Indian origin, all of whom speak English. Columbus visited 
Trinidad in 1498. Spain colonized the island in 1592 and ruled it until the 
British captured it in 1797. Tobago has been ruled by Holland, France, and 
England. In 1888, the 2 islands formed a single colony. In 1962, 1 year after 
the collapse of the autonomous Federation of the West Indies, Trinidad and 
Tobago gained full independence and joined the Commonwealth. IN 1976, the nation 
adopted a constitution establishing a republican government with a president as 
chief of state, a cabinet who exercises general direction and control of the 
government, and a prime minister who leads the cabinet and who is responsible to 
the bicameral parliament. The judicial authority lies with the Court of Appeal. 
The People's National Movement emerged in 1956 under Dr. Williams and remained 
in power from independence until 5 years after the death of Prime Minister 
Williams in 1981. Elected in 1986, A.N.R. Robinson of the National Alliance for 
Reconstruction is the Prime Minister. Petroleum products provide the basis for 
the nation's economy. This 2 island nation ranked 3rd highest per capita income 
in the Western Hemisphere in the early 1980s due to the 1974-1982 petroleum 
boom. Since 1982, however, the economy has been in a recession. The country 
maintains its most extensive ties with its Caribbean neighbors and major North 
American and European trading partners. It is a key member of the Caribbean 
Community and Common Market (CARICOM), and also a member of the UN and the 
Organization of American States. Trinidad and Tobago continue cordial diplomatic 
relations with the United States.

PMID: 12178003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Feb:1-11.

Japan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Japan consists of 3900 islands and lies off the east coast of Asia. Even 
though Japan is one of the most densely populated nations in the world, its 
growth rate has stabilized at .5%. 94% of all children go to senior high school 
and almost 90% finish. Responsibility for the sick, aged, and infirmed is 
changing from the family and private sector to government. Japan was founded in 
600 BC and its 1st capital was in Nara (710-1867). The Portuguese, the 1st 
Westerners to make contact with Japan in 1542, opened trade which lasted until 
the mid 17th century. US Navy Commodore Matthew Perry forced Japan to reopen in 
1854. Following wars with China and Russia in the late 1800s and early 1900s 
respectively, Japan took part in World Wars I and II. In between these wars 
Japan invaded Manchuria and China. The US dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima 
and Nagasaki and the Japanese surrendered in September, 1945 ending World War II 
(WWII). Following, WWII, the Allied Powers guided Japan's establishment as a 
nonthreatening nation and a democratic parliamentary government (a 
constitutional monarchy) with a limited defense force. Japan remains one of the 
most politically stable of all postwar democracies. The Liberal Democratic 
Party's Noboru Takeshita became prime minister in 1987. Japan has limited 
natural resources and only 19% of the land is arable. Japanese ingenuity and 
skill combine to produce one of the highest per hectare crop yields in the 
world. Japan is a major economic power, and its and the US economies are 
becoming more interdependent. Its exports, making up only 13% of the gross 
national product, mainly go to Canada and the US. Many in the US are concerned, 
however, with the trade deficit with Japan and are seeking ways to make trade 
more equitable. Japan wishes to maintain good relations with its Asian neighbors 
and other nations. The US and Japan enjoy a strong, productive relationship.

PMID: 12178004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Apr:1-7.

Indonesia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Indonesia, an archipelago of 13,500 islands, ranks 5th as the most populous 
nation in the world. It has 175 million people, 105 million of which live on the 
island of Java alone. Indonesia has many distinct cultural and linguistic 
groups. Islam almost wholly replaced Hindu by the end of the 16th century, after 
arriving in the 12th century. Today 88% of the people are Muslim, while the rest 
includes Christians, Hindus, Buddhists, and others. The constitution guarantees 
religious freedom. Indonesia gained independence from the Netherlands in 1949. 
Indonesia's 1st president, Sukarno, led the rebellion leading to independence 
and remained in power from 1949-1967. After aligning with Asian communist 
countries and establishing an authoritarian regime in the early 1960s, the 
people rebelled, attempted a coup and, in 1967, the People's,s Consultative 
Assembly named Soeharto as president. He continues to be Indonesia's president 
and the dominant government and political figure. The constitution provides 
limited separation of executive, legislative, and judicial power. During the 
1970s, the strong economy was based on high oil revenues and an industrial 
policy which protected domestic industries. Beginning in the 1980s, however, 
lower energy earnings assisted by low inflation, a downward float against the 
dollar, and the government eliminating regulatory obstacles turned the economic 
tide. Even though Indonesia has a larger unrescheduled external debt than any 
other developing nation, the government is dealing successfully with servicing 
this debt. Foreign interests participate in the oil and minerals sectors. 
Indonesia acts on its free and active foreign policy by playing a prominent role 
in Asian affairs, but avoiding involvement in conflicts among major powers. 
Indonesia is on friendly terms with its neighbors, and the military does not 
advocate developing the capability to project its power. The US and Indonesia 
carry on cordial diplomatic and trade relations. Additionally, the US provides 
economic and some military assistance to Indonesia.

PMID: 12178006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Apr:1-8.

Yugoslavia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Yugoslavia lies along the east coast of the Adriatic Sea opposite Italy. 
The South Slav groups and 17 minority groups joined in 1918 to form this nation 
with the greatest ethnic and religious diversity in Eastern Europe. In 1948, due 
to displeasure with Yugoslav leader's, Tito, insistence on independence, Stalin 
expelled Yugoslavia from Cominform. The US and its Western allies therefore 
contributed economic and military assistance to help Yugoslavia remain 
independent. The federal government consists of the executive, legislative, and 
judicial branches. Yugoslavia continues to follow a pragmatic Marxist policy, 
unlike other Marxist countries. For example, certain basic rights are recognized 
and protected, citizens may travel abroad freely, churches are open, and private 
property rights are respected, e.g. 84% of all farmland is privately owned. This 
moderated policy also guides the nation to establish friendly relations with 
most countries, regardless of sociopolitical systems. Even though only political 
party is allowed to operate, the League of Communists, it permits open 
expressions of differences on some major policy issues, unlike the Soviet style 
1 party system of the recent past. In the 1950s, Yugoslavia switched from a 
highly centralized economic system to a decentralized, more market oriented 
system. In addition, during the mid 1960s, the federal government handed 
economic and political authority over to the 6 republics and 2 autonomous 
provinces. Rapid inflation, significant unemployment, and severe 
balance-of-payment and debt pressures plague the nation, however. Yugoslavia 
tries to maintain a balance in trade relations with Western nations, the 
socialist bloc, and with developing countries. The US is Yugoslavia's 4th 
leading trading partner. US policy on Yugoslavia is based on strong and 
continuing support for Yugoslavia's independence, unity, and territorial 
integrity and respect for Yugoslavia's nonalignment.

PMID: 12178007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Dec:1-11.

Egypt.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Egypt is directed to the following: 
geography; the people; history; government and political conditions; the 
economy; defense; foreign relations; and relations between Egypt and the US. The 
population totaled 50.5 million in 1986 with an annual growth rate of 2.8%. The 
infant mortality rate is 102/1000 (1986), and life expectancy is 58.3 years. 
Located in the northeastern corner of Africa, Egypt has a land area of about 1 
million square kilometers and is bounded by the Mediterranean Sea, Libya, Sudan, 
the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aqaba, and Israel. Egypt is the most populous country 
in the Arab world. Egyptians are a fairly homogenous people of Hamitic origin. 
Mediterranean and Arab influences appear in the north, and there is some mixing 
in the south with the Nubians of northern Sudan. Egypt has been a unified state 
for over 5000 years, and archeological evidence indicates that a developed 
Egyptian society has existed for considerably longer. The constitution of Egypt 
provides for a strong executive with authority vested in an elected president 
who can appoint 1 or more vice presidents, a prime minister, and a cabinet. 
Egypt's legislative body has 458 members -- 448 popularly elected and 10 
appointed by the president. Power is concentrated in the hands of the president 
and the National Democratic Party's majority in the People's Assembly, but 
opposition parties organize, publish their views, and represent their followers 
at various levels in the political system. The process of gradual political 
liberalization begun by Sadat has continued under Mubarak. In fiscal year 1987 
the gross domestic product (GDP) reached about US$30 billion. Agriculture and 
services each contribute about 1/3 of GDP; the remainder comes from industry, 
petroleum, mining, electricity, and construction. At this time, the Egyptian 
economy faces several challenges. In 1986 the government of Egypt initiated a 
major review of economic policy and initiated an economic reform program aimed 
at simplifying the exchange rate system and introducing a greater reliance on 
market forces and an expanded role for the private sector. President Mubarak has 
reaffirmed and built upon Sadat's policies, placing heavy emphasis on negotiated 
solutions to the Arab-Israeli dispute, peace with Israel, and close ties with 
the US. In fiscal year 1987 US economic and military aid to Egypt reached a 
level of $2305 million. The aid is designed to assist Egypt's economic 
development and support US-Egyptian cooperation.

PMID: 12178008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Apr:1-11.

Cyprus.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Cyprus is a small island of 9251 sq. km. situated in the eastern 
Mediterranean just west of Syria. The 670,000 Cypriots include 77% 
Greek-speaking Orthodox Christians and 18% Turkish-speaking Muslims. Both 
languages, as well as English, are used. 66% attend secondary school, but higher 
education must be obtained abroad. The growth rate is 1.3%; infant mortality is 
12/1000; life expectancy is 72 (males) and 77 years (female); literacy is 99%. 
The economy is based on services and tourism (47%). light industry (16%), and 
agriculture, mainly vegetables and fruits (9%). Cyprus has been inhabited since 
pre-historic times, and featured a Hellenic culture from 700 B.C., the 1st of a 
series of foreign colonies and conquests. Cyprus became independent of Britain 
in 1960. A stable government, including both the majority Greek Cypriot 
republican government and the northern Turkish government based on a French 
system, has yet to be formed.

PMID: 12178009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-6.

Congo.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes on the People's Republic of the Congo include geography, 
demography, government, economy, history, and foreign relations. The Congo 
extends from the western coast of central Africa in a northeastern direction 
along the north shore of the Congo River for 800 miles, and consists of tropical 
coastal plain, river valley, river basin flood plains, and central plateau. Much 
of the country is forested, and only 6% of the economy derives from farming. The 
population of 2 million is growing at 3.4% annually. There are 15 main ethnic 
groups. 80% attend school; literacy is estimated at 50-80%; infant mortality 
rate is 108/1000, and life expectancy is 61 years. 60% of the people live in 
urbanized areas, chiefly Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. Others live in remote 
villages, usually without road access. 25% are subsistence farmers. 50% are 
active in the monetary economy, mainly commerce, government, and light industry 
such as wood processing. The chief income commodities are offshore oil and 
timber. The government is a centralized people's republic based on Marxism, 
consisting of a president, a central committee, appointed regional 
commissioners, and an appointed supreme court. Congo adheres to a nonaligned 
foreign policy, and has relations with all communist nations and many Western 
countries.

PMID: 12178010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Nov:1-8.

Denmark.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Denmark is predominantly a low, flat land with such resources as oil, gas 
and arable land. The Danish are comprised of Scandinavian, Eskimo, Faroese and 
German peoples, and the languages spoken include Danish, Farese, Greenlandic and 
some German. The Danish enjoy a literacy rate of nearly 100%, and school 
attendance is 100%. The Danes are a homogeneous Gothic-Germanic people who have 
lived in Denmark since the prehistoric period. The Evangelical Lutheran Church 
is supported by 97% of the population; however, other religions are present. The 
government of Denmark is a constitutional monarchy with an executive, 
legislative and judicial branch. The political life is democratic, and 
compromise is a very important component of the political life of Denmark as 
many parties and factions must work together. Support for cultural growth comes 
from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs which subsidizes projects, training other 
cultural activities. The infant mortality rate is 8.2/1000. Life expectancy for 
men is 71.5 and for women 77.5.

PMID: 12178011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Oct:1-8.

Argentina.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Argentina has been a melting pot for both East and West European citizens. 
In more recent years, the country has seen immigration from neighboring Latin 
America countries. The indigenous population of Indians is found on the 
northern, north-western and southern borders. The large percentage (80) of the 
immigrant population lives in urban areas with more than 1/3 of the population 
living in Buenos Aires alone. Over 90% of all Argentines are Roman Catholic. 
Argentina holds one of the highest literacy rates of Latin America at 92%. 
Although Spanish is the official language of the country, English, German, 
Italian and French are also spoken. Argentina is considered rich in both human 
and natural resources, but political conflict, human rights abuses and waivering 
economic performance have prevented the country from achieving its full 
potential. The country exports agricultural products, technical products and 
energy products. The Argentine population growth rate (1.5%) is one of the 
lowest in Latin Americas Life expectancy is 70.2 years. The infant mortality 
rate is 26.8/1000.

PMID: 12178012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Nov:1-4.

Hong Kong.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The 5.7 million residents of Hong Kong are primarily Chinese (98%), and 
while Cantonese is prevalently spoken, the official language is English. The 
larger part of the work force is concentrated in the area of industry and 
commerce (71%) with most of the remaining work force concentrated in the area of 
services (28%). The literacy rate is 90%. Hong Kong is ruled by a governor 
appointed by the British monarch. Hong Kong is a free market open to trade and 
commerce; the GDP (1987) is 45 billion dollars. In 1997, Hong Kong will return 
to Chinese rule, but it will remain a Special Administrative Region of China and 
will keep its political, economic and judicial systems. The infant mortality 
rate is 9.9/1000 and life expectancy is 76 years. The median age has increased 
from 20.7 in 1970 to 26 today.

PMID: 12178013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Dec:1-8.

Cote d'Ivoire.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Republic on the Ivory Coast in Africa is profiled in a Dec. 1987 
publication of the U.S. State Department. The geography of the country is 
described as generally flat, with dense forests in the west, scrub savannah 
stretching in a narrow strip along the coast midway to Ghana, and a tropical 
forest and a savannah lying inland. A brief history of the country prior to and 
during its experience as a French colony is also included. The country's 1986 
population of 10.2 million contains more than 60 ethnic groups; literacy rate is 
35%, life expectancy is 52 years, and the 1983 infant mortality rate was 
121/1,000. Per capita income in 1986 was $921. Petroleum is a natural resource 
