but thus far its exploitation has been financially disappointing. Agriculture 
produces 25% of the country's gross domestic product, while the food, 
processing, and textile industries produce 20%. Political conditions have been 
relatively stable since the Ivory Coast gained its independence from France in 
1960. The publication also describes the country's government structure, 
political conditions, national defense system, and foreign relations policy. It 
includes general information for travelers to the country and lists principal 
government officials and U.S. officials to the country as of date of the 
publication. A bibliography and map are also provided.

PMID: 12178016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Jul:1-8.

Saudi Arabia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The country of Saudi Arabia contains 830,000 square miles, mostly desert 
with mountains in the southwest. It has population of 11 million and an annual 
growth rate of 3.5%. The population is 90% Arab and the rest Afro-Asian; the 
religion is Islam, and the language is Arabic. There is an 80% literacy rate, an 
infant mortality rate of 78/1000, and life expectancy of 60 years. There is a 
4.8 million person work force, of which 25% is Saudi and 75% foreign. Until 
recently most of the people were nomadic and seminomadic; but with rapid 
economic growth, urbanization has progressed quickly and 90% are now settled, 
with some cities having high population densities (2,000/square mile). The 
country is very conservative due to the adherence to strict Islamic law. Oil was 
discovered in 1903 but large production was not introduced until after World War 
II. The country is now the world's largest oil exporter and 50% of the 
governments funds come from it. The country has developed rapidly in the 1970's 
and 1980's and present plans are for consolidation of the country's defenses, 
more government efficiency. Greater private sector employment is sought for 
Saudis, with reduction of foreign workers and more regional development The US 
and Saudis have mutual interest is stability in the region and have worked 
closely for peaceful development.

PMID: 12178017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Nov:1-7.

Seychelles.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Seychelles is a country with an area of 171 square miles and a tropical 
climate. The terrain consists of granite islands with narrow coastal littorals 
and ranges of hills and mountains up to 3000 feet. The population is 67,000 and 
the annual growth rate is 1%. Creoles constitute the ethnic population, a 
mixture of Asians, Africans and Europeans. The literacy rate is 80%. Infant 
mortality is 18.4/1000 and the life expectancy is 65 for males and 71 for 
females. The work force is 39.9% government, agriculture and fishing 11.9%, 
construction 17%, and tourism, services, and commerce 31.2%. The government is a 
single party republic with a president and peoples assembly with 23 elected and 
some appointed members. The economy has a gross national product of 175 million, 
with a growth rate of 6%. The largest natural resource is fish and the main 
industries are tourism, re-exports and maritime service. Major products are 
tuna, copra and cinnamon. Most of the Seychelles are descendants of French 
settlers and African slaves with a small number (1.1%) Indian and Chinese.

PMID: 12178018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Sep:1-7.

Honduras.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Honduras is a country with an area of 68,000 square miles, with 
considerable mountainous terrain, and a subtropical but variable climate. It has 
a population of 4.4 million people and an annual growth rate of 3.1%. The ethnic 
make up is 90% mestizo, a mixture of Indian and European, with others consisting 
of Arab, African, oriental, and Indians. The main religion is Catholic with a 
fast growing Protestant minority, and the language is Spanish. Infant mortality 
is 60/1000 and life expectancy is 63 years. The work force is mainly 
agricultural 63%, services 20%, manufacturing 9%, and construction 3%. The 
government is a democratic constitutional republic established in 1821. The 
budget is $1,334 million with 7% used for defense, and the gross national 
product is $4.4 billion with an annual growth rate of 4.5%. Despite being poor 
and underdeveloped, natural resources include arable land, hydro- electric 
power, and considerable forest, marine, and mineral resources. Agriculture 
products include coffee, bananas, citrus fruit, corn, beans, and livestock. The 
major industries are textiles, cement, wood products, cigars and foodstuffs. 
Unemployment is over 15% and underemployment is estimated over 40% with the 
literacy rate at only 60%. In the last few years with US aid the economy has 
grown 3.8% a year assisted by mining, construction and the service sectors. 
Honduras must undertake major economic reforms to gain longterm growth and 
stability since it has large fiscal and trade deficits, a large public 
bureaucracy, poorly run state enterprises and overvalued exchange rate.

PMID: 12178019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Nov:1-6.

Cape Verde.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Republic of Cape Verde has an area of 1,5557 square miles, a population 
of 364,207, and a growth rate of 2.02%/year. Rugged volcanic islands comprise 
the terrain and the climate is dry and temperate. The ethnic groups consist of 
Creole, a mix of African and Portuguese, African, and European. The religions 
are Roman Catholic and Protestant, and the languages are Portuguese and Crioulo. 
The infant mortality rate is 11/100 and life expectancy is 61 years. The 
government consists of a republic with a president, a council of ministers, and 
a national assembly. The gross national product is $193.5 million with a 6.8% 
growth rate. They have natural resources of salt, pozzolana, and limestone; 
agricultural products are bananas, corn, beans, sugarcane, coffee, fruits, 
vegetables, and livestock. The main industries are fishing, salt, construction, 
building, materials ship repair, clothing, shoes, furniture, metal products and 
beverages. In 1462 Portuguese settled in Cape Verde, in 1951 the colony became a 
province, and in 1975 Cape Verde became an independent republic. The government 
is neutral and seeks cooperative relations from many states. The US has had a 
long and cordial relation with Cape Verde, and assists in economic and social 
development.

PMID: 12178021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Dec:1-4.

[South] Yemen.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Yemen has an area of 112,000 square miles, the terrain is mountainous in 
the interior, and has a flat and sandy coast. The climate is extremely hot with 
little rainfall. 2.2 million is the population level with an annual growth rate 
of 2.6%. The ethnic background is Arab, the religion is Islam and the language 
is Arabic. 50 years is the average life expectancy and the infant mortality rate 
is 142/1000. The labor force is 42% agriculture, fisheries, industry and 
commerce 31%, and services 27%. A republic formed in 1967, the government has a 
constitution approved in 1978. They have 1 party, the Yemeni Socialist Party 
with a executive presidium, a supreme people's council and a federal high court. 
Natural resources include oil and fish, and agricultural products are cotton, 
hides, skins, and coffee. In 1962 the Federation of South Arabia was formed and 
a treaty was signed in 1959 for independence by 1968. There was much turmoil 
from 1967 until 1986 when Haydar Bakr Al-Attus gained power, and there are still 
strong internal rivalries. The economy has been concentrated in the city of 
Aden, and with the loss of tourist trade in 1967, and closing of the British 
base, it has declined by more than 20% by 1968. Attempts are being made to build 
roads, fisheries, villages, a power plant, and agriculture and irrigation 
projects.

PMID: 12178022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Dec:1-7.

Sri Lanka.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Sri Lanka has an area of 25,332 square miles and the terrain consists of 
coastal plains, with hills and mountains in the south central area. Population 
stands at 16.8 million with a growth rate of 1.6% and ethnic groups include 
Sinhalese 74%, Tamils 18%, Muslims 7%, and other 1%. The religions are Buddhism, 
Hinduism, Islam, and Christianity. Languages include Sinhala, Tamil and English, 
and the literacy rate is 87%. 68.9 years is the average life expectancy and the 
infant mortality rate is 31/1000. The government is a republic with a president, 
parliament and a court system. The gross national product is $7.2 billion with a 
2.7% growth rate and an inflation rate of 14%. Natural resources include 
limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, and phosphate. Agricultural products 
include tea, rubber, coconuts, rice, and spices. Industry consists of textiles 
and garments, chemicals and petroleum products, food processing, wood and wood 
products, basic metal products, paper and paper products. The British ejected 
the Dutch in 1796 and set up the crown colony of Ceylon. In 1931 the colony was 
allowed limited self rule, and in 1948 it became independent. It is a less 
developed country with a annual average per capita income of $430. In 1977 the 
government undertook reforms and eliminated price and foreign exchange controls, 
reduced consumer subsidies and promoted private sector development. The results 
showed a more than 5% growth rate during the decade and tourism and foreign 
investment increased. Recently the growth has slowed partly because of a 
communal conflict, a trade imbalance and serious structural imbalances.

PMID: 12178023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Dec:1-8.

Mali.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Mali has an area of 474,764 square miles, the capital is Bamako with a 
population of 800,000 and the terrain is desert and savanna. The climate ranges 
from semitropical to arid and the total population is 7.6 million with a growth 
rate of 2.7%. The ethnic groups are Mande 50%, Peul 17%, Songhai 6%, Yuareg and 
Moor 5%, and the religions are Islam 90%, indigenous 9%, and Christian 1%. The 
languages are French and Bambara and the life expectancy is 47 years, with an 
infant mortality rate of 173/1,000. The labor force is 72% agriculture, industry 
and commerce 12%, and services 16%. The government is a republic with a 
constitution, president, national assembly and a supreme court. Agricultural 
products include millet, sorghum, corn, rice, livestock, sugar, cotton, and 
peanuts. They export cotton and cotton product, animals, fish, tannery products, 
and peanuts. In 1958 Soudan and Senegal joined together to form the Mali 
Federation which collapsed in 1960. Soudan then proclaimed itself the republic 
of Mali, which lasted until 1967. A military coup took over in 1968 and civilian 
rule did not return until 1974 when the constitution was approved. Mali is 1 of 
the 10 poorest nations in the world because it has not developed its mineral 
resources and agriculture exports. Mali receives much foreign aid from nations 
around the world including China, US, and the Soviet Union.

PMID: 12178024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Aug:1-8.

Zaire.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Zaire is on the following: geography; the 
people; history, government and political conditions, foreign relations, and 
relations between Zaire and the US. The Republic of Zaire, formerly the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, lies on the Equator, with 1/3 of the country 
to the north and 2/3 to the south. In 1982 Zaire's population was estimated to 
be 32 million with an annual growth rate of 3.1%. The infant mortality rate is 
130/1000 with a life expectancy of 51 years. As many as 250 ethnic groups have 
been distinguished and named. It is believed that Zaire was populated as early 
as 10,000 years ago. In 1482, the Portuguese navigator Diego Cao arrived at the 
mouth of the Congo River. Early seafarers stayed near the mouth of the river and 
named the area Congo. The area remained virtually unknown to most Europeans 
until Henry Morton Stanley journeyed from East Africa across the continent to 
the mouth of the Congo River between 1874-77. In a 1958 speech at Brazzaville, 
General Charles de Gaulle gave French African colonies a choice between complete 
and partial independence. After that, the Belgians could no longer suppress 
Congolese independence movements. Independence was achieved June 30, 1960. A key 
political issue in Zaire following independence was whether the country was to 
have a federal system of government or unitary system with a strong central 
government. From 1960-66, a modified federal system gave a degree of political 
power to the provincial governments. The country has a highly centralized 
1-party government. The Popular Movement of the Revolution (MPR), founded by 
President Mobutu in 1967, has been designated successively the country's 
"first," "supreme," and then, by virtue of the August 1974 constitution, its 
"only" political institution. Politically, 1978-87 has been a relatively calm 
period for Zaire, and security has been better than at almost any time since 
independence. At independence, Zaire had one of the most highly developed and 
diversified economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Agriculture is the base of the 
economy, but mining generates much revenue. Zaire's extractive industries have 
provided the main impetus for economic development. During the 1970s, Zaire was 
hit hard by the worldwide decline in prices for copper and its other main 
exports. Despite recent high copper prices, formidable obstacles to economic 
recovery remain. Zaire pursues a policy of moderate nonalignment between East 
and West and plays an important role in international and regional forums. US 
bilateral economic and military assistance to Zaire from independence through 
fiscal year 1987 was $1,145.6 million.

PMID: 12178026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Aug:1-8.

Malaysia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In this discussion of Malaysia, attention is directed to the following: 
geography; the people; history; government; political conditions; the economy; 
defense; foreign relations; and relations between the US and Malaysia. In 1987 
Malaysia's population was estimated to be 16.5 million with an annual growth 
rate of 2.6%. The infant mortality rate is 25/1000 with a life expectancy of 66 
years. Peninsular Malaysia borders Thailand in the north and is separated from 
Singapore in the south by the narrow Johore Strait. About 50% of the area is 
covered by tropical jungle. The population distribution is uneven, with some 
13.5 of the 16.5 million residents concentrated on the Peninsular Malaysia 
lowlands. The Malays, the largest population group, make up 49%. Nearly 1/3 of 
the Malaysians are Chinese, and Malaysians of Indian descent comprise slightly 
over 9% of the population. The early Buddhist Malay kingdom of Srivijaya, based 
at what currently is Palembang, Sumatra, dominated much of the Malay Peninsula 
from the 9th to the 13th centuries A.D. Full European control over the 
sultanates of the Malay Peninsula, Sabah, and Sarawak was not achieved until the 
latter half of the 19th century. During British control, a well-ordered system 
of public administration was created, public services were extended, and 
large-scale rubber and tin production was developed. Colonial rule was 
interrupted by the Japanese invasion and occupation from 1942-45. Malaysia 
achieved independence on August 31, 1957, and is a constitutional monarchy, 
nominally headed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, or paramount ruler. The ruler 
also is the leader of the Islamic faith in Malaysia. Executive power is vested 
in the Cabinet, led by the prime minister. The Malaysian legal system is based 
on English common law. The currently ruling Barisan Nasional, formed in 1973, 
includes 13 parties, among them the chief components of the former Alliance, a 
coalition of community-based parties. Malaysia's economic record is 1 of the 
most successful in Asia. From 1965-84, the economy experienced a period of broad 
diversification and sustained rapid growth averaging 7%-8%. Per capita gross 
national product reached nearly $2000 in 1984. Malaysia's long period of high 
growth came to an abrupt halt in 1985-86 with the marked drop in world commodity 
prices, but recovery began late in 1986 and gained strength during 1987. 
Improved commodity prices and strong growth in exports of manufactured goods 
have led the recovery. US support for Malaysia has been demonstrated by 
cooperation in many areas, including narcotics enforcement, cultural exchanges, 
and a Fulbright educational exchange program.

PMID: 12178028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Jun:1-10.

Panama.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Panama has an area of 29,762 square miles, with a population of 2,274 
million. The terrain is mountainous and the climate is tropical. The ethnic 
groups consist of mestizo 79% West Indian 14%, white 10%, and Indian 6%. The 
religions are Roman Catholic 93% and Protestant 6% and the official language is 
Spanish with 14% using English. There is 6 years of mandatory primary schooling 
and the literacy rate is 87.1%. The infant mortality rate is 25.6/1000 and life 
expectancy is 72.1 years. The work force of 770,000 has 26.6% in agriculture, 
27.9% in government, 16% in commerce, 10.5% manufacturing, 5.3% in finance, 
canal 2.4% and utilities 1.4%. The government was a military dictatorship 
established in 1903 and a constitution was created in 1972 and revised in 1983. 
A president and 2 vice presidents, a legislative assembly with 67 members and a 
supreme court now make up the government. There are 9 provinces and 1 Indian 
territory and the major political parties are the Panamenista, Democratic 
Revolutionary, Christian Democratic, Labor, Republican, Nationalist Republican 
Liberal Movement and many other small parties. The economy has a gross national 
product of over 5 billion dollars and has a growth rate of .47% in 1987, with an 
inflation rate of 1.1% in 1985. National resources consist of timber, seafood, 
and copper ore. Agriculture products are bananas, corn, sugar, rice, coffee, 
shrimp, timber, vegetables, and cattle. There is 24% agricultural land, 20% 
forest land and industries include food and drink processing, metal working, 
petroleum products, chemicals, paper, printing, mining, sugar refining, 
clothing, furniture, and construction. Exports consist of bananas 21%, shrimp 
21%, coffee 9%, sugar 6%, clothing 4%, and other 39%. During the colonial period 
Panama was ruled by Spain and won independence in 1821 and joined Columbia. In 
1903 Panama proclaimed independence and made a treaty with the US to build the 
canal.

PMID: 12178029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Backgr Notes Ser. 1991 Jul:1-4.

Senegal.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes and statistics on Senegal are provided in the document. 
196,840 sq. km. of diversified terrain are encompassed by the country, with a 
1990 population of 7 million growing at the annual rate of 3%. The work force 
totals 3 million. Senegal claims a population comprised of 5 ethnic groups and 
various others, 3 religious beliefs, and speaking 5 languages. No period of 
education is listed as compulsory, with the country overall experiencing 28% 
literacy. The infant mortality rate is 78/1,000, while life expectancy is 48 
years. 1989 GDP was $5 billion, and was growing at the rate of 6%. 1988 per 
capita GDP was $630, with a 1989 inflation rate of 2%. Agriculture accounts for 
22% of GDP, industry for 24%; 1990 international trade deficit totalled $209 
million. Additional data are provided on Senegal's people, government, economy, 
international affiliations, defense, history, political conditions, principal 
government officials, foreign relations, and bilateral relations with the United 
States. Senegal suffers from a resource-poor economy vulnerable to environmental 
and international commodity price fluctuations. The country depends heavily on 
international donor assistance. 70% of the labor force is engaged in farming, 
with peanuts accounting for 1/2 of agricultural output. Agroindustry investment 
is planned to bring Senegal further along toward food self-sufficiency. Fishing, 
phosphate production, and tourism are all areas for economic growth. Economic 
reforms along with favorable weather in recent years have resulted in real GDP 
growth. Foreign investment is welcomed in Senegal, as demonstrated by revised 
terms set forth in the investment code of 1987.

PMID: 12178030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Backgr Notes Ser. 1991 Apr:1-8.

South Korea.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes and statistics on South Korea are provided in the 
document. 98,500 sq. km. of diversified terrain are encompassed by the country, 
with a 1988 population of 43 million growing at the annual rate of 1%. The work 
force totals 17 million. South Korea claims a population comprised of Koreans 
with a small Chinese minority, 4 religious beliefs, and native Korean-speakers. 
6 years of education are compulsory, with the country overall enjoying 98% 
literacy. The infant mortality rate is 6/1,000, while life expectancy is 67-73 
years. 1990 estimated GNP was $224 billion, and was growing at the estimated 
rate of 9%. Per capita GNP was $5,500, while a 9% increase was reported in the 
consumer price index for 1990. Agriculture accounts for 9% of GNP, mining and 
manufacturing for 35%; 1990 international trade deficit totalled $5 billion. 
Additional data are provided on South Korea's people, government, economy, 
international affiliations, history, political conditions, principal government 
officials, foreign relations, and bilateral relations with the United States. 
South Korea has enjoyed remarkable economic growth over the past 25 years, and 
has grown to become a middle-ranking industrial power. Korea's bilateral trade 
surpluses with the United States of nearly $10 billion in 1987 and 1988 declined 
decisively in 1989 due to a variety of factors. Surplus remained, however, 
approximately $4 billion in 1990. Whether or not these declines are indicative 
of structural, lasting trends is not yet discernible. Long-term growth prospects 
remain good, Korea's ability to adapt to a more open democratic system playing 
an important role.

PMID: 12178031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Backgr Notes Ser. 1991 Jul:1-4.

Burundi.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes and statistics on Burundi are provided in the document. 
27,834 sq. km. of hilly terrain are encompassed by the country, with a 1990 
population of 5.5 million growing at the annual rate of 3.2%. The work force 
total 1.9 million. Burundi claims a population comprised of 3 ethnic groups, 
adhering to 4 religions, and speaking 3 different languages. 6 years of 
education are compulsory, with the country overall enjoying 40% literacy. The 
infant mortality rate is 111/1,000, while life expectancy is 51 years. 1988 GDP 
was $1 billion, and was shrinking at the rate of 0.18%. Per capita income was 
$203, while 1989 figures reported 7% inflation. Agriculture accounts for 60% of 
GNP, industry for 14%; 1988 international trade deficit totalled $72 million. 
Additional data are provided on Burundi's people, government, economy, 
international affiliations, history, political conditions, principal government 
officials, foreign relations, and bilateral relations with the United States. 
Per capita food production has stagnated or declined since the mid-1980s, and 
the country remains heavily dependent upon foreign aid. Coffee earnings 
typically provide up to 90% of Burundi's export earnings, 40% of which went 
toward external debt in 1989. Long-term economic strategy centers upon improving 
the quality of its coffee, while encouraging production of tea, cotton, and some 
manufactured goods.

PMID: 12178032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Apr:1-6.

Guatemala.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Guatemala's area comprises 108,780 square km or 42,000 square miles. The 
population numbered 9 million in 1990. Ethnic groups include mixed 
Spanish-Indian races. Spanish and 23 Indian languages are used. Literacy is 52%, 
the infant mortality rate is 73/1000, and life expectancy is 60 years but only 
44 years for Indians. The government is constitutional democratic republic. The 
total gross domestic product (GDP) was estimated at $10 billion in 1990. US 
economic assistance amounted to $118 million in FY 1990. Protestantism and 
traditional Indian religions make up 30% of practiced religion. Since the defeat 
of the flourishing Mayan civilization by the Spanish in 1523-24 the country's 
history has been turbulent with a series of dictatorships after independence in 
1821. In its recent history Vinicio Cerezo won the 1985 election overwhelmingly, 
but renewed violence, a failing economy, strikes, corruption, and an inability 
to deal with infant mortality, illiteracy, and the low quality of health care 
marked its final years. In 1990 Jorge Serrano was elected in the 1st democratic 
transition. Negotiations were started with the Guatemalan National Revolutionary 
Unit to end the violence and respect human rights. An agreement on dialogue was 
signed in Oslo with the hope of ending one of the oldest insurgencies in the 
world. The economy started to improve after 1986, and far-reaching reforms could 
induce rapid growth in coming years especially in agricultural exports. The 
private sector generates 90% of the GDP. Foreign development assistance has 
increased: the US has contributed $800 million since 1986. Impediments to faster 
economic growth are posed by illiteracy and low levels of education, 
insufficient capital market, and limitations of the infrastructure.

PMID: 12178033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Mar:1-5.

Cyprus.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Cyprus has an area of 9251 square km or 3572 square miles with a population 
of 735,000 of whom 565,000 were Greeks and 170,000 Turks in 1991. Literacy is 
99%, infant mortality is 10/1000, and life expectancy is 73 years for males and 
78 for females. The history of the island goes back to BC 3700. It has been 
divided since the Turkish military invasion of 1974 that followed a coup attempt 
by the Greek military junta which wanted to oust President Makarios for 
abandonment of the union with Greece. There have been UN sponsored negotiations 
between the 2 communities to establish a new constitution of a federal, 
bicommunal, and bizonal basis. The economy has recovered since the mid-1970s 
when 230,000 refugees were jobless. Cyprus has a custom's union agreement with 
the European Community, and applied for full membership in 1990. In the Greek 
zone light manufacturing and services grew rapidly in 1990. More than 1.5 
million tourists visited Cyprus in 1990. However, agricultural production and 
exports (potatoes and citrus) decreased in 1990. Tourism also declined, while 
the budget deficit increased, but there are more favorable economic forecasts 
for 1992. Turkey provides a large amount of development assistance, and takes a 
large share of imports from the Turkish sector that fared much worse 
economically than the Greek zone.

PMID: 12178034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Mar:1-8.

Panama.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Panama's territory is 77,381 square km or 29,762 square miles with a 
population of 2.4 million of whom 70% are mestizos or mixed Spanish and Indian. 
Literacy is 87%, infant mortality is 22/1000, and life expectancy is 72 years. 
Panama was part of the Spanish empire from 1538 to 1821. In 1903 Panama declared 
its independence from Colombia, and afterwards signed a treaty with the US to 
build a canal 10 miles wide. The existing 52-mile lock canal was completed in 
1914. From the 1960s pressure mounted to renegotiate the treaty that was 
eventually accomplished in 1977. In 1989 the Noriega regime called elections and 
lost, but it did not accept the results, and continued repression until it was 
ousted by a 1989 US military action. Noriega surrendered and was indicted for 
drug trafficking. The economy was in disrepair after mismanagement and US 
sanctions. During 1990-91 the economy started to recover with the return of 
capital to banks, increase of exports and construction, and the decrease of 
government deficit and unemployment. The gross domestic product grew 3.45 in 
1990 and 9.3% in 1991 with a low level of inflation. Government policies were 
proposed to stimulate foreign private investment, improve market conditions, and 
reduce tariffs and price controls. In 1992 the Endara government signed 
agreements with international financial institutions on credit that entailed 
tax, social security, and public investment reforms. The unemployment rate 
decreased from 35% in 1989 to 16% by 1992. The revenues from the canal have to 
be sustained, therefore the Panama Canal Commission approved a $200-million 
project to widen it over the next 20 years.

PMID: 12178035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 May:1-5.

Honduras.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Honduras has an area of 112,088 square km or 43,277 square miles with a 
population of 4.8 million in 1991 of whom 90% are mestizos. Literacy is 68%, the 
infant mortality rate is 60/1000, and life expectancy is 63 years. After 
independence from Spain in 1821 the Central American Federation collapsed in 
1938. There have been 300 internal rebellions since independence. With an 
inadequate economic infrastructure, sociopolitical integration has been fragile. 
In 1982 the Suazo government relied on US support to face the economic 
recession, the threat posed by the Marxist government in Nicaragua, and civil 
war in El Salvador. USAID sponsored ambitious social and economic projects. A 
peaceful transfer of power between civilian presidents occurred in 1986 despite 
an electoral quirk. In 1990 President Callejas introduced reforms to reduce the 
deficit, and to stimulate investments and exports. After initial higher 
inflation and low growth in 1990 and 1991, modest progress is forecast for 1992 
and 1993. The powerful military has been kept in check, and human rights have 
been better protected. The country is among the poorest in Latin America with 
underemployment of 30-40% and a mostly agricultural economy. The 1990 reforms of 
deregulation of prices, liberalization of trade, less protectionism, and export 
orientation is expected to produce longterm benefits not only in agriculture but 
also in manufacturing. The US is the primary trading partner, and the main 
direct foreign investor (fruits, refining, and mining). The slash-and-burn 
agricultural cultivation has created environmental destruction, and as a sign of 
public awareness the armed forces have engaged in reforestation and fighting 
forest fires.

PMID: 12178036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Jun:1-4.

Cameroon.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: The US profile of Cameroon indicates brief statistics on the population, 
geography, government, and economy and brief descriptions of the population, the 
history, government, political conditions, the economy, foreign relations, 
defense, and relations with the US. Principal government and US officials are 
furnished. The 1991 estimated population of Cameroon was 11.7 million of which 
60% is rural. There are 200 different tribes who speak many African languages 
and dialects. The French and English languages both have official status. 
Muslims live in the north and Christians in the south. 80% live in the formerly 
French east. The growth rate is 3%. There is 65% literacy. Infant mortality is 
20%. 70% are agricultural workers, 13% industrial and commercial, and 17% other. 
The government is an independent republic with an executive and legislative 
branch. Independence was achieved in 1960. There is 1 ruling party. Traditional 
courts administer the laws. Traditional rulers are treated as administrative 
adjuncts. Suffrage is universal adult. The central government budget is 1.4 
billion of which 8.7% is for defense. There are 10 provinces and 4 major cities. 
The seaport city Douala is the largest at 1.5 million. Gross domestic product 
(GDP) is $12.5 billion with an annual growth rate of 4.3% and an inflation rate 
of 2%. Growth has been variable since 1988 and reached a low of 2.4% in 1988-89. 
Oil, natural gas, bauxite, iron core, and timber are natural resources. 27% of 
the GDP is in agricultural products (cocoa, coffee, cotton, fishing, and 
forestry). 13% of the GDP is manufacturing and 24% is industry. Exports are 
valued at $2.9 billion and imports at $2.2 billion. Major markets are France, 
Netherlands, and the US. Imports include intermediate goods, capital goods, fuel 
and lubricants, foodstuffs, beverages, and tobacco. Early inhabitants were the 
Pygmies, followed later by Bantu speakers, and Muslim Fulani. Political 
consolidation was achieved in 1970 after a period of terrorism. Economic growth 
was 8% until world prices in Cameroon's major exports of petroleum, coffee, and 
cocoa collapsed in 1986. The country is agriculturally self-sufficient. US 
relations with Cameroon are excellent.

PMID: 12178037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 May:1-6.

Chile.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: The background notes on Chile provide a statistical summary of the 
population, geography, government, and the economy, and more descriptive text on 
the history, population, government, economy, defense, and foreign relations. In 
brief, Chile has 13.3 million Spanish Indian (Mestizos), European, and Indian 
inhabitants and an annual growth rate of 1.6%. 96% are literate. Infant 
mortality is 18/1000. 34% of the population are involved in industry and 
commerce, 30% in services, 19% in agriculture and forestry and fishing, 7% in 
construction, and 2% in mining. The major city is Santiago. The government, 
which gained independence in 1810, is a republic with executive, legislative, 
and judicial branches. There are 12 regions. There are 6 major political 
parties. Suffrage is universal at 18 years. Gross domestic product (GDP) is 
$29.2 billion. The annual growth rate is 5% and inflation is 19%. Copper, 
timber, fish, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals, and molybdenum are its 
natural resources. Agricultural products are 9% of GDP and include wheat, 
potatoes, corn, sugar beets, onions, beans, fruits, and livestock. Industry is 
21% of GDP and includes mineral refining, metal manufacturing, food and fish 
processing, paper and wood products, and finished textiles. $8.3 billion is the 
value of exports and $7 billion of imports. Export markets are in Japan, the US, 
Germany, Brazil, and the United Kingdom. Chile received $3.5 billion in economic 
aid between 1949-85, but little in recent years. 83% live in urban centers, 
principally around Santiago. Congressional representation is made on the basis 
of elections by a unique binomial majority system. Principal government 
officials are identified. Chile has a diversified free market economy and is 
almost self-sufficient in food production. The US is a primary trading partner. 
49% of Chile's exports are minerals. Chile maintains diplomatic relations with 
70 countries, however, relations are strained with Argentina and Bolivia. 
Relations with the US improved when human rights difficulties were eased.

PMID: 12178038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Jun:1-8.

Pakistan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Pakistan's background notes which profile the population, geography, 
government, and the economy contain a capsule of selected country statistics and 
a descriptive text. Pakistan has 117 million people distributed at 134/sq km 
with a growth rate of 3%. The major cities are Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Karachi, 
Lahore, and Faisalabad. Ethnic groups include the Punjabi, Sindhi, Pathan, 
Baluch, and Huhajirs. 97% are Muslim. Urdu is the official language, but 65% 
speak Punjabi, 11% Sindhi, and 24% other languages. 26% are literate. Infant 
mortality is 109/1000. 54% are involved in agriculture, 33% services, and 13% in 
industry. A parliamentary democracy was established in 1947 with an executive, 
legislative, and judicial branch of government. The Islamic Democratic Alliance 
is the most important national party. Voting rights are for those 21 years. 
Seats are reserved for non-Muslims. There are 4 political subdivisions. Gross 
national product (GNP) was $43 billion in 1990. The economic growth rate is 5% 
and 2%/capita. The natural resources are arable land, natural gas, petroleum, 
coal, iron ore, and hydropower potential. Agricultural products include wheat, 
cotton, rice, and sugarcane. Industry includes textiles, fertilizer, steel 
products, food processing, and oil and gas products. Major trade partners are 
Japan, the US, the United Kingdom, and Saudi Arabia. Economic aid was $36 
billion between 1947-85, of which the US contributed 3 billion between 1981-87. 
Major donors are id entified. The population concentration is around Karachi. 
Political unrest has prevailed for 26 years and includes the creation of 
Bangladesh in 1970 from East Pakistan. Pakistan is considered to have the 
resources and entrepreneurial skills to develop economically rapidly. Defense 
strength is characterized as the world's 11th largest. Pakistan is nonaligned, 
but a member of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the UN. Relations 
with India have been difficult. There is a desire for a stable Afghanistan. 
There are close relations with China and security and economic interests in the 
Persian Gulf. Relations with the US are wide and bilateral.

PMID: 12178039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 May:1-6.

Tanzania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Background notes on Tanzania present a profile of nationality, population 
count of 26 million, growth rate of 3.5%, ethnic groups (130), religions (33% 
Muslim, 33% animist, 33% Christian), languages, education (86% primary), 
literacy (79%), health (infant mortality of 106/1000), and work force (90% 
agriculture). Geographic data are given for the area, cities, terrain, and 
climate. The Tanzanian government is a republic with executive, legislative, and 
judicial branches of government. There is 1 political party and everyone 18 
years is eligible to vote. 4% of the gross domestic product (GDP) ($5.9 billion) 
is devoted to defense. Economic growth is 4.3%/year and person income is 
$240/capita. Natural resources, agriculture, industry, and trade are identified. 
$400 million has been received between 1970-92 in US economic aid. The 1992 
official exchange rate is 300 Tanzanian shillings to the US dollar. Descriptive 
text is given for the population, the history of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, the 
government, principal government officials (President, 1st Vice President [VP], 
2nd VP and President of Zanzibar, Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs Minister, 
Ambassador to the US, Ambassador to the UN, and US embassy address and phone 
number), political conditions, the economy, the defense, foreign relations, and 
US-Tanzanian relations. Principal US officials are identified for the 
Ambassador, Deputy Chief of Mission, USAID Director, and Public Affairs Officer; 
the US embassy address is given also. The population is 80% rural with a density 
of 1/sq km in arid areas, 51/sq km on the mainland, and 134/sq km on Zanzibar. 
The new capital will be Dodoma in central Tanzania. Most residents are of Bantu 
stock; nomadic groups are the Masai and the Luo. 1% are non-Africans. Government 
has a strong central executive. The current President is Ali Hassan Mwinyi. The 
Revolutionary Party is in the primary policymaking body and provides all 
government leaders. The government seeks to foster the Kiswahili concept of 
"ujamaa" or a kind of communal cooperation. 47% of GDP comes from agriculture. 
There is little foreign investment. Diversification of export crops is needed. 
Foreign policy is nonaligned, and friendly to the US.

PMID: 12178040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Mar:1-6.

ASEAN.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: ASEAN is a group of counties encompassing 3 million sq. km with 333 million 
inhabitants, of whom approximately 65% are literate. The group was formed August 
8, 1967, and includes Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, 
and Thailand. Malay, Indonesian, Filipino, Thai, Chinese, and English are spoken 
by Malay, Thai, Chinese, Indian, and other ethnic groups who variously are of 
the Islamic, Buddhist, Christian, Taoist, and Hindu faiths. Life expectancy is 
approximately 85 years, with the marked exception of Indonesia. The gross 
domestic product is $303 billion, growing at a rate of 7.6%. Per capita income 
is $950. The group's natural resources include petroleum, natural gas, timber, 
tin, nickel, copper, iron, bauxite, and other minerals. The agricultural 
products rice, rubber, cassava, sugar, coffee, corn, pineapple, bananas, 
coconuts, and palm oil, as well as electronics, petroleum, textiles, minerals, 
chemicals, food processing, wood products, fabricated steel, and ships are areas 
of economic production. Machinery and other capital goods, chemicals, oil, and 
food are imported, and office machinery and electronics, petroleum, textiles, 
telecommunications equipment, natural rubber, processed seafood and fruits, wood 
products, tin, palm oil, sugar, and coffee are exported. In-depth information is 
also given on the people and history, intraregional and international 
cooperation, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, and 
relations with the US.

PMID: 12178041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 May:1-5.

Chad.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Chad is a country of 1,284,634 sq. km with 5.5 million inhabitants. 
Independence was gained on August 11, 1960. The terrain consists of desert, a 
mountainous North, large arid central plain, and fertile lowlands in the extreme 
South, with a climate that is generally very hot and dry to the North, and warm 
and more humid to the South. French, Arabic, and 200 indigenous languages are 
spoken by 200 distinct ethnic groups who variously are of Muslim, Christian, and 
traditional faith. Life expectancy is 46 years. The gross domestic product is $1 
billion, and per capita income is $200. The country's natural resources include 
petroleum, natron, and kaolin. The agricultural products cotton, gum arabic, 
livestock, fish, peanuts, millet, sorghum, rice, sweet potatoes, cassava, and 
dates, as well as industrial processing and natron mining are areas of economic 
production. Petroleum, machinery, cement, motor vehicles, and used clothing are 
imported, and cotton, livestock, and gum arabic are exported. In-depth 
information is also given on the people and history, government and principal 
officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, 
relations with the US, and names of principal US officials in the country.

PMID: 12178042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Jun:1-4.

Costa Rica.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Costa Rica is a country of 51,032 sq. km with 3 million inhabitants, of 
whom 93% are literate. Independence was gained on September 15, 1821. The 
terrain consists of eastern and western coastal plains separated by a rugged, 
central massif, with a climate ranging from tropical to subtropical. Spanish and 
a Jamaican dialect of English are spoken by European, black, and indigenous 
ethnic groups who are overwhelmingly of Roman Catholic faith. Life expectancy is 
approximately 70 years. The gross domestic product is $5.6 billion, growing at a 
rate of 1%. Per capita income is $1810. Hydroelectric power is a natural 
resource of the country. Food processing, textiles, construction materials, and 
fertilizer, as well as banana, coffee, beef, sugarcane, and grain agriculture 
are areas of economic production. Manufactured goods, machinery, transportation 
equipment, chemicals, fuel, food, and fertilizer are imported, and bananas, 
coffee, beef, sugarcane, and grain are exported. In-depth information is also 
given on the people and history, government and principal officials, political 
conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, relations with the US, and 
names of principal US officials in the country.

PMID: 12178043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Apr:1-4.

Qatar.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Qatar is a country of 11,437 sq. km with 400,000 inhabitants, of whom 65% 
are literate. Independence was gained on September 3, 1971. The terrain consists 
of flat, barren desert, with a hot and dry climate. Arabic and English are 
spoken by Arab, South Asian, and Iranian ethnic groups who are largely of the 
Islamic faith. Life expectancy is 58 years. The gross domestic product is $5.2 
billion, growing at a rate of 4%. Per capita income is $13,000. The country's 
natural resources include petroleum, natural gas, and fish. Oil production, 
refining, natural gas development, fishing, cement, power/desalinization plants, 
petrochemicals, steel, and fertilizers are areas of economic production. 
Industrial and consumer goods are imported and oil is exported. In-depth 
information is also given on the people and history, government and principal 
officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, 
relations with the US, and names of principal US officials in the country.

PMID: 12178044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Jul:1-7.

Mauritania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Mauritania with an area of 1,085,760 sq. km (419,212 sq. miles) is slightly 
larger than Texas and New Mexico combined. Its estimated population in 1990 was 
2 million with an annual growth rate of 2.9% and an adult rate of 17%. The 
infant mortality rate is 125/1000 live births; and life expectancy is 46 years. 
It gained independence on November 28, 1960. Most of its inhabitants are either 
nomadic herders or settled farmers who live within a subsistence economy. 
Livestock raising has traditionally generated about 1/4 of the gross domestic 
product and involved almost 1/3 of the total working population, but since 1983 
livestock has been reduced by drought. Between 1981 and 1991 the US provided 
about 170,000 metric tons of food aid, in addition to bilateral and regional 
economic assistance. From 1983 through 1989, exports of fish products were 
Mauritania's leading source of foreign revenue. Participation in the Western 
Sahara war from 1975 to 1978 proved an expensive disaster, and in 1992 the 
International Monetary fund and the World Bank negotiated with the government to 
reform the economy. Between 1983 and 1991, the US provided $67.3 million in 
development assistance. Following the 1989 rupture between Mauritania and 
Senegal that resulted in the deportation of tens of thousands of Mauritanian 
citizens, relations between the US and Mauritania reached a low in the spring of 
1991, and the USAID mission in Mauritania halted its activities. Since late 1991 
Mauritania has sought to restore stable relations with the US however, all US 
assistance is suspended until a judicial resolution of the human rights 
situation is found.

PMID: 12178046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Jan:1-4.

Uruguay.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Uruguay is a country of 176,000 sq. km with 3 million inhabitants, of whom 
96% are literate. Independence was gained on August 25, 1825. The terrain 
consists of plains and low hills, with a climate which is temperate. Spanish is 
spoken by White, Mestizo, and Black ethnic groups who are variously 
non-professing or of Roman Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, and other faiths. Life 
expectancy ranges over 69-75 years. GDP is $11.3 billion, growing at a rate of 
4%. Per capita income is $3600. The country's natural resources include arable 
land, hydroelectric potential, gold, granite, and marble. Beef, wool, grains, 
fruits, vegetables, meat processing, would and hides, textiles, shoes, handbags, 
leather apparel, tires, cement, fishing, and petroleum refining are areas of 
economic production. Fuels, chemical, machinery, and metals are imported, and 
meat, wool, hides, leather and wool products, fish, rice and furs are exported. 
In-depth information is also given on the people and history, government and 
principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign 
relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. officials in the 
country.

PMID: 12178048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Dec:1-7.

Hungary.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Hungary is a country of 93,000 sq km with 10 million inhabitants, of whom 
99% are literate. Its constitution was written on August 20m 1949, substantially 
revised in 1989, and amended in 1990. The terrain is flat with low mountains in 
the North and Northeast and north of Lake Balaton, with a climate which is 
temperate. Primarily Magyar is spoken by the 92% population of Magyar, though 
Gypsies, Germans, Slovaks, Jews, southern Slavs, and other ethnic groups are 
also resident. Inhabitants are variously of Roman Catholic, Calvinist, Lutheran, 
and other faiths. Life expectancy is 67-75 years. GDP is $35 billion, declining 
at a rate of 3%. Per capita income is $3300. The country's natural resources 
include fertile land, bauxite, and brown coal. Meat, corn, wheat, potatoes, 
sugar beets, vegetables, fruits, sunflower seeds, machinery, buses and other 
transportation equipment; precision and measuring equipment; textiles; medical 
instruments; and pharmaceutical are areas of economic production. Energy, raw 
materials, machinery, and transportation equipment are imported, and machinery, 
buses, and other transportation equipment; medical instruments; pharmaceutical; 
textiles; other consumer manufactures; and agricultural products are exported. 
In-depth information is also given on the people and history, government and 
principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign 
relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. officials in the 
country.

PMID: 12178049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Feb:1-8.

Cuba.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Cuba is a country of 110,860 sq.km with 10.8 million inhabitants, of whom 
99% are literate. Independence was gained on May 20, 1902. The terrain consists 
of flat or gently rolling plains, hills, and mountains up to 2000 meters in the 
Southeast, with a climate which is tropical, yet moderated by trade winds. 
Spanish is spoken by the Spanish-African mixed population. Life expectancy 
ranges over 74-77 years. Gross social product is $21 billion, declining at a 
rate of -20%. Per capita income is $1500. The country's natural resources 
include nickel, cobalt, iron ore, copper, manganese, salt, and timber. Sugar, 
fruits, tobacco, coffee, rice, beans, meat, vegetables, food processing, oil 
refining, cement, electric power, light consumer, and industrial products are 
areas of economic production. Capital goods, industrial raw materials, food, 
petroleum, and consumer goods are imported, and sugar and its by-products, 
petroleum, nickel, seafood, citrus, tobacco products and rum are exported. 
Indepth information is also given on the people and history, government and 
principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign 
relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. officials in the 
country.

PMID: 12178050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Dec:1-7.

Bangladesh.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Bangladesh is a country of 143,998 sq.km with 116 million inhabitants, of 
whom 47-22% for males and females, respectively, are literate. Independence was 
gained on 1971. The terrain consists of mainly flat, alluvial plain, with hills 
in the Southeast, with a climate which is semi-tropical with monsoons. Bangla 
and English are spoken by Bengali, nonBengali Muslims, and other ethnic groups 
who are of mainly Muslim and Hindu faiths. Life expectancy ranges over 52-54 
years. GDP is $23 billion, growing at a rate of 3.6%. Per capita income is $198. 
The country's natural resources include natural gas and water. Rice, jute, tea, 
sugar, wheat, jute goods, garments, frozen shrimp, textiles, fertilizer, 
leather, metal reprocessing, pharmaceutical, and newspring are areas of economic 
production. Capital goods, foodgrains, petroleum, consumer goods, fertilizer, 
chemicals, vegetable oils, and textiles are imported, and ready-made garments, 
jute goods, leather, frozen fish, shrimp, raw jute, and tea are exported. 
In-depth information is also given on the people and history, government and 
principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign 
relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. officials in the country.

PMID: 12178051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Jan:1-6.

Mexico.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: The background notes on Mexico provide text and recent statistical 
information on the geography, population, government, economy, and foreign 
relations, specifically the North American Free Trade Agreement with US. The 
1992 population is estimated at 89 million of which 60% are mestizo 
(Indian-Spanish), 30% are American Indian, 9% are Caucasian, and 1% are other. 
90% are Roman Catholic. There are 8 years of compulsory education. Infant 
mortality is 30/1000 live births. Life expectancy for males is 68 years and 76 
years for females. The labor force is comprised of 30% in services, 24% in 
agriculture and fishing, 19% in manufacturing, 13% in commerce, 7% in 
construction, 4% in transportation and communication, and .4% in mining. There 
are 31 states and a federal district. Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita 
was $3200 in 1991. Military expenditures were .5% of GDP in 1991. The average 
inflation rate is 19%. Mexico City with 20 million is the largest urban center 
in the world. In recent years, the economy has been restructured with market 
oriented reforms; the result has been a growth of GDP of 3.6% in 1991 from 2% in 
1987. Dependence on oil exports has decreased. There has been privatization and 
deregulation of state-owned companies. Subsidies to inefficient companies have 
been stopped. Tariff rates were reduced. The financial debt has been reduced and 
turned into a surplus of .8% in 1992. Mexico's foreign debt has been reduced 
from its high in 1987 of $107 billion. Agricultural reforms have been ongoing 
for 50 years. Land was redistributed, but standards of living and productivity 
have improved only slightly. Rural land tenure regulations have been changed, 
