and other economic reforms are expected. Mexico engages in ad hoc international 
groups and is selective about membership in international organizations.

PMID: 12178052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Backgr Notes Ser. 1992 Dec:1-4.

The Gambia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: The Gambia is a country of 11,300 sq. km. with 855,000 inhabitants. 
Independence was gained on February 18, 1965. The terrain consists of plains and 
low hills, with a climate which is tropical, yet cooler and dry from November to 
May. English, Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, and other indigenous languages are spoken 
by more than 5 ethnic groups who variously are of Muslim, Christian, and animist 
faith. Life expectancy is 47-51 years. GDP is 331 billion, growing at a rate of 
2%. Per capita income is 37 3. The country's natural resources potentially 
include oil. Peanuts, rice, millet, sorghum, fish, palm kernels, vegetables, 
livestock, forestry, construction, brewing, soft drinks, machinery assembly, 
wood and metal working, and clothing are areas of economic production. Textiles, 
foodstuffs, machinery, and transportation equipment are imported, and 
re-exported goods, peanuts, palm kernels, fish, and other domestic products are 
exported. In-depth information is also given on the people and history, 
government and principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, 
foreign relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. 
officials in the country.

PMID: 12178054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Jul:1-8.

Nicaragua.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Nicaragua is a country of 130,000 sq km with 4 million inhabitants, of whom 
30-49% are literate. Independence was gained in 1821. There are Mestizo, White, 
Black, and Indian ethnic groups who tend to be of Roman Catholic faith. Life 
expectancy is 63 years. GDP is $1.7 billion, growing at a rate of 0.8%. Per 
capita income is $413. The country's natural resource include gold, silver, 
copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, and fish. Cash crops, production crops, 
processed food, beverages, textiles, chemicals and petroleum, metal products, 
commerce, government, transportation, banking, energy, and water are areas of 
economic production. Petroleum, agricultural supplies, and manufactured goods 
are imported, and coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas, beef, gold, and shellfish are 
exported. In-depth information is also given on the people and history, 
government and principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense. 
foreign relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. 
officials in the country.

PMID: 12178055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Jan:1-4.

Antigua and Barbuda.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Antigua and Barbuda is a country of 2 islands of, respectively, 281 and 161 
sq km with 62,600 and 1300 inhabitants, of whom 90% are literate. Independence 
was gained on November 1, 1981. The terrain is generally low-lying with a 
tropical maritime climate. English and local dialects are spoken by inhabitants 
of mainly African origin and some of British, Portuguese, Lebanese, and Syrian 
origin, ethnic groups who are of mainly Anglican faith. Evangelical Protestant 
and Roman Catholic minorities are also found. Life expectancy is 70 years. GDP 
is $411 million, growing at a rate of 2.6%. Per capita income is $600. The 
country's natural resources are negligible. Cotton, livestock, vegetables, 
tourism, transport, construction, and manufacturing are areas of economic 
production. $353 million of goods are imported, and $32 million are exported. 
In-depth information is also given on the people and history, government and 
principal officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign 
relations, relations with the U.S., and names of principal U.S. officials in the 
country.

PMID: 12178056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Backgr Notes Ser. 1993 Apr:1-4.

Swaziland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs. Office of Public 
Communication.

PIP: Swaziland is a country of 17,363 sq km with 860,000 inhabitants, of whom 
64% are literate. Independence was gained on September 6, 1968. The terrain 
consists of mountains and plateaus, with a climate variously near-temperature, 
subtropical, and semi-arid. English and SiSwati are spoken by Swazi, Zulu, and 
non-African ethnic groups, who variously hold Christian and indigenous beliefs. 
Life expectancy ranges between 53 and 60 years, GDP is $704 million, growing at 
a rate of 7%. Per capita income is $900. The country's natural resources include 
asbestos, coal, diamonds, timber, hydroelectric power, and clay. Sugar cane, 
corn, citrus, fruit, livestock, wood, pineapple, cotton, tobacco, and light 
manufactured and processed goods are areas of economic production. Motor 
vehicles, heavy machinery, fuel and lubricants, foodstuffs, and clothing are 
imported, and sugar, soft drink concentrate, woodpulp and wood products, 
manufactures, canned fruit, asbestos, and meat products are exported. In-depth 
information is also given on the people and history, government and principal 
officials, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, 
relations with the US, and names of US officials in the country.

PMID: 12178057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Backgr Notes Ser. 1982 Jan:1-4.

Trinidad and Tobago.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Trinidad and Tobago is on the following: the 
people; history; geography; government and political conditions; defense; the 
economy; foreign relations; and relations between the U.S. and Trinidad and 
Tobago. In 1980 the population totaled 1,067,000. The annual growth rate in 1979 
was 1.1%. The infant mortality rate (1978) was 286/1000, and life expectancy is 
64 years for males and 68 years for females. Most of the people of Trinidad and 
Tobago are of East Indian or African origin with mixed, European, Syrian, 
Chinese, and other elements rounding out the population. Trinidad was discovered 
by Columbus in 1498 on his 3rd voyage to the Western Hemisphere. Tobago has most 
likely changed hands more often than any other West Indian island. Trinidad and 
Tobago were merged in 1888 to form a single colony, and in 1958 the United 
Kingdom established the autonomous Federation of the West Indies, comprising 
Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Barbados, and the Leeward and Windward Islands. 
Trinidad and Tobago are the southernmost islands of the Lesser Antilles chain in 
the Caribbean. In 1976 Trinidad adopted a new constitution under which it became 
a republic and severed its formal links to the British Crown. The president is 
elected by the Parliament. The 1st real political party in Trinidad and Tobago 
with a continuing organization and program--the People's National 
Movement--emerged in 1956 and has controlled the government since that date. 
Trinidad and Tobago's defense force includes 1 regiment and a coast guard. The 
economy has shown considerable growth during the past 5 years, due primarily to 
the strong performance of the petroleum sector, the main source of export 
receipts and government revenues. Trinidad and Tobago is a nonaligned country 
which maintains friendly relations with the U.S.

PMID: 12178058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Apr:1-7.

Bulgaria.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Bulgaria focuses on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government; political conditions; the economy (economic reforms 
and plans, industry and agriculture, and trade); foreign relations; and 
relations between the US and Bulgaria. The population in December 1980 numbered 
8,876,652; the annual growth rate was 3.6/1000. The infant mortality rate was 
20.2/1000 with life expectancy 69 years for men and 74 years for women. 
Bulgaria, which is located on the Balkan Peninsula, extends from the western 
shore of the Black Sea to Yugoslavia in the west. In the north, the Danube River 
is a common boundary with Romania. Greece and European Turkey lie to the south 
and southeast. Population density is 1 of the lowest in Eastern Europe, about 80 
persons per square kilometer. More than half of the population lives in urban 
areas, compared to 1/3 in 1956. Bulgarian is the primary language spoken. 
Religious activity is discouraged by the Bulgarian communists. Education is free 
and compulsory to age 15. A fully independent Bulgarian kingdom was proclaimed 
September 22, 1908. Communist rule began September 9, 1944, when a communist 
dominated coalition, called the Fatherland Front, seized power from a coalition 
government formed to arrange an armistice with the Allies. The constitution 
stipulates that the Communist Party is the leading force in society and in the 
state. It also provides for a unicameral 400 member National Assembly. The 
Bulgarian Communist Party (BCP) controls all phases of Bulgarian life. Party 
organization parallels the government structure with a central apparatus at 
Sofia and subordinate organizations in provinces and communes. At the end of 
World War 2, Bulgaria was among the least industrialized European countries. 
Bulgaria's national income grew rapidly in the 1960s and early 1970s, but 
increased by only 5.7% in 1980, down from 6.5% in 1979. A major factor in 
Bulgaria's growth rate has been Soviet assistance. The economic system is 
patterned on the Soviet model. Bulgaria's largest industrial sector is heavy 
industry which accounts for more than 25% of total industrial production. 
Despite a lower priority, agriculture is a key component of the economy. In 1982 
foreign trade was about $22.5 billion. The overriding goal of the foreign policy 
is to both strengthen and expand Bulgaria's alliance with the USSR and other 
fraternal socialist countries. US policy toward Bulgaria since the 1975 Helsinki 
Final Act seeks to promote constructive, reciprocal relationships through 
negotiations and through increased exchanges.

PMID: 12178059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Feb:1-4.

Malta.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Malta's population stood at 330,000 in 1983, with an annual growth rate of 
0.5%. The infant mortality rate is 13.4/1000, and life expectancy is 73 years. 
11 years of education is compulsory and the school attendance rate is 96%; the 
literacy rate is 90%. Malta's work force of 121,025 is distributed as follows: 
agriculture and fisheries, 4.5%; industry and commerce, 34.9%; services, 30.2%; 
and government, 22.3%. The gross national product (GNP) was estimated at US$1.04 
billion in 1983 (per capita GNP, US$3162), with an annual growth rate of 3.5%. 
Malta lacks natural resources and a solid agricultural base, so tourism and 
trade are important. The government has taken steps to launch new export 
industries and build a more self-reliant economy. A goal is to attract 
export-oriented foreign direct investment that will provide needed technology 
and skills.

PMID: 12178060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Sep:1-4.

Rwanda.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Rwanda's population characteristics, history, government, political 
situation, economy, and foreign relations were briefly discribed. Rwanda, a 
small African country, covers an area of 10,160 square miles and is situated 
between Zaire, Uganda, Burundi, and Tanzania. During the 1400s, Tutsi cattle 
breeders moved into the region and turned the Hutu farmers, the original 
occupants of the region, into serfs. The Tutsi maintained their dominant 
position until 1959. Rwanda was a German protectorate between 1899-1916 and a 
territory under the administration of Belgium following World War I. During the 
1950s, the Tutsi resisted efforts by the Belgians to democratize the country, 
and in 1959, the Party of the Hutu Emancipation Movement (PARMEHUTU) overthrew 
the Tutsi monarchy. The PARMEHUTU leader, Gregoire Kayibanda was selected by the 
elected unicameral National Assembly to head the government following the 
granting of independence to Rwanda in 1962. In 1973 growing government 
inefficiency and corruption led to the takeover of the country by the military 
leader, Major General Juvenal Habyarimana, who in 1975 formed the National 
Revolutionary Movement for Development. Although civilian rule is being 
gradually restored, Habyarimana, who is now the elected president of the 
country, retains considerable power. In addition to the president, the country 
is run by a 17-member cabinet and a 70-member elected legislative body, the 
National Development Council. The current goverment is strongly committed to the 
developing the country's economy. Rwanda is a poor and overpopulated country, 
and its economy is based mainly on subsistence level farming. 93% of the work 
force is engaged in agriculture. 35% of the gross national product (GNP) is 
derived from agriculture, and the main agricultural products are tea, pyrethrum, 
and cinchona. Small-scale industries account for another 21.6% of the GNP. The 
government is working to increase the country's energy sources and to attract 
foreign investments. The country has some mineral desposits which contribute 
toward the country's foreign exchange. In 1984, the GNP was US$1.7 billion, the 
annual economic growth rate was 2.9%, the per capita GNP was US$270, and exports 
and imports were US$147.9 million and US$204.9 million respectively. Rwanda's 
population size is 6.3 million, and 85% of the population is Hutu and 14% is 
Tutsi. The annual population growth rate is 3.7%. The dominant religion is 
Christianity. The literacy rate is 37%, schooling is compulsory for 8 years, the 
infant mortality rate is 102/1000 live births, and life expectancy is 48 years. 
In 1981, the government established the National Population Office to develop 
and implement a national family planning policy. Rwanda follows a moderate and 
nonaligned course in foreign matters and maintains friendly relations with the 
US. In 1984 the US provided Rwanda with US$6.2 million in development assistance 
and US$1.5 million in food assistance. Most US aid is directed toward 
agricultural and health development.

PMID: 12178061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Aug:1-8.

Sudan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Sudan's population characteristics, geographical features, history, 
political conditions, and foreign relations are profiled. The 1984 population of 
Sudan has been estimated at 21.1 million, with an estimated annual growth rate 
of 3.0%. Approximately 25% of the Sudanese population resides in urban areas. 
Major religions are Islam, indigenous beliefs (in southern Sudan), and 
Christianity. The official language is Arabic, although English and tribal 
languages are also spoken. Education is compulsory for 9 years, but the 
attendance rate is only 48%. The infant mortality rate is 118.0/1000 live 
births, and life expectancy is 47 years. 78.4% of the work force is engaged in 
agriculture, 9.8% in industry and commerce, and 6% in government. The estimated 
gross national product for 1981-83 was $27.36 billion, with an estimated annual 
growth rate of 2.7% in 1982-83. Per capit income was approximately $361 in 1982, 
with an average annual inflation rate of 20-30%. Sudan's population is composed 
of 2 distinct cultures, Arab and black African, and effective collaboration 
between them poses one of the nation's principal internal problems. The 5 
northern regions cover almost 2/3 of Sudan and include most urban centers. Most 
of the 13 million Sudanese who live in this area are Arabic-speaking Muslims of 
several distinct tribal groups. The southern region has a population of about 
5.5 million and a predominantly rural, subsistence economy. The south also 
contains many tribal groups and uses many more languages than the north. Sudan's 
primary resources are agricultural. Although the country is trying to diversify 
its cash crops, cotton and cottonseed account for more than 50% of export 
earnings. Another large export crop is gum arabic. Grain sorghum is the 
principal food crop, and wheat is grown for domestic consumption. Livestock 
production has vast potential and many animals, particularly camels and sheep, 
are exported to other Arab countries. The inadequate transportation system is a 
major hindrance to economic development.

PMID: 12178062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 May:1-6.

Laos.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Laos is on geography, the people, history, the 
government, the economy, foreign relations, and relations between the US and 
Laos. In 1985, the population of Laos totaled 3.6 million with an annual growth 
rate of 2.9%. The infant mortality rate is 126/1000; life expectancy is 46 
years. A landlocked country on the Indochinese Peninsula, Laos is dominated by 
dense jungle and rugged mountains with a the monsoonal climate. Most of the 
people live in the valleys of the Mekong and its tributaries. Just under half of 
the population are ethnic Lao, the principal lowland inhabitants and politically 
and culturally dominant group. Mountain tribes of Sino-Tibetan and Thai 
ethnolinguistic heritage are found in northern Laos. In the central and southern 
mountains, Mon-Khmer tribes predominate. There also are Vietnamese and Chinese 
minorities, particularly in the towns. Throughout its history Siamese and 
Vietnamese kingdoms have competed for control of Laos, with the Siamese 
dominating much of what is now Laos in the 19th century, but supplanted by the 
French late in the century. France formally recognized the independence of Laos 
and Laos remained a member of the French Union until 1953. Lao politics remained 
unstable but essentially unchanged through the 1960s. On December 2, 1975, the 
monarchy was abolished, and the communist Lao People's Democratic Republic 
(LPDR) was established. The new government set about transforming Laos into a 
socialist state. Laos is underdeveloped. Most of its limited resources are 
underexploited and unsurveyed. It is further handicapped by an inadequate 
internal transportation system and isolation from the sea. An estimated 85% of 
the population engages in subsistence agriculture, but less than 10% of the land 
area is for agricultural use. The government permits a private sector, but the 
LPDR emphasizes development through socialism with improvement in agriculture 
and transporation as stated goals. Since the inauguration of the new regime in 
December 1975, Laos has maintained a close relationship with Vietnam. US 
relations with Laos deteriorated sharply in 1975, after government inspired mobs 
attacked US installations. No US economic or military assistance programs exist 
in Laos.

PMID: 12178063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Oct:1-8.

Finland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Finland's population stood at 4,913,300, with an annual growth 
rate of 0.35%. The 1984 infant mortality rate was 6.6/1000 and life expectancy 
was 70.4 years for males and 78.8 years for females. Finland's literacy rate 
approaches 100%. Of the labor force of 2,437,000, 11.5% are engaged in 
agriculture; 45.5% are employed in industry, commerce, and finance; 28% are in 
the service sector; 5.1% work for the government; and 7.6% work in the transport 
sector. The gross domestic product (GDP) was US$54 billion in 1985, with an 
annual growth rate of 2.8% and a per capita income of $1,007. Industry accounts 
for 28% of the GDP. An extensive social welfare system, comprising 20% of the 
national income, includes a variety of pension and assistance programs and a 
comprehensive health insurance program covering the entire Finnish population. 
Finland's proportional representation system of government encourages a 
multitude of political parties and has resulted in several coalition 
governments. Finland's industrial economy is based on capital investment and new 
technology.

PMID: 12178064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Mar:1-8.

Canada.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1986, Canada's population stood at 25.5 million, with an annual growth 
rate of 1.2%. The infant mortality rate is 15/1000, and life expectancy is 69 
years for males and 76 years for females. Of the labor force of 12.9 million, 
3.5% are engaged in agriculture, 52% work in industry and commerce, 28.4% are in 
the services sector, and 5.9% are employed by the government. The gross national 
product was US$367.2 billion in 1986, with a per capita income of about $13,000. 
Canada is a constitutional monarchy with a bilingual federal system, a 
parliamentary form of government, and strong democratic traditions. The 
spectacular growth of Canadian manufacturing in recent decades has transformed 
the country from a rural agricultural society into a primarily urban and 
industrial society. The mineral industry has been a major factor in Canada's 
economic development.

PMID: 12178065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Mar:1-6.

Uganda.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Uganda occupies 94,354 square miles in central Africa, bounded by Kenya, 
Tanzania, Rwanda, Zaire, and Sudan. It includes part of Lake Victoria, and the 
Ruwenzori mountains are on its border with Zaire. The country is largely on a 
plateau and thus has a pleasant climate. 12% of the land is devoted to national 
parks and game preserves. The northeast is semiarid; the southwest and west are 
rainy. The population of 15,900,896, growing at 3.7% a year, is mostly rural and 
is composed of 3 ethnic groups: The Bantu, including the Buganda, the Banyankole 
and the Basoga; the Nilo-Hamitic Iteso; and the Nilots. There are also some 
Asians and Arabs. The official language is English, but Luganda and Swahili are 
widely used. The majority of the people are Christian. Literacy is about 52%, 
and 57% of school-age children attend primary school. Infant mortality rate is 
108/1000, and life expectancy is 49 years. The 1st Englishman to see Uganda was 
Captain John Speke in 1862. The Kingdom of Buganda became a British protectorate 
in 1894, and the protectorate was extended to the rest of the country in 1896. 
In the 1950s the British began an africanization of the government prior to 
formal independence, but the 1st general elections in 1961 were boycotted by the 
Bugandans, who wanted autonomy. In the 2nd election, in March, 1962, the 
Democratic Party, led by Benedicto Kiwanuka, defeated the Uganda People's 
Congress (UPC), led by Apollo Milton Obote; however, a month later, the UPC 
allied with the Buganda traditionalists, the Kabaka Yekka, and formed a 
collision government under Obote. Uganda became independent in 1962 with the 
King of Buganda, Sir Edward Frederick Mutesa II as president. Political 
rivalries continued, and in 1966 Prime Minister Obote suspended the 
constitution, and the Buganda government lost its semiautonomy. Obote's 
government was overthrown in 1971 by Idi Amin Dada, under whose 8-year reign of 
terror 100,000 Ugandans were murdered. Amin was ousted by an invading Tanzanian 
army, and various governments succeeded one another in Uganda, including one 
headed by Obote from 1980-85, which laid waste a large section of the country in 
an attempt to stamp out an insurgency led by the National Resistance Army (NRA). 
Obote was overthrown by an army brigade, but the insurgency continued until, in 
1986, the NRA seized power and established a transitional government with Yoweri 
Museveni as president. The transitional government has established a human 
rights commission and has instituted wide-ranging economic reforms with the help 
of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to rehabilitate the economy, restore 
the infrastructure of destroyed transportation and communications facilities, 
and bring the annual inflation rate of 250% under control. Uganda has ample 
fertile land and rich deposits of copper and cobalt, but, due to economic 
mismanagement and political instability, is one of the world's poorest 
countries. The gross domestic product in 1983 was $5.9 billion. Exports totalled 
$380 million, 90% of which was accounted for by coffee. Most industry is devoted 
to the processing of agricultural produce and the manufacture of agricultural 
tools, but production of construction materials is resuming. Uganda has 800 
miles of railroad, linking Mombasa on the Indian Ocean with the interior, and 
20,000 miles of roads, radiating from Kampala, the capital. There is an 
international airport at Entebbe, built with Yugoslav assistance. The army, 
i.e., the National Resistance Army, receives military aid from Libya and the 
Soviet Union. The United States broke off diplomatic relations with Uganda 
during the Amin regime, but has provided roughly $43 million of aid and 
development assistance during the 1980s.

PMID: 12178068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Backgr Notes Ser. 1988 Aug:1-8.

Zambia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Zambia is directed to the following: 
geography; the people; history; government; the economy; foreign relations; 
defense; and relations between Zambia and the US. In 1986, the population 
totaled 7 million with an annual growth rate of 3.7%. The infant mortality rate 
is 87/1000 with a life expectancy of 51 years. Zambia, located in south-central 
Africa, is bordered by Zaire, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, 
Angola, and Namibia. The population is made up of over 70 Bantu-speaking tribes. 
Expatriates, mostly British (15,000 in 1986) or South African, live primarily in 
Lusaka where they are employed in mines and related activities. Some ancestors 
of present-day Zambians most likely arrived about 2000 years ago and eventually 
displaced or absorbed indigenous stone age hunters and gatherers. The major 
waves of Bantu-speaking immigrants began in the 15th century; the greatest 
influx occurred in the late 17th to the early 19th centuries. After the mid-19th 
century, the area was penetrated by Western explorers. In 1888, Northern and 
Southern Rhodesia (now Zambia and Zimbabwe) were proclaimed a British sphere of 
influence. Southern Rhodesia was annexed formally and granted self-government in 
1923. Independence was realized on October 24, 1964. Zambia was the 1st British 
territory to become a republic immediately upon realizing independence. The 
constitution promulgated on August 25, 1973, abrogated the original 1964 
constitution, and this new constitution and the national elections that followed 
in December 1973 were the final steps in achieving what is termed a "1-party 
participatory democracy." President Kenneth Kaunda is the major figure in the 
country's politics. He has wide popular support and traditionally has bridged 
the rivalries among the country's various regions and ethnic groups. The economy 
of Zambia is based primarily on its majority state-owned copper industry, which 
is the only significant source of foreign exchange. Copper production has 
dropped to less than 500,000 metric tons/year from a high of 720,000 in 1976. 
Beginning in late 1982, Zambian government leaders took several important steps 
to deal with the country's economic plight, including restricting public 
spending, reducing government subsidies, raising farm producer incentives, and 
devaluing the currency. The US maintains a substantial foreign assistance 
program in Zambia.

PMID: 12178072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Dec:1-10.

Peru.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This publication provides a brief account of Peru's geographic, history, 
government, and political and economic conditions. With an area of 1.28 million 
sq. km., Peru is the third largest country in South American and is home to 20.2 
million inhabitants (6 million live in the capital city of Lima). The population 
is 45% Indian, 37% mestizo, 15% white, and 3% black, Asian, and other. The 2 
official languages are Spanish and Quechua. Its literacy rate stands at 79%, and 
its infant mortality rate and life expectancy measure 91/1000 and 60.8 years 
respectively. Peru's pre-Colombian period notes the impressive achievements of 
the Inca civilization, which was conquered by Spain in 1531. The country gained 
its independence from Spanish rule in 1821. The article also mentions Peru's 
turbulent contemporary history, with territorial disputes, a strong military 
presence, and a series of coups that have interrupted civilian constitutional 
governments. As recently as 1985, Peru had its first exchange of power from 1 
democratically elected leader to another in 40 years, when 36 year-old Alan 
Garcia Perez became president. Leader of the American Popular Revolutionary 
Alliance (APRA), GArcia espouses leftist but not non-communist politics, and is 
well-known for his message of anti-imperialism and Latin American integration. 
Peru's has seen terrorist activity from 2 marxist organizations, the Maoist 
Sendero Luminoso (The Shining Path) and the MRTA-MIR (Tupac Amaru Revolutionary 
Movement-Movement of the Revolutionary Left. In 1986, Peru's economy had a $17 
billion Gross Domestic Product (GDP), a per capital GDP of $839, and an 
inflation rate of 62.9. The article also provides information concerning US 
economic assistance to Peru, as well as an assessment of US-Peruvian relations.

PMID: 12178073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Backgr Notes Ser. 1991 Jun:1-4.

Ecuador.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Background notes and statistics on Ecuador are provided in the document. 
271,000 sq. km. of jungle are encompassed by the country, with a 1990 population 
of 11 million growing at the annual rate of 2.4%. The work force total 3.4 
million. Ecuador claims a population comprised of 4 ethnic groups, predominantly 
Roman Catholic, and speaking Spanish in addition to Indian languages. 6 years of 
education are compulsory, with the country overall enjoying 88% literacy. The 
infant mortality rate is 51/1,000, while life expectancy is 66 years. 1990 GDP 
was $10.9 billion, and was growing at the rate of 1.5%. Per capita income was 
$1,043, while 1990 figures reported 50% inflation. Agriculture accounts for 17% 
of GNP, industry for 16%; 1990 international trade surplus totalled $0.7 
billion. Additional data are provided on Ecuador's people, government, economy, 
international affiliations, history, political conditions, principal government 
officials, foreign relations, and bilateral relations with the United States. 
Structural reform brought economic improvement in 1989. Public sector spending 
was tightened, monetary growth slowed, and external accounts improved. While 
progress stalled in 1990, additional steps combined with higher oil prices were 
expected to reduce the deficit and moderate inflation. Further reductions in 
government control over the economy, movement toward free-market interest rates, 
privatization of selected companies, trade liberalization, labor law reform, and 
the promotion of domestic and foreign private investment are called for.

PMID: 12178074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Backgr Notes Ser. 1989 Jan:1-4.

Liechtenstein.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Liechtenstein is on the following: geography; 
the people; history; government and political conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; and relations between Liechtenstein and the US. In 1988, 
Liechtenstein's population numbered 27,825 with an annual growth rate of 0.89%. 
The infant mortality rate is 6.3/1000; life expectancy is 71 years for men and 
76 years for women. The population is homogeneous, stemming almost totally from 
a Germanic tribe, the Alemanni. The official language is German, yet most of the 
population speaks Alemannic, a German dialect similar to that used in eastern 
Switzerland. Liechtenstein has been permanently inhabited since the Neolithic 
Age. The Imperial Principality of Liechtenstein was established in 1719 and has 
been politically independent since 1815 but did join a customs union with the 
Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1852. It abrogated this treaty with Austria in 1919. 
The principality remained neutral in both World Wars. The Principality of 
Liechtenstein is a hereditary constitutional monarchy. The prince is head of the 
House of Liechtenstein and chief of state; all legislation must have his 
concurrence. He also is empowered to dissolve the parliament. Traditional 
popular loyalty to the monarch has assured the stability of the constitutional 
system. During the last 3 decades, Liechtenstein has developed from a primarily 
agricultural to a highly industrialized principality. It now has more than 50 
factories, producing a wide range of highly specialized articles, especially in 
small machinery. The domestic labor force of 7490 is highly skilled, yet its 
size is inadequate for an industrial economy. Consequently, about 9631 foreign 
workers (1985 figures) are employed in Liechtenstein. Liechtenstein has a market 
economy, and its banks form an increasingly important part of its economy. The 
US has no diplomatic or consular mission in Liechtenstein.

PMID: 12178078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Backgr Notes Ser. 1987 Feb:1-8.

Singapore.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Singapore's population stands at 2.6 million, with an annual growth rate of 
1.1%. The infant mortality rate is 8.9/1000, and life expectancy is 69 years for 
men and 74 years for women. Chinese account for 77% of the population, while 
Malays comprise another 15%. The work force of 1.2 million is distributed as 
follows: agriculture, 1%; industry and commerce, 58%; services, 35%; and 
government, 6%. The gross domestic product was US$16 billion in 1985, with a per 
capita income of $6200. Although the rate of population growth has fallen, 
Singapore is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. 
Singapore's strategic location has given it an economic importance in Southeast 
Asia out of proportion to its size. After independence in 1965, Singapore's 
economy expanded rapidly and its infrastructure was modernized. Singapore 
continues to upgrade worker skills and search for new products and markets for 
its export-led economy. A central goal is to make Singapore a complete business 
center, offering multinationals a manufacturing base, a developed financial 
infrastructure, and excellent communications to service regional and world 
markets. The government's development policy since independence has emphasized 
industrialization.

PMID: 12178079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Aug:1-6.

Libya.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The 1984 population of Libya was estimated at 3.6 million, with an annual 
growth rate of 3.9%. The infant mortality rate stood at 84/1000, and life 
expectancy was 59 years. School attendance was 90%, and literacy was 55-60%. 
Libya is an Islamic Arabic Socialist "Mass State," tightly controlled by 
Mu'ammar Qadhafi. Libyans are primarily a mixture of Arabs and Berbers. 90% of 
the population lives in less than 10% of the land area. 50% of the population is 
under 15 years of age. Libya's economy depends primarily upon revenues from 
exported crude oil. Libya's GNP grew at an average annual rate of 5% in 1960-80, 
but has been falling at an annual rate of 7% since 1980 as a result of 
restrictions on the volume of oil production. Direct oil earnings were US$22-24 
billion in 1980, but now stand at US$10 billion. The Gross Domestic Product was 
US$25 billion in 1984, and per capita income was US$7,000. Of the work force of 
approximately 1 million, 18% are engaged in agriculture, 31% in industry, 24% 
are employed by the government, and 27% work in the services sector.

PMID: 12178080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Jan:1-4.

Nicaragua.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Nicaragua is on the following: geography; the 
people and history; government and polictical conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; defense; and relations between the US and Nicaragua. Nicaragua's 
population is 2.9 million with an annual growth rate of 3.3% (1981). The infant 
mortality rate is 37/1000; life expectancy is 56 years. Most Nicaraguans are 
mestizo, a mix of European and Indian. Smaller ethnic groups also are 
recognizable. A large black minority of Jamaican origin is concentrated on the 
Caribbean coast, although migration to Managua is on the rise. Nicaragua borders 
Costa Rica to the south and El Salvador--across the Gulf of Fonseca--and 
Honduras to the north. The climate is tropical. About 40% of the population are 
urban; most live in the Pacific lowlands and the adjacent interior highlands 
region. On July 19, 1979 the Government of National Reconstruction formed in 
exile as a coalition of the Sandinista Front for National Liberation (FSLN) and 
civic leaders, stepped into the power vacuum left by the Somoza government's 
collapse. The GRN was organized into a 5-member junta, the 19 member Council of 
Ministers, and the 33 member quasi legislative National Council. The GRN's July 
19 Declaration of San Jose, promising a democratically elected government and an 
equitable pluralistic society, met with strong popular support. Freedom of 
speech, press, religion, and assembly are guaranteed by the declaration, yet the 
GRN's efforts at promoting political freedom have been less successful than its 
efforts at economic equity. At different times, the GRN has restricted operation 
of opposition newspapers on national security grounds, banned individual foreign 
films on political grounds, attempted to reduce the role of the Roman Catholic 
Church and tried to reduce the traditional autonomy of the national university. 
The country's resources are primarily agricultural. Some estimates indicate that 
70% of Nicaragua's territory is usable for agriculture of livestock, though much 
is underutilized. Currently, more than half the country is covered in forest. 
The forest industry collapsed since it was nationalized, although its potential 
remains. Nicaragua's industrial sector is still small but grew rapidly following 
the formation of the Central American Common Market. Nicaragua's current 
economic problems stem from continued tension between the private sector and the 
revolutionary government, which has discouraged private investment. The GRN is 
committed to maintaining ties with all nations while espousing a policy of 
nonalignment. The FSLN has converted and expanded the military. The US has 
contributed $128 million in economic aid to Nicaragua. Nicaraguan support for 
the Salvadoran insurgents resulted in a US presidential determination in April 
1981 to suspend US aid to Nicaragua.

PMID: 12178081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Backgr Notes Ser. 1982 Nov:1-4.

The Gambia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of the Republic of the Gambia is directed to 
the following: the people; geography; history; government and political 
conditions; economy; foreign relations; and relations between the US and Gambia. 
In 1980 Gambia's population was estimated to be 619,052; the 1980-81 annual 
growth rate estimate was 2.8%. The infant mortality rate is 217/1000; life 
expectancy is 32 years for men and 34 years for women. Almost 85% of the 
population live in rural areas. The principal ethnic groups are Mandinka, Fula, 
Wolof, Jola, and Serahuli, English is the official language, although most 
Gambians speak their native language. The Gambia, located on the bulge of West 
Africa, is low lying, with a maximum altitude of 73 meters above sea level. From 
what is known of its early history, the Gambia was once part of the Empire of 
Ghana and the Kingdom of the Songhais. By the 16th century, Portuguese slave 
traders and gold seekers had settled in the lower river area. During the late 
17th and throughout the 18th century, England and France struggled continously 
for political and commercial supremacy in the regions of the Senegal and Gambia 
rivers. The Gambia achieved independence on February 18, 1965, as a 
constitutional monarchy within the British Commonwealth. Shortly thereafter the 
government proposed conversion from a monarchy to a republic with an elected 
president replacing the British monarch as chief of state. In 1970 a referendum 
was approved by the required majority, and the Gambia became a republic on April 
24th. The government is divided into independent executive, legislative, and 
judicial branches. Executive power is vested in a president, popularly elected 
for a 5 year term. The Gambia is 1 of the few African countries with a genuine 
multiparty system. There is no army. The economy is almost totally agricultural. 
The small manfacturing sector accounts for about 5% of the gross domestic 
product. Few foreign investors have taken advantage of the generous tax and 
customs incentives offered by the government under the Development Act of 1973. 
Some subsistence crops are grown, primarily grain, sorghum, and rice. Almost all 
suitable land is planted with peanuts, although crop diversification is 
encouraged. During the last decade fishing and tourism have developed. The 
Gambia follows a formal policy of nonalignment, but it maintains particularly 
close relations with the United Kingdom, Senegal, and African members of the 
Commonwealth. US policy is to expand and strengthen its friendly ties with the 
Gambia.

PMID: 12178083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Jul:1-7.

Romania.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Romania is directed to the following: 
people; geography; history; government; political conditions; the economy; 
foreign relations; defense; and relations between the US and Romania. In 1981 
Romania's population was estimated to be 22.4 million. The annual growth rate 
was 0.9%. The infant mortality rate is 31/1000. In 1974-77 life expectancy was 
69.3 years for men and 71.8 years for women. About 88% of the population are 
ethnically Romanian, a group that is traced to Latin speaking Romans and 
Thracian, Slavonic, and Celtic ancestors. Most of the minority populations 
reside in Transylvania or areas to the north and west of Bucharest. The 
government's policy toward the national minorities is nondiscriminatory and 
allows them a degree of cultural autonomy. The Jewish community surviving World 
War 2 has been reduced by more than 90% over the past 3 decades by emigration to 
Israel. Romania occupies the greater part of the lower basin of the Danube River 
system and the hilly eastern regions of the middle Danube basin. It lies on 
either sie of the mountain systems. Romania has had 22 centuries of violent and 
dramatic history. Romania was an independent kingdom from 1881 until December 
30, 1947, when the communist dominated government forced the abdication of King 
Michael. In March 1945 King Michael was forced to appoint a communist front 
government. The King abdicated under pressure in December 1947, when the 
Romanian People's Republic was declared. With their accession to power, the 
communists effectively subordinated national Romanian interests to those of the 
USSR. Since the early 1960s, there has been a resurgence of Romanian nationalism 
and several significant foreign policy differences between Romania and the 
Soviet Union. The 3 principal branches of government are the unicameral Grand 
National Assembly, with its Council of State; a centralized executive consisting 
of a Council of Ministers, operating ministries, and state committees; and a 
judiciary. After 1947, the new government followed the Soviet example of 
agricultural collectivization and forced industrialization accompanied by a 
remodeling of the state along totalitarian communist lines. Political leadership 
since the late 1950s has been very stable. Romania is one of the less developed 
countries of Europe. The government is determined to show continued impressive 
growth rates along with a large measure of economic independence. Growth rates 
declined in the late 1970s and fell close to zero in real terms in the early 
1980s. Since the early 1960s, Romania has increasingly asserted its national 
sovereignty and has sought closer ties with noncommunist countries. After a 
15-year period of coolness, the US and Romania began in 1960 to improve 
relations by signing an agreement providing for partial settlement of American 
property claims.

PMID: 12178084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Sep:1-8.

Philippines.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of the Philippines focuses on the following: the people; 
geography; history; government; political conditions; economy (agriculture, 
mining, industry, and foreign trade); defense; foreign relations; and relations 
between the US and the Philippines. In 1982 the population was estimated at 51.6 
million with an annual growth rate of 2.4%. The infant mortality rate was 
59/1000 (1982), and life expectancy was 64 years (1981). The Philippine people 
are mostly of Malay stock, descended from the Indonesians and Malays who 
migrated to the islands long before the Christian era. The most significant 
ethnic minority group is the Chinese, who have played an important role in 
commerce since the 9th century, when they first came to the islands to trade. 
About 90% of the people are Christian. The Philippine Archipelago extends about 
1770 kilometers north to south along the southeastern rim of Asia, forming a 
land chain between the Pacific Ocean on the east and the South China Sea on the 
west. The archipelago consists of some 7100 islands and islets. The history of 
the Philippines may be broken down into 4 distinct phases: the pre Spanish 
period, the Spanish period (1521-1898); the American period (1898-1946); and the 
years since independence (1946-present). A new constitution, to replace that of 
1935, was completed by a constitutional convention in November 1972 and was 
proclaimed in effect in January 1973. The 1973 constitution provided for a 
parliamentary system, initially with extensive powers vested in a prime 
minister. Major amendments adopted in 1981 revised the system to make the 
president head of government. From independence of 1972, the Philippines 
practiced relatively traditional constiutional democracy. In addition to more 
moderate, legitimate opposition, the government has been opposed by 2 
insurgencies, whose roots predated martial law, and by some urban terrorism. The 
Philippine economy grew rapidly during the period of rehabilitation and 
expansion after World War 2. The economy has performed below expectations in 
recent years. The gross national product (GNP) growth rate in 1982 ws 2.6%. 
Agriculture and forestry are the largest and most important sectors of the 
Philippines economy. The fishing industry is underdeveloped and cannot meet 
domestic needs. The Philippines has extensive proven and potential reserves of 
metallic and nonmetallic minerals. Industrial production has expanded and 
diversified steadily since World War 2. Foreign trade is of great importance to 
the Philippine economy. The armed forces of the Philippines have grown 
substantially in recent years, from about 60,000 troops in 1972 to 146,000 in 
1983. Philippine foreign policy, at 1 time based largely on a "special 
relationship" with the US, has diversified over the past decade. US policy 
promotes a continued close association in many areas accompanied by a growing 
sense of equality and mutual recognition of each nation's independent interests.

PMID: 12178085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Aug:1-8.

Austria.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Austria focuses on the following: geography, people, 
history, government, political conditions, economy, foreign relations, and 
relations between the US and Austria. As of July 1982, the population of Austria 
totaled 7.6 million with an annual growth rate of 0.1%. The infant mortality 
rate is 16/1000, and life expectancy is 73 years. Austria is primarily 
mountainous, and the climate is moderate. 99% of Austria's population are native 
German speakers. The only 2 significant minority groups are about 20,000 
Slovenes in Carinthia and about 25,000 Croatians in Burgenland. The 
Austro-Hungarian Empire played a decisive role in central European history, 
partly because of its strategic position astride the southeast approaches to 
western Europe and the north-south routes between Germany and Italy. The 
president of Austria is directly elected to a 6-year term and may not serve more 
than 2 successive terms. As chief of state, the president's functions are 
largely representational. The chancellor (head of government) is either the 
leader of the party that wins the majority of seats in parliamentary elections 
and therefore can form a government or a coalition, or the leader of the party 
having the support of the president in the formation of a minority government. 
The chancellor selects the cabinet and, with its assistance, weilds actual power 
and is responsible to the Federal Assembly. The Federal Assembly (parliament) is 
composed of 2 houses--the National Council, or lower house, and the Federal 
Council, or upper house. Virtually all legislative authority is concentrated in 
the National Council. Since World War 2 Austria has enjoyed politcal stability. 
The 2 major parties that formed during the 1945-66 period have the support of 
about 90% of the electorate. Austria has a free enterprise economy in which the 
government plays an important role. More than half of the gross domestic product 
(GDP) comes from manufacturing and services. Austrian farms are small and 
fragmented and their products are relatively expensive. Exports account for 
almost 40% of the GDP. The 1955 Austrian State Treaty ended the 4 power 
occupation and recognized Austria as an independent and sovereign state. The 
political leaders and the population recognize and appreicate the essential role 
played by US economic assistance through the Marshall Plan in the rehabilitation 
of their country following World War 2 and by the US in promoting agreement of 
the Austrian State Treaty.

PMID: 12178086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Nov:1-7.

French Antilles and Guiana.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of French Antilles and Guiana cover the following: the 
people, geography, history, government, political conditions, economy, and 
relations with the US. In 1983 the population totaled 303,000 with an annual 
growth rate of 0.09%. The infant mortality rate (1981) was 12.6/1000 and life 
expectancy 68 years. About 98% of the people of Martinique are of Afro European 
or Afro European Indian descent. The remainder are the old planter families and 
a sizable number of metropolitan French. Most of the work force are employed in 
agriculture or food processing and associated industries. Most permanent 
residents of Guadeloupe are of mixed Afro European descent. A few thousand 
Metropolitan French reside there. Most French Guianese live along the coast, 
about 1/2 of them in the capital. Martinique is the northernmost of the Windward 
Islands, which are part of the Lesser Antilles chain in the Caribbean Sea 
southeast of Puerto Rico. Guadeloupe comprises 2 of the Leeward Islands, which 
are also part of the Lesser Antilles chain. French Guiana is located on the 
northern coast of South America, a few degrees north of the Equator. Indians 
were the 1st known indigenous inhabitants of French Guiana and the French 
Antilles. Columbus sighted Guadeloupe in 1493, Martinique in 1493 or 1502, and 
the Guiana coast probably during his 3rd voyage in 1498. French Guiana, 
Guadeloupe, and Martinique, as overseas departments of France since 1946, are 
integral parts of the French Republic. Their relationship to Metropolitan France 
is somewhat similar to that of Alaska and Hawaii to the counterminous US. Each 
department has a general council composed of 1 representative elected by each 
canton. Guadeloupe and Martinique each elect 2 senators to the French Senate and 
3 deputies to the National Assembly. French Guiana elects 1 senator and 1 
deputy. In each of the 3 departments exist individuals and small political 
parties that advocate immediate independence, but their adherents form only a 
tiny fraction of the electorate. The Mitterand Administration dissolved the 
National Assembly shortly after taking power. New elections were held in June 
1981, in which the parties of the left in the overseas departments fared 
somewhat better than in the presidential elections. Guadeloupe and Martinique 
owed their colonial prosperity to agriculture, principally sugar. In recent 
years, agriculture has decreased in importance and may account for about 11% of 
national income for Martinique and 18% for Guadeloupe. About 60-70% of national 
income from Martinique and Guadeloupe is accounted for by the services and 
government sectors of the economy, in large part from government transfers. 
Substantial progress has been made in the development of tourism in recent 
years. The economy of French Guiana is undeveloped but has significant 
potential. US policy toward the overseas departments is inseparable from its 
overall policy of friendly relations with France.

PMID: 12178088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Backgr Notes Ser. 1983 Dec:1-16.

China.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of China focuses on the following: the people; geography; 
history (early history, 20th century China, the People's Republic of China; the 
"Great Leap Forward" and the Sino Soviet Split, the Cultural Revolution, and 
Mao's death and present directions); government (state structure, Chinese 
Communist Party, and legal system); education; economy; foreign relations; 
defense; and relations between China and the US. As of 1982, China's population 
totaled just over 1.008 billion with an annual growth rate of 1.5%. Life 
expectancy is 68 years. Government authorities endorsed birth control in the 
1950s, played it down in 1958, and began to promote it again in 1962. The 
present family planning program began in the early 1970s and has become more 
fully mobilized since 1979. The largest ethnic group is the Han Chinese, who 
constitute 93.3% of the total population. The People's Republic of China, 
located in eastern Asia, is almost as large as the European continent. 2/3 of 
China's area is mountainous or semidesert; only about 1/10 is cultivated. China 
is the oldest continuous major world civilization with records dating back about 
3500 years. Mao's death in September 1976 removed a towering figure from Chinese 
politics and set off a scramble for succession. The post 11th Party Congress 
leadership has emphasized economic development and renounced the mass political 
movements of prior years. Important educational reforms were made in early 1978. 
Since 1979, the Chinese leadership has moved toward more pragmatic positions in 
almost all fields. The Chinese government has always been subordinate to the 
Chinese Communist Party (CCP), its role being to implement party policies. The 
primary instruments of state power are the State Council, an executive body 
corresponding to a cabinet, and the NPC, a legislative body. China has made 
impressive progress in primary education since 1949. About 93% of eligible 
children are enrolled in 1st grade, though only 65% finish primary school. 
China's goal is to provide universal elementary school education by 1990. Since 
1978 the premise of China's economic policy has been that consumer welfare, 
economic productivity, and political stability are indivisible. Emphasis has 
been placed on raising personal income and consumption and on introducing new 
productivity incentive and management systems. Since early 1982 China has placed 
increasing importance on building closer ties with the 3rd world. China's armed 
forces total about 4.2 million. In February 1981 the Reagan Administration 
reaffirmed the US commitment to respect the principles of the 1979 Communique on 
the Establishment of Diplomatic relations.

PMID: 12178089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Jun:1-4.

Maldives.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Maldives focuses on: the people; geography; history; 
government and political conditions; economy; foreign relations; and relations 
between the US and Maldives. The population of Maldives was estimated at 168,000 
in 1983 with an annual growth rate of 3.2%. The infant mortality rate was 
88/1000 with a life expectancy of 46.5 years. Only about 200 of the 1200 islands 
are inhabited. The population is scattered throughout the country, with the 
greatest concentration on the capital island of Male. Due to poor soil and 
limited availability of cultivable land, agriculture is limited to a few 
subsistence crops. In recent years Maldives has been successful in marketing its 
natural assets for tourism. In 1981 receipts from fish exports totaled $7.2 
million, from tourism $18.3 million, and from shipping (net) $3 million. A 
recent development, affecting economic relations with the US, has been the 
establishment of a small garment industry on the site of the former British Air 
Force base on the southermost island, Gan.

PMID: 12178090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 May:1-6.

Australia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Australia covers the following: the people, geography, 
history, government, political conditions, economy, foreign relations and 
defense, and relations between the US and Australia. In 1983 the population of 
Australia totaled 15.3 million with an annual growth rate of 1.3%. The infant 
mortality rate is 9.9/1000 live births with a life expectancy of 74 years. The 
people of Australia are predominantly of British origin, and their culture and 
outlook are similar to those of the US. The aboriginal population is estimated 
to be 1% of the total. Much of Australia's culture is derived from European 
roots, but distinctive Australian trends have evolved from the environment, 
aboriginal culture, and the influence of Australia's neighbors. Australia, the 
world's smallest continent but 1 of the largest nations, is located below the 
Southeast Asian archipelago and is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean and 
on the west by the Indian Ocean. Most of the continent is a low, irregular 
