plateau. Little is known of Australia before its discovery by Dutch explorers in 
the 17th century. On January 26, 1788 the Colony of New South Wales was founded 
and formal proclamation on the site of Sydney followed on February 7. Many of 
the 1st settlers were convicts. The mid-19th century began a policy of 
emancipation of convicts and assisted immigration of free people. The 1st 
federal Parliament was opened at Melbourne in May 1901. Australia passed the 
Statute of Westminster Adoption Act in 1942, which officially established 
Australia's complete autonomy in both internal and external affairs. The 
Commonwealth government was created with a constitution patterned partly on the 
US constitution. Australia is a fully independent nation within the 
Commonwealth. The federal Parliament is bicameral, consisting of a Senate and a 
House of Representatives. At the apex of the court system is the High Court of 
Australia. The 3 main political groups in Australia are the Liberal Party, the 
National Party, and the Australian Labor Party. The ALP came to power in a 
sweeping victory on March 5, 1983, bringing an end to nearly 8 years of rule by 
the Liberal/National coalition. Australia has a sophisticated, diversified, and 
affluent economy (1982 gross domestic product, US$151 billion). The economy is 
heavily dependent on foreign trade. Since World War II Australia plays an 
increasingly active role in international affairs. On most international issues, 
the US and Australia are in broad agreement and cooperate closely.

PMID: 12178091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Jun:1-8.

Equatorial Guinea.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Equatorial Guinea is directed to the 
following: the people, history, geography, government, political conditions, the 
economy, foreign relations, and relations between the US and Equatorial Guinea. 
The population was estimated at 304,000 in 1983 and the annual growth rate was 
estimated in the range of 1.7-2.5. The infant mortality rate is 142.9/1000 with 
a life expectancy of 44.4 years for males and 47.6 years for females. The 
majority of the Equatoguinean people are of Bantu origin. The largest tribe, the 
Fang, is indigenous to the mainland, although many now also live on Bioko 
Island. Portuguese explorers found the island of Bioko in 1471, and the 
Portuguese retained control until 1778, when the island, adjacent islets, and 
the commercial rights to the mainland between the Niger and Ogooue Rivers were 
ceded to Spain. Spain lacked the wealth and the interest to develop an extensive 
economic infrastructure in Equatorial Guinea during the 1st half of this 
century, but the Spanish did help Equatorial Guinea achieve 1 of the highest 
literacy rates in Africa. They also founded a good network of health care 
facilities. In March 1968, under pressure from Guinean nationalists, Spain 
announced that it would grant independence to Equatorial Guinea as rapidly as 
possible. A referendum was held on August 11, 1968, and 63% of the electorate 
voted in favor of the constitution, which provided for a government with a 
general assembly and presidentially appointed judges in the Supreme Court. After 
the coup in August 1979, power was placed in the hands of a Supreme Military 
Council. A new constitution came into effect after a popular vote in August 
1982, abolishing the Supreme Military Council. Under the terms of the 
constitution, the president was given extensive powers. By the end of 1983, a 
60-member Chamber of Representatives of the people had been formed. The 
government, which is credited with restoring greater personal freedom, is 
regarded favorably by the populace. The economy is based on 3 products -- cacao, 
wood, and coffee. These are exported to spain and other European countries. 
There is little industry, and the local market for industrial products is small. 
The government wants to expand the role of free enterprise and to promote 
foreign investment. The potential exists for a viable ariculture-based, 
export-oriented economy. The US provides over $1 million annually in economic 
assistance, primarily in the field of agricultural development to assist in 
production of cash and food crops.

PMID: 12178092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Oct:1-7.

Suriname.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: A summary description of Suriname's population, geography, history, 
government, economy, and foreign relations is provided. Suriname, a tropical 
country, situated on the northern coast of South America, consists of a coastal 
zone, a central forested region, and a sparsely populated southern savanna zone. 
Most of the country's approximately 400,000 inhabitants live in the coastal 
zone, which contains most of the country's agricultural land. The population is 
ethnically diverse and is 37% Hindustani, 31% Creole, 15.3% Javanese, 10.3% Bush 
Negro, 2.7% Amerindian, 2.7% Chinese, and 1% European. European settlement began 
in 1651. Between 1667-1815 the country was rule alternately by the Netherlands 
and Great Britian. In 1975 Suriname obtained independence from the Netherlands 
and was governed as a parliamentary democracy between 1975-80. In 1980 the 
government was overthrown by a military coup, and the constitution was 
suspended. Although there have been several changes in government structure and 
leadership since 1980, the country continues to be ruled by military decree. In 
1984 a Supreme Council, composed of representives of the military, labor 
federations, and business organizations and chaired by the army commander, 
Desire D. Bouterse, was established. Although ultimate authority resides in the 
commander and in the military, there is also a Council of Ministers, composed of 
labor and business leaders and headed by the Minister-President, L.F. 
Ramdat-Misier. The government exerts considerable control over the news media. 
During the colonial era, a plantation economy, based on the production of cocoa, 
coffee, sugar, and cotton, was established. The system was supported first by 
African slave labor, and then by Asian contract agricultural laborers. 
Suriname's current economy is based largely on the mining, processing and 
exporting of bauxite. The bauxite industry is dominated by the Suriname Aluminum 
Company, a subsidiary of the Aluminum Company of America, and by the Royal Dutch 
Billiton Company, a Shell owned enterprise. Although Suriname continues to have 
a predominantly free market economy, state control increased since 1980. Before 
1980 Suriname's balance of payment position was strong, but following the 
military takeover, the country's international financial situation deteriorated. 
An increase in the bauxite levy decreased export earnings, and in 1982 the 
Netherlands withdrew development assistance from Suriname in order to protest 
the government's use of repressive measures to quell political unrest. The US 
also withdrew military and financial assistance in 1982. In 1982, exports 
totaled US$336 million and imports totaled US$449 million. In 1983, the gross 
domestic product (GDP) was US$1062 million, and the per capita GDP was US$2820. 
29% of the work force is engaged in agriculture, 15% in industry and commerce, 
and 42% in government. The literacy rate is 65%, life expectancy is 68 years, 
and the infant mortality rate is 23/1000. The current government follows a 
nonalignment policy and maintains relationships with both communist and 
capitalist countries. A map and the names of Suriname's principal government 
officials and of US diplomats in Suriname are provided.

PMID: 12178093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Oct:1-8.

Israel.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: A summary description of Israel's populzation, history, government, 
geography, economy, and foreign relations is provided. Israel's population of 
4.1 million (1983) is composed of migrants and descendants of migrants from more 
than 100 different countries. 83% of the population is Jewish, and the remaining 
17% is mostly Arab. The literacy rate is 88% among Jews and 48% among Arabs. 
Life expectancy is 72.1 for males and 75.7 for females, and the infant mortality 
rate is 14.1/1000. The state of Israel was created in response to the Zionist's 
desire to establish a homeland in Palestine for the world's Jewish population. 
With the help of the British government and the League of Nations, Jews began 
immigrating to Palestine in the 1920s. During the 1930s and 1940s, Jewish 
migration to Israel increased markedly, and in 1947 the UN adopted a plan to 
divide Palestine into a Jewish state and an Arab state, despite resistance from 
the Arab community. In 1948, Israel offically proclaimed its existence, and 
hostilities between the Israelis and Arabs broke out immediately. The ensuing 
years were characterized by sporadic conflict between Israel, Arab countries 2nd 
the Palestinians. The conflict between these groups continues into the present, 
despite many international attempts to promote peace in the region. The country 
has a parliamentary democratic form of government. It is governed by an elected 
unicameral legislature, the Knesset; a president, elected by the Knesset; a 
prime minister, selected by the president to represent the major party in the 
Knesset; and a coalition cabinet, which must be approved by the Knesset. The 
country has a market economy, but the government exerts considerable control 
over the economy, including price control. The country is straddled by a high 
trade deficit, heavey defense expeditures, inflation, and the high cost of 
absorbing a large number of immigrants. Despite these problems, as well as a 
lack of natural resources, Israel has a well developed industrial and service 
economy. The majority of the country's highly skilled labor force is employed in 
the public service, industrial, commercial, and financial sectors, and only 6% 
of the labor force is engaged in agriculture. In 1983 the gross national product 
was US$23 billion, and the per capita income was US$5609. Israel experienced a 
high rate of economic growth in the past; however, in recent years the growth 
rate decreased, and in 1983, the growth rate was negative. In 1983, exports 
totaled US$4.8 billion and included polished diamonds, fruit, textiles, 
processed foods, fertilizer, chemical products, and electronics. Imports totaled 
US$8.3 billion and included military equipment, raw diamonds, oil, chemicals, 
machinery, iron, steel, cereals, textiles, vehicles, aircraft, and ships. A map 
and the names of Israel's principal government officials and of US diplomats in 
Israel are included.

PMID: 12178094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Dec:1-4.

The Bahamas.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The Commonwealth of the Bahamas had a population of 228.000 in 1984, with 
an annual growth rate of 2%. The infant mortality rate is 20.2/1000, and life 
expectancy stands at 64 years for men and 70 years for women. The literacy rate 
is 93%, and 14 years of education is compulsory. Since independence in 1973, the 
Bahamas has been an independent member of the Commonwealth of Nations. Its chief 
of state is the British monarch, represented in the Bahamas by an appointed 
governor general. The Progressive Liberal Party controls the majority of the 
parliamentary seats. Over 75% of the population lives on either New Providence 
or Grand Bahama. Of the work force of 82,000, 6% is engaged in agriculture, 10% 
in finance and business services, 25% in the hotel and restaurant sector, and 
30% is employed by government. Tourism accounts for 75% of the gross national 
product, which was US$1083 billion in 1979, and employs 2/3 of the labor force. 
The per capita income in 1982 was US$5756, and the inflation rate averages 4.1%. 
The goverment has been attempting to diversify the economy and attract new 
industries, but without much success.

PMID: 12178095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Jan:1-8.

Switzerland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The 1984 population of Switzerland has been estimated at 6.5 million, with 
an annual population growth rate of 0.1%. The infant mortality rate is 9/1000 
live births, and life expectancy averages 70.3 years for men and 76.2 years for 
women. Literacy is 100%, and school attendance is compulsory for 9 years. The 
population, of mixed European stock, is concentrated in the centralplain area. 
Switzerland is a federal state composed of 23 cantons that retain fiscal 
autonomy and the right to manage internal cantonal affairs. The basic unit of 
local government is the commune or municipality. The inability of the cantons to 
finance modern institutions (including education) has resulted in greater 
federal influence within the cantons; however, the policital situation in the 
country is extremely stable. Switzerland maintains one of the highest living 
standards in the world, and per capita income average US$14,408. The gross 
domestic product was US$93.7 billion in 1984. Of the work force of 3.1 million, 
7% are engaged in agriculture, 39% are employed in industry and commerce, 50% 
work in the service sector, and 4% are employed by government. Foreign workers 
comprise about 17% of the labor force. Economic growth has been facilitated by a 
heavy influx of foreign capital, intense investment activity, high individual 
consumption with an accompanying increase in imports, expanding export 
industries, and a high demand for construction.

PMID: 12178096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Nov:1-8.

German Democratic Republic.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The 1982 population of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) was 16,702,000, 
including 1,140,254 in East Berlin. The annual rate of population growth has 
been negligible since 1970. The infant mortality rate is 13.1/1000 live births, 
and life expectancy is 68.8 years for men and 74.7 years for women. A Communist 
self-government was established in 1949 with the permission of Soviet 
authorities. The standard of living is higher than that in other communist 
countries, and a comprehensive social insurance system covers medical, 
disability, unemployment, and other expenses. Education is free and compulsory 
through 10th grade, and the literacy rate is 99%. The GDR's economic structure 
is similar to that in the Soviet Union, with state ownership and centralized 
control. Agriculture is 95% collectivized. Since 1975, expansion of the economy 
has been slowed by sharp price increases of workers. Of the work force of 8.7 
million, 10% are engaged in agriculture, 42.5% work in industry and 
construction, and the remaining 47.5% are in other sectors. Per capita income in 
the GDR is about US$8000.

PMID: 12178098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Jan:1-8.

Guyana.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The population characteristics, geography, history, government, economy, 
political situation, and foreign relations of Guyana are briefly described. In 
1984 population size was estimated at 775,000, and the annual population growth 
rate was 0.7%. Ethnically the population is 51% East Indian, 43% African and 
mixed African, 4% Amerindian, 4% European, and 2% Chinese. 57% of the population 
is Christian, 33% Hindu, and 9% Muslim. Schooling is compulsory for those aged 
5-16 years, and the literacy rate is 86%. Life expectancy is 70 years, and the 
infant mortality rate is 41. The country is divided geographically into a 
coastal region, where 90% of the population lives; a strip of grass-covered 
savanna running to the south of the coastal region; and an interior, sparsely 
populated, forested region, which contains 85% of the the land surface of the 
country. In the late 1500s the Dutch settled in Guyana, and in 1796 the British 
became the de facto rulers of Guyana. Amerindians and then later African slaves 
were exploited as laborers during the colonial era. Still later, indentured 
workers were brought in from India, Portugal, and China. Guyana became an 
independent country in 1966 and a republc in 1970. Since 1964 the country has 
been ruled by Forbes Burnham, 1st as prime minister, and then after the adoption 
of a new constitution in 1980, as executive president. The government consits of 
a unicameral National Assembly, an executive president representing the major 
party in the assembly, a cabinet, and a judicary branch. Forbes is a member of 
the People's National Congress, which is the dominant party in the country. The 
party is supported primarily by urban blacks, and the goal of the party is to 
make Guyana into a nonaligned socialist country. The major opposition party is 
the People's Progressive Party, which favors the establishment of a Moscow 
oriented communist country and is supported primarily by the East Indian 
population. Currently, public sector enterprises dominate the economic system, 
and 51% of the population is employed in the public sector; however, there are 
also cooperative and private sector enterprises. 33.8% of the work force is 
engaged in agriculture, 44.5% in industry and commerce, and 21.7% in services. 
The gross national product (GNP) was US$419 million (1983), the annual economic 
growth rate was 10.1% (1982-3), and per capita income was US$457 (1983). 
Agriculture accounts for 26% of the gross domestic product (GDP), and major 
agricultural products are sugar and rice. Sugar processing and marketing is 
handled by a government owned company. Industry, primarily the mining and 
processing of bauxite and aluminum, accounts for 27% of the GDP. In 1983 exports 
totated US$193.3 million, and exports amounted US$243 million. During the last 
several years, the economic situation deterioritated. Productivity is declining, 
equipment and facilities are outdated, and many skilled workers are emigrating. 
A number of economic reforms were adopted, but recovery depends on the ability 
of the government to reach a standby facility agreement with teh International 
Monetary Fund. Guyana maintains ties with both communist and capitalists 
countries and is engaged in a major territorial dispute with Venezuela. Since 
1966, the US provided Guyana with US$415 million in unilateral and bilateral 
aid.

PMID: 12178099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Backgr Notes Ser. 1984 Nov:1-6.

Benin.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Benin is on the following: the people; 
geography; history; government and political conditions; economy; defense; 
foreign relations; and relations between the US and Benin. The population 
totaled 3.8 million in 1983 with an annual growth rate of 2.6%. The infant 
mortality rate is 45/1000 and life expectancy 46.9 years. The population 
comprises about 20 sociocultural groups. 4 groups -- the Fon, Aja, Bariba, and 
Yoruba -- account for more than half of the population. The name was changed 
from Dahomey to the People's Republic of Benin in 1975. 2 years after the 
military coup d'etat in 1972, Marxism-Leninism was declared the guiding 
philosophy of the new government. Marxism-Leninism remains the official 
doctrine, but the government has moved to take account of popular resistance to 
a radical social transformation, as well as problems encountered in attempting 
to establish a centrally directed economy. Benin is ranked as 1 of the world's 
35 poorest countries. The commercial, industrial, and agricultural sectors are 
all experiencing severe problems. The government's newest 5 year plan for 
1983-88 places a stronger emphasis on developing agriculture. In so doing, the 
government hopes to assure its own domestic needs and to become a supplier of 
basic foodstuffs to the region. Benin's Armed Forces number about 3000 
personnel. Benin is a member of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of 
African Unity. Relations with France are important because of historical, 
cultural, economic, and aid links. After 1972, relations between the US and 
Benin became strained as Benin moved to strengthen its ties with the Soviet 
Union and other socialist countries and mounted harsh propaganda attacks on the 
US.

PMID: 12178102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Apr:1-4.

Guinea-Bissau.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Guinea-Bissau focuses on the following: the people; 
geography; history; government and political conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; and relations between the US and Guinea-Bissau. In 1983 the 
population was estimated at 827,000 with an annual estimated growth rate of 
2.2%. 87% of the population was rural, with 13% living in urban areas. The 
infant mortality rate is 200/1000 with a life expectancy of 42 years. The 
population comprises several diverse tribal groups, each with its own language, 
customs, and social organization. Most people are farmers and follow the 
traditional religious beliefs of their forebears. Most of the nonindigenous 
population consists of a significant Cape Verdian ethnic community, a small 
Portuguese community engaged primarily in commerce and civil service, and a few 
foreign technical consultants. Guinea-Bissau is a small enclave on the west 
coast of Africa, bounded by Senegal and on the south and east by Guinea 
(Conakry). Portugal claimed Portuguese Guinea in 1446 when the fleet of Nuno 
Tristao arrived on the west coast of Africa. In 1956 the African Party for the 
Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) was organized clandestinely by the 
Amilcar Cabral and Raphael Barbosa. The PAIGC moved its headquarters to Conakry 
in 1960 and began an armed rebellion in 1961. Despite the presence of more than 
30,000 Portuguese troops, the PAIGC exercised influence over much of the country 
by 1972. It established civilian rule in the territory that it controlled and 
elections took place for a National Assembly. The National Assembly of the PAIGC 
declared the independence of Guinea-Bissau on September 24, 1973. Portugal 
granted "de jure" independence on September 10, 1974, when the US recognized the 
new nation. Guinea-Bissau is a 1-party state. Until May 1984, power was held by 
a provisional government responsible to a Revolutionary Council. In May 1984 the 
Revolutionary Council was dissolved, and the 150-member National Popular 
Assembly was reconstituted. Guinea-Bissau is among the world's least developed 
nations. The principal economic activity is agriculture, and manufacturing is 
very limited. Guinea-Bissau has proclained a policy of nonalignment, balancing 
close ties with most communist states and good relations with other states. US 
assistance began in 1975, and in 1984 the Agency for International Development 
contributed $6 million in food and project and training assistance.

PMID: 12178105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 May:1-4.

Bhutan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Bhutan focuses on the following: the people; geography; 
history; government and political conditions; the economy; defense; and foreign 
relations. In 1982 the population was estimated to total 1.2 million with an 
annual growth rate of 2.1%. Life expectancy is 43 years. The population can be 
divided into 3 broad ethnic categories -- Bhote, Nepalese, and various tribal 
groups. Bhutan is a landlocked Himalayan country located between the Tibetan 
plateau and the Assam-Bengal Plains of northeastern India. Bhutan's early 
history is shrouded in obscurity, but the country's past seems to resemble that 
of rural medieval Europe. The consolidation of Bhutan began 300 years ago, when 
Shadbung Ngawang Nangyal, a lama from Tibet, acquired the title of "dharma 
raja." By the 18th and 19th centuries, the local territorial governors had grown 
increasingly powerful, and the "deb raja" (minister) frequently became a mere 
figurehead. When India became independent in 1947, it became necessary to draw 
up a new treaty. An Indo-Bhutan treaty was signed in 1949 permitting Bhutan to 
control its internal affairs but requiring it to obtain the advice of India in 
matters of foreign relations. Traditionally a loose theocracy, and since 1907 an 
autocracy, Bhutan is adopting a rudimentary system of representative government. 
No political parties function within the Bhutanese governmental structure. 
Bhutan is divided into 18 districts, each headed by a district officer appointed 
by the king. Bhutan is self sufficient in food even though meadows and 
grasslands cover much of the country. Terrace agriculture is practiced wherever 
possible. Large forests provide the potential for future lumber or paper 
processing plants. Traditionally, Bhutan's trade was with Tibet. Since China's 
seizure of Tibet in 1950, Bhutan has channeled most of its trade toward India. 
The foreign assistance Bhutan has received beyond that provided by India has 
come through the Colombo Plan, an economic development organization for Asian 
countries. The Royal Bhutan Army was formed into a regular military force in the 
early 1950s following the Chinese invasion of Tibet. With Indian sponsorship, 
Bhutan became a member of the UN in 1970. No formal diplomatic relations exist 
between the US and Bhutan, although informal and friendly contact is maintained 
through the Bhutanese Embassy at New Delhi.

PMID: 12178107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Feb:1-7.

United Arab Emirates.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of the United Arab Emirates focuses on the following: the 
people; geography; history; government; political conditions; defense; the 
economy; foreign relations; and relations between the US and the United Arab 
Emirates. In 1983 the population was estimated at 1,194,000. In 1984 the annual 
growth rate was negative. Life expectancy is about 60 years. Fewer than 20% of 
the population are UAE citizens. Indigenous Emiris are Arab; the rest of the 
population includes significant numbers of other Arabs -- Palestinians, 
Egyptians, Jordanians, Yemenis, Omanis, as well as many Iranians, Pakistanis, 
Indians, and West Europeans, especially in Dubai. The UAE is in the eastern 
Arabian Peninsula, bounded on the north by the Persian Gulf. European and Arab 
pirates roamed the Trucial Coast area from the 17th century into the 19th 
century. Early British expeditions against the pirates led to further campaigns 
against their headquarters. Piracy continued intermittently until 1835, when the 
shaikhs agreed not to engage in hostilities at sea. Primarily in reaction to the 
ambitions of other European countries, the UK and the Trucial States established 
closer bonds in an 1892 treaty. In 1968 the British government announced its 
decision, reaffirmed in March 1971, to end the treaty relationship with the gulf 
shaikhdoms. When the British protective treaty with the Trucial Shaikhdoms ended 
on December 1, they became fully independent. On December 2, 1971, 6 of them 
entered into a union called the United Arab Emirates. The 7th, Ras al-Khaimah, 
joined in early 1972. Administratively, the UAE is a loose federation of 7 
emirates, each with its own ruler. The pace at which local government in each 
emirate is evolving, from traditional to modern, is set primarily by the ruler. 
Under the provisional constitution of 1971, each emirate reserves considerable 
powers, including control over mineral rights, taxation, and police powers. In 
this milieu, the growth of federal powers has developed slowly. Since achieving 
independence in 1971, the UAE has begun to strengthen its federal institutions. 
The UAE has no political parties. Prior to oil production, the UAE economy was 
dominated by fishing, agriculture, and herding. Since the rise of oil prices in 
1973, petroleum has dominated the economy, accounting for almost all of its 
export earnings and providing significant opportunities for productive 
investment. The UAE has huge proven oil reserves estimated at 32.4 billion 
barrels and gas reserves of 810 million cubic meters. As in most of the oil-rich 
Persian Gulf, the 1974-77 boom in the UAE has ended. For some years the US has 
enjoyed friend, informal relations with the Trucial Shaikhdoms, a relationship 
built on important and mutually advantageous private US contacts in the area.

PMID: 12178108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Apr:1-6.

Swaziland.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Swaziland is on the following: the people; 
geography; history; government and political conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; defense; and relations between the US and Swaziland. In 1985 the 
population was estimated at 636,000 with an annual growth rate of 3.4%. The 
infant mortality rate is 156/100 with a life expectancy of 47 years. Most Swazi 
are subsistence farmers. About 16,000 are employed outside the country, 
principally in South African gold and platinum mines. The whites consist of 
English-, Africans-, and Portuguese-speaking groups and are engaged mainly in 
agriculture, commerce, construction, and mining. The chief occupation of the 
white Africans is that of skilled and semiskilled labor. The country's official 
languages are siSwati and English. Swaziland is all but surrounded by the 
Transvaal and Natal provinces of the Republic of South Africa. It also shares a 
112-kilometer border with Mozambique. According to tradition, the people of the 
present Swazi nation migrated south before the 16th century to what is now 
Mozambique. Following a series of conflicts with people living in the area of 
modern Maputo, the Swazi settled in northern Zululand in about 1750. In 1894, 
under a convention between the British and South African governments, the South 
African Republic assumed the powers of protection and administration. In 1903 
Britain formally took over the administration of Swaziland. Swaziland became 
independent on September 6, 1968. The 1st post-independence elections were held 
in May 1972. The new Parliament consists of a 50 member House of Assembly and a 
20 member Senate. Legislation passed by the Parliament must be approved by the 
Crown before it becomes law. Swaziland ranks among the more prosperous countries 
in Africa. Most of the high-level economic activity is in the hands of 
non-Africans, but ethnic Swazis are becoming more active small entrepreneurs and 
are slowly moving into middle-management positions. Cattle are the main evidence 
of Swazi wealth. The sugar industry is the leading export earner. In recent 
years, a number of small industries have been established, many of them in the 2 
new industrial estates at Matsapa, near Manzini, and at Nhlangano, in the south. 
Swaziland, a member of the UN and the Organization of African Unity, seeks to 
expand its diplomatic relations with other states. National defense is provided 
by the Umbufto Swaziland Defense Force, consisting of fewer than 300 troops. The 
US seeks to maintain and strengthen the good bilateral relations that have 
existed since Swaziland become independent in 1968. The US respects the 
country's nonracial policy and encourages continued economic and political 
development.

PMID: 12178109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 May:1-8.

India.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In this discussion of India attention is directed to the following: the 
people; geography; history; government; political conditions; the economy; 
foreign relations (Pakistan and Bangladesh, China, and the Soviet Union); 
defense; and the relations between the US and India. In 1983 India's population 
was estimated at 746 million with an annual growth rate of 2.24%. The infant 
mortality rate was estimated at 116/1000 in 1984 with a life expectancy of 54.9 
years. Although India occupies only 2.4% of the world's land area, it supports 
nearly 15% of the world's population. 2 major ethnic strains predominate in 
India: the Aryan in the north and the Dravidian in the south, although the lines 
between them are blurred. India dominates the South Asian subcontinent 
geographically. The people of India have had a continuous civilization since 
about 2500 B.C., when the inhabitants of the Indus River Valley developed an 
urban culture based on commerce, trade, and, to a lesser degree, agriculture. 
This civilization declined about 1500 B.C. and Aryan tribes originating in 
central Asia absorbed parts of its culture as they spread out over the South 
Asian subcontinent. During the next few centuries, India flourished under 
several successive empires. The 1st British outpost in South Asia was 
established in 1619 at Surat on the northwestern coast of India. The British 
gradually expanded their influence until, by the 1850s, they controlled almost 
the entire area of present-day India. Independence was attained on August 15, 
1947, and India became a dominion within the Commonwealth of Nations with 
Jawaharlal Nehru as prime minister. According to its constitution, India is a 
"sovereign socialist secular democratic republic." Like the US, India has a 
federal form of government, but the central government in India has greater 
power in relation to its states, and government is patterned after the British 
parliamentary system. The Congress Party has ruled India since independence with 
the exception of the 1977-79 period of Janta Party rule. Domestically, India has 
made much progress since independnece. A relatively sophisticated industrial 
base and a large pool of skilled labor have been created, but agriculture 
remains the crucial sector and supports 70% of the people. It contributes about 
40% of gross national product (GNP). Only modest gains in per capita GNP have 
been achieved. Agricultural production has been increasing at an average annual 
rate of around 3%. Cotton and jute textile production continues to be the most 
important industry, but public sector firms in steel, heavy industry, and 
chemicals have become important since 1960. Supreme command of India's armed 
forces rests with the president but actual responsibility for national defense 
lies with the Cabinet Committee for Political Affairs. The US and India have 
aimed at cordial relations. The US is India's largest trading partner and has 
been an important source of foreign economic assistance.

PMID: 12178110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Apr:1-10.

Greece.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: A brief description of the population characteristics, geographical 
features, history, current political situation, economy, energy supply, foreign 
relations of Greece is presented. Greece's population of 9.95 million is 98% 
Greek, and the official language is Greek. 97% of the population is Greek 
Orthodox, and 2% is Muslim. Schooling is compulsory for 9 years, and the 
literacy rate is 89% for women and 96% for men. The infant mortality rate is 
13.8, and life expectancy is 72 years for males and 75 years for female. Greece 
is situated on the southern tip of the Balkan Peninsula and consists of the 
mainland, the Peleponnesos, and numerous islands including Crete. Most of the 
land mass is mountainous, large areas are dry, and only 28% of the land is 
arable. From the earliest time until recently, emigration from Greece to other 
countries was a common pattern. Since the 1960s, internal migration to urban 
areas was the dominant migration trend. Currently, 30% of the population lives 
in Athens. Despite the growing industrialization and urbanization of the 
population, the Greeks retain many traditional family and social values. Greece 
was part of the cradle of civilization, and its history is characterized by the 
rise of the Minoan culture on Crete, the rise and fall of the Myceneans on the 
Peleponnesos, the development of the city states of Athens and Sparta, the 
destruction of Athens during the Peloponnesian War, domination by the 
Macedonians, the creation of the Hellenistic cilivization, conquest by the Roman 
Empire, the establishment of the Byzantine Empire, and in 1459 conquest by the 
Ottoman Empire. In the 1820's Greece fought for and finally won its 
independence, In World War I Greece fought on the side of the Allies. In World 
War II, the Greeks successfully resisted an invasion from Italy. In 1941, the 
country was taken over by the Germans, but the Greek resistance movement 
continued to fight the Germans until liberation. Between 1944-49, there were 2 
unsuccessful attempts by the communists to take control of the country, and 
80,000 Greeks lost their lives before the hostilities ended. At independence, a 
constitional monarchy government was established in Greece. Throughout the 
1920-74 period there was an ongoing conflict between the republican and monarchy 
factions in the country, and in 1967-73, a military government took over the 
government. In 1974 a new constitution was adopted, and the county became a 
presidential parliamentary republic. The current prime minister, Andreas 
Papandreou, is the leader of the socialist party. The current president, 
Christos Sartzetakis, was elected in 1985. Industrial development began in the 
early 1900s, but economic progress was seriously hindered by the depression, 
war, and political turmoil of the 1930s and 1940s. Between 1955-79, the economy 
once again grew rapidly, but then began to decline. 42% of the work force is in 
services, 29% in industry, and 28% in agriculture. 55% of the gross domestic 
product is derived from the service sector, 31% from the manufacturing and 
mining sector, and 14% from the inefficient agricultural sector. Tourism, 
commerce, and shipping are major economic activities. In 1982 the gross national 
product (GNP) was US$32.4 billion and per capita GNP was US$3260. In 1983, 
exports amounted to US$4.1 billion, and imports amounted to US$9.5 billion. 
Greece is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European 
Economic Community. Greece and the US are defense partners, and the US provides 
Greece with considerable military assistance. The US is seeking to maintain good 
relations with the recently elected government.

PMID: 12178111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 May:1-10.

Panama.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Panama's population characteristics, geographical features, communication 
system, history, government, economy, current political situation, and foreign 
relations are briefly described. Ethnically, Panama's population of 2,001,000 
(1984) is 70% mestizo, 14% West Indian, 10% white, and 6% Indian. 93% of the 
population is Roman Catholic, and the official language is Spanish. The school 
enrollment rate is close to 100% at the primary level and 65% at the secondary 
level. The literacy rate is 93.7% for urban residents and 61.8% for rural 
residents. The infant mortality rate is 20.1, and life expectancy is 71 years. 
Panama is a hilly and mountainous country, and the eastern region is covered by 
tropical forests. In 1519, the Spanish established the old city of Panama near 
the isthmus, i.e., the narrowest section (52 miles) of the country separating 
the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, and between then and 1670s, the isthmus 
played a vital role in the movement of gold and silver from the New World to 
Spain. Ships from the western side of South American sailed to the western side 
of the isthmus. Their contents were unloaded, hauled across the isthmus, and 
reloaded on ships bound for Spain. In 1982 Panama won its independence from 
Spain and the following year voluntarily became a part of the Republic of 
Greater Colombia. Since the early 1860s, the idea of building a canal through 
the isthmus was entertained by various groups, and in the late 1800s a Frenchman 
unsuccessfully attempted the task. In 1903 Panama declared its independence from 
Colombia after Colombia refused to sign a treaty to allow the US to construct a 
canal. Panama, as an independent nation, then signed the Hay/Bunau-Varilla 
Treaty with the US. The treaty gave the US the right to build a canal. Panama 
retained sovereignty over the canal zone, i.e., a 5 mile area on each side of 
the canal, but the US was given all the rights in the area normally exercised by 
a sovereign power. The treaty was resented by the Panamaian public, and the 
government sought for many years to renegotiate the treaty. Riots against the US 
in 1964 finally lead to renegotiation and the signing of new canal treaties in 
1977. The new treaties became effective in October 1979. Under the terms of the 
treaty, Panama resumed control of the canal zone in 1979. The US will continue 
to operate the canal and retain primary responsibility for defending the canal 
through 1999; however, Panama, during the 1979-99 period, will gradually 
increase its control over the operation and defense of the canal, and in 1999 
will assume full responsibility for operating the canal. Both countries are 
pledged to maintain the neutrality of the canal indefinitely. Each year, until 
1999, Panama will receive a yearly annuity of US$10 million, US$.30 on each ton 
transiting the canal, and a contingency payment of up to US$10 million. Between 
1903-68 Panama was controlled by a conservative and commercially oriented 
oligarchy. In 1968, the National Guard removed the president and instituted a 
junta government under the control of Brigdier General Torrijos Herrera. Between 
1972-78 Torrijos was given extraordinary executive powers. The junta promoted 
economic policies favoring the rural areas and the lower and middle income 
groups. In 1978 a National Assembly was elected and in 1983 a new constitution 
was adopted. The constitution provides for an elected legislature, an elected 
president, and a judicial branch. In 1984, the current president, Nicolas Ardito 
Barletta, was elected on a coalition slate. Panama developed as an urban, 
service, and commercial economy due to its position as a transit point between 
the east and west. Half of the urban population resides in the metropolitan 
areas surrounding the canal. The country also has a large international banking 
community. The agricultural sector is small and poorly developed. (Abstract 
Truncated)

PMID: 12178112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 May:1-7.

Mozambique.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Mozambique's population characteristics, geographical features, political 
conditions, history, government, foreign relations, and economy are profiled. 
Mozambique's population of 13.4 million (1984) is composed mainly of indigenous 
tribal groups and about 10,000 Europeans, 35,000 Euro-Africans, and 15,000 
Indians. 50% of the population practices traditional religious, 30% is Muslim, 
and the remaining 15% is Christian. The official language is Portuguese. The 
literacy rate is 14%, current school attendance is 40%, the infant mortality 
rate is 115, and life expectancy is 47 years. Topographic features include a 
large coastal area of lowlands and a western plateau region. The climate is 
tropical or subtropical, and rainfall is unpredictable and in some areas, 
scarce. The area was initially inhabited by hunting and gathering groups and, 
subsequently, invaded by waves of Bantu farmers. The Portugese began 
establishing trading posts in the area in the early 1500s, gradually expanded 
their influence, and later allowed companies, mostly British owned, to 
administer large tracts of the country. The companies derived large profits 
either by operating railroad lines betwen Mozambique's ports and large cities in 
countries to the west of Mozambique or by supporting African labor for mines and 
plantations in other parts of Africa. In 1984, a number of African resistance 
movements united to form the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique, and in 
1975, following a decade of sporadic warfare, Mozambique won its independence 
and established a 1-party socialist government. The new country was faced with 
serious economic problems and a shortage of skilled labor. During the colonial 
era, no infrastructure was built for the delivery of health and education 
services, the economy was geared to provide services to the European population 
and industrialization was discouraged. Many Europeans fled when independence was 
declared, and the country was left to confront its economic problems with a 
largely untrained and uneducated labor force. Shortly after independence, the 
economy was further disrupted by UN sanctions to close Rhodesia's borders and by 
the discontinuation of the gold for labor arrangement with South Africa. The new 
government nationalized most economic activities in the country; however, since 
1983, the government allow small private enterprises to operate and encourages 
foreign investment. 85% of the population is engaged in agriculture, and most 
are subsistence farmers. The government places a high priority on agricultural 
development. In 1983, the estimated gross national product (GNP) was US$2.7 
billion, and per capita income was US$220. Exports and imports amounted 
respectively to US$132 million and US$636 million. The government initially 
followed a Soviet oriented foreign policy, but in recent years, a more 
independent stance was adopted. Between 1977-82, there was a hostile 
relationship between the US and Mozambique; however, in 1983 diplomatic 
relations were reestablished, and in 1985 the US provided the country with 
US$50-70 million in food and economic assistance. Since 1980, the country's 
development has been hindered by the acitivities of the Mozambican National 
Resistance (RENAMO), an armed insurgency force organized by Rhodesia's Ian Smith 
regime and later financed by South Africa. Although South Africa and Mozambique 
mutally agreed in 1984 to refrain from providing assistance to groups seeking to 
disrupt each other's governments, private citizens in South Africa continue to 
finance RENAMO activities.

PMID: 12178113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Jul:1-4.

Antigua and Barbuda.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Antigua and Barbuda focuses on the following: the people 
and history; geography; government and political conditions; the economy; 
foreign relations; and relations between the US and Antigua and Barbuda. The 
population of Antigua was estimated at 78,240 in June 1983; the 1984 estimate 
for Barbuda was 1200. The annual growth rate in 1983 was 1.3%. In 1970 the life 
expectancy was 70 years. The infant mortality rate is 31.5/1000 live births. 
Today's population is almost entirely of Black African origin, some of British, 
Portuguese, Lebanese, and Syrian origin. The sister islands of Antigua and 
Barbuda are located in the northeastern part of the Lesser Antilles, about 650 
kilometers southeast of Puerto Rico in the eastern Leeward group separating the 
Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. As head of the Commonwealth, Queen 
Elizabeth II is represented in Antigua and Barbuda by a governor general, who 
acts on the advice of the prime minister and the Cabinet. The prime minister is 
the leader of the majority party of the House, and the Cabinet conducts affairs 
of state. Antigua and Barbuda has a bicameral legislature. Antiguans have 
enjoyed a long history of free and fair elections in which, from time to time, 
the government changes peacefully. Constitutional safeguards include freedom of 
speech, press, worship, movement, and association. By 1972 the sugar industry 
was largely dismantled. The current government has taken steps to revive the 
industry to meet local demand for sugar, thus saving import costs, and to 
produce ethanol from sugar products for export. Yet, agriculture remains 
important contributing about 8.2% to the gross domestic product. At this time, 
the economy is based upon services rather than manufacturing. Since Antigua's 
independence in 1981, US relations with the island nation have been friendly. 
The US seeks to help Antigua develop economically and to help strengthen its 
moderate, democratic, parliamentary form of government.

PMID: 12178114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Sep:1-4.

Bermuda.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Bermuda's population characteristics, history, government, political 
situation, economy, and foreign relations were briefly described. Bermuda, a 
parliamentary British colony, is situated on a group of island in the Atlantic 
Ocean, about 650 miles east of North Carolina. Bermuda was discovered by the 
Spaniards in 1503; however, it was the British who founded the 1st settlement on 
the islands in 1612. The current population size is 56,652, and the annual rate 
of growth is 0.3%. About 2/3 of the population is of African descent, and the 
remaining inhabitants are of British, American, Portuguese, or Caribbean 
descent. The literacy rate is 98%, and school enrollment is universal and 
compulsory for 12 years. The infant mortality rate is 7.1/1000 live births and 
life expectancy is 69 years for men and 76 years for women. Although Bermuda is 
a British colony, it was granted considerable internal autonomy in 1968. A 
governor, appointed by the British Crown, is in charge of external affairs, 
defense, and the country's internal security. Under the constitution, adopted in 
1968, the internal affairs of the country are conducted by an elected bicameral 
legislative body and a premier who represents the majority party in the lower 
legislative house. The current premier is John W. D. Swan of the United Bermuda 
Party (UBP). The UBP is supported mainly by the white minority and by a few 
blacks. The Progressive Labor Party (PLP) is supported primarily by the black 
majority. The UBP has retained power since it was established in 1965, but at 
each election, its winning margin decreased. Although there is universal 
suffrage, only a small proportion of the public participates in elections. 
Despite the fact that the governor was assassinated in 1972 and there was civil 
unrest in 1977, the country is politically stable. This political stability is 
due in part to the government's efforts since the 1950s to promote racial 
equality, to the government's willingness to recognize labors' right to 
organize, and to the country's prospering economy. Until the early 1900s, 
Bermuda derived most of its income from the exportation of agricultural products 
to the US. Following the imposition by the US of high import tariffs on 
Bermudian products, Bermudians, to compensate for their loss of agricultural 
income, began to expand their tourist industry. Currently, 5% of the gross 
domestic product (GDP) is derived from agriculture and 33% from tourism. Another 
major source of income is derived from the 6000 foreign companies which have 
established headquarters in Bermuda in order to take advantage of the country's 
liberal tax laws. Most of the people work in tourism, in retail sales, or for 
the international companies. Unemplyment is 2.2%, and poverty is almost 
nonexistent. In 1983-84, the GDP was US$1,003 billion, per capita income was 
US$18,036, and the annual economic growth rate was 1.1%. Imports totaled 
US$411.094 million and exports amounted to US$40.5 million in 1984. The US has a 
naval and an air base in Bermuda.

PMID: 12178115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Sep:1-4.

Liechtenstein.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Liechtenstein, a hereditary constitutional monarchy, is a small country 
covering only 62 square miles and situated in the Alps Mountains between 
Switzerland and Austria. It has a population of 26,680 (1985), and an annual 
population growth rate of 1.2%. The population is predominantly German, and 
82.7% of the inhabitants are Roman Catholic. German is the official language. 
The literacy rate is 100%, and school is compulsory for 9 years. The infant 
mortality rate is 6.3/1000 live births, and life expectancy is 65 years for men 
and 74 years for women. The Imperial Principality of Liechtenstein was created 
in 1719 when the House of Liechtenstein purchased the territory from the Holy 
Roman Empire. Liechtenstein was part of the Germany confederacy until 1866, but 
it has been an independent country since 1815. Following World War I, 
Liechtenstein signed a series of treaties with Switzerland. These treaties 
remain in effect and provide for 1) a customs union and other forms of economic 
cooperation and integration between the 2 countries; 2) the use of Swiss 
currency in Liechtenstein; and 3) the assumption by Switzerland of 
Liechtenstein's custom controls, consular matters, and routine diplomatic 
relations. In 1921, the country adopted a hereditary constitutional monarchy 
type of government. The prince, or head of the House of Liechtenstein, is the 
chief of state. There is an elected unicameral legislative body, the Diet; 
however, all legislation must be approved by the prince, and the prince has the 
power to dissolve the Diet. Executive authority resides in a 5-member cabinet 
chaired by the deputy head of state, who represents the majority party. All 5 
members of the cabinet are nominated by the Diet but appointed by the prince. 
There are 2 major political parties, and both support the monarchy. 
Liechtenstein has a free market system and is a highly industrialized nation. It 
has a skilled labor force, but, in addition, employs more than 8000 workers from 
surrounding countries. Due to Liechtenstein's liberal tax and banking secrecy 
policies, many international companies have headquarters in the country. 54.5% 
of the work force is engaged in industry, trade, and building. Another 41.6% are 
engaged in services, and 4% are in agriculture, fishing, and forestry. Separate 
economic data is unavailable for Liechentinstein as this information is 
integrated with Swiss economic information. Estimated per capita gross national 
product is $16,900. Liechtenstein is not a member of the UN, but it is a member 
of serveral UN agencies. It is also a member of the Council of Europe, the 
European Free Trade Association, and the Conference on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe. Its routine foreign affairs are conducted through Switzerland, and 
Liechtenstein's only diplomatic mission is in Bern, Switzerland.

PMID: 12178116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Sep:1-8.

Brazil.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Brazil's population in 1985 was 135 million, with an annual growth rate 
(1982) of 2.3%. The infant mortality rate (1981) was 92/1000, and life 
expectancy stood at 62.8 years. 76% of the adult population was literate. Brazil 
is a federal republic which recognizes 5 political parties. 55% of the 
population is Portuguese, Italian, German, Japanese, African, or American 
Indian; 38% is white. Of the work force of 50 million, 35% are engaged in 
agriculture, 25% work in industry, and 40% are employed in services. Trade union 
membership totals 6 million. The agricultural sector accounts for 12% of the GDP 
and 40% of exports. Brazil is largely self-sufficient in terms of food. The GDP 
was US$218 billion in 1984, with an annual growth rate of 4%. Per capita GDP was 
US$1645. Brazil's power, transportation, and communications systems have 
improved greatly in recent years, providing a base for economic development. 
High inflation rates have been a persistent problem.

PMID: 12178118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Jul:1-4.

Grenada.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Grenada's population characteristics, geographical features, history, 
political conditions, and foreign relations are profiled. The 1984 population of 
Grenada has been estimated at 92,000, with an annual growth rate of 0.9%. The 
population is mainly of black African decent, and Christianity is the principal 
religion. English is the official language, although some vestigial French 
patois remains. 6 years of education is compulsory; 85% of the adult population 
is literate. Grenada's infant mortality rate is 16.7/1000 live births. Life 
expectancy is 69 years. Of a work force of 36,000, 23.5% are employed in 
agriculture, 24.1% in industry. The 1983 gross domestic product (GDP) was $116 
million, and the 1983 per capita GDP was $1261. Grenada's economy is based 
largely on agriculture, with tourism becoming an increasingly important source 
of foreign exchange over the last 15 years. Within agriculture, fresh fruits and 
vegetables have overtaken cocoa, bananas, and nutmeg as the largest export 
earner. Despite its potential, Grenada has faced serious economic problems is 
recent years. Unemployment may be as high as 1/3 of the labor force; the 
government has had diffculty in balancing its recurrent budget; agricultural 
revenues and production are down from historical levels; and the tourist 
industry is only now showing a rebound after several years of decline. Grenada's 
economy is now undergoing a shift in orientation, in which private sector 
investment, both domestic and foreign, is seen to be the main engine of economic 
development.

PMID: 12178119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 May:1-12.

South Africa.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: The 1983 population of South Africa was estimated at 31.1 million, with an 
annual growth rate of 2.5% (0.8% for whites, 1.8% for blacks and "coloreds," 
1.8% for Asians, and 2.8% for Africans). The infant mortality rate was 14.9/1000 
live births among whites, 80.6/1000 among blacks and coloreds, and 25.3/1000 
among Asians. Life expectancy was 70 years for whites, 59 years for blacks and 
coloreds, 66 years for Asians, and 55 years for Africans. Racial discrimination 
has become increasingly institutionalized in South Africa since the ruling 
National Party came to power in 1948. The policy of apartheid calls for separate 
political institutions for the 4 major racial groups in the population. Africans 
are considered citizens of the homelands to which their tribal group is 
assigned, not permanent citizens of the country. Coloreds and Asians are 
considered citizens and given some political expression. The new political 
system envisions broad consensus among whites, coloreds, and Indians, and a 
parliamentary committee is considering possible abolition of laws against 
multiracial political activity. The work force totals 11 million, 30% of whom 
are engaged in agriculture, 29% are employed in industry and commerce, 34% work 
in the services sector, and 7% work in mining. The GNP in 1983 totalled US$75.5 
billion and the GDP stood at US$73.2 billion. Per capita GNP was US$5239.

PMID: 12178120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Aug:1-8.

Cuba.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Cuba's population characteristics, geography, history, government, 
political conditions, and foreign relations were briefly described. Cuba, the 
largest island in the East Indies, has a tropical climate and is made up of a 
large area of rolling plains and a smaller mountainous region. Cuba's current 
population of 9.946 million (1983) is 70% urban and 30% rural. The annual 
population growth rate is 1.1%. The literacy rate among those aged 10-49 years 
is 96%, and school is compulsory for 6 years. The infant mortality rate is 
21/1000 live births, and life expectancy is 74.7 years. 47% of the work force is 
engaged in industry and commerce, 28% in services and government, and 25% in 
agriculture. Since the revolution, Cuba has had a centrally planned, nonmarket 
economy. Large state enterprises run all segments of the economy, and economic 
policy is formulated by a central planning board. Farmers are allowed to 
privately market some of their produce. The government provide a wide range of 
social services. Most of the services are free, but some entail a minimal fee. 
Cuba's economy is depressed and overly dependent on the production of sugar. 
Since the revolution, Cuba's sugar production has increased by only 1.1% 
annually. In addition to sugar production, the country is engaged in some food 
processing and other light forms of industry. Cuba has a large reserve of 
nickle. Cuba's economic indicators are calculated differently than those used in 
market countries and are not comparable to those used in market countries. In 
1983, disposable national income was US$15.8 billion, and per capita income was 
US$2,590. Cuba's imports exceed her exports. In 1983 exports totalled US$6.5 
billion and imports amounted to US$7.2 billion. Cuba's foreign debt is 
increasing annually, and Cuba is highly dependent on economic assistance from 
Russia. Between 1961-83, the USSR provided Cuba with US$30 billion in economic 
aid and US$10 billion in military aid. The country's serious economic problems 
are attributable to the overly centralized economy, poor management, and, 
excessive military spending. Cuba maintains close ties with the USSR, Eastern 
European countries, North Korea, and Vietnam. Cuba's interventionist activities 
in Latin America led to the imposition by the Organization of American State of 
economic sanctions against Cuba between 1964-75. Since 1961, the relationship 
between the US and Cuba is one of hostility. These hostilities peaked in the 
1961 Bay of Pigs episode and the 1962 missile crisis. Between 1975-77 efforts 
were made to improve relations but these were discontinued in response to Cuba's 
interventionist activities in Africa and Latin America.

PMID: 12178121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Feb:1-4.

Hong Kong.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.
