
PIP: This discussion of Hong Kong focuses on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government; political conditions; and the economy. In 1984 the 
population of Hong Kong totaled 5.4 million with an annual growth rate of 1.3%. 
The infant mortality rate is 9.9/1000; life expectancy is 76 years. Hong Kong 
adjoins Guangdong province on the southeastern coast of the Chinese mainland. It 
consists of Hong Kong and Lan Tao islands, the Kowloon Peninsula, and more than 
200 smaller islands. Hong Kong's population consists of about 98% ethnic Chinese 
and 2% other ethnic groups, mostly European. Only 57.2% of the population were 
born in Hong Kong. Cantonese is the Chinese dialect spoken by most of the 
territory's population, but English is widely understood. Not until after 1949 
did Hong Kong develop into a leading manufacturing, commercial, and tourist 
center. Hong Kong's foreign relations are the responsibility of the British 
government, but considerable autonomy has been permitted in the area of 
commercial relations. Following the June 30, 1997, expiration date of the lease 
on the New Territories, which comprise 92% of Hong Kong's total area, Hong Kong 
will become a Special Administrative Region of China in 1997. Hong Kong has 
little arable land and virtually no natural resources. The colony always has 
depended on foreign trade. Hong Kong has developed into a center of light 
manufacturing and international finance. In 1984, Hong Kong's foreign trade was 
valued at $57 billion. Hong Kongs economy has recovered strongly from the 
1981-82 recession.

PMID: 12178122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jan:1-7.

Oman.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Oman is on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government; political conditions; the economy; and relations 
between Oman and the US. The population is estimated at 1.3 million; the annual 
growth rate is 3%. The infant mortality rate is estimated to be 50/1000 with a 
life expectancy of 48 years. Oman is located in the eastern part of the Arabian 
Peninsula. Its land borders with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates 
remain undefined, and the border with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen 
is in dispute. About 1/3 of the population live in Muscat and the Batinah 
coastal plain northwest of the capital; more than 1/2 live in small towns, 
primarily in the interior. Ethnic groups include Arab, Baluchi, Zanzibari, and 
Indian. At least 200,000 expatriates live in Oman, most of whom (180,000) are 
guest workers from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, as well as from 
Egypt, Jordan, and the Philippines. Except for a brief period of Persian rule, 
the Omanis have remained independent since 1650. The sultanate has no 
constitution, legislature, or legal political parties. The judicial system is 
based mainly on the Koranic laws and the oral teachings of the Prophet Muhammad. 
In November 1981, the sultan formed the Consultative Council for the State in an 
effort to increase public participation in the government. When Oman declined as 
an entrepot for arms and slaves in the mid-19th century, much of its former 
prosperity was lost, and the economy relied almost exclusively on agriculture, 
camel and goat herding, fishing, and traditional handicrafts. Oil was first 
discovered in the interior in 1964. With the fall in oil prices in the early 
1980s, revenue declined slightly before resuming an upward trend based on 
additions to production from the new fields. By late 1985, production rose to 
just over 500,000 barrels/day. The government is undertaking many development 
projects to modernize the economy and further improve the standard of living. 
Increases in agriculture and fishing are believed possible with the application 
of modern technology.

PMID: 12178123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Dec:1-8.

Sri Lanka.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Sri Lanka covers the following: geography; people; 
history and political conditions; governent; the economy; defense; foreign 
relations; and relations between Sri Lanka and the US. The population of Sri 
Lanka totaled 16.3 million in 1985 with an annual growth rate of 1.8%. In 1984, 
the infant mortality rate was 31/1000 with life expectancy 68.9 years. Sri Lanka 
is a pear-shaped island in the Indian Ocean. It is southeast of India, from 
which it is separated at the closest point by only 29 kilometers. About 50% of 
the population live in the southwest quarter of the island, where agricultural 
conditions are most favorable. About 74% of the population are Sinhalese, and 
18% are Tamil, people of South Indian origin. Minorities include the Muslims, 7% 
of the population; the Burghers, descendants of Dutch, Portuguese, and British 
colonists; Eurasians and Malays; and the Veddahs, the aborigines of the island. 
On February 4, 1948, Ceylon became a fully independent member of the British 
Commonwealth. The Sri Lankan electoral system, in effect since 1948, resulted in 
wide swings in composition of Parliament. The constitution that came into effect 
on September 7, 1978, changed the name of the country to the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. It vested executive power in a president to be 
elected directly by the people, legislative power in the Parliament and in the 
people by referendum, and judicial power in Parliament through the courts. Sri 
Lanka's most difficult domestic problem, inherited by the United National Party 
(UNP) from its predecessor governments, is posed by the grievances and 
aspirations of the minority Tamil community. Plantation agriculture continues to 
be important in Sri Lanka, and Sri Lanka is predominantly an agricultural and 
trading nation. Efforts are being made to expand the agricultural base and to 
diversity into light industryk tourism, and other nontraditional industries, 
with emphasis on the export sector. In 1985, Sri Lanka continues in the midst of 
an ambitious development program which, in conjuction with the high growth, 
market oriented policies begun 8 years ago, has begun to revitalize the economy. 
Sri Lanka follows a nonaligned foreign policy. The US and Sri Lanka enjoy 
cordial relations and the US continues to urge the government of Sri Lanka to 
seek to resolve the country's communal animosities through political means.

PMID: 12178124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Apr:1-7.

Seychelles.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Seychelles had a population size of 65,000 and an annual growth 
rate of 1%. The infant mortality rate stood at 15/1000, and life expectancy was 
66 years. The adult literacy rate was 80%; 9 years of schooling are compulsory. 
The work force of 25,000 was distributed as follows: agriculture, 18.5%; 
industry and commerce, 19%; services, 13.5%; and government (including 
parastatals), 49%. Seychelles is a single party republic, governed by the 
Seychelles People's Progressive Front. The central government budget in 1985 was 
US$65 million, of which 12% went for defense. The gross domestic product was 
US$140 million in 1985, with an annual growth rate of 1.8% and a per capita 
income of US$2100. The annual inflaction rate has averaged 6.5% in recent years. 
Industry includes tourism, reexports, copra, and vanilla processing. Exports in 
1984 totaled US$4.3 million, while imports amounted to US$70.9 million. The 
traditional plantation economy has been phased out. The government is concerned 
about the overdependence of the economy on tourism and its attempting to 
diversify by developing new industries and revitalizing traditional exports such 
as fish. Development goals include expansion of the agriculture and fishery 
sectors, slower population growth, more widespread home ownership, greater 
employment opportunities through labor development, and increased Seychellois 
participation in the economy.

PMID: 12178125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Sep:1-4.

Malawi.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Until the 20th century, migrations and tribal conflicts prevented the 
formation of a cohesive Malawian society. Malawi is mainly comprised of a rural 
populace, and primary school education has only become prevalent since Malawi 
became independent in 1964. Shortly thereafter, Malawi adopted a new 
constitution and became a republic run by a president. The Malawian government 
is a substantially modified version of the British system and the members of the 
presidentially appointed cabinet are either drawn from or become members of 
Parliament. There are 2 judicial systems in Malawi the magisterial court headed 
by a 3-member Supreme Court and traditional courts created in 1964 which are 
based predominantly on the local court system maintained by the British prior to 
independence. There is only 1 authorized political party. Malawi has grown 
economically and has relied on expanding agricultural export as the primary 
vehicle for this growth. Basically, Malawi's economic outlook is favorable 
despite some problems which have caused a setback in the return of robust growth 
so apparent in the 1970s. Malawi has been basically pro-Western and has little 
contact with communist nations. While its political ideology is different from 
that of its bordering neighbors, Malawi has pursued normal relations with them 
and with other reighbors in its region. Relations with the US are quite good and 
their views on the need for economic and political stability in southern Africa 
are in general agreement. The 2 nations exchange dialogue and visits 
periodically.

PMID: 12178126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Oct:1-4.

Guinea.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Guinea is divided into 4 regions and contains 4 major ethnic groups. 
Presently it is governed by the Military Committee for National Redressment, 
headed by a 10-man executive bureau, and with government administration at 5 
governmental levels. In lieu of a constitution, the government, which took 
control in April 1984, is based on ordinances, decrees, and decisions issued by 
the President and various ministers. 1 of the primary objectives of the 
government is the observance of human rights; it has also declared intentions of 
liberalizing the economy, promoting private enterprise, and encouraging foreign 
investment in order to develop the available rich natural resources. Among the 
vast store of minerals are 1/3 of the world's proven bauxite reserves, much iron 
ore tonnage, and diamond, gold, and uranium deposits. Also in 1984, the 
government enacted a new private investment code to stimulate economic activity 
in the spirit of free enterprise. The new economic reform program initiated by 
the government will hopefully create the type of environment conducive to 
productive investments and economic growth. Guinea has an army, a navy, an air 
force, and a gendarmerie. Presently, they are at peace with their neighbors but 
the armed services still work to maintain internal security and defend against 
and deter attacks from other nations. Guinea maintains close ties with the 
communist nations as well as with the Western powers. The current government in 
fact has appealed to all friendly governments as well as multinational agencies 
for aid and technical assistance. Insofar as the US is concerned, it seeks to 
promote closer relations with Guinea and has encouraged regional economic 
development and increased private US investment. Further information on travel 
notes, geography, its people, and its history are included.

PMID: 12178127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Oct:1-8.

Yugoslavia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Yugoslavia was formed on December 1, 1918 from the kingdoms of Serbia and 
Montenegro plus parts of the Turkish and Austro-Hungarian Empire. Its population 
has the greatest ethnic and religious deversity of any in Eastern Europe. The 
main language is Serbo-Croatian. Yugoslavia has worked hard to maintain its 
independence despite pressure from the international Communist organization 
Cominform. Since the 1960s they have been identified as a leader of nonaligned 
nations. 6 republics comprise the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and 
each of these republics has its own government modeled on the federal structure. 
The federal government has executive, legislative, and judicial branches. The 
Constitutional Court rules on the constitutionality of all laws and regulations. 
The League of Communists is the only political party allowed to function; 
however, it does permit open expression of differences on some major policy 
issues. Since the end of World War 2, the Yugoslav economy has become an 
industrialized, midlevel technological economy and the standard of living has 
risen. Yugoslavia has tried to maintain a rough balance in trade relations with 
Western nations, with the socialist bloc, and with the developing world. 
Agricultural production has risen steadily over the years but its full 
poteential has not yet been realized. Yugoslavia has tried to establish friendly 
relations with most states, especially in Western Europe. The US has made an 
effort to support Yugoslavia in its attempt to maintain independence and through 
cultural, commercial, and political involvement has attempted to offer 
alternatives to being dependent on the Soviet Union. Relations have been further 
strengthened by continuing high-level visits by heads of state. While there are 
differences of view on many foreign policy issues, the US has respected 
Yugoslavia's position and has offered continued support.

PMID: 12178128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Nov:1-4.

Fiji.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Fiji is a group of volcanic islands located in the South Pacific. Because 
of the rough terrain in its center, that area is sparsely populated; most of 
Fiji's population live on the island coasts. Almost all indigenous Fijians are 
Christians and English is the official language. In 1970 Fiji became a fully 
sovereign and independent nation within the British Commonwealth. The British 
monarch appoints the governor general who in turn appoints as prime minister the 
leader of the majority party in House of Representatives. The transition to 
independence for Fijians was achieved in a peaceful fashion. While there are 
some racial tensions between the Indo-Fijians and the indigenous Fijians, the 2 
major political parties and the various leaders have succeeded in maintaining 
order. The government of Fiji, since attaining independence, has worked hard 
toward economic and social progress and there have been great strides made in 
education, health, agriculture, and nutrition. The thrust of Fiji's economy is 
sugar and the 2nd component is tourism. Fiji does import a wide variety of goods 
but industrial development is proceeding well. Fiji encourages local and foreign 
investment in the hopes of promoting development and providing industrial jobs. 
Regional cooperation is the main element in Fiji foreign policy they joined the 
UN in 1970. Full diplomatic relations exist between the US and Fiji and US and 
Fijian officials have exchanged visits. In 1985 the US provided $1.5 million in 
disaster relief funds to Fiji; there is expedcted to be a bilateral aid 
agreement between the 2 countries in 1986. Travel notes, government and US 
officials, and further information are included.

PMID: 12178129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Oct:1-6.

Burundi.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Burundi, with 1 of the highest population densities in sub-Saharan Africa, 
is a high, rolling country in the Nile-Congo crest. Of the 3 main ethnic groups, 
the Hutu, about 85% of the population, are primarily farmers. Burundi became 
independent in 1962. Ultimate political power is vested in the Central Committee 
of the sole political party, called the UPRONA. Its members are all those 
citizens of Burundi who profess allegiance to its principles. The Burundi 
government is dedicated to improving the living conditions of the rural poor and 
to ethnic reconciliation and national unity. Over 90% of the population are 
subsistence farmers; Burundi is 1 of the world's poorest countries. Over 80% of 
export earnings are provided by coffee but tea production continues to increase. 
Burundi seeks good relations with its neighbors Rwanda, Zaire, and Tanzania and 
has even entered into joint economic development projects with Rwanda and 
Tanzania. Its armed forces are well-trained and well-equipped and they work to 
keep law and order and to deter foreign interference by neighbors of Burundi. 
The US government keeps friendly relations with Burundi and has encouraged 
efforts to establish political stability and peaceful economic development. The 
US Agency for International Development program development strategy in Burundi 
focuses on promoting food availability, fuel production, and family health. 
Numerous other programs in effect are also mentioned. Principal US officials, 
travel notes, principal government officials, and other information are 
included.

PMID: 12178130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Dec:1-5.

Western Samoa.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Western Samoa, which lies 2575 km northeast of Auckland, 
New Zealand, focuses on the following: geography; the people; history; 
government; political conditions; the economy; foreign relations; and relations 
the US. The population of Western Samoa, as of 1985, totals 163,000 with an 
annual growth rate of 0.9%. The infant mortality rate is 13/1000; life 
expectancy is 65 years. The main islands are formed ranges of extinct volcanoes. 
Volcanic activity last occurred in 1911. More than 2000 years age, waves of 
Polynesians migrated from Southeast Asia to the Samoan Islands. Samoans are the 
2nd largest Polynesian group, after the Maoris of New Zealand, and speak a 
Polynesian dialect. Samoans have tended to retain their traditional ways despite 
exposure to European influence for more than 150 years. Most Samoans live within 
the traditional social system based on an extended family group, headed by a 
chief. Western Samoans are Christian. Education is free but not compulsory. In 
1967, 95% of the children of primary school age attended school. From 1947 to 
1961, a series of constitutional advances, assisted by visits from UN missions, 
brought Western Samoa from dependent status to self-government and finally to 
independence. The 1960 constitution is based on the British pattern of 
parliamentary democracy, modified to take Samoan customs into account. The 
present head of state holds his position for life. Future heads of state will be 
elected by the Legislative Assembly for 5-year terms. The Parliament consists of 
the Legislative Assembly and the head of state. The Supreme Court is the 
superior court of record and has full jurisdiction in civil, criminal, and 
constitutional matters. The "matai" of chief system still dominates the politics 
of Western Samoa, although several political parties have been formed and seem 
to be taking root. The "matai" system is a predominantly conservative force but 
does provide for change. Western Samoa is predominantly agricultural, and the 
village communities maintain an economy based on farming and fishing. Stagnating 
or declining agricultural production has resulted in an increasing dependence on 
imports. The islands have few resources and no deposits of commercially valuable 
minerals. Western Samoa suffers from a persistent current accounts deficit. The 
government's primary goal is to improve agricultural production. Western Samoa 
has particularly close relations with its Pacific island neighbors and New 
Zealand. The US has taken a special interest in Western Samoa's economic 
development.

PMID: 12178131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Feb:1-7.

Central African Republic.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of the Central African Republic is on: geography; 
the people; history and political conditions; government; the economy; foreign 
relations; and relations with the US. The population of the Central African 
Republic totaled 2.7 million in 1985 with an annual growth rate of 2.8%. The 
infant mortality rate is 134/1000 with life expectancy at 49 years. The Central 
African Republic is at almost the precise center of Africa, about 640 km from 
the nearest ocean. More than 70% of the population live in rural areas. There 
are more than 80 ethnic groups, each with its own language. The precolonial 
history of the area was marked by successive waves of migration, of which little 
is known. These migrations are responsible for the complex ethnic and linguistic 
patterns today. United with Chad in 1906, it formed the Oubangui-Chari-Chad 
colony. In 1910, it became 1 of the 4 territories of the Federation of French 
Equatorial Africa, along with Chad, Congo, and Gabon. After World War II, the 
French Constitution of 1946 inaugurated the first of a series of reforms that 
led eventually to complete independence for all French territories in western 
and equatorial Africa. The nation became an autonomous republic within the newly 
established French Community on December 1, 1958, and acceded to complete 
independence as the Central Africa Republic on August 13, 1960. The government 
is made up of the executive and the judicial branches. The constitution and 
legislature remain suspended. All executive and legislative powers, as well as 
judicial oversight, are vested in the chief of state. The Central African 
Republic is 1 of the world's least developed countries, with an annual per 
capita income of $310. 85% of the population is engaged in subsistence farming. 
Diamonds account for nearly 1/3 of export earnings; the industrial sector is 
limited. The US terminated bilateral assistance programs in 1979, due to the 
human rights violations of the Bokassa regime, but modest development assistance 
was resumed in 1982.

PMID: 12178132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Apr:1-7.

Somalia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Somalia focuses on: the people; geography; history; 
government; political conditions; the economy; foreign relations; defense; and 
relations between the US and Somalia. In 1985 the population was estimated to be 
5,400,000 with an annual growth rate of 3%. The infant mortality rate is 
145/1000; life expectancy is 47 years. Somalis have a homogeneous culture and 
identity. About 60% of all Somalis are nomadic or seminomadic pastoralists who 
raise cattle, camels, sheep, and goats. Sizable ethnic groups in Somalia include 
some 35,000 Arabs, about 2000 Italians, and 1000 Indians and Pakistanis. Somalia 
is located on the east coast of Africa north of the Equator and, with Ethiopia 
and Djibouti, is often referred to as the Horn of Africa. Somalia, which lacks 
natural resources and faces many major development challenges, has a principally 
pastoral and agricultural economy. Since independence, from Italy and Great 
Britain, Somalia has followed a foreign policy of nonalignment. After the 
Soviets were expelled, the US reintroduced the Agency for International 
Development program in 1978 and has provided extensive relief to Somali 
refugees.

PMID: 12178133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Oct:1-8.

Algeria.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Algeria is the 2nd largest state in Africa with a population of 22 million, 
45% of which are urban and 57% under the age of 20. Almost all Algerians are 
Muslim. Education has become a real priority in Algeria and there are now more 
than 5 million students. Emphasis has begun to be placed on the establishment of 
technical institutes for training in skill areas needed to supply the nation's 
quickly expanding industrial sector. Presently there is a shortage of housing. 
The government of Algeria is centralized with guidance on fundamental issues 
coming from the periodic congresses of the FLN party and from its central 
committee between congresses. Laws remaining from the French colonial system are 
being amended to meet current Algerian needs. There has been relative political 
stability since 1965. Principal domestic objectives of the Algerian government 
are to achieve economic development through industrialization and increased 
agricultural productivity as well as raising the standard of living. The 
government basically controls the planning, development, and administration of 
the Algerian economy. The current 5-year economic development plan is financed 
heavily by hydrocarbon income. Despite the production of large quantities of 
food, Algeria must import 1/3 of its food to feed its growing population. 
However, at the same time, they provide a substantial amount of assistance to 
many of their neighbors. The armed forces are comprised of about 135,000 members 
and Algeria is considered a leading military power in the region. Its foreign 
policy is considered 1 of independence and nonalignment, and Algeria advocates 
the securing of a greater share of the world's wealth for developing countries 
by getting higher prices for the raw materials they produce. Relations with the 
US have improved since 1969 following the diplomatic break in realtions during 
the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. Most of the major political differences have been 
resolved.

PMID: 12178134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Feb:1-8.

Hungary.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In this discussion of Hungary, attention is directed to the following: 
geography, people, history, government, political conditions, the economy, 
foreign relations, defense, and relations between the US and Hungary. In 1985 
the population totaled 10.7 million with an annual growth rate of 0.2%. The 
infant mortality rate is 20.2/1000 live births; life expectancy is 66 years for 
men and 73.2 years for women. Hungary was a monarchy for almost 1000 years. Its 
constitutional parliamentary system preceded, by several centuries, the 
establishment of such Western-style governments in other East European 
countries. A communist dictatorship seized power in May/June 1947. The Hungarian 
uprising of 1956, although forcibly suppressed by Soviet armed intervention, 
gave impetus to long overdue changes and clearly demonstrated the popular will 
for national identity and internal reform. With the exception of various small 
businesses with few employees, all economic activity is run by state-owned 
enterprises or cooperatives. Agriculture has been collectivized. Hungary has 
rich bauxite mines and provides for most of its coal and natural gas 
requirements. Introduction of the "new economic mechanism" in 1968 ushered in a 
period of rapid growth, accompanied by equilibrium in the balance of trade. Yet, 
in the early 1970s a number of factors combined to blunt the reform effort, and 
in 1977 government leaders recognized the need for a new reform effort. Hungary 
is highly dependent on foreign trade, about 50% of which is with other communist 
countries. Except for the brief and unsuccessful attempt in November 1956 to 
establish a position and course of neutrality for Hungary, the foreign policy of 
the Hungarian government has followed closely the Soviet Union since 1947. In 
recent years, US/Hungarian relations have featured a steady exchange of official 
visits.

PMID: 12178135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 May:1-7.

Costa Rica.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Costa Rica focuses on: geography, people and history, 
government, political conditions, the economy, defense, foreign relations, and 
relations between the US and Costa Rica. In 1985 the population totaled 2.6 
million with an annual growth rate of 2.6%. The infant mortality rate is 
15.2/1000; life expectancy is 67.5 years for men and 71.9 years for women. Costa 
Rica, the 2nd smallest Central American country, is located in a narrow strip 
between Panama and Nicaragua. Costa Ricans are overwhelmingly of European 
descent. Although preominantly Spanish, there also are many Costa Ricans of 
German, Dutch, and Swiss origin. The indigenous Indian population numbers about 
20,000, 20% fewer than inhabited Costa Rica when the Spanish first settled in 
1522. Blacks, descendants of 19th century Jamaican immigrant workers, constitute 
a significant English-speaking minority of 30,000. Costa Rica is a democratic 
republic with a strong systems of checks and balances. The president and 57 
legislative assembly deputies are elected for 4-year terms. Costa Rica's 
political system has contrasted with that of its neighbors. The nation has 
steadily developed and maintained democratic institutions and an orderly, 
constitutional process of government succession. Costa Rica faces severe 
challenges to its economic stability, although traditionally it is one of the 
strongest nations in the region. Increases in government spending in the late 
1970s and higher world prices for coffee and other important Costa Rican exports 
stimulated the economy, creating inflationary pressure. The government is 
pursuing a course of disciplined management. The country is an outsponken and 
active member of the international community. The cordial relationship between 
Costa Rica and the US is based on mutual respect for democratic traditions, 
common goals, and a relationship free from serious political disagreement.

PMID: 12178136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Dec:1-8.

Saudi Arabia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Saudi Arabia's population stood at 9.6 million, with an annual 
growth rate of 2.8%. The infant mortality rate was 78/1000 and life expectancy 
was 60 years. Literacy was at the 50% level among men and 25% among women. Of 
the work force of 3 million, 66% are foreign workers. The labor force is 
distributed as follows: agriculture, 14%; industry, 11%; services, commerce, and 
government, 53%; construction, 20%; and oil and mining, 2%. The GDP was US$98.1 
billion in 1985-86, with an annual growth rate of 8% and a per capita GDP of 
$9800. Under the impact of rapid economic growth, urbanization has advanced 
rapidly and 95% of the population is now settled. Saudi Arabia, a monarchy, is 
divided into 14 provinces that are governed by princes or relatives of the royal 
family. Oil is the major source of foreign exchange, contributing 81% of 
government revenues. Ample government funds and foreign exchange resources are 
available for development, defense, and aid to other Arab and Islamic countries. 
The government has sought to allocate its petroleum income to transform its 
relatively undeveloped oil-based economy into that of a modern industrial state 
while maintaining traditional Islamic values. The standard of living of most 
Saudis has improved significantly. A shortage of skilled workers at all levels 
remains the principal obstacle to rapid development.

PMID: 12178138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jul:1-8.

Afghanistan.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Afghanistan covers: the people, geography, history 
(European influence, reform and reaction, Daoud's Republic and the April 1978 
coup, and the Soviet invasion), government and political conditions, the economy 
(agriculture, trade and industry, transportation, economic development), foreign 
relations, and relations between the US and Afghanistan. In 1985, the population 
was estimated to be 11 million (plus about 2.7 million refugees in Pakistan and 
1 million refugees in Iran and the west). The annual growth rate is negative 
because of the war. In 1971 the UN estimate of infant mortality was 181.6/1000 
live births with life expectancy 36.6 for men and 37.3 for women. Afghanistan's 
ethnically and linguistically mixed population reflects its location astride 
historic trade and invasion routes leading from central Asia into South and 
Southwest Asia. The dominant ethnic group, the Pukhtuns, make up about 40% of 
the population. Afghanistan has had a turbulent history. All of Afghanistan's 
rulers until the Marxist coup of 1978 were from Durani's tribe, and, since 1818, 
all were members of that tribe's Mohammadzai clan. Afghanistan is primarily an 
agricultural country, despite the fact that only 15% of its total land area is 
viable. This sector employs 3/4 of the working population and accounts for more 
than half of the gross domestic product. The Afghan economy remains tightly tied 
to that of the Soviet Union, its largest trading partner. Although Afghan has no 
railways or navigable rivers, the Amu Darya (Oxus) River on the Soviet-Afghan 
border does carry barge traffic. The Soviets pledged more than $300 million in 
new aid in 1984 and disbursed more than $400 million in commodities and new 
project aid. They signed a further agreement granting additional credits in 
February 1985. Since the December 1979 Soviet invasion, Afghanistan's foreign 
policy has mirrored that of the Soviet Union. The US has never recognized the 
Kabul regime and strongly opposes the Soviet invasion and continued occupation.

PMID: 12178139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jun:1-8.

Argentina.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Argentina covers geography, the people, history and 
political conditions, government, economy, foreign relations, and relations 
between the US and Argentina. In 1985, the population of Argentina was estimated 
to be 30.6 million with an estimated annual growth rate of 1.5%. The infant 
mortality rate is 34.1/1000, and life expectancy is 70.2 years. Argentina, which 
shares land borders with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay, is 
bounded by the Atlantic and the Antarctic Oceans. Descendants of Italian and 
Spanish immigrants predominate in Argentina, but many trace their origins to 
British and West and East European ancestors. In recent years, there has been a 
substantial influx of immigrants from neighboring Latin American countries. The 
native Indian population, estimated to be 50,000, is concentrated in the 
peripheral provinces of the north, northwest, and south. What is now Argentina 
was discovered in 1516 by the Spanish navigator Juan de Solia. The formal 
declaration of independence from Spain was made on July 9, 1816. In the late 
19th century, 2 forces worked to create the modern Argentine nation: the 
introduction of modern agricultural techniques and the integration of Argentina 
into the world economy. Argentina has impressive human and natural resources, 
but political conflict and uneven economic performance since World War II have 
impeded full realization of its considerable potential. Yet, it is one of the 
wealthiest countries in Latin America. Among the reasons for the military coup 
of March 1976 was the deteriorating economy, caused by declining production and 
rampant inflation. Under the leadership of the Minister of the Economy, the 
military government focused attention on those immediate problems, and, in 1978, 
embarked on a new development strategy focusing on the establishment of a free 
market economy. There was little improvement in the economy, and a new economic 
plan was introduced in 1985 which has capped inflation by introducing wage and 
price controls. Agricultural products constitute a major source of foreign 
exchange earnings. Argentina pursues a pragmatic, ideologically pluralistic 
foreign policy, maintaining relations with almost all countries. The US and 
Argentina have maintained diplomatic relations since 1823. Both countries have 
sought to maintain a harmonious, constructive relationship based on reciprocal 
respect and understanding.

PMID: 12178140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jul:1-7.

Sierra Leone.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In this discussion of Sierra Leone, attention is directed to the people, 
geography, history, government and political conditions, the economy, foreign 
relations, defense, and relations between the US and Sierra Leone. The 
population of Sierra Leone was estimated to be 3.7 million in 1985 with an 
annual growth rate estimated at 2.3%. Life expectancy is 46 years. 18 ethnic 
groups make up the country's indigenous population; the Temne in the north and 
the Mende in the south are the largest. Sierra Leone is located in the western 
part of the great bulge of West Africa. Most of the 20th century history of the 
colony was peaceful, and independence was accomplished without violence. The 
1951 constitution provided the framework for decolonization. Independence came 
in 1961, and Sierra Leone became a parliamentary system within the British 
Commonwealth. In April 1971, it adopted a republican constituion, cutting the 
link to the British monarchy but remaining within the Commonwealth. Sierra Leone 
is rich in minerals and has relied upon the mining sector, in general, and 
diamonds, in particular, for its economic base. In the 1970s and early 1980s, 
economic growth rates slowed due to a decline in the mining sector that had 
eroded the export base. About 75% of the population engages in subsistence 
agriculture, and, although most of the population derives their livelihood from 
agriculture, it accounts for only 30% of the national income. Government 
development plans have focused increasingly on agriculture, with efforts 
directed toward increasing food and cash crop production and upgrading small 
farmer skills. Sierra Leone has followed a foreign policy of nonalignments, 
although historically it has maintained cordial relations with the West, 
particularly with the UK and the US. The country's military force is 
well-trained and well-disciplined but is hampered by a small budget and 
insufficient materiel. At this time, relations between the US and Sierra Leone 
are cordial, although historic and other ties between the 2 countries are 
limited. US aid has concentrated on projects in education, agriculture, rural 
development, health, and human resources development.

PMID: 12178141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Jul:1-8.

Morocco.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Morocco covers geography, the people, history, the 
government, political conditions, the economy, foreign relations, and relations 
between Morocco and the US. In 1984, the population of Morocco totaled 22.8 
million. The 1983 annual growth rate was 2.6%. Morocco lies at the northwest 
corner of Africa, with only the Strait of Gibraltar separating it from Europe. 
Topographically, Morocco is sharply divided into open, agriculturally rich 
plains in the northwest and economically poor mountians and plateaus in the east 
and south. Most Moroccans are Sunni Muslims of Arab, Berber, or mixed 
Arab-Berber stock. Most of 100,000 foreign residents are French or Spanish. 
Arabic is the official and principal language. Morocco's strategic location has 
shaped its history. Beginning with the Phoenicians, many foreigners have come to 
this area, some to trade or settle and others as invaders. The Kingdom of 
Morocco recovered its political independence from France on March 2, 1956. The 
King is chief of state, and his son, the Crown Prince, is heir apparent. Under 
the 1972 constitution, a prime minister appointed by the King is head of 
government. Morocco has 6 principal political groups and 2 smaller ones. The 
country, rich in human and natural resources, is beginning to develop a 
socioeconomic infrastructure. The economy grew rapidly from 1967 to 1977, but 
beginning in 1978, a series of external shocks and a cycle of domestic drought 
revealed weaknesses ineconomic policies and structures. By 1983, the country was 
no longer able to service the heavy foreign debt. Although Morocco has rapidly 
urbanized and industrialized over the past decade, agriculture remains the 
biggest single determinant of its economic health. 42% of the work force is 
employed in agriculture. Since Morocco attained independence, its foreign policy 
has been basically sympathetic to the West. FormaL US-Moroccan relations date to 
1787, when the 2 nations negotiated a Treaty of Peace and Friendship. Current 
relations are characterized respect and friendship.

PMID: 12178142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 May:1-8.

Burma.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Burma's population stood at 36,392,000 in 1985, with an annual growth rate 
of 2%. The infant mortality rate was 96/1000 live births and life expectancy was 
57 years. The literacy rate was 66%. Of the work force of 14.8 million, 66% are 
engaged in agriculture, 12% work in industry, 10% are in trade, and 11% are 
employed by the government. The government is a socialist republic. Burma's 
gross domestic product was US$6.5 billion in 1984-85, with an annual growth rate 
of 1-4% and a per capita income of $179. The government aims to establish a 
centrally controlled economy, although private enterprises have been allowed to 
operate in the agricultural sector. Economic progress has been hindered by 
widespread political insurgency and weak markets for export commodities.

PMID: 12178143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Apr:1-8.

Chile.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, Chile's population stood at 12 million, with an annual growth rate 
of 1.7%. 1984's infant mortality rate was 20/1000 live births and life 
expectancy was 67 years. The literacy rate was 94%. Of the work force of 
3,841,000 in 1985, 15.9% were engaged in agriculture, forestry, and fishing; 
31.3% were employed in industry and commerce; 38.6% were in the service sector; 
8.7% worked in mining; and 4.4% were employed in construction. Chile's military 
junta is scheduled to be replaced by an elected legislature in 1990. The GDP was 
US $19.2 billion in 1984, with an annual real growth rate of 6.3%, and per 
capita GDP stood at US$1590. Inflation averages 23%. Industry comprises 21% of 
the GDP. Longterm prospects for the Chilean economy are influenced by a high 
debt service ratio, very low domestic savings and investment, the prospect of 
little or no increase in copper prices, and continuing problems in the domestic 
financial sector. In 1985-88, under the International Monetary Fund 
macroeconomic program, Chile will strive for moderate economic growth while 
managing its external debt servicing burden.

PMID: 12178144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 May:1-7.

[North] Korea.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: In 1985, the population of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North 
Korea) stood at 20 million, with an annual growth rate of 2.3%. The infant 
mortality rate was 30/1000 live births and life expectancy was 66 years. The 
gross national product (GNP) was US$23 billion in 1984, with a per capita GNP of 
$1175. Both North Korea's labor force and natural resources have been 
concentrated in recent years on an effort to achieve rapid economic development. 
During the early 1970s, a large-scale modernization program involving the 
importation of Western technology, primarily in the heavy industiral sectors of 
the economy, was attempted and resulted in a massive foreign debt. North Korea 
has a strongly centralized government under the control of the communist Korean 
Workers' Party. Literacy in the country is at the 99% level. Medical treatment 
is free. There is 1 physician/600 population and 1 hospital bed/350 inhabitants.

PMID: 12178145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Backgr Notes Ser. 1986 Apr:1-8.

Mali.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: Mali's population stood at 7.5 million in 1985, with an annual growth rate 
of 2.7%. The infant mortality rate was 152/1000 live births and life expectancy 
was 45 years. Literacy was only 10%. Of the work force of 3.5 million, 73% were 
engaged in agriculture, 12% were employed in industry and commerce, and 16% were 
in the service sector. Mali's GDP was US$1.2 billion in 1981, with an annual 
growth rate of 1.5% and a per capita income (1984) of $190. Mali is among the 10 
poorest countries of the world. The agricultural sector, which provides 43% of 
the gross domestic product, is dominated by small-scale traditional farming and 
there have been problems with droughts. Deposits of several ores exist but are 
not mined because of inadequate transportation and power facilities. Mali is a 
single-party republic governed by the Democratic Union of the Malian People.

PMID: 12178146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Demogr Res. 1999 Jul 1;1(1):[28] p.. doi: 10.4054/demres.1999.1.1.

Finnish life tables since 1751.

Kannisto V, Turpeinen O, Nieminen M.

PIP: This paper presents the completed series of life tables from 1751 to 1995 
that was used in identifying the four stages of mortality transition in Finland, 
separated by the years 1880, 1945, and 1970. The series documents all the 
different stages of mortality transition from high to low levels in an 
originally agricultural country experiencing many wars, famines, and other 
crises, as well as major political change. The cyclical fluctuation of the death 
rate in the 18th and 19th centuries is measured and examined in relation to 
epidemics, famines, and wars. Important permanent changes in mortality also took 
place in this period. Each of the successive stages of transition produced its 
own characteristic pattern of mortality change, which contrasted with those of 
the other stages. Finally, the age profile of the years added to life is drawn 
to illustrate the end result of each stage of mortality transition.

DOI: 10.4054/demres.1999.1.1
PMID: 12178149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Demogr Res. 1999 Aug 25;1(3):[22] p.. doi: 10.4054/demres.1999.1.3.

Longevity and month of birth: evidence from Austria and Denmark.

Doblhammer G.

PIP: This study investigates the relationship between month of birth and life 
span. It uses 2 different data for total populations in Austria and Denmark. The 
Austrian data are based on vital statistics of the exact data of birth and the 
exact date of death for each person dying after age 50 between 1988 and 1996. 
The Danish data consist of the total population aged 50+ on April 1, 1968. These 
people were then followed until their death or until August 1998. Results 
suggest that life span and month of birth were in fact related. Evidences were 
presented to support or argue the three hypotheses being tested that explain the 
relationship between month of birth and longevity. Overall, many studies support 
that this pattern was not the result of the seasonal distribution of death. And 
the longevity cannot be explained by the so-called ¿birthday-effect¿--the 
alleged tendency of people to die shortly after their birthday. Instead, the 
study concluded by discussing the possible social and biological mechanisms 
related to a person's season of birth that might influence life expectancy.

DOI: 10.4054/demres.1999.1.3
PMID: 12178151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Demogr Res. 2000 Sep 12;3:[24] p.. doi: 10.4054/demres.2000.3.6.

Measuring the compression of mortality.

Kannisto V.

Compression of mortality is measured here in four ways: 1) by standard deviation 
of the age at death above the mode; 2) by standard deviation of the age at death 
in the highest quartile; 3) by the inter-quartile range; and 4) by the shortest 
age interval in which a given proportion of deaths take place. The two 
first-mentioned are directed at old ages, while the other two measure 
compression over the entire age range. The fourth alternative is recommended as 
the most suitable for general use and offers several variations, called the 
C-family of compression indicators. Applied to historical and modern 
populations, all four measures show convincingly that the secular transition 
from high to low mortality has been accompanied by general and massive 
compression of mortality. In recent decades, however, this development has come 
close to stagnation even when life expectancy continues to increase. This has 
happened at a level where compression is still so incomplete that the shortest 
age interval in which 90% of deaths occur, is 35 years. It seems unrealistic to 
expect human mortality ever to be compressed into so narrow an age interval that 
the survival curve would even approximately rectangular. It is considered useful 
to monitor changes in the compression of mortality because the indicators 
describe relevant aspects of the length of life and may acquire new significance 
as indicators of population heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.4054/demres.2000.3.6
PMID: 12178156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Hist Soz Forsch. 1998;23(1-2):275-98.

[Religion and demographic behavior: Upper Kassel, 1670-1810].

[Article in German]

Horning E.

PIP: "With the sample of a village of 670 inhabitants (1810), it is investigated 
whether the religious denomination, Catholic or Calvinist, has any influence on 
the demographic behaviour of a rural population. A well developed knowledge of 
denominational consciousness was observed; there were few interfaith marriages 
or conversions and the differences in the naming of children were distinctive. 
There were not such big differences in the demographic behaviour. As examples, 
the age at marriage, premarital sexuality (over 20% of births were premarital 
conceptions) and the number of births were nearly equal. In life expectancy 
there was a seven year denominational difference. All women were noticeable by 
their low number of births, high age at marriage and high age at last birth. 
Family limitation was achieved through birth spacing, particularly by Protestant 
women after the third child onwards. In sum, a large degree of this rural 
population's demographic behaviour was observable, but only a few were 
influenced by denominational or religious norms." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12178160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Hist Soz Forsch. 1996;21(4):24-55.

Fertility of populations as a function of the attained level of life expectancy 
in the course of human evolution.

Langner G.

"¿Aging societies' with increasing life expectancies of the average of all their 
members are facts in modern history that are disputed by nobody. What is 
disputed by the most renowned names in demography, however, is that aging 
populations are a consequence of the fall in mortality and thus the increase in 
life expectancy. It is claimed that the [principal] reason for ¿aging' is to be 
found in a drop in fertility. In this sense today's demographers regard as a 
standard result: ¿Variations in fertility are of more significance for the age 
structure of populations than variations in mortality'. In the following paper 
this thesis, which is based on a neo-Malthusian interpretation of the role of 
fertility in the demographic process, will be questioned."

excerpt

PMID: 12178162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Hist Soz Forsch. 1998;23(1-2):299-326.

[Estimation of infant mortality and life expectancy in the time of the Roman 
Empire: a methodological examination].

[Article in German]

Langner G.

PIP: "The first available written source in human history relating to the 
description of the life expectancy of a living population is a legal text which 
originates from the Roman jurist Ulpianus (murdered in AD 228). In contrast to 
the prevailing opinion in demography, I not only do consider the text to be of 
¿historical interest'...but to be a document of inestimable worth for evaluating 
the population survival probability in the Roman empire. The criteria specified 
by Ulpianus are in line with the ¿pan-human' survival function as described by 
modern model life tables, when based on adulthood. Values calculated from tomb 
inscriptions follow the lowest level of the model life tables as well and 
support Ulpianus' statements. The specifications by Ulpianus for the population 
of the Roman world empire as a whole in the ¿best fit' with modern life tables 
lead to an average level of 20 years of life expectancy. As a consequence a high 
infant mortality rate of almost 400 [per thousand] can be concluded resulting in 
no more than three children at the age of five in an average family in spite of 
a high fertility rate." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12178163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1993 Apr;1(4):1-2.

Thailand population statistics.

[No authors listed]

PIP: A few statistics on population for Thailand are reported for April 1, 1993. 
Total population is determined to be 58,113,000 of which 29,039,000 are males 
and 29,074,000 are females. The urban population was 17,852,000 and the rural 
population was 40,261,000. Regional distribution showed population in the north 
to be 9,443,000, in the northeast to be 19,590,000, in the south to be 
7,107,000, and in the center excluding Bangkok to be 14,517,000. The population 
of Bangkok Metropolitan area was 7.5 million. Age distribution was 16.7 million 
under the age of 15 years, 19.4 million 6-21 years, 37.1 million 15-59 years, 
4.2 million 60 years and older, and 35.3 million 20 years and older. There were 
15,002,000 women in the reproductive ages of 15-44 years. The crude birth rate 
was 17.4/1000 population. The crude death rate was 5.9/1000 population. Infant 
mortality was 35.5/1000 live births. The natural growth rate was 1.15%. Life 
expectancy at birth was 66.4 years for males and 71.8 years for females. Life 
expectancy at 60 years was 17.9 years for males and 21.2 years for females. The 
total fertility rate was 2.2/woman. Contraceptive prevalence was 75.0%. 
Estimated population in the year 2012 is expected to be 71,310,000. A graph 
provides the projected number of living children per 1000 aged 12 years or 
younger who would be born to mothers with HIV infection and the number who would 
be orphans between 1990 and 2000. 350,000 children 12 years and under are 
expected to be born to HIV-infected mothers in the year 2000.

PMID: 12178167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1994 Jul:[2] p.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1994.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of July 1, 1994, was 58,686, 
of which 29,326 were male and 29,360 were female. 18,533 live in urban areas and 
40,153 live in rural areas. 11,467 live in the northern region, 19,947 to the 
northeast, 7289 in the South, 12,876 centrally, and 7289 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 16,902 were under age 15, 37,500 were aged 15-59, and 4284 were aged 
60 and over. There were 15,150 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and 
death rates per 1000 population were 17.6 and 5.8, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.2%. Infant mortality was 34.13 per 1000 live births. 
Male and female life expectancies at birth were 67.7 and 72.4 years, 
respectively. Further life expectancy at age 60 for males and females were 18.8 
and 22.0 years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 1.95, 
with a contraceptive prevalence rate of 75.0% and an anticipated population of 
71,637 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1994 Oct;3(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of October 1, 1994.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research.

PIP: As of October 1, 1994, Thailand's population was comprised of 29,413,000 
males and 29,448,000 females, 18,588,000 of whom resided in urban areas. 
11,501,000 lived in the North, 20,007,000 to the Northeast, 7,310,000 in the 
South, 12,732,000 in central Thailand excluding Bangkok, and 7,311,000 in the 
Bangkok metropolis. 16,952,000 were under 15 years old, 19,682,000 aged 6-21, 
37,612,000 aged 15-59, 35,793,000 aged 20 and over, and 4,297,000 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,195,000 women aged 15-44. The crude birth rate was 
17.6/1000, crude death rate 5.8/1000, natural growth rate 1.2%, and infant 
mortality rate 34.13 per 1000 live births. Male and female life expectancies at 
