birth were respectively 67.7 and 72.4 years, while male and female life 
expectancies at 60 were 18.8 and 22.0. Rates of total fertility per woman and 
contraceptive prevalence were respectively 1.95 and 75.0%. The population is 
projected to total 71,637,000 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1995 Jan;3(3):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of January 1, 1995.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of January 1, 1995, was 
58,995, of which 29,480 were male and 29,515 were female. 18,630 live in urban 
areas and 40,365 live in rural areas. 11,851 live in the northern region, 19,208 
to the northeast, 7385 in the South, 12,798 centrally, and 7753 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 16,990 were under age 15, 37,698 aged 15-59, and 4307 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,230 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 17.4 and 6.1, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.1%. Infant mortality was 30.9 per 1000 live births. 
Male and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, 
respectively. Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 
18.8 and 22.0 years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 
1.95 with a contraceptive prevalence rate of 74.0% and an anticipated population 
of 70,995 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1995 Apr;3(4):[2] p.

[Population statistics] as of April 1, 1995.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: A one-page compendium of population data as of April 1, 1995, was provided 
for Thailand. Total population reached 59,160,000: 29,562,000 males and 
29,598,000 females, and 18,683,000 in urban and 40,477,000 in rural areas. 
Regional distribution of population was 11,884,000 in the North region, 
19,262,000 in the Northeast, 7,406,000 in the South, 12,834,000 in the Central 
(excluding Bangkok Metropolis), and 7,774,000 in Bangkok Metropolis. The age 
distribution of the population was as follows: 17,038,000 under 15 years old; 
37,803,000 aged 15-59 years; 4,319,000 over 60 years old; 19,782,000 aged 6-21 
years; 38,226,000 aged 18 years and older; 35,975,000 aged 20 years and older; 
and 15,273,000 women 15-44 years old. The crude birth rate was 17.4 per 1000 
population. The crude death rate was 6.1 per 1000 population. The natural growth 
rate was 1.1%. The infant mortality rate was 30.9 per 1000 live births. Life 
expectancy at birth was 66.6 years for males and 71.7 years for females. Life 
expectancy at 60 years was 18.8 additional years for males and 22.0 additional 
years for females. The total fertility rate was 1.95 per woman. Contraceptive 
prevalence was 74.0%. Projected population in 2012 was 70,995,000 persons. Among 
youth 15-24 years old, 9% of rural single males and females, 25% of other urban 
single males, and 45% of single Bangkok males lived away from parents. 34% of 
single other urban females and 31% of single Bangkok females lived away from 
parents. In rural areas, 36% of married males and 42% of married females lived 
away from parents. In other urban areas, 64% of married males and 75% of married 
females lived away from parents. In Bangkok, 99% of married males and 81% of 
married females lived away from parents.

PMID: 12178171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1995 Jul 1;4(1):1.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1995.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of July 1, 1995, was 59,450, 
of which 29,707 were male and 29,743 were female. 18,774 live in urban areas and 
40,676 live in rural areas. 11,942 live in the northern region, 19,356 to the 
northeast, 7443 in the South, 12,897 centrally, and 7812 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 17,122 were under age 15, 37,988 aged 15-59, and 4340 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,347 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 17.6 and 5.2, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.2%. Infant mortality was 30.8 per 1000 live births. 
Male and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, 
respectively. Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 
18.8 and 22.0 years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 
1.95 with a contraceptive prevalence rate of 74.0% and an anticipated population 
of 71,860 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1994 Jan;2(3):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of January 1, 1994.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: This one-page sheet, dated January 1, 1994, provides statistical 
information on population by sex, residence, region, age, and other measures of 
growth and health in Thailand. Total population is listed as 58,482,000 
(29,223,000 males and 29,259,000 females). The population size projected for the 
year 2012 is 71,414,000. Urban population numbers 17,966,000, while rural 
population is 40,516,000. The most populous regions are the Northeastern Region 
with 19,715,000 inhabitants and the Central Region (excluding Bangkok Metro 
area) with 14,609 inhabitants. The Northern Region has 9,503,000 inhabitants, 
Bangkok Metropolis has 7,503,000, and the Southern Region has 7,152,000. 
15,098,000 are women in the childbearing ages. 16,843,000 are aged under 15 
years, and 4,269,000 are aged 60 years and older. The crude birth rate is 
18.5/1000 population. The crude death rate is 6.4/1000 population. The natural 
growth rate is 1.2%. Infant mortality is 34.5/1000 live births. Life expectancy 
at birth is 67.7 years for males and 72.4 years for females. Total fertility is 
1.95 children/woman. Contraceptive prevalence is 75.0%. The graph of two-year 
migrants shows the peak ages for single moves to be 20-24 years (23.5%). 
Seasonal moves and repeat moves are much smaller in slope and never rise higher 
than about 5%.

PMID: 12178173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1994 Apr;2(4):1-2.

[Thailand population statistics] as of April 1, 1994.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: This one page profile gives population statistics for April 1994 in 
Thailand. Total population is estimated to be 58,656,000 persons, of whom 
29,310,000 were male and 29,346,000 were female. The population was 18,019,000 
in urban areas and 40,637,000 in rural areas. Regional population was 
distributed as follows: 7,532,000 in the Northern Region, 19,773,000 in the 
Northeastern Region, 7,174,000 in the Southern Region, 14,652,000 in the Central 
Region excluding Bangkok Metropolis, and 7,525,000 in Bangkok Metropolis. 
35,669,000 women were of reproductive age (15-44 years). As regards the general 
population, 19,614,000 were aged 6-21 years, 35,669,000 were aged 20 years or 
older, 16,893,000 were aged under 15 years, 37,481,000 were aged 15-59 years, 
and 4,282,000 were aged 60 years or older. The crude birth rate was 18.5/1000 
total population. The crude death rate was 6.4/1000 total population. The 
natural growth rate was 1.2%. The infant mortality rate was 34.5/1000 live 
births. Life expectancy at birth was 67.7 years for males and 72.4 years for 
females. Life expectancy at 60 years was 18.8 years for males and 22.0 years for 
females. The total fertility rate was 1.95 children/woman. Contraceptive 
prevalence was 75.0%. Population is expected to increase to 71,414,000 persons 
in the year 2012. A separate graph indicates the estimated numbers of child 
prostitutes based on five different assumptions about total numbers of 
commercial sex workers in 1993.

PMID: 12178174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1996 Jan;4(3):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of Jan 1, 1996.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: Population statistics are given for Thailand as of January 1, 1996. Total 
population was 59,709,000 (29,837,000 males and 29,872,000 females). Urban 
population was 18,856,000, and rural population was 40,853,000. Population is 
concentrated in the Northeastern Region (19,440,000), followed by the Central 
Region excluding Bangkok Metropolis (12,954,000) and the Northern Region 
(11,994,000). Population for the Southern Region was 7,475,000, and for Bangkok 
Metropolis it was 7,846,000. Population included 17,196,000 under 15 years of 
age and 4,359,000 aged 60 years and older. Most of the population was in the 
15-59 age group (38,154,000). There were 15,414,000 women aged 15-44 years. The 
crude birth rate was 17.6/1000 population and the crude death rate was 5.2/1000 
population. The natural growth rate was 1.2%. Infant mortality was 30.8/1000 
live births. Life expectancy at birth was 66.6 years for males and 71.7 years 
for females; life expectancy at 60 years was 18.8 years for males and 22.0 years 
for females. The total fertility rate was 1.95 children/woman. Contraceptive 
prevalence was 74.0%. The population projection for the year 2012 is 70,479,000. 
It is expected that population will reach 60 million in June 1996.

PMID: 12178175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1996 Jul;5(1):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1996.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of July 1, 1996, was 59,781, 
of which 29,873 were male and 29,908 were female. 18,879 live in urban areas and 
40,902 live in rural areas. 12,009 live in the northern region, 19,464 to the 
northeast, 7484 in the South, 12,969 centrally, and 7855 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 17,217 were under age 15, 38,200 aged 15-59, and 4364 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,421 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 15.6 and 5.0, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.1%. Infant mortality was 29.0 per 1000 live births. 
Male and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, 
respectively. Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 
18.8 and 22.0 years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 
1.95 with a contraceptive prevalence rate of 74.0% and an anticipated population 
of 70,835 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1997 Jan;5(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of January 1, 1997.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of January 1, 1997, was 
60,103, of which 30,034 were male and 30,069 were female. 18,981 live in urban 
areas and 41,122 live in rural areas. 12,074 live in the northern region, 19,568 
to the northeast, 7524 in the South, 13,039 centrally, and 7898 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 16,197 were under age 15, 38,856 aged 15-59, and 5050 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,558 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 15.6 and 5.0, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.1%. Infant mortality was 25.0/1000 live births. Male 
and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, respectively. 
Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 18.8 and 22.0 
years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 1.95, with a 
contraceptive prevalence rate of 75.2% and an anticipated population of 70,627 
in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1997 Jul;6(1):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1997.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of July 1, 1997, was 60,440, 
of which 30,202 were male and 30,238 were female. 19,087 live in urban areas and 
41,353 live in rural areas. 12,141 live in the northern region, 19,678 to the 
northeast, 7566 in the South, 13,112 centrally, and 7943 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 16,288 were under age 15, 39,073 aged 15-59, and 5079 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,558 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 15.6 and 5.0, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.1%. Infant mortality was 25.0 per 1000 live births. 
Male and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, 
respectively. Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 
18.8 and 22.0 years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 
1.98 with a contraceptive prevalence rate of 72.2% and an anticipated population 
of 70,642 in the year 2012.

PMID: 12178178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1999 Jul;8(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1999.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: Reported in tabular form are population statistics published by the 
Institute for Population and Social Research, Mahidol University, in Thailand, 
as of July 1, 1999. The three objectives of the table were 1) to present the 
most recent estimates of relevant population numbers and vital rates twice a 
year, 2) to provide the most accurate demographic estimates possible through the 
use of standard techniques of demographic analysis, and 3) to disseminate the 
demographic data to Thailand, and international researchers and planners. The 
table shows statistics on the following elements: total population; population 
by sex; population in urban and rural areas; population by region; population by 
age group; crude birth and death rates; natural growth rate; infant mortality 
rate; life expectancies at birth and at 60 years and over; total fertility rate; 
contraceptive prevalence rate; and median age. A new basis for age estimates is 
also presented.

PMID: 12178180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1998 Jul;7(1):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 1998.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: This article presents estimates of relevant population numbers and vital 
rates in Thailand as of July 1, 1998. Utilizing the standard demographic 
techniques of analysis, the estimates provided are assured to be the most 
accurate demographic estimates possible. Total population was estimated at 
61,143,000. Estimates by sex, locales, region, and by age group are included. In 
addition, the crude birth rate per 1000 population was estimated at 18.7; the 
crude death rate per 1000 population was 6.5. For the natural growth rate the 
estimate was at 1.2%, and the infant mortality rate was 25.0 per 1000 live 
births. In terms of life expectancy at birth, the estimate for males was 69.9 
years, while for females it was 74.9 years. Additional years in life expectancy 
at age 60 were 20.3 years for males and 23.9 years for females. The total 
fertility rate per woman is 1.98, and contraceptive prevalence is 72.2%. The 
demographic data will be disseminated to Thai and international population 
researchers and planners.

PMID: 12178182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 2000 Jan;9(1):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of January 1, 2000.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: This table presents the population statistics of Thailand as of January 1, 
2000. Thailand has a total population of 61,737,000; 30,726,000 are males and 
31,011,000 are females. The urban areas have a population of 18,972,000, while 
the rural areas have a population of 42,765,000. The population numbers, by 
region, are the following: northern, 12,117,000; northeastern, 20,164,000; 
southern, 7,957,000; central (excluding Bangkok Metropolis), 13,654,000; Bangkok 
Metropolis, 7,845,000. Children (under age 15) numbered 14,764,000; labor force 
participants (ages 15-59), 41,647,000; the elderly (ages 60-79), 4,974,000; 
those aged 80 and above, 352,000; the school-age population (ages 6-21), 
16,703,000; reproductive-age women (ages 15-44), 16,697,000; and the voting 
population (ages 18 and over), 43,691,000. The crude birth rate (per 1000 
population) is 16.4, and the crude death rate is 6.5. Thailand has a natural 
growth rate of 1.0% and an infant mortality rate (per 1000 live births) of 22.4. 
Life expectancy at birth among males and females is 69.9 and 74.9, respectively. 
The total fertility rate is 1.9/woman, the contraceptive prevalence rate is 
72.2%, and the ratio of females per 1 male is 1.0 for ages 0-59, 1.1 for ages 
60-79, and 2.0 for ages 80 and over.

PMID: 12178183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1998 Jan;6(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of January 1, 1998.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: In thousands, Thailand's total population as of January 1, 1998, was 
60,763, of which 30,363 were male and 30,400 were female. 19,127 live in urban 
areas and 41,636 live in rural areas. 11,363 live in the northern region, 20,720 
to the northeast, 8021 in the South, 13,550 centrally, and 7109 in the Bangkok 
metropolis. 16,375 were under age 15, 39,282 aged 15-59, and 5106 aged 60 and 
over. There were 15,728 women of reproductive ages 15-44. Crude birth and death 
rates per 1000 population were 17.3 and 6.5, respectively, with an overall 
natural growth rate of 1.1%. Infant mortality was 25.0/1000 live births. Male 
and female life expectancies at birth were 66.6 and 71.7 years, respectively. 
Further life expectancies at age 60 for males and females were 20.3 and 23.9 
years, respectively. The rate of total fertility per woman was 1.98, with a 
contraceptive prevalence rate of 72.2%.

PMID: 12178184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 1995 Oct;4(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of Oct 1, 1995.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: The publication of these statistics is part of an effort to provide current 
demographic estimates for Thailand every three months. The tabulated data 
pertain to October 1995. Estimates are provided for the following demographic 
measures: total population (59,627,000); male population (29,796,000); female 
population (29,831,000); urban population (18,830,000); rural population 
(40,797,000); population by region: northern region (11,978,000), northeastern 
region (19,413,000), southern region (7,464,000), central region excluding 
Bangkok Metro (12,936,000), and Bangkok Metropolis (7,836,000); population by 
age group: under 15 years (17,172,000), 15-59 years (38,102,000), 60 and over 
(4,353,000), 6-21 years (19,939,000), 18 years and over (38,528,000), 20 years 
and over (36,259,000), and women aged 15-44 years (15,393,000); crude birth rate 
per 1000 population (17.6), crude death rate per 1000 population (5.2); natural 
growth rate (1.2%); infant mortality rate per 1000 live births (30.8); male life 
expectancy at birth (66.6 years); female life expectancy at birth (71.7 years); 
male life expectancy at age 60 (18.8 years); female life expectancy at age 60 
(22.0 years); total fertility rate (1.95); contraceptive prevalence rate 
(74.0%); and projected population for the year 2012 (71,860,000). A chart gives 
the estimated percentage of cumulative deaths from AIDS by age group in 2000 and 
2005.

PMID: 12178185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Mahidol Popul Q Gaz. 2000 Jul;9(2):1-2.

[Population statistics] as of July 1, 2000.

Mahidol University. Institute for Population and Social Research IPSR.

PIP: This Mahidol Population Gazette presents Thailand's population and 
demographic estimates as of July 1, 2000, using the standard techniques of 
demographic analysis. The paper provides estimates of Thailand's total 
population, population by sex, population in urban and rural areas, population 
by region, and by age group. In addition, figures of crude birth and death are 
listed per 1000 population, natural growth rate, and infant mortality rate per 
1000 live births, male and females' life expectancy at birth and at age 60, 
total fertility rate, contraceptive prevalence rate. The number of the aged 
population in 2020 is also presented. Presented in a bar graph is a population 
pyramid for Thailand in the year 2000, illustrating male and females' age and 
year of birth.

PMID: 12178186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Chron CEPED. 1993 Summer;(10):2-3.

[Vietnam and its population].

[Article in French]

Veron J.

PIP: Viet Nam's 1993 population of 72 million makes it the second largest 
country of Southeast Asia after Indonesia. Viet Nam's demographic transition is 
underway, but growth is still a rapid 2% annually, a sufficiently high rate to 
hinder socioeconomic development. The 1979 and 1989 censuses and the 1988 
Demographic and Health Survey are the major recent sources of data on Viet Nam's 
population. Marriage is universal in Viet Nam. Men marry at 24.5 and women at 
23.2 years on average. Fertility estimates based on nonadjusted census data 
indicate a total fertility rate for 1988-89 of 3.8 overall, 2.2 in urban areas, 
and 4.3 in rural areas. Regional differences resulting from contraceptive usage, 
educational differentials, and tabus regarding spacing are strong. The average 
household size is 5. Viet Nam's first fertility reduction policy was announced 
in 1963 and sought to improve the welfare of women to increase their 
productivity for the war effort. More recent family planning policies are based 
on the view that rapid demographic growth is one of the great obstacles to 
development. The objectives of the current policy are to reduce the growth rate 
to 1% by the end of the century, increase contraceptive prevalence, delay 
arrival of the first child, limit family size to 2 children or 3 for ethnic 
minorities, and increase birth intervals from 3 to 5 years. The program is 
voluntarist in nature but includes incentives and disincentives. Life expectancy 
at birth in 1989 was 67.5 years for women and 63 for men. Infant mortality was 
37/1000, with regional differentials. The principal causes of hospital deaths 
are tuberculosis, malaria, and diarrhea. Objectives of the current health policy 
are to prevent infectious diseases, reinforce primary health care services, 
promote traditional medicine, achieve self-sufficiency in basic medicines, and 
improve environmental health and access to clean water. Viet Nam is one of the 
most densely populated Southeast Asian countries and is still 80% rural. The 
population is concentrated in the Red River delta, the Mekong delta, and the 
southeastern region including Ho Chi Minh City. The 4 main cities are Ho Chi 
Minh City with 3.2 million inhabitants,. Hanoi with 1.1 million, Hai Phong with 
456,000, and Da Nang with 371,000. Although internal migration has not yet 
assumed great weight, there has been some rural exodus and movement from poor to 
richer regions. The policy of population redistribution to reduce density in the 
Red River delta and central coastal plain and to control city growth has led to 
some movement. 88% of the population over 10 was literate in 1989. Almost 75% of 
the population over age 13 is economically active. 71% of the economically 
active population is employed in agriculture, 12% in industry, and 7% in 
commerce. If current growth trends continue, Viet Nam is projected to have a 
population of 80 million in 2000 and 96 million in 2014.

PMID: 12178203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Chron CEPED. 1995 Jan-Mar;(16):1-4.

[African populations and AIDS].

[Article in French]

Vallin J.

PIP: This work discusses uncertainties in current knowledge of the probable 
effects of AIDS on African population growth, and describes a new publication of 
the French Center for Population and Development (CEPED) on the likely social 
and demographic consequences of AIDS in Africa. Tropical Africa entered into the 
demographic transition later than most of the developing world, and is still 
largely at the stage when mortality has declined but fertility remains high. The 
UN projects that today's African population of 700 million will increase to 2.5 
billion by 2050. It is often assumed that Africa is too economically, 
politically, and ecologically fragile to support such massive growth, and that 
war, famine, or pestilence will inevitably intervene. It is then suggested that 
AIDS will fill this role. However, the plagues that afflicted Europe and that 
serve as a model of possible effects in Africa did so at a time of technological 
backwardness and of very slow population growth. It is likely that AIDS in 
Africa will not result in an ultimately smaller population, but rather that it 
will slow the transition and stabilization, because mortality decline is in 
effect the main motor of the transition. Population data of all kinds are scarce 
in Africa, and epidemiologic data are even scarcer. Broad predictions are 
possible, but the influence of specific phenomena, such as the AIDS epidemic, 
are much more difficult to discern. The first chapter of the CEPED work, 
"African Populations and AIDS", summarizes existing knowledge of the biological 
dynamics of HIV infection and discusses the most common opportunistic infections 
in Africa. The second chapter describes the evolution of the epidemic in Africa, 
which is characterized by great contrasts in seroprevalence rates within 
countries, regions, and subgroups of populations. The optimal foundations for 
AIDS control programs are identified based on the principal modes of 
transmission and the important role of cofactors. High-risk sexual behaviors 
should be reduced, other sexually transmitted diseases should be treated and 
prevented, the blood supply should be controlled, and existing AIDS-control 
programs should be reinforced. The third chapter examines demographic aspects of 
the AIDS epidemic. It demonstrates the effects of the average number of sexual 
partners and of the average age difference between the partners on the 
prevalence of infection, and shows that average life expectancy has already been 
affected in countries with high seroprevalence rates. It also shows that 
demographic growth persists even with high seroprevalence rates. The final 
chapter explores the principal economic, social, and ultimately political 
consequences of AIDS, both those already obvious and those likely to appear in 
the future.

PMID: 12178206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Bull Eugen Soc. 1982 Jun;14(2):46-52.

Demographic ageing in Denmark in the twentieth century.

Leeson GW.

"In the twentieth century the Danish population has, in demographic terms, aged 
considerably, the proportion of the population aged 60 years and over having 
increased from 9.8 to 19.6 per cent. The expected population development for the 
remainder of this century suggests that this ageing will continue until about 
1990, after which the effects of previous fertility experience will reduce the 
proportions of elderly. Although the proportion of elderly begins to decrease 
after 1990, the number of persons aged 85+ by the year 2000 is expected to 
increase substantially."

excerpt

PMID: 12178249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Scholast Update. 1984 Mar 2;116(13):8.

Culture, survival, and family size.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Judith Jacobson, senior researcher at the Worldwatch Institute which 
analyzes economic and social issues, states that people have large families for 
about as many reasons as there are different cultures. The reasons include 
carrying on the family name, show of "macho" by the father, or force of habit, 
i.e., doing what their poverty stricken families and neighbors have always done. 
These traditions did not simply develop by chance. Throughout history, a high 
death rate coincided with the high birthrate. If a couple wanted 2 or 3 
children, they had several more, assuming -- often correctly -- that at least a 
few of their children would die of any number of diseases. In addition there 
were and continue to be economic reasons for big families. Working children add 
to thefamily income, and they are a kind of pension plan, looked to for support 
during old age. Thus, the desire for big families is deeply rooted in many 
cultures. At present, in less developed nations, medicines and pesticides have 
eradicated many diseases and increased life expectancy. Infant mortality has 
dropped markedly in the last 25 years, but there has not been a matching drop in 
birthrates, especially in rural areas. The result is that poor nations' 
populations are growing about twice as fast as needed to replace those dying. 
The result in some rural areas has been hunger and even starvation. Rural people 
and their problems are often easier to ignore than the unrest of city dwellers. 
Many governments provide jobs and keep food prices low in cities where political 
opposition is more likely to start. This urban rural gap tends to widen as 
population grows. Low wages for the poorest rural residents drop when there are 
more available workers for the same amount of land. This creates another 
dimension of the population problem -- migration to the cities and to foreign 
countries.

PMID: 12178307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Jing Ji Lun Wen. 1997 Sep;25(3):269-316.

Quality of life and economic evaluation.

Sen A.

The author examines "the place and role of quality of life in economic 
evaluation and welfare economics. That exercise certainly involves norms and 
judgments, but it is also influenced by our reading of factual possibilities, 
and it influences, in its turn, the nature of prescriptive possibilities we 
explore and the descriptive statements we choose to make. In this sense, the 
topic is not confined to welfare economics and involves other branches of 
economics as well." This essay consists of two lectures, the second of which 
examines how longevity, life expectancy, and gender- and race-determined 
mortality differences can contribute to our understanding of quality of life.

excerpt

PMID: 12178375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Jing Ji Lun Wen. 1983 Sep;11(2):31-59.

[Trends of phase-specific life expectancy in postwar Taiwan].

[Article in Chinese]

Tsay C.

The decline in mortality in Taiwan since World War II is analyzed using life 
tables. "Special features of the research include (1) a phase-of-life-specific, 
rather than an age-specific, analysis of mortality, and (2) the use of measures 
based upon person-years of life in phase intervals, rather than survival rates 
or expectation of life at given ages. The empirical results suggest that the 
mortality decline can be described as a two-stage process: an initial stage of 
substantial improvement in life expectancy between 1950 and 1965, and a final 
stage of slow gain in life expectancy since 1965." Age and sex variations in 
mortality and differing rates of mortality decline are noted. Implications of 
increased longevity for economic and social programs are also considered. 
(summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12178384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Ann IFORD. 1987 Jun;11(1):1-142.

[The population of Nanga-Eboko: findings of the July 1983 census].

[Article in French]

Badiane W, Bangue B, Boukpessi T, Emmanuel C, Dakuyo LM, Gaigbe Togbe V, Ganga 
AD, Murara J, Mvilakanda G, Ntahomvukiye J.

PIP: This document from the Institute of Demographic Training and Research 
(IFORD) presents results of a training census conducted and analyzed by IFORD 
students. The census of the semirural town of Nanga-Eboko, Cameroon, was 
conducted in July 1983, after a preliminary census of the school population in 
March and April which will be analyzed and published separately. 10,478 
residents were enumerated, of whom 8780 were present and 1698 mostly young 
people were absent. 846 visitors were also counted. 4138 male and 4642 female 
residents were present, while 777 male and 921 female residents were absent. 
Some errors were detected in age declaration, but the Whipple and Myers indexes 
together showed that age declaration was not too unsatisfactory and that it was 
better among males. 43.7% of the population was under 15, 49.9% was 15-59, and 
6.2% was 60 and over. 46.9% of the total population was male and 53.1% female. 
The average ages were 21.7 for males and 24.7 for females. Each ethnic group had 
the same young age structure as the total population. 67.3% were Catholic, 24.4% 
Protestant, and 2.8% Muslim. 1% of the population was foreign born, with persons 
of African origin accounting for 78%. The major ethnic groups were the Yaounde 
1, the Bamileke, the Beti, the Bantu, the Boulou, and the Bassa. 1909 households 
were enumerated, and the average household size was 5.49. 17.1% of households 
had only 1 person and 15.9% had 10 or more. 26.2% of household heads were women, 
60.1% were married men, and 13.9% were single persons. Among males aged 12 or 
over, 53.5% were single, 33.8% had 1 wife, 5.9% had 2 wives, 1.3% had 3 wives, 
3% had 4 or more wives, 2.4% were widowed, and 2.8% were divorced. Among women 
12 and over, 38.7% were single, 27.8% were in monogamous and 14.4% in polygamous 
marriages, 13.8% were widows, and 5.3% were divorced. 18.2% of married men were 
polygamous, and married men had an average of 1.24 wives each. The average 
marriage age was 27.2 for men and 23.5 for women. Fertility appeared to be 
underestimated in the data, probably due to omission of births by older women. 
The crude birth rate was estimated at 40.8/1000. A high proportion of women 
beginning in the 35-39 cohort had never had children. Fertility was higher among 
the more educated women, while female labor force participation had little 
effect. Fertility patterns are changing because of increased school attendance 
among young women and better health and sanitary conditions. Life expectancy at 
birth is estimated at 58.1 years and the infant mortality rate at 72/1000 live 
births. Nanga-Eboko lacks any significant industry but it is an important center 
of migration because of its schools. School attendance is almost universal among 
children 6-12 and 63% of the population aged 15-19 attends secondary school. 39% 
of the population 10 or over is economically active. 18.6% of males and 46.3% of 
females aged 10 or over are illiterate.

PMID: 12178514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Ann IFORD. 1987 Dec;11(2):37-52.

[Population and development in Africa: what future?].

[Article in French]

Sala-diakanda M.

PIP: This work uses available data to assess the relationship between 
socioeconomic indicators of essential needs and population in Africa. The aims 
are to demonstrate achievements over the past decade or 2 as well as to indicate 
the enormous tasks still to be accomplished if Africa is to surmount its social 
and economic difficulties. In 1985, Africa's total population was estimated at 
slightly over 500 million, unevenly distributed throughout the continent. Africa 
has 1 of the highest population densities per cultivable hectare in the world, 
and it also has the highest rates of population increase at about 2.9%/year. 
42-46% of the population is under 15 and the population will continue to grow 
younger for some time. With its current growth rate, Africa is not projected to 
achieve a stable population until around 2110, about 80 years after Europe. The 
continent will have a total population of some 2.1 billion, about 20% of the 
world's population vs. 10% in 1984. Although there is no adequate theoretical 
model of the relationships between social and economic development and 
population, it is increasingly admitted that Africa's rapidly growing population 
is an obstacle to economic development. Comparison of available data for around 
1960 and 1980 for different countries indicates that considerable progress has 
been made in African countries over the past 2 decades in the proportion of the 
population literate, in educational attainment at all levels, in mortality 
control and life expectancy, in the proportion of the population employed in 
industries and services, in availability of health services, in per capita gross 
national product, and in transportation facilities. But the past 2 decades have 
also been increased public debt, galloping inflation, rapid population growth in 
urban areas and insufficient agricultural production, and progressive decline in 
per capital agricultural production. The unmet needs in primary school 
attendance and health care, housing, employment, and delivery of services of all 
kinds are enormous and increase in direct proportion to population growth. In an 
effort to assess past development efforts and to plan strategies for future 
development, African heads of state met in Lagos in 1980 and agreed to adopt a 
regional approach based on collective self-sufficiency. Special attention was to 
be given to rural development and satisfaction of the needs of the neglected 
rural population. It is hoped that the different decisions and recommendations 
resulting from the 1980 conference will be implemented in individual countries 
and at the regional level to correct the developmental lag between Africa and 
other world regions.

PMID: 12178522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Geog. 1990 Mar-Apr;89(2):64-7. doi: 10.1080/00221349008979597.

Infant mortality and life expectancy in the Arab world.

Nijim BK.

This exercise illustrates the concept of spatial correlation, the categorizing 
of data for mapping, and the use of the scatter diagram. It employs the 
variables of infant mortality and life expectancy as applied to the Arab World, 
though any region can be used. The factor of oil exports is added to enhance 
discussion of the findings. An extra advantage of the exercise is the learning 
of names of countries in a relatively painless way. The exercise teaches both 
content and methods of interpretation, and it is adaptable to high school and 
college levels.

DOI: 10.1080/00221349008979597
PMID: 12178546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Wirtsch Stat. 1991 Jan;(1):28-32.

[Marriages, births, and deaths, 1989].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: Information is presented on marriages, births, and deaths in 1989 in both 
West and East Germany. Comparative data for earlier years since 1970 are also 
provided. Topics discussed include marriages by previous marital status, age at 
marriage, illegitimate births, age-specific birth rates, and life expectancy.

PMID: 12178582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Wirtsch Stat. 1991 Jun;(6):371-81.

[General life table, 1986-1988].

[Article in German]

Meyer K, Paul C.

PIP: The methods used in preparing life tables for West Germany for the period 
1986-1988 are described. The tables are based on the 1987 census. Major results 
of the life tables are then presented, and comparisons are made with data for 
1970-1972 and earlier years.

PMID: 12178584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Wirtsch Stat. 1992 Feb;(2):73-81.

[Private households yesterday and today: a look back at the past 150 years].

[Article in German]

Bretz M, Niemeyer F.

PIP: Changes in the demographic and social structure of private households in 
Germany over the last 150 years are reviewed. Topics covered include household 
size, fertility and life expectancy, unrelated household members, number of 
generations living together, households with children, one-parent households, 
nonmarital cohabitation, and age structure. Statistics for East Germany are 
included where possible.

PMID: 12178586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Wirtsch Stat. 1993 Sep;(9):644-50.

[Marriages, births, and deaths 1990 and 1991].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: Vital statistics for Germany are presented for the years 1990 and 1991. 
Emphasis is on the situation in the former East Germany, as well as comparisons 
between East and West. Topics discussed include the decline in marriages, 
births, and deaths in 1991; marriages by previous marital status and age; births 
by legitimacy, mother's age, and mother's nationality; and life expectancy.

PMID: 12178590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Wirtsch Stat. 1995 Jun;(6):446-51.

[Marriages, births, and deaths, 1993].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: Information is presented on marriages, births, deaths, and life expectancy 
in Germany in 1993. Comparisons are made between the former East and West 
Germany, and some data for earlier years are also provided.

PMID: 12178603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Wirtsch Stat. 1996 Jun;(6):351-6.

[Marriages, births, and deaths, 1994].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: Information is presented on marriages, births, deaths, life expectancy, and 
stillbirths in Germany in 1994. Special attention is given to comparisons 
between the former East and West Germany. Some data for earlier years are also 
provided.

PMID: 12178606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Wirtsch Stat. 1997 Apr;(4):220-5.

[Marriages, births and deaths, 1995].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: This is a report on marriages, births, and deaths in Germany in 1995. 
Comparisons are drawn between the former East and West Germany. A continuing 
increase in marriage age is noted, as is an increase in the age of mothers. Life 
expectancy continues to increase as well.

PMID: 12178610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Wirtsch Stat. 1998 Mar;(3):232-8.

[Marriages, births, and deaths, 1996].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: This report of marriages, births, and deaths in Germany summarizes changes 
and trends in 1996. As in previous years, there were fewer marriages, and the 
trend toward higher age at marriage continued. There was a significant increase 
in the number of births and in the total fertility rate, and the number of 
births to women over 30 continued to increase. There were fewer deaths, and life 
expectancy continued to rise. The report draws some comparisons between the 
former East and West Germany, and also looks at past trends.

PMID: 12178614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Wirtsch Stat. 1998 Dec;(12):960-70.

[Mortality in Germany compared to regional and European trends].

[Article in German]

Sommer B.

PIP: Life tables for all of Germany for the period 1993-1995 are presented in 
this report. Life expectancies of newborns and those of men and women 60 years 
old are discussed separately. The author also looks at infant mortality and 
compares age-specific mortality among the German states. Finally, she analyzes 
recent changes in newborn life expectancy and briefly compares life expectancy 
in Germany with that in the rest of Europe.

PMID: 12178616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Wirtsch Stat. 1987 Apr;(4):319-25.

[A regional comparison of mortality from selected causes].

[Article in German]

Kern KD, Braun W.

PIP: In this study of mortality in the Federal Republic of Germany, the author 
describes methods used in and results of a regional study of causes of death by 
state. The data analyzed are for the years 1980-1985. Causes compared include 
carcinoma; circulatory, respiratory, and digestive system diseases; accidents; 
and suicide. Tables provide information on death according to selected causes 
and state, 1980-1985; life expectancy at birth by state, 1970-1972 and 
1980-1985; and deaths by cause and state for people up to age 75 based on the 
1980-1985 life tables. Results indicate that despite general decreases in 
mortality and increases in life expectancy, regional differences persist.

PMID: 12178631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Wirtsch Stat. 1992 Feb;(2):82-7.

[Mortality in regional comparison: general life tables for the 11 former 
states].

[Article in German]

Paul C.

PIP: Life tables for the 11 states of West Germany for the period 1986-1988 are 
presented and discussed. The data are based on the 1987 census. Regional 
differences in life expectancy and probability of death are analyzed.

PMID: 12178635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Wirtsch Stat. 1982;(12):899-903, 813*.

[Divorces in 1981].

[Article in German]

Germany, Federal Republic of. Statistisches Bundesamt.

PIP: Statistics are presented on divorces in the Federal Republic of Germany in 
1981. General trends since 1950 are first reviewed, and divorce rates by age and 
duration of marriage are analyzed. Comparisons are then made between two tables 
of marital dissolution, one based on divorces and the other on dissolutions 
through death. Possible future trends in divorce are also discussed.

PMID: 12178676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Wirtsch Stat. 1984 Jan;(1):13-24, 16*-8*.

[Development of mortality].

[Article in German]

Proebsting H.

PIP: Trends in mortality in the former German Empire and the Federal Republic of 
Germany over the past 105 years are investigated. Differences in mortality by 
age, sex, marital status, occupation, and educational status are analyzed, and 
the effects of changing mortality patterns on the age structure of the 
population are examined. Selected causes of death and their impact on life 
expectancy are also briefly considered. A separate section is devoted to infant 
mortality, including regional differentials within the Federal Republic of 
Germany.

PMID: 12178682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Wirtsch Stat. 1984 Feb;(2):102-6, 47*-8*.

[Divorces, 1982].

[Article in German]

Braun W.

PIP: Information is presented on divorces in the Federal Republic of Germany in 
1982, with some comparative data for earlier years. Consideration is given to 
divorce rates by age at marriage and duration of marriage, cohort and period 
trends, and marriage duration tables. An attempt is made to determine whether 
the current high divorce rate is a short-term phenomenon or part of a long-term 
trend.

PMID: 12178683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Wirtsch Stat. 1985 Mar;(3):233-40, 100*-2*.

[The influence of major causes of death on mortality and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Kern KD, Braun W.

PIP: The impact of major causes of death on mortality and life expectancy in the 
Federal Republic of Germany is analyzed using official data for 1970 to 1983. 
Causes of death examined include cancer; diseases of the circulatory, 
respiratory, and digestive systems; accidents; and suicides. The effect of 
eliminating individual causes of death is assessed.

PMID: 12178689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Wirtsch Stat. 1985 Dec;(12):921-31.

[Marriage tables for single Germans, 1980-1983].

[Article in German]

Braun W, Proebsting H.

PIP: Marriage tables for single German men and women are presented for the 
Federal Republic of Germany in 1980-1983. The data are based on official 
sources. The methodology used in preparing the tables is first described. The 
results are then discussed, and comparisons are made with tables for earlier 
years and with cohort tables. Trends in the age-specific probability of marriage 
are noted.

PMID: 12178691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Wirtsch Stat. 1986 Feb;(2):107-12.

[Nuptiality tables for widowed Germans for 1979-1982 and divorced Germans for 
1980-1983].

[Article in German]

Braun W, Proebsting H.

PIP: Nuptiality tables for widowed and divorced Germans are presented by sex 
using official data from the Federal Republic of Germany. The data on widowed 
persons are for 1979-1982, and those on divorced persons are for 1980-1983. 
Trends in marriage and divorce since 1910 are first reviewed. Major results of 
the tables are then discussed, and comparisons are made with similar tables for 
1972-1974 and with tables for single persons. The findings indicate a decline in 
the probability of remarriage.

PMID: 12178692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

