
411. Vestn Statistiki. 1987;(3):78-80.

[Statistical materials].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Tsentral'noe Statisticheskoe Upravlenie.

PIP: Data are presented on coefficients of population reproduction, 1958-1985; 
infant mortality by month, 1985; and life tables, 1984-1985.

PMID: 12178704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Vestn Statistiki. 1987;(12):31-9.

[Average life expectancy of the population of the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

Dmitrieva R, Andreev E.

PIP: Mortality trends in the USSR from the middle of the nineteenth century to 
the present day are analyzed, with a focus on changes in life expectancy. The 
authors note that life expectancy increased up to 1964-1965, declined 
subsequently, and stabilized during the 1980s. Life expectancy has again started 
to rise since 1985. More detailed analyses of mortality differentials by sex and 
age and for the rural and urban populations are included. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12178705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Vestn Statistiki. 1987;(12):44-53.

[The population of the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Tsentral'noe Statisticheskoe Upravlenie.

PIP: Official population data for the USSR for 1986 and 1987 are presented. 
Tables are included on age and sex distribution; rural and urban population; 
birth, death, and natural increase rates, 1970-1986; fertility and mortality by 
sex, 1970-1986; birth order; age-specific birth rates by rural and urban area 
and Union republic; age-specific death rates, 1970-1986; infant mortality, 
1970-1986; life expectancy, 1926-1986; life tables; marriage and age at 
marriage; and divorce.

PMID: 12178707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Vestn Statistiki. 1989;(1):41-64.

[Women and children in the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Gosudarstvennyi Komitet SSSR po Statistike.

PIP: Selected official data concerning women and children in the USSR are 
presented. Data are included on percentage of women in the urban and rural 
population by republic, women in the labor force, female educational status and 
occupations, marital status, mothers with children, life expectancy, health 
care, birth rate, infant mortality, child care, and education.

PMID: 12178714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Vestn Statistiki. 1990;(10):35-40.

[New information from the State Committee on Statistics of the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Gosudarstvennyi Komitet SSSR po Statistike.

PIP: Selected data concerning the USSR are presented. They concern vital 
statistics by republic for 1989 for rural and urban areas, birth order, life 
expectancy by sex, and population change and vital statistics for cities with a 
population over one million.

PMID: 12178723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(8):73-9.

[Demographic problems of military reform in the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

Kvasha A.

PIP: The author discusses future reforms in the procedures for drafting 
personnel into the Soviet army. The analysis is based primarily on the 
experiences of armies in Western countries. The author also takes into 
consideration peculiarities of the political and economic structures in the 
USSR, as well as the attitude of the Soviet people toward military service. The 
demographic situation at the end of the twentieth and the beginning of the 
twenty-first century is examined, as is the possibility that a decrease in 
fertility, worsening life expectancy, and increase in international migration 
could make the military draft process even more complicated. Data for cohorts 
born in 1972, 1977, 1982, and 1987 are used as illustrations. The possibility of 
developing an alternative service is suggested.

PMID: 12178731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(7):17-24.

[Some unique characteristics of the demographic situation in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Brui B, Mikhailov E.

PIP: The authors briefly describe the demographic situation in the Russian 
Soviet Federated Socialist Republic, using data from the 1989 census and current 
demographic research. Changes in the birth rate and population growth are 
examined, and migration flows in the various regions of the republic are 
compared. Factors affecting low birth rates are analyzed, and trends in 
marriage, divorce, mortality, and life expectancy are explored.

PMID: 12178735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(7):8-14.

[Future developments in population statistics].

[Article in Russian]

Isupov A.

PIP: The author examines the development of population statistics in the USSR. 
The transition from past policies of secrecy to current availability of 
population statistics is described, and various methods of data collection and 
utilization are discussed. Information is included on trends in mortality, 
infant mortality, life expectancy at birth, and population projections to the 
year 2015.

PMID: 12178737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(7):24-9.

[Mortality and life expectancy of the population in the active ages].

[Article in Russian]

Veselkova I.

PIP: The author analyzes recent mortality trends in the USSR. Differences 
according to sex, Union republic, and urban or rural area are examined. Reasons 
for increased mortality rates are considered, and primary causes of death are 
described.

PMID: 12178739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(7):69-80.

[Statistical materials].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Gosudarstvennyi Komitet SSSR po Statistike.

PIP: This is a summary of demographic statistics for the USSR and its 
constituent republics for the period 1959-1991. Tables include data on 
population size; rural and urban population; average annual population growth; 
population by age group; fertility; life expectancy at birth and at selected 
ages; infant mortality by cause of death, 1989; and mortality of the active 
population by cause of death, 1989.

PMID: 12178741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Vestn Statistiki. 1992;(1):52-66.

[Women in the nation].

[Article in Russian]

Russia. Goskomstat SSSR.

PIP: A selection of statistical data on women in the former Soviet Union is 
presented for the years 1979, 1989, 1990, and 1991. The data concern number of 
women by republic and by age group; marriage, divorce, and birth rates; number 
of household members and singles; infant mortality; abortion and natality; life 
expectancy; single mothers; education; and employment.

PMID: 12178744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Vestn Statistiki. 1981;(11):34-42.

[Measurement and analysis of demographic processes: the characteristics of 
generation].

[Article in Russian]

Volkov A.

PIP: Since it would take too long (100 years) to ascertain all demographic data 
about a given age group, i.e., all those born in a given year, these data are 
determined hypothetically by measuring the various characteristics of persons of 
all ages in a given time period (1-2 years). Also needed is an indicator of the 
population as a whole; cumulative coefficients are used for this purpose. One of 
these is the overall coefficient of births, meaning the number of children a 
women would have over her whole period of fertility if she had the precise 
number of children at each period in her life as other women of that age. An 
analogous indicator is used for measuring mortality--the average life expectancy 
of a person at each stage in his life. The crude coefficient of population 
reproduction represents the number of girls to which each woman will give birth 
between the ages of 15 and 50. This has to be corrected by the number of those 
who will not live to reproductive age. The result is the corrected coefficient 
of reproduction of the female population. This coefficient is often thought to 
reflect the population's growth prospects; if less than unity, therefore, the 
population will not reproduce itself. This is an incorrect interpretation. The 
impact of immigration and emigration on the population must also be 
incorportated. In addition to the above hypothetical indicators, we must also 
develop real population indicators. Techniques must also be employed to evaluate 
the reliability of these demographic indicators.

PMID: 12178755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Vestn Statistiki. 1990;(1):41-64.

[Women in the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Gosudarstvennyi Komitet SSSR po Statistike.

PIP: This is a selection of statistical data on women from the 1989 Soviet 
census. The data include total female population by republic; rural and urban 
female population; women's age distribution, income, labor force participation, 
educational status, and life expectancy; marriage and divorce; birth weight of 
children born to unmarried women; induced abortion; maternal mortality; and 
infant mortality.

PMID: 12178762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Vestn Statistiki. 1991;(2):36-52.

[Women in the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Gosudarstvennyi Komitet SSSR po Statistike.

PIP: This is a selection of statistical data on women in the USSR; it covers the 
period 1970-1989. Tabular data are provided on the number of women by Union 
republic; the number of women and men by age group and rural or urban area; 
women's educational levels, sources of income, and occupations; family size for 
the whole country and for rural and urban areas; women's marital status by age; 
marriages and divorces; divorce by women's education, age, and number of 
children; birth rate by Union republic and by nationality; abortion and 
childbirth for selected years and by Union republic; maternal deaths by Union 
republic; infant deaths; and female life expectancy.

PMID: 12178766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Vestn Statistiki. 1986;(1):17-21.

[Levels and changes in the length of the economically active life of the 
population].

[Article in Russian]

Kruminya I.

PIP: Life tables for the length of an individual's working life in the USSR are 
presented using 1970 data for the Latvian Republic.

PMID: 12178825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Vestn Statistiki. 1986;(12):71.

[Statistical materials. Part 3: life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
age-specific death rates].

[Article in Russian]

USSR. Tsentral'noe Statisticheskoe Upravlenie.

PIP: Official data are presented in this one-page item on average life 
expectancy by sex in the USSR from 1926-1927 to 1985; infant mortality by sex, 
1970-1985; and age-specific death rates, 1969-1970 to 1984-1985.

PMID: 12178832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. NPG Forum Ser. 1989 Dec:1-4.

How to get there from here: the demographic route to optimal population size.

Bouvier LF.

PIP: Most Americans have a "built-in bias" towards growth. 25 years ago, 
Americans were concerned with too much growth. Zero population growth was 
accepted as a goal. The American perception has turned around in the last 
quarter century. From 1957, with a peak of 3.7, US fertility fell below the 
level needed to replace the population and reached 1.8 in 1972. Not all growth 
is good. 3 demographic variables account for all population size changes. In any 
young population, there is a growth momentum that is "built-in." In talking 
about the next 60-90 years demographic mathematical models show what would 
happen under constant conditions. The best known is the stable model. A stable 
condition comes about if age-specific birth and death rates remain constant over 
a long period of time. A stable population shows a constant growth rate. "No 
growth" is described as "stationarity." In 1982, migration was included in the 
open, stable model. There is a momentum for growth in the US population. It is 
assumed life expectancy will increase in future years. Fertility and immigration 
should be balanced. There is not much that can be done about fertility. Much, 
however, can be done to immigration. A maximum population of 300 million with 
decline starting before 2080 is practical. Lowering fertility to 1.5 live births 
per women is possible. Not too many Americans want to entirely end immigration. 
There are problems with advocating that zero population growth be at current 
levels, or lower. Some increases will happen because of the build-in growth 
momentum.

PMID: 12178970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. NPG Forum Ser. 1990 Jul:1-6.

Balancing humans in the biosphere: escaping the overpopulation trap.

Costanza R.

PIP: Cultural evolution has allowed humans to change their behaviors and adapt 
to new conditions much faster than biological evolution. The most critical of 
these is the overpopulation trap, caused by the imbalance between the short-term 
incentives to have children and the longterm social and ecological costs of 
having too many. This process of short-run incentives getting out of sync with 
longterm goals has been called social traps, as the decision maker is trapped by 
the local conditions into making a bad decision viewed from a longer 
perspective. The biological and cultural incentives to procreate combined with 
rapid reductions in mortality have changed the long-run ecological cost 
structure. The elimination of social traps requires intervention by education 
(about the longterm, distributed impacts), insurance, superordinate authority 
(legal systems, government, religion), and converting the trap to a trade-off. 
In a sense, this is an extension of the polluter pays principle. Summary 
suggestions: establish a hierarchy of goals for national and global ecological 
economic planning and management, sustainability should be the primary longterm 
goal, replacing the current GNP growth mania; develop better global ecological 
economic models about the interrelated impacts of population, per capita 
resource use, and wealth distribution; adjust current incentives to reflect 
long-run, global costs, including uncertainty; and allow no further decline in 
the stock of natural capital by taxing natural capital consumption. The US 
population in 1986 was about 240 million. Current technology and consumption 
patterns from renewable energy alone could sustain about 85 million people, or 
about 35% of the current population, or with a more equitable distribution 170 
million at a high quality life style on renewable energy alone.

PMID: 12178976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. ICPD 94. 1994 Jun;(16):3.

Study projects demographic impact of AIDS in Africa.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Based on the United Nations study, "AIDS and the Demography of Africa", 
population growth rates will remain high in African countries south of the 
Sahara despite high mortality due to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
The Population Division of the UN Department for Economic and Social Information 
and Policy Analysis (DESIPA) incorporated the demographic impact of AIDS in its 
biennial population estimates and projections for Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
Central African Republic, Congo, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 9 million 
additional deaths due to AIDS are projected by 2005; 61% will occur in Uganda, 
Zaire, Tanzania, and Zambia. From 2000 to 2005, the average life expectancy for 
the region (51.2 years) will be 6.5 years lower than that without AIDS; that in 
Uganda (42.9 years) will be 11.1 years less. Mortality is increasing and its 
hardest impact will be during the prime working and family care years. 
Socioeconomic effects may include reductions in the size and productivity of the 
labor force, decreased industrial and agricultural production, and changes in 
care of children and the elderly. Due to high fertility rates, however, 
population increases are projected for all 15 countries. Although its nearly 
12.4 million years less (4%) than that expected without the effect of AIDS, the 
total population for the region is projected to be 297.9 million by 2005. The 
address for obtaining the document discussed is listed with the price.

PMID: 12178992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. ICPD 94. 1994 May;(15):3.

IMF / World Bank boards of governors discuss population, migration.

[No authors listed]

PIP: A brief presentation was given of the statements Dr. Nafis Sadik, Executive 
Director of the UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and Secretary General 
of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), made 
before a meeting of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank on 
resource flows to developing countries, population, international trade, and 
migration. The meeting was attended by finance ministers from 24 countries. The 
IMF Managing Director gave an overview at the meeting of the world economic 
situation and the need for international assistance for effective population and 
family planning programs. Dr. Sadik emphasized this need as a requirement for 
implementation of the 20-year ICPD Programme of Action. The increased investment 
was considered beneficial because it would increase life expectancy, lower 
demand for health and education services, reduce pressure in the job market, 
reduce economic hardship, and increase social stability. The growth of 
prosperity was considered by Dr. Sadik to be tied to increased demand for 
housing, energy, and utilities. A slower and more balanced population growth 
would allow for government services to meet demands and for the world to adjust 
to increasing numbers of people. Several ministers supported the call for 
increased funding of population programs and poverty reduction programs. A 
special communique by ministers recognized that the connections between economic 
growth, population, poverty reduction, health, investment in human resources, 
and environmental degradation must be integrated into population policy. 
Ministers urged the ICPD to emphasize improvements in primary school enrollment 
in low income countries, in access to family planning and health services, and 
in maternal and child mortality rates. Ministers wanted to see increases in the 
proportion of aid directed to population programs above the current 1.25%. 
Requests were made for more research into the social, political, and economic 
impact of international migration among both host and origin countries.

PMID: 12179004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Popul Geogr. 1982 Jun-Dec;4(1-2):10-25.

A geographical approach to some demographic features of the Moslem countries.

Ganji MH.

This paper considers some demographic aspects of the world's Moslem population. 
Main sources of information are evaluated, and a definition is laid down for a 
Moslem country. Proportions of Moslem population are given for some 20 Asiatic 
and 30 African countries. Geographical distribution of Moslem countries as well 
as of the total world population are studied in some detail with due attention 
being devoted to Moslem minorities in non-Moslem countries such as China and the 
USSR. Population density, annual growth rate, life expectancy, age and language 
distributions are among the demographic features discussed comparatively at 
country and continent levels. Special attention is given to urbanization in the 
Moslem world. Finally future trends are discussed by using the usual statistical 
methods. It is thus established that by the year 2000 the proportion of world's 
Moslem population will rise to 22.4% as compared with 18.3% in 1975 and that the 
pressure on natural resources of the Moslem countries will be more than twice 
that in 1975 which is an alarming fact. It is hoped that the study will assist 
Moslem leaders in adopting sound population policies in their respectivie 
countries.

PMID: 12179011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Indian Med Trib. 1996 Jun 15;4(11):1, 4.

Maternal mortality -- revised WHO estimates alarming.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Estimating maternal mortality is difficult because information is usually 
incomplete and unreliable. Previously, the World Health Organization (WHO) used 
a simple model based on female life expectancy to make regional and global 
estimates. This news article reports that WHO and UNICEF have developed a more 
effective method of generating estimates for individual countries and regional 
and global totals. The new data are a recalculation for an earlier time period 
and are not indicative of time trends. The new method has been used to 
re-estimate maternal mortality for 1990. The results indicate that there were 
585,000 maternal deaths in 1990, almost 80,000 more than earlier estimates. The 
new estimates for Africa are much higher, whereas those for Asia and Latin 
America and the Caribbean are broadly comparable to previous estimates. Asia, 
which has 61% of the world's births, has the greatest number of maternal deaths 
(55%). But Africa, which has 20% of the world's births, has 40% of all maternal 
deaths. Developed countries, which have 11% of all births, have less than 1% of 
maternal deaths. In developing countries, risk of death during pregnancy or 
childbirth (maternal mortality ratio) ranges from 200/100,000 live births in 
Latin America and the Caribbean to 870/100,000 live births in Africa, with very 
high ratios of 1000/100,000 live births in Eastern and Western Africa. Using the 
new method, there are only five subregions of the world--Northern and Southern 
Africa, Eastern Asia, and Central and South America--where the maternal 
mortality ratios are lower than earlier estimates. An important predictor of 
maternal mortality was the percentage of women who have a trained 
attendant--someone with midwifery skills--assisting the delivery.

PMID: 12179200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. People Count. 1993 Apr;3(3):1-4.

The Philippine medium-term plan for human development.

Philippine Legislators' Committee on Population and Development Foundation.

PIP: This pamphlet lists some basic features of the 1993-98 Philippine 
Medium-Term Development Plan (goals, targets, strategies, and human resource 
development). The last page contains a table of human development indicators 
with the annual average for 1987-91 and annual targets during 1993-98. 
Statistical measures include specific indicators for health, nutrition, family 
planning, education, housing, and social welfare. The introduction urges all 
government units, nongovernmental organizations, and international donors to 
support the development plan in a united effort. The goals of the plan include 
enabling most of the population to meet basic minimum needs, providing a level 
of basic services to the more disadvantaged, and moving the productive capacity 
of human resources to a more competitive international arena. The expected 
accomplishments for 1998 include an increase in life expectancy to 67.0 years, a 
decrease in infant mortality to 49.4 per 1000 live births, a decline in the 
crude death rate to 6.3 per 1000 population, a decline in underweight children 
to 8.4%, an increase in per capita energy intake to 1977 kilocalories, an 
increase in the proportion of households with 100% adequate energy intake to 
47.1%, an increase in literacy to 98%, higher school enrollments, an increase of 
housing units to satisfy 34% of the total housing need, and a large increase in 
the number of poor families receiving basic welfare services to 89%. Specific 
measures will be adopted to alleviate poverty and to promote equity. Social 
services will be targeted to the most vulnerable groups. Social safety nets for 
disaster or emergency relief will be developed and maintained. Public resources 
will be directed to the most disadvantaged regions, and support will be given 
for community housing efforts and use of traditional medicines and other 
indigenous resources. The homeless will receive social services for security of 
housing and welfare, and efforts will be made to reduce the number of displaced 
families.

PMID: 12179223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. People Count. 1993 Feb;3(1):1-4.

Human development?

Philippine Legislators' Committee on Population and Development Foundation.

PIP: This pamphlet gives a summary of the UN "Human Development Report, 1992" 
for developed countries in general and developing countries in general. Each 
country's ranking in the Human Development Index, 1992, is given. Scores range 
from 0.05 to 1.0, and are based on longevity, knowledge, and income. The 
Philippines' score of 0.6 ranks them 80th out of 160 countries. Global 
distribution of income is reported as 20% of the richest receiving 82.7% of the 
total world income while the poorest 20% receive only 1.4%. The second highest 
20% receive 11.7% of the total world income; the middle 20% receive 2.3%; the 
second to the poorest 20% receive 1.9%. Developing countries have demonstrated 
progress in increased life expectancy, which in 26 developing countries is over 
70 years. The average is 63 years. 66% have access to health services. Access to 
safe drinking water has improved considerably. Public expenditures on health as 
a proportion of gross national product have increased substantially. Adult 
literacy improved by over 33% since 1970. Almost 75% of children are enrolled in 
schools. Earnings, social security benefits, child mortality, immunization, and 
gaps between men and women in primary education have all improved in developing 
countries. The findings on deprivation still show 14 million child deaths 
annually, 1.5 billion people without access to health services, 1.3 billion 
without access to safe drinking water, and 2.3 billion people without access to 
sanitation. Almost 1 billion adults (600 million women) are illiterate. 1.2 
billion people still live in absolute poverty where survival is threatened. In 
Sub-Saharan Africa, 1 in 40 adults and almost 1 million children are HIV 
infected. In developed countries 1 in 3 adults smokes, 5 in every 1000 are 
seriously injured in auto accidents, 33% of adults have not completed secondary 
education, the ratio of teachers to soldiers is 100:97, 30 million are 
unemployed in OECD countries, the gap between rich and poor is very wide, 1 in 
every 500 is in jail, homicide and divorce rates are high, and environmental 
pollution is a major concern.

PMID: 12179224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. People Count. 1994 Dec;4(11):1-4.

State of the World's Children.

Philippine Legislators' Committee on Population and Development Foundation.

PIP: By 1994 it became clear that significant progress has been made toward 
achieving the goals set out by the 1990 World Summit for Children. Progress in 
reducing malnutrition, increasing immunization levels, combating nutritional 
deficiencies, and using oral rehydration therapy has prevented more than a 
million child deaths a year and will mean that 2.5 million fewer children will 
die in 1996 than died in 1990. Use of the under-five-year mortality rate (U5MR) 
as an indicator of progress is helpful because it measures an end result of the 
development process, it represents the result of a wide variety of inputs, and 
it is less susceptible than other indicators to the fallacy of the average. 
Speed of progress in reducing the U5MR is measured by calculating its average 
annual reduction rate. The state of the world's children can be seen at a glance 
from the table of basic indicators which is included in this newsletter and 
which ranks countries in descending order of their U5MR for 1993 (with 
comparable figures given for 1960). Additional figures are provided for the 1960 
and 1993 infant mortality rates, the annual number of births in 1993, the daily 
per capita calorie supply as a percentage of requirements for 1988-90, life 
expectancy at birth for 1993, the gross primary school enrolment ratio for 
1986-92, the total adult literacy rate in 1990, the per capita gross national 
product in 1992, the total fertility rate in 1993, the population annual growth 
rate for 1990-93, and the total population in 1993.

PMID: 12179230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. People Count. 1992 Dec;2(11):1-4.

Human suffering.

Philippine Legislators' Committee on Population and Development Foundation.

PIP: 10 measures of quality of life are used to rank 141 countries in the 
International Human Suffering Index (HSI). The Index differentiates between 
extreme, high, moderate, and minimal levels of human suffering. Social welfare 
is the sum of 10 measures: life expectancy, daily caloric intake, clean drinking 
water, infant immunization, secondary school enrollment, gross national product 
per capita, the rate of inflation, communication technology (i.e., telephones), 
political freedom, and civil rights. Each measure is ranked between 0 and 10. 
The highest score indicates the greatest country stress, with the worst possible 
score being 100. About 1 billion people live in desperate poverty. Living 
conditions are the worst in Mozambique (93), followed by Somalia, Afghanistan, 
Haiti, and Sudan. Most of these countries also have high population growth. The 
most comfortable countries are Denmark (1), the Netherlands, Belgium, 
Switzerland, and Canada, which have low population growth. Total scores of 75 or 
greater (extreme human suffering) occur in 27 countries (20 in Africa, 16 in 
Asia, and Haiti) with 8% of the world's population (432 million people). High 
human suffering scores range between 50 and 74 and include 56 countries (24 in 
Africa, 16 in Asia, 15 in the Western Hemisphere, and 1 in Oceania) with 3.5 
billion people. The number of countries in this grouping increased from 44 
countries with 58% of world population in 1987. Moderate suffering scores range 
from 25-49. Countries with moderate suffering number 34 countries (9 in Europe, 
13 in Asia, 8 in the Western Hemisphere, and 2 in Oceania and 2 in Africa) with 
11.8% of world population (636 million). Over the preceding 5-year period the 
number of countries increased from 29 countries with 10% of world population. 
Minimal human suffering occurs in 24 countries (17 in Europe, Israel and Japan 
in Asia; Canada, the US, and Barbados in the Western Hemisphere; and Australia 
and New Zealand in Oceania) with 14.8% of world population (797 million). Five 
years ago 27 countries with 21% of world population were in the minimal 
suffering group.

PMID: 12179239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. People Count. 1993 Aug;3(7):1-4.

The State of the World's Children 1993. The age of neglect may be giving way to 
an age of concern.

Philippine Legislators' Committee on Population and Development Foundation.

PIP: The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) estimates that, with an annual investment 
of $25 billion, it should be possible to control major childhood illnesses, 
halve child malnutrition, provide clean water and sanitation to all communities, 
universalize family planning services, and provide almost every child with a 
basic education. Achieving these goals will mean that developing countries must 
devote more than the current levels of 10% of their budgets to them and that 
more than the current 10% of international aid must be similarly directed. 
UNICEF finds reason to hope that public and political support will be mobilized 
in this direction because the 80% immunization target for children in developing 
countries has been met. The 1990 World Summit for Children outlined overall 
goals for the years 1990-2000 as well as specific goals to provide protection 
for women and girls and to improve nutrition, child health, and educational 
opportunities. The state of the world's children can be seen at a glance from 
the table of basic indicators which is included in this newsletter and which 
ranks countries in descending order of their estimated 1991 under age five years 
mortality rate. Additional figures are provided for the 1991 infant mortality 
rate, the percentage of infants with low birth weight in 1990, life expectancy 
at birth in 1991, the percentage of first grade enrollment finishing primary 
school, total population, the annual population growth rate for 1990-91, the per 
capita gross national product in 1990, and the percentage of fully immunized 
children in 1990-91 (broken down for tuberculosis; diphtheria, pertussis, and 
tetanus; polio; and measles).

PMID: 12179242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Child Worldw. 1993;20(2-3):13, 15.

Child mortality through AIDS.

Kok P.

PIP: The vast majority of child mortality worldwide is due to malaria and 
respiratory and diarrheal diseases. AIDS will, however, cause an increasing 
share of infant and child mortality. It is expected that in Asia more so than in 
Africa, HIV-related child mortality will be a major cause of child mortality. 
Child mortality due to AIDS will increase both as a direct effect of HIV 
infection among infants and from excess mortality due to diminishing care during 
the period of parents' illness and once the child becomes an orphan. The short 
life expectancy of children born with HIV causes the pattern of AIDS mortality 
among children to closely follow the epidemic of HIV infection in the general 
population. The author has designed a model to calculate the number of new HIV 
infections in a given year which would be more or less equal to the number of 
children who will die from AIDS in the first 18 months of their life. The 
average mortality rate is 18 months, higher in the US and Europe, lower in 
Africa and Asia. This article explains how it is possible to calculate the 
incidence for a given town, region, or country, stressing the grim future ahead 
for many children.

PMID: 12179299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Child Worldw. 1993;20(2-3):52-4.

Rwanda. AIDS orphans: problems and solutions.

Descombes M.

PIP: An estimated 300,000 of Rwanda's population of 7.5 million are infected 
with HIV. This includes 130,000 women and 20,000 children. Due to AIDS-related 
mortality, there are an estimated 62,000 orphans in the country, with 150,000 
expected by 1997. War, adverse economic conditions, and ignorance of the minimal 
or nonexistent risk of being infected by these children, however, constrain 
extended biological and foster families from accepting these orphans into their 
homes. These children are very much alone and need to be placed in warm, caring 
households. Caritas Rwanda with the help of the Rwandan Ministry of Health 
launched the Family Homes Project in 1992 as an extension of the organization's 
general program of caring for AIDS-affected families in Rwanda in place since 
1989. The program offers psychological counseling and assistance with regard to 
food, basic medicines, the payment of school fees, and funeral expenses. Family 
homes are structures designed to give orphans a background as similar as 
possible to that of the family which they have lost. Each harbors 7-10 children 
typically up to age 16 cared for by a woman who is also the biological mother of 
some of them. Caritas buys and equips an house in the Kigali suburbs or in one 
of the provincial towns. The mother is then provided a budget to pay for the 
daily household expenses of food, clothing, maintenance, water, and electricity. 
HIV-positive children lead in this setting, as far as their health permits, the 
same life as their healthy peers. When a serious health problem arises, the 
orphans are treated at the medical and social center, or the hospital if needed. 
Caritas Rwanda plans to open a care center staffed with a nurse and an 
additional outside social worker for orphans who require permanent treatment. 
Only several hundred children are presently in the program, but Rwanda has set 
an objective of assisting, by 1997, 50% of its AIDS orphans.

PMID: 12179314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Soc Stud. 1989 Apr;(44):1-123.

Differential female mortality and health care in South Asia.

Harriss B.

PIP: This report examines differential female mortality in South Asia--India, 
Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. Under conditions of mortality decline and 
an aggregate trend toward convergence of life expectancy, disequilibria which 
are comparatively unusual, persist. The converging life expectancies are a 
product of changes unique to each sex. Female mortality gains after the 
reproductive period conceal excess female mortality from the post-neonatal 
period to 5 years and in most regions of South Asia during the reproductive 
years as well. These imbalances appear to be most exaggerated on the upper 
Gangetic plain and among communities such as the Jats and Rajputs. The most 
marked imbalances do not bear a consistent relationship to economic conditions. 
They may, however, be declining over time. In certain regions of India, most 
notably in the peripheral south, discrimination against women is not seen in 
demographic data and has not been for several decades. Male life expectancy is 
being affected by only slow improvement in male mortality from age 35. Major 
social changes are accompanying these changes in gender differences in vital 
statistics, including changes in the technology of agricultural production, 
falling female participation rates, the education of girls, the increasing 
practice of dowry, and fertility decision making changes. It is not clear 
whether child mortality or maternal mortality is the key to the political 
economy of Indian demography, whether maldistribution of food or health care is 
the prime determinant of excess female child mortality, whether excess female 
mortality is the result of being neglect or conscious selection, whether 
regional contrasts result from differences in the religious roles of sons 
between north and south India, whether the female sex is culturally inferior and 
the male sex superior, whether food scarcity is more important than food 
availability in the determination of sex bias, whether poverty results in 
greater discrimination, whether class position determines reproductive strategy, 
whether major contrasts in demographic regime exist between north and south 
India, or whether material conditions or cultural practices determine 
demographic regimes. The workshop papers contributed data for the decision 
process, advocacy for the agenda, and details on the results of implementation, 
and the realities of access.

PMID: 12179331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Terra (Hels). 1994;106(4):374-83.

[Development features of regional population aging in Finland].

[Article in Finnish]

Heikkila E.

"Population ageing has emerged as one of the crucial problems facing developed 
countries. In Finland, the old population (aged 65 and over) has doubled in 
numbers over the past 30 years. The phenomena underlying this ageing trend 
include a decline in fertility, increase of the average life expectancy, and the 
effects of migration. Considerable regional differences in population ageing can 
be observed between Finland's provinces, municipalities and between their 
different parts. The number of the elderly is projected to increase in all 
provinces, the highest relative increase taking place in the provinces of 
Lapland, Uusimaa and Oulu between 1990-2020." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12179340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. GRMA News. 1991;(12):1, 8.

Longer life span for Copper T 380 A.

[No authors listed]

Copper T 380 A, the intrauterine device (IUD), has now been clinically approved 
by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to have a longer lifespan. 
According to a population council news release, the device, which originally had 
a 4-year term duration, has been found out to be effective for 6 years. The 
extension was based on data from a study conducted by the World Health 
Organization (WHO) and submitted to the FDA by the Population Council, developer 
of the IUD. This extension will undoubtedly have many advantages, as the less 
frequently the device is replaced, the fewer the risks of pelvic inflammatory 
disease, perforation, and other complications that occur mainly soon after 
insertion. More so, less frequent insertions will cost less and be more 
convenient. The president of the Population Council, Mr. George Zeidenstein, 
welcomed the FDA action and said "when we licensed Cynopharma (the sole 
distributors of the product) to introduce the Copper T 380A IUD in the US 3 
years ago, we knew it was a superior, long-acting reversible method that would 
expand contraceptive options. The fact that this IUD is approved for 6 years 
makes it an even more attractive option for women choosing a contraceptive 
method."

full text

PMID: 12179363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Estud Soc. 1974 Jan-Jun;7(1-2):5-52.

[Situation and current demographic trends in the Dominican Republic].

[Article in Spanish]

Ramirez N.

PIP: An overview of the population characteristics of the Dominican Republic and 
their recent evolution is presented. In 1970 there were 99.6 men for each 100 
women. The corresponding ratios were 100.5 in 1950 and 101.6 in 1960. The urban 
sex ratio in 1970 was 89.5, compared to 106.9 in rural areas, largely because of 
the greater tendency of women to migrate to the cities. In 1970, 47.5% of the 
population was aged 0-14, 49.4% was 15-64, and 31.9% was 65 or older, almost the 
same distribution as in 1960. In 1970, 42.8% of the population over age 15 was 
single, 28.2% was married, 24.8% was in free union, 3.0% was widowed, and 1.2% 
was divorced or separated. 67.8% of the population aged 10 or over was literate 
in 1970 compared to 65.8% in 1960. 41.8% of the population aged 5-29 years was 
enrolled in school in 1970, compared to 40.2% in 1960. Enrollment of persons 
aged 7-14 years declined from 68.5% in 1960 to 66.4% in 1970. Approximately 300 
thousand persons aged 7-14 did not attend school in 1970. In 1970, 48.2% of the 
total male population and 16.4% of the female population was considered 
economically active. The crude activity rates were slightly higher for males and 
lower for females in rural areas. The unemployment rate in 1970 was estimated at 
24.1%. The male unemployment rate was 22.4% for the entire country, 23.0% in 
urban areas and 22.1% in rural areas, while corresponding female rates were 
29.0%, 26.2%, and 31.6%. In 1970, 56.4% of the labor force was employed in the 
primary sector, 13.5% in the secondary sector, and 30.1% in the tertiary sector. 
50.5% of the population was concentrated in 26.9% of the national territory, 
with the National District containing 20.4% of the population in 3% of the land 
area. 40% of the population was urban in 1970, compared to 16.6% in 1920. The 
urban population grew at 5.9%/year from 1960-70, compared to 1.4%/year for the 
rural population. There were 14 cities of more than 20,000 in 1970. The 
population of Santo Domingo grew from 30,943 in 1920 to 673,470 in 1970, 
representing 16.8% of the country's population and 42.3% of the urban 
population. The crude birthrate was estimated at 47/1000 and the total fertility 
rate at 6.8 in 1970. Rural fertility appeared to be about 60% higher than urban. 
Fertility was inversely related to educational level. The crude death rate was 
estimated at 14.7/1000 in 1970, the life expectancy at birth at 52.0 years, and 
the infant mortality rate at 110/1000. It is expected that the population will 
continue to grow at over 3%/year for the next 2 or 3 decades, unless a 
considerable decline in fertility occurs.

PMID: 12179409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Gt Concern. 1988 Mar;(1):37-42.

Many ways of community health.

Joseph T.

PIP: The community health approach to health care has been widely recognized as 
the right alternative for ensuring health to the poor millions in developing 
nations. In India too, governmental as well as voluntary efforts are made for 
the promotion of community health. In the evolution of a health care system, 
this approach has emerged through a process of dialogue between the medical and 
the social sciences in an effort to make the health care system relevant and and 
responsive to the socio-political-economic realities in the society. Different 
approaches have been identified in community health. These are: Medical, Health 
extension, and Comprehensive. The Medical Approach considers health as the 
absence of diseases. Health is achieved by medical interventions based on modern 
sciences and technology and medicine, and sees the role of the community (the 
people) as one of responding to the directions given by the medical 
professionals. The Health Extension Approach is based on a critique medical 
approach. It accepts the World Health Organization (WHO) definition of health as 
the total physical, mental, and social well being of the individual. Mere 
advancement of medical technology and the sophistication of services would not 
bring health to the majority of people--especially the poor. There should be a 
planned redistribution of health care facilities to reach the vastness of the 
society. The Comprehensive Approach views health as total well being in the 
context of the situational realities of the individual. Health--the state of 
well being--is also a human condition, which does not improve either by 
providing more services or by mobilizing the community for providing more health 
services. It improves only by having the community take control and 
responsibility for decisions about how to mobilize.

PMID: 12179470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. NBER Work Pap Ser. 1998 Dec;(6866):33, [21] p.

Demographics and medical care spending: standard and non-standard effects.

Cutler DM, Sheiner L.

"In this paper, [the authors] examine the effects of likely demographic changes 
on medical spending for the elderly. Standard forecasts highlight the potential 
for greater life expectancy to increase costs: medical costs generally increase 
with age, and greater life expectancy means that more of the elderly will be in 
the older age groups. Two factors work in the other direction, however. First, 
increases in life expectancy mean that a smaller share of the elderly will be in 
the last year of life, when medical costs generally are very high.... Second, 
disability rates among the surviving population have been declining in recent 
years by 0.5 to 1.5 percent annually.... Thus, changes in disability and 
mortality should, on net, reduce average medical spending on the elderly. 
However, these effects are not as large as the projected increase in medical 
spending stemming from increases in overall medical costs."

excerpt

PMID: 12179490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Rev Planeac Desarro. 1989 Jul-Dec;21(3-4):25-46.

[Population dynamics of the rural Colombian population: 1951-1985].

[Article in Spanish]

Olinto Rueda J.

PIP: The author analyzes demographic trends in rural areas of Colombia for the 
period 1951-1985, noting a large decline in fertility, improved life expectancy, 
and trends in internal migration. He also examines changes in the age and sex 
structure of the rural population and discusses the implications of these 
changes.

PMID: 12179494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Newsl Int Union Sci Study Popul. 1986 Sep-Dec;(28):19-44.

Seminar on adult mortality and orphanhood in the past: five Latin American 
cases.

Rabell C, Necochea N, Arretx C, Salinas R, Ferrando D, Ponce F, Burmester AM, De 
Macedo IS, Nadalin SO.

This report concerns a seminar on adult mortality and orphanhood in the past in 
Latin America that was held in San Jose, Costa Rica, December 12-14, 1984. The 
first part describes five historical studies presented at the seminar concerning 
Mexico, Chile, Peru, Brazil, and Argentina. "The second part of this article is 
an explanation of the calculation involved in a life table derived from 
information on the incidence of orphanhood according to the age of newly married 
couples on their marriage."

excerpt

PMID: 12179538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Popul Newsl. 1988 Jun;(45):1-9.

World population prospects: 1988.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs.

PIP: The 1988 UN population revision estimates that the total population of the 
world in mid 1988 is 5.1 billion persons and that the annual rate of increase is 
1.7% for 1987-1988. It proposes a plateau in the rate of world population at 
around 1.7%, starting in the late 1970s and ending around the early 1990s, with 
annual fluctuations. In 1985, just under 1/4 of the world population resided in 
the more developed regions. By 2000, the proportion is expected to decrease to 
1/5 and by 2025 to 1/6. The proportion was about 1/3 in 1950. The regions that 
are growing most rapidly at present (1985-1990), with a rate of 2.5%, include 
Western Africa (3.3%), Eastern Africa (3.1%), Middle Africa (2.9%), Western Asia 
(2.8%), Northern Africa (2.7%), and Melanesia (2.6%). The regions that are 
growing most slowly, with a rate 1%, are Eastern, Northern, Southern, and 
Western Europe, the Soviet Union and Northern America. Many countries in 
Eastern, Middle, and Western Africa continue to have among the highest fertility 
rates in the world, with a total rate of 6 births/woman in 1985-1990. Africa 
also has the highest mortality rates, with an average life expectancy at birth 
of 51.9 years for 1985-1990. Of the 7 countries in the world having a life 
expectancy below 45 years for that period, 5 are in Africa. For the world as a 
whole in 1985-1990, for every 1000 infants born, 71 are expected to die before 
reaching their 1st birthday.

PMID: 12179605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Popul Newsl. 1985 Jul;(36):4-14.

World population prospects: 1982 assessment.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

PIP: The world's population was about 2.5 billion in 1950, is estimated to be 
4.8 billion in 1985, and is projected to be 6.1 billion in the year 2000 and 8.2 
billion in 2025. This assessment is taken from the World Population Prospects: 
Estimates and Projections as Assessed in 1982 and Estimates and Projections of 
Urban, Rural, and City Populations, 1950-2025: The 1982 Assessment. The current 
