rate of population growth of 1.7% per year is still high in a historical 
perspective but is lower than the peak rate of 2% that prevailed in the late 
1960s; this slowdown is largely due to the deceleration of population growth in 
the developed countries and in China. For the world as a whole, it is projected 
that the growth rate will slowly decline to about 1.5% by the year 2000 and to 
slightly less than 1% by 2025. The annual rate of growth, however, is .6% on the 
average for the more developed regions, while it is 2% in the less developed 
regions. The most rapidly growing region is Africa, and the slowest growing 
region is Europe. The 25 most populous countries in 1984 and 2025, the 20 
countries with the lowest and highest growth rates, and the percentage of 
distribution by region, 1950, 1980, and 2025 are given. While the median age of 
the populations of Europe and the Soviet Union increased by about 4 years 
between 1950 and 1980, the median age decreased by 1.6 years in Africa. However, 
the median age of the world population is expected to increase from 22.4 years 
in 1980 to 26.4 years in 2000, and to 31 years in 2025. The estimates and 
projections from the 1982 assessment show steady declines from 1950 to 2025 in 
the crude birth rate and gross reproduction rate for all major regions of the 
world except Northern America and Europe, for which fertility is projected to 
increase slightly in the future. In addition, life expectancy at birth increased 
from 45.8 years in 1950-1955 to 57.3 years in 1975-1980; the largest gains in 
mortality decline were achieved by the less developed regions. Slightly more 
than half of the world's expected population of 6.1 billion by the year 2000 
will be residing in urban areas. For most countries, net migration is relatively 
small and in the preparation of estimates and projections at the national level 
it is usually assumed to be zero; however, the 25 receiving countries are 
generally the more developed countries.

PMID: 12179620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Bogeon sahoe nonjib. 1990 Dec;10(2):57-8.

A cohort analysis of phasic changes in family life cycle as basis for family 
health studies (summary).

Park IH, Kim JK.

PIP: Researchers used data from South Korea's 1986 National Sample Survey on 
Family Life Cycle (FLC) on 2644 women married between 1945-1984 and their 
families to analyze phasic changes in the FLC. Both mortality and fertility fell 
resulting in a shortening of the family expansion period (formation [I], 
extension [II], and contraction [IV] phases) and a lengthening of the empty nest 
and widowhood periods (completed extension [III], completed contraction [V], and 
dissolution phases [VI]). Phases I-II for those married between 1945-1854 stood 
at 14.7 years and a median marriage age of 18.1 compared to 3.1 years for those 
married between 1975-1984 and median marriage age of 23. In addition, phase III 
took 13.1 years for the earlier cohort which had a median age of 32.8 at last 
birth whereas, for the later cohort, it took 24.2 years and the median age at 
last birth stood at 26.1. Phase IV averaged 12.4 years for the 1945-1954 
marriage cohort with a mean age of 45.9 at the time of 1st child's marriage, but 
it fell to 2.1 years for the 1975-1984 cohort and mean age was 50.3. Phases V-VI 
stood at 5.4 years for the earlier cohort and the mean age was 58.3 at the time 
of last child's marriage whereas the corresponding figures for the later cohort 
were 22.2 years and 52.4. The termination of family formation phase was 
associated with age at marriage and family type while the extension phase was 
associated with family type, age at 1st birth, and number of children ever born. 
These results indicated a need to switch family planning and maternal and child 
health services from quantitatively orientation to qualitatively orientation. 
The public sector should emphasize preventive and promotive health services. In 
addition, community health services should be developed and strengthened to 
provide comprehensive health services, e.g., chronic disease care, for the aged.

PMID: 12179743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Pogon Sahoe Yongu. 1998 Summer;18(1):56-79.

[A study of family life cycle of Korean women].

[Article in Korean]

Cho AJ.

PIP: "The aim of this study is to review the change of life cycle of [South] 
Korean women during the past three decades, to identify the change of family 
life and their welfare needs, and finally to provide family welfare policy 
directions by life cycle stages.... The family formation period and extension 
period grew gradually shorter, while the completed extension period grew longer. 
Further, the family contraction period grew shorter, while the family completed 
contraction period grew longer, which is found especially among the young group. 
The family dissolution period, the last step of the family life cycle has grown 
longer in the past, but has started to grow shorter recently." Data are from the 
1997 National Fertility and Family Health Survey. (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12179783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. World J Surg. 2002 Sep;26(9):1079-82. doi: 10.1007/s00268-002-6368-7. Epub
2002  Aug 16.

Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and growth axis hormones in patients after 
surgery.

Osorio A(1), Vara-Thorbeck R, Rosell J, Osorio C, Ortega E, Ruiz-Requena E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Clinico Hospital, 
University of Granada, Avenida de Madrid s/n, 180012 Granada, Spain.

We selected 38 patients scheduled for cholecystectomy and studied their serum 
concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and growth axis hormones [growth 
hormone/insulin-like growth factor-1 (GH/IGF-1)]. We aimed to determine whether 
alterations in these concentrations resulted from surgical stress or, on the 
contrary, preceded surgery and were themselves a cause of chronic diseases that 
reduce life expectancy. We measured the serum concentrations of DHEA sulfate 
(DHEA-S), ACTH, cortisol, human GH (hGH), IGF-1, and IGF-1 binding protein-3 
(IGFBP-3) preoperatively and then 2 and 7 days after surgery; we also compared 
the preoperative findings with those of a healthy control group. The results 
were analyzed by gender because DHEA and GH/IGF-1 are known to present sexual 
dimorphism. There were no significant differences between the preoperative and 
control results for any of the parameters studied. We found a significant 
reduction in the concentrations of DHEA-S and IGF-1 on days 2 and 7 after 
surgery versus the preoperative values. We conclude that the decrease in DHEA-S 
in patients after surgery is a result of surgical trauma and does not precede 
surgical stress. The decrease in hormone levels observed in patients with 
chronic disease may therefore be a result, not a cause, of disease, as some have 
claimed. Further studies with a later endpoint would be of interest to assess 
any subsequent return of DHEA-S levels to baseline measurements.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-002-6368-7
PMID: 12181608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Med Syst. 2002 Oct;26(5):399-413. doi: 10.1023/a:1016401115823.

Stochastic trees and the StoTree modeling environment: models and software for 
medical decision analysis.

Hazen GB(1).

Author information:
(1)IE/MS Department, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

In this paper we present a review of stochastic trees, a convenient modeling 
approach for medical treatment decision analyses. Stochastic trees are a 
generalization of decision trees that incorporate useful features from 
continuous-time Markov chains. We also discuss StoTree, a freely available 
software tool for the formulation and solution of stochastic trees, implemented 
in the Excel spreadsheet environment.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016401115823
PMID: 12182205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Eur J Surg. 2002;168(3):150-3. doi: 10.1080/110241502320127757.

Outcome of repair of bilateral groin hernias: a prospective evaluation of 1,487 
patients.

Kald A(1), Fridsten S, Nordin P, Nilsson E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine and Surgery, Link√∂ping University Hospital, Sweden. 
anders.kald@lio.se

OBJECTIVE: To find out whether simultaneous repair of bilateral hernias 
increases the risk of recurrence compared with unilateral repair.
DESIGN: Prospective study.
SETTING: Swedish hospitals participating in the Swedish Hernia Register (SHR).
INTERVENTIONS: Prospective collection of data from the SHR, 1992-1999 inclusive. 
The Cox proportional hazard test was used for calculating odds ratio (OR).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Hernia repairs were followed up in a life table fashion 
until re-operation for recurrence or death of the patient.
RESULTS: 33416 unilateral and 1487 bilateral operations on 2974 groin hernias 
were found. Direct hernias were more common in the bilateral than in the 
unilateral group, 1,825, 61% compared with 13,336, 40%, (p < 0.0001). A 
laparoscopic method was used for 1774 (60%) of bilateral and 3285 (10%) 
unilateral repairs, and 455 bilateral operations (31%) were done as day cases 
compared with 18376 (55%) unilateral ones (p < 0.0001 for both comparisons). The 
cumulative incidence of reoperation at three years for groin hernias after 
bilateral and unilateral repair was 4.1% (95% confidence interval 3.1% to 5.1%) 
and 3.4% (95% Cl 3.1% to 3.7%, respectively. After adjustment for other risk 
factors, the OR for reoperation for recurrence after bilateral repair was 1.2 
(95% CI 0.9 to 1.5) with unilateral repair as reference. The OR for reoperation 
after laparoscopic bilateral repair compared with open bilateral repair was 0.9 
(95% CI 0.6 to 1.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous repair of bilateral hernias does not increase the risk 
of reoperation for recurrence and there is no significant difference in the risk 
of reoperation after bilateral repair using open or laparoscopic techniques.

DOI: 10.1080/110241502320127757
PMID: 12182239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Jul-Aug;17(4):573-80.

Rehabilitation of patients with congenital unrepaired cleft palate defects using 
free iliac crest bone grafts and dental implants.

Laine J(1), V√§h√§talo K, Peltola J, Tammisalo T, Happonen RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Diseases, Turku University Central Hospital, Finland. 
juhani.laine@tyks.fi

PURPOSE: To rehabilitate the mastication and speech of edentulous congenital 
cleft lip and palate patients with the use of endosseous implants in conjunction 
with bone augmentation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1992 and 1999, 6 partially and 4 completely 
edentulous adult patients with complex cleft palate defects were treated. Six 
patients had large, unrepaired defects of the hard and soft palate, whereas the 
other 4 had residual oronasal fistulas after failed palatoplasty and bone 
grafting. In 8 patients, free inlay-antral and simultaneous lateral-onlay bone 
grafts (3 patients) were obtained from the iliac crest, and dental implants were 
placed secondarily. In the other 2 patients, the implants were placed without 
grafting in recent extraction sites. Rigid bars with extensions over the defects 
were used to support obturator prostheses (n = 7), or patients were provided 
with fixed implant-supported prostheses (n = 3). In all, 50 cylindric, 
screw-type dental implants were placed and followed up for 1 to 8 years (mean, 5 
years).
RESULTS: Six implants were regarded as early failures and 1 was lost during the 
first year of loading; 1 patient lost all 5 implants. The cumulative success 
rate at 5 years was 85.7%.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: All 9 successfully rehabilitated patients reported a 
remarkable functional and psychologic improvement after the treatment. The 
described treatment protocol also seemed to be effective for correcting 
velopharyngeal insufficiency in patients using an obturator prosthesis.

PMID: 12182301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Cancer Res. 2002 Aug 15;62(16):4736-45.

The Bmi-1 oncogene induces telomerase activity and immortalizes human mammary 
epithelial cells.

Dimri GP(1), Martinez JL, Jacobs JJ, Keblusek P, Itahana K, Van Lohuizen M, 
Campisi J, Wazer DE, Band V.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation and Cancer Biology, Department of Radiation Oncology, 
New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. 
GDimri@Lifespan.org

The vast majority of breast cancers are carcinomas that arise from mammary 
epithelial cells (MECs). One of the key early events in tumorigenic 
transformation is the ability of cells to overcome replicative senescence. 
However, the precise genetic changes that are responsible for this event in MECs 
is largely unknown. Here, we report that Bmi-1, originally identified as a c-Myc 
cooperating oncoprotein, can bypass senescence, extend the replicative life 
span, and immortalize MECs. Furthermore, Bmi-1 was overexpressed in immortal 
MECs and several breast cancer cell lines. Overexpression of Bmi-1 in MECs led 
to activation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) transcription 
and induction of telomerase activity. Telomerase induction by Bmi-1 was an early 
event in the extension of the replicative life span and immortalization. Bmi-1 
was not overexpressed in hTERT-immortalized MECs, suggesting that Bmi-1 
functions upstream of hTERT. Although, c-Myc has been reported to induce 
telomerase in MECs, Bmi-1 appeared to act independently of c-Myc binding 
sequences in the hTERT promoter. Deletion analysis of the Bmi-1 protein 
suggested that the RING finger, as well as a conserved helix-turn-helix-turn 
domain, were required for its ability to induce telomerase and immortalize MECs. 
These data suggest that Bmi-1 regulates telomerase expression in MECs and plays 
a role in the development of human breast cancer.

PMID: 12183433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Vital Health Stat 23. 2002 Jul;(22):1-93.

Cohabitation, marriage, divorce, and remarriage in the United States.

Bramlett MD, Mosher WD.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents national estimates of the probabilities of 
marital and cohabitation outcomes for women 15-44 years of age in 1995, by a 
wide variety of individual- and community-level characteristics. The life-table 
analysis in this report takes a life cycle approach to estimate the 
probabilities that: a woman will marry for the first time, an intact first 
cohabitation will make the transition to marriage, a first cohabitation will end 
in separation, a first marriage will end in separation or divorce, a disrupted 
first marriage will be followed by a new cohabitation, a separation from first 
marriage will result in divorce, a divorce from first marriage will be followed 
by remarriage, and a second marriage will end in separation or divorce.
METHODS: The life-table estimates presented here are based on a nationally 
representative sample of women 15-44 years of age in the United States in 1995 
from the National Survey of Family Growth, Cycle 5.
RESULTS: The analyses show that various individual and community-level 
characteristics are related to the marital and cohabitational outcomes examined 
in this report. The results consistently demonstrate that the cohabitations and 
marriages of non-Hispanic black women are less stable than those of non-Hispanic 
white women. An analysis of trends over time suggests that differences by 
race/ethnicity are becoming more pronounced in recent years. Racial differences 
observed are associated with individual characteristics and with the 
characteristics of the communities in which the women live.

PMID: 12183886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. J Med Liban. 2001 May-Jun;49(3):123-5.

What does the World Health Report 2000 bring to Lebanon?

Ammar W(1), Awar M.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Public Health, Beirut, Lebanon. mphealth@cyberia.net.lb

The World Health Report 2000 has been the subject of extensive debate. The 
authors highlight in the following, what they consider as major limitations that 
are either inherent to methods followed and the validity of data used, or 
related to the particular situation of Lebanon. This article tackles the first 
two of the set goals i.e. level of health and responsiveness as well as the 
overall system performance. The Report clearly states that extensive use has 
been made of estimates of indicators, and that there were often conflicting 
sources of information on these indicators. In the case of Lebanon, data was not 
available for most of the values used. In fact, the last national population 
census was conducted in 1932, and vital registration is incomplete. Therefore, 
one would question the value of the estimates, based on which the calculations 
were made for Lebanon, such as Life tables, and Causes of Deaths. Finally, the 
authors conclude that despite the critics, embarking in this exercise is useful 
for Lebanon, particularly at this stage, for monitoring the reform process in 
the health sector.

PMID: 12184454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Postgrad Med J. 2002 Aug;78(922):483-6. doi: 10.1136/pmj.78.922.483.

Elbow fistulas using autogeneous vein: patency rates and results of revision.

Murphy GJ(1), Saunders R, Metcalfe M, Nicholson ML.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Leicester General Hospital, Leicester, UK.

BACKGROUND: The provision and maintenance of vascular access remains a major 
cost to end stage renal failure programmes. There are few reports regarding the 
surgical revision of the failing native elbow arteriovenous fistula (AVF).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective case note review was performed on all 
patients identified from the hospital vascular access database as having 
undergone construction of an autogeneous vein elbow AVF. Over a seven year 
period 282 autogeneous vein AVFs were fashioned in 232 patients using the 
brachial artery as the in-flow conduit. Of these 208 were brachiocephalic 
fistulas, or a variant thereof, and 74 were fashioned using the transposed 
autologous basilic vein (136 male: 96 female; median age 60 years, range 14-94 
years).
RESULTS: Of 282 elbow fistulas 197 were successfully used for dialysis (70%). 
Cumulative primary patency of elbow fistulas using autogeneous vein in this 
series was 68%, 54%, and 44% at one, two, and three years respectively. A 
further 34 revision procedures were performed on 28 fistulas to maintain fistula 
function, and cumulative secondary patency after surgical revision was 75%, 60%, 
and 46% at one, two, and three years. Overall 21 out of 34 procedures (62%) 
successfully restored fistula function and cumulative primary patency of the 
revised fistulas was 56% at one year. Eighteen AVFs (brachiocephalic, n=12; 
autologous basilar vein, n=6) required revision for access dysfunction secondary 
to a short stenoses within 4 cm of the arteriovenous anastomoses. Of these 18 
AVFs eight were revised by excision of the stenosed segment and either primary 
anastomoses of the two cut ends of arterialised vein or reanastomoses of the 
proximal venous limb proximally on the brachial artery. In another nine fistulas 
the excised segment was replaced with a short interposition graft 
(polytetrafluoroethylene, n=7; native basilic vein, n=1; bovine carotid artery, 
n=1). One fistula with postanastomotic stenoses and a more proximal needle site 
stenoses was revised using two vein patches. Overall 100% were patent at 24 
hours, 13 provided successful dialysis (72%), and cumulative primary patency was 
67% and 50% at six months and one year respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Successful surgical revision of failing native elbow fistulas can 
restore patency and improve cumulative secondary patency with potential benefits 
in terms of patient morbidity and mortality. These results compare favourably to 
published patency rates after fistula salvage using interventional radiological 
techniques.

DOI: 10.1136/pmj.78.922.483
PMCID: PMC1742455
PMID: 12185224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Assoc Physicians India. 2002 May;50(5):696-701.

Geriatric medicine programs in India: has the time arrived?

Dharmarajan TS(1), Pitchumoni CS.

Author information:
(1)New York Medical College, Division of Geriatrics, Our Lady of Mercy Centre, 
Bronx, USA.

Aging trends in India and the world over are burdening society with the health 
care and economic problems resulting from an older population. With this in 
mind, countries are preparing themselves to face the challenges of meeting this 
burden. India with its huge population and improving life-expectancy should be 
no exception. The task involves preparation in healthcare to take care of the 
elderly and train a new generation of physicians in geriatric medicine. The 
review attempts to address some of these issues and makes pertinent 
recommendations, based on the author's own experiences in developing a large 
geriatric program with all necessary components in the last decade.

PMID: 12186129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. J Health Popul Nutr. 2002 Jun;20(2):120-9.

Demographic impact of AIDS in a low-fertility urban African setting: projection 
for Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Mekonnen Y(1), Jegou R, Coutinho RA, Nokes J, Fontanet A.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Service, Ethiopian Health and Nutrition 
Research Institute, Addis Ababa. yared@enarp.com

Comment in
    J Health Popul Nutr. 2002 Jun;20(2):102-3.

The study estimated the potential demographic impact of acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in a low-fertility urban setting in sub-Saharan 
Africa. The prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) projected using a 
deterministic mathematical model was put into the AIDS Impact Model (AIM) of the 
SPECTRUM Policy Modelling System to estimate the potential demographic impact 
ofAIDS in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Demographic indicators from 1984 (the start of 
the HIV epidemic in Ethiopia) to 2024, including and excluding the HIV epidemic, 
were compared. Addis Ababa is experiencing a demographic transition in which the 
total fertility rate has declined from 3.8 to below replacement level over the 
last 20 years. The prevalence of HIV is predicted to stabilize at 10% in adults, 
resulting in a total number of people living with HIV at 200,000 and a 
cumulative number of deaths due to AIDS at 50,000. About 60% of adult deaths can 
be attributable to AIDS by 2000. The epidemic is predicted to reduce life 
expectancy by 10 and 17 years in 2000 and 2024 respectively, and to turn to 
negative, the rate of natural increase after 2009. Accordingly, the rate of 
natural increase will be -0.18%, -0.35%, and -0.71% per annum by 2009, 2014, and 
2024 respectively. Population growth is expected to continue with or without 
HIV, as a result of high net in-migration, although data for migration are 
scanty. In a low-fertility urban society of Africa, this study shows the 
potential for the HIV/AIDS epidemic to turn the rate of natural increase to 
negative.

PMID: 12186192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2002 Jul;74(2):143-53. doi:
10.1023/a:1016140228720.

Using cost-effectiveness analysis to define a breast cancer benefits package for 
the uninsured.

Malin JL(1), Keeler E, Wang C, Brook R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles 90095-1736, 
USA. jmalin@mednet.ucla.edu

OBJECTIVES: In 1999, California was considering legislation to fund breast 
cancer treatment for its uninsured. We sought to define the most cost-effective 
breast cancer benefits package in order to inform this debate.
METHODS: We use cost-effectiveness analysis to calculate the additional costs 
and benefits of various adjuvant therapy strategies, radiation after breast 
conserving surgery, and reconstruction compared to those of surgery alone in 
order to define the most cost-effective breast cancer benefits package for 
uninsured women.
RESULTS: Using cost-effectiveness analysis, we define a Minimum Breast Cancer 
Benefits Package that includes only the most cost-effective life-saving breast 
cancer treatments. To provide these benefits for an estimated 550 breast cancer 
patients will cost $10,200,000. We present two options that each cost an 
additional $1,700,000 - to expand the benefits to these patients to include 
post-mastectomy radiation and breast reconstruction; or to provide the Minimum 
Package to an additional 93 uninsured women.
CONCLUSIONS: California legislators must decide whether to offer comprehensive 
benefits to a limited number of breast cancer patients or to provide only the 
most life-saving treatments to a greater number of women.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016140228720
PMID: 12186375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Biochem J. 2002 Oct 15;367(Pt 2):313-9. doi: 10.1042/BJ20021132.

Functional identity of Drosophila melanogaster Indy as a cation-independent, 
electroneutral transporter for tricarboxylic acid-cycle intermediates.

Inoue K(1), Fei YJ, Huang W, Zhuang L, Chen Z, Ganapathy V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
1120 15th Street, CB2208, Augusta, GA 30912, U.S.A.

Indy is a gene in Drosophila melanogaster which, when made dysfunctional, leads 
to an extension of the average adult life span of the organism. The present 
study was undertaken to clone the Indy gene-product and to establish its 
functional identity. We isolated a full-length Indy cDNA from a D. melanogaster 
cDNA library. The cDNA codes for a protein of 572 amino acids [( Drosophila Indy 
(drIndy)]. In its amino acid sequence, drIndy exhibits comparable similarity to 
the two known Na(+)-coupled dicarboxylate transporters in mammals; namely, NaDC1 
(35% identity) and NaDC3 (34% identity). We elucidated the functional 
characteristics of drIndy in two different heterologous expression systems by 
using mammalian cells and Xenopus laevis oocytes. These studies show that drIndy 
is a cation-independent electroneutral transporter for a variety of 
tricarboxylic acid-cycle intermediates, with preference for citrate compared 
with succinate. These characteristics of drIndy differ markedly from those of 
NaDC1 and NaDC3, indicating that neither of these latter transporters is the 
mammalian functional counterpart of drIndy. Since drIndy is a transporter for 
tricarboxylic acid-cycle intermediates, dysfunction of the Indy gene may lead to 
decreased production of metabolic energy in cells, analogous to caloric 
restriction. This might provide the molecular basis for the observation that 
disruption of the Indy gene function in Drosophila leads to extension of the 
average adult life span of the organism.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20021132
PMCID: PMC1222911
PMID: 12186628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Acta Haematol. 2002;108(2):79-83. doi: 10.1159/000064748.

Evaluation of the incidence of sensorineural hearing loss in beta-thalassemia 
major patients under regular chelation therapy with desferrioxamine.

Karimi M(1), Asadi-Pooya AA, Khademi B, Asadi-Pooya K, Yarmohammadi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Hematology, Shiraz Cooley's Medical 
Center, Nemazee Hospital, Shiraz, Iran. karimim@sums.ac.ir

With the improved life expectancy of beta-thalassemia major patients, new 
clinical problems, such as hearing loss, must be evaluated. To determine the 
incidence of sensorineural hearing loss and its relationship to desferrioxamine 
(DFO), 128 patients receiving subcutaneous DFO in doses from 21 to 39 mg/kg/day 
were studied. These patients had received their total weekly dose of DFO 
according to two different methods. The first group (QOD group of 52%) had 
received it on an every other day basis. The second group (QD group of 48%) had 
received it on 6 days a week. Otological examinations and pure tone audiometry 
were performed on the patients as they routinely visited Shiraz Cooley's Center, 
to find a possible correlation between the dose and duration of therapy. 56 
patients (44%) in both groups had no evidence of drug-induced auditory 
abnormalities. Of the patients in the QOD group 44.7% had hearing loss in the 
right ear and 41.8% in the left ear at a frequency of 8,000 Hz compared to the 
QD group, 27.8 and 23%, respectively (with p < 0.047 and p < 0.02, 
respectively). No correlation was found between the duration of DFO therapy and 
sensorineural deficit. A significant correlation was found between the dose of 
drug given at each episode of DFO therapy and hearing loss at the frequency of 
8,000 Hz, when comparing the QOD group with the QD group. Hence, it may be 
concluded that DFO ototoxicity is determined not only by the total amount of the 
drug given, but also by its maximal plasma concentration. Thus we suggest 
periodical audiologic checkups and a low dosage of DFO (below 50 mg/kg/day) 
given on at least 5-6 days a week for the prevention and prompt diagnosis of 
audiologic complications.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000064748
PMID: 12187025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Med Philos. 2002 Jun;27(3):339-54. doi: 10.1076/jmep.27.3.339.2978.

Extending the human life span.

Glannon W(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Ethics Unit, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec H3A 1W9, Canada. glannon@falaw.lan.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    J Med Philos. 2002 Jun;27(3):355-68.

Research into the mechanisms of aging has suggested the possibility of extending 
the human life span. But there may be evolutionary biological reasons for 
senescence and the limits of the cell cycle that explain the infirmities of 
aging and the eventual demise of all human organisms. Genetic manipulation of 
the mechanisms of aging could over many generations alter the course of natural 
selection and shift the majority of deleterious mutations in humans from later 
to earlier stages of life. This could harm people in the distant future by 
making them more susceptible to premature disease and mortality. Thus there are 
biological and moral reasons to carefully consider the implications of 
exploiting this technology on a broad scale to extend the lives of people in the 
present and near future.

DOI: 10.1076/jmep.27.3.339.2978
PMID: 12187438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Med Philos. 2002 Jun;27(3):355-68. doi: 10.1076/jmep.27.3.355.2983.

Extending human lifespan and the precautionary paradox.

Harris J(1), Holm S.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Medicine, Law and Bioethics, School of Law, University of 
Manchester, Room 207 Williamson Building, Manchester M13 9PT, UK. 
John.Harris@man.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Med Philos. 2006 Oct;31(5):447-64.

Comment on
    J Med Philos. 2002 Jun;27(3):339-54.

This paper argues that a precautionary approach to scientific progress of the 
sort advocated by Walter Glannon with respect to life-extending therapies 
involves both incoherence and irresolvable paradox. This paper demonstrates the 
incoherence of the precautionary approach in many circumstances and argues that 
with respect to life-extending therapies we have at present no persuasive 
reasons for a moratorium on such research.

DOI: 10.1076/jmep.27.3.355.2983
PMID: 12187439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. HIV Clin Trials. 2002 Jul-Aug;3(4):324-32. doi: 10.1310/TQFQ-VA2X-95AT-H5LM.

Clinical experiences with interferon as monotherapy or in combination with 
ribavirin in patients co-infected with HIV and HCV.

Puoti M(1), Zanini B, Bruno R, Airoldi M, Rossi S, Quiros Roldan E, El Hamad I, 
Moretti F, Castelli F, Sacchi P, Filice G, Carosi G.

Author information:
(1)Clinica di Malattie Infettive e Tropicali Universit√† degli Studi di Brescia - 
AO Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy. m.puoti@iol.it

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection accelerates progression of 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) toward cirrhosis. Thus, with the increase of life 
expectancy observed after introduction of combination antiretroviral treatment, 
liver disease is becoming an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality in 
HIV-infected patients. In addition, HCV co-infection blunts CD4 restoration 
induced by HAART and increases HAART hepatotoxicity. For all these reasons, 
anti-HCV treatment is mandatory in HIV seropositives. The perfect treatment of 
hepatitis C should not only be safe and effective, but it should not have any 
adverse impact on HIV diseases and concurrent anti-HIV therapy. Two drugs are 
currently licensed for treatment of HCV: interferon alfa (IFNalpha) and 
ribavirin. Three hundred and thirty-eight patients have been included in pilot 
studies on the efficacy and tolerability of IFNalpha monotherapy: 16% showed 
sustained response and 10% dropped out. No significant adverse impact of 
IFNalpha monotherapy on HIV diseases or antiretroviral treatment has been 
observed. IFNalpha and ribavirin in combination have been introduced more 
recently: only 88 patients were included in pilot studies published as full 
papers with a 25% sustained response and an 11% rate of drop outs. Anemia and 
cumulative toxicity with didanosine were the most important side effects of 
combination treatment, but it did not affect HIV disease progression. Higher 
rates of sustained response (33%) without increase of side effects have been 
observed in preliminary experiences with the new long-acting pegylated 
interferons in combination with ribavirin. The search for the perfect treatment 
continues.

DOI: 10.1310/TQFQ-VA2X-95AT-H5LM
PMID: 12187507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Croat Med J. 2002 Aug;43(4):439-45.

Years of potential life lost and valued years of potential life lost in 
assessing premature mortality in Slovenia.

Semerl JS(1), Sesok J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health of The Republic of Slovenia, Ljubljana, Slovenija. 
Jozica.Selb@IVZ-RS.SI

AIM: To determine the leading causes of death that contribute most to premature 
mortality in Slovenia; to classify premature mortality according to the cause of 
death, age, and sex; and to determine the age point before which premature 
mortality becomes a potential loss to the society.
METHOD: Potential economic losses to society were estimated by use of years of 
potential life lost (YPLL), with a cut-off point at 65 years, and valued years 
of potential life lost (VYPLL) methods. We calculated the sex-, age-, and 
underlying causes of death-specific YPLL and VYPLL for residents of Slovenia who 
died at age younger than 65 years, using Slovene sex-specific life expectancy 
for 1998/1999 and age-specific weights of investment-producer-consumer model.
RESULTS: In 1998, 4,558 YPLL per 100,000 population were lost to Slovenia. We 
found bimodal age distribution of YPLL, with the first peak in the 20-24 year 
age group and the second in the 45-49 year age group. Men to women rate ratio 
was 2.5. The leading causes of YPLL were external causes of death, followed by 
malignant neoplasms, and cardiovascular diseases. External causes, including 
suicides and traffic accidents, were the leading causes of death in men, whereas 
malignant neoplasms, including breast cancer and digestive cancer, were 
top-ranking causes in women. Among those, only external causes of death produced 
positive VYPLL, indicating a net loss to the society.
CONCLUSION: In Slovenia, YPLL peaked in the 20-24 and 45-49 year age groups. 
Only external causes of death, most of which were preventable, accounted for the 
net economic loss to Slovenian society. We believe that YPLL and VYPLL, as 
specific mortality measures, can be reliably used in the evaluation of leading 
causes of death before age 65 and potential economic loss to the society caused 
by those deaths, and that they should be taken into account when setting public 
health priorities.

PMID: 12187522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Harefuah. 2002 Jul;141(7):646-50, 665, 664.

[Physical activity for the elderly].

[Article in Hebrew]

Marom-Klibansky R(1), Drory Y.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Prevention and Rehabilitation Institute, Rabin Medical Center, 
Cardiac Rehabilitation Institute, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, 
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University.

Prolongation of life expectancy requires inevitable care for the quality of life 
of the elderly. Regular physical activity has a very important role in 
preserving the quality of life and independence, and not only reducing illness 
and mortality. A better understanding of this issue should enable us to set 
guidelines for regular physical activity for the elderly. The reaction to 
regular physical activity of older adults without cardiovascular diseases is 
similar to the reaction of young people to regular physical activity. In men, 
the mechanism of cardiovascular adaptation is mainly central, while in old women 
it is mainly peripheral. Elderly with cardiovascular diseases suffer from oxygen 
consumption and cardiac output reduction, compared to healthy old people. They 
also enjoy the cardiovascular benefits of aerobic physical activity and gain the 
risk factors profile improvement. Therefore, it is recommended to include 
aerobic physical activity as an integrative part of the daily lifestyle. 
Resistance strength training in elderly of both sexes leads to similar or even 
higher values for muscle mass and strength compared to young people, reduces the 
body fat mass, body weight and helps to preserve the active tissue mass. More 
beneficial effects of physical activity are: an improvement of posture and 
physical stability, improved flexibility and mobility capacity, a better 
cognitive function and a lower level of depression. The beneficial effects of 
physical activity in the very aged and frail elderly include physiological, 
metabolic, psychological and functional adaptations, which can substantially 
contribute to the quality of life and cannot be achieved by other treatments.
SUMMARY: Participation in a regular physical activity program is an effective 
and secure means to avoid and reduce the functional decline associated with 
aging and to improve the quality of life. The recommended exercise program is 
multifactorial and includes aerobic and resistance training, and exercises of 
balance and flexibility.

PMID: 12187567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Hosp Med. 2002 Jul;63(7):421-5. doi: 10.12968/hosp.2002.63.7.1987.

TOBI: reducing the impact of pseudomonal infection.

Govan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Edinburgh Medical School, 
Edinburgh EH8 9AG.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is associated with impaired lung function and 
reduced life expectancy in cystic fibrosis patients. Tobramycin nebulizer 
solution (TOBI, Chiron Corporation Ltd, Hounslow) has been specifically 
formulated for use against P. aeruginosa infection in the lung.

DOI: 10.12968/hosp.2002.63.7.1987
PMID: 12187603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2002 Jul;3(7):746-52.

[Heart surgery interventions in chronic dialysis patients: short- and long-term 
results].

[Article in Italian]

Luciani N(1), Nasso G, D'Alessandro C, Testa F, Glieca F, Gaudino M, Possati G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiochirurgia, Dipartimento di Medicina Cardiovascolare, 
Universit√† Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Largo Francesco Vito, 1, 00168 Roma. 
nicola.luciani@tiscalinet.it

BACKGROUND: Chronic dialysis is a relevant risk factor for mortality and 
morbidity after cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate the short- and long-term follow-up of patients in dialysis 
undergoing cardiac surgery.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 24 consecutive chronic hemodialysis adult 
patients (14 males, 10 females, mean age 63 +/- 12 years) who, over a 10-year 
period, underwent operative cardiac procedures in our Institution. Prior to 
surgery the mean duration of dialysis was 55 +/- 18 months (minimum 3 months). 
Surgery included isolated coronary artery bypass grafting in 18 patients, aortic 
valve replacement in 3, mitral valve replacement in 2, and double valve 
replacement (mitral and aortic) in 1. Sixteen operations were elective whereas 8 
(33%) were performed in an emergency setting.
RESULTS: Seven operative deaths occurred with an overall in-hospital mortality 
of 29%. Among the 16 patients in whom surgery was elective, only 2 died. Five of 
the 8 patients submitted to emergency procedures died. Hence, the operative 
mortality in this subgroup of patients was 62% (p < 0.005). A low cardiac output 
and multiorgan failure due to pulmonary infection were the most important causes 
of death. However 75% of patients experienced some major postoperative 
complications. All survivors were followed up for 6 to 108 months (mean 33.7 +/- 
29.5 months). The overall functional status was significantly improved. Survival 
at 1, 2 and 5 years was 68, 63 and 45% respectively in coronary patients and 65, 
58 and 42% in the overall study population.
CONCLUSIONS: In dialysis-dependent patients major cardiac procedures can be 
carried out with an acceptable risk only in elective conditions even if the 
mortality is 4-5-fold higher than in the normal population and the life 
expectancy is similar to that of patients in chronic dialysis but without 
cardiac disease.

PMID: 12187635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2002 Jul;39(4):396-9. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.39.396.

[Comprehensive geriatric assessment and treatment of elderly diabetic patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Araki A(1), Murotani Y, Aoyagi Y.

Author information:
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Medical Center.

Because of diversities of physical, mental, and psychological functions as well 
as clinical and social backgrounds, comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) is 
of great importance in treating elderly diabetic patients. We addressed three 
issues as to functions important for the CGA. First, we assessed several domains 
of cognitive function in 213 elderly diabetic patients. Attention and visual 
memory in diabetic patients without vascular disease were impaired compared with 
non-diabetic controls after adjusting for age and sex using analysis of 
covariance. Multivariate analysis revealed that age, hyperglycemia, and the 
presence of cerebral infarction were independent determinants for the impairment 
of attention in the diabetic patients. The results suggest that glucose control 
is important for the maintenance of cognitive function in elderly diabetic 
patients. Secondly, we assessed positive well-being as a measure of 
psychological function using a PGC morale scale in 197 elderly diabetic patients 
without cerebrovascular disease at baseline and examined whether the low 
well-being affect the development of cerebrovascular disease in a 3-year 
longitudinal study. The results indicate that low well-being was an independent 
risk factor for cerebrovascular disease after adjusting conventional risk 
factors in elderly diabetic patients. Thirdly, as a physical function, we 
assessed 5-m walking speed for both usual and maximum walking in 64 diabetic 
patients. The walking speed decreased with age and correlated significantly with 
the knee extension power and functional reach. The result suggests that 
muscle-strength exercise and balance training as well as endurance exercises are 
necessary to improve age-related decreases in walking speed and for effective 
exercise in elderly patients. From a gerontological point of view, new 
strategies of elderly diabetes treatment including muscle strength exercise and 
psychological approaches should be established to improve physical, mental, 
psychological, and social functions as assessed by the CGA.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.39.396
PMID: 12187802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. J Med Assoc Thai. 2002 Jun;85 Suppl 1:S1-15.

Climacteric: concept, consequence and care.

Taechakraichana N(1), Jaisamrarn U, Panyakhamlerd K, Chaikittisilpa S, 
Limpaphayom KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Climacteric is the period of life starting from the decline in ovarian activity 
until after the end of ovarian function. According to the definition, the period 
includes peri-menopause, menopause and post-menopause. Climacteric is considered 
to be a natural change of life which may be accompanied by various health 
consequences i.e., menopausal symptoms, osteoporosis, coronary heart disease, or 
Alzheimer's disease. The key concept is that women enter menopause with 
different menopausal status for instances, natural menopause, surgical 
menopause, early menopause or even premature ovarian failure. Women may 
experience various health consequences due to the difference in genetic and 
environmental interaction. The prevalence and incidence of menopausal problems 
vary according to ethnic groups. For instance, Asian women seem to have less 
problems after menopause than their occidental counterparts. Nevertheless, the 
problems do exist and seem to be increasing due to the longer life expectancy 
and lifestyle changes of people in the region. Clinical decision in menopausal 
therapy can be determined according to health risk stratification. Appropriated 
menopausal therapeutic strategies include medical and non-medical modalities. 
The non-medical modalities are mainly focussed on lifestyle modification, while 
the medical modalities are classified as hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and 
non-HRT. Those in the high risk group will probably benefit most from medication 
besides lifestyle modification. There are various types, doses, routes and 
regimens of medication which need to be appropriately matched with the proper 
women's characteristics. Those who have contraindications to HRT or can not 
tolerate its side effects may choose other alternatives eg, selective estrogen 
receptor modulators, bisphosphonates, calcitonin or calcium and vitamin D. The 
success of menopausal therapy is to give an appropriate therapeutic option to 
the right woman. The future direction of research will remain focussing on the 
development in diagnosis and menopausal therapy particularly the main three 
areas of health promotion, disease prevention and treatment. The trend of 
research and development will probably be concentrated on new pharmaceutical 
agents with more specific action and high selectivity in an attempt to maximize 
its efficacy and safety. Attention may be paid more on the convenience of drug 
administration to increase its compliance. Alternative medicine and appropriated 
technologies are also the fields of special interest of which research is 
underway.

PMID: 12188398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Agric Food Chem. 2002 Aug 28;50(18):5167-78. doi: 10.1021/jf011693l.

Chitosan as an edible invisible film for quality preservation of herring and 
atlantic cod.

Jeon YJ(1), Kamil JY, Shahidi F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, 
Canada A1B 3X9.

The effect of chitosan with different molecular weights as coatings for 
shelf-life extension of fresh fillets of Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) and herring 
(Clupea harengus) was evaluated over a 12-day storage at refrigerated 
temperature (4 +/- 1 degrees C). Three chitosan preparations from snow crab 
(Chinoecetes opilio) processing wastes, differing in viscosities and molecular 
weights, were prepared; their apparent viscosities (360, 57, and 14 cP) depended 
on the deacetylation time (4, 10, and 20 h, respectively) of the chitin 
precursor. Upon coating with chitosans, a significant (p < or = 0.05) reduction 
in relative moisture losses of 37, 29, 29, 40, and 32% was observed for cod 
samples coated with 360 cP chitosan after 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 days of storage, 
respectively. Chitosan coating significantly (p < or = 0.05) reduced lipid 
oxidation as displayed in peroxide value, conjugated dienes, 2-thiobarbituric 
acid reactive substances and headspace volatiles, chemical spoilage as reflected 
in total volatile basic nitrogen, trimethylamine, and hypoxanthine, and growth 
of microorganisms as reflected in total plate count in both fish model systems 
compared to uncoated samples. The preservative efficacy and the viscosity of 
chitosan were inter-related; the efficacy of chitosans with viscosities of 57 
and 360 cP was superior to that of chitosan with a 14 cP viscosity. Thus, 
chitosan as edible coating would enhance the quality of seafoods during storage.

DOI: 10.1021/jf011693l
PMID: 12188625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Respir Care. 2002 Sep;47(9):1002-6.

Anticipatory use of venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for a 
high-risk interventional cardiac procedure.

Carmichael TB(1), Walsh EP, Roth SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Care, Children's Hospital Boston, 300 Longwood 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA ECMO) has become a valuable 
technique in the critical care of children with congenital heart disease who 
require mechanical cardiorespiratory support. The use of VA ECMO in cardiac 
patients has expanded from an extension of intraoperative cardiopulmonary bypass 
and now includes rescue therapy during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, temporary 
circulatory support for reversible heart failure, and bridge support preceding 
heart or heart/lung transplantation. In the majority of clinical applications VA 
ECMO is used in reaction to impending or ongoing cardiorespiratory failure and 
not in anticipation of an induced change in clinical status. We describe the 
anticipatory use of VA ECMO to prepare a patient with complex cyanotic 
congenital heart disease for a high-risk interventional cardiac catheterization. 
A 2.5 kg neonate with severe Ebstein's anomaly of the tricuspid valve and 
recurrent episodes of life-threatening supraventricular tachycardia was 
electively cannulated for VA ECMO in the cardiac intensive care unit. She 
underwent successful electrophysiologic mapping and transcatheter radiofrequency 
ablation of an accessory conduction pathway, resulting in termination of the 
tachycardia. Following an uncomplicated ECMO course she was decannulated in the 
cardiac intensive care unit and subsequently discharged home in stable 
condition. The case illustrates the proactive use of ECMO during a procedure in 
which severe hemodynamic instability could be predicted. We discuss this concept 
of ECMO use in the context of accepted indications for ECMO in cardiac patients 
and encourage an expanded role for its use to prevent cardiorespiratory collapse 
in planned interventions on compromised patients who are at risk of acute 
deterioration.

PMID: 12188935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Neurosurgery. 2002 Sep;51(3):840-5; discussion 845-7. doi: 
10.1227/00006123-200209000-00048.

Preliminary clinical experience with the Bryan Cervical Disc Prosthesis.

Goffin J(1), Casey A, Kehr P, Liebig K, Lind B, Logroscino C, Pointillart V, Van 
Calenbergh F, van Loon J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, 
Belgium. jan.goffin@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

Comment in
    Neurosurgery. 2003 Sep;53(3):785; author reply 785-6.

OBJECTIVE: The concept of accelerated degeneration of adjacent disc levels as a 
consequence of increased stress caused by interbody fusion of the cervical spine 
has been widely postulated. Therefore, reconstruction of a failed intervertebral 
disc with a functional disc prosthesis should offer the same benefits as fusion 
while simultaneously providing motion and thereby protecting the adjacent level 
discs from the abnormal stresses associated with fusion. This study was designed 
to determine whether a new, functional intervertebral cervical disc prosthesis 
can provide relief from objective neurological symptoms and signs, improve the 
patient's ability to perform activities of daily living, decrease pain, and 
provide stability and normal range of motion.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, concurrently enrolled, multicenter trial of 
the Bryan Cervical Disc Prosthesis (Spinal Dynamics Corp., Mercer Island, WA) 
for the treatment of patients with single-level degenerative disc disease of the 
cervical spine. Patients with symptomatic cervical radiculopathy and/or 
myelopathy underwent implantation with the Bryan prosthesis after a standard 
anterior cervical discectomy. At scheduled follow-up periods, the effectiveness 
of the device was characterized by evaluating each patient's pain, neurological 
function, and range of motion at the implanted level.
RESULTS: Analysis included data regarding 60 patients at 6 months with 30 of 
those patients at 1 year. Clinical success at 6 months and 1 year after 
implantation was 86 and 90%, respectively, exceeding the study's acceptance 
criteria of 85%. These results compare favorably with the short-term clinical 
outcomes associated with anterior cervical discectomy and fusion reported in the 
literature. At 1 year, there was no measurable subsidence of the devices (based 
on a measurement detection threshold of 2 mm). Evidence of anterior and/or 
posterior device migration was detected in one patient and suspected in a second 
patient. There was no evidence of spondylotic bridging at the implanted disc 
space. The measured range of motion in flexion-extension, as determined by an 
independent radiologist, ranged from 1 to 21 degrees (mean range of motion, 9 
+/- 5 degrees). No devices have been explanted or surgically revised.
CONCLUSION: Discectomy and implantation of the device alleviates neurological 
