symptoms and signs similar to anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. 
Radiographic evidence supports normal range of motion. The procedure is safe and 
the patients recover quickly. Restrictive postoperative management is not 
necessary. However, only after long-term follow-up of at least 5 years will it 
become clear whether the device remains functional, thus confirming these early 
favorable results. In addition, the influence on adjacent motion segments can be 
assessed after at least 5 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-200209000-00048
PMID: 12188968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Br J Cancer. 2002 Aug 27;87(5):491-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600505.

A multicentre phase II study of cisplatin and gemcitabine for malignant 
mesothelioma.

Nowak AK(1), Byrne MJ, Williamson R, Ryan G, Segal A, Fielding D, Mitchell P, 
Musk AW, Robinson BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Verdun Street, 
Nedlands, WA 6009 Australia.

Our previous phase II study of cisplatin and gemcitabine in malignant 
mesothelioma showed a 47.6% (95% CI 26.2-69.0%) response rate with symptom 
improvement in responding patients. Here we confirm these findings in a 
multicentre setting, and assess the effect of this treatment on quality of life 
and pulmonary function. Fifty-three patients with pleural malignant mesothelioma 
received cisplatin 100 mg m(-2) i.v. day 1 and gemcitabine 1000 mg m(-2) i.v. 
days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28 day cycle for a maximum of six cycles. Quality of life 
and pulmonary function were assessed at each cycle. The best response achieved 
in 52 assessable patients was: partial response, 17 (33%, 95% CI 20-46%); stable 
disease, 31 (60%); and progressive disease, four (8%). The median time to 
disease progression was 6.4 months, median survival from start of treatment 11.2 
months, and median survival from diagnosis 17.3 months. Vital capacity and 
global quality of life remained stable in all patients and improved 
significantly in responding patients. Major toxicities were haematological, 
limiting the mean relative dose intensity of gemcitabine to 75%. This schedule 
of cisplatin and gemcitabine is active in malignant mesothelioma in a 
multicentre setting. Investigation of alternative scheduling is needed to 
decrease haematological toxicity and increase the relative dose intensity of 
gemcitabine whilst maintaining response rate and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600505
PMCID: PMC2376155
PMID: 12189542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Br J Cancer. 2002 Aug 27;87(5):562-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600433.

Identical chemotherapy schedules given on and off trial protocol in small cell 
lung cancer: response and survival results.

Burgers JA(1), Arance A, Ashcroft L, Hodgetts J, Lomax L, Thatcher N.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Rotterdam, Department of Pulmonary Diseases. P.O. Box 
5201, 3008 AE Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Patients who are treated within clinical trials may have a survival benefit 
dependent on being a trial participant. A number of factors may produce such 
beneficial outcome including more rigorous adherence to a peer reviewed trial 
protocol, management by an experienced treatment team, being treated in a 
specialist centre etc. The current investigation compared patients treated on 
and off trial with the same standard arm treatment regimen. The results could 
then be interpreted without the confounding factors of differing treatment 
regimens, treatment teams or treatment hospitals. The results demonstrated given 
these circumstances that survival was no different for patients participating in 
a randomised trial compared with a group of patients similarly treated who were 
not eligible for trial entry or who declined randomisation. These results were 
obtained by the rigorous adherence to a defined protocol with the invaluable 
assistance of designated lung cancer staff.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6600433
PMCID: PMC2376145
PMID: 12189557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Hematol J. 2002;3(4):185-92. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200175.

Thalidomide in patients with advanced multiple myeloma: a study of 83 
patients--report of the Intergroupe Francophone du Myélome (IFM).

Yakoub-Agha I(1), Attal M, Dumontet C, Delannoy V, Moreau P, Berthou C, Lamy T, 
Grosbois B, Dauriac C, Dorvaux V, Bay JO, Monconduit M, Harousseau JL, Duguet C, 
Duhamel A, Facon T.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Sang, and the laboratoire de biostatistique CERIM, 
CHRU, Lille, France.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate treatment by thalidomide and identify predictive factors 
of survival, event free survival and response among patients with advanced 
multiple myeloma treated with thalidomide as single agent therapy.
PATIENTS AND TREATMENT: Patients with advanced multiple myeloma (n=83) were 
treated with an oral dose of thalidomide (median 400 mg/day). At start of 
treatment, all patients had active disease and 58 (69%) had received at least 
one autologous transplantation.
RESULTS: With a median follow-up of 338 days (range, 247-629 days), 52 patients 
are alive, whereas 31 died between 8 and 150 days after the first administration 
of thalidomide. The response to thalidomide was considered as major in 11 
patients (13%), partial in 29 patients (35%) and minor in 15 patients (18%), 
giving a total response rate of 66% (54 out of 83 patients). Thirteen patients 
had stable disease and 15 patients progressed. In multivariable analysis, age 
greater than 60 years, short interval between diagnosis and onset of 
thalidomide, requirement for red blood cell transfusion, IgA isotype, platelets' 
count <80 x 10(9)/l and serum albumin level <30 g/l at the start of thalidomide 
were associated with poor outcome. These three last factors produced a 
simplified prognostic model for patients with advanced myeloma and treated with 
thalidomide. Thus, among the 38 patients without any of these unfavorable risk 
features, one-year overall survival and event free survival were 87% and 78%. By 
contrast, the 43 patients with at least one unfavorable feature had one-year 
overall survival and event free survival of 40% and 32%, respectively (Log-Rank, 
P=0.0002 for both). Patients who received > or =34.4 g of thalidomide in the 
first 90 days of treatment had a better outcome than those who received <34.4 g. 
However, the mean received daily dose of thalidomide in the first 90 days has 
not been found to influence survival, event free survival or response. 
Short-term side effects of thalidomide were generally moderate.
CONCLUSION: Thalidomide is an effective treatment for patients with advanced 
myeloma, in particular, who have no poor-risk features. The poor results 
achieved by the other patients emphasize the need for prospective protocols 
using thalidomide in combination, especially with dexamethasone. In addition, 
further studies are needed to determine the optimal thalidomide dose and 
duration.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200175
PMID: 12189564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Hematol J. 2002;3(4):193-200. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200180.

Prolonged administration of all-trans retinoic acid in combination with 
intensive chemotherapy and G-CSF for adult acute myelogenous leukemia: 
single-centre pilot study in different risk groups.

Bassan R(1), Chiodini B, Lerede T, Giussani U, Oldani E, Buelli M, Rossi A, 
Viero P, Rambaldi A, Barbui T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Haematology, Cytogenetics Unit, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy. 
basbas@virgilio.it

INTRODUCTION: An exploratory trial was conducted to evaluate toxicity and 
potential therapeutic role of all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) given long-term 
together with chemotherapy and G-CSF to adult patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia (AML).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: ATRA was administered orally at 45 mg/m(2)/day on days 
1-14 and 25 mg/m(2)/day on days 15-28 of two standard cycles (idarubicin, 
etoposide, cytarabine, G-CSF) and of up to three high-dose courses (cytarabine, 
G-CSF). The results obtained in 19 patients enrolled in the ATRA trial were 
compared with those from 29 comparable cases treated with the same schedule 
without ATRA, according to patient risk class and an in vitro study.
RESULTS: ATRA was administered for a median of 52 days to the patients selected 
for study who achieved a remission. ATRA-related toxicity was mostly non-severe 
apart from high incidence of headache in conjunction with high-dose cytarabine. 
Complete remission (CR) rate after cycle 1 (54%), kinetics of hematological 
recovery, postremission treatment realization, disease-free survival (DFS 37.5% 
at three years) and overall survival (30% at three years) were not different 
between ATRA-treated and untreated patients. The only significant prognostic 
factor was the patient risk class, as defined by cytogenetics and other clinical 
criteria: DFS rate was 57% at three years in standard-risk cases compared to 
only 19% in the high-risk group, with no influx by ATRA in either category. The 
in vitro study, in patients with a definite clinical response, failed to 
document any inhibitory or pro-apoptotic effect of ATRA on AML blast cells.
CONCLUSION: As a consequence to these results, the pilot ATRA phase was closed. 
This study does not suggest a significant role for the present ATRA schedule as 
an adjunct to standard antileukemic therapy in adult AML.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200180
PMID: 12189565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Actas Urol Esp. 2002 Jun;26(6):408-12. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(02)72802-7.

[Expression of p21ras in locally confined renal adenocarcinoma and its 
prognostic implications].

[Article in Spanish]

Tejido Sánchez A(1), Passas Martínez J, Sánchez Chapado M, Piedra Lara JD, 
Capitán Manjón C, Ramos Guillén P, Leiva Galvis O.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid.

OBJECTIVE: The p21ras protein is encoded by the three ras genes (H-, K- and 
N-ras) and participate in the regulation of normal cell growth and cell 
differentiation. The objective of this study is to determine the expression of 
this protein in locally confined renal cell carcinoma, as well as its relations 
with different histopathological variables and their prognostic implications.
METHOD: 58 renal cell carcinomas, in pT1-T3a N0 M0 (TNM 1997) stages, treated by 
radical or partial nephrectomy with curative intention. We analysed different 
clinical and anatomopathological variables, as well as expression of p21ras in 
paraffinated tissue, using immunohistochemical techniques.
RESULTS: The mean percentage of stained nuclei was 6.1%, with a range lying 
between 0 and 45%. We did not obtain statistically significant association 
between expression of p21ras and the tumour size (p = 0.698), the nuclear grade 
(p = 0.676) or the histopathological stage (p = 0.095). The survival analysis 
also did not show significant differences when we stratified the patients using 
the mean value of the sample as reference point (p = 0.134).
CONCLUSIONS: Expression of p21ras was not demonstrated to be related to any of 
the histopathological variables analysed: size, grade and stage, or with 
survival. Therefore, this protein does not appear to be related to the evolution 
of renal cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(02)72802-7
PMID: 12189735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Scand J Caring Sci. 2002 Sep;16(3):224-31. doi: 
10.1046/j.1471-6712.2002.00060.x.

'From victim to agent': the clinical and social significance of self-help group 
participation for people with life-threatening diseases.

Adamsen L(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Centre for Nursing and Care Research, UCSF, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

AIM: The main objective of the paper is to discuss the ways in which self-help 
groups can be useful to persons with life-threatening diseases like cancer or 
human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). The 
paper offers an outline of the central characteristics of self-help groups, 
highlighted by the participants themselves.
BACKGROUND: Self-help groups are a growing phenomenon across national borders. 
New empirical sociological studies show that nurses have become important agents 
in self-help groups, both within and outside the public health-care system. 
However, research on self-help groups is a relatively new area within nursing 
studies yet it serves an important function in shedding light on a rather unique 
form of social practice organized and managed partly by the participants 
themselves.
METHODS: Qualitative interviews designed to examine how participants evaluate 
their experiences with self-help groups. The study includes 53 self-help group 
participants suffering from cancer or HIV/AIDS.
FINDINGS: Contact with other people, forming of friendships, new networks and 
increased self-confidence are some of the effects indicated by the participants. 
Participation in a self-help group has a positive impact on the patients' 
ability to cope with the psychological and social consequences of living with a 
life-threatening disease.
CONCLUSIONS: It is evident that the positive effects of self-help groups are 
mainly because of their inherent capacity for universalizing personal problems, 
which, in itself, legitimizes the scientific relevance of self-help groups. 
There is no evidence to indicate that self-help groups have a positive influence 
on the life expectancy of participants who suffer from cancer or HIV/AIDS, but 
it should be noted that this is not the explicit concern when groups are formed. 
By their very existence self-help groups indicate the need for a reevaluation of 
the scope and focus of the individualized care and nursing. The clinical and 
social significance of self-help group participation has not been sufficiently 
accounted for.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-6712.2002.00060.x
PMID: 12191033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Bull Entomol Res. 2002 Aug;92(4):271-7. doi: 10.1079/BER2002178.

Key-factor analysis of immature stages of Aedes scapularis (Diptera: Culicidae) 
populations in southeastern Brazil.

Casanova C(1), do Prado AP.

Author information:
(1)SUCEN, Rua Afonso Pessini 86, Centro, Mogi Guaçu, SP 13840-000, Brazil. 
clcasanova@ig.com.br

Development times and mortality factors were investigated for populations of 
Aedes scapularis (Rondani) occurring in natural temporary ground pools in 
southeastern Brazil. Analysis of life tables by the key-factor method showed 
that mortality caused by desiccation of breeding sites was the principal factor 
accounting for fluctuations in population sizes throughout the study period. For 
cohorts that completed development, mortality attributed to predation by aquatic 
insects ranged from 68 to 96% and was the most important cause of death. In 
these cohorts, final population size was determined by the high mortality rates 
that occurred during the fourth larval instar and pupal stages; however, the 
key-factor best accounting for the population fluctuations was predation of 
fourth instar larvae. The short mean time of 7.1 days for synchronous 
development of the larvae and the lack of evidence of density-dependent 
mortality suggested that the A. scapularis populations were not strongly 
regulated and can attain relatively high densities.

DOI: 10.1079/BER2002178
PMID: 12191434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Bull Entomol Res. 2002 Aug;92(4):279-85. doi: 10.1079/BER2002169.

Developmental and reproductive biology of Scirtothrips perseae (Thysanoptera: 
Thripidae): a new avocado pest in California.

Hoddle MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Riverside, CA, 92521, 
USA. mark.hoddle@ucr.edu

The developmental and reproductive biology of a new avocado pest, Scirtothrips 
perseae Nakahara, was determined in the laboratory at five constant 
temperatures, 15, 20, 25, 27.5 and 30 degrees C. At 20 degrees C, S. perseae 
exhibited greatest larval to adult survivorship (41%), and mated females 
produced a greater proportion of female offspring at this temperature when 
compared to 15, 25, 27.5 and 30 degrees C. Average lifetime fecundity and 
preoviposition period was greatest at 15 degrees C at 39.6 eggs per female and 
17.6 days, respectively. Jackknifed estimates of net reproduction (Ro), capacity 
for increase (rc), intrinsic rate of increase (rm), and finite rate of increase 
(lambda) were all significantly greater at 20 degrees C than corresponding 
values at 15, 25 and 27.5 degrees C. Population doubling time (Td) was 
significantly lower at 20 degrees C, indicating S. perseae populations can 
double 33-71% faster at this temperature in comparison to 15, 25 and 27.5 
degrees C. Mean adult longevity decreased with increasing temperature, from a 
maximum of 52.4 days at 15 degrees C to a minimum of 2.4 days at 30 degrees C. 
Developmental rates increased linearly with increasing temperatures for eggs and 
rates were non-linear for development of first and second instar larvae, 
propupae, pupae, and for egg to adult development. Linear regression and fitting 
of the modified Logan model to developmental rate data for egg to adult 
development estimated that 344.8 day degrees were required above a minimum 
threshold of 6.9 degrees C to complete development. An upper developmental 
threshold was estimated at 37.6 degrees C with an optimal temperature of 30.5 
degrees C for egg to adult development. Unmated females produced only male 
offspring confirming arrhenotoky in S. perseae.

DOI: 10.1079/BER2002169
PMID: 12191435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Epidemiol Rev. 2001;23(2):343-50. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.epirev.a000810.

Gender gap in longevity and disability in older persons.

Newman AB(1), Brach JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Division of Geriatric 
Medicine, 3520 Fifth Avenue, Suite 300, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.epirev.a000810
PMID: 12192741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Krankenpfl J. 2002;40(3-4):81.

[Life expectancy will increase to 100 years].

[Article in German]

Ehrenstein C.

PMID: 12192801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2002 Jun;63(3):231-4.

[Primary lymphoma of the thyroid gland].

[Article in French]

Ibnou Soufyane N(1), Chadli A, El Ghomari H, Essodegui F, Marouan F, El Farouqi 
A, Ababou MR, Kafih M.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie et Maladies Métaboliques, Maroc, France.

Malignant primary lymphoma of the thyroid gland is a rare disease generally 
occurring women in the 6(th) or 7(th) decade of life. The principal clinical 
sign is giant goiter rapidly leading to sings of compression, raising the 
question of differential diagnosis with anaplastic cancer. The radiological 
findings in our patient were suggestive of malignancy due to the locoregional 
invasion. Immunohistochemistry study of the surgical specimen was required to 
reach the definitive diagnosis of thyroid gland primary lymphoma. Diagnosis of 
malignant primary lymphoma of the thyroid gland made at the stage of extensive 
locoregional extension compromises prognosis. Our patient died after one session 
of chemotherapy.

PMID: 12193880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Pediatr Surg. 2002 Sep;37(9):1245-52. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2002.34973.

The cost-effectiveness of treatment for congenital diaphragmatic hernia.

Poley MJ(1), Stolk EA, Tibboel D, Molenaar JC, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA) and the Department of 
Pediatric Surgery, Sophia Children's Hospital, University Hospital Rotterdam, 
Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The cost-effectiveness of medical interventions is becoming 
an important issue for decision makers. Until recently, evidence of the 
cost-effectiveness of neonatal surgery was largely lacking. The authors analyzed 
the cost-effectiveness of neonatal surgery and subsequent treatment for 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH).
METHODS: Both costs incurred inside and outside the health care sector (eg, 
out-of-pocket expenses and productivity losses) were included. Quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were measured using the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire. 
Descriptive quality-of-life data were collected using a disease-specific 
questionnaire. Both costs and effects basically were measured in a life-time 
setting.
RESULTS: Total costs of treatment average euro 42,658, mainly consisting of 
costs of the initial hospitalization. Productivity losses in both the patients 
and their caregivers appear to be minor. Treated CDH patients, even adults, 
suffer from respiratory difficulties and stomach aches. According to the EQ-5D, 
however, their quality of life does not differ from the general population, 
suggesting that these symptoms barely affect overall quality of life. Treatment 
results in a gain of 17.5 QALYs. Costs per QALY amount to euro 2,434.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment for CDH has favorable cost-effectiveness. Considering the 
growing importance of cost-effective medicine, these are important and 
encouraging results. Health economics outlines the inevitability of making 
choices that directly affect patient care and places relative values on 
different health care programs. The results of this study provide convincing 
evidence that treatment for CDH is indeed cost effective.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2002.34973
PMID: 12194111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. J Texture Stud. 1999;30(6):603-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1745-4603.1999.tb00233.x.

Comparison of observed rheological properties of hard wheat flour dough with 
predictions of the Giesekus-Leonov, White-Metzner and Phan-Thien Tanner models.

Dhanasekharan M(1), Huang H, Kokini JL.

Collaborators: Janes HW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Center for Advanced Food Technology, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8520, USA.
(2)Rutgers U, New Brunswick, NJ

The measured rheological behavior of hard wheat flour dough was predicted using 
three nonlinear differential viscoelastic models. The Phan-Thien Tanner model 
gave good zero shear viscosity prediction, but overpredicted the shear viscosity 
at higher shear rates and the transient and extensional properties. The 
Giesekus-Leonov model gave similar predictions to the Phan-Thien Tanner model, 
but the extensional viscosity prediction showed extension thickening. Using high 
values of the mobility factor, extension thinning behavior was observed but the 
predictions were not satisfactory. The White-Metzner model gave good predictions 
of the steady shear viscosity and the first normal stress coefficient but it was 
unable to predict the uniaxial extensional viscosity as it exhibited asymptotic 
behavior in the tested extensional rates. It also predicted the transient shear 
properties with moderate accuracy in the transient phase, but very well at 
higher times, compared to the Phan-Thien Tanner model and the Giesekus-Leonov 
model. None of the models predicted all observed data consistently well. Overall 
the White-Metzner model appeared to make the best predictions of all the 
observed data.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-4603.1999.tb00233.x
PMID: 12194186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Soc Work. 2002 Jul;47(3):237-48. doi: 10.1093/sw/47.3.237.

Welfare use as a life course event: toward a new understanding of the U.S. 
safety net.

Rank MR(1), Hirschl TA.

Author information:
(1)George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University, 1 Brookings 
Drive, Campus Box 1196, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA. markr@gwbmail.wustl.edu

What proportion of the American population uses a social safety net program 
during the course of adulthood? To address this question, we constructed a 
series of life tables using 30 years of longitudinal data. Our results indicate 
that two-thirds of Americans between the ages of 20 and 65 will at some point 
reside in a household that receives benefits from a means-tested welfare program 
(food stamps, Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with 
Dependent Children, or other cash welfare). Such assistance is often in the form 
of in-kind programs, such as food stamps or Medicaid. The findings also indicate 
that the use of welfare tends to take place over fairly short intervals of time. 
For example, although 65 percent of Americans will use welfare by age 65, only 
15.9 percent will do so for five or more consecutive years. However, once the 
use of welfare occurs, it is quite likely to occur again at some point during 
adulthood. Our results suggest that, contrary to conventional wisdom, the use of 
the United States social safety net is a mainstream experience.

DOI: 10.1093/sw/47.3.237
PMID: 12194403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. G Ital Nefrol. 2002 Mar-Apr;19(2):168-77.

[Kidney transplantation before starting dialysis therapy].

[Article in Italian]

Segoloni GP(1), Piccoli GB, Leonardi G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Nefrologia dell'Universita' di Torino - Centro Trapianti Renali 
U.O.A.D.U. Nefrologia Dialisi e Trapianto - Azienda Ospedaliera S. Giovanni di 
Torino, Torino, Italy.

The rate of the clinical adoption of the so-called pre-emptive transplantation 
is widely different among countries. In North America it represents 25 % of the 
total living donor transplantations; in Norway and Sweden it is 15 % and 9 %, 
respectively, of all grafts performed; in Italy it is less than 1%, whilst in 
countries like Austria, Germany and Ireland pre-emptive transplantation is 
nonexistent. Some concern on this type of transplantation was raised in the 
Seventies and were mainly based on the evidence that uraemia has an 
immunosuppressive effect, which could be weaker in the pre-dialysis period. 
Several clinical observations in the pre- cyclosporin era supported this 
assumption. Starting from the Eighties, however, several studies have 
demonstrated that pre-emptive transplantation may yield better recipient and 
graft survival. Moreover, a recent retrospective study, based on higher than 
8000 living donor grafts that included both treated and untreated by long-term 
dialysis before transplantation, showed in the pre-emptive cohort a 52 % 
reduction in graft losses after the first year and also a lower incidence of 
acute rejections. Among the advantages of pre-emptive transplantation we find 
better rehabilitation and especially a lower risk of job loss. The risk of 
poorer patient compliance, as initially pointed out, has no longer been reported 
and can be overcome by adequate psychological preparation of the patient. Most 
centres performing pre-emptive transplantation favour the use of living donor 
because of the general shortage of cadaver kidney vs. the increasing number of 
dialysed patients on the waiting list. Nevertheless, in special circumstances 
(national programs with short waiting lists, uremic type I diabetics, children, 
primary type I hyperoxaluria), some AA also recommend the use of the cadaver 
donor.

PMID: 12195416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Osteoporos Int. 2002 Sep;13(9):731-7. doi: 10.1007/s001980200100.

Survival and potential years of life lost after hip fracture in men and 
age-matched women.

Trombetti A(1), Herrmann F, Hoffmeyer P, Schurch MA, Bonjour JP, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bone Diseases [WHO Collaborating Center for Osteoporosis and Bone 
Diseases], Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Geneva, 1211 
Geneva 14, Switzerland.

Hip fracture is associated with a higher mortality rate in men than in women. 
However, mean age of men and women with hip fracture differs markedly. Thus, 
some of the differences in the clinical pattern and outcome between genders 
could be related to different ages. To avoid the influence of age on 
gender-specific outcome, we analyzed prefracture conditions and hip fracture 
outcome in a cohort of men and of age-matched women. Risk factors for low bone 
mass were recorded in 106 men (mean age +/- SD, 80.3 +/- 9.3 years) and 264 
age-matched women (mean age 81.4 +/- 8.0) with hip fracture. We compared 
mortality rate, survival, years of potential life lost and modification of 
housing conditions. These outcomes were prospectively assessed during an average 
3.6 years follow-up (up to 7 years). Men with hip fracture differed from 
age-matched hip-fractured women by a higher alcohol and tobacco consumption, a 
greater frequency of living in couple, and by less prevalent fractures. 
Mortality rate after hip fracture was significantly higher in men (RR = 1.74, 
95% CI 1.34-2.24). Since mortality is higher in the general male population, we 
compared reduction in life expectancy taking into account the gender-specific 
mortality rate. The excess mortality in each age-group of hip-fractured 
patients, which was measured during the whole follow-up period, and is an 
estimate of death attributable to fracture, did not differ between genders. 
Reduction in life expectancy due to hip fracture was similar in both genders 
(5.9 +/- 4.5 and 5.8 +/- 4.8 years, in men and women, respectively; NS), but the 
proportion of the years of life lost was higher in men (70 +/- 33%) than in 
women (59 +/- 42%, p < 0.01). It was concluded that for the same age, mortality 
rate after hip fracture was higher in men than in women. Although the reduction 
in life expectancy was similar in both genders, the proportion of the years of 
life lost was higher in men, suggesting a worse impact of hip fracture on 
survival in men, even after consideration of the higher mortality rate in the 
general male population.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200100
PMID: 12195537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Osteoporos Int. 2002 Sep;13(9):738-44. doi: 10.1007/s001980200101.

Does follow-up of osteoporotic women treated with antiresorptive therapies 
improve effectiveness?

Chapurlat RD(1), Cummings SR.

Author information:
(1)Prevention Sciences Group, Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
University of California, San Francisco, California, USA. 
roland.chapurlat@laposte.net

The use of biochemical markers of bone turnover has been advocated to improve 
follow-up of women receiving antiresorptive therapies for osteoporosis, but this 
strategy is not yet supported by trials showing it improves effectiveness of 
treatments. To explore the potential value of markers of bone turnover to 
monitor antiresorptive treatments of osteoporosis, we conducted a decision 
analysis using a decision tree and Markov modeling. We have compared two 
strategies: treatment of a woman without specific monitoring; and treatment of 
this woman with measurement of a serum marker of bone resorption after 3 months 
of treatment, with change of treatment if response to treatment assessed by this 
marker was not satisfactory. The base case is the treatment of a 60-year-old 
osteoporotic woman with a total hip T-score of -3, using a second generation 
bisphosphonate during 5 years. We found that follow-up produced slightly greater 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) than no follow-up (8.1560 vs 8.1532, i.e. a 
one day difference). In a two-way sensitivity analysis, the follow-up option 
produced higher QALYs so long as adherence rate with follow-up was equal or 
superior to the proportion of women who adhered without follow-up. For example, 
if the proportion of women adherent to treatment was increased from 50% to 60% 
by follow-up, then the expected value of the follow-up branch was increased from 
8.1560 QALYs to 8.1800 QALYs (i.e. a difference of 9 days). In addition, the 
higher the non-response rate, the greater the benefit from monitoring with a 
biochemical marker. In conclusion, our decision analysis model suggests that 
follow-up of osteoporotic women treated with a second generation bisphosphonate 
during a 5-year period using an early measurement of a serum marker of bone 
resorption may increase effectiveness of the treatment on quality of life, but 
the effect is very small. So, the use of follow-up measures of bone turnover may 
be based on patient and physician preferences.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200101
PMID: 12195538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(12):1-153. doi: 10.3310/hta6120.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of surgery for people with 
morbid obesity: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Clegg AJ(1), Colquitt J, Sidhu MK, Royle P, Loveman E, Walker A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute for Health 
Research and Development, University of Southampton, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6120
PMID: 12196283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Sep;57(9):B333-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.9.b333.

Is there an antiaging medicine?

Butler RN(1), Fossel M, Harman SM, Heward CB, Olshansky SJ, Perls TT, Rothman 
DJ, Rothman SM, Warner HR, West MD, Wright WE.

Author information:
(1)International Longevity Center-USA, New York, New York, USA. 
robertb@ilcusa.rog

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 Jun;58(6):483.

In spite of considerable hype to the contrary, there is no convincing evidence 
that currently existing so-called "antiaging" remedies promoted by a variety of 
companies and other organizations can slow aging or increase longevity in 
humans. Nevertheless, a variety of experiments with laboratory animals indicate 
that aging rates and life expectancy can be altered. Research going back to the 
1930s has shown that caloric restriction (also called dietary restriction) 
extends life expectancy by 30-40% in experimental animals, presumably at least 
partially by delaying the occurrence of age-dependent diseases. Mutations that 
decrease production of insulin growth factor I in laboratory mammals, and those 
that decrease insulin-like signaling in nematodes and fruit flies, have 
increased life expectancy as well. Other general strategies that appear 
promising include interventions that reduce oxidative stress and/or increase 
resistance to stress; hormone and cell replacement therapies may also have value 
in dealing with specific age-related pathologies. This article reports the 
findings of a consensus workshop that discussed what is known about existing and 
future interventions to slow, stop, or reverse aging in animals, and how these 
might be applied to humans through future research.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.9.b333
PMID: 12196485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2002 Sep;47(3):419-22. doi: 10.1067/mjd.2002.122740.

Prognostic factors for life expectancy in nonagenarians with nonmelanoma skin 
cancer: implications for selecting surgical candidates.

Charles AJ Jr(1), Otley CC, Pond GR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatologic Surgery and the Section of Biostatistics, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists over surgical intervention for nonmelanoma skin 
cancer in the very elderly.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to define variables that are prognostic for survival in the 
elderly after surgery for skin cancer.
METHODS: We reviewed 99 charts of nonagenarians who had Mohs micrographic 
surgery for nonmelanoma skin cancer and recorded data on comorbid conditions and 
date of death. Comorbid conditions were quantified by the Charlson index.
RESULTS: Patients with Charlson scores of zero (no comorbidities) had a 
statistically significant longer survival than patients with Charlson scores of 
>/=3 (multiple comorbidities). Women survived longer than men at both 1 and 5 
years. No patient died within 30 days of operation.
CONCLUSION: Charlson scores of >/=3 in nonagenarians predict shorter survival. 
Although this parameter may predict shorter survival when skin cancer surgery is 
considered in a cohort of elderly patients, it remains difficult to predict 
accurately the survival of individual patients with scores >/=3.

DOI: 10.1067/mjd.2002.122740
PMID: 12196753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Epidemiol Prev. 2002 May-Jun;26(3):107-15.

[Western diet and Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Italian]

Berrino F(1).

Author information:
(1)Unità di epidemiologia, Istituto nazionale per lo studio e la cura dei 
tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133 Milano. berrino@istitutotumori.mi.it

Alzheimer Disease, characterised by a global impairment of cognitive functions, 
is more and more common in Western societies, both because of longer life 
expectancy and, probably, because of increasing incidence. Several hints suggest 
that this degenerative disease is linked to western diet, characterised by 
excessive dietary intake of sugar, refined carbohydrates (with high glycaemic 
index), and animal product (with high content of saturated fats), and decreased 
intake of unrefined seeds--cereals, legumes, and oleaginous seeds--and other 
vegetables (with high content of fibres, vitamins, polyphenols and other 
antioxidant substances, phytoestrogens) and, in several populations, of sea food 
(rich in n-3 fatty acids). It has been hypothesised, in fact, that AD, may be 
promoted by insulin resistance, decreased endothelial production of nitric 
oxide, free radical excess, inflammatory metabolites, homocysteine, and 
oestrogen deficiency. AD, therefore, could theoretically be prevented (or 
delayed) by relatively simple dietary measures aimed at increasing insulin 
sensitivity (trough reduction of refined sugars and saturated fats from meat and 
dairy products), the ratio between n-3 and n-6 fatty acids (e.g. from fish and 
respectively seed oils), antioxidant vitamins, folic acid, vitamin B6, 
phytoestrogens (vegetables, whole cereals, and legumes, including soy products), 
vitamin B12 (bivalve molluscs, liver), and Cr, K, Mg, and Si salts. This 
comprehensive improvement of diet would fit with all the mechanistic hypotheses 
cited above. Several studies, on the contrary, are presently exploring 
monofactorial preventive strategies with specific vitamin supplementation or 
hormonal drugs, without, however, appreciable results.

PMID: 12197047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Pediatr Med Chir. 2002 Jul-Aug;24(4):279-83.

[Influence of the early renal status on natural history of vesico-ureteral 
reflux diagnosed in the first six month of life].

[Article in Italian]

Calisti A(1), Perrotta ML, Menghini ML, Miele G.

Author information:
(1)Az. Osp. S. Camillo Forlanini Roma. a.calisti@tiscali.it

INTRODUCTION: Ultrasonographic and radionuclide imaging of kidney in presence of 
major vesicoureteric reflux, diagnosed in the first months of life, reflects a 
congenital anomaly of development of ureteric bud and metanephric blastema, more 
than a parenchymal damage secondary to superimposed infections. These lesions 
are mainly observed in male infants affected by reflux and referred on the basis 
of a prenatal diagnosis. The impact of therapy on these kidneys is still 
debated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Among 273 pediatric patients with VUR observed between 
1991 and 2000, 48 cases have been selected where a reflux grade III or greater 
had been diagnosed within the first six months of life. Cause of admission was 
prenatal diagnosis in 29 cases and recurrent infection in 19. Reflux was 
bilateral in 30 patients. Cases of VUR associated to other urological or 
neurological anomalies were excluded. A complete ultrasonographic, cystographic 
and radionuclide study was performed in all patients included in the present 
study within the fourth month of life. Mean Follow up lasted 17 months. Renal 
damage was graded by ultrasonography and DMSA renal scan on the basis or of a 
reduction in total kidney size and a poor radionuclide uptake either of an 
altered renal profile associated to focal defects of uptake.
RESULTS: Resolution of reflux within the mean follow up period, was observed in 
16 patients, even with high grade VUR, whenever major renal lesions were absent 
or focal. When severe renal damage was initially demonstrated the expectancy of 
reduction or resolution of VUR was significantly reduced and surgical option was 
considered.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with major VUR diagnosed in the first months of 
life, early renal status affects prognosis more than the severity of reflux.

PMID: 12197085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Med Lav. 2002 May-Jun;93(3):176-83.

[Urinary and blood markers of internal mercury dose in workers from a chlorakali 
plant and in subjects not occupationally exposed: relation to dental amalgam and 
fish consumption].

[Article in Italian]

Carta P(1), Flore C, Ibba A, Tocco M, Aru G, Mocci F, Sanna FR.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, Sezione di Medicina del Lavoro, Università 
degli Studi di Cagliari, Via S. Giorgio 12, 09124 Cagliari. 
cartapl@pacs.unica.it

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this paper was both to evaluate the internal dose of Hg 
in occupationally exposed workers (35 Chloralkali workers) compared to that of 
non occupationally exposed controls (40 workers of the same plant of Portotorres 
and 22 residents on the island of Carloforte, usual consumers of local fish, 
mostly tuna fish with relatively high Hg levels) and to assess the relevance of 
environmental and individual exposure factors linked to lifestyle, sea fish 
consumption and amalgam fillings.
METHODS: All subjects filled out a questionnaire concerning the working history 
and lifestyle. The amalgam fillings area was measured by medical inspection 
using a standardised schedule attached to the questionnaire. Mercury in urine 
(HgU) was measured in all cases, while in a subgroup of our study total blood 
mercury (HgB) and its organic and inorganic component were also assessed. 
Furthermore, for 8 of the Carloforte group mercury in hair was also available.
RESULTS: Values of urinary mercury excretion of the Chloralkali workers were 
significantly higher (median value of 15.4, range 4.8-35.0 micrograms/g 
creatinine, 94.3% of the cases having values > 5 micrograms/g creatinine) than 
those observed both among the reference group (median value of 1.9, range 
0.4-5.6 micrograms/g creatinine, 12.5% of the cases having values a little 
greater than 5 micrograms/g creatinine) and among the residents in Carloforte 
(median value of 6.5, range 1.8-21.5 micrograms/g creatinine, 59.1% of the cases 
having values > 5 mcg/g creatinine). The HgU values observed in this group were 
in turn significantly higher than those of the non occupationally exposed 
workers living near Sassari (p = 0.03). Only in this last group were the HgU 
concentrations statistically significantly related to the extension of the 
amalgam fillings area (Pearson r = 0.53, p < 0.01). In the Carloforte group HgU 
was significantly related to the number of fish meal consumed per week (Pearson 
r = 0.48, p < 0.02). HgB (median value of 5.9, range 3.4-21.6 micrograms/l) as 
well as its inorganic component (median value of 2.4, range 1.8-4.6 
micrograms/l) were significantly higher in the Chloralkali group compared to the 
other two groups. In all cases of the Carloforte group the ratio between the 
organic component and the total HgB was higher than 85%, while this ratio was 
significantly lower in the other two groups. The relationship between HgU and 
HgB was statistically significant, considering both total blood mercury and the 
inorganic and the organic components separately. A statistically significant 
relationship between the sea fish consumption per week and both total HgB 
(Pearson r = 0.82) and the organic component in this matrix (Pearson r = 0.84, p 
< 0.001) was observed among 16 non-occupationally exposed subjects. However, the 
significant relationship between organic blood mercury and sea fish consumption 
was almost entirely supported by the data observed in the Carloforte group. 
Total hair mercury levels analysed in 8 subjects of the Carloforte group were 
high (median value of 9.6, range 1.4-34.5 micrograms/g) and significantly 
related to sea fish consumption, and to both the individual Hg urinary excretion 
(Pearson r = 0.83) and to the organic component of blood mercury (Pearson r = 
0.87).
CONCLUSIONS: According to several experimental human and animal trials and to 
some recent studies on methylmercury toxicokinetic models, our results suggest 
that the organic compounds absorbed by usual sea fish consumption may be 
partially demethylated, increasing the inorganic Hg concentration in the kidney 
and consequently its urinary excretion, as was observed in the Carloforte group.

PMID: 12197267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2002 Sep;156(9):922-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.156.9.922.

Estimates of the incidence and costs associated with handlebar-related injuries 
in children.

Winston FK(1), Weiss HB, Nance ML, Vivarelli-O'Neill C, Strotmeyer S, Lawrence 
BA, Miller TR.

Author information:
(1)TraumaLink, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 10th Floor, 34th Street 
and Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: The US Consumer Product Safety Commission is considering handlebar 
regulation regarding impact performance to address the risk of abdominal and 
pelvic organ injuries in bicyclists.
OBJECTIVE: To provide national estimates of incidence and costs of 
handlebar-related abdominal and pelvic organ injuries.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Censuses of hospital discharge data from 19 states were 
extrapolated to determine national estimates. The percentage of abdominal and 
pelvic injuries associated with handlebars was estimated based on a case series 
from a pediatric trauma center. Costs were estimated using standard methods.
PARTICIPANTS: All subjects younger than 20 years treated as inpatients and 
discharged from acute care hospitals for non-motor vehicle bicycle-related 
injury in 19 states in 1997 and at a pediatric trauma center located in one of 
the states between January 1, 1996, and December 31, 2000.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of bicycle-related handlebar abdominal and 
pelvic organ injury, total hospital charges, lifetime medical payments, lifetime 
productivity loss, and lifetime monetized quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: An estimated 1147 subjects (95% confidence interval, 1082-1215; 1.49 
per 100 000 subjects 19 years and younger) in the United States had serious 
non-motor vehicle-involved bicycle-related abdominal or pelvic organ injury 
leading to hospitalization in 1997, and 886 (95% confidence interval, 828-944; 
1.15 per 100 000 subjects 19 years and younger) of these injuries likely were 
associated with handlebars. The estimated national costs associated with 
handlebar-related abdominal and pelvic organ injuries were $9.6 million in total 
hospital charges, $10.0 million in lifetime medical costs (including claims 
processing), $11.5 million in lifetime productivity losses, and $503.9 million 
in lifetime monetized quality-adjusted life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: Handlebar-related abdominal and pelvic organ injuries pose a 
serious health risk to children and result in substantial health care costs. 
Requirements for safer handlebar designs may provide one avenue to achieve a 
health and economic benefit.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.156.9.922
PMID: 12197801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Clin Exp Immunol. 2002 Sep;129(3):533-40. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2249.2002.01942.x.

Treatment of oral pemphigoid with intravenous immunoglobulin as monotherapy. 
Long-term follow-up: influence of treatment on antibody titres to human alpha6 
integrin.

Sami N(1), Bhol KC, Ahmed AR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Blistering Diseases, Department of Medicine, New England Baptist 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Exp Immunol. 2002 Sep;129(3):385-9.

Oral pemphigoid (OP) is a chronic autoimmune disease, involving the oral cavity, 
characterized by a homogenous linear deposition of immunoglobulins, complement, 
or both along the basement membrane zone (BMZ) and a subepithelial blister 
formation. The alpha6/beta4 heterodimer is an integrin family of adhesion 
receptors, which mediates basal cell to matrix interactions. Recent evidence 
suggests a pathophysiologic role for antibodies against human alpha6 integrin in 
blister formation in OP, in organ culture studies. Fifty percent of OP patients 
have been reported to experience disease progression to involve other mucosal 
tissues, including the eye and larynx. To prevent this extension of disease, 
systemic therapy with systemic corticosteroids, dapsone, and immunosuppressive 
agents has been recommended. The use of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) in the 
treatment of pemphigoid has been recently described. In this study, we present 
the use of IVIg, in a group of seven patients, with severe OP, in whom systemic 
conventional treatment was contraindicated. To determine the influence of 
treatment on antibodies to human alpha6 integrin in OP, seven patients with OP 
treated with IVIg therapy and a comparable control group of seven patients with 
OP, treated with conventional therapy, were evaluated at monthly intervals, for 
a 12 consecutive month treatment period. An effective clinical response was 
observed in all seven patients treated with IVIg therapy, after a mean treatment 
period of 4.5 months. IVIg therapy induced a prolonged and sustained clinical 
remission in all seven patients after a mean treatment period of 26.9 months. A 
statistically significant difference was observed in the quality of life pre- 
and post-IVIg therapy (P < 0.001). Both the study and the control groups had a 
very similar initial serological response to treatment. A statistically 
significant reduction in the antibody titres was observed after four months of 
treatment, in both groups (P = 0.015). Thereafter, patients treated with IVIg 
therapy had a faster rate of decline in the antibody titres, and the difference 
in the rate of decline between the study and control groups became statistically 
significant after six months of treatment (P = 0.03). The use of IVIg therapy 
resulted in reduction of antialpha6 antibody titres and in inducing and 
maintaining both a sustained, clinical and serological remission.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2249.2002.01942.x
PMCID: PMC1906475
PMID: 12197896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2002 Sep;57(5):S294-307. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/57.5.s294.

Old age mortality in Japan: does the socioeconomic gradient interact with gender 
and age?

Liang J(1), Bennett J, Krause N, Kobayashi E, Kim H, Brown JW, Akiyama H, 
Sugisawa H, Jain A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and policy, School of Public Health, 
University of Michigan, 109 S. Observatory, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA. 
jliang@umich.edu

OBJECTIVES: There is limited knowledge concerning how the effects of 
socioeconomic status (SES) on mortality interact with gender and age. In 
addition, current studies are largely based on data from the Western nations. 
The validity of prior observations needs to be further evaluated. This research 
examines socioeconomic inequalities in old age mortality in Japan, with a 
special emphasis on how inequalities interact with gender and age.
METHODS: Data came from a 5-wave panel study of a national probability sample of 
2,200 elderly Japanese conducted between 1987 and 1999. Hazard rate models 
involving time-varying covariates were used to ascertain the direct and indirect 
effects of SES. In addition, interaction effects involving SES variables with 
age and gender were evaluated.
RESULTS: In contrast to prior findings from the Western developed nations, there 
is an educational crossover effect on mortality among older men, in that, at 
advanced age, those with less education live longer than those with higher 
education. On the other hand, there is some evidence that educational 
differences in the risk of dying tend to converge in the 70-79 age group. More 
interestingly, there is a crossover in the effect of education among the 80 and 
older age group.
DISCUSSION: The observation that educational crossover exists only among elderly 
men may be because of gender and SES differences in causes of death, morbidity, 
and health behavior. On the other hand, possible explanations for age 
differences in the educational crossover include selective survival and cohort 
effects.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/57.5.s294
PMID: 12198109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2002 Aug 29;418(6901):921. doi: 10.1038/418921a.

A lethal side-effect.

Partridge L(1), Gems D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

DOI: 10.1038/418921a
PMID: 12198525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

