
504. Aging Male. 2002 Jun;5(2):87-97.

Health-related quality of life in old age: preliminary report on the male 
perspective.

Deck R(1), Kohlmann T, Jordan M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin der Medizinischen Universität Lübeck, Beckergrube 
43-47, 23552 Lübeck, Germany.

Health-related quality of life is a key element of successful aging. With life 
expectancy increasing, postmenopausal estrogen/gestagen replacement therapy has 
been under discussion for some time with the aim of achieving a higher quality 
of life in old age. For a long time, the relevance of hormonal aging was only 
discussed with reference to women; however, more recent work deals with concepts 
that affect both sexes. According to recent studies, numerous symptoms and 
complaints which may impair quality of life, can be attributed to hormonal 
changes in old age in both women and men. The majority of age-related 
complaints, such as a decline in physical performance, decreased sexual activity 
and a deterioration of general well-being, are strongly reminiscent of the 
symptoms of classical pituitary disorders in adulthood. Since the early 1990s, 
scientific studies have also been investigating the influence of hormone 
'replacement' in elderly men, using, for example, growth hormones. However, 
until now there has been no suitable measure for assessing the quality of life 
specifically in elderly men. In a research project aimed at developing a 
questionnaire (the VITA questionnaire), roughly equal numbers of elderly men and 
women were asked about their subjective health and quality of life. It was found 
that men assessed their health-related quality of life very positively in a 
number of different dimensions of the questionnaire. In the present article the 
individual aspects of the quality of life of men are described and examples of 
gender-related differences are presented and discussed.

PMID: 12198739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Biomed Inform. 2001 Dec;34(6):428-39. doi: 10.1006/jbin.2002.1038.

Modeling medical prognosis: survival analysis techniques.

Ohno-Machado L(1).

Author information:
(1)Decision Systems Group, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Health Science and 
Technology Division, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, 75 Francis Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
machado@dsg.harvard.edu

Medical prognosis has played an increasing role in health care. Reliable 
prognostic models that are based on survival analysis techniques have been 
recently applied to a variety of domains, with varying degrees of success. In 
this article, we review some methods commonly used to model time-oriented data, 
such as Kaplan-Meier curves, Cox proportional hazards, and logistic regression, 
and discuss their applications in medical prognosis. Nonlinear, nonparametric 
models such as neural networks have increasingly been used for building 
prognostic models. We review their use in several medical domains and discuss 
different implementation strategies. Advantages and disadvantages of these 
methods are outlined, as well as pointers to pertinent literature.

DOI: 10.1006/jbin.2002.1038
PMID: 12198763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2002;19(5):385-90. doi: 10.1023/a:1016361924216.

Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas 
indicative of the incidence of metastases.

Volm M(1), Koomägi R, Mattern J, Efferth T.

Author information:
(1)German Cancer Research Center, Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, D-69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany.

The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate firstly whether different 
protein expression patterns exist in primary squamous cell lung carcinomas of 
patients with and without lymph node involvement and secondly, whether or not 
different patterns exist in tumours with positive lymph nodes. For this reason, 
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell 
lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. In a first step, proteins 
were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement. The 
expression of JUN, ERBB2, MYC, cyclin D, PCNA, bFGF, VEGF and Hsp70 proteins 
revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement. In contrast, 
caspase-3, Fas ligand, Fas/CD95, and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph 
node involvement. In a second step, these parameters were further analyzed by 
hierarchical cluster analyses. The resulting clusters were correlated to 
patients with or without lymph node involvement. The data show that different 
protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas 
with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node 
involvement. The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016361924216
PMID: 12198766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2002;19(5):401-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1016368708107.

Overexpression of c-erbB-2 protein correlates with chromosomal gain at the 
c-erbB-2 locus and patient survival in advanced colorectal carcinomas.

Knösel T(1), Yu Y, Stein U, Schwabe H, Schlüns K, Schlag PM, Dietel M, Petersen 
I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Charité-Campus Mitte, Berlin, Germany.

Overexpression of the c-erbB-2 protein (also called HER-2/neu) is observed in a 
variety of malignancies including colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study we 
aimed to evaluate the rate of c-erbB-2 overexpression in our tumor collection 
and to clarify its correlation with the chromosomal status at the c-erbB-2 locus 
in CRC. Additionally we correlated the c-erbB-2 overexpression and the 
chromosomal gain of 17q with patient survival. Seventy-four specimens were 
analyzed immunohistochemically using a polyclonal c-erbB-2 antibody (DAKO) and 
the staining was scored according to the Clinical Trial Assay recommendations 
(0-3+). Of these, 45 cases were analyzed by comparative genomic hybridization 
(CGH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Overexpression was observed in 51% of the 
cases (score > or = 2). Chromosomal gains at the c-erbB-2 locus were clearly 
correlated with overexpression of the gene (P = 0.0009). Furthermore 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that overexpression of c-erbB-2 was significantly 
associated with poor survival and thus could serve as a prognostic marker. We 
conclude that c-erbB-2 is related with tumor progression in CRC which can be 
observed on protein level and reflects chromosomal gain at the locus at 17q.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016368708107
PMID: 12198768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2002 Aug 10;146(32):1479-83.

['Survival of the fittest': effect of regular physical exercise on health and 
life expectancy].

[Article in Dutch]

Birkenhäger WH(1), de Leeuw PW.

Author information:
(1)Academinish Ziekenhuis, afd. Interne Geneeskunde, Maastricht.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2002 Aug 10;146(32):1483-7.

According to the 'Australian burden of disease study', physical inactivity 
appears to be a leading risk factor in the population at large, accounting for 
no less than 6.7% of the total loss of disability-adjusted life years. In women 
it is even the most important risk factor. Regular physical mobility and 
exercise can reduce this negative influence. The effects are: improvement of 
cardiovascular fitness, prevention of coronary events, and the reduction of 
excess mortality. The mortality risk may be reduced by 47% by physical activity, 
depending on the energy expenditure. Especially the studies of the last two 
years have so convincingly proven a robust effect of daily physical exercise 
that on this point permissiveness is no longer acceptable in the advice to the 
population at large.

PMID: 12198825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Health Expect. 2002 Sep;5(3):210-22. doi: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00182.x.

Resource allocation, social values and the QALY: a review of the debate and 
empirical evidence.

Schwappach DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Faculty of Medicine, University 
Witten/Herdecke, Witten, Germany. dlb@healthecon.de

Most health economists agree that public preferences should play a major role in 
setting criteria for distributing scarce resources. The quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) is used as a preference-based measure for the outcome of health-care 
activities in health economic evaluative studies. Traditionally, health 
economists proposed maximizing the additional health gain in terms of QALYs so 
as to maximize social welfare. Evidence has grown however, that neither 
potential health gain as a single relevant determinant of value, nor the rule of 
maximizing this health gain are sufficient. Concerns about fairness and equity 
are also important to the public in distributional decisions. This paper reviews 
the debate on the role and limitations of the QALY in health-care priority 
setting and the empirical evidence surrounding it. A framework is used to 
systematically explore the available data on factors considered to be important 
to the public in health-care resource allocation, and to investigate how these 
fit with the implicit value judgements inherent in the original QALY 
formulation. Potential sources of social value are classified into (1) factors 
that relate to the characteristics of patients and (2) factors related to the 
characteristics of the intervention's effect on patients' health. As well as 
these main categories, the article considers preferences for distributional 
rules. Recent approaches that aim to capture public preferences more 
comprehensively and to better reflect the value attributed to different 
health-care programmes in economic evaluation methods are outlined briefly.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2002.00182.x
PMCID: PMC5060157
PMID: 12199660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2002 Nov;34(11):1415-29. doi: 
10.1016/s1357-2725(02)00034-1.

From the Hayflick mosaic to the mosaics of ageing. Role of stress-induced 
premature senescence in human ageing.

Toussaint O(1), Remacle J, Dierick JF, Pascal T, Frippiat C, Zdanov S, Magalhaes 
JP, Royer V, Chainiaux F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Research Unit of Cellular Biology (URBC), University 
of Namur, Rue de Bruxelles 61, B-5000, Namur, Belgium. 
olivier.toussaint@fundp.ac.be

The Hayflick limit-senescence of proliferative cell types-is a fundamental 
feature of proliferative cells in vitro. Various human proliferative cell types 
exposed in vitro to many types of subcytotoxic stresses undergo stress-induced 
premature senescence (SIPS) (also called stress-induced premature 
senescence-like phenotype, according to the definition of senescence). The known 
mechanisms of appearance the main features of SIPS are reviewed: senescent-like 
morphology, growth arrest, senescence-related changes in gene expression, 
telomere shortening. Long before telomere-shortening induces senescence, other 
factors such as culture conditions or lack of 'feeder cells' can trigger either 
SIPS or prolonged reversible G(0) phase of the cell cycle. In vivo, 
'proliferative' cell types of aged individuals are likely to compose a mosaic 
made of cells irreversibly growth arrested or not. The higher level of stress to 
which these cells have been exposed throughout their life span, the higher 
proportion of the cells of this mosaic will be in SIPS rather than in 
telomere-shortening dependent senescence. All cell types undergoing SIPS in 
vivo, most notably the ones in stressful conditions, are likely to participate 
in the tissular changes observed along ageing. For instance, human diploid 
fibroblasts (HDFs) exposed in vivo and in vitro to pro-inflammatory cytokines 
display biomarkers of senescence and might participate in the degradation of the 
extracellular matrix observed in ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/s1357-2725(02)00034-1
PMID: 12200036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2002 Nov;34(11):1491-5. doi: 
10.1016/s1357-2725(02)00044-4.

LAG1 puts the focus on ceramide signaling.

Jazwinski SM(1), Conzelmann A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, 1901 Perdido Street, PO Box P7-2, New Orleans, LA 70112, 
USA. sjazwi@1suhsc.edu

Longevity-assurance gene 1 (LAG 1) is a yeast longevity gene. Homologues of the 
Lag 1 protein can be found throughout phylogeny, although sequence similarity is 
very limited. The Lag 1 protein is located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), 
where it helps to accelerate the transport of glycosylphosphatidylinositol 
(GPI)-anchored proteins to the Golgi. This function of Lag 1 p results from its 
participation in ceramide synthesis. Thus, Lag 1 p and its homologues are likely 
to play a role in ceramide signaling, which affects growth, proliferation, 
stress resistance, and apoptosis. This provides a wide range of physiologic 
processes through which Lag 1 p may impinge upon life span.

DOI: 10.1016/s1357-2725(02)00044-4
PMID: 12200041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Urban Health. 2002 Sep;79(3):434-5. doi: 10.1093/jurban/79.3.434.

Population impact of mass incarceration under New York's Rockefeller drug laws: 
an analysis of years of life lost.

Drucker E(1).

Author information:
(1)Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine, USA. 
drucker@aecom.yu.edu

DOI: 10.1093/jurban/79.3.434
PMCID: PMC3456796
PMID: 12200514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Invest New Drugs. 2002 Aug;20(3):327-30. doi: 10.1023/a:1016270206374.

Phase II trial of arsenic trioxide in patients with metastatic renal cell 
carcinoma.

Vuky J(1), Yu R, Schwartz L, Motzer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, 
USA.

Fourteen patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) were treated on a 
Phase II trial with arsenic trioxide (As2O3). Eligible patients had metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma with bidimensionally measurable disease, a Karnofsky 
performance status of at least 70%, life expectancy of greater than three 
months, and no evidence of brain metastases. Arsenic trioxide was given 
intravenously at a dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day for five consecutive days every four 
weeks. The most common toxicity observed was grade II elevation in liver 
function tests (36%), anemia (21%), renal insufficiency (14%), rash (7%), and 
diarrhea (7%). Best response was stable disease in 3 patients with one patient 
remaining on study at 8+ months At the dose and schedule used in this trial, 
arsenic trioxide did not achieve a complete or partial response in metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016270206374
PMID: 12201495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(11):739-47. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200220110-00003.

Valuation of symptomatic hepatitis a in adults: estimates based on time 
trade-off and willingness-to-pay measurement.

Jacobs RJ(1), Moleski RJ, Meyerhoff AS.

Author information:
(1)Capitol Outcomes Research, Inc, Alexandria,Virginia 22310, USA. 
Jake.Jacobs@CapitolOutcomesResearch.com

BACKGROUND: The cost effectiveness of hepatitis A prevention is typically 
assessed by comparing vaccination costs with the number of life-years saved. 
This endpoint does not consider the benefits of preventing nonfatal yet 
symptomatic infections. Nearly as many days of healthy life are lost to 
hepatitis A morbidity as mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the value American adults place on preventing 
hepatitis A symptoms by using the willingness-to-pay and time trade-off metrics.
METHODS: We provided a written description of hepatitis A symptoms to 181 
American adults, who judged the amounts of money and lifespan they would forego 
to avoid them. The description made no reference to the possibility of fatality, 
and respondents were asked not to consider costs of medical care and work loss. 
We investigated relationships between demographic characteristics and each 
metric, the relationship between the two metrics, and the test/re-test 
reliability of the metrics.
RESULTS: Respondents would pay a median of dollars US 2000 (inter-quartile 
range, dollars US 500 to 5000; 2001 values) for risk-free prevention of 
hepatitis A symptoms. Alternatively, they would forego a median of 28 days 
survival (inter-quartile range, 6 to 40 days) for cost-free prevention. There 
was modest correlation between willingness-to-pay and time trade-off responses 
(r = 0.24, p < 0.01), suggesting these metrics measure independent aspects of 
preference. Strong correlations between measures obtained 30 days apart support 
the test/re-test reliability of willingness to pay (r = 0.70, p < 0.01) and time 
trade-off (r = 0.73, p < 0.01) metrics. In multivariate analyses, higher 
household income (p = 0.02) predicted greater willingness to pay in dollars. 
Male gender (p < 0.01) predicted greater willingness to forego life expectancy 
for better health.
CONCLUSION: In our study population of US adults, most were willing to pay or 
trade life expectancy for a hypothetical preventative drug for hepatitis A 
symptoms. The amount respondents were willing to pay appears dependent on their 
income level while males are willing to trade more life expectancy than female 
respondents. The values expressed should be considered in assessments of 
hepatitis A prevention.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220110-00003
PMID: 12201793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Value Health. 2002 Sep-Oct;5(5):405-21. doi:
10.1046/J.1524-4733.2002.55147.x.

The cost-effectiveness of alternative therapeutic strategies for the management 
of chronic hepatitis B in Poland.

Orlewska E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University of 
Warsaw, ul. Kremowa 13, 02-969 Warsaw, Poland. ewaorlewska@go2.pl

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
alternative therapeutic strategies for the management of chronic hepatitis B 
(CHB) in Poland.
METHODS: The model for the Polish health-care context was based on clinical data 
from the literature and local data on health-care resource utilization and unit 
costs. Costs and effects of a population of CHB patients were modeled using four 
scenarios, which attempt to reflect real-life practice in which patients may 
receive any of the treatment options available and in which a proportion of 
patients may still receive no treatment because therapy is not suitable. 
Strategies A and B assumed the availability of both treatment options: the first 
choice of treatment is in A, lamivudine, and in B, interferon alpha (IFN-alpha). 
In strategy C, the only approved treatment is IFN-alpha, and in strategy D, the 
patients receive no antiviral treatment. The outcome measures were HBeAg 
seroconversion and nonprogression to cirrhosis-the surrogate marker with 
predictive value for improved survival. Only direct medical costs were analyzed. 
The payer's perspective and time horizon of 1 year were adopted. One-way 
sensitivity analysis and extreme scenario analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The best results in terms of seroconversion and nonprogression to 
cirrhosis were achieved for strategy A, costs were lowest for strategy D, and 
strategies B and C were dominated by strategy A. The incremental 
cost/effectiveness ratio (ICER) comparing strategy A with strategy D was 57,855 
Polish new zloty (PLN) per extra seroconversion and 79,550 PLN per cirrhosis 
case avoided.
CONCLUSIONS: Cirrhosis reduces estimated life expectancy by 37.76 years and by 
20 years among 30- and 50-year-olds, respectively. The ICER for strategies A and 
D was 2105 PLN and 3978 PLN per life-years gained for the population at ages 30 
and 50, respectively, and was below the suggested threshold for 
cost-effectiveness, based on treatment costs for 1 year of hemodialysis in 
Poland (62,400 PLN). Changing the value of key drivers for sensitivity analysis 
did not have a significant effect on the ICER.

DOI: 10.1046/J.1524-4733.2002.55147.x
PMID: 12201858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Prev Med. 2002 Sep;35(3):225-31. doi: 10.1006/pmed.2002.1072.

Health status and hospital utilization of recent immigrants to New York City.

Muennig P(1), Fahs MC.

Author information:
(1)Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, City University of New York, 
138th Street & Convent Avenue, New York, NY 10032, USA. petermuennig@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: This paper examines hospital utilization, estimated hospital costs, 
and mortality rates for U.S.-born, foreign-born, and Puerto Rican-born persons 
residing in New York City.
METHODS: We conducted a multivariate regression analysis using New York City 
neighborhoods as the unit of analysis. We utilized data from the Statewide 
Planning and Research Cooperative System data set and from the 1997 Housing and 
Vacancy Survey. We also examined mortality rates using 1990 death certificate 
data and decennial census data.
RESULTS: The foreign-born are much less likely to be hospitalized for most major 
categories of illness and have lower mortality rates than either U.S.-born or 
Puerto Rican-born New Yorkers. The life expectancy at 1 year of age of the 
foreign-born is 4 years longer than for U.S.-born persons and 6 years longer 
than Puerto Rican-born persons. We estimate that the overall cost of providing 
hospital-based care to the foreign-born was $611 million US dollars less than 
the cost of providing hospital-based care to an equivalent number of U.S.-born 
persons in 1996.
CONCLUSION: The foreign-born in New York City appear to be healthier and consume 
fewer hospital resources than U.S.-born populations. It is possible that the 
cost of hospital utilization would be lower still if the foreign-born population 
had better access to ambulatory and preventive services.

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.2002.1072
PMID: 12202064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol. 2002 Oct;43(3):373-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00244-002-1268-2.

Determining demographic effects of cypermethrin in the marine copepod Acartia 
tonsa: stage-specific short tests versus life-table tests.

Barata C(1), Medina M, Telfer T, Baird DJ.

Author information:
(1)Environment Group, Institute of Aquaculture, University of Stirling, Stirling 
FK9 4LA, Scotland, UK. cbmqam@cid.csic.es

Short-term lethal and sublethal responses of the calanoid copepod Acartia tonsa 
to cypermethrin were compared with life-table responses to assess whether or not 
it is necessary to use exposure periods longer than 5 days to estimate 
demographic responses to stress. More specifically, by limiting exposure periods 
to sensitive age classes (eggs, nauplii, copepodids, and adults) and including 
measurements on survival, egg production, and feeding rates, it was possible to 
derive a short test design of similar sensitivity and ecological relevance as 
full life-table tests. Short-term exposures to cypermethrin reduced copepodid's 
feeding rates at concentrations well below those affecting egg production rates 
and survival of eggs and adult stages. Lethal effects on naupliar stages 
occurred at lower concentrations than any other effect observed on eggs and 
adults. Life-table sensitivities of the intrinsic rate of increase ( r(m)) to 
cypermethrin were similar to those observed in short-term exposures. More 
specifically, exposure to cypermethrin impaired r(m) responses at concentrations 
(7.4 ng x L(-1)) that also affected feeding and naupliar responses. Our results 
show that by quantifying and separating combined toxic effects on ecologically 
relevant individual life-history traits, it is possible to develop toxicity test 
designs of similar ecological relevance yet that are less labor-intensive and 
costly than existing demographic tests.

DOI: 10.1007/s00244-002-1268-2
PMID: 12202935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Psychooncology. 2002 Jul-Aug;11(4):295-306. doi: 10.1002/pon.566.

Lay constructions of decision-making in cancer.

Henman MJ(1), Butow PN, Brown RF, Boyle F, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Unit, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

In recent years there has been increased emphasis on involving people in 
decision-making about their medical care. However, few studies have addressed 
the questions of why women with cancer want information, and what they believe 
to be the important factors influencing their decision-making. In order to 
examine these questions 20 women with cancer were interviewed via telephone 2 
weeks after their first consultation with one of 6 medical oncologists. 
Recruitment continued until informational redundancy was achieved. While women 
cited the risk of recurrence, life expectancy, side-effects, and quality of life 
as influencing their decisions, they placed at least as much emphasis on their 
personal relationship with the specialist. These 'personal' factors included: 
feeling that the doctor cared for, understood and respected them; that they 
could trust and have confidence in the doctor; that the doctor would give them 
enough time; that they would be listened to; and that the doctor would be open 
and honest. If these factors were felt to be present, many women were happy to 
accept the doctor's recommendation, confident that they would receive the 
optimum treatment. However, many women felt there was no decision to be made: 
further treatment must be undertaken to reduce risk, and minor variations in the 
treatment protocol were of little significance. These results underline the 
importance of establishing patient priorities and concerns before embarking on 
discussions about treatment.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.566
PMID: 12203743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Health Econ. 2002 Sep;11(6):471-83. doi: 10.1002/hec.753.

Disentangling the effects of morbidity and life expectancy on labor market 
outcomes.

Auld MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Using a unique longitudinal dataset tracking the experiences of patients 
diagnosed with HIV+ disease, this paper develops and estimates a model capable 
of recovering the effect of revisions in life expectancy on labor market 
outcomes. The data allow us to estimate the effect of changes in health status 
(as objectively measured by CD4 counts) and the impact of learning that one is 
HIV+, which we interpret as a negative shock to life expectancy. Both parametric 
and distribution-free models robustly indicate that decreases in health have 
little effect on labor demand but decrease probability of employment. We 
conclude that, in this sample, negative association between income and health is 
attributable mostly to the effect of altered incentives induced by changes in 
life expectancy.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.753
PMID: 12203751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2002 Sep;34(3):232-6. doi: 10.1002/ppul.10135.

Early infection and progression of cystic fibrosis lung disease.

Koch C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is the major limitation in overall 
survival of patients with cystic fibrosis, and elective bronchoscopy shows that 
infection with this organism starts at a very early age. Early infection with 
nonmucoid P. aeruginosa gradually develops into chronic infection, characterized 
by the presence of microcolonies of alginate-producing (mucoid) P. aeruginosa in 
the bronchial tree. Chronic infection cannot be cured, but aggressive 
antimicrobial treatment will prolong life expectancy and decrease morbidity. It 
has, however, over the last decade become evident that early antimicrobial 
treatment of the initial infection with nonmucoid strains can prevent or at 
least postpone transition into chronic (mucoid) infection. This treatment 
strategy is likely to dramatically improve the prognosis of patients with cystic 
fibrosis in the immediate future.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.10135
PMID: 12203855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2002 Sep;34(3):242-7. doi: 10.1002/ppul.10137.

Evidence-based medicine in cystic fibrosis: how should practice change?

Conway SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, St. James's and Seacroft Hospitals, Leeds, United 
Kingdom.

This critical review of current practice and research in some aspects of cystic 
fibrosis (CF) concludes that, despite recent success in prolonging life 
expectancy, there is still room for improvement in terms of earlier diagnosis 
and earlier intervention in some of its complications. Specifically, the body of 
evidence implies that neonatal diagnosis; early attention to nutrition, 
staphylococcal and pseudomonal infection, and diabetes mellitus; and early 
treatment with dornase alfa can all be expected to improve patients' quality and 
quantity of life.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.10137
PMID: 12203857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2002 Jul-Aug;18(4):273-85. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.312.

Considerations on blood glucose management in Type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Home P(1), Chacra A, Chan J, Emslie-Smith A, Sorensen L, Crombrugge PV; 
Worldwide Initiative for Diabetes Education (WorldWIDE).

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. Philip.Home@newcastle.ac.uk

In recent years the benefits of more intensive management in preventing or 
delaying the development and progression of diabetic complications have been 
well documented. What is not as well documented is how to motivate the person 
with diabetes to manage the condition, how to set, assess and quantify glucose 
goals, and the glucose variables that should be routinely measured. This review 
discusses the importance of setting targets and communicating them in a way that 
the patient understands. When aiming for a glycaemia target, balance is required 
(1) between achieving reduction of complications and causing an increased degree 
of hypoglycaemia, and (2) between what is achievable and what degree of benefit 
is gained. Target values given in guidelines should be adapted by the clinician 
to take into account the patient's susceptibility to hypoglycaemia, stage and 
type of complications, age and life expectancy, co-morbidity, social 
environment, understanding of the steps required and level of commitment to the 
treatment. Several suggestions are given regarding possible improvements and 
amendments to existing guidelines for diabetes management in treating to glucose 
goal. For example, attention should be drawn to the need to individualize goals 
and to consider education, long-term support, patient needs and treatment 
outcome when formulating diabetes management plans. The relative properties of 
the different glucose variables-fasting plasma glucose (FPG), postprandial 
plasma glucose (PPG), glycated haemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)), and glycated 
protein-in terms of their convenience of measurement, usefulness and relevance 
to the physician and patient are also evaluated. When prioritising the variables 
to be measured it is suggested that where feasible, HbA(1c) should be the 
standard measurement by which to gauge risk and treatment efficacy. Serial 
measurements should be made and, where possible, the use of blood glucose meters 
encouraged, in order to obtain a blood glucose profile for the patient.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.312
PMID: 12203943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00019.

Prognostic disclosure.

Grossman D.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1096-105.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00019
PMID: 12204026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00020.

Prognostic disclosure.

GuntherMaher M.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1096-105.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00020
PMID: 12204028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 3;137(5 Part 1):368; author reply 368-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00018.

Prognostic disclosure.

Webster JR Jr.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 Jun 19;134(12):1096-105.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-137-5_part_1-200209030-00018
PMID: 12204029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Proc Biol Sci. 2002 Aug 22;269(1501):1633-7. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2002.2078.

Supine behaviour predicts the time to death in male Mediterranean fruitflies 
(Ceratitis capitata).

Papadopoulos NT(1), Carey JR, Katsoyannos BI, Kouloussis NA, Müller HG, Liu X.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Zoology and Parasitology, Department of Agriculture, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece.

Over 97% of the 203 male medflies monitored in a lifetime study of their 
behaviour exhibited what we term supine behaviour (temporary upside-down 
orientation) starting an average of 16.1 days prior to their death (mean 
lifespan of 61.7 days). Supine onset increased the mortality risk by 39.5-fold 
and a unit increase in supine level increased mortality by 26.3%. The discovery 
that behavioural traits in insects can be used as biomarkers of their health and 
to predict their time to death has important implications regarding research on 
morbidity dynamics, behavioural neuroethology and gerontology, and the 
interpretation of longevity extension in model organisms.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2002.2078
PMCID: PMC1691077
PMID: 12204122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nurs Stand. 2001 Sep 12-18;15(52):12. doi: 10.7748/ns.15.52.12.s32.

Equal opportunity.

Dinsdale P.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.15.52.12.s32
PMID: 12205849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Health News. 2002 Aug;8(8):8.

Added golden years from smoking cessation.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12206150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2002 Sep;21(9):1903-7.

Demographic responses of the polychaete Dinophilus gyrociliatus to chromium 
exposure.

Mauri M(1), Simonini R, Baraldi E.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animate, Università di Modena e Reggio Emilia, 
Italy. mauri.marina@unimo.it

The effects of chromium on the life history and demography of Dinophilus 
gyrociliatus (Polychaeta) were studied on a control and three treated cohorts 
kept in artificial seawater enriched with nominal concentrations of chromium at 
1.0, 1.4, and 1.6 microg/ml. Survival and fecundity were significantly reduced 
by chromium. Fecundity was higher in the chromium treatments than in the control 
group at the beginning of the reproductive period; however, overall, the highest 
fecundity was observed in the control. Life expectancy, net growth rate, and 
generation time were also significantly reduced by chromium. The population 
growth rate (lambda) was higher in the treated animals than in the controls. The 
differences in lambda between the treated animals and the controls (deltalambda) 
were almost completely due to the differences in the life tables observed during 
the first three weeks of life. The differences in survival between the treated 
and control animals did not contribute to deltalambda. The contribution to 
deltalambda of the slight increase in age-specific fecundity in the early 
reproductive events compensated for the marked decrease in overall fecundity in 
the treated animals. The complex effects of chromium enrichment on D. 
gyrociliatus underline the importance of analyzing both individual and 
population responses when assessing the effects of pollutants on organisms. Our 
results confirm that D. gyrociliatus might serve as an indicator species in 
confined areas of polluted seawater such as lagoons and harbors.

PMID: 12206430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. BMC Public Health. 2002 Sep 3;2:17. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-2-17. Epub 2002
Sep  3.

Is council tax valuation band a predictor of mortality?

Beale NR(1), Taylor GJ, Straker-Cook DM.

Author information:
(1)Northlands R & D General Practice, Calne, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: All current UK indices of socio-economic status have inherent 
problems, especially those used to govern resource allocation to the health 
sphere. The search for improved markers continues: this study proposes and tests 
the possibility that Council Tax Valuation Band (CTVB) might match requirements.
PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: To determine if there is an association between 
CTVB of final residence and mortality risk using the death registers of a UK 
general practice.
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS: Standardised death rates and odds ratios (ORs) for 
groups defined by CTVB of dwelling (A - H) were calculated using one in four 
denominator samples from the practice lists. Analyses were repeated three times 
- between number of deaths and CTVB of residence of deceased 1992 - 1994 
inclusive, 1995 - 1997 inc., 1998 - 2000 inc. In 856 deaths there were 
consistent and significant differences in death rates between CTVBs: above 
average for bands A and B residents; below average for other band residents. 
There were significantly higher ORs for A, B residents who were female and who 
died prematurely (before average group life expectancy).
IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: CTVB of final residence appears to be a proxy 
marker of mortality risk and could be a valuable indicator of health needs 
resource at household level. It is worthy of further exploration.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-2-17
PMCID: PMC128827
PMID: 12207828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2002 Oct 8;89(1-2):47-56. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-2427(02)00169-1.

Immunological differences between layer- and broiler-type chickens.

Koenen ME(1), Boonstra-Blom AG, Jeurissen SH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Animal Sciences, Institute for Animal Science and Health, 
ID-Lelystad, P.O. Box 65, 8200 AB Lelystad, The Netherlands. 
m.e.koenen@id.wag-ur.nl

In commercial poultry husbandry, alternatives for the use of antibiotics and 
vaccines are under investigation, which preferably have to be applicable for 
both layer- and broiler-type chickens. There are indications that the defense 
mechanisms vary between layer- and broiler-type chickens. Therefore, the 
difference in immune response between layer- and broiler-type chickens of the 
same age was investigated, using TNP-KLH (trinitrophenyl-conjugated keyhole 
limpet hemocyanin) as antigen without adjuvant. First different routes of 
immunization (intravenously, intramuscular, subcutaneous and ocular) were 
examined to find out which immunization route gives the highest antibody titers. 
The intravenous immunization route resulted in higher TNP-specific antibody 
responses than the other immunization routes tested and therefore this 
immunization route was used in both following experiments. In order to 
investigate the optimal dose of antigen needed for immunization, a dose-response 
curve in broiler- and layer-type chickens was completed. The humoral immune 
response was measured in serum by a TNP-specific ELISA and the in vitro cellular 
immune response by an antigen-specific lymphocyte proliferation assay. The 
antibody response of layer- and broiler-type chickens appeared to differ, not 
only in optimal dose and response, but also in kinetics of the response itself. 
Broiler chickens generated higher IgM anti-TNP titers whereas layer-type 
chickens generated higher IgG anti-TNP titers. This specific antibody response 
in broiler-type chickens did not last as long as in layer-type chickens. The 
TNP-specific cellular immune response was detectable in layer-type chickens, but 
not in broilers. Both types generate a non-specific cellular immune response, 
although this response in broilers is lower than in layer-type chickens. From 
these results, we conclude that broilers primarily respond to TNP-KLH with a 
high IgM antibody response whereas layer-type chickens respond with a high IgG 
response. In addition, the cellular response of layer-type chickens is much 
higher than the response of broilers. The results suggest that broilers are 
specialized in the production of a strong short-term humoral response and 
layer-type chickens in a long-term humoral response in combination with a strong 
cellular response, which is in conformity with their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-2427(02)00169-1
PMID: 12208050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Ageing Res Rev. 2002 Sep;1(4):673-91. doi: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00029-6.

Longevity, mortality and body weight.

Samaras TT(1), Storms LH, Elrick H.

Author information:
(1)Reventropy Associates, 11487 Madera Rosa Way, San Diego, CA 92124, USA. 
samarastt@aol.com

The purpose of this study was to analyze the relation of total body weight to 
longevity and mortality. The MEDLINE database was searched for data that allow 
analysis of the relationship between absolute body weight and longevity or 
mortality. Additional data were used involving US veterans and baseball players. 
Trend lines of age at death versus body weight are presented. Findings show 
absolute body size is negatively related to longevity and life expectancy and 
positively to mortality. Trend lines show an average age at death versus weight 
slope of -0.4 years/kg. We also found that gender differences in longevity may 
be due to differences in body size. Animal research is consistent with the 
findings presented. Biological mechanisms are also presented to explain why 
increased body mass may reduce longevity. Life expectancy has increased 
dramatically through improved public health measures and medical care and 
reduced malnutrition. However, overnourishment and increased body size have 
promoted an epidemic of chronic disease and reduced our potential longevity. In 
addition, both excess lean body mass and fat mass may promote chronic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00029-6
PMID: 12208237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Free Radic Biol Med. 2002 Sep 1;33(5):575-86. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00886-9.

Mechanisms of aging: an appraisal of the oxidative stress hypothesis.

Sohal RS(1), Mockett RJ, Orr WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA. sohal@usc.edu

The main purpose of this article is to provide a critical overview of the 
currently available evidence bearing on the validity of the oxidative stress 
hypothesis of aging, which postulates that senescence-associated attenuations in 
physiological functions are caused by molecular oxidative damage. Several lines 
of correlative evidence support the predictions of the hypothesis, e.g., 
macromolecular oxidative damage increases with age and tends to be associated 
with life expectancy of organisms. Nevertheless, a direct link between oxidative 
stress and aging has not as yet been established. Single gene mutations have 
been reported to extend the life spans of lower organisms, such as nematodes and 
insects; however, such prolongations of chronological clock time survival are 
usually associated with decreases in the rate of metabolism and reproductive 
output without affecting the metabolic potential, i.e., the total amount of 
energy consumed during life. Studies on genetic manipulations of the aging 
process have often been conducted on relatively short-lived strains that are 
physiologically weak, whereby life-span extensions can not be unambiguously 
assigned to a slowing effect on the rate of aging. It is concluded that although 
there is considerable evidence implicating oxidative stress in the aging 
process, additional evidence is needed to clearly define the nature of the 
involvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00886-9
PMID: 12208343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Free Radic Biol Med. 2002 Sep 1;33(5):587-96. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00965-6.

Metabolism and aging in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.

Van Voorhies WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Program, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM 
88003-8001, USA. wvanvoor@nmsu.edu

Research into the causes of aging has greatly increased in recent years. Much of 
this interest is due to the discovery of genes in a variety of model organisms 
that appear to modulate aging. Studies of long-lived mutants can potentially 
provide valuable insights into the fundamental mechanisms of aging. While there 
are many advantages to the use of model organisms to study aging it is also 
important to consider the limitations of these systems, particularly because 
ectothermic (poikilothermic) organisms can survive a far greater metabolic 
depression than humans. As such, the consideration of only chronological 
longevity when assaying for long-lived mutants provides a limited perspective on 
the mechanisms by which longevity is increased. Additional physiological 
processes, such as metabolic rate, must also be assayed to provide true insight 
into the aging process. This is especially true in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans, which has the natural ability to enter into a metabolically reduced 
state in which it can survive many times longer than its normal lifetime. The 
extended longevity of at least some long-lived C. elegans mutants may be due to 
a reduction in metabolic rate, rather than an alteration of a metabolically 
independent genetic mechanism specific for aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(02)00965-6
PMID: 12208344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Am J Med. 2002 Aug 15;113(3):229-32. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01156-7.

Adverse effects of medications and trade-offs between length of life and quality 
of life in human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Lenert LA(1), Feddersen M, Sturley A, Lee D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California, USA. llenert@ucsd.edu

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01156-7
PMID: 12208382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Ophthalmology. 2002 Sep;109(9):1709-16. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01125-9.

Role of intravitreal methotrexate in the management of primary central nervous 
system lymphoma with ocular involvement.

Smith JR(1), Rosenbaum JT, Wilson DJ, Doolittle ND, Siegal T, Neuwelt EA, Pe'er 
J.

Author information:
(1)Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon 
97201-4197, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravitreal methotrexate in the 
management of primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) involving the eye.
DESIGN: Retrospective noncomparative interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Sixteen human immunodeficiency virus-negative white patients (5 
males and 11 females, aged 30-76 years) with intraocular B cell lymphoma treated 
with intravitreal methotrexate at Oregon Health & Science University or Hadassah 
University Hospital between August 1995 and September 2000.
INTERVENTION: Patients were treated with intravitreal methotrexate (400 micro 
g/0.1 ml) according to a standard induction-consolidation-maintenance regimen 
and monitored by serial examinations, including measurement of visual acuity, 
slit-lamp biomicroscopy, and dilated funduscopy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical response to intravitreal chemotherapy, number of 
injections for clinical remission, visual acuity, complications during study 
period, length of survival from diagnosis, and cause of death.
RESULTS: Time of follow-up from commencement of the methotrexate injections was 
6 to 35 months (median, 18.5 months). Twenty-six of 26 eyes (100%) were cleared 
clinically of malignant cells after a maximum of 12 methotrexate injections. A 
second remission was induced in three patients, who were treated with a further 
course of intravitreal chemotherapy after their tumor recurred within the eye. 
Complications that occurred during the period of treatment and follow-up 
included cataract (73% of 26 eyes), corneal epitheliopathy (58% of 26 eyes), 
maculopathy (42% of 26 eyes), vitreous hemorrhage (8% of 26 eyes), optic atrophy 
(4% of 26 eyes), and sterile endophthalmitis (4% of 26 eyes). No patient had 
irreversible loss of vision that could be definitely attributed to the 
intravitreal injection of methotrexate.
CONCLUSIONS: Intravitreal chemotherapy with methotrexate is effective in 
inducing clinical remission of intraocular tumor in PCNSL with acceptable 
morbidity. Further study is indicated to determine whether this approach extends 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01125-9
PMID: 12208721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Neurobiol. 2002 Sep 15;52(4):267-79. doi: 10.1002/neu.10084.

Short window of opportunity for calpain induced growth cone formation after 
axotomy of Aplysia neurons.
