
Gitler D(1), Spira ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Life Science, The Hebrew University 
of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Our laboratory has established that local activation of calpain by a transient 
elevation of the free intracellular calcium concentration is crucial for the 
induction of growth cone (GC) formation in cultured Aplysia neurons. The 
mechanisms and stages in which calpain is involved in the formation of a GC are 
not known. We began to study these questions by determining the nature of 
calpain's action and the stages in which calpain activity affects the cascade of 
events that leads to the formation of the GC and its extension. We report that 
the calpain-dependent transformation of an axonal segment into a GC occurs 
within a narrow window of opportunity that lasts approximately 5 min. If calpain 
is inhibited during this window of opportunity, GC formation does not occur. 
Inhibition of calpain after the window of opportunity slows down the rate of 
lamellipodial extension but doesn't arrest it. The proteolysis of spectrin, a 
calpain substrate and a major component of the membrane skeleton, occurs within 
this window of opportunity, in agreement with the hypothesis that spectrin 
proteolysis is an early step in the formation of the GC. If the onset of 
proteolysis is deferred, spectrin remains unchanged and GC formation is 
compromised. We suggest that calpain participates in two different processes: it 
is critical for the triggering of GC formation and plays a modulatory role 
during the extension of the GC's lamellipodia.

Copyright 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Neurobiol 52: 267-279, 2002

DOI: 10.1002/neu.10084
PMID: 12210094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Cell Biochem. 2002;86(4):792-804. doi: 10.1002/jcb.10272.

A novel mechanism for the regulation of osteoblast differentiation: 
transcription of periostin, a member of the fasciclin I family, is regulated by 
the bHLH transcription factor, twist.

Oshima A(1), Tanabe H, Yan T, Lowe GN, Glackin CA, Kudo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama 226-8501, 
Japan.

Periostin is a secreted protein that is highly expressed in early osteoblastic 
cells in vitro and in periosteum and periodontal ligament tissues in vivo. It is 
known that periostin supports cellular adhesion and spreading in vitro. 
Although, the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation of periostin are poorly 
understood, gene-profiling data have revealed that overexpression of Twist, a 
basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor, resulted in increased 
periostin expression as validated by Northern blot and reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses. Twist is an important 
transcription factor for cell type determination and differentiation and has 
been shown to play an important regulatory role in early osteogenesis. In situ 
hybridization of mouse calvarial bones indicated that periostin and Twist mRNA 
are co-localized at the osteogenic fronts of calvarial bones. To characterize 
the 5' flanking region of the periostin gene, primer extension was carried out 
to identify the transcription start site, and DNA sequence analysis confirmed 
the presence of a 'Twist-box' response element. The results of electrophoretic 
mobility shift assay (EMSA) using nuclear extracts of MC3T3-E1 cells revealed 
that Twist bound to the Twist-box sequence on the periostin promoter. In vivo 
footprinting experiments using ligation-mediated PCR (LM-PCR) indicated that the 
Twist-box sequence was protected in undifferentiated MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts but 
not in differentiated MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts. To determine whether Twist actually 
regulates the periostin expression, 293T cells were transiently co-transfected 
with the periostin promoter construct and the human Twist expression vector. 
Reporter analysis indicated that the periostin promoter activities were enhanced 
by overexpression of Twist. These data suggest that Twist can bind to the 
periostin promoter in undifferentiated preosteoblasts and up-regulate periostin 
expression, consistent with the up-regulation of periostin expression by Twist 
as observed in the gene-profiling data.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.10272
PMID: 12210745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2002 Jul;49(7):620-30.

[A 7-year follow-up study of cases with dementia to identify predictors of 
mortality].

[Article in Japanese]

Motonaga T(1), Asada T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Letters, Teikyo University.

OBJECTIVES: To identify factors associated with mortality in cases with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD), we conducted a seven-year 
follow-up study.
METHODS: Subjects were recruited through three agents in Yamanashi prefecture. A 
total of 145 patients (56 men, 89 women, age at baseline 77 +/- 7.9, 80 +/- 8.5 
years respectively) with AD and VD participated in the follow-up study. We 
analyzed the relationship between demographic or clinical variables and their 
survival using a Cox regression model.
RESULTS: The analysis revealed that increased age, male gender, the degree of 
global function and past history of a fall/fracture were associated with a 
decreased survival rate. The rate was worse for patients with VD than for those 
with AD. After adjusting for age and gender, the mortality risk ratio was 1.7 
(95% confidence interval 1.1-2.6) for the presence of a fall/fracture. The same 
analysis confined to 64 subjects for whom ApoE genotyping data were available 
replicated the results; a fall/fracture was a predictor of a worse survival 
rate. In addition, those with ApoE4 tended to have better survival rate than 
those without (P < 0.1).
CONCLUSION: Those who are engaged in care for AD patients should appreciate the 
importance of a fall/fracture as a predictor of survival.

PMID: 12212308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2002 May 15;114(8-9):327-33.

Duplex sonographic predictors of restenosis, vascular and neurological events 
after carotid endarterectomy.

Hirschl M(1), Palkovits J, Katzenschlager R, Bialek C, Kundi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Angiology, Hanusch Hospital, Vienna, Austria. 
mirko.hirschl@wgkk.sozvers.at

BACKGROUND: Although excellent short- and long-term results have been achieved 
with surgery in extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis, recurrent 
stenosis continues to play an important role in post-endarterectomy. Therefore, 
a close follow-up of patients is warranted. The value of postoperative duplex 
sonographic evaluations in postoperative follow-up is highly disputed. The study 
evaluates duplex sonographic parameters as predictors of carotid restenosis, 
general vascular events and ipsilateral neurological symptoms, in order to 
assess the role of duplex sonography in follow-up after carotid endarterectomy.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study with a follow-up period ranging from 7 
months to 7.5 years was performed in 150 patients who underwent carotid 
endarterectomy. Pre- and postoperative duplex sonographic and clinical data were 
analyzed by life-table analysis and multivariate Cox regression with respect to 
carotid restenosis, vascular and ipsilateral neurological events.
MAIN FINDINGS: Duplex sonographic predictors of carotid restenosis include the 
postoperative degree of stenosis (residual stenosis > or = 30% or more: relative 
risk (RR) = 1.56; 1.05-2.32), pre- to postoperative reduction of stenosis 
(higher than 50%: RR = 0.61; 0.45-0.83), and residual plaques in the operated 
carotid artery (RR = 1.96; 1.31-2.93). Some of these morphological parameters 
such as reduction of stenosis are also predictive of vascular events (RR = 1.25; 
1.01-1.56) and ipsilateral neurological events (RR = 1.52; 1.05-2.19). In 12 
cases restenosis was discovered by duplex sonography and in 3 cases by 
evaluation of clinical symptoms. In 5 cases restenosis was treated by repeat 
surgery. Contralaterally, progressive or newly developed carotid stenoses were 
observed in 17 cases, and only 5 were discovered on the basis of clinical 
symptoms. Fourteen contralateral stenoses required surgery. Overall, 12 patients 
underwent treatment for stroke prevention on the basis of duplex follow-up 
findings (8% of the study population).
CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative duplex sonography allows for the identification of 
patients at risk for carotid restenosis as well as those at risk for other 
vascular events. As expected, regular examinations permit early detection of 
restenosis requiring surgical treatment. However, a large number of 
contralateral stenoses requiring surgical treatment were detected by routine 
duplex sonographic examinations. The timing of follow-up intervals may be 
oriented towards the perioperative outcome of duplex sonography.

PMID: 12212368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Ugeskr Laeger. 2002 Aug 19;164(34):3953-8.

[Health life years lost due to smoking].

[Article in Danish]

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K.

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, Svanemøllevej 25, DK-2100 København ø. 
hbh@niph.dk

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to estimate health expectancy--that is, the 
average lifetime in good health--in never smokers, ex-smokers, and smokers in 
Denmark.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A method suggested by Peto and colleagues in 1992 for 
estimating smoking-attributable mortality rates was used to construct a life 
table for never smokers. This table and the relative risks of death for 
ex-smokers and smokers versus never smokers were used to estimate life tables 
for ex-smokers and smokers. Life tables and prevalence rates of health status 
were combined and health expectancy was calculated by Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: The expected lifetime of a 20 year-old man who will never begin to 
smoke is 56.7 years, 48.7 of which are expected to be in self-rated good health. 
The corresponding figures for a man who smokes heavily are 49.5 years, 36.5 of 
which are in self-rated good health. A 20 year-old woman who will never begin to 
smoke can expect to live a further 60.9 years, with 46.4 years in self-rated 
good health; if she is a life-long heavy smoker, her expected lifetime is 
reduced to 53.8 years, 33.8 of which are in self-rated good health. Health 
expectancy based on long-standing illness is reduced for smokers when compared 
with never smokers.
DISCUSSION: Smoking reduces the expected lifetime in good health and increases 
the expected lifetime in poor health.

PMID: 12212476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 2002;(547):6-10. doi: 10.1080/000164802760057482.

Head and neck malignancy statistics at Kitasato University.

Okamoto M(1), Takahashi H, Yao K, Nakayama M, Nagai H, Yoneda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, School of Medicine, Kitasato University, 
Kanagawa, Japan. okamotom@med.kitasato-u.ac.jp

We analyzed and reported on those patients with head and neck (H&N) malignancies 
who had visited our university within the last 30 years. The number of H&N 
patients registered per year has gradually increased with time and approximately 
120 new patients have been registered annually in recent years. Age-adjusted 
morbidity has also increased gradually, from 7.06 to 10.55 per 100,000 citizens, 
in recent years. The population of Sagamihara city has gradually increased in 
parallel over the same period. Cancers of the pharynx, larynx and oral cavity 
are the three major H&N tumors. Squamous cell carcinoma was the most commonly 
seen pathological diagnosis, followed by malignant lymphoma. The 5-year crude 
survival rate for all patients was 50%. It is suggested that improving the 
survival rates of cancers of the oral cavity, nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses 
should be a prerequisite, in order to diminish H&N tumor deaths in Japan. A 
satisfactory survival rate for cancer of the paranasal sinuses has been achieved 
at Kitasato University and it is hoped that our modality will further prevail in 
the near future. Cancer of the oral cavity is visible and can be detected by a 
simple clinical examination. As H&N surgeons it is necessary to educate all 
physicians as to the importance of early detection of H&N tumors. We also need 
to encourage the public to reduce smoking and drinking in order to prevent a 
further increase in the number of H&N patients. Our assertions are based on the 
fact that the number of H&N patients in 2050 is estimated to be three times 
greater than that at present due to the increase in the population of elderly 
people (assuming the morbidity rate remains constant). Key words: alcohol, 
cancer trends, morbidity, predictions, tobacco.

DOI: 10.1080/000164802760057482
PMID: 12212597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Mol Neurosci. 2002 Aug-Oct;19(1-2):233-8. doi: 10.1007/s12031-002-0039-x.

The genetics of exceptional human longevity.

Perls T(1), Kunkel LM, Puca AA.

Author information:
(1)thperls@bu.edu

Erratum in
    J Mol Neurosci. 2002 Aug;12(4):488.

How we age as individuals is no doubt a complex interaction of genetic and 
environmental factors. Studies of certain populations with optimal environments 
and health-related behaviors, as well as twin studies, suggest that the average 
set of genetic variations should facilitate the average person's ability to live 
to around age 85. Average life expectancies are lower than this because we 
generally fight survival advantage with bad health habits that can lead to 
premature aging, chronic illness, and death at a significantly younger age. 
Centenarians on the other hand live 15-25 years beyond what the average 
collection of us are able to achieve. Many of them have a history of aging 
relatively slowly, and either markedly delaying or even escaping lethal diseases 
associated with aging (Alzheimer's disease, stroke, cancer, cardiovascular 
disease, and diabetes). In order to live to such old age, centenarians are less 
likely to have genetic and environmental exposures that would cause at least 
lethal diseases at younger ages. Demographic selection is the drop out within a 
cohort, of genotypes linked to age-related lethal diseases and premature 
mortality as the cohort achieves older and older age. The result is a very old 
cohort that lacks these genotypes relative to younger age groups. Recent 
pedigree and molecular genetic studies indicate that scientists can use this 
selection to their advantage in discerning genotypes that play important roles 
in delaying or escaping diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, and in slowing the 
aging process.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-002-0039-x
PMID: 12212788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2002 Sep;41(5):21-6.

Review of growth plate closure compared with age at sexual maturity and lifespan 
in laboratory animals.

Kilborn SH(1), Trudel G, Uhthoff H.

Author information:
(1)Animal Care and Veterinary Service, Department of Medicine, University of 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1H 8M5.

Although it is assumed that most mammals experience growth plate closure and 
cessation of bone growth soon after sexual maturity, bone growth in rats 
continues throughout their lifespan. The rat was compared to other laboratory 
animals to assess differences in the duration of bone growth and its 
relationship to age at sexual maturity and lifespan. We reviewed the literature 
from 1966 to March 1999 by searching MEDLINE and other databases. Growth closure 
times and age at sexual maturity were retrieved for the mouse, rabbit, dog, cat, 
sheep, cow, horse, nonhuman primates, and human. For all species, we calculated 
the ratios of: 1) age at growth plate closure to lifespan, 2) age at growth 
plate closure to age at sexual maturity, and 3) age at sexual maturity to 
average lifespan. The ratio of age at physis closure to the average lifespan was 
large for the rat (22 to 35) and showed some overlap with that of humans (17 to 
25); this ratio was comparatively small in all other nonhuman species (range, 4 
to 17). This finding indicates that bone growth continues in the rat for a 
greater proportion of their lifespan than does that in other species. The ratio 
of age at physis closure to age at sexual maturity was larger for the rat (5 to 
6) than that for other species, indicating that bone growth continues much 
longer after sexual maturity in rats than in other animals. The ratio of age at 
sexual maturity to average lifespan was largest for humans and nonhuman primates 
(13 to 14), indicating the increased time to reach puberty versus that in other 
species. These differences are important for studies in which animal models are 
used in research involving bone growth.

PMID: 12213043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Aug-Sep;37(8-9):1023-30. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00064-5.

Distinct roles of processes modulated by histone deacetylases Rpd3p, Hda1p, and 
Sir2p in life extension by caloric restriction in yeast.

Jiang JC(1), Wawryn J, Shantha Kumara HM, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, Box P7-2, 1901 Perdido Street, New Orleans, LA 70112, 
USA.

Caloric restriction has been demonstrated to extend life span and postpone aging 
in a variety of species. The recent extension of the caloric restriction 
paradigm to yeast places the emphasis of the search for the longevity effectors 
at the cellular level. To narrow the range of potential effectors of the caloric 
restriction response, we have examined the effects of the histone deacetylases 
Rpd3p, Hda1p, and Sir2p, which have distinguishable but partially overlapping 
influences on global patterns of gene expression, on the life extension afforded 
by caloric restriction. Deletion of the RPD3 gene extended life span, and there 
was no additive effect of caloric restriction. Deletion of HDA1 had no effect of 
its own on longevity but acted synergistically with caloric restriction to 
increase life span. SIR2 deletion shortened life span but did not prevent 
extension of life span by caloric restriction. The results suggest that Rpd3p 
affects both processes that play an obligate and those that play a synergistic 
role in life extension by caloric restriction, while Hda1p and Sir2p affect 
processes that are not the obligate longevity effectors of caloric restriction 
but instead synergize with them, although in opposite directions. From the known 
patterns of gene expression elicited by rpd3delta, hda1delta, and sir2delta, we 
propose that the major longevity effectors of caloric restriction in yeast 
involve carbohydrate/energy metabolism and mitochondrial function.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00064-5
PMID: 12213553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Heart. 2002 Oct;88 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):ii2-4. doi:
10.1136/heart.88.suppl_2.ii2.

Best practice: evidence from the clinical trials.

Cowie MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Medicine, National Heart & Lung Institute, Faculty of Medicine, 
Imperial College, Dovehouse Street, London SW3 6LY, UK. m.cowie@ic.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/heart.88.suppl_2.ii2
PMCID: PMC1876268
PMID: 12213791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Pathophysiol Haemost Thromb. 2002;32 Suppl 1:29-32. doi: 10.1159/000057298.

Economic impact of treating inhibitor patients.

Lacey L(1).

Author information:
(1)Lacey Solutions Ltd, Dublin, Ireland. loretto@laceysolutions.com

A literature review of the economics of managing haemophilia patients with 
inhibitors was conducted. It showed that haemophilia with inhibitors places a 
burden on the healthcare system and on the patient. Use of rFVIIa compared to 
'usual therapy' is associated with improvements on a number of outcomes, 
including speed of bleed resolution, duration of pain, and quality of life. The 
extra costs of rFVIIa can be justified by the additional benefits achieved: For 
example, the extra costs required to achieve a gain of one quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) in children with inhibitors has been shown to be comparable with 
that for other reimbursed healthcare strategies. Future research could focus on 
expanding our understanding of the impact of accelerated bleed resolution on 
long-term sequelae, including need for surgery and quality of life.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000057298
PMID: 12214144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Semin Hematol. 2002 Jul;39(3 Suppl 2):11-7. doi: 10.1053/shem.2002.35979.

Chronic myeloid leukemia: current therapies and the potential role of 
farnesyltransferase inhibitors.

Keating A(1).

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is evolving 
rapidly. With conventional chemotherapy the clinical course is characterized by 
a chronic phase (median duration, 4 to 5 years), followed by an accelerated 
phase with transition to a terminal blast crisis. Treatment with busulfan or 
hydroxyurea does not alter the natural history. Interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) 
prolongs life expectancy by approximately 20 months but is associated with 
significant toxicity. Evidence indicates that bone marrow transplantation from a 
related human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-identical donor can be curative in younger 
patients. However, transplantation is available to only a minority of patients 
and entails severe toxicity and transplant-related mortality. Dramatic advances 
in the understanding of the molecular pathophysiology of CML have led to a new 
era of targeted therapy. The specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib 
mesylate demonstrates a high level of efficacy in CML with acceptable toxicity. 
Farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) are another important class of targeted 
agents with the potential to act at multiple sites within dysregulated signal 
transduction networks. ZARNESTRA (formerly R115777, Ortho Biotech Oncology, 
Raritan, NJ), an oral FTI, has shown activity and is well tolerated in both 
chronic- and accelerated-phase patients. With their mechanistic specificity, the 
new modalities offer the promise of increased antileukemic activity and an 
improved therapeutic index.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/shem.2002.35979
PMID: 12214288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2002 Aug;29(8):1447-50.

[A new combination therapy with low-dose FP and daily oral administration of 
low-dose etoposide--a report of 2 cases].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato T(1), Yasuda I, Naito T, Araki H, Miwa Y, Uematsu T, Nagaki M, Moriwaki H.

Author information:
(1)First Dept. of Internal Medicine, Gifu University School of Medicine.

We report 2 patients with advanced gastric cancer treated with a new combination 
chemotherapy of low-dose FP and daily oral administration of low-dose etoposide. 
Patient 1 was an 84-year-old man. He was diagnosed with cancer of the remnant 
stomach with multiple liver metastases. For eight months, he was treated as an 
outpatient and his performance status (PS) stayed at stage 1. Patient 2 was a 
67-year-old man with lymph node metastasis of the lung. For the first 6 weeks, 
he was treated under hospitalization and for the following 10 months he was 
treated as an outpatient. His PS remained in stage 1 and blood CEA value fell 
from 2,420 ng/ml to 46.9 ng/ml. Upper gastrointestinal series showed a recovery 
of the extension of his lower gastric body. Both cases were so-called prolonged 
NC. From the viewpoint of patient QOL, this new combination is a possible 
candidate for a more effective chemotherapy.

PMID: 12214475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Md Med. 2002 Summer;3(3):50-4.

Cost and effectiveness: approval and payment for Pulverizer.

Riegelman R(1).

Author information:
(1)George Washington University School of Public Health and Health Services, 
USA.

PMID: 12214498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Int J Hematol. 2002 Aug;76(2):133-45. doi: 10.1007/BF02982575.

Clinical and pathological criteria for the diagnosis of essential 
thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera, and idiopathic myelofibrosis (agnogenic 
myeloid metaplasia).

Michiels JJ(1), Thiele J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Antwerp, University of Antwerp, 
Belgium.

A set of clinical and pathological criteria for the diagnosis and staging of 
Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative disorders (Ph(1-)-MPDs) is 
presented by including bone marrow histopathology as a significant tool to 
identify the early, manifest, and advanced stages of essential thrombocythemia 
(ET), polycythemia vera (PV), and idiopathic myelofibrosis/agnogenic myeloid 
metaplasia (IMF/AMM). This combined approach provides a pathognomonic clue to 
each of the different subtypes of Ph(1-)-MPDs and further enables recognition of 
the various steps in the evolution of the myeloproliferative process Increase 
and clustering of giant to large megakaryocytes with mature cytoplasm and 
multilobulated staghorn-like nuclei in a normal or only slightly increased 
cellular bone marrow represent major hallmarks of ET. Loose assemblies of small 
to giant pleiomorphic megakaryocytes containing deeply lobulated nuclei together 
with a proliferation of erythro- and granulopoiesis (panmyelosis) are the 
specific lesions of PV. The initial prefibrotic and the overt and more advanced 
myelofibrotic stages of IMF/AMM show a pronounced proliferation of an abnormal 
megakaryo- and granulopoiesis dominated by clustered atypical medium-sized to 
giant megakaryocytes with cloud-like, bulbous, and often hyperchromatic nuclei, 
which are not seen in allied subtypes of MPDs including chronic myeloid leukemia 
(Ph(1+)-CML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The presented clinical and 
pathological criteria modify the Polycythemia Vera Study Group (PVSG) proposals 
for the Ph(1-)-MPDs by including bone marrow histopathology and are in keeping 
with features outlined in the new World Health Organization classification. The 
latter allows the differentiation of true ET from reactive thrombocytosis and 
from thrombocythemias as an eventually presenting finding in PV, IMF/AMM, MDS, 
and Ph(1+)-CML. Moreover, these diagnostic guidelines are able to separate 
latent and early PV from secondary erythrocytosis and to detect the prefibrotic 
and early stages of IMF/AMM. Myelofibrosis is not a feature of ET and is rarely 
observed in PV at time of diagnosis, but it becomes apparent during long-term 
follow-up and constitutes a prominent lesion during the course of IMF/ AMM. Life 
expectancy is almost normal in ET and is also not significantly altered during 
the first, but compromised during the second, decade of follow-up in PV. On the 
other hand, survival is substantially shortened in IMF/AMM, even for patients 
with thrombocythemia as a frequent finding of prefibrotic and early stage 
IMF/AMM.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982575
PMID: 12215011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Can J Cardiol. 2002 Aug;18(8):893-4, 896-7.

Reflection from the seashore II.

[Article in English, French]

Smith ER.

PMID: 12215753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. J Aging Soc Policy. 2001;13(2-3):137-53. doi: 10.1300/j031v13n02_10.

Long-term care policy for elders in Hong Kong.

Chi I(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre on Aging, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. irischi@hku.hk

The context in which aged care policy is being developed in Hong Kong is 
characterized not only by rapid demographic aging and social change, but also by 
new political and administrative systems being built on a colonial legacy. This 
article begins with a description of the demographic profile and trends in 
population aging, noting particular differences in marriage and family formation 
that differentiate Hong Kong from other developed countries and that also show 
marked changes between generations. While past social policies can be credited 
with contributing to the achievement of high life expectancy in Hong Kong, these 
policies were unevenly developed, with little provision for income security in 
old age or for long-term care. Both issues have come to the fore in policy 
development in recent years, culminating in the formation of the Elderly 
Commission in 1997 and revitalizing the level of attention given to developing 
community care. A clear policy agenda has been drawn up to promote the 
development of a long-term care system, addressing issues of integration; role 
differentiation for assessment and service provision, including new contractual 
arrangements; quality assurance; and financing. The political and administrative 
changes are seen to present opportunities for containing residential care and 
forging a care system founded on community services.

DOI: 10.1300/j031v13n02_10
PMID: 12216352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Salud Publica Mex. 2002 Jul-Aug;44(4):349-61.

[Evaluation of the quality of life].

[Article in Spanish]

Velarde-Jurado E(1), Avila-Figueroa C.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, México, D.F., México.

This paper reviews the methods and principles for quality of life assessment. 
The aging of the population and the improved survival of people with acute and 
chronic conditions have produced several levels of disability requiring 
long-term treatment and rehabilitation. In 1948 the World Health Organization 
defined health as not merely the absence of disease but rather a state of 
complete physical, mental, and social well being. This term evolved from its 
conceptual definition to the development of scales to measure the quality of 
life beyond physical status. Thus, quality of life assessment includes areas 
such as mental health, social support, and life satisfaction. It is recognized 
that the expectations, vitality, pain, disability, and personal experiences 
influence the perception of a person's general health. A composite measurement 
aimed to quantify health according to physical, mental, and social well being 
simultaneously would likely find people at different points on the three 
different continua, but in the midranges of the composite. The 
multidimensionality problems and the level of subjectivity involved in the 
assessment of the quality of life require valid and reliable instruments. This 
paper present an inventory of 126 questionnaires aimed to measure the quality of 
life for several diseases and populations. A better understanding of the methods 
to assess the quality of life will allow the incorporation of these instruments 
in the comprehensive assessment of patients, into clinical trials, and for 
health services research. The English version of this paper is available at: 
http://www.insp.mx/salud/index.html.

PMID: 12216523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Salud Publica Mex. 2002 Jul-Aug;44(4):371-80.

[Indicators for evaluating health systems].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12216525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Oper Dent. 2002 Sep-Oct;27(5):438-41.

Clinical evaluation of a resin-modified glass ionomer adhesive system: results 
at five years.

Tyas MJ(1), Burrow MF.

Author information:
(1)School of Dental Science, The University of Melbourne, Australia. 
m.tyas@unimelb.edu.au

One hundred non-carious, non-undercut cervical lesions were restored with Silux 
Plus or Estio LC and bonded with Fuji Bond LC. The restorations were evaluated 
yearly for retention and marginal discoloration. After five years, the overall 
retention rate was 96%. Of the 41 restorations examined at five years, five had 
clinically evident marginal discoloration.

PMID: 12216560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Econ Entomol. 2002 Aug;95(4):729-32. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-95.4.729.

Fecundity in twospotted spider mite (Acari: Tetranychidae) is increased by 
direct and systemic exposure to imidacloprid.

James DG(1), Price TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Washington State University, Irrigated Agriculture 
Research and Extension Center, Prosser 99350, USA. djames@tricky.wsu.edu

The effect of imidacloprid on fecundity in twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus 
urticae Koch, was investigated in laboratory experiments using individual 
females on bean leaf discs. Mites were directly exposed to spray formulations of 
imidacloprid or fed on discs cut from a systemically treated bean plant. 
Imidacloprid-treated T. urticae produced 10-26% more eggs during the first 12 d 
of adult life and 19-23% more during adulthood compared with a water-only 
treatment. Increased egg production occurred immediately after exposure and 
lasted for about 15 d in sprayed mites. In mites exposed to imidacloprid by 
ingestion, increased egg production was not apparent until after 6 d and lasted 
until about day 18. Longevity was significantly greater in mites that ingested 
imidacloprid but not in sprayed mites. The significance and importance of 
imidacloprid-stimulation of fecundity in T. urticae to pest management in crop 
systems like hops, which routinely use this insecticide, is discussed.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-95.4.729
PMID: 12216813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2002 Sep;34(9):1414-8. doi: 
10.1097/00005768-200209000-00003.

Possible mechanism of quadriceps femoris weakness in patients with ruptured 
anterior cruciate ligament.

Konishi Y(1), Fukubayashi T, Takeshita D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Science, University 
of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Tokyo, Japan 153-8902. yu_57@yahoo.co.jp

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that loss of 
afferent feedback due to rupture of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is the 
cause of quadriceps femoris (QF) weakness through gamma loop. Two experiments 
were designed to prove our hypothesis.
METHODS: In experiment 1, the maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) of knee 
extension and integrated electromyogram (I-EMG) of vastus medialis (VM), vastus 
lateralis (VL), and rectus femoris (RF) were measured in 13 patients with 
ruptured ACL and 7 healthy volunteers before and after injection of anesthetic 
agent into the knee. In experiment 2, MVC of knee extension and I-EMG of the VM, 
VL, and RF were measured in 13 patients with ruptured ACL, 7 knee-anesthetized 
healthy subjects, and 12 normal subjects, before and after 20-min vibration 
stimulation applied to the infrapatellar tendon.
RESULTS: The results of experiment 1 revealed that injection of anesthetic agent 
into the knee capsule resulted in significant decrease of MVC and I-EMGs. In 
experiment 2, the mean percentage change of MVC in the control group was 
significantly lower than that in the other two groups. There was no significant 
difference between knee-anesthetized group and patients with ruptured ACL. The 
mean percentage change of I-EMG showed a pattern similar to that of MVC.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that loss of feedback from mechanoreceptors in 
ACL is the underlying mechanism of weakness of QF in patients with ACL lesion. 
This conclusion is based on chronic suppression of recruitment of high-threshold 
motor units during voluntary contraction because ACL lesion leads to chronic 
reduction in Ia-feedback to muscles around the knee due to a lack of feedback 
from ACL to gamma motor neurons.

DOI: 10.1097/00005768-200209000-00003
PMID: 12218732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Surgery. 2002 Aug;132(2):399-407. doi: 10.1067/msy.2002.126510.

The cost-effectiveness of a "quick-screen" program for abdominal aortic 
aneurysms.

Lee TY(1), Korn P, Heller JA, Kilaru S, Beavers FP, Bush HL, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery (Division of Vascular Surgery), Weill Medical College 
of Cornell University, New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York 10021, USA.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is increasing, and 
the prognosis of ruptured AAA remains dismal. Early diagnosis and intervention 
are crucial. We designed this study to determine whether selected population 
screening with a brief "quick-screen" ultrasound could be cost-effective.
METHODS: A series of 25 patients with risk factors for AAA were evaluated in a 
blinded fashion by a quick-screen ultrasound and a full conventional study. 
Times and accuracy for the 2 approaches were compared. An analysis of the 
cost-effectiveness of screening for AAA was then performed using a Markov model. 
We determined the long-term survival in quality-adjusted life years and lifetime 
costs for a hypothetical cohort of 70-year-old males undergoing either AAA 
screening or not. Our measure of outcome was the cost-effectiveness ratio (CER).
RESULTS: The average time for a quick screen was one-sixth that of a 
conventional study (4 vs 24 minutes). The accuracy of the quick screen was 100%. 
In our base-case analysis, screening for AAA was cost-effective with a CER of 
$11,215. Society usually is willing to pay for interventions with CER of less 
than $60,000 (eg, CER for coronary artery bypass grafting, $9500; breast cancer 
screening, $16,000). In sensitivity analysis, reducing the cost of screening 
from $259 (approximate Medicare reimbursement) to $40 (the quick screen) 
improved the CER to $6850. Moreover, screening populations with increased 
prevalence of AAA (eg, male with family history [18%]) further improved the CER.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis demonstrates that ultrasound screening for AAA should 
be offered to all males above the age of 60. Widespread screening for AAA should 
be adopted and reimbursed by Medicare and other insurers.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2002.126510
PMID: 12219041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Pediatr. 2002 Sep;141(3):327-34. doi: 10.1067/mpd.2002.126301.

Incidence of cardiac abnormalities in children with human immunodeficiency virus 
infection: The prospective P2C2 HIV study.

Starc TJ(1), Lipshultz SE, Easley KA, Kaplan S, Bricker JT, Colan SD, Lai WW, 
Gersony WM, Sopko G, Moodie DS, Schluchter MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Presbyterian 
Hospital/Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York City, 
New York, USA.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2002 Sep;141(3):301-2.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the 5-year cumulative incidence of cardiac dysfunction in 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected children.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a prospective cohort design, enrolling children at 10 
hospitals. Group I included 205 vertically HIV-infected children enrolled at a 
median age of 1.9 years. Group II consisted of 600 HIV-exposed children enrolled 
prenatally or as neonates, of whom 93 were ultimately HIV-infected. The main 
outcome measures were echocardiographic indexes of left ventricular dysfunction.
RESULTS: In group I, the 5-year cumulative incidence of left ventricular 
fractional shortening </=25% was 28.0%. The 5-year incidence of left ventricular 
end-diastolic dilatation was 21.7%, and heart failure and/or the use of cardiac 
medications 28.8%. The mortality rate 1 year after the diagnosis of heart 
failure was 52.5% [95% CI, 30.5-74.5]. Within group II, the 5-year cumulative 
incidence of decreased fractional shortening was 10.7% in the HIV-infected 
compared with 3.1% in the HIV-uninfected children (P =.01). Left ventricular 
dilation, heart failure, and/or the use of cardiac medications were more common 
in infected compared with uninfected children.
CONCLUSIONS: During 5 years of follow-up, cardiac dysfunction occurred in 18% to 
39% of HIV-infected children and was associated with an increased risk of death. 
We recommend that HIV-infected children undergo routine echocardiographic 
surveillance for cardiac abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1067/mpd.2002.126301
PMCID: PMC4331106
PMID: 12219051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(8):644-52.

Cross-national comparability of burden of disease estimates: the European 
Disability Weights Project.

Essink-Bot ML(1), Pereira J, Packer C, Schwarzinger M, Burstrom K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. essink@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the sources of cross-national variation in 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) in the European Disability Weights 
Project.
METHODS: Disability weights for 15 disease stages were derived empirically in 
five countries by means of a standardized procedure and the cross-national 
differences in visual analogue scale (VAS) scores were analysed. For each 
country the burden of dementia in women, used as an illustrative example, was 
estimated in DALYs. An analysis was performed of the relative effects of 
cross-national variations in demography, epidemiology and disability weights on 
DALY estimates.
FINDINGS: Cross-national comparison of VAS scores showed almost identical 
ranking orders. After standardization for population size and age structure of 
the populations, the DALY rates per 100000 women ranged from 1050 in France to 
1404 in the Netherlands. Because of uncertainties in the epidemiological data, 
the extent to which these differences reflected true variation between countries 
was difficult to estimate. The use of European rather than country-specific 
disability weights did not lead to a significant change in the burden of disease 
estimates for dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: Sound epidemiological data are the first requirement for burden of 
disease estimation and relevant between-countries comparisons. DALY estimates 
for dementia were relatively insensitive to differences in disability weights 
between European countries.

PMCID: PMC2567594
PMID: 12219156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Liver. 2002;22 Suppl 2:26-9. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0676.2002.00004.x.

Economic evaluation of MARS--preliminary results on survival and quality of 
life.

Hessel FP(1), Mitzner SR, Rief J, Gress S, Guellstorff B, Wasem J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management, University of Greifswald, Germany. 
hessel@uni-greifswald.de

OBJECTIVES: The short-term medical benefit of the liver dialysis system MARS in 
patients with severe acute liver disease has clearly been demonstrated. An 
economic analysis of MARS has not been presented previously. Objective of the 
study is to calculate the costs per life saved and life year gained and to 
measure health related quality of life in patients who survived acute liver 
failure. First results on survival and HRQL are presented here.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost effectiveness and cost utility analysis of MARS are 
performed. All patients since 1993 with chronic liver failure (Bilirubin > 300 
micro mol/l) of the university hospital Rostock are included in the original 
sample (n = 141). Survival data are calculated. Surviving patients were 
contacted personally, thus quality of life data (EQ 5D and SF12) determined. 
Patients were compared in case control study design. In a later stage inpatient 
hospital costs, direct and indirect outpatients costs are included in the 
analysis.
PRELIMINARY RESULTS: MARS-Patients show a higher survival: Kaplan-Meier 
cumulative survival after 100 days: 0.59 after MARS, 0.39 without (P <0.05). 
There was no significant difference in health related quality of life (SF12 and 
EQ-D). Calculations of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) result in 0.116 QALYs 
gained by treatment of one patient with MARS in one year.
DISCUSSION: First preliminary results suggest that 1 year after therapy MARS 
seems to have a positive effect concerning survival rate, survival time and 
QALYs gained. Final results of cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis will 
soon be presented.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0676.2002.00004.x
PMID: 12220299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Gen Intern Med. 2002 Sep;17(9):677-83. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.00746.x.

HIV-seropositive individuals' optimistic beliefs about prognosis and relation to 
medication and safe sex adherence.

Holmes WC(1), Pace JL.

Author information:
(1)Philadelphia Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Department of Medicine, 
Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, 19104-6021, USA. holmeswc@mail.med.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to characterize respondents' prognostic 
perceptions of HIV infection and to explore how perceptions might affect 
medication and safe sex nonadherence.
METHODS: Surveys were mailed to 295 clients of an HIV-specific case management 
organization. Participants were asked to describe experience with HIV/AIDS right 
after serostatus knowledge and currently, using provided word lists, after which 
they were asked to assess current life expectancy. Self-reported information on 
antiretroviral medication and safe sex nonadherence was obtained.
RESULTS: A total of 220 (75%) clients (66% nonwhite, 73% male, 63% gay/bisexual, 
50% educated >12 years, and 53% with incomes <$10,000/year) returned surveys. 
Negative descriptors from word lists were significantly less common and positive 
descriptors significantly more common now compared to right after serostatus 
knowledge. Current perceptions about life expectancy indicated that most 
respondents thought they would live many years, many believing they would live 
well into old age. Whites (odds ratio [OR], 0.34; P =.01) were less likely and 
those with >12 years education (OR, 2.76; P =.02) and with CD4 cell counts >200 
(OR, 2.70; P =.01) were more likely to have optimistic prognostic beliefs. The 
optimistic subgroup, when compared with the pessimistic subgroup, was more 
likely to report medication (26% vs 13%, P =.04) and safe sex (57% vs 29%, P 
=.004) nonadherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Seropositive individuals, including persons of color (adjusted) as 
well as women and drug users (unadjusted), self-reported optimistic beliefs 
about their prognosis. Those with more optimism about their prognosis were 
significantly more likely to report medication and safe sex nonadherence. A 
better understanding of seropositive patients' prognostic beliefs and the 
factors determining them is warranted.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2002.00746.x
PMCID: PMC1495106
PMID: 12220363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Health Serv J. 2002 Jul 25;112(5815):40.

Data briefing. Money for health.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Systems Programme, King's Fund.

PMID: 12221752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Stat News Pol. 1998 Spring;(119):23-32.

To be or not to be--what are the odds?

Craig J.

PIP: Some aspects of life expectancies in England are analyzed, with the focus 
on quantifying the variations in length of life by looking at an individual's 
chances of an early death or of having an exceptionally long life. The author 
examines how these differences in individual length of life are related to 
underlying patterns of mortality.

PMID: 12222172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Entre Nous Cph Den. 1989 Mar;(13):8-9.

Population and policy in Finland.

Hulkko J.

PIP: Finland, with a population of 4.9 million, currently has an overall 
fertility rate of 1.6. There is a small population growth, but this is due to a 
large reproductive age group, return migration of Finns from Sweden, and a 
decrease in mortality that has increased the proportion of old people in the 
population. The state has no official population policy. A recommendation of the 
Finnish Committee on the World Population Year 1974 that the government 
establish an agency for population policy has not been adopted. The coalition 
government now in power has a program, however, aimed at influencing population 
growth. The program includes proposals to reduce work hours for parents with 
small children, increase the age limit for participation in the child allowance 
system, and increase the number of municipal day care facilities. Concerning 
regional policy, the government wants a balanced development of the country's 
different regions. Subsidiary industries of agriculture and forestry are being 
encouraged to preserve population levels in sparse areas. Finland also supports 
a health policy emphasizing preventive and non-institutional aspects of health 
care, with targets of life expectancy set at 82 years for women and 75 years for 
men by the year 2000.

PMID: 12222205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Entre Nous Cph Den. 1992 May;(20):10-1.

Time to end bias against the pill.

Potts M.

PIP: The low dose oral contraceptive (OC) is the only drug which extends life 
and prevents ovarian and uterine cancer. The longer a woman uses it the greater 
the protective effect against these cancers. Yet women tend to avoid using it 
because of perceived side effects. The only country where it is considered safe 
is the Netherlands. The 1st OCs did cause considerable side effects, however, 
because of the high dose of hormones. Today's low dose OCs have not overcome the 
biases against these high dose OCs. Low dose OCs do not pose the myocardial 
infarct and stroke risks that the high dose OCs did. In fact, the US Food and 
Drug Administration advises low dose OCs as a safe contraceptive for 35-year old 
nonsmoking women. The elevated risks of cardiovascular disease in the high dose 
OCs are quite modest (reduction of life expectancy by several 10s of days) 
compared with the risk of smoking 1-2 packs of cigarettes a day (reduction of 
life expectancy by 4.5 years). A media review indicates many more negative than 
positive stories about OCs. In addition, people are more likely to overestimate 
risks in areas they perceive to be out of their control (e.g., using OCs). Data 
still do not provide a definitive answer on OCs role in breast cancer 
development, however. Nevertheless when examining OC use in 60-year old women 
with and without breast cancer, breast cancer rates are basically the same. A 
meta-analysis of OC use and breast cancer indicates a slight increase in breast 
cancer in 35-40 year old women, but a slight deficit of breast cancer cases in 
40-45 year old women. The US National Institutes of Health plan on a new series 
of OC use and breast cancer studies.

PMID: 12222224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Entre Nous Cph Den. 1995 May;(28-29):11.

Implementing the ICPD Plan of Action in Central Asian Republics and Kazakhstan 
(CARAK). Kyrgyzstan. Breast-feeding is best.

Kushbakeeva A.

PIP: The socioeconomic problems which began in Kyrgyzstan in 1990 have impacted 
on the health of the people living there. A major decline in income, living 
standards, and social security is reflected in the low fertility rate, high 
maternal and infant mortality, and shorter life expectancy. Tuberculosis, viral 
hepatitis, anemia, hypertrophy, and rachitis have become very common in young 
