children. In order to remedy this situation, breast feeding has gained the 
importance of a national program. Other unresolved issues include the high 
neonatal mortality rate, and the increasing maternal mortality rate (from 76.4 
per 100,000 live births in 1991 to 84.2 per 100,000 currently). There has been a 
functioning family planning service and a system of social patronage since 1989. 
In the latter system, a social worker takes charge of families at risk. One 
worker on average attends 30 families. The International Planned Parenthood 
Federation has financed 689 social patronage workers over the past year. 
International organizations have supported the supply of contraceptives through 
humanitarian aid. Because of this, the number of women accepting family planning 
is rising and the fertility rate is decreasing (from 28.2 per 1000 in 1991 to 
26.9 in 1993).

PMID: 12222264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Entre Nous Cph Den. 1995 May;(28-29):8-9.

Implementing the ICPD Plan of Action in Central Asian Republics and Kazakhstan 
(CARAK). Uzbekistan. Squaring up to a demographic crisis.

Karimov S.

PIP: Uzbekistan's population of 20 million is growing at the annual rate of 
2.5%. If this growth rate remains constant, the country's population will have 
grown to 35 million by the year 2015. The country is already showing signs of a 
demographic crisis, characterized by a rising level of infant and maternal 
mortality, a worsening of the general health status of the population, and a 
shorter life expectancy. There is no question, especially in the context of 
already difficult social and ecological circumstances, that Uzbekistan is in 
urgent need of a balanced, thoughtful population policy. The Health Minister, 
Dr. Shafkat Karimov, knows what is at stake and has a clear idea of how 
Uzbekistan's medical service will respond to the challenges ahead. Dr. Karimov 
points to the low health index of reproductive-age women and the spread of 
extragenital diseases as the main causes of the crisis. Frequent births by women 
suffering from extragenital diseases, short child spacing, and giving birth 
either too early or too late in life has led to high levels of infant morbidity 
and mortality. The minister plans to discourage early marriage, implement 
measures to bolster reproductive health, support maternal and child health care, 
provide contraception to meet unmet demand, and reduce levels of maternal 
undernutrition and mortality. Public centers have been established to deal with 
child and adolescent gynecology, as well as to prevent obstetric hemorrhage and 
extragenital diseases. Measures will also be taken with regard to the training 
of general practitioners and medical students.

PMID: 12222334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Entre Nous Cph Den. 1999 Winter;(45):13-4.

Highlight on women's health -- Ukraine.

Savblom C.

PIP: The reference document, "Highlight on Women's Health", shows a decline in 
women's health over the last 4 years in the Republic of Ukraine. This is 
evidenced by the fact that the life expectancy at birth for women declined to 
72.8 in 1997. Factors contributing to this decrease include cardiovascular 
diseases, cancer, accidents, poisoning and trauma. In addition, total fertility 
rate declined to 1.3 in 1996 from 1.7 in 1994, citing abortion as the main form 
of birth control. Maternal mortality among the regions ranged from 12 to 70 per 
100,000 live births. However, the overall maternal mortality rate slightly 
decreased and was 30.4 per 100,000 live births in 1996, with abortion being the 
leading cause for maternal deaths. Moreover, the 1996 morbidity rate from 
syphilis among girls aged 16-18 years was 63.3/100,000; from gonorrhea, 
73.3/100,000. Prevalence of AIDS rose more than 7 times between December 1994 
and 1996. A total of 5444 people in the Ukraine were officially infected with 
HIV; 23% of these were women.

PMID: 12222339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Mon Bull Stat U N Stat Off. 1993 Mar;44(3 Suppl):57-72.

Life tables (complete) in Israel, 1986-1990.

[Article in English, Hebrew]

Israel. Central Bureau of Statistics.

PIP: Life tables are presented by sex for Israel for the period 1986-1990 for 
the total population, Jews, and non-Jews. The tables were prepared using the 
MORTPAK software developed by the United Nations and data available up to 1987.

PMID: 12222389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Ingu munje nonjip. 1992 Dec;(15):17-30.

[Active life expectancy in Taiwan: compression or expansion?].

[Article in Chinese]

Tu J, Chen K, Chen C.

"This paper applies the multiple-decrement life table to the analysis of 
mortality and self-reported disability [for Taiwan], annually from 1986 until 
1989.... It was found that during this period of time, the shifts in 'mortality' 
and 'disability' curves conform to the compression hypothesis. The area in 
between the two curves [has] shrunk in the 4 year period.... The sex 
differential in disability has been examined. It is concluded that though at the 
younger ages women tend to spend less person-years in disability, the situation 
is quite different at older ages. Women tend to have greater chance [of] and 
longer duration suffering from disability at old age than men." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12222447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Ingu munje nonjip. 1994 Jul;(16):17-28.

Changes in marital life cycle in Taiwan: 1976 and 1989.

Tu EJ, Lee M.

"To improve...understanding of recent developments and thus gain a better 
appreciation of the likely future course of marital events, we apply a marital 
status life table model...to describe the differential risks for persons moving 
from one marital status to another over time.... The findings...point to the 
trends and patterns of marital formation, marital dissolution, and mortality 
experience of Taiwan in 1976 and 1989. The findings indicate declines in the 
proportion ever marrying and increases in the average age at marriage. The 
average duration of a marriage and the proportion of cohort life lived in [the] 
married state have been [declining]. The proportion of marriages ending in 
divorce has been rising steadily.... The level, however, is still relatively low 
by international standards." (SUMMARY IN CHI)

excerpt

PMID: 12222453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Ingu munje nonjip. 1997 Jun;(18):19-38.

[Marital status and life expectancy].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen MC, Lee ML.

PIP: "[Many] researchers [have] used RMR (Relative Mortality Rate) to study 
marital status and mortality trying to reveal the selection and protection 
effects of marriage on death. This study instead employs life table technique to 
analyze their effects on life expectancy. Although this study does not intend to 
differentiate the relative importance between selection and protection 
effects,...modeling various hypothetical cohort's marital experiences in [the] 
life course allows us to control all [factors other] than the sole effect of 
marital status." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12222460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Ingu munje nonjip. 1982 Dec;(6):99-114.

[Changes in the age composition of the Taiwan population, 1905-1979].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen K, Yeh T.

PIP: Changes in the age composition of the population of Taiwan are analyzed for 
the period 1905-1979. The authors suggest that the decline in mortality has had 
the major effect on age composition, particularly through improving life 
expectancy at the youngest ages. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12222496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Womens Health Newsl. 1994 Aug;(23):8.

Spain. Women in the world.

Galindo E, Serrano N.

PIP: Spanish women live almost 2 times longer today than did their great 
grandmothers (60-65 years vs. 35). Contraception is more accessible, resulting 
in fewer pregnancies and their complications. The National Health Service of 
Spain provides women and their families medical care. Yet, women's health risks 
continue. Class, race, and geography result in women having uneven access to 
medical care. Primary health care services are not a priority as are high- 
technology hospitals. Women, who already lead a busy life, still care for older 
people or people with disabilities. Many households have a very limited or no 
income and depend on welfare benefits or family. There are more women than men 
who are poor because women, many of whom are single, are raising large families 
and many live alone. Women are often the victims of violence and of domestic 
abuse (1993, 86 violent deaths and 200,000 cases of abuse by a partner). Spain 
has laws that protect women facing divorce and that allow abortion, but men have 
created the world order. Women suffer daily in a world which does not recognize 
rape and sexual harassment as war crimes (e.g., former Yugoslavia). In Seville, 
the Solidarity Network of Women in Black is a pacifist group working to stop 
violence. They plan on setting up links to publicly denounce and act against all 
aggression and to institutionalize women's right to full freedom. War is 
destroying women's lives.

PMID: 12222526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 2002;19(1):49-64. doi:
10.1515/dmdi.2002.19.1.49.

Prediction of clearance in humans from in vitro human liver microsomes and 
allometric scaling. A comparative study of the two approaches.

Mahmood I(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Evaluation I, Office of Clinical Pharmacology and 
Biopharmaceutics, Food & Drug Administration, Rockville, MD 20852, USA. 
Mahmoodi@CBER.FDA.GOV

The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the predicted clearance of a 
drug in humans from in vitro human liver microsomes was comparable with the 
predicted clearance in humans obtained by allometric scaling. Sixteen drugs were 
randomly selected from the literature and their hepatic clearances were 
predicted using human liver microsomes. For allometric scaling at least three 
animal species were used and three methods were utilized to generate allometric 
equations to predict the clearance in humans: (i) clearance vs body weight 
(simple allometry); (ii) product of the clearance and maximum life-span 
potential (MLP) vs body weight; and (iii) the product of clearance and brain 
weight vs body weight. The choice of one of the methods was based on the 'rule 
of exponents' as described by Mahmood and Balian /2,3/. The results of this 
study indicated that the use of human liver microsomes to predict hepatic 
clearance in humans may not provide reliable predictions. On the other hand, the 
prediction of clearance in humans using allometric scaling combined with the 
'rule of exponents' can provide comparatively better prediction of clearance in 
humans.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.2002.19.1.49
PMID: 12222754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Endovasc Ther. 2002 Aug;9(4):411-6. doi: 10.1177/152660280200900404.

Subintimal angioplasty of isolated infragenicular vessels in lower limb 
ischemia: long-term results.

Ingle H(1), Nasim A, Bolia A, Fishwick G, Naylor R, Bell PR, Thompson MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary, Leicester, England, UK.

Erratum in
    J Endovasc Ther 2002 Oct;9(5):A-6.

Comment in
    J Endovasc Ther. 2002 Aug;9(4):417-8.
    J Endovasc Ther. 2002 Aug;9(4):419-21.

PURPOSE: To assess the outcome of subintimal angioplasty in treating isolated 
infragenicular arterial disease in patients with severe lower limb ischemia.
METHODS: A retrospective study reviewed 67 consecutive patients (39 men; mean 
age 76 years, range 41-96) who underwent infragenicular subintimal angioplasty 
between March 1997 and May 2000 for ischemia in 70 limbs. The median length of 
occlusion was 6 cm [corrected] (range 1-10) in the below-knee popliteal 
arteries, 4 cm [corrected] (range 1-4) in the tibioperoneal trunk, 21 cm 
[corrected] (range 1-35) in the anterior tibial artery, 10 (1-30) in the 
posterior tibial artery, and 5 (range 1-20) in the peroneal artery.
RESULTS: The technical and clinical success rates were 86% and 80%, 
respectively. In the 10 (14%) patients with a technical failure, 3 underwent 
successful bypass, 4 had an amputation, 1 had a lumbar sympathectomy, and 2 were 
treated conservatively. Of the 4 (6%) limbs that did not achieve clinical 
success, 2 patients required femorodistal bypass and their ulcers improved; in 
the other 2, ulcerations did not heal completely. The cumulative limb salvage 
rate and freedom from critical limb ischemia (CLI) quantified by Kaplan-Meier 
life-table analysis were 94% and 84% at 36 months. Mortality rates were 19% at 1 
year, 43% at 2 years, and 51% at 3 years. In a subgroup analysis, the rate of 
CLI was significantly lower in nondiabetics (4%) and than in diabetics (24%, 
p=0.02), but neither survival nor amputation rates were significantly different.
CONCLUSIONS: Subintimal angioplasty is a safe and effective procedure for 
treating isolated crural vessels in patients with severe lower limb ischemia.

DOI: 10.1177/152660280200900404
PMID: 12223000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Arch Neurol. 2002 Sep;59(9):1445-50. doi: 10.1001/archneur.59.9.1445.

Outcome measures for pediatric spinal muscular atrophy.

Iannaccone ST(1); American Spinal Muscular Atrophy Randomized Trials (AmSMART) 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children, 2222 Welborn St, Dallas, TX 75219, 
USA. susan.iannaccone@tsrh.org

BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic disease of the anterior 
horn cell with a frequency of 8 per 100 000 live births and a high rate of 
mortality during infancy. The American Spinal Muscular Atrophy Randomized Trials 
(AmSMART) Group is an organization of 5 centers formed to perform clinical 
trials in children with SMA.
OBJECTIVE: To devise reliable methods to measure strength, motor function, lung 
function, and quality of life for use as outcome measures in children with SMA.
SETTING: Tertiary referral center, pediatric neurology department.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twelve children with SMA aged 2 to 14 years were enrolled 
in a reliability study of 4 outcome measures: quantitative muscle testing (in 
children >5 years), gross motor function measure, pulmonary function tests, and 
quality of life. The Richmond Quantitative Measurement System was used to test 
grip, knee flexion and extension, and elbow flexion. Gross motor function 
measure was performed as described, and pulmonary function tests were measured 
using the KoKo system. Quality of life was assessed via the PedsQL and the 
PedsQL Neuromuscular Module for patients and parents.
RESULTS: Ten children fulfilled the inclusion criteria and completed at least 3 
visits with 3 evaluators in 6 months. Using a weighted kappa, the gross motor 
function measure showed high interrater reliability. Quantitative muscle testing 
showed greater variability among the weakest children; the findings for 
pulmonary function tests and quality of life were inconclusive. The PedsQL 
Neuromuscular Module for parents had moderately high reliability.
CONCLUSION: A tool for motor function may be more useful in clinical trials of 
childhood SMA than one for quantitative muscle strength.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.59.9.1445
PMID: 12223032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Orthop Nurs. 2002 Jul-Aug;21(4):64-8. doi: 10.1097/00006416-200207000-00010.

When hearing becomes part of healing.

McCullagh M(1).

Author information:
(1)North Dakota State University, Fargo, North Dakota, USA.

Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) affects 10 million Americans. The number of 
affected people is expected to increase as hearing loss is experienced by 
younger people and life expectancy expands. The problem of noise-induced hearing 
loss is very common among younger as well as older members of the orthopaedic 
population. These patients are at risk for experiencing difficulties in 
communication with care providers as well as family members. However, the nurse 
is in a strategic position to provide care that enhances communication and 
minimize problems associated with hearing loss. This article outlines several 
nursing interventions for caring for a patient with NIHL.

DOI: 10.1097/00006416-200207000-00010
PMID: 12224188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Time. 2002 Aug 26;160(9):A15-7.

The state of the planet.

Bradford L, Dorfman A.

PMID: 12224220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Curr Biol. 2002 Sep 3;12(17):R581. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(02)01095-3.

Lethal moves.

Williams N.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(02)01095-3
PMID: 12225676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2002 Oct;32(10):1237-42. doi: 
10.1016/s0965-1748(02)00086-3.

Genetic engineering in insects of agricultural importance.

Atkinson PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA. 
peter.atkinson@ucr.edu

The past five years have witnessed the extension of genetic transformation 
techniques into 11 insect species covering four orders within the Insecta. While 
the robustness of these transformation systems can be improved, there is now a 
highly likely probability that transformation of a given insect species will 
ensue, provided transposable element-containing plasmid DNA can be effectively 
delivered to the embryo or some other life stage. These developments have 
shifted emphasis to concerns of transgene stability and the regulation of the 
rearing and release of these transgenic insects. They have also led to some 
elegant demonstrations of genetic sexing mechanisms in Drosophila melanogaster 
with the expectation that similar systems be extended into pest insect species. 
These developments and issues are discussed in this short review.

DOI: 10.1016/s0965-1748(02)00086-3
PMID: 12225914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 2002 Sep-Oct;140(5):492-8. doi:
10.1055/s-2002-34007.

[Long-term results of quality of life in patients with idiopathic scoliosis 
after Harrington instrumentation and their relevance for expert evidence].

[Article in German]

Götze C(1), Slomka A, Götze HG, Pötzl W, Liljenqvist U, Steinbeck J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemeine Orthopädie des Universitätsklinikums 
Münster, Germany. chrgoetze@uni-muenster.de

AIM: The expert evidence of operated patients with idiopathic scoliosis is 
determined by functional and pulmonary restriction. The degree of deformity and 
the extent of fusion is crucial for grading disability. In a retrospective study 
on the quality of life (SF-36) and low back pain (Roland-Morris Score) of 82 
patients (22 - 40 years) with idiopathic scoliosis treated with Harrington 
instrumentation the grading was registered.
METHOD: An average of 16.7 years after the surgery, these data were correlated 
with the type and size of curve and to the extension of fusion.
RESULTS: Compared to the age-matched healthy population, there was no 
significant difference in the physical SF-36 scale (P = 0.98). Surgically 
treated patients showed significantly lower scores than at baseline in the 
psychological SF-36 scale (P = 0.005). Sixty-five (79.3 %) of the eighty-two 
patients reported no or occasional back pain in the Roland Index. Five patients 
(6.1 %) complained of chronic back pain. 33 patients (40 %) were legally defined 
in their rate of disability as severely handicapped patients. The grading 
disability was associated with the physical SF-36 scale (P < 0.001) and the low 
back pain (P = 0.02). A significant correlation between the grading disability 
and the extent of fusion (P = 0.53) or the size of curve (p = 0.4) could not be 
proven.
CONCLUSION: Despite good long-term outcomes, 40 % of operated treated patients 
with idiopathic scoliosis were legally defined as severely handicapped persons. 
The additional measurements of quality of life and low-back pain can improve 
legal assessment in orthopaedics.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-34007
PMID: 12226771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2002 Sep 13;127(37):1870-2. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-34067.

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD): secondary prevention.

Völler H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik am See, Fachklinik für Innere Medizin, Abteilung für 
Kardiologie/Angiologie, Rüdersdorf, Germany. heinz.voeller@klinikamsee.com

The prevalence of PAD rises as the population becomes increasingly older. At 
present, about 4.5 million citizens in Germany are estimated to be affected. In 
only one third of the patients intermittent claudication is found as a classical 
PAD marker. The course is thus predominantly asymptomatic. Consequently, careful 
evaluation of patients, including case history and pulse status as well as 
detailed recording of risk factors of atherosclerosis (chiefly smoking and 
diabetes mellitus), are important. When noninvasive methods of investigation is 
taken into account, the prevalence rises two- to three-fold. Duplex sonography 
with measurement of the ankle-brachial index (ABI) is a method which has so far 
not been used widely although it is highly accurate. Life expectancy of patients 
with PAD is shortened by about ten years. The prognosis is determined by the 
natural course of the disease in only a few patients (ischemia syndrome and/or 
ABI < 0.4). Patients are at much greater risk for cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular incidents than of a systemic disease. Mortality is raised up to 
six fold by concomitant coronary heart disease. Therapy should therefore not 
only be designed to treat the peripheral, as well as the atherosclerosis. Like 
walk training under supervision, no smoking, optimal glycemic control in 
diabetic patients and restoration of the lipid status to normal are treatment 
measures that have proved to be effective. As for pharmacotherapy, the efficacy 
of thrombocyte aggregation inhibitors is regarded as proved, whereas many drugs 
targeting symptoms have yielded disappointing results in patients with 
intermittent claudication.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-34067
PMID: 12226785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2002;59:6-11.

National policies for reducing social inequalities in health in Europe.

Zöllner H(1).

Author information:
(1)WHO Regional Office for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark. HZT@who.dk

Gaps in health between poor and rich countries, and between social groups within 
countries, are unacceptably large and may be widening. WHO has made the fight 
against inequities in health a priority in the European region, as part of the 
policy framework for health for all in the twenty-first century (HEALTH21), 
aimed at allowing all people to participate in social and economic life. It 
proposes a number of concrete steps, in order to promote access to health and 
reduce inequalities in health status. Equity should be everybody's concern, 
because inequities in health are everybody's loss. They harm many people, 
operate on a socioeconomic gradient, and put a strain on economic development 
and social cohesion. Equity is not something that is achieved once for all. A 
three-pronged approach to action includes: provision to all people of a "decent 
minimum" of assets and resources for creating and maintaining health and living; 
targeted additional support for disadvantaged groups in ways that respect their 
dignity and human rights; and appropriate policies, actions, and investments to 
secure opportunities and support at all levels of society. Genuine progress can 
be achieved by: * securing a champion and making action understood and 
attractive; * identifying and acting on needs; * working in partnership and at 
different levels - community, subnational, national, and international; * 
mobilizing investment for health; * building in accountability for health; * 
agreeing on policy choices, and reallocating resources and responsibilities 
accordingly; * learning and developing knowledge, and looking around and ahead.

PMID: 12227959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2002;59:12-9.

Tackling social inequality through the development of health policy in 
Lithuania.

Grabauskas V(1), Kalediene R.

Author information:
(1)Kaunas University of Medicine, Kaunas, Lithuania. vilgra@kmu.lt

AIMS: The major aim of this study was to assess existing inequalities in health 
of Lithuanian population and to present the process of health policy development 
as a major tool for reducing inequalities. The objectives were: to present life 
expectancy and mortality trend analysis in comparison with other European 
countries; to demonstrate risk profile of Lithuanian population to major 
noncommunicable diseases related to social inequalities and inequities in 
health; and to present the process of National health policy development as 
potential for effective reduction of inequalities in health of Lithuanian 
population.
METHODS: Information about demographic, general health situation and 
inequalities in health was obtained from Lithuanian Department of Statistics, 
National Health Information Centre and research studies performed at Kaunas 
University of Medicine.
RESULTS: Considerable demographic, social and territorial inequalities in health 
were disclosed in Lithuania. Large proportion of them might be related to social 
inequalities in the society. Substantial improvements in health status of 
Lithuanian population could be expected if due attention was paid to social 
determinants of health.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of balanced national health policy involving all 
sectors of the society is the solution.

PMID: 12227960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Scand J Public Health. 2002;30(3):231-7. doi: 10.1080/14034940210133979.

Life expectancy in the province of Halland, Sweden, 1911-50: the progress of 
public health in a long-living population.

Baigi A(1), Högstedt B, Odén A, Isacsson SO, Herrström P.

Author information:
(1)Research & Development Unit of Primary Health Care, Province of Halland, 
Falkenberg, Sweden. amir.baigi@lthalland.se

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in Sweden is currently one of the longest in the 
world. The population of Halland has the longest life expectancy in Sweden.
AIM: Life expectancy in the province of Halland and Sweden as a whole during 
1911-50 was studied and the findings are discussed in the light of local 
historical data.
METHOD: A trend analysis of risk ratio of death and life expectancy for Halland 
and Sweden was done for the period 1911-50 with regard to calendar year, age, 
and sex using a Poisson model.
RESULTS: The risk ratio between Halland and Sweden was 0.83 for 1911 and 0.76 
for 1950. The risk ratio of death for women was lower compared with men and this 
difference increased over time. At the start of the study period life expectancy 
for men and women was higher in Halland (58.5 and 60.1 years, respectively) 
compared with Sweden (54.7 and 56.4 years, respectively) with a difference of 
approximately 3.8 years. At the end of the study period this difference in life 
expectancy for men and women in Halland (71.3 and 72.3 years, respectively) and 
the nation (68.0 and 69.2 years, respectively) had decreased to approximately 
3.3 years.
CONCLUSION: The long life expectancy seen in Halland today can be traced back to 
the early twentieth century. The starting point for this development seems to be 
a lower infant mortality in Halland compared with Sweden as a nation during the 
1880-90. The basis for this might have been a greater increase of food 
production during the whole nineteenth century as well as other socioeconomic 
characteristics of Halland compared with the rest of the country.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940210133979
PMID: 12227980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am Heart J. 2002 Sep;144(3):440-8. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2002.125501.

Effect of risk stratification on cost-effectiveness of the implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator.

Owens DK(1), Sanders GD, Heidenreich PA, McDonald KM, Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)VA Health Care System, Palo Alto, Calif 94304, USA. owens@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) effectively prevent 
sudden cardiac death, but selection of appropriate patients for implantation is 
complex. We evaluated whether risk stratification based on risk of sudden 
cardiac death alone was sufficient to predict the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of the ICD.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ICD 
implantation compared with empiric amiodarone treatment. The model incorporated 
mortality rates from sudden and nonsudden cardiac death, noncardiac death and 
costs for each treatment strategy. We based our model inputs on data from 
randomized clinical trials, registries, and meta-analyses. We assumed that the 
ICD reduced total mortality rates by 25%, relative to use of amiodarone.
RESULTS: The relationship between cost-effectiveness of the ICD and the total 
annual cardiac mortality rate is U-shaped; cost-effectiveness becomes 
unfavorable at both low and high total cardiac mortality rates. If the annual 
total cardiac mortality rate is 12%, the cost-effectiveness of the ICD varies 
from $36,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained when the ratio of 
sudden cardiac death to nonsudden cardiac death is 4 to $116,000 per QALY gained 
when the ratio is 0.25.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of ICD use relative to amiodarone depends on 
total cardiac mortality rates as well as the ratio of sudden to nonsudden 
cardiac death. Studies of candidate diagnostic tests for risk stratification 
should distinguish patients who die suddenly from those who die nonsuddenly, not 
just patients who die suddenly from those who live.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2002.125501
PMID: 12228780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. ICMH Newsl. 1976 Dec 3;7(87):1.

New laws on population urged.

[No authors listed]

PIP: A workshop on ''Population and the Law'' sponsored by the Family Planning 
Organization of the Philippines and the International Planned Parenthood 
Federation recommended the following changes in Philippine law to implement 
family planning: legalization of abortion for women whose life or health are 
endangered by pregnancy and those who become pregnant despite contraceptives; 
delaying age of marriage to 18; extension of family planning incentives and 
maternity leave to women in government service; allow trained nurses and 
midwives to dispense contractives; legalize sterilization; include sterilization 
in medicare benefits; specify by law which contraceptive drugs may be dispensed 
by nonphysicians and nonpharmacists in rural areas; legalize premarital family 
planning counseling; declare family planning materials tax exempt; encourage 
reluctant doctors to practice sterilization through professional regulatory 
agencies; extend industrial family planning services to women living near the 
plant; launch massive information drives to advise young people of the hazards 
of premarital sex; strict enforcement of abortion laws in areas where illegal 
abortion still exists; grant women equal rights in area of consent for 
sterilization; and eliminate the stigma of illegitimacy for those born out of 
wedlock.

PMID: 12229565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Am Coll Surg. 2002 Sep;195(3):327-31. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(02)01275-9.

Overall mortality in the program on the surgical control of the hyperlipidemias.

Buchwald H(1), Williams SE, Matts JP, Nguyen PA, Boen JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55455, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH), 
a secondary intervention trial, was the only lipid/atherosclerosis randomized 
clinical trial that used a surgical modality--partial ileal bypass. POSCH 
provided solid evidence for the clinical and arteriographic benefits of lipid 
profile normalization. Few longterm followup reports have been published in this 
field. This report concerns overall mortality, the primary endpoint of POSCH, 
with a mean followup of 18 years (range 15.5 to 23.0 years).
STUDY DESIGN: Overall mortality data were compiled from reports to the POSCH 
clinics, followup telephone calls, death certificates, and the US National Death 
Index.
RESULTS: There were 144 deaths in the control group (n = 417) and 120 deaths in 
the intervention group (n = 421), using intent-to-treat analysis. The risk 
reduction in the intervention group was 0.201 (20%); the risk ratio was 0.799, 
or 0.8 (95% confidence intervals, 0.628 to 1.018, p = 0.07). The proportion of 
patients alive was 65.7% in the control group and 72.0% in the intervention 
group, for a difference of 6.3% in the intervention group (p = 0.05). 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis (p = 0.046) and disease-free intervals analysis 
at 70% survival (p < 0.001) were confirmatory. The gain in life expectancy in 
the intervention group was 2.7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Longterm followup POSCH data demonstrate that lipid profile 
normalization will decrease overall mortality and will maintain a persistent and 
constant increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(02)01275-9
PMID: 12229939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2002 Aug;4(4):693-6. doi: 10.1089/15230860260220201.

Overexpression of human thioredoxin in transgenic mice controls oxidative stress 
and life span.

Mitsui A(1), Hamuro J, Nakamura H, Kondo N, Hirabayashi Y, Ishizaki-Koizumi S, 
Hirakawa T, Inoue T, Yodoi J.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Laboratories, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., 1-1 Suzuki-cho, 
Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, 210-8681, Japan.

Transgenic (Tg) mice overexpressing human thioredoxin (TRX), a small 
redox-active protein, were produced to investigate the role of the protein in a 
variety of stresses. Bone marrow cells from TRX-Tg mice were more resistant to 
ultraviolet C-induced cytocide compared with those from wild type (WT) C57BL/6 
mice. TRX-Tg mice exhibited extended median and maximum life spans compared with 
WT mice. Telomerase activity in spleen tissues in TRX-Tg mice was higher than 
that in WT mice. These results suggest that overexpression of TRX results in 
resistance against oxidative stress and a possible extension of life span 
without apparent abnormality in mammals.

DOI: 10.1089/15230860260220201
PMID: 12230882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2766-74.

Increased uptake of the apoptosis-imaging agent (99m)Tc recombinant human 
Annexin V in human tumors after one course of chemotherapy as a predictor of 
tumor response and patient prognosis.

Belhocine T(1), Steinmetz N, Hustinx R, Bartsch P, Jerusalem G, Seidel L, Rigo 
P, Green A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital of Liège, 4000 Liège, 
Belgium. tarik.bel@swing.be

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2757-8.

PURPOSE: Many anticancer therapies exert their therapeutic effect by inducing 
apoptosis in target tumors. We evaluated in a Phase I study the safety and the 
feasibility of (99m)Tc-Annexin V for imaging chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in 
human cancers immediately after the first course of chemotherapy.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifteen patients presenting with lung cancer (n = 10), 
lymphoma (n = 3), or breast cancer (n = 2) underwent (99m)Tc-Annexin V 
scintigraphy before and within 3 days after their first course of chemotherapy. 
Tumor response was evaluated by computed tomography and 
(18)F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography scans, 3 months in 
average after completing the treatment. Median follow-up was 117 days.
RESULTS: In all cases, no tracer uptake was observed before treatment. However, 
24-48 h after the first course of chemotherapy, 7 patients who showed 
(99m)Tc-Annexin V uptake at tumor sites, suggesting apoptosis, had a complete (n 
= 4) or a partial response (n = 3). Conversely, 6 of the 8 patients who showed 
no significant posttreatment tumor uptake had a progressive disease. Despite the 
lack of tracer uptake after treatment, the 2 patients with breast cancer had a 
partial response. Overall survival and progression-free survival were 
significantly related to tracer uptake in treated lung cancers and lymphomas (P 
< 0.05). No serious adverse events were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary results demonstrated the feasibility and the safety 
of (99m)Tc-Annexin V for imaging apoptosis in human tumors after the first 
course of chemotherapy. Initial data suggest that early (99m)Tc-Annexin V tumor 
uptake may be a predictor of response to treatment in-patients with late stage 
lung cancer and lymphoma.

PMID: 12231515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2775-81.

Maintenance biotherapy for metastatic melanoma with interleukin-2 and 
granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor improves survival for patients 
responding to induction concurrent biochemotherapy.

O'Day SJ(1), Boasberg PD, Piro L, Kristedja TS, Wang HJ, Martin M, Deck R, Ames 
P, Shinn K, Kim H, Fournier P, Gammon G.

Author information:
(1)John Wayne Cancer Institute, Santa Monica, California 90404, USA. 
odays@jwci.org

PURPOSE: A prospective Phase II study of a novel maintenance biotherapy regimen 
after induction biochemotherapy was conducted in patients with metastatic 
melanoma in efforts to maintain responses and improve survival.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Thirty-three patients with poor prognosis metastatic 
melanoma who achieved a partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) to 
induction concurrent biochemotherapy were treated with chronic low-dose 
interleukin (IL)-2 and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, and 
intermittent pulses of intermediate/high-dose decrescendo IL-2 over a 12-month 
period. The outcome of these patients was compared with a control group of 
patients at our institution who were treated recently with induction 
biochemotherapy and achieved a PR or SD.
RESULTS: Five patients (15%) achieved a complete response, and 4 patients (12%) 
maintained SD for at least 6 months on maintenance biotherapy. The median 
progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 8.1 months and 
18.5 months, respectively, compared with historical controls, which were PFS 5.9 
months (P = 0.0015) and OS 9.3 months (P = 0.0004). Administration of 
maintenance biotherapy was a significant predictor of PFS (P = 0.0008) and OS (P 
= 0.0001) in multivariate and matched-pair analyses (P = 0.002). The maintenance 
biotherapy regimen was well tolerated with no dose-limiting acute or cumulative 
toxicities.
CONCLUSION: In this single institution study, maintenance biotherapy with IL-2 
and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor in patients achieving PR or 
SD to induction biochemotherapy improved PFS and OS compared with historical 
controls. A larger multicenter Phase II trial has been initiated in an effort to 
confirm these results.

PMID: 12231516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2812-9.

Postremission therapy with low-dose interleukin 2 with or without intermediate 
pulse dose interleukin 2 therapy is well tolerated in elderly patients with 
acute myeloid leukemia: Cancer and Leukemia Group B study 9420.

Farag SS(1), George SL, Lee EJ, Baer M, Dodge RK, Becknell B, Fehniger TA, 
Silverman LR, Crawford J, Bloomfield CD, Larson RA, Schiffer CA, Caligiuri MA.

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, Ohio 43210, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Nov;8(11):3639.

PURPOSE: The purpose of the study is to investigate the tolerability of 
interleukin 2 (IL-2) after intensive chemotherapy in elderly acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML) patients in first complete remission (CR).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: AML patients > or =60 years in CR after induction and 
consolidation chemotherapy on Cancer and Leukemia Group B study 9420 were 
eligible if they had neutrophils > or =1 x 10(9)/liters and platelets > or =75 x 
10(9)/liters. Patients received low-dose IL-2 (1 x 10(6) IU/m(2)/day s.c. for 90 
days) or low-dose IL-2 with intermediate pulse doses (6-12 x 10(6) IU/m(2)/day 
s.c. for 3 days) every 14 days (maximum five pulses). In a subset of patients, 
we investigated the expression of NKG2D ligands by leukemic cells because they 
are likely important mediators of natural killer cytotoxicity.
RESULTS: Of 35 CR patients receiving IL-2, 34 were evaluable for toxicity. 
Median age was 67 (range, 60-76) years. Thirteen of 16 patients receiving 
low-dose IL-2 completed the planned therapy, and 11 of 18 who also received 
intermediate pulse dose IL-2 therapy completed all five pulses. The spectrum of 
toxicity in both groups was similar, with predominantly grade 1-2 fatigue, 
fever, injection site reactions, nausea, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Grade 3-4 
hematological and nonhematological toxicity were more frequent in patients also 
receiving intermediate pulse dose IL-2 therapy. Grade 3-4 fatigue and 
hematological toxicity, although uncommon, were the major causes for 
discontinuing or attenuating therapy. In 8 cases, mRNA for one or more NKG2D 
ligands was detected in leukemic cells obtained at diagnosis before treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose IL-2, with or without intermediate pulse dose therapy, 
given immediately after chemotherapy in first CR to elderly AML patients is well 
tolerated. Expression of NKG2D ligands by leukemic cells was detected in the 
majority of cases tested and should be assessed for correlation with response to 
IL-2 in future studies.

PMID: 12231521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2883-9.

hTERT expression is a prognostic factor of survival in patients with stage I 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Wang L(1), Soria JC, Kemp BL, Liu DD, Mao L, Khuri FR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Activation of telomerase plays a critical role in unlimited proliferation and 
immortalization of cells. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
significance of human telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit (hTERT) 
as a prognostic marker. The expression of hTERT in a large population of 153 
patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer was analyzed using the in situ 
hybridization technique. We found that diffuse and clear hTERT expression was 
present in 51 (33%) of 153 patients. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that hTERT 
expression was associated with shorter overall survival (P = 0.04), shorter 
disease-specific survival (P = 0.03), and shorter disease-free survival (P = 
0.02). Multivariate analysis confirmed this independent prognostic value of 
hTERT expression. Our results indicated that hTERT mRNA expression is associated 
with malignant tumor progression and poor outcome. hTERT may serve as a useful 
marker to identify patients with poor prognosis and to select patients with 
early-stage non-small cell lung cancer who might benefit from adjuvant 
treatment.

PMID: 12231532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Sep;8(9):2924-32.

The paradoxical expression of maspin in ovarian carcinoma.

Sood AK(1), Fletcher MS, Gruman LM, Coffin JE, Jabbari S, Khalkhali-Ellis Z, 
Arbour N, Seftor EA, Hendrix MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University of Iowa, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, Iowa 
52242-1109, USA. anil-sood@uiowa.edu

Expression of concern in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2021 Aug 1;27(15):4456.

Maspin is a noninhibitory member of the serpin family that is down-regulated in 
breast carcinoma but overexpressed in pancreatic carcinoma. There are no 
published data regarding the role of maspin in ovarian carcinoma, which is the 
focus of the present study. Ovarian cell lines (normal and cancer) and tumors 
(80 invasive, 14 benign, and 10 low malignant potential) were evaluated for 
maspin expression and localization. Normal ovarian surface epithelial cells had 
low levels of maspin. Two of four ovarian cancer cell lines (OVCAR3 and SKOV3) 
expressed maspin, whereas the cell line EG had weak expression, and 222 had no 
detectable maspin. Subcellular fractionation studies revealed that the two 
maspin-positive ovarian cancer cell lines contained maspin in both the nuclear 
and cytosolic compartments. Wild-type maspin was transfected into the aggressive 
ovarian cancer cell lines SKOV3 and 222. The in vitro invasive activity of the 
maspin-transfected cell lines was 44-68% lower than respective controls. The 
histopathology analysis revealed that among the ovarian tumors examined, 57 
(71%) were ranked positive for maspin. Thirty (37%) of the invasive tumors 
overexpressed maspin. Invasive cancers were more likely to have predominantly 
cytoplasmic staining compared with benign and low-malignant-potential tumors. 
Maspin overexpression was significantly associated with a high tumor grade (P = 
0.004), the presence of ascites (P = 0.02), a lower likelihood of optimal 
surgical cytoreduction (P = 0.04), and a shorter duration of overall survival 
(median survival, 6.33 versus 2.67 years; P = 0.003). The Cox proportional 
hazards multivariate model revealed that maspin overexpression and high stage 
were independent predictors of survival. Thus, maspin was found to be 
overexpressed in a substantial proportion of ovarian tumors, which may serve as 
an adverse prognostic factor; however, its localization may provide new clues as 
to its activity and function. These paradoxical results may offer new insights 
regarding the role of maspin in ovarian cancer progression that may also impact 
diagnosis and treatment strategies.

PMID: 12231537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Health Estate. 2002 Aug;56(7):53-6.

Examining means of improving fire safety.

Nicholson A.

There are numerous products available to designers and architects for all areas 
of fire safety within buildings. Once the performance criteria have been set by 
the client, insurer, engineer or approving authority the options can be endless 
and generally those designers with historical experience with a particular fire 
safety product will specify these time and again. Most manufacturers of fire 
safety products produce the same types of products with variances on aesthetics 
and costs. The products mentioned above are specialised for particular 
applications, where other products may not be applicable. When choosing products 
for buildings, important areas which should also be considered are: Life 
expectancy of the product. New products may seem completely suitable to a 
particular design specification. However, if the product is fairly new, the 
expected life of the product may not be known. This should be considered as the 
client specification may be contradicted. Monopolies. Due to the nature of fire 
safety products, they are generally bespoke and specialised for certain 
applications. Therefore, there may only be one manufacturer of a product. This 
can sometimes lead to problems with clients since tender packages are the 
preferred method of assigning a particular product or system. In this case the 
performance which is being aimed for should be clearly stated and tenders also 
sent to manufacturers of similar products which closely fit this specification.

PMID: 12233019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Med Trib Med News. 1978 Jul 19;19(24):5.

Comments on the Medical Tribune series on sterilization.

Swartz L.

PIP: It is thought that the Medical Tribune series on sterilization and elective 
hysterectomy took a caustic approach and drew conclusions more from ideology 
than from "observed fact." It is noted that physicians disagree, but it is felt 
that the matter must be presented completely so the patient can make an educated 
decision. In support of elective sterilization as a means to eliminate further 
gynecological surgery, several studies are cited. Muldoon's 10-year follow-up 
study found 43% of 474 tubal ligations needed further gynecological treatment 
and 25% needed major gynecological surgery as support for hysterectomies for 
sterilization. Laufe and Kreutner found vaginal hysterectomies to be an 
effective and safe procedure in 77 patients requiring therapeutic abortion and 
sterilization with or without correction of benign gynecologic pathology. Nagell 
and Roddick concluded that vaginal hysterectomies may be the procedure of choice 
for the indigent, multiparous patient who is most susceptible to development of 
benign and malignant disease, and is unlikely to return for adequate follow-up 
postoperatively. Bunker, using a computer analysis to estimate the benefits vs. 
risks of complete hysterectomies in women 40-50 years old, postmenopausal, and 
in good general health found elective hysterectomy and oophorectomy might 
increase life expectancy 14 days. Child, comparing potential years lost from 
hysterectomies in women 40 years of age and older found that 233,917 years were 
lost by cancer victims as compared with 77,381 years lost by a potential 2058 
hysterectomy deaths, a savings of 156,536 woman-years each year. Elective 
hysterectomies are considered of value in light of women's increasing knowledge 
of uterine cancers. The Medical Tribune's call for a permanent ban on federal 
funding for sterilization of all under 21 years of age and the mentally retarded 
is opposed.

PMID: 12233307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1982 Apr-May;27(4-5):15-9; 28-33.

[Regional differences in life expectancy].

[Article in Polish]

Mijakowska J.

PIP: An analysis of life tables constructed for the 49 voivodships of Poland for 
the years 1973-1975 and 1976-1980 is presented. The life tables have been 
prepared for periods of several years to avoid distortions due to data 
inadequacies for the smaller voivodships. The paper is in two parts: Part 2 is 
concerned with the major causes of death and the effect of their elimination on 
life expectancy.

PMID: 12233424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Rev Fr Aff Soc. 1984 Jun;38 Supplement:151-8.

[Duration and quality of life of the elderly population. Toward a simultaneous 
consideration of mortality and incapacity in the forecasting of health needs].

[Article in French]

Robine J, Colvez A.

PIP: The implications of demographic aging for the forecasting of health care 
needs in France are examined, with emphasis on the need to take into account 
