both the duration and quality of life of the elderly population.

PMID: 12233519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Rev Fr Aff Soc. 1984 Jun;38 Supplement:31-47.

[Economic activity and female life expectancy].

[Article in French]

Bouvier Colle M.

PIP: Changes in female labor force participation in France between 1954 and 1981 
are examined in relation to the decline in fertility and the increase in life 
expectancy. The present and future impact of these changes on the French social 
security system is also assessed.

PMID: 12233522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Oct:1-19.

U.S.S.R.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of the USSR covers the following: geography, the people, 
history, the government, the economy, defense; foreign relations, and relations 
between the USSR and the US. The population totaled 273.8 million as of 1984 
with an annual growth rate of 0.9%. The infant mortality rate is 30/1000. As of 
1982, the life expectancy was 62 years for males and 73 years for females. The 
USSR is the largest country in the world. Its territory stretches from the 
Baltic Sea across the northern Eurasian landmass to the Bering Strait. The 
Soviet Union ranks 3rd in world population (after China and India). More than 
100 ethnic groups live in the USSR, but most are very small. Of the total 
population, 72% are Eastern Slavs. More than 70% of the Slavs are Russians; the 
rest are Ukrainians and Belorussians. Modern Russian history dates from March 
1917, when, after pressuring Tsar Nicholas II into abdicating, representatives 
of the national legislature formed a provisional government. Like the Tsarist 
regime, the new government continued its participation in World War I, which led 
to widespread economic and social dislocation and popular discontent. On 
November 7, 1917, the government was overthrown by a revolutionary group known 
as the Bolshevik wing of the Russian Social Democratic Party. In the Soviet 
system, ultimate power is exercised by the leaders of the Communist Party. The 
party imposes its will through a government apparatus patterned after Western 
political democracies but with little real separation of powers. Government 
functions are dictated by the party, whose hegemony is explicitly acknowledged 
by the Constitution. The party makes state policy and supervises its 
implementation. The Soviet Union has the world's 2nd largest industrial base. 
Western observers estimate Soviet gross national product (GNP) for 1984 at about 
$2.04 trillion and per capita GNP at about $7400. Once an underdeveloped peasant 
society, the USSR has made considerable progress since the Bolshevik Revolution 
in 1917, largely by forcing the pace of basic industrialization. The Soviet 
economy is largely self-sufficient with a broad industrial base. To manage 
relations with the Soviet Union, the US has constructed a policy based on 3 
principles: realism, strength, and dialogue.

PMID: 12233539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Dec:1-7.

Indonesia.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Indonesia focuses on the following: geography; the 
people; history; government and political conditions; the economy; foreign 
relations; defense; and relations between Indonesia and the US. In 1985, 
Indonesia's population totaled 173 million with an annual growth rate of 2.1%. 
Infant mortality was 89/1000 and life expectancy 55 years. The Republic of 
Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,500 islands extending 4800 
kilometers along the equator from the mainland of Southeast Asia to Australia. 
Indonesians are primarily of Malay stock and include many related but distinct 
cultural and linguistic groups. Republic based on the 1945 constitution 
providing for limited separation of executive, legislative, and judicial power. 
The president, elected for a 5-year term, is the dominant government and 
political figure. Over the 1983-85 period, Indonesia experienced much success in 
stabilizing the economy following a downturn in 1981-82. Indonesia cut 
government expenditures, devalued the rupiah by 28% vis-a-vis the US dollar, and 
introduced a financial reform package to improve efficiency in the banking 
system and to encourage savings. Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew 4.2% in 
1983 and 6% in 1984; inflation fell from 12% in 1983 to 9% in 1984 and 4% during 
the 1st part of 1985; the current account deficit declined from 8% to 3% of GDP 
by 1984. Agriculture is the most important domestic sector, accounting for more 
than 25%. The manufacturing sector accounts for 12% of GDP. Since the beginning 
of the Soeharto government, US relations with Indonesia have been close and 
cordial.

PMID: 12233540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Backgr Notes Ser. 1985 Dec:1-8.

Ghana.

United States. Department of State. Bureau of Public Affairs.

PIP: This discussion of Ghana focuses on the following: geography; the people; 
history (postindependence politics and politics in the 1970s and the 1980s); 
government; the economy; foreign relations; and relations between the US and 
Ghana. For the 1970-84 period, the average annual growth rate was 2.6%. The 
infant mortality rate was 86/1000 in 1980-82 and life expectancy 55 years. Ghana 
is situated on West Africa's Gulf of Guinea only a few degrees north of the 
Equator. Most people live on the coast in the northern areas near the Ivory 
Coast, and in the principal cities of Accra and Kumasi. Ethnically, Ghana is 
divided into small groups speaking more than 50 languages and dialects. Among 
the most important linguistic groups are the Akans, the Guans, the Ga- and 
Ewe-speaking peoples of the south and southeast; and the Moshi-Dagomba-speaking 
tribes. In December 1981, Flight Lt. Rawlings and a small group of soldiers 
launched a successful coup against President Linmann. Rawlings and his 
colleagues suspended the 1979 constitution, dismissed the President and his 
cabinet, disolved the Parliament, and proscribed existing political parties. 
They established the Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC). In December 
1982, the PNDC announced a plan to decentralize government from Accra to the 10 
regions, the districts, and local communities, but the PNDC still maintains 
overall control by appointing regional and district secretaries. Ghana has a 
diverse and valuable resouce base. The country is primarily agricultural. 
Ghana's industrial base is relatively advanced, compared to that of other 
African countries. The US and Ghana have enjoyed good relations throughout most 
of Ghana's independence.

PMID: 12233541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Mon Bull Stat U N Stat Off. 1993 Dec;44(12 Suppl.):33-48.

Complete life tables of Israel, 1987-1991.

[Article in English, Hebrew]

Israel. Central Bureau of Statistics.

"This publication presents complete life tables [for Israel] for 1987-1991. Data 
are detailed by single ages, for males and females separately. The data are 
presented for the entire population and for Jews and Non-Jews separately."

excerpt

PMID: 12233660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Mon Bull Stat U N Stat Off. 1995 Nov;46(11 Suppl.):213-32.

Complete life tables of Israel, 1989-1993.

[Article in English, Hebrew]

Israel. Central Bureau of Statistics.

PIP: Complete life tables are presented for Israel for the period 1989-1993. 
Data are presented for single ages by sex for the whole population as well as 
separately for Jews and non-Jews.

PMID: 12233677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Mon Bull Stat U N Stat Off. 1994 May;45(5 Suppl.):141-56.

Complete life tables of Israel, 1988-1992.

[Article in English, Hebrew]

Israel. Central Bureau of Statistics.

"This publication presents complete life tables for [Israel for] 1988-1992. In 
the tables data are detailed by single ages, for males and females separately. 
The data are presented for the entire population and for Jews and Non-Jews 
separately."

excerpt

PMID: 12233681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Mon Bull Stat U N Stat Off. 1983 Feb;34(2 Supplement):33-64.

Population and vital statistics, 1981.

[Article in English, Hebrew]

Israel. Central Bureau of Statistics.

"For various reasons some of the data relating to population estimates, vital 
statistics and causes of death in 1981 were not included in the Statistical 
Abstract of Israel No. 33, 1982. The purpose of this [article] is to complete 
the missing data and to revise and update some other data." Statistics are 
included on population by age, sex, marital status, population group, origin, 
continent of birth, period of immigration, and religion; marriages, divorces, 
live births, deaths, natural increase, infant deaths, and stillbirths by 
religion; characteristics of persons marrying and divorcing, including place of 
residence, religion, age, previous marital status, and year and duration of 
marriage; live births, deaths, and infant deaths by district, sub-district, and 
type of locality of residence; deaths by age, sex, and continent of birth; 
infant deaths by age, sex, and population group; and selected life table values 
by population group and sex.

excerpt

PMID: 12233702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Proc Biol Sci. 2000 Sep 7;267(1454):1765-70. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1208.

Fitness, reproduction and longevity among European aristocratic and rural 
Finnish families in the 1700s and 1800s.

Korpelainen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, Finland. 
helena.korpelainen@helsinki.fi

The life histories of two socio-economically different groups of humans 
comprising birth cohorts from the 1700s and 1800s were investigated. It was 
discovered that fertility selection was greater among European aristocrats and 
mortality selection greater among rural Finns. The life history of the rural 
Finns involved shorter female life spans, a considerably longer period of 
reproduction, higher juvenile mortality, a greater total production of offspring 
and slightly higher individual fitness. In a comparison of parental cohorts, it 
was discovered that longevity and progeny survival improved significantly from 
the 1700s to the 1800s. Out of the three factors investigated, longevity was 
found to influence reproduction and fitness more than socio-economic group or 
birth cohort. The reproductive efficacy and fitness of women increased along 
with their life span. However, reproductive success and fitness were lower among 
women with the longest life span (over 80 years). Among men, reproductive 
success improved consistently along with the increase in longevity. When birth 
intervals were examined, it was discovered that the sex of previous offspring 
did not influence the interval between births.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1208
PMCID: PMC1690744
PMID: 12233775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Pediatr Transplant. 2002 Aug;6(4):295-300. doi: 
10.1034/j.1399-3046.2002.02009.x.

Long-term survival after liver transplantation in children with metabolic 
disorders.

Kayler LK(1), Merion RM, Lee S, Sung RS, Punch JD, Rudich SM, Turcotte JG, 
Campbell DA Jr, Holmes R, Magee JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48109, USA.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation for inherited metabolic disorders aims to save 
the patient's life when the disorder is expected to progress to organ failure, 
and to cure the underlying metabolic defect.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 146 pediatric liver transplants (28 
metabolic; 118 non-metabolic) performed between 1986 and 2000.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight transplants were performed in 24 children with metabolic 
disease (8 females; 16 males; age range 3 months to 17 yr). Indications included 
alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency (n = 8), two cases each of hyperoxaluria type 1, 
Wilson's disease, hereditary tyrosinemia type I, citrullinemia, methylmalonic 
acidemia, and one case each of propionic acidemia, Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 
I, neonatal hemachromatosis, hemophilia B, Niemann-Pick disease type B, and 
cystic fibrosis. Eighteen transplants were whole organ grafts and 10 were lobar 
or segmental. Auxiliary liver transplants were performed in two patients and 
three received combined liver-kidney transplants. There were three deaths from 
sepsis, two from chronic rejection, and one from fulminant hepatitis. Seven of 
10 patients currently of school age are within 1 yr of expected grade and three 
who had pretransplant developmental delay have remained in special education. 
Actuarial survival rates at 5 and 10 yr are 78% and 68%, respectively, with mean 
follow-up in excess of 5 yr. These results compare favorably to 100 pediatric 
patients transplanted for non-metabolic etiologies (65% and 61%, respectively) 
(p= NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric liver transplantation for metabolic disorders results in 
excellent clinical and biochemical outcome with long survival and excellent 
quality of life for most recipients.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3046.2002.02009.x
PMID: 12234269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(17):1-43. doi: 10.3310/hta6170.

A systematic review of effectiveness and economic evaluation of new drug 
treatments for juvenile idiopathic arthritis: etanercept.

Cummins C(1), Connock M, Fry-Smith A, Burls A.

Author information:
(1)West Midlands Health Technology Assessment Group, Institute of Child Health, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6170
PMID: 12234456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Arch Med Res. 2002 Jul-Aug;33(4):351-5. doi: 10.1016/s0188-4409(02)00379-x.

Magnitude and impact of diarrheal diseases.

Guerrant RL(1), Kosek M, Moore S, Lorntz B, Brantley R, Lima AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geographic and International Medicine, 
University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. 
RLG9A@hscmail.mcc.virginia.edu

Among the increasingly unacceptable costs of the diseases of poverty are the 
largely unmeasured but potentially huge human and economic long-term costs of 
common tropical infectious diseases, especially those such as repeated 
dehydrating and malnourishing diarrheal diseases (and enteric infections, even 
without overt liquid stools) that are so prevalent in the developmentally 
critical first year or two of early childhood. We review here the high costs of 
diseases of poverty, increasing diarrhea morbidity (despite decreasing 
mortality), and new emerging evidence for long-term consequences of early 
childhood diarrhea on growth and on physical and cognitive development, effects 
that may translate into costly impairment of human potential and productivity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0188-4409(02)00379-x
PMID: 12234524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Vasa. 2002 Aug;31(3):167-72. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526.31.3.167.

[Endovascular therapy of aneurysms of the abdominal aorta: report of 4,291 
patients of the Eurostar Register].

[Article in German]

Enzler MA(1), van Marrewijk CJ, Buth J, Harris PL.

Author information:
(1)Eurostar Data Registry Centre, Eindhoven, The Netherlands. 
markus.enzler@hirslanden.ch

BACKGROUND: The Eurostar project is a multicentred database of the outcome of 
endovascular repair of infra-renal aortic aneurysms. From 1996 to March, 2002, 
113 European centres of vascular surgery have contributed. The purpose of this 
article is to review the medium term (up to 7 years) results of endovascular 
aneurysm repair as reported to Eurostar.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients intended for endovascular aneurysm repair were 
notified to the Eurostar Data Registry Centre before treatment in order to 
eliminate bias due to selective reporting. The following data was collected on 
all patients: (1) their demographic details and the anatomical characteristics 
of their aneurysms, (2) details of the endovascular device used, (3) procedural 
complications and the immediate outcome, (4) results of contrast enhanced CT 
imaging at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after operation and at yearly intervals 
thereafter, (5) all adverse events. Life table analysis was performed to 
determine the cumulative rates of: (1) death from all causes, (2) secondary 
intervention.
RESULTS: By March 2002, pre- and postoperative data of 4291 patients had been 
registered. The median duration of follow-up was 12 mo (range 0-96). Successful 
deployment was achieved in 97.8% of the patients with a perioperative (30 day) 
mortality of 2.4%. Early conversion to open repair occurred in 1.3%. Late 
rupture of the aneurysm occurred in 35 patients. The significant factors were 
endoleaks, graft migration and kinking. Late conversion to open repair occurred 
at an annual rate of approximately 2%. Risk factors (indications) for late 
conversion were endoleaks, graft migration and kinking.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular repair of infra-renal aortic aneurysms using the first 
and second-generation devices that predominated in this study is associated with 
a risk of early or late failure of 3% per year, based upon an analysis of 
observed primary endpoints of rupture and conversion.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526.31.3.167
PMID: 12236020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Magy Seb. 2002 Aug;55(4):243-9.

[Surgical treatment for primary and secondary tumors of the liver].

[Article in Hungarian]

Takács I(1), Vágvölgyi A, Pósán J, Hallay J.

Author information:
(1)Debreceni Egyetem Orvos- és Egészségtudományi Centrum II. sz. Sebészeti 
Klinika, 4004 Debrecen. takácsistvan@yahoo.com

We performed liver resection for focal liver disease in 266 patients between 
January 1, 1992 and December 31, 2001 at the University of Debrecen Medical and 
Health Science Center, Medical School of Medicine, 2nd Department of Surgery in 
Debrecen, Hungary. The indication was primary liver cancer in 35 cases, liver 
metastasis in 97 cases. The primary tumour and its liver metastases were removed 
synchronously in 28 patients (29.9%). Comparing the results of different 
operating methods we found the need of transfusion significantly less in 
"anterior" liver resections. Regarding operating time, complications and 
survival time there were no significant differences between the different 
operations. One patient died in the perioperative period because of cardiac 
failure and one because of DIC (1.5%). There were 4 complications which needed 
reoperation in the early postoperative period. Eighty of the patients were 
treated with systemic adjuvant chemotherapy (Mayo protocol), with added 
chemoembolisation in another 26 patients. This has not increased life expectancy 
significantly. Thirty-two patients are still alive, their average survival time 
is 21.2 (5 to 59) months. The average survival time of the 78 patients' who died 
is 16.5 (3 to 58) months. Twenty-two patients were lost out of our follow-up.

PMID: 12236080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Magy Seb. 2002 Aug;55(4):265-7.

[Surgical treatment of pleural metastases in breast cancer].

[Article in Hungarian]

Halász L(1), Szentkereszty Z, Furka A, Kiss S, Kollár S.

Author information:
(1)Debreceni Egyetem Orvos- és Egészségtudományi Centrum, II. sz. Sebészeti 
Klinika, 4004 Debrecen.

Pleural metastases of breast cancer is a severe progression of the disease and 
the treatment is difficult. Distant metastases are mainly treated by chemo-, 
radio- or hormone therapy, but in recent years surgical intervention is 
increasingly important. Between the 1st of January 1992 and 31st of December 
2001 in the 2nd Department of Surgery University of Debrecen Medical and Health 
Science Center Medical School of Medicine 43 patients with breast cancer were 
operated on because of pleural metastases. In these patients biopsy and 
pleurodesis with talcum insufflation were performed. The surgical treatment was 
followed by chemotherapy. Pleurodesis was successful at 76.7 percent. The 6, 12 
and 24 months survival was 58.1, 39.5 and 16.3 percent. Based on literature data 
and own experience we conclude that surgical intervention with adjuvant therapy 
extends life expectancy for patients with pleural metastases. Pleurodesis can 
prevent or delay hydrothorax, it improves vital functions and the quality of 
life for patients with pleural metastases.

PMID: 12236084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Adhes Dent. 2002 Summer;4(2):91-103.

Dental adhesives of the future.

Tay FR(1), Pashley DH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. 
kfctay@hknet.com

Comment in
    J Adhes Dent. 2002 Summer;4(2):87.
    J Adhes Dent. 2002 Winter;4(4):251.

The current trend in the development of dentin adhesives attempts to simplify 
bonding steps and make them more user-friendly. However, optimizing speed and 
efficiency should be accomplished without major tradeoffs in the quality or 
durability of resin bonds. Although dentin adhesives have improved tremendously 
over the past decade, postoperative sensitivity, incomplete marginal seal, 
premature bond degradation, biocompatibility, and compromised bonding to 
abnormal substrates are still considered potential problems associated with 
their use. Advances in different scientific disciplines will enrich the pool 
from which ideas may be drawn in designing future dentin adhesives. It is 
probably on the molecular level that we will see the greatest expansion of 
horizons. With the advances in biomimetics, future dentin adhesive monomers may 
contain domains derived from protein-based, underwater bioadhesives secreted by 
aquatic animals such as mussels and barnacles, making them less dependent on the 
surface energy of the bonding substrates as well as less susceptible to 
hydrolytic degradation. As adhesive joints produced by contemporary adhesives 
are brittle in nature, future adhesive design may incorporate biomimetic 
intermediate-strength domains that can undergo stepwise reversible unfolding in 
response to varying functional stress levels before ultimate catastrophic 
failure of the adhesive joint occurs. These domains may also re-establish folded 
configurations on stress relaxation, making the adhesive both strong and tough. 
Using the concept of controlled release, future adhesives may contain 
fluorescent biosensors that can detect pH changes around leaking restorations. 
They may even have the capacity to heal autonomously, in response to microcracks 
formed by functional stresses within the adhesive joint. The ability to 
self-diagnose and self-repair will increase the life expectancy of adhesive 
restorations. Future dentin adhesives may also assume a more instrumental role 
in therapeutics apart from caries prevention. These features may include the 
controlled release of noncollagenous proteins to promote remineralization of 
collagen matrices in sound and caries affected dentin, and growth factors to 
induce controlled formation of reparative dentin.

PMID: 12236646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2002 Oct;30(5):342-51. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0528.2002.00059.x.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for the possible development of cancer in 
patients with oral lichen planus.

van der Meij EH(1), Bezemer PD, van der Waal I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/Oral Pathology, Academic Centre 
for Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA)/Vrije Universiteit Medical Centre, Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Several authors have expressed the view that patients with oral 
lichen planus (OLP) are at increased risk of developing oral cancer. Since OLP 
cannot be effectively treated, regular screening for the possible development of 
oral cancer might be considered.
OBJECTIVES: (i) To calculate costs and effectiveness of screening for oral 
cancer in OLP patients with a decision model; (ii) to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of different screening scenarios; and (iii) to perform a 
sensitivity analysis of several variables used in this model.
METHODS: Costs and effectiveness of a population of 100,000 OLP patients, being 
either screened or not screened for oral cancer, were calculated for the period 
of 1 year. Health gain was expressed as quality adjusted live years (QALY's) and 
equivalent lives saved (ELS). Cost-effectiveness was expressed as extra costs 
(costs of screening minus costs of no screening) per ELS. Then, the outcome was 
compared with the cost-effectiveness of a different screening scenario. Finally, 
the effect of varying the variables: (i) costs of cancer treatment; (ii) annual 
malignant transformation rate (MTR); (iii) sensitivity and specificity of an 
oral examination; and (iv) proportion of cancers found in stage I on extra costs 
per ELS were assessed in a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The health gain from screening was 592 QALY's or the equivalent of 
23.68 lives saved, costing 1,265,229 dollars, meaning that one ELS costed 53,430 
dollars. Increase of cancer-treatment costs will significantly decrease the 
costs per ELS. When the MTR is lower than 0.4% per year, extra costs per ELS 
will increase exponentially. The effect of sensitivity and specificity of an 
oral examination in detecting oral cancer on cost-effectiveness seems to be 
substantial. When the proportion of cancers found in stage I can be increased 
from 40% (without screening) up to at least 60% after screening, extra costs per 
ELS will decrease exponentially.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for oral cancer in OLP patients, based on the presently 
used model, seems attractive. However, varying the several variables in the 
decision model has a significant impact on the final costs and effectiveness. 
Only, when additional information about these variables will become available, a 
more precise and realistic calculation can be performed.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0528.2002.00059.x
PMID: 12236825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Biogerontology. 2002;3(5):301-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1020103518664.

Fecundity and life span in transgenic Drosophila melanogaster overexpressing 
hsp70.

Minois N(1), Vaynberg S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, MN, 
USA. minois@demogr.mpg.de

In the present study, we investigated the effect of hsp70 overexpression on some 
life history components in transgenic fruit flies. We measured life span in 
mated flies and fecundity in flies subjected or not subjected to a heat shock 
inducing hsp70. Heat shock increased life span of the parental line, but not of 
the transgenic lines. Genetic manipulation of the flies altered their fecundity, 
but the heat shock had no effect on fecundity. To conclude, we have observed 
some costs of genetic manipulation by itself on life span and fecundity. 
However, the overexpression of the hsp70 extra copies by the exposure to heat 
did not alter the studied variables.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1020103518664
PMID: 12237566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Cancer. 2002 Oct 1;95(7):1601-4. doi: 10.1002/cncr.10820.

Must patients with advanced cancer choose between a Phase I trial and hospice?

Casarett DJ(1), Karlawish JH, Henry MI, Hirschman KB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion at the Philadelphia Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. 
casarett@mail.med.upenn.edu

BACKGROUND: Phase I oncology trials offer no meaningful chance for direct 
medical benefit and they may prevent patients with advanced cancer from 
receiving palliative care in a hospice program. However, it is not known whether 
dual enrollment in a Phase I trial and hospice is feasible.
METHODS: Five hundred thirty-four Phase I trials were identified in a national 
online database, of which 179 (34%) accepted patients with a life expectancy of 
less than 6 months. Of these, 50 were selected randomly. Their principal 
investigators were surveyed by fax, with follow-up telephone calls and e-mails. 
Ninety-two hospices were selected randomly from a national database. Surveys 
were conducted by telephone with intake coordinators. Principal investigators 
were asked whether patients enrolled in hospice could also enroll in their 
trials if they were eligible in all other respects. Hospice intake coordinators 
were asked whether a patient with advanced cancer who met hospice eligibility 
criteria could also enroll in a Phase I trial.
RESULTS: Surveys were completed by 45 of 50 principal investigators (90%) and by 
89 of 92 hospices (97%). Although both groups were in favor of dual enrollment, 
principal investigators (41 of 45; 91%) were more likely to support dual 
enrollment than hospices (60 of 89; 67%; chi-square test, P = 0.004). Most 
hospices that did not support dual enrollment cited reasons that were based on 
concerns about payment or misunderstandings about the nature of Phase I trials.
CONCLUSIONS: Most hospices and Phase I principal investigators believe that 
eligible patients should be allowed to enroll simultaneously in hospice and 
Phase I trials. These results suggest that the choice between hospice and a 
Phase I trial is a false dilemma and that greater collaboration in this area is 
needed.

Copyright 2002 American Cancer Society.DOI 10.1002/cncr.10820

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10820
PMID: 12237931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2002;34(3):277-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2002.00277.x.

Economic evidence for evidence-based practice.

Stone PW(1), Curran CR, Bakken S.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, School of Nursing, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY 
10032, USA. ps2024@columbia.edu

PURPOSE: To explicate (a) the types of economic analyses available to nurses, 
(b) the measurement of costs in different types of economic evaluations, (c) 
recommendations for standardization, and (d) the assessment of economic 
evaluations for evidence-based practice.
METHODS: Five types of economic analyses are reviewed. Recommendations for 
standardization of cost-effectiveness analyses are included as well as a 
worksheet for use in critiquing economic evaluations for validity and 
applicability to clinical settings.
FINDINGS: Limited knowledge and a lack of consistent approaches to economic 
analyses are evident in the nursing and health care literature. However, nurses 
have not contributed to the conduct of rigorous economic evaluations or research 
to the extent found in other health care disciplines.
CONCLUSIONS: Basing nursing practice on the best available evidence is now the 
expected standard of care. Applying economic evidence to practice requires 
understanding the methods used to conduct economic evaluations and to analyze 
the rigor of such evaluations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2002.00277.x
PMID: 12237991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Dan Med Bull. 2002 Aug;49(3):194-209.

On the etiology of anal squamous carcinoma.

Frisch M(1).

Author information:
(1)Statens Serum Institut, Department of Epidemiological Research, Artillerivej 
3, DK-2300 København S.

The thesis is based on 13 publications in English and a review of the 
literature. The underlying work was done with the overall aim to describe 
incidence patterns for anal squamous carcinoma (anal SC) and to contribute new 
insight into the causes of this neoplasm. The work, supported by the Danish 
Cancer Society, was carried out in the period 1991-2000 while I was employed at 
1) the Danish Cancer Registry, 2) Statens Serum Institute, Department of 
Epidemiology Research, and 3) the National Cancer Institute, Viral Epidemiology 
Branch, Maryland. Study designs employed include a ) population-based incidence 
studies in Denmark and the United States, b) register-based case-control studies 
and cohort studies for the scrutiny of multiple cancer patterns among patients 
with anal SC and for the study of anal SC risk among individuals with certain 
non-malignant diseases of the anal region as well as among persons with the 
acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome (AIDS), c) a nationwide interview-based 
case-control study of risk factors for anal SC and in Denmark and Sweden, and d) 
a combined molecular biological and histological analysis examining the 
association of human papillomavirus (HPV) status with histopathological and 
anatomical characteristics in anal SC tissues. The epidemiology of anal SC has 
changed remarkably during the second half of the 20th century. In Denmark, 
age-adjusted incidence rates per 100,000 person-years increased during the 
period 1943-1997 from around 0.2 among both men an women to 0.5 among men and 
1.0 among women. Where systematically studied, incidence rates of anal SC have 
also been found to increase in a few other countries (Sweden and the United 
States). Register-based multiple cancer studies have shown an excess of previous 
and subsequent genital cancers of squamous histology among women with anal SC. 
This is likely to reflect common susceptibility toward infection with 
cancer-associated HPV types shared by all anogenital organs covered by squamous 
epithelium. A study based on data from the United States supports the possible 
role of anogenital SC-associated HPV types in the development of some tonsillar 
cancers. Observations in other register-based investigations and in the 
Danish-Swedish case-control study challenge the long held belief that benign 
anal lesions (e.g. hemorrhoids) and anal inflammation (e.g. in association with 
Crohn's disease) are linked to an increased risk of anal SC. The work documents 
strong links between a variety of sexual behavior measures and the risk of anal 
SC. The previously observed excess of anal SC among homosexual men is confirmed. 
Unlike in previous studies, an increased risk of anal SC associated with 
promiscuous heterosexual activity is also documented among both men and women. 
Measures of sexual extroversion, rather than sexual preference, are linked to 
the risk of anal SC presumably by means of higher rates of anal HPV infection in 
people with such behaviors. A new hypothesis is proposed to explain how smoking, 
the only consistently observed non-sexual risk factor in previous studies, might 
be associated with anal SC risk. A study of the short-term cancer profile among 
309.365 AIDS patients in the United States provided no evidence to support 
immunosuppression as a major risk factor for anal SC in the first two years 
after the AIDS diagnosis. With the introduction around 1996 of highly active 
anti-retroviral therapy regimens, however, the future may hold a para-doxical 
increase in the incidence of anal SC along with the increased life expectancy in 
this population. Examination of tumor tissues from patients in Denmark and 
Sweden by the polymerase chain reaction techique showed a high proportion of 
anal SCs to be positive for types of HPV that are associated with high risk of 
cervical cancer (90%, 100%, and 58% among women, homosexual men, and 
heterosexual men, respectively). Tumor tissues from control subjects with 
adenocarcinoma of the rectum were consistently HPV-negative. A combined 
molecular biological and histological analysis showed that anal SCs with likely 
origin in the anal canal are 7.5 times more likely to be HPV-positive than anal 
SCs with likely origin in the perianal skin. Additionally, cancer of the anal 
canal are more likely than those of the perianal skin to be characterized 
histologically by small or medium-sized tumor cells, basaloid features, and 
little or no keratinization. Epidemiological studies from the past two decades 
have contributed imprtantly to our current understanding of anal SC and its 
causes. Most cases of this neoplasm can now be considered as a consequence of 
sexually or otherwise acquired infection in the anal mucosa with types of HPV 
already known to be involved in cancers of the uterine cervix. Expectedly, the 
upward trend in the incidence of anal SC seen over the past half century will 
continue in many years to come. However, there is currently widespread, yet 
cautious, optimism regarding the prospects for a prophylactic HPV vaccine. It 
this optimism is justified, the future may bring drastic reductions in the 
incidence of HPV-associated morbidities, including SC.

PMID: 12238281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Dan Med Bull. 2002 Aug;49(3):263-5.

Mortality and causes of death in patients with "lupoid hepatitis." A long-term 
follow-up study in Denmark.

Poulsen LO(1), Thulstrup AM, Mellemkjaer L, Vilstrup H, Sørensen HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital and Aalborg 
Hospital, Vennelyst Boulevard 6, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: The mortality and causes of death in patients with "lupoid 
hepatitis", corresponding to the recent term autoimmune hepatitis, have rarely 
been reported.
METHODS: We identified all patients discharged from hospital with a diagnosis of 
"lupoid hepatitis" from 1 January 1977 until 31 December 1993 in the Danish 
National Registry of Patients. The causes of death for the cohort were 
determined by linkage of the personal identification number with the Danish 
Death Registry. The cohort was followed until 31 December 1996. The expected 
number of deaths was estimated from the national age, sex, calendar period and 
cause-specific death rates; and the standardised mortality ratio was calculated.
RESULTS: We identified a total of 96 patients. The mean age was 50 years, and 
71% of the patients were female. The mean follow-up period was 7.5 years, and 
after 12 years of follow-up, 50% of the patients were still alive. The overall 
standardised mortality ratio was 3.7 (95% CI, 2.7-5.0). The risk of dying from 
liver cirrhosis was increased 51.2-fold (95% CI, 22.1-100.9) compared with the 
general population.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with "lupoid hepatitis" have a reduced life expectancy, 
mainly caused by excess deaths from liver cirrhosis, malignancy and heart 
disease.

PMID: 12238290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Blood. 2002 Oct 1;100(7):2665-7. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0822.

Evidence that the number of hematopoietic stem cells per animal is conserved in 
mammals.

Abkowitz JL(1), Catlin SN, McCallie MT, Guttorp P.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Statistics, University of Washington, Seattle; 
and the Department of Mathematical Statistics, University of Nevada, Las Vegas.

Comment in
    Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4679-80.

Humans and larger mammals require more blood cells per lifetime than mice 
because of their larger size and longer life expectancy. To investigate this 
evolutionary adaptation, we calculated the total number of nucleated marrow 
cells (NMCs) per cat, observing the distribution of (59)Fe to marrow, then 
multiplied this value (1.9 +/- 0.9 x 10(10) [mean +/- SD]) times the frequency 
of feline hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) (6 HSCs/10(7) NMCs) to derive the 
total number of HSCs per cat (11 400 +/- 5400). Surprisingly, when the total 
number of HSCs per mouse was calculated with a similar experimental and 
computational approach, the value was equivalent. These data imply that the 
output of differentiated cells per feline HSC must vastly exceed that of murine 
HSCs. Furthermore, if the total number of human HSCs were also equivalent to the 
total number of HSCs in cat and mouse, the frequency of human HSCs would be 0.7 
to 1.5 HSCs/10(8) NMCs, a frequency that is 20-fold less than estimated by the 
NOD/SCID repopulating assay.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0822
PMID: 12239184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Am J Otolaryngol. 2002 Sep-Oct;23(5):277-81. doi: 10.1053/ajot.2002.126321.

Early oral feeding following total laryngectomy.

Saydam L(1), Kalcioglu T, Kizilay A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Bayindir Medical Center, Ankara; and the 
Department of Otolaryngology, Inonu University Medical School, Malatya, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Pharyngocutaneous fistula is one of the most common nonfatal 
laryngectomy complications (7.6% to 65% of all total patients). Preoperative 
radiotherapy, advanced tumor stage, poor preoperative medical status, and 
concomitant pharyngectomy are usually accepted causative factors in fistula 
formation. Delay of oral feeding is a common practice used by head and neck 
surgeons to prevent the development of pharyngocutaneous fistula. In this 
article we analyze our experience with special emphasis given to the early start 
of postoperative feeding.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The postoperative records of 48 patients who had undergone 
total laryngectomy or total laryngopharyngectomy were reviewed. All patients 
were orally fed with water and clear liquids on the first postoperative day. The 
patients were closely observed at every feeding attempt, and if any sign of 
fistula was noted, a nasogastric tube was inserted. Preoperative radiotherapy, 
stage of disease, tumor differentiation, and pharyngectomy with total 
laryngectomy were statistically analyzed as potential risk factors contributing 
to fistula formation. The Fisher exact test was used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: The overall pharyngocutaneous fistula rate was 12.5% in our series. The 
only statistically significant factor that increased the rate of fistula 
formation was resection of pharyngeal mucosa as an extension of total 
laryngectomy. Other parameters failed to show any statistical significance in 
development of this complication.
CONCLUSION: Evaluation of fistula incidence in our series indicates that 
initiating oral feeding on the first postoperative day does not contribute to 
fistula formation. Additionally, the relatively shortened hospital stay and 
elimination of the psychologic and traumatic side effects of tube feeding are 
benefits of this approach that should be studied in further prospective 
quality-of-life studies.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.)

DOI: 10.1053/ajot.2002.126321
PMID: 12239692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Am J Otolaryngol. 2002 Sep-Oct;23(5):308-11. doi: 10.1053/ajot.2002.124195.

Nasopharyngeal amyloidosis.

Patel A(1), Pambuccian S, Maisel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of ENT and Pathology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
55455, USA.

PURPOSE: To discuss the presentation of localized amyloidosis affecting the 
nasopharynx and discuss the management options. Amyloidosis in the head and neck 
is a rare and benign condition that usually takes the form of localized 
amyloidosis. Because systemic amyloidosis markedly shortens life expectancy 
owing to its involvement with vital organs, rectal biopsy or fat aspiration of 
the anterior abdominal wall must be carried out to exclude systemic involvement. 
Localized amyloidosis in the head and neck can involve the orbit, sinuses, 
nasopharynx, oral cavity, salivary glands, and larynx.
METHODS: We present the case of a patient with conductive hearing loss and 
serous otitis media with effusion secondary to nasopharyngeal amyloidosis, as 
well as present a review of the literature.
RESULTS: Only a few cases of nasopharyngeal amyloidosis have thus far been 
reported. Patients with this disease can also present with recurrent epistaxis, 
postnasal drip, nasal obstruction, and eustachian tube dysfunction. Localized 
amyloidosis of the nasopharynx, which is slow growing, has proved difficult to 
treat because it can persist or recur despite surgical treatment. Furthermore, 
bleeding may be a major complication in treating patients with nasopharyngeal 
amyloidosis by transpalatal excision because the amyloid deposits cause vascular 
wall fragility. Finally, there is no evidence that surgical treatment of 
nasopharyngeal amyloidosis can prolong survival or that localized amyloidosis 
can progress to systemic amyloidosis. For these reasons, we elected to treat our 
patient with a tympanostomy tube and observation.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of systemic disease, localized amyloidosis of the 
nasopharynx may be treated conservatively.

Copyright 2002, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.)

DOI: 10.1053/ajot.2002.124195
PMID: 12239700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Lancet. 2002 Sep 7;360(9335):793-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)09904-X.

The dilemmas of aid: Cambodia 1992-2002.

Gollogly L(1).

Author information:
(1)The Lancet, 32 Jamestown Road, London NW1 7BY, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Nov 16;360(9345):1612.

Cambodia is a small, poor, and sparsely-populated country between Vietnam and 
Thailand, which is making a slow recovery from a long history of conflict. 80% 
of its 11.4 million people live by subsistence farming; rice is their main crop. 
Infant mortality is 89.4/1000, and 12% of children die before the age of 5 
years. Life expectancy is around 50 years, and about 45,000 Khmers (Cambodians) 
are missing at least one limb from a 30 year deposit of landmines and dumping 
unexploded ordinance. Despite a decade of concerted effort by the international 
community to improve Cambodia's prospects, disease and poverty still define life 
for most of the population. In April, 2002, I visited Cambodia for the fourth 
time in 10 years, to see how medical aid projects were faring in particular, and 
to assess whether the past decade of international aid and intervention has 
improved the provision of health care for Khmers.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)09904-X
PMID: 12241843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Oct 1;99(20):12741-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.192442399. Epub 2002 Sep 19.

Beta -Globin mRNA decay in erythroid cells: UG site-preferred endonucleolytic 
cleavage that is augmented by a premature termination codon.

Stevens A(1), Wang Y, Bremer K, Zhang J, Hoepfner R, Antoniou M, Schoenberg DR, 
Maquat LE.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831, 
USA.

Previous work showed that human beta-globin mRNAs harboring a premature 
termination codon are degraded in the erythroid tissues of mice to products that 
lack sequences from the mRNA 5' end but contain a 5' cap-like structure. Whether 
these decay products are the consequence of endonucleolytic or 5'-to-3' 
exonucleolytic activity is unclear. We report that this beta-globin mRNA decay 
pathway is recapitulated in cultured mouse erythroleukemia (MEL) cells and 
targets nonsense-free mRNA to a lesser extent than nonsense-containing mRNA. S1 
nuclease mapping and primer extension demonstrated that 70-80% of decay product 
5' ends contain a UG dinucleotide. Detection of upstream counterparts of these 
decay products indicates that they are generated by endonucleolytic activity. 
Both crude and partially purified polysome extracts prepared from MEL cells 
contain an endonucleolytic activity that generates decay products comparable to 
those observed in vivo. These data suggest that an endonuclease with preference 
for UG dinucleotides is involved in the degradation of nonsense-containing and, 
to a lesser extent, nonsense-free human beta-globin mRNAs in mouse erythroid 
cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.192442399
PMCID: PMC130530
PMID: 12242335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Environ Toxicol. 2002 Oct;17(5):487-92. doi: 10.1002/tox.10083.

Chronic effects of p-nonylphenol on survival and reproduction of Daphnia 
galeata: multigenerational life table experiment.

Tanaka Y(1), Nakanishi J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Science and Technology, Yokohama National 
University, Tokiwadai 79-7, Hodogaya-ku, Yokohama 240-8501 Japan. 
ytanaka@tamacc.chuo-u.ac.jp

The chronic effect of p-nonylphenol on survival and reproduction for two 
generations of the freshwater cladoceran Daphnia galeata was examined by life 
table experiments. The effects on survival and reproduction were used as the 
intrinsic rate of natural increase, r, with the Euler-Lotka equation and were 
analyzed with a simple mathematical model (a power function). The 
population-level EC(50), the concentration of a substance that reduces the 
intrinsic rate of natural increase by 50%, was estimated as 65.2 microg/L for 
the first generation and 81.5 microg/L for the second generation. No 
transgenerational effect that reinforces adverse responses in the offspring 
generation has been detected. From a 48-h immobility test an acute LC(50) was 
estimated to be 60.8 microg/L. The acute LC(50) is a good indicator of the 
chronic population-level effects of this chemical to this species.

Copyright 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/tox.10083
PMID: 12242680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Versicherungsmedizin. 2002 Sep 1;54(3):125-31.

[The history of insurance medicine in Germany].

[Article in German]

Raestrup O.

Necessity for insurance was recognized even in ancient and medieval times. In 
modern times, mathematical and statistical research into mortality ratios, led 
to the start up of insurance companies. Medical advice was needed. Family 
doctors, medical advisers and chief physicians of the insurance companies became 
essential for insurance medicine. The "numerical method" and improved tarif 
systems were used to investigate the survival rates of people in poor health. In 
Germany, extensive statistical analysis of medical records was performed in a 
central data management office (Mitteilungsstelle für Sonderwagnisse). The Dr. 
Karl-Wilder-Foundation of the German insurance companies subsidized research 
into causality of diseases, course and prognosis affecting life expectancy. In 
health insurance publications on historical insurance medical work are rare. In 
accident insurance medicine, concrete conception of terms started especially 
after the second world war. Insurance medical knowledge was promoted in the 
department for insurance medicine of the German Association for Insurance 
Science (Deutscher Verein für Versicherungswissenschaft). Scientific publication 
started in 1886. Collaboration with related disciplines such as traumatology, 
forensic medicine and biostatistic was beneficial and should be extended in the 
future.

PMID: 12242774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Versicherungsmedizin. 2002 Sep 1;54(3):145-6.

[Medical progress demonstrated by the example of cardiology: evidence-based 
medicine results in cost intensive increased longevity].

[Article in German]

Fehske W(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Vinzenz-Hospital, Mehrheimer Strasse 221-223, 50733 Köln.

PMID: 12242777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2002;54(4):315-33. doi: 10.2190/L9FW-GD24-GC5H-DXHW.

Death at the end of the 20th century: individual processes and developmental 
