tasks in old age.

Röcke C(1), Cherry KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Louisana State University, Baton Rouge 70803-5501, 
USA.

In this article, we address the topic of death from historic and contemporary 
perspectives. In the first section, we describe the changes in life expectancy, 
personal experience, and public awareness of death that have occurred over the 
past century. In the next section, we examine the impact these changes have had 
on the mastery of the two developmental tasks in adulthood, acceptance of one's 
own mortality and coping with the death of a spouse. We describe select findings 
from the literature on attitudes, fear or acceptance of death, and grief 
processes. Implications for research, practice, and social change are 
considered.

DOI: 10.2190/L9FW-GD24-GC5H-DXHW
PMID: 12243449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Exp Cell Res. 2002 Oct 1;279(2):321-9. doi: 10.1006/excr.2002.5607.

Telomerase rescues the expression levels of keratinocyte growth factor and 
insulin-like growth factor-II in senescent human fibroblasts.

Kanzaki Y(1), Onoue F, Ishikawa F, Ide T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Kasumi 1-2-3, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima 
734-8551, Japan.

Changes in expression levels of various cytokines, growth factors, and related 
genes were examined by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in a 
normal human fibroblast cell strain, TIG-3, along with in vitro aging. The 
expression levels of KGF and IGF-II were decreased with proliferative aging but 
not by growth arrest of young cells. In telomere-elongated cells prepared by 
transfection with human telomerase reverse transcriptase cDNA, high expression 
levels of these two genes were maintained, suggesting a causal relation between 
telomere shortening and reduced expression of KGF and IGF-II. The expression 
level of HGF was high in both growing and growth-arrested young cells but low in 
both senescent and telomere-elongated cells. The expression levels of 
follistatin and HB-EGF were high in both young growing and telomere-elongated 
cells but low in both senescent and growth-arrested young cells, indicating a 
growth-dependent expression. Expression levels of FGF-1, FGF-2, VEGF, BMP-3, and 
amphiregulin did not change with proliferative aging, growth arrest of young 
cells, or telomere elongation and life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.2002.5607
PMID: 12243757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Radiologe. 2002 Sep;42(9):697-702. doi: 10.1007/s00117-002-0812-4.

[CT radiation exposure in children: Consequences of the American discussion for 
Europe].

[Article in German]

Vock P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Diagnostische Radiologie der Universität Bern, Germany.

QUESTION: Does radiation exposure in pediatric CT require a specific action?
METHODS: Review of the recent literature.
RESULTS: Increasing medical applications and numbers of examinations coupled 
with a significant individual radiation exposure have increased the CT 
contribution to medical exposure to around 38-60%. An up to 10-fold increase in 
radiation sensitivity of small children, their longer life expectancy and an 
overdose due to protocols copied from adult patients are the factors responsible 
for a small but significant excess of cancer mortality over lifetime. Strict 
referral and use of the many technical and medical ways of reducing exposure 
help reduce exposure.
CONCLUSION: Realizing the problem of pediatric CT-exposure is as important as 
analyzing and reducing the causes of biologic impact by CT.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-002-0812-4
PMID: 12244470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. S Afr Med J. 2002 Aug;92(8):618-23.

South African cause-of-death profile in transition--1996 and future trends.

Bradshaw D(1), Schneider M, Dorrington R, Bourne DE, Laubscher R.

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Research Unit, South African Medical Research Council, Cape 
Town.

This paper describes the South African cause-of-death profile in 1996, the 
latest year for which routine data are available. Underreporting of deaths, 
misclassification of causes and HIV/AIDS make face value interpretation of 
reported cause-of-death data difficult. Changes in subsequent years due to 
HIV/AIDS are considered using model projections. South Africa is undergoing a 
protracted bipolar transition with the coexistence of both diseases of poverty 
and emerging chronic diseases. In 1996 these accounted for similar proportions 
of the premature mortality, about 27% for males and 35% for females, with the 
added burden of injuries accounting for a further 35% in males and 16% in 
females. Tuberculosis (TB), lower respiratory tract infections, diarrhoea, 
HIV/AIDS, perinatal diseases, malnutrition and septicaemia contributed to the 
pretransitional conditions, while stroke, diabetes, ischaemic heart disease, 
hypertensive heart disease, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, cancer of 
the lung in men and cancer of the cervix in women contributed to the premature 
mortality due to non-communicable diseases. Homicide is the major cause of 
injury death for men while unintentional injuries are the major cause of injury 
death for women. Projections suggest that this triple burden (diseases of 
poverty, emerging chronic diseases and injuries) has now become a quadruple 
burden resulting from the HIV/AIDS epidemic and that without interventions to 
reduce mortality, by the year 2010, AIDS deaths will account for double all 
other causes of death combined. While efforts to improve the cause-of-death 
statistics are needed, the current data clearly suggest that comprehensive 
public health strategies to improve the health of the nation must be 
strengthened, and reducing the number of deaths that can be expected to result 
from AIDS requires urgent attention.

PMID: 12244621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Compend Contin Educ Dent. 2002 Aug;23(8):695-9, 702, 704 passim; quiz 708.

A meta-analysis evaluating the risk for implant failure in patients who smoke.

Bain CA(1), Weng D, Meltzer A, Kohles SS, Stach RM.

Author information:
(1)University of Glasgow, Glasglow, Scotland.

Failure of dental implants to achieve osseointegration is often attributed to 
patient baseline variables, such as smoking. This meta-analysis examines 
outcomes of clinical studies that monitored the performance of machined-surfaced 
and Osseotite, implants; the analysis also isolates the effect of smoking. The 
implant data for the machined-surfaced implants are derived from three 
prospective multicenter studies (n = 2,614) and from six prospective studies (n 
= 2,274) for the Osseotite implants. All implant placement surgeries followed a 
two-stage surgical approach with an unloaded healing period of 4 to 6 months. An 
evaluation of the data sets (i.e., smokers vs nonsmokers) was first performed to 
determine the existence of imbalance in baseline variables, including patient 
demographics, bone quality, location, dimensions, and types of prostheses. 
Analysis of the distributions of these baseline variables showed similar 
proportionalities and therefore qualified the data sets for comparison of the 
cumulative success rates (CSR) of the implants on the basis of smoking. For the 
2,117 nonsmoking, machined-surfaced implants, the 3-year CSR is 92.8%; for the 
492 implants in the smoking group, the CSR is 93.5%. The 3-year CSR for 1,877 
nonsmoking Osseotite implants is 98.4%; for the 397 smoking implants it is 
98.7%. No difference is observed between the smoking groups and the nonsmoking 
groups in these patient populations. There is, however, a clinically relevant 
difference observed between the two implant types.

PMID: 12244737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Biomed Environ Sci. 2002 Jun;15(2):172-6.

Tuberculosis control priorities defined by using cost-effectiveness and burden 
of disease.

Xu Q(1), Wu ZL, Jin SG, Zhang LX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing 100005, China.

OBJECTIVE: To define TB control priorities using cost-effectiveness and burden 
of disease.
METHODS: An assumed cohort of 2,000 cases was set up based on age-specific 
incidence of 794 newly registered smear-positive cases in Beijing in 1994. 
Prognostic trees and model diagrams of infectivity with natural history and DOTS 
intervention were constructed based on the epidemiological parameters.
RESULTS: DOTS reduced 89.19% of YLL, 78.90% of YLD, and 99.98% of infectivity 
BOD. One DALY could be saved with 45.70 Yuan by DOTS with 3% discount. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that discount had effect on CER. Weight of age was 
insensitive to CER. The higher the DOTS cured rate, the more the 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: DOTS is a good cost-effectiveness TB control strategy. 
Cost-effectiveness and burden of disease can be used to define TB control 
priorities.

PMID: 12244758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Med Trop (Mars). 2002;62(3):256-9.

[Does tropical environment influence morbidity and mortality?].

[Article in French]

Sima Zue A, Chani M, Ngaka Nsafu D, Carpentier JP.

Despite enormous progress in medical science, health care coverage in poor 
countries remains incomplete, uncertain and minimal. The probability of death is 
higher in Africa. Life expectancy is only from 50 to 55 on the African continent 
in comparison with over 70 years in North America and Europe. The African 
population is predominantly young but malnutrition, deficiencies, anemia, 
parasitism and genetic defects (drepanocytemia) are widespread. In general 
treatment of acute trauma and illness is straightforward and vital or functional 
prognosis is good provided that proper elementary care is administered rapidly. 
However due to difficult field conditions and limited medical facilities, care 
is often delayed. Most patients are admitted with advanced, complicated disease 
to facilities that are often poorly equipped, undersupplied and lacking in 
qualified personnel, basic medication and blood products. This combination of 
factors accounts in part for the fact that prognosis of the same disease is 
poorer in tropical areas than in other areas of the world. Rational use of human 
resources and better organization of international cooperation would allow 
short-term improvement in health care in tropical areas. It is only at this 
price that people in the Northern and Southern hemisphere in this time of 
globalization can have the same chance of survival for the same disease.

PMID: 12244923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1970 Jun;3(2):19-28.

Sex differentials in mortality.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The questions leing considered are whether a higher female than male 
mortality rate exists in Ceylon, India, and Pakistan, and whether this sex 
differential can account for the observed high male sex ratios. There is a 
choice between explaining the recorded masculinity of the Indian population by 
assuming that the subordinate position of women caused their omission from the 
census or that it caused their unrecorded death in childhood. The 1951 census 
report of India states that there is a traditional fondness for male issues in 
most parts of the country and a corresponding dislike for female children. 
However, a life table for India applied to the 1951 census gave a higher average 
female age at death 34.7 years as opposed to 33.5 years for male. Other 
estimates for India and Pakistan for the period 1951-1961 give 37.8 years for 
life expectancy for males and 36.98 for females. In 1953 the female death rate 
in Ceylon was over 80% higher than that of the males in the most reproductive 
ages, 20-29. In 1963 the female excess mortality at the same ages was still 25%, 
and in the age group 30-34 almost a 1/3 higher. In India the female death rate 
at ages 15-44 was 38% higher than that of the males in the 1958-1959 survey and 
as much as 174% higher in the Khanna rural survey, 1956-1960. In Pakistan a 
Population growth Estimate experiment conducted during 1962-1965 on a national 
probability sample has shown that in the ages 15-44 the female death rate was 
75% higher than that of the males. High maternal mortality was the major reason. 
In addition, female mortality among young children over age 1 year was 24% 
higher in 1965 and 1963. There was little difference between the rates of 
mortality of the 2 sexes at age 45 and above. Recent trends in Ceylon show 
considerable improvement in maternal mortality which has reduced by 22% the 
ratio of female to male mortality at age 15-44. Also the ratio at ages 1-9 fell 
by 8%. to .1 of a year for every calendar year to 1980.

PMID: 12254516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. JAMA. 1961 Jul 15;177(2):125-9.

Field trial of a contraceptive foam in Puerto Rico.

Paniagua ME.

PIP: Free supplies of Emko Foam were distributed to 142 Puerto Rican couples 
over a 27-month period, comprising 143 couple-years of experience. The people 
were primarily low-income individuals who had not voluntarily sought 
contraception. Thus, they probably had varying degrees of motivation and the 
results are probably lower than would be expected if the contraceptive were used 
correctly at each sexual intercourse. Prior to use of the foam, the pregnancy 
rate for the couples was 80 per 100 couples per year of exposure. When all 
months of the study are included, the pregnancy rate is 29 per 100 couples per 
year of exposure, a drop of 64%. The rate rises in the second 6 months, when 
postpartum amenorrhea is a minor factor, and falls to 17 after 12 months, when 
some of the less regular users have become pregnant. When only the menstrual 
months are considered, the rate decreases from 45 in the first 6 months to 17 
after 12 months. The commonest reason for discontinuing the foam was unplanned 
pregnancy. 12 couples separated, 5 stopped for planned pregnancy, 5 for 
religious reasons, 3 because of husband's objections, 1 because of urethral 
irritation, and 1 because of lost interest. The fact that 69% of the fertile 
couples who were approached to try out the foam accepted indicates a latent 
desire for contraception. A public health program directed toward general 
distribution of contraceptives would appear to be acceptable to low income 
groups in Puerto Rico.

PMID: 12255135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Popul Index. 1975 Oct;42(4):606-35.

A reassessment of the demography of traditional rural China.

Barclay GW, Coale AJ, Stoto MO, Trussell TJ.

PIP: An analysis of the composition, characteristics, and vital processes of the 
population of rural mainland China was undertaken using data collected as part 
of a study of land utilization carried out by Naking University in 1929-1931. 
These data have been reappraised using techniques for demographic analysis of 
faulty data which shows a consistent picture of the Chinese farmer of high morta 
moderate fertility, and early and universal marriage. Estimates of the singulate 
mean age at marriage was 17.5 for females and 21.3 for males. Fewer than 1 in 
1000 women and 3 in 1000 men never married. The reported parity of older women 
was only slightly above 5, which disputes the very large historical family size 
that has been imputed to the chinese. There was a life expectancy of less than 
25 years for each sex, and very high infant mortality. These characteristics 
were of sufficient persistence to have generated a stable age distribution.

PMID: 12259426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Asian Popul Programme News. 1977;6(3):4-7.

A summary analysis of the 3rd inquiry.

[No authors listed]

PIP: 20 ESCAP member countries responded to the "Third Population Inquiry among 
Governments: Population policies in the context of development in 1976." The 
questionnaire sent to the member countries covered economic and social 
development and population growth, mortality, fertility and family formation, 
population distribution and internal migration, international migration, 
population data collection and research, training, and institutional 
arrangements for the formulation of population policies within development. Most 
of the governments in the ESCAP region that responded indicate that the present 
rate of population growth constrains their social and economic development. 
Among the governments that consider the present rate of population growth to 
constrain economic and social development, 13 countries regarded the most 
appropriate response to the constraint would include an adjustment of both 
socioeconomic and demographic factors. 11 of the governments regarded their 
present levels of average life expectancy at birth "acceptable" and 7 identified 
their levels as "unacceptable." Most of the governments who responded consider 
that, in general, their present level of fertility is too high and constrains 
family well-being. Internal migration and population distribution are coming to 
be seen as concerns for government population policy. The most popular 
approaches to distributing economic and social activities are rural development, 
urban and regional development and industrial dispersion. There was much less 
concern among the governments returning the questionnaire about the effect of 
international migration than internal migration on social and economic 
development.

PMID: 12260392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Popul Index. 1978 Jan;44(1):8-27.

The demographic assessment of family planning programs: a bibliographic essay.

Ross JA, Forrest JD.

PIP: Over the past 15-20 years a substantial literature has accumulated in the 
area of determining the effect of family planning programs upon fertility, and a 
selected bibliography is provided. The development of modern contraceptive 
techniques coincided with the development of large national programs designed to 
reduce the fertility of the general population, and literature is presented on 
each of the several evaluation methods that have been used to examine 
program-induced changes in 1 or more fertility measures. 2 methods deal with 
data on individuals - births averted among acceptors and individual matching; 
the latter compares the fertility experience of acceptors and matched 
non-acceptors. A different class of methods is aggregated methods. Either areas 
and areal variables are the focus of the analysis proceeds with measures on 
general subgroups identified by such factors as residence, age, or marital 
status. The aggregate methods are multiple regression, program experiemnts, 
matching of areas, correspondence between program activity and fertility change, 
decomposition, and simulation. The disparity in methods has conspired with large 
differences in programs, data sets, and investigator interests to produce 
serious problems of non-comparability in results.

PMID: 12260799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. PP News. 1978 Jul-Sep;1(3):14.

Title (of the Public Health Services Act) passes, unscathed.

Neumann L.

PIP: Just prior to adjournment, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 
Health Services Amendments of 1978 (HR 12370), which includes a 3-year extension 
of the Family Planning and Population Research Act (Title 10 of the Public 
Health Services Act); Congress has adopted the "Adolescent Health Services and 
Pregnancy Prevention Act of 1978," and has voted to support compromise 
legislation enacted last year which allows Medicaid funding for abortions only 
in limited circumstances. Congress has also approved the "Pregnancy Disability 
Bill," designed to prohibit sex discrimination on the basis of pregnancy. Prior 
to passage of Title 10, which authorizes $200 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 1979, 
rising to $264.5 million in FY 1981, a package of 6 anti-family planning 
amendments were rejected. The adolescent legislation, which receives project 
grants amounting to $50 million for FY 1979, will provide for linkages among 
existing pregnancy-related community services. The Medicaid abortion funding 
compromise allows funds for abortion when the mother's life is in danger, in the 
case of rape, and when continuing the pregnancy would cause long-lasting health 
damage. In addition Title 20 family planning grantees' funds for FY 1979 have 
been raised from $2.5 billion to $2.9 billion.

PMID: 12260862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Tiers Monde. 1979 Jul-Sep;20(79):465-78.

[Ivory Coast: television outside of school for education of rural adults, a 
critical review].

[Article in French]

Benveniste A.

PIP: The television education program in the Ivory Coast is part of a large 
national program of educational reform; the objective is to improve the 
efficiency of the education system, with the following principles: discover 
realistic methods of elite selection and staff training, as well as information 
and broadcasting techniques which allow the whole population to feel integrated 
and to take an active part in the efforts of the politicians. Education in the 
Ivory Coast has 4 main characteristics: low school attendance, insufficient 
profit, underqualified teachers and inadaptation of education to the 
socio-economical needs of the country. The 1st step of the installation of 
educational television was the official adoption of television in 1968. The 2nd 
step was the opening of the 1st television classes in 1971. Finally the 3d step 
was the extension of the television education program to the adults in 1973. 
This program became operational in the beginning of 1974-5. The objectives are 
to undertake an educational action which would allow all rural and urban people 
to understand the developmental actions and to participate to the improvement of 
their condition; to modernize and improve the standards of life for the rural 
population; to valorize agricultural work; to inform the population on the 
administrative and political structures of the country and on its goals; to make 
television more profitable. These objectives set the educational action in the 
context of the present policy of development, without establishing precisely its 
content. Its range is very wide as its main goal is to sensitize the population 
to the themes of national development and political orientations. The programs 
broadcasted concern agriculture, health, hygiene. The public consists of adults 
and young people, rural for the most part, and who have no contact with the 
school program. There is a contradiction in the program: it aims at a wide 
public and tries to obtain mass participation, while it rests on a centralized 
organization which was created by the government and is controlled by its agents 
in the framework of the school system. Educational technology hence becomes a 
tool in the hands of the State, to impose its own idea of development. The 
"peasant mass" observes a sort of passive resistance: it is not motivated by 
these programs which are not adapted to specific groups. The equipment is 
provided by France; the program also receives technical assistance from several 
international organizations. Modern technology is acquired at the cost of a 
reinforcement of economic and cultural dependence: television reaches the bush 
accompanied by American and French series and the western cultural values.

PMID: 12261383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Dev Forum. 1979 Oct;7(7):3.

A measure of welfare.

Harrison P.

PIP: The Overseas Development Council has been seeking to perfect a new kind of 
measure for assessment of development strategies, for it has long been 
recognized that the Gross National Product is an inadequate measurement tool. 
The Physical Quality of Life Index, developed by the ODC over the past 3 years, 
scores nations on a scale of 0-100. It is calculated by averaging the countries' 
scores in 3 important fields of welfare -- adult literacy, infant mortality, and 
life expectancy at age 1. Although the PQLI data are averages also they do seem 
to be sensitive to the distribution of benefits. Results have been calculated 
for every country in the world, and they refute the arguments of conservative 
economists and political leaders who claim that basic human needs can only be 
met through rapid economic growth. Poor countries can achieve high levels of 
welfare for their population without waiting for growth in material wealth, and 
relatively high levels of national income can fail to guarantee that the mass of 
the population will have their basic needs met. In that their advance tends to 
slow down as countries approach the upper levels of the PQLI, the Overseas 
Development Council introduced a new concept -- the disparity reduction ratio -- 
for measuring changes in welfare. This is the annual rate at which each nation 
is closing the gap between its current score and the best expected score 
anywhere for the year 2000. The disparity reduction rate may permit exact 
targets to be established for progress in meeting basic needs. A worthwhile 
objective over the next 20 years might be for each country to halve the gap 
separating them from the best attainable.

PMID: 12261487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1979;8(4):insert.

Note on demographic estimates 1979.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Based on UN projections, national projections, and the South Pacific 
Commission data, the ESCAP Population Division has compiled estimates of the 
1979 population and demogaphic figures for the 38 member countries and associate 
members. The 1979 population is estimated at 2,400 million, 55% of the world 
total of 4,336 million. China comprises 39% of the region, India, 28%. China, 
India, Indonesia, Japan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan comprise 6 of the 10 largest 
countries in the world. China and India are growing at the rate of 1 million 
people per month. Between 1978-9 Hong Kong experienced the highest rate of 
growth, 6.2%, Niue the lowest, 4.5%. Life expectancy at birth is 58.7 years in 
the ESCAP region, but is over 70 in Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, 
and Singapore. At 75.2 years life expectancy in Japan is highest in the world. 
By world standards, a high percentage of females aged 16-64 are economically 
active. More than half the women aged 15-64 are in the labor force in 10 of the 
ESCAP countries. The region is still 73% rural. By the end of the 20th century 
the population of the ESCAP region is projected at 3,272 million, a 36% increase 
over the 1979 total.

PMID: 12261710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Dev Dig. 1980 Jan;18(1):75-6.

New measures of development.

Pearce-batten A.

PIP: As underdeveloped nations began developing after World War 2, it was 
assumed that they would follow the course followed previously by the 
industrialized ountries. Once the economic system could be brought to a stage of 
rapid and self-sustaining growth, it was felt that the benefits of progress 
would diffuse automatically throughout the society. In the last decade, it has 
become obvious that progress does not always reach down to the poorest groups 
within the society. A new goal and program for development--the basic needs 
approach--was formulated. This approach stresses improvement in the living 
standards of the poor. With a change in the approach to development, there came 
a need for a changed measurement of development progrsss. 2 such measures have 
been articulated: 1) the Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI); and 2) the 
Social Accounting Matrix (SAM). The 2 measures illustrate major problems with 
development evaluation. Data is often not available. There is sometimes a 
question as to whether the measure accurately reflects the dynamics of the 
process. The PQLI is a simple measure, concentrating on literacy, infant 
mortality, and life expectancy indices. The SAM is a more complex measure, 
employing models and matrices. National data systems should be reformulated to 
provide the kinds of data necessary for program evaluation.

PMID: 12261722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Dev Dig. 1980 Jan;18(1):95-109.

The Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI).

Morris MD.

PIP: Life expectancy at age 1, infant mortality, and literacy are used as 
indicators of development, describing progress in health, sanitation, education, 
and women's status. Gross National Product (GNP) is the standard measure of 
progress but does not show how output is distributed. The Physical Quality of 
Life Index (PQLI) is a summation of complex social interrelationships on which 
no theoretical explanation imposes any given weights/biases. Equal weight is 
assigned to each component. The life expectancy in Nigeria is 49, infant 
mortality, 180/1000, and literacy, 25%. The PQLI is 25. The life expectancy at 
age 1 in the U.S. is 72, infant mortality 16/1000, and literacy 99%, and the 
PQLI is 94. The PQLI informs about the changing distribution of social benefits 
among countries, between the sexes, among ethnic groups, and by region and 
sector. The PQLI facilitates international and regional comparisons by 
minimizing developmental and cultural ethnocentricities. As the gap closes 
between current performance and maximum attainable performance, the gaps between 
PQLI indicies should close. The PQLI, with signs of lowered infant mortality and 
lengthened life expectancy, paints a less fatalistic pessimistic picture than 
the GNP.

PMID: 12261723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. New Int. 1979 Oct;(80):8-9.

Successful developments in the third world: the facts.

[No authors listed]

PIP: A survey of the substantial progress by the Third World in the education, 
health, and life expectancy of its people includes statistics for countries in 
Africa; Latin America; Asia; Europe; Oceania; and the U.S.S.R.; on increasing 
literacy; school enrollment; reduction of illiteracy; expectation of life at 
birth 1950-1975; mortality rates; improved health standards; and beter 
sanitation.

PMID: 12261765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Bangladesh Dev Stud. 1977;5(1):1-16.

Expected reductions in fetal and infant mortality by prolonged pregnancy spacing 
in rural Bangladesh.

Swenson I.

PIP: The effect of pregnancy spacing on fetal and infant survivorship is 
explored using a life table method. The proportions of detected pregnancies 
surviving to term and to the beginning of the second year of life are calculated 
by different lengths of preceding interval, age of the mother, pregnancy order, 
and the mother's fertility history. The study population consists of the second 
pregnancies in 9295 intervals recorded in Matlab than between 1966-71. Results 
indicate that if all pregnancies were preceded by an interpregnancy interval 
longer than 24 months, about 5% more would survive to the second year of life. 
The corresponding gain would be 2% with an interval of 12-24 months. Pregnancies 
following intervals of less than 12 months and a surviving live birth experience 
the poorest survivorship: lower than first order pregnancies, pregnancies to 
women over 39, or pregnancies of women with a history or 2 or more pregnancy or 
child losses. If all second and above order pregnancies were preceded by an 
interval longer than 24 months, the expected early fetal wastage rate would 
decline by about 42%. If all second and above order pregnancies were preceded by 
intervals longer than 24 months, postneonatal mortality would be expected to 
decline by about 44%. Results of the analysis indicate that the impact of 
pregnancy spacing in decreasing early fetal and postneonatal mortality greatly 
exceeds that of averting births in the high-risk subclasses for other maternal 
factors.

PMID: 12261873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1980;9(1-2):20-4.

Population trends and differentials in countries of the ESCAP region.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The total population of the ESCAP region reached 2.4 billion in 1979, up 
from 2 billion in 1970. 6 of the 10 largest countries are in the region: China, 
India, Indonesia, Japan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. East Asia contains 1.1 
billion; Middle South Asia contains 923 million; Eastern South Asia, 354 
million; and Oceania, 22 million. The crude birth rate for the total region 
dropped by 5 points from 1970-9; the crude death rate dropped by 2 points, 
resulting in a decline in the annual growth rate of .3 percentage points, from 
2.1% in 1970 to 1.8% in 1979. Overall, the total fertility rate decreased by 15% 
from 4.8 to 4.1. The total fertility rate in Australia fell 33% from 2.8 to 1.9 
and in New Zealand from 3.0 to 1.9, or 37%. Generally fertility is lower in 
urban areas than in rural with some exceptions. A strong negative relationship 
between level of education and fertility exists in all countries of Asia and the 
Pacific, however, the parity of women with some primary education exceeds that 
of women with no schooling. Life expectancy at birth for both sexes in the 
region increased from 55.1 years in 1970 to 58.7 years in 1979, or by 7%. The 
highest life expectancy is in Japan at 75.2 years. The infant mortality rate in 
the ESCAP region in 1979 was estimated to be 78/1000. World Fertility Survey 
data indicate that the mean age of first marriage is generally very low but 
gradually increasing.

PMID: 12262026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1980 Nov;7(2):5-8.

An exploration of some two-parameter model life table systems.

Barrett JC.

PIP: The use of the logit function in generating 2-parameter model life tables 
is described, and is compared to several other systems using the English Life 
Tables for females from 1871 to 1961. The logit was found to be the most simple 
and the most successful overall, particularly in that it is more accurate than 
other systems in a wide range of mortality rates, though where mortality is 
substantially lower or higher than standard, improvements can be made by 
adjusting certain values in the equation.

PMID: 12262236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Popul Bull. 1980 Dec;35(5):1-48.

Population growth and poverty in the developing world.

Birdsall N.

PIP: The links between rapid population growth and the absolute poverty 
currently affecting 780 million people in the developing countries (excluding 
China and other centrally planned economies) were examined. Absolute poverty is 
defined as having less than the income necessary to ensure a daily diet of 2150 
calories per person ($200 per person a year in 1970 United States dollars). 
Focus is on poverty and demography in the developing world (defining poverty; 
income, fertility and life expectancy; demographic change and poverty), effect 
of poverty on fertility, family planning programs and the poor, and the outlook 
for the future. Rapid population growth stretches both national and family 
budgets thin with the increasing numbers of children to be fed and educated and 
workers to be provided with jobs. Slower per capita income growth, lack of 
progress in reducing income inequality, and more poverty are the probable 
consequences. Many characteristics of poverty can cause high fertility -- high 
infant mortality, lack of education for women in particular, too little family 
income to invest in children, inequitable shares in national income, and the 
inaccessibility of family planning. Experience in China, Indonesia, Taiwan, 
Colombia, Korea, Sri Lanka, Cuba and Costa Rica demonstrate that birthrates can 
decline rapidly in low income groups and countries when basic health care, 
education, and low-cost or free family planning services are made widely 
available.

PMID: 12262264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Bol Mens Estad DANE. 1980 Jun;347:47-80.

[Age, marital status, fecundity and mortality of the population of Colombia: 
demographic results of the National Household Survey, June 1978].

[Article in Spanish]

Division de Demografia y Division de Censos y Pryectos Especificos DANE.

PIP: This paper presents the results of the National Household Survey conducted 
in Colombia in June 1978, which covered about 0.2% of the total population, and 
which interviewed 60,000 people in rural and in urban areas. Main findings were: 
1) a decrease in the percentage of the population aged 0-4, and 5-9, as compared 
to the population aged 10-14; 2) a decrease in the number of live births, 
especially in young women; and, 3) average parity per woman was 3.7, a decrease 
of 12% since 1976. Crude birth rate was measured to be 27.4/1000, while it was 
31.1/1000 in 1976. Life expectancy was estimated to be 65.1 for women, and 55.1 
for men, much too low to be acceptable, and possibly caused by wrong information 
given to interviewers. Total mortality was 6.7/1000, too low to be acceptable, 
while infant mortality was 69/1000.

PMID: 12262301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. N Z J Fam Plann. 1980:15.

The Tongan story.

Davies H.

PIP: The (N.Z.F.P.A.) New Zealand Family Planning Association has accepted a 
certain responsibility for the Tongan F.P.A. to provide administrative and 
clinical monitors. It is important that visits are made to the Kingdom to assist 
with budgeting, spending, and in the maintenance of a good contraceptive and 
educational program. Mrs. D. Nicholson and myself spent 1 week in March in Tonga 
for this purpose. The T.F.P.A. is fairly strong now, well-motivated and keen to 
see a job well done. The people generally are beginning to see clearly their 
problems in the face of shrinking resources and a growing population. The clinic 
building was officially opened in 1977 and is now staffed by a Tongan Medical 
Practitioner, a Tongan nurse and a young clerk/typist. This clinic provides a 
total family planning service, ante-and postnatal care and general family health 
services. It is also the headquarters for a team of motivators who go into the 
villages introducing the subject of family planning, the methods available, and 
making condoms available until the people can come to terms with other methods. 
These motivators are superivsed by a convenor who sees these motivators as being 
most successful if they teach total family health; this includes home budgeting, 
diet, even gardening, and animal husbandry. With the developing social and 
economic problems being faced by the Tongans, it is important that family 
planning becomes involved in this whole business of living. The T.F.P.A. run 
good radio programs (the radio being virtually the only reliable method of 
communication) and requests for speakers are snowballing. The people are good 
acceptors of family planning - with certain provisos - it is important still 
that a male child be born to a couple. Their future problems, however, still 
loom large. Education is very important but there are few, if any, job 
opportunities for the well-educated when they graduate. Nuku'alofa is a busy 
port and the F.P.A. doctor worries about the increasing incidence of V.D. It is 
not yet possible to present family planning education to groups of mixed sexes; 
this is forbidden by Tongan culture. The Tongan family planning program is on 
the way to becoming firmly entrenched on Tonga-tapu but there are many outer 
islands which have a crying need for an extension of the service. There is a lot 
still to be done and a long way to do. The committee, staff, and motivators are 
most appreciative of any aid and assistance given to them and they see that they 
must justify all this help. I believe that this help must be on-going and 
available. The Tongans are a charming, friendly people beginning to realize that 
if they are to survive they must rethink their traditional way of life.

PMID: 12262428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Data Asia. 1981 Mar 23-29;10(13):7793-4.

India: population: 683 million Indians.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The population of India at present is estimated at 683.8 million, showing 
an increase of 135.6 million or 24.75% over the count made by the 1971 census. 
Since 1947 when India regained its independence from British rule, the 
population has doubled. Reporting on preliminary results of the 1981 census 
which cost the Government $50 million, Census Commissioner P. Padmanabha said 
the enumeration showed 353.3 million males and 330.4 million females (table) 
giving a national sex ratio of 935 females/1,000 males. Conducted by 1.25 
million full and parttime enumerators, the census covered the whole of India 
except for Assam, Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Padmanabha explained that a tense 
political situation prevailing in Assam made a headcount impracticle while 
climactic conditions caused postponement of the headcount in Jammu and Dashmir 
states. The count showed India's present birthrate at 36/1000 compared to the 41 
determined by the 1971 census. The deathrate has fallen to 14.8 from the 
previous 15.7, while the infant mortality rate also declined to 127 from 137. 
Lifespan has extended from 46 to 54 for males and from 44 to 53 years for 
females. The national literacy rate had risen to 36.17% from the former 34.45% 
of a decade ago. This translates into 158 million literate men and 79 million 
women. Male literacy at 46.76% overshadowed that of female at 24.88%. Kerala 
state recorded the highest literacy rate of 69.2% followed by Chandigarh at 
64.68% and Delhi in 3rd with 61.06%.

PMID: 12262498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Majalah Demografi Indones. 1978;5(9):1-8.

The age pattern of mortality in Indonesia: a comment.

Mcdonald P.

PMID: 12262740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Egypte Contemp. 1977;68(370):295-307.

Construction of abridged life tables by reference to a standard complete 
life-table.

Abul-ela Ala.

PMID: 12262784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Egypte Contemp. 1977;68(370):95-107.

Construction of abridged life tables by reference to a standard complete 
life-table.

Abul-ela Ala.

PMID: 12262785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Nieuwe West Indische Gids. 1977;52(1-2):51-7. doi:
10.1163/22134360-90002156.

Life table for Suriname 1964-1970.

Boldewijn AC, Lamur HE, Lamur RA.

DOI: 10.1163/22134360-90002156
PMID: 12262786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Rural Demogr. 1977;4(1-2):35-60.

A review of the mortality level in Bangladesh estimated from cholera research, 
PGE [Population Growth Estimation] and the 1974 survey data.

Kabir M.

PMID: 12262893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Genus. 1978;34(1-2):215-25.

Abridged life tables of Iran, 1956-1966.

Farahani EM.

PMID: 12262922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1979;6(2):8.

A note on the Brass procedure for converting a series of proportions of children 
dead directly into a life table.

Trussell J.

PMID: 12262964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Majalah Demografi Indones. 1977;4(7):25-41.

Using retrospective mortality data to test the applicability of model life 
tables for Indonesia.

Sinquefield JC, Kartoyo A.

PMID: 12263075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Asian Pac Census Newsl. 1978;4(3):5-8.

Single-year computational procedures used in the own-children method of 
fertility estimation.

Retherford RD.

PMID: 12263097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Asian Pac Census Newsl. 1976;3(4):5-10.

Two-parameter regression estimates of current life expectancy at birth: Part 2.

Swanson DA, Palmore JA, Sundaram C.

PMID: 12263126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Biom J. 1979;21(5):417-30. doi: 10.1002/bimj.4710210504.

Estimation of Bayesian confidence intervals for the product of conditional 
survival probabilities.

Schmitz H.

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.4710210504
PMID: 12263275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Genus. 1976;32(3-4):1-10.

Transformations for model life tables.

Barrett JC.

PMID: 12263280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Popul Bull U N Econ Comm West Asia. 1980 Jun;18:65-80.

United Nations population estimates and projections with special reference to 
the Arab world.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

PIP: The United Nations Population Division has been preparing world population 
estimates and projections by region since 1951, by country since 1958, and by 
sex and age for each country since 1968. The latest revision of the projections 
was prepared in 1978. The 2 basic methods of preparing population projections 
are mathematical and component, and the component methods are most widely used 
at present, by both national governments and the United Nations. Before 
projections are prepared, the base data must be evaluated and adjusted. In the 
UN projections, the assumptions imply that orderly progress will be made and 
that there will be no catastrophes such as famines and epidemics during the 
projection period. The projectins are prepared in 4 variants--"medium", "high," 
"low," and "constant." A major source of uncertainty in populations arises from 
the problem of estimating future fertility. Changes in fertility affect the age 
distribution and the total population size more than changes in mortality. At 
the UN, mortality assumptions are initially made in terms of life expectancy at 
birth and then in terms of age-sex patterns of probabilities of survival 
corresponding to different life expectancy levels at birth. Some of the results 
of the 1978 revision of the medium variant of the estimates and projections are 
shown in table form. The world total population of 4,033,000,000 in 1975 is 
projected to reach 6,199,000,000 by the year 2000. Among the major areas and 
regions of the world, the most rapid population growth for the future is 
projected for the Arab countries, Africa and Latin America. Of the 2 Arab 
regions, North Africa and Southwest Asia, Southwest Asia is expected to have the 
higher rate of growth because of assumed continued immigration. Within the Arab 
regions, there has been an increasing diversity in the rate of population 
growth. This divergence is expected to narrow with assumed decreased migration 
rates during the 1980s.

PMID: 12263346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Demografie. 1978;20(2):182-5.

[Life tables, 1974].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 12263583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Mmg. 1977;2(4):229-35.

[Social and ecological factors in the declining life expectancy in 
industrialized countries].

[Article in German]

Janiscke M.

PMID: 12263592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Demografie. 1979;21(1):83-6.

[Czechoslovak life tables, 1920-1922].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 12263662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Manshur Atmajallat Dirasat Alkhalij Waal Jazirah Alarabiyah.
1979;5(19):11-24.

[Average life expectancy and the normal age at death among the Kuwaiti 
population, 1975].

[Article in Arabic]

Al-shalqani M.

PMID: 12263671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1980;25(1):13-7.

[Distributions of life expectancy in Poland in 1950-1976].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M.

PMID: 12263733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Studia Demogr. 1979;(56):27-34.

[Expectation of life in Poland over the past 60 years, 1918-1978].

[Article in Polish]

Vielrose E.

PMID: 12263746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Statistica. 1980;40(1):51-68.

[On the process of mortality in a rest home for old people].

[Article in Italian]
