
Bonarini F.

PIP: The author uses Brass's model life tables to compare mortality rates of 
residents in a rest home in Padua with those in the Venetia region of Italy. The 
possibility of a high death rate resulting from health conditions existing prior 
to admittance to the home is examined. The relationship between marital status 
and mortality among residents is also investigated (SUMMARY IN ENG, FRE)

PMID: 12263772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Notas Poblacion. 1980;8(23):11-46.

[Construction of a life table based on seven age groups].

[Article in Spanish]

Bocaz A.

PIP: The author investigates the advantages and disadvantages of constructing 
abbreviated life tables based on only seven age groups. Analytical suggestions 
for the determination of survival probabilities between distant ages and for the 
use of the life table for advanced ages are presented (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12263777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Mmg. 1976;1(1):27-32.

[Life expectancy and life style].

[Article in German]

Schaefer H.

PMID: 12263850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Rev Bras Estat. 1978;39(154):193-262.

[Working-life potential based on the mortality of Latin American populations].

[Article in Portuguese]

Barros ET.

PMID: 12263913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Popul Policy Compend. 1981 Sep:1-7.

Madagascar.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations. Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Madagascar is on the following: the history of 
the country's demographic situation; the government's overall approach to 
population problems; statistical systems and development planning; institutional 
arrangements for the integration of population within development planning; the 
government's view of the importance of population policy in achieving 
development objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; morbidity 
and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. The 
government uses no direct intervention to modify fertility and population growth 
but does emphasize economic and social restructuring. The official policy is to 
combat high mortality and morbidity and to modify spatial distribution. 
Madagascar's civil registration system has been in existence since 1896. The 1st 
census was conducted in 1975, and since then postcensus and household budget 
surveys have been conducted. The vital registration system is incomplete. The 
government views population as a development resource to be utilized effectively 
in realizing the goal of a socialist pattern of society. The principal objective 
of population policy is family welfare. Economic growth, social well-being, and 
family welfare are considered inextricably interlinked and as a necessary basis 
of policy formation. The development plan for 1978-1980 used an adjusted census 
estimate of 8.2 million for the population of Madagascar. Demographic surveys 
conducted in the 1960s gave a crude birth rate of between 44 and 47/1000 and a 
general fertility rate of about 200/1000 females in the reproductive ages. There 
was a drop in the crude death rate from 22 to 28/100 population in 1966 to 
20/1000 in 1978. 50% of all deaths recorded are attributed to infectious 
diseases. The government considers the present levels of immigration and 
emigration as not significant and satisfactory. The population is predominantly 
rural. The average annual rate of increase of urban population has been 
estimated at 5.3% during the 1975-1980 period. Internal migration flows have not 
been excessively rural to urban. The government considers the present spatial 
distribution of the population as inappropriate, primarily with regard to 
regional disparities in both rural and urban settings.

PMID: 12263955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Dly Rep Peoples Repub China. 1980 Sep 26;1:L1-4.

CCP Central Committee open letter on population control.

Beijing Xinhua Domestic Service.

PIP: The State Council has issued a call to all people in China advocating 1 
child families. The objective is to limit China's population to 1.2 billion by 
the end of the 20th century. This is an important measure that concerns the 
speed and future of the 4 modernizations as well as the health and happiness of 
future generations. The CCP Central Committee calls on all CCP and CYL members, 
particularly cadres at all levels, to take the lead and respond with practical 
actions to the State Council's call, and actively, conscientiously, and 
patiently publicize the call among the broad masses. Since the founding of the 
People's Republic, the death rate of the population has been greatly reduced and 
life expectancy has been greatly lengthened. Yet, the population's birth rate 
has not been appropriately controlled. The population growth was fastest in the 
period from 1963-1970. If the population growth is not brought under control 
within the next 30-40 years, through 1 child families, China's population will 
reach 1.3 billion after 20 years and surpass 1.5 billion after 40 years based on 
the present rate of 2.2 children per couple. The most effective way to control 
the population growth is to implement the State Council's call for 1 child 
families. If the population increases too rapidly, it will be most difficult to 
raise the people's living standard. The goal of 1 child families can be realized 
if all the people work conscientiously. In addition to advocating 1 child 
families, the need for later marriages and childbearing also must be stressed. 
To control population growth, the party and government have decided to adopt a 
number of specific policies. These will include special consideration for only 
children and their families in nursery and school enrollment, medical care, 
employment, housing allocations if they live in cities, and allocations of land 
on which to build houses if they live in rural areas.

PMID: 12263997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1981 Dec;1(1):59-76.

[A study regarding estimates of the trends in the family life cycle in Korea: 
1935-1975 (author's transl)].

[Article in Korean]

Kwon HW.

PIP: The concept of the family life cycle is important because it leads one away 
from thinking in terms of static family ideal types and towards an appreication 
of actual process. It concerns the hypothetically "typical" family as it 
progresses from marriage through childrearing, children leaving home, the "empty 
nest" period, and the final dissolution of the family. One underlying idea of 
family life cycle studies is to establish a priori phases in the structure of 
the family as a group which are related to the process of family formation and 
the phases of the life cycles of those who compose it. The purpose of this paper 
is to look at the relationship between family types and industrialization, and 
to review and update previous work done in this area, as well as to estimate and 
discuss trends in the family life cycle on the basis of actual data available. 
In this study, the WHO basic model of a nuclear family life cycle is used which 
consists of 6 stages: formation, extension, completed extension, contraction, 
completed contraction, and dissolution. Some conclusions which can be drawn 
follow. The median age at marriage has been increasing, and although Korean 
women begin their childbearing later, they completed childbirth earlier, by 
means of reducing the number of children and by shortening the birth interval. 
In 1935 and 1945, husbands appeared to die before the marriage of the last 
child, which means the deviation of the assumption that both are alive when the 
last child gets married. Recent data shows that more childfree years will be 
spent by couples during old age than ever before. The length of each phase of 
the family life cycle in Korea portrays a consistent picture. The interval from 
marriage to the birth of the last child decreased by about 1/2, from 14.8 years 
in 1935 to 7.1 years in 1975. And the period of contraction has shortened about 
1/2, which is an effect of smaller number of children/family and the shorter 
birth interval. Korean women now enjoy a longer interval between the end of the 
childbearing period and the final dissolution of marriage by the death of 1 
spouse. The effect of the increasing divorce rate among couples could have a 
more profound effect on life-cycle studies. The above results and speculations 
remind us of the fact that patterns of action governing the ultimate disposition 
of persons to marry, bear children, divorce, emerge from a complex of 
interacting factors. (author's)

PMID: 12264039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Popul Bull. 1982 Jun;37(2):1-51.

U.S. population: where we are; where we're going.

Population Reference Bureau PRB.

This Bulletin reviews recent trends in the dynamics and character of the U.S. 
population, the outlook for the remainder of the 1980s, and prospects for 
longterm growth. Estimated at 232 million as of mid-1982, the U.S. population is 
currently growing at about 1% a year, one of the developed world's highest 
growth rates. Natural increase (births-deaths) still adds some 1.7 million 
people a year, despite the rapid postbaby boom fall in fertility to a 
near-record low rate of 1.9 births/woman in 1981. With increasing numbers of 
refugees, net legal immigration averaged 600,000/year in 1979-81 and the net 
inflow of illegal immigrants may now be 500,000 a year. Uncertainty over 
potentially large numbers of immigrants complicates projections of future U.S. 
population size. Currently, the U.S. death rate is at an alltime low. More than 
1/2 the population now resides in the South and West. Rural areas and small 
towns grew faster than urban areas in the 1970s for the 1st time in over a 
century. Educational attainment is at an alltime high, as is labor force 
participation, due to increasing employment among women and the baby boom 
generation's arrival at working ages. The age composition of the population, 
with the bulge of the baby boom generation surrounded by the older "depression" 
generation born during the 1930s and the younger "baby bust" generation born 
since the end of the 1960s, presents special problems for U.S. society.

PMID: 12264339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Popul Bull. 1982 Aug;37(3):3-44.

The Soviet Union: population trends and dilemmas.

Feshbach M.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of population trends and dilemmas in the Soviet 
Union is on demographic problems, data limitations, early population growth, 
geography and resources, the 15 republics of the Soviet Union and nationalities, 
agriculture and the economy, population growth over the 1950-1980 period 
(national trend, regional differences); age and sex composition of the 
population, fertility trends, nationality differentials in fertility, the 
reasons for fertility differentials (child care, divorce, abortion and 
contraception, illegitimacy), labor shortages and military personnel, mortality 
(mortality trends, life expectancy), reasons for mortality increases, 
urbanization and emigration, and future population prospects and projections. 
For mid-1982 the population of the Soviet Union was estimated at 270 million. 
The country's current rate of natural increase (births minus deaths) is about 
0.8% a year, higher than current rates of natural increase in the U.S. (0.7%) 
and in developed countries as a whole (0.6%). Net immigration plays no part in 
Soviet population growth, but emigration was noticeable in some years during the 
1970s, while remaining insignificant relative to total population size. National 
population growth has dropped by more than half in the last 2 decades, from 1.8% 
a year in the 1950s to 0.8% in 1980-1981, due mostly to declining fertility. The 
national fertility decline masks sharp differences among the 15 republics and 
even more so among the some 125 nationalities. In 1980, the Russian Republic had 
an estimated fertility rate of 1.9 births/woman, and the rate was just 2.0 in 
the other 2 Slavic republics, the Ukraine and Belorussia. In the Central Asian 
republics the rates ranged up to 5.8. Although the Russians will no doubt 
continue to be the dominant nationality, low fertility and a relatively higher 
death rate will reduce their share of the total population by less than half by 
the end of the century. Soviet leaders have launched a pronatalist policy which 
they hope will lead to an increase in fertility, at least among the dominant 
Slavic groups of the multinational country. More than 9 billion rubles (U.S. 
$12.2 billion) is to be spent over the next 5 years to implement measures aimed 
at increasing state aid to families with children, to be carried out step by 
step in different regions of the country. It is this writer's opinion that 
overall fertility is not likely to increase markedly despite the recent efforts 
of the central authorities, and the Russian share of the total population will 
probably continue to drop while that of Central Asian Muslim peoples increases.

PMID: 12264357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Jahrb Natl Okon Stat. 1980;195(2):127-52. doi: 10.1515/jbnst-1980-0204.

[Two methods for the determination of working life tables and their problems].

[Article in German]

Schaich E, Schweitzer W.

PIP: 2 methods for the determination of tables of working life are presented in 
this paper. The 1st table is based on individual cohorts of working persons of 
the same age so that, altogether, a separate table of working life can be 
established for each of these cohorts. Detailed data are required for this 
method, and they are unavailable at this time. Thus, a less than perfect 
approach is presented which is based on Markov chains with homogenous transition 
probabilties for all working and nonworking individuals. No difference is being 
made between 1st employment and reemployment. The estimation with available data 
is possible. (author's)

DOI: 10.1515/jbnst-1980-0204
PMID: 12264449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Options Policy Pract. 1980;6(1 and 2):2-16.

Dimensions of Philippine population.

University of the Philippines. Population Institute.

PIP: Major findings of a 2 1/2 year research program on Philippine population 
are presented. The population situation is described with respect to fertility, 
mortality, life expectancy, migration, labor force, and family formation. Policy 
recommendations addressing problems in each of these areas are made.

PMID: 12264482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 May:1-7.

Paraguay.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: A brief summary of Paraguay's population policy and demographic indicators 
is presented. Although several censuses and surveys have been undertaken, 
comprehensive population policy has been impeded by the lack of good quality 
demograhpic data. Underregistration of vital events is also a problem. The 
government has no intervention policy regarding fertility and population growth. 
The present rate of growth, approximately 3.3% annually, is seen as satisfactory 
because the country has adequate land resources and untapped agricultural 
potential to handle the present rate of growth. The rate of natural increase is 
estimated at 2.9% and the population size in 1980 was 3,168,000. Fertility 
levels and trends are also seen as satisfactory, however problems of child 
abandonment and high maternal mortality have caused concern. The crude birth 
rate is 36.7/1000. Family planning services have been integrated with maternal 
and child health care programs. Sterilization services are provided by private 
physicians and abortion is legal only to save the life of the mother. Mortality 
and morbidity levels are considered too high; life expectancy at birth is 64.1 
years and the infant mortality rate is 48.6 deaths/1000 live births. The 
government has intervened by increasing primary health care coverage by training 
community selected personnel, by improving sanitation through a national program 
to provide safe water, establishing nutrition education programs, and through 
regional development programs. Selective immigration is encouraged as a means of 
obtaining skilled manpower. Emigration, which had been occurring on a massive 
scale, was not initially discouraged because it was mostly limited to young 
unemployed workers. Recently, efforts have been undertaken to curb emigration 
and encourage the repatriation of Paraguayan nationals. Modification of spatial 
distribution has been a primary objective and is seen as a method of promoting 
balanced development and economic growth. Colonization policies and economic 
opportunities, e.g., construction of hydroelectric projects, have encouraged 
movement to the rural Eastern region of the country. Only 39% of the population 
are urban dwellers and the major urban area over the period from 1962 to 1972, 
had the slowest rate of growth of all Latin American metropolitan centers. The 
current rate is 4.1%. Regional planning is receiving emphasis, although in the 
short run, the intensive population shift to the east will probably accentuate 
regional imbalances.

PMID: 12264520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Popul Educ Asia Pac Newsl Forum. 1982 Jul;(16):20-4.

A synthesis of innovative experiences in population education in Asia and the 
Pacific.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Several innovative experiences in population education in Asian and Pacific 
countries have been designed that enhance its effective contribution to the 
alleviation of population related problems. As a contributor to national 
development goals, population education programs are used to refocus the entire 
educational system to hasten and facilitate macro-level development efforts to 
slow population growth in order to improve the standard of living. Several 
countries have included the programs in their development plans. Population 
education has also contributed to the renovation of school curricula at the 
primary, secondary, and tertiary levels in terms of content and teaching 
methodologies. 3 approaches are used to integrate population education in 
existing disciplines in formal education. The subunit approach prepares teaching 
units which are added to an existing unit in the course syllabus of a subject 
area. This approach is used in the Philippines, Korea, and Thailand. Infusion 
expands existing units in the syllabi to include population related ideas. The 
education content remains the same but relevant new examples are substituted. In 
the 3rd approach, the curricula of selected subjects are overhauled to allow for 
the permeation of relevant ideas. Population education has been integrated into 
several nonformal education programs including literacy and adult education, 
labor training, and agricultural extension. Several approaches are utilized. 
Separate courses are developed and used in ongoing programs such as training for 
field functionaries or out-of-school youth and adults. Infusion is used 
especially in literacy and rural development programs to demonstrate the 
relationship between population issues and quality of life. Core learning kit 
approaches are self-contained, using teaching/learning materials to convey a 
predetermined set of population education concepts to target audiences with 
common interests and needs. 6 training schemes have evolved to train large 
numbers of teachers who are responsible for implementing population education 
programs. Phased face-to-face training by the Ministry of Education concentrates 
on training core key personnel who then train those at a lower level. Phased 
face-to-face training by university/teacher training colleges offer preservice 
courses or inservice programs. Self-learning modules are used by teachers who 
cannot participate in face-to-face programs. Distance teaching used a 
combination of radio programs and workbook exercises or correspondence courses. 
Intercountry or interstate visits involves travelling to other areas where 
advanced population programs exist to learn from the experience of others. 
India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka use mobile teams to conduct training for 
teachers in their schools or in designated centers.

PMID: 12264522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Popul Famille. 1980;(50-51):107-17.

[Calculation of person-years lived. Problems of consistency in computing life 
tables].

[Article in French]

Wunsch G.

PIP: Formulas for deriving probabilities of dying from exposure rates, 
person-years lived between 2 ages, and stationary population numbers, must lead 
to consistent results. No difficulty occurs when using integral calculus. In 
practice, however, events are observed over discrete intervals; in this case 
inconsistent results may be obtained for various life table variables when the 
survivorship function is nonlinear over the age interval x to x plus n. The 
purpose of this note is to establish the necessary conditions in order to obtain 
consistent results when computing probabilities of dying, person-years lived, 
and stationary populations, over discrete age-intervals. (author's)

PMID: 12264557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Draper Fund Rep. 1982 Dec;(11):1-4.

Children in dark times: a year of silent emergency.

Grant JP.

PIP: In 1981 a child's life was worth less than $100. The sum of $100, wisely 
spent on each of the poorest 500 million mothers and young children in the 
world, could have brought improved diets and easier pregnancies, elementary 
education and basic health care, safer sanitation, and more water. In practice 
$100 proved too high a price for the world community to pay with the consequence 
that every 2 seconds of 1981 a child paid that price with his or her life. For 
the children of 1982 the facts of life on earth will not be significantly 
different. Of the 125 million who will be born, another 17 million will be dead 
before their 5th birthday. This has been another year of quiet emergency: 40,000 
children quietly dying each day; 100 million children quietly going to sleep 
hungry at night; 10 million children becoming disabled in mind or body; and 200 
million children age 6-11 quietly watching other children go to school. The 
infant mortality rate of the 3rd world, a sensitive indicator of the well being 
of mothers and children, fell by a steady 4 or 5 points a year during the decade 
of the 1960s but for the past 5 years it has barely moved. The developing 
world's infant mortality is still 10 times higher than that of the 
industrialized countries. Life expectancy is still 15 years less, and 1/3 of its 
6-11 year olds are still out of school. Children need priority in dark times, 
and this statement is an appeal to reason as well as emotion. 90% of the growth 
of the human brain and 50% of the growth of the human body occurs in the 1st 5 
years of life. The corresponding susceptibility of those years should alone 
argue that priority be given to the needs of the young. If parents cannot 
protect and provide, then the responsibility falls to the community of which the 
child is part. In "loud" emergencies, such as starvation in Kampuchea, the world 
community does respond, but in "silent emergencies" the international response 
is more muted. The timeless concern is currently sharpened to a particular edge 
by specific changes in the growth and structure of the world population. 
Acceptance of family planning and a decline in birthrates is closely connected 
with such changes as the improvement of health care, the decline in infant 
mortality, and the spread of education. A setback in progress towards these 
social goals is likely to also be a setback in the trend towards lower 
population growth. To bring about a significant improvement in the lives of 
children by the end of the 20th century will require a marked increase in the 
resources available for the task and in the effectiveness with which they are 
deployed.

PMID: 12264596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Genus. 1979 Jul-Dec;35(3/4):189-202.

A reassessment of the mortality data of the 1965-66 Nigerian rural demographic 
inquiry: new refined estimates of mortality for Nigeria.

Ayeni O.

PIP: The Nigerian Rural Demographic Inquiry conducted by the Federal Office of 
Statistics between 1965 and 1966 is the largest demographic survey ever carried 
out in Nigeria, yet its contribution towards improved knowledge of the country's 
demography has been minimal. There has been widespread criticism of the 
published estimates due to the apparently biased editing of the data. The 
published mortality estimates are examined critically here; the pattern of the 
estimates was found to be irregular, differences between male and female 
estimates appear to be opposite to the actual direction and the overall 
mortality level was found to be too high. Reanalysis of the unedited data, 
applying Brass's new method of correcting death registration, confirmed the bias 
of the published estimates and provided new refined life tables and expectations 
of life at birth for both sexes that agree with comparable estimates from other 
sources. (author's modified)

PMID: 12264618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1981;25(4):5-8.

[Average life expectancy for infants and socioeconomic development].

[Article in Polish]

Kuropka I.

PIP: The author examines the relationship between life expectancy and the level 
of economic development in 23 selected countries around the world. Empirical 
results concerning 12 economic indicators are fitted using a log function

PMID: 12264732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Rev Bras Estat. 1978;39(156):439-94.

[Life tables for the states of Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Barros ET.

PIP: The author uses model life tables to calculate indicators of average 
duration of the economically productive life span of the male population in the 
different regions of Brazil

PMID: 12264742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Jimlar Mutane. 1976 Feb;1(1):27-33.

Consistency in vital statistics.

Vielrose E.

PIP: This paper seeks to show the consistency of vital statistics among African 
countries using a given demographic variable. The method of estimation is based 
on the "West" family of Model Life tables by Coale and Demeny and the assumption 
is that the population of the African countries considered are stable or at 
least quasistable. The paper demonstrates methods of estimating gross 
reproduction rates and crude birth rates from the age composition; similarly, 
the author further demonstrates a method of estimating average life expectancy 
at birth using known values of crude birth rates and death rates given the 
annual growth rate.

PMID: 12264771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. J Am Stat Assoc. 1970 Jun;65(330):678-93. doi:
10.1080/01621459.1970.10481116.

Truncation effect in closed and open birth interval data.

Sheps MC, Menken JA, Ridley JC, Lingner JW.

PIP: A numerical investigation using a flexible simulation model to establish 
interval analysis as an index for changing natality patterns. Such an index 
should reflect parity distribution, the age at which women start reproduction, 
and the spacing of their births. The simulated statistical results illustrate 
the truncation effect that reflects a negative correlation between parity and 
the length of closed and open intervals in a birth or marriage cohort. 
Truncation is related to the duration of marriage at survey, but this duration 
interacts with other assumptions. Holding duration constant does not ensure that 
the data on intervals will reflect postulated changes in the distributions. For 
complete birth orders, this analysis does reflect patterns of child spacing. 
However, it ignores changes in the parity distribution, whether produced by 
deliberate limitation of family size or by the onset of secondary sterility. 
This difficulty is not overcome by life table analysis except under highly 
restrictive assumptions. It is doubtful whether the current emphasis on securing 
such data is justified. Further investigation is needed to provide a better 
basis for the definition and analysis of interval data if they are to be used.

DOI: 10.1080/01621459.1970.10481116
PMID: 12264800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1982 Jul;2(1):1-14.

[Estimation of mortality from census survival rates and consequent estimates of 
birth and death rates: 1975-1980 in Korea case].

[Article in Korean]

Kwon HY, Kim KS.

PIP: The rate of natural increase in population between the census in 1975 and 
1980 is calculated with total population by sex. An abridged life table, based 
on the Coale and Demeny life table model, is used. The number of deaths from 
this life table is calculated by using age specific death rate. According to 
this number, each crude death rate for both sexes is calculated. The crude birth 
rate calculation is the difference between the rate of natural increase in 
population and the crude death rate. Each computed rate is as follows: natural 
increase rate: 1.98% (male), 1.83% (female), 1.91% (total); crude death rate: 
.547% (male), .546% (female), .547% (total); crude birth rate: 2.535% (male), 
2.340% (female), 2.448% (total). In evaluating the crude death rate and crude 
birth rate result, the crude death rate is lower than expected. Crude death rate 
from the whole country fertility survey taken in 1974 is 7/1000 people. 
According to the whole country fertility survey data taken in 1976, the infant 
mortality rate in 1974 and 1975 are at 26% and 27.5% respectively, which is 
considered low. This low death rate in recent times is due to the decrease in 
the infant mortality rate and the decrease in death of the aged population. 
Calculated crude birth rate is 25.6/1000 persons for males, and 24/1000 for 
females. After the whole country fertility survey conducted in 1976, the crude 
birth rate is estimated at 24/1000 persons and crude birth rate in 1980 was 
estimated at 23.4 persons. Results are in line with the calculations of the 
Third Social Economic Development 5-year plan which was drafted by working staff 
in the population sector including the population professionals in the Bureau of 
Statistics of the Economic Planning Board.

PMID: 12264833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1982 Jul;2(1):1-14.

[Estimation of mortality from census survival rates and consequent estimates of 
birth and death rates: 1975-1980 case of Korea].

[Article in Korean]

Kwon H, Kim K.

PIP: The authors first calculate the rate of natural increase of the population 
of the Republic of Korea using 1975 and 1980 census data. They then develop an 
abridged life table using the model life tables of Coale and Demeny, calculate 
the number of deaths from these tables using age-specific mortality rates, and 
deduce crude birth and death rates for Korea. The results are compared with 
mortality data from the national fertility survey of 1976, and the differences 
between the two sources are analyzed. Finally, the authors suggest a method for 
reconciling the data and produce estimates of crude birth and death rates that 
are close to those currently included in the national development planning 
process.

PMID: 12264834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Popul Bull UN. 1982;(14):1-16.

A reassessment of world population trends.

Coale AJ.

This reassessment is limited to observations concerning trends in mortality and 
fertility and concerning longrun prospects for population growth. Recorded 
changes in mortality are compared with 3 projections made many years ago. 
Projections of European mortality made in 1941-42 understated by a wide margin 
the actual increase in expectation of life because of unforeseen technological 
changes in the prevention and cure of fatal disease. On the other hand, a 
projection made in 1955 for India, foreseeing a rapid rise in the 1950s and 
slower progress later on because of the exhaustion of the easier gains, appears 
to have been accurate and also to depict the prospects in other populations of 
relatively high mortality and low income. A different projection of life 
expectancy in Mexico was also quite close to actual changes in Mexican 
mortality; it was based on a universal curve constructed to represent how life 
expectancy rises, increasing ever more slowly as it approaches an upper limit. 
This curve (1 for each sex), constructed for projection of Mexican mortality, is 
employed as a standard of comparison for mortality changes in many countries. A 
number have followed the standard for females very closely for more than 3 
decades; in developed countries, male life expectancy has generally fallen short 
of the standard. The almost universal low fertility in developed countries 
contrasts with the great diversity of levels and trends of fertility in 
developing countries, some of which retain undiminished high fertility and 
others of which have recently attained rates of childbearing as low as in the 
developed areas. Instances of surprisingly little change and surprisingly rapid 
change in fertility are described. In the future, growth of populations of 
developed countries will probably be slight; the future rate of increase in the 
developing areas depends on the unpredictable timing and pace of childbearing 
reduction in populations where fertility remains high. In the long run, world 
population growth may resume its typical pattern of moderate growth interrupted 
by catastrophic setbacks.

PMID: 12264845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Popul Bull UN. 1982;(14):17-30.

Long-range global population projections, as assessed in 1980.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

UN medium range projections prepared in the 1980 assessment projected the 
population of individual countries up to the year 2025. The long range 
projections discussed here were prepared by projecting the population of 8 major 
world regions from 2025-2100. The purpose of the projection was to observe the 
implications of the changes from the 1978 assessment made in the 1980 medium 
range projections on the long range projections of the world's populations. As 
in previous projections, high, medium, and low variants were prepared in which 
fertility is assumed to be constant at the replacement level but at different 
times in the future. In addition, these projections contain 2 variants not 
previously prepared--namely, the growth and decline variants, in which the 
ultimate net reproduction rate is 1.05 and 0.95, respectively. In all the 
variants, expectation of life at birth is assumed to reach 75 years for males 
and 80 for females. According to the current medium variant projection, the 
earth's population will become stationary after 2095 at 10.2 billion persons, 
compared with a total of 10.5 billion projected in the 1978 assessment. The 
lower projection is largely attributable to a recent decline in the growth rate 
of several countries in South Asia which was greater than previously assumed. 
When the world population becomes stationary, both crude birth and death rates 
would be about 13/1000. In the decline variant, total population would peak at 
7.7 billion in 2055, then decline gradually to 7.2 billion in 2100. The total 
population as projected by the growth variant would equal 14.9 billion in 2100 
and would still be growing slowly. Between 1980 and 2050, 95% of the world's 
growth will occur in the currently less developed regions. Their share of total 
population will increase from 75-85% during that period. The age structure in 
all regions is expected to converge to 1 in which the median age is 39 years, 
the proportion both below age 15 and above age 64 is about 19% each, and the 
dependency ratio is about 60. A precise degree of accuracy cannot be specified, 
but the argument is made that the actual future population of the world is very 
likely to fall within the range of the projection variants and probably not far 
from the medium variant.

PMID: 12264846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Popul Bull UN. 1982;(14):31-53.

Infant mortality: world estimates and projections, 1950-2025.

United Nations. Secretariat.

Although the infant mortality rate is considered 1 of the preferred indicators 
for describing both demographic conditions and the overall and social economic 
well-being of a country, comparable and consistent estimates and projections of 
infant mortality for all countries of the world have been lacking. In an attempt 
to improve this situation, the UN Population Division, with the support and 
encouragement of the UN Children's Fund and the assistance of the World Health 
Organization and the UN regional commissions, has recently completed a 
comprehensive project which provides estimates and projections of infant 
mortality for all world countries for the period 1950-2025. This article reviews 
the estimates and projections produced by this project. The various sources and 
the quality of the data, as well as the methods employed to estimate current and 
past levels of infant mortality and to project future trends, are reviewed and 
evaluated. The article concludes with a discussion of the results vis-a-vis the 
goals set for infant mortality by the World Population Plan of Action and the 
International Development Strategy for the 3rd UN Development Decade.

PIP: The results of a project carried out by the U.N. Population Division to 
provide worldwide estimates and projections of infant mortality for each 
five-year period from 1950 to 2025 are reviewed. The methods and sources used 
are also described, and the quality of the data is assessed. The estimates and 
projections are presented for the world as a whole, developed and developing 
countries, 8 major areas, 24 regions, and 156 individual countries or groups of 
countries.

PMID: 12264848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Popul Bull UN. 1982;(14):54-65.

Construction of the new United Nations model life table system.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

Previous systems of model life tables were based on empirical data from the now 
developed countries (the Coale and Demeny models) or, when patterns from less 
developed countries were included (the original UN set and the Lederman set), 
included data of poor or unknown quality. However, with the advent of new 
demographic techniques of data evaluation and of improved survey, census, and 
vital registration systems, it has become possible to construct a new model life 
table system based on reliable data from less developed countries and hence more 
applicable to demographic analysis within that milieu. The new UN model life 
tables are based on carefully evaluated age-sex specific mortality data found in 
developing countries. Analysis of these data indicated 4 major age patterns of 
mortality. These patterns have been labelled the Latin American pattern, the 
Chilean pattern, the South Asian pattern, and the Far Eastern pattern, according 
to the geographical region predominant in each pattern. An overall average 
pattern, labelled the general pattern, has also been constructed. Along with the 
model life tables themselves, the UN is also producing models of sex differences 
in life expectancy, single-year mortality, and stable populations. A manual of 
computer programs to facilitate use of these models is also being prepared.

PMID: 12264849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Res Popul Econ. 1982;4:173-216.

Population, internal migration, and economic growth: an empirical analysis.

Moreland RS.

PIP: The role of population growth in the development process has received 
increasing attention during the last 15 years, as manifested in the literature 
in 3 broad categories. In the 1st category, the effects of rapid population 
growth on the growth of income have been studied with the use of simulation 
models, which sometimes include endogenous population growth. The 2nd category 
of the literature is concerned with theoretical and empirical studies of the 
economic determinants of various demographic rates--most usually fertility. 
Internal migration and dualism is the 3rd population development category to 
recieve attention. An attempt is made to synthesize developments in these 3 
categories by estimating from a consistent set of data a 2 sector economic 
demographic model in which the major demographic rates are endogenous. Due to 
the fact that the interactions between economic and demographic variables are 
nonlinear and complex, the indirect effects of changes in a particular variable 
may depend upon the balance of numerical coefficients. For this reason it was 
felt that the model should be empirically grounded. A brief overview of the 
model is provided, and the model is compared to some similar existing models. 
Estimation of the model's 9 behavior equations is discussed, followed by a "base 
run" simulation of a developing country "stereotype" and a report of a number of 
policy experiments. The relatively new field of economic determinants of 
demographic variables was drawn upon in estimating equations to endogenize 
demographic phenomena that are frequently left exogenous in simulation models. 
The fertility and labor force participation rate functions are fairly standard, 
but a step beyong existing literature was taken in the life expectancy and 
intersectorial migration equations. On the economic side, sectoral savings 
functions were estimated, and it was found that the marginal propensity to save 
is lower in agriculture than in nonagriculture. Testing to see the effect of a 
population's age structure on savings rather than assuming a particular 
direction as Coale-Hoover and Simon do in their models, it was found that a 
higher proportion of children compete with savings in agriculture but complement 
savings in industrial areas. This was consistent with the economic value of 
children in agricultural and nonagricultural regions of less developed 
countries. The estimated production functions showed that marginal products of 
labor were considerably higher in agriculture than in nonagriculture. As with 
other simulation models, the effect of reducing fertility was to accelerate 
income growth. Reductions in rural fertility were more equitable and raised the 
overall level of per capita income more than similar efforts directed to urban 
areas only.

PMID: 12264901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1982;2(2):145-64.

The population projections for the Republic of Korea: 1980-2000.

Chung Y.

PIP: This study provides a realistic population projection for the Republic of 
Korea for 1980 to 2000, by using the most recent census data. The projections 
are done by using the component method. The adjusted age and sex distribution of 
the population as of 1 July 1980, is taken as the base population. While only 1 
assumption for mortality is made, 3 sets of fertility assumptions are used, 
producing 3 projections: high, medium and low. The tempos of decline for the age 
specific fertility rates (ASFR) are estimated separately for each specific 
period of 5 year intervals. For ascertaining the fertility assumptions, past 
trends of fertility for Korea have been studied and compared with those of other 
East Asian countries under Chinese cultural influence: Taiwan and Hong Kong. 
Their ASFR patterns of decline during 1960 to 1974 follow the patterns of Japan 
for 1947 to 1961. The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) for Korea has fallen for the 
last 20 years and could reach a level of 2 in the early 1980s if the trend 
continues. The future population of Korea is likely to grow by 32.5% under 
'low', 35.3% under 'medium', and 50.7% under 'high' projection schemes within 
the 20 year period from 1980 to 2000. The death rate will decline from 7/1000 in 
1974 to roughly 5.5/1000 in 1980-85, remaining at that level until 2000. The 
young dependency ratio has decreased in the low and medium fertility assumption 
and has increased 1.9 under the high assumption. Korea is facing the crisis of 
steep population growth. The density of population will grow from 404/square km 
to 536 in 2000, even under the assumption of low projections with a maximum 
decline in fertility.

PMID: 12264927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1982;2(2):165-78.

Complete life tables for Korea in 1970's.

Lee HY.

PIP: Abridged life tables for 1970 and 1978-79 have been converted into complete 
life tables for a Korean demographic analysis. Life tables show the average 
number of years a new born child will live, assuming there is no mortaltiy rate 
change. At the same time it shows the mortality level, useful for comparisons 
with other countries. In addition to a demographic analysis, a life table can be 
used to calculate life insurance rates, and for research on society and health. 
All available life tables constructed for 1906 through 1978-1979 are abridged. 
For demographic analysis, complete tables are necessary. Table conversion 
utilizes the minimized 5th difference ordinary interpolation formula to estimate 
the intermediate values of the numbers of survivors at specific age; conversions 
are made at 5 year intervals from age 5 to 80 and interpolation coefficients are 
calculated for 1st, middle and last age groups. Using this formula, 4 complete 
life tables are given for Korean males and females from age 0 to 80.

PMID: 12264928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 Sep:1-7.

Singapore.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Singapore is directed to the following: 
history of the country's demographic situation; government's overall approach to 
population problems; population data systems and development planning; 
institutional arrangements for the integration of population within development 
planning; government's view of the importance of population policy in achieving 
development objectives; population size, growth and natural increase; morbidity 
and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. The 
Republic of Singapore has experienced high population growth rates for some 
time, with its population of 1.02 million in 1950 increasing to an estimated 
2.39 million in 1980. In recent years the rate has declined significantly, 
decreasing from nearly 5% per year in the early 1950s to 2.8 in 1960-65 and 1.5 
in 1970-75. At the present growth rate of about 1.2% per annum, and anticipating 
the further declines that have been projected for 1995-2000, the population of 
Singapore is expected to reach about 2.97 million by the end of this century. 
The government considers the stabilization of the country's population to be 1 
of its important objectives. In 1961 population growth was recognized as a 
serious problem. Singapore has a long history of census taking, having recently 
conducted its 11th decennial census. Because of the rapid decline in fertility 
in recent years, the government perceives the nation's current rates of natural 
increase and fertility as satisfactory, neither constraining development nor 
inhibiting economic growth. Yet, the government has established as a social norm 
a goal of a 2 child family and supports policies that discourage early marriage 
and childbearing at very young ages. The government maintains that Singapore's 
current rate of population growth is satisfactory, which is a recent change of 
position that is based on the rapid decline in fertility in the 1960s and 1970s. 
The crude death rate declined from about 10.6/1000 in 1950-55 to 7.1 in 1960-65 
and to 5.1 in both 1970-75 and 1975-80, according to UN estimates. The average 
life expectancy at birth for both sexes has been improving. To reduce the need 
for high cost hospital services, the government has recently given more 
attention to promotive and preventive medicine. The crude birthrate, which was 
estimated to be around 44 births/1000 in 1950-55, has declined in the past 
several decades, decreasing to 17.2/1000 in 1975-80 according to UN estimates. 
The government regards the current level of fertility as satisfactory and has 
implemented incentive and disincentive schemes to maintain low rates. The 
government considers levels and trends of immigration to be not significant and 
satisfactory. The government regards the spatial distribution of the population 
to be appropriate and has no policies of intervention concerning either internal 
migration or the rural and urban configuration of settlement.

PMID: 12264932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 Oct:1-7.

Mozambique.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Mozambique is on the following: history of the 
demographic situation; the government's overall approach to population problems; 
population data systems and development planning; institutional arrangements for 
the integration of population within development planning; the government's view 
of the importance of population policy in achieving development objectives; 
population size, growth, and natural increase; morbidity and mortality; 
fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. According to the 
1970 general census, Mozambique's population totaled 8.2 million with an 
estimated annual rate of natural increase of 2.2%. According to the UN 
Population Division, the crude birthrate for the 1975-80 period was estimated at 
44.8/1000 population and the crude death rate at 19.0/1000; life expectancy at 
birth was estimated at 46 years for both sexes. In 1974 Mozambique achieved 
independence. From the time of Independence, the government planners have 
emphasized the reconstruction of agriculture and associated elements of the 
rural economy. In later stages, emphasis is to be given to associated secondary 
industries and to construction of heavy industry. Although the government is not 
known to have expressed a policy with regard to the demographic situation as a 
whole, it has taken a position concerning some aspects of spatial distribution 
and emigration. The government has also formulated and implemented certain 
health policies that emphasize maternal and child health, family planning, and 
the status of women. These policies have been formulated as components of social 
policy. There are no institutions specifically established to integrate 
population with development planning. The government considers levels and trends 
of population growth to be satisfactory because the country's natural resources 
are very large given the current population. The UN estimates the level of 
infant mortality for 1980-85 to be high at 110 deaths/1000 live births. The 
government considers the levels and trends of morbidity and mortality to be 
unacceptable because they are too high and are among the most serious problems 
confronting the country. The government has launched an enthusiastic campaign to 
eliminate unhygienic traditions, giving priority to preventive medicine in line 
with the current capacity and facilities of the country. In 1980 the UN 
estimated the gross and net reproduction rates as 3.0 and 2.1 respectively for 
the 1975-80 period, the total fertility rate as 6.1, and a general fertility 
rate of 196/1000 women. The government considers the levels and trends of 
fertility to be satisfactory in relation to population growth, though it may 
consider them somewhat unsatisfactory in relation to family well-being. The 
government considers present levels and trends of emigration to be not 
significant and satisfactory and its present population distribution as 
appropriate.

PMID: 12264933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Genus. 1981 Jul-Dec;37(3-4):165-77.

Evaluation of widowhood data in Indian censuses: a life table investigation.

Malaker C.

PMID: 12264937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Soc Stat Paris. 1981;122(3):118-42.

[Expectation of life at birth: sex differentials, trends, limits].

[Article in French]

Aubenque M, Damiani P.

PIP: Using information available at the end of 1979, the authors present and 
analyze data on expectation of life at birth in 119 countries. Differences 
between developing and developed countries, trends over time, sex differentials, 
and limits on life expectancy are examined. The analysis reveals limits of 
approximately 73 years for men and 80 for women in the most developed countries. 
In France, which displays excessive male mortality, expectation of life 
increases more slowly for men. The authors attribute these sex differentials 
both to biological factors and to behavioral factors and ways of life.

PMID: 12264974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1981 Jan;(157):95-102.

[The thirty-third abridged life tables: 1978-1979].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PMID: 12264984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Ethiop J Dev Res. 1979 Oct;3(2):65-91.

Demographic characteristics of the rural population of Ethiopia.

Bariagaber H.

"In the field of population studies, Ethiopia has neither carried out even a 
single population census nor established a vital statistics registration system. 
But with the available scanty and defective data, attempts are made here to 
examine the demographic situation of rural Ethiopia. Since only about 13% of the 
total population of the country are estimated to reside in agglomerations of 
2,000 and above, Ethiopia is predominantly rural. According to the estimates of 
the vital rates, Ethiopia has been experiencing high levels of fertility and 
mortality conditions. "The low average life expectancy at birth, together with 
the high birth and death rates can indicate the low level of living which has 
been prevalent in the country."

excerpt

PMID: 12264990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
