

712. Cienc Cult. 1980 Sep;32(9):1,155-76.

[The population of Latin America from 1900 to 1975].

[Article in Portuguese]

Marcilio ML.

PIP: Using census data and estimates, the author examines population growth in 
Latin America during the twentieth century. Retrospective comparisons among 
countries or larger areas reveal differences in population trends by country or 
region as well as interrelationships with socioeconomic factors. Natality, 
mortality, natural increase, internal migration, life expectancy, spatial 
distribution, and urbanization are considered. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12264993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Popul Index. 1982 Summer;48(2):217-59.

Age structure, growth, attrition and accession: A new synthesis.

Preston SH, Coale AJ.

PIP: This paper shows that each equation describing relationships among 
demographic parameters in a stable population is a special case of a similar and 
equally simple equation that applies to any closed population and demonstrates 
some implications of these new equations for demographic theory and practice. 
Much of formal demography deals with functions that pertain to individuals 
passing through life, or to a stationary population in which births of 
individuals are evenly distributed over time. These functions include life 
expectancy, probabilities of survival, net and gross reproduction rates, 
expected years spent in various states and the probability that certain events 
will occur in the course of life. The stable population model permits the 
translation of population structure or processes in a more general type of 
population, with constant growth rates, back into equivalent populations for a 
stationary population. The method for translation developed in this paper, 
requiring only a set of age-specific growth rates is even more general, applying 
to any population. Age specific growth rates may also be useful for performing 
reverse translations, between a population's life table and its birth rate or 
its age distribution. Tables of numbers of females by single years of age in 
Sweden are used to illustrate applications. Tables summarize the basic relations 
among certain functions in a stationary population, a stable population and any 
population. Applications of new equations, particularly to demographic 
estimation of mortality, fertility and migration, from incomplete data, are 
described. Some other applications include; the 2 sex problem, increment 
decrement tables, convergence of population to its stable form, and cyclical 
changes in vital rates. Stable population models will continue to demonstrate 
long term implications of changes in mortality and fertility. However, in 
demographic estimation and measurement, new procedures will support most of 
those based on stable assumptions.

PMID: 12265035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Arch Iatr Hetaireon. 1981;7(4):591-5.

[The aging components of the Greek population].

[Article in Greek, Modern]

Katsougiannopoulos Vch.

PIP: This paper is concerned with demographic aging in Greece. The main 
components of the aging process, including changes in natality, mortality, life 
expectancy, and dependency ratios, are reviewed. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1981 Aug;26(8):12-6.

[Life expectancy tables for the economically active population in Poland in 
1978].

[Article in Polish]

Aleksinska J.

PMID: 12265095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Demografie. 1981;23(4):301-8.

[Population mortality in medium elevation range districts in the Czech Socialist 
Republic].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PIP: The author attempts to determine the validity of the hypothesis that the 
life expectancy of individuals living at higher elevations is greater than that 
of persons living at lower ranges. Abbreviated 1975 life tables for the Czech 
Socialist Republic are analyzed by elevation of district. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12265150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Artha Vijnana. 1979 Mar;21(1):1-12. doi:
10.21648/arthavij/1979/v21/i1/116557.

Extrapolation of IUD retention rates: an evaluation of some models.

Rao KA, Sholapurkar MV.

PIP: Contraceptive retention rates play a vital role in estimating the number of 
births averted. Generally, the data based on follow-up studies are of a short 
duration of 1 or 2 years, necessitating the use of the continuation curves for 
extrapolating the retention rates. The most widely used curve for extrapolating 
the IUD retention rates is negative exponential of Mauldin et al. Modified 
versions of the above curve and other alternative curves have also been 
proposed. An attempt is made in this discussion to evaluate precited curves so 
as to find a suitable method of extrapolation for Indian conditions, i.e., to 
determine a method which would give better results for a short span of 5-6 years 
and for which estimates of the parameters could be obtained over desk 
calculators. The evaluation is carried out in 2 stages. At the 1st instance, 
assuming that the retention rates are available only for a period of 24 months. 
Extrapolation is done for over a period of 60 months and the results thus 
obtained are compared with actual life table values. Robustness of these curves 
are tested by fitting them using only a segment of the data, i.e., using data 
from 13-24 months. Estimated values of the retention rates for the retrospective 
and prospective periods are then computed and compared with actual life table 
values. The curve which has got the minimal sum of squares of the deviations is 
considered as the best. The curves that are considered for evaluation are 
negative exponential curve, mixture of 2 exponentials, modified negative 
exponential, and modified type 3 exponential. The data for the analysis was 
taken from a retrospective survey conducted by the Population Center, Bangalore. 
Modified type 3 exponential gives a better fit, compared to single and the 
modified exponential functions. There is some evidence to show that the total 
curve of cumulative retention rates is a mixture of 2 or more curves. The 
analysis reveals that in cases where single exponential must be resorted to, it 
is advisable to use the later part of the available data, as the extrapolation 
based on it minimizes the underestimation in the later months.

DOI: 10.21648/arthavij/1979/v21/i1/116557
PMID: 12265164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Adm Dev. 1980 Jan;14:1-17.

Further evidence on family change in Papua New Guinea.

Mcdevitt TM.

PIP: This paper attempts to elaborate on previous papers on family change in 
postwar urban Papua New Guinea and to point out the implications of the emerging 
patterns as they relate to demands likely to be made on existing government 
programs in future years. There has been rapid growth of an educated, urban 
resident population, with the use of wages and cash much more prevalent than 
before. There is some attenuation of family ties with more emphasis on the 
nuclear family, which is likely to be smaller than the traditional, large 
family. In rural areas people prefer large families. There continues to be use 
of contraception and family planning, an extension of traditional means of 
controlling reproductive behavior. The impact of social implications of weakened 
family ties on government programs is marginal. It is clear, however, that there 
is likely to be substantial growth in the urban population (3.8%/year based on 
1971 mortality levels) because of rapid declines in death rates. This will make 
it more difficult for government to provide health care, education and 
employment for the population, especially young people. Tables give statistics 
on 1) family type by education for male heads of households, 2) preference of 
male respondents for a large or small family, 3) desired number of children by 
education, male and female respondents, 4) attitudes toward family limitation by 
education, male respondents, 5) use of family planning by education, female 
respondents, and 6) population characteristics implied by 1971 levels of 
fertility and mortality.

PMID: 12265175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Vopr Ekon. 1981 Dec;(12):65-72.

[The role of public health in the reproduction of labor resources].

[Article in Russian]

Korchagin VP.

PIP: The decline in mortality that occurred in the USSR up to 1960 is first 
described. The reasons why this decline has not continued in recent years and 
why mortality has even increased in certain age groups are then considered. The 
solution to the problem of increasing mortality is sought in an improvement in 
Soviet health services in order to increase life expectancy in general and the 
length of economically active life in particular.

PMID: 12265212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Ruch Praw Ekon Socjol. 1981;43(3):151-71.

[Some standard features of the family life cycle].

[Article in Polish]

Markowska D.

PIP: Some demographic aspects of the family life cycle in contemporary Poland 
are considered in this paper. The author notes that early marriage, early 
parenthood, and smaller family size, coupled with increasing longevity, have 
resulted in an average length of marriage of around 50 years. Of these 50 years, 
half are spent in the parenthood phase and half in the post-parenthood phase. 
The progressively younger ages of parents, grandparents, and great-grandparents 
are noted, and the implications for family roles are discussed. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Popul Famille. 1981;(52):153-66.

Working life tables for females in Canada, 1971.

Krishnan P, Penning M, Kurian L.

PIP: This paper attempts to construct some working life tables (WLTs) for 
females in Canada, 1971. Attention is directed to methodological problems in 
female WLT construction, a suggested methodology, and loss due to mortality. The 
working life expectancy (WLE), which refers to the average number of years that 
a person is likely to spend in the labor force during his/her lifetime, reveals 
the extent of his/her contribution to the national economy. Although working 
life tables have been prepared for Canadian males, no attempt has been made 
previously to develop a WLT for the Canadian females. In some countries, such as 
Canada, the long census questionnaire collects additional pieces of information 
on labor force participation (LFP), even though the coverage is only on a part 
(but sizable) of the population. It is suggested that the information on "weeks 
worked" (Canadian Census wording) can be used to smooth out the bimodality 
problem in the female LFP. If a working woman works for an entire year, i.e., 52 
weeks inclusive of paid holidays and vacation, she is said to contribute 1 woman 
year of working (or economically active) life to the economy. On the basis of 
this concept of a woman year of working life, all females who are working full 
time, part time, and not working can be considered in regard to their respective 
contributions of working lives to the national economy. An age limit is not 
indicated in the definition. The number of hours worked per day cumulated for 
the year and scaled down to the base of 1 woman year of working life would make 
the analysis more realistic. If the census data on weeks worked are tabulated by 
single years of age, or age groups for the female population, the average number 
of weeks worked specific for the various age categories can be computed. Those 
who are unemployed are taken as contributing zero weeks worked in the 
computation of the mean. Then the age specific participation rate is obtained as 
the percent of the average number of weeks worked by females in a given age 
group to the total number of weeks in a year. From these age specific rates, the 
probabilities of LFP at an age interval is worked out by averaging 2 consecutive 
age specific rates. Employing the notion of woman years of working life and 
utilizing the average number of weeks worked from the 1971 Census of Canada PUST 
data, a set of age specific participation rates for the Canadian females was 
developed. With these participation rates, the WLT for the Canadian females is 
constructed. The WLE for a female in Canada in 1971 attains a maximum of 38.7 
years at age 15 and declines with increases in age. A comparison with the males 
showed that the female WLE was higher in the latter and lower in the early years 
of life.

PMID: 12265250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Popul Famille. 1981;(53):1-18.

[Life and death in the Belgian population following the generation of 1886: a 
comparison of some results taken from period and cohort life tables].

[Article in French]

Veys D.

PIP: Some comparative analyses of mortality changes in Belgium are presented 
using period and cohort life table techniques. The mortality of the cohort born 
in 1886 is compared with period mortality for 1892 and 1977. The period life 
tables indicate the reductions in mortality that have occurred, and the cohort 
life tables are used to illustrate the mortality and survival experiences of the 
group studied. A significant increase in both male and female life expectancy is 
clearly shown, and the cohort analysis indicates the importance of the 
development of public health services since the beginning of the twentieth 
century.

PMID: 12265282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Bol Demogr. 1981 Jul-Sep;12(3):39-79.

[Fertility and development in Brazil (analyses of trends and principal 
components)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Costa MA.

PIP: The relationship between fertility and socioeconomic development in Brazil 
during the 1960s is examined using trajectory techniques and component analyses. 
Trends in the following socioeconomic factors are examined for 20 states: degree 
of urbanization, average city size, average life span, per capita income, 
industrial income, and males and females aged 20-54 with less than 5 years of 
schooling and with less than 10 years of schooling.

PMID: 12265307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Cah Que Demogr. 1982 Aug;11(2):253-74.

[Variations in life expectancy by different health statuses: components, 
methods, and results for Quebec, 1978].

[Article in French]

Wilkins R.

PIP: A synthetic index of health status is presented that takes into account 
both mortality and morbidity in a given population. The data are for 1978 and 
are taken from the Health Survey of Canada and hospital and clinic records. The 
results indicate that for those with major and minor handicaps, life expectancy 
is 9 years less for males and 14 years less for females than for the population 
as a whole.

PMID: 12265319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Maandstat Bevolking. 1983 Mar;31(3):18-49.

[Life tables for the provinces and the Netherlands derived from observations 
during the period 1976-1980].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Life tables for the Netherlands are calculated for the 11 provinces and for 
the country as a whole for the period 1976-1980. Data are presented on 
age-specific mortality, survivorship by sex, and life expectancy by sex for 
five-year cohorts based on various official sources, including the central and 
municipal population registers. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Maandstat Bevolking. 1982 Mar;30(3):12-23.

[Crude mortality quotients for the Netherlands, 1980].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Life tables for the Netherlands for 1980 are presented by sex. Improvements 
in life expectancy since 1956 are noted. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Contracept Fertil Sex (Paris). 1983 Jul-Aug;11(7-8):911-4.

[Age and fertility (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Jouannet P.

PIP: Increased life expectancy among human populations has been accompanied by 
little change in the reproductive age span, and the age groups of highest 
fertility are actually contracting. According to Leridon, in 18th century France 
30% of births were to women 35 and over, compared to 18.5% in the early 20th 
century, 14% in 1964, and 8% in 1975. Among evidence of declining fecundity with 
age, the waiting time to conception after stopping contraception is 12.6 +or- 21 
months after 35, while it is only 3.6 +or- 4.8 months for those aged 20-24. 
Risks of stillbirth and perinatal mortality are elevated in the years preceding 
menopause, and the proportion of children with chromosomal anomalies is higher 
particularly after 40. Study of the true influence of age on fecundity requires 
a population not using contraception and attempting to conceive as frequently as 
possible, such as the North American Hutterites, among whom a slow and 
progressive fecundity decline is apparent beginning at 20-25 years and becoming 
more rapid after age 40. 1/3 of women aged 39 and 1/10 of those aged 46 give 
birth each year. A demographic study of the early 20th century Irish population 
indicated that male fecundity does not begin to decline until 40 or 45 years, 
after which the decline is gradual. An 11-center study of results of artificial 
insemination in France indicates that conceptions decline markedly after 35. It 
is probable that the decline in female fecundity is due less to an alteration in 
the quality of the ova than to modifications in the uterine environment, perhaps 
as a result of an inadequate nutritional or hormonal environment. In 1 study of 
men aged 60 or over, 61% were found to produce sperm, and in another study 48% 
of subjects continued to produce sperm in their 8th decade. The decline in male 
fecundity appears to be associated with a diminution in the proportion of motile 
and normal sperm, perhaps explained by modifications at the level of the 
seminiferal epithelium. Vascular changes could also explain the declining number 
of volume and Leydig cells that occurs with age.

PMID: 12265356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J South Asian Middle East Stud. 1982 Winter;6(2):48-70.

Muslim fertility: recent trends and future outlook.

Nagi MH, Stockwell EG.

PIP: This article examines the current fertility situation in 33 Muslim 
countries and discusses the likelihood and possible determinants of a sustained 
fertility decline. 3 basic sets of data from diverse sources were utilized: 
measures of fertility, indicators of general socioeconomic conditions, and 
measures of the strength of family planning programs. Crude birthrates in the 33 
countries revealed that Muslim fertility was and continues to be very high. In 
1960 all 33 countries except Lebanon and Turkey had crude birthrates of 45 or 
more/1000 and 10 had birth rates of 50 or more. Between 1960-75, most countries 
experienced fertility declines; however, in 1978-79 crude birthrates of the 33 
countries were generally still far higher than those of non-Muslim countries in 
the same regions. A fairly wide range of variation is now found in the crude 
birthrates of Islamic countries. In 1978-79, crude birthrates ranged from 31-51, 
and 15 countries had rates lower than 45/1000. Examination of total fertility 
rates reinforces the conclusion that Muslim fertility is very high but variable 
in different countries. A table showing the rank position of 29 Muslim countries 
according to their scores on a composite index of socioeconomic development 
revealed that there was no clear association between overall index scores and 
crude birthrate declines. Countries that have experienced relatively large 
declines in fertility since the early 1960s were scattered up and down the 
continuum, and some of the highest ranked countries have experienced little 
change in their high fertility levels in the past 20 years. A generally similar 
conclusion is supported by examination of 7 specific socioeconomic measures of 
literacy, school enrollment, life expectancy, infant mortality rate, 
nonagricultural employment, per capita gross national product, and urbanization. 
Application of Mauldin and Berelson's family planning program efforts scale 
demonstrates the importance of family planning efforts in the Islamic world. 
Countries with no family planning program experienced total fertility rate 
declines averaging 3% for 1968-70, those with weak programs averaged 6% 
declines, but those with moderate programs averaged 18% declines. The Muslim 
countries do not strongly support the modernization hypothesis of fertility 
decline, but indicate the importance of government sponsored family planning 
programs.

PMID: 12265462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1982 Oct;(164):19-36.

[Causes of death and age patterns of mortality in Japan since 1950].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: Trends in mortality in Japan since 1950 are analyzed. The relationship 
between changes in the structure of causes of death and the level of overall 
mortality is examined using a variety of demographic techniques. Changes in the 
crude death rate, the age-standardized death rate, and life expectancy at birth 
are reviewed, and variations in mortality resulting from changes in the age 
structure of the population are considered. Changes in the causes of death by 
sex are also examined over time. It is noted that between 1950 and 1965, major 
reductions were made in mortality from diseases caused by microorganisms; 
between 1965 and 1980, the major reductions were in mortality from 
cerebrovascular diseases and other diseases not caused by microorganisms.

PMID: 12265472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1983 Mar;29(3):29-32.

[The evolution of life expectancy in the capital city of Warsaw in 1931-1980].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M.

PIP: The author presents estimates of life expectancy in Warsaw, Poland, by age 
and sex for the period 1931-1980. The estimates involve modifications of 
previously calculated life tables for 1931 to ensure greater compatibility with 
more recent estimates.

PMID: 12265492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Maandstat Bevolking. 1983 Jul;31(7):24-35.

[Crude mortality quotients for the Netherlands, 1981].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: An analysis of mortality trends in the Netherlands in 1981 is presented 
based on official data. It is noted that, in comparison with the period 
1976-1980, male life expectancy has improved for all five age groups 
distinguished. This improvement is also valid for females, except for ages 1-5 
and 50-55. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Genus. 1982 Jan-Jun;38(1-2):159-76.

[Some questions concerning the demography of Somalia].

[Article in Italian]

Lombardo E.

PIP: The available demographic data for Somalia are reviewed, and summary life 
tables by sex are constructed. Consideration is given to mortality, age 
distribution, and fertility. The lack of adequate demographic data is noted. 
(summary in ENG, FRE)

PMID: 12265548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Genus. 1982 Jan-Jun;38(1-2):97-117.

Marital status life table for Australian women, 1971.

Krishnamoorthy S.

"In this paper the mathematical principles behind the construction of multistate 
life tables are presented. [They are] then applied to study the patterns of 
first marriage, widowhood, divorce and remarriage of the Australian female 
population for the year 1971." Comparisons are also made with data for the 
United States in 1970. The author finds that "the first marriage patterns of 
both countries are very similar. But the divorce pattern is different. Though 
the probability that a marriage will end in a divorce is much lower in Australia 
than in the United States, the proportion of divorcees remarrying is only 
slightly lower in Australia.... Expected duration of a marriage is about 10.5 
years longer in Australia than in the United States." (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12265553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Hum Relat. 1983 Feb;36(2):123-33. doi: 10.1177/001872678303600203.

Marital relationships as a cause of death: an analysis of occupational mortality 
and the hidden consequences of marriage--some U.K. data.

Fletcher BC.

PIP: The relationship between a married woman's life expectancy and the 
occupation of her husband is explored using official data for the United Kingdom 
for 1959-1963 and 1970-1972. The author notes that not only are there large and 
specific effects of employees' occupations on life expectancy and mortality 
rates, but that these mortality differentials also affect the spouses of those 
in high-risk occupations. It is suggested that such occupational risks are 
transmitted via the domestic psychological environment to the married women 
concerned, and thus the males' job risks affect the life expectancy of both 
partners.

DOI: 10.1177/001872678303600203
PMID: 12265554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Janasamkhya. 1983 Jun;1(1):85-90.

Current life tables for Gujarat, 1970.

Gandotra MM.

PIP: Data from the Sample Registration System of India are used to construct 
life tables for males and females in Gujarat State in 1970. The values of the 
life tables are shown to be consistent with those of earlier studies.

PMID: 12265581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Popul Famille. 1981;(54):41-78.

[Regional life tables, 1969-1972, for Belgium by various causes of death].

[Article in French]

Andre R, Gossiaux A.

PIP: An analysis of life tables for Belgium for the period 1969-1972 is 
presented. Variations in mortality and in causes of death between Flanders and 
Wallonia are analyzed separately for males and females. Subregional mortality 
variations are also considered. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12265586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1983 Aug;10(1):5-13.

Censored cohort parity progression ratios from birth histories.

Brass W, Juarez F.

PIP: Despite recent progress in birth data collection and analysis techniques, 
it remains difficult to establish convincingly that a quantum fall in fertility 
due to control practices within unions is beginning to be appreciable in a 
population. A precise measurement of the size of fall associated with such 
alterations in behavior is difficult. 1 reason for the difficulty of defining 
measures of significance is the lack of accurate and detailed data. Another 
reason is the concommitant changes in other demographic characteristics that 
often occur at the same time as the adoption of control practices. Some of the 
most common are increases in age at marriage, reduction in length of postpartum 
amenorrhea, and shorter delays between marriage or cohabitation. Despite 
evidence of fertility falls over some 15 years, it has been hard to establish 
the size and nature of this change. The technique for doing so is the life table 
analysis of birth intervals. The strength of the life table approach is that it 
adjusts for populations at risk, such as the number of women in an age group of 
incomplete fertility who have experienced differing numbers of births at 
different intervals before the survey. The life table analysis deals with the 
problem of censoring. However, the estimates are seriously biased by selection 
for speed of reproduction. For some populations the control methods do not seem 
satisfactory. The most straightforward and effective approach is to subdivide 
the women by age at earlier birth for any particular interval by order, and to 
calculate separate life tables for the subdivisions. Individual countries are 
discussed to illustrate particular features of the analysis (Sri Lanka, Nepal, 
Korea, Pakistan, Latin America). The approach has been very successful in 
delineating trends in the parity progression ratios of higher order births. More 
research is needed on cutoff points of cohort and birth order for the indices, 
and the best ways of combining the measures to show trends.

PMID: 12265687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Demografie. 1983;25(4):309-21.

[Basic tendencies in the long-term development of survivorship function of the 
Czech population].

[Article in Czech]

Matesova J.

PIP: Changes in life expectancy in the population of Czechoslovakia over the 
past 100 years are examined using indicators from complete life tables. 
Mortality trends over this period are analyzed for both males and females. 
(summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12265725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Environ Plan A. 1983 Dec;15(12):1,633-52.

Marriage, divorce, and remarriage from retrospective data: a multiregional 
approach.

Espenshade TJ.

"In this paper the author applies the framework of multiregional population 
analysis to marital status changes as revealed by longitudinal retrospective 
data on marital histories collected as part of the June 1975 [U.S.] Current 
Population Survey supplement. Four marital statuses are used: never married, 
presently married, divorced, and widowed. Marital status life tables are 
computed for three periods: 1960-1965, 1965-1970, and 1970-1975, and, for each 
period, differences between males and females and between whites and blacks are 
described." Consideration is given to "the proportion of a life-table cohort 
ever marrying, the mean age at first marriage, the number of marriages per 
person marrying, the proportion of marriages ending in divorce, the average 
duration of a marriage (or a divorce, or a widowhood), and the like."

excerpt

PMID: 12265735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Popul Bull UN. 1983;(15):15-34.

Fertility and family structure.

Ryder NB.

PIP: This article presents a review of theoretical considerations in studies 
related to the research on fertility decline. The paper argues that in spite of 
the large expenditure of professional and material resources on research related 
to the problems of fertility behavior, there has been little advance in 
understanding of the relationship between the human variables related to 
fertility control. The most important reason for the lack of success is the 
disproportionate emphasis placed on the problem of explanation at the individual 
level whereas the institutional setting which always and everywhere conditions 
individual decisions and behavior has been consigned to residual neglect. It is 
argued that a theory of fertility decline is but 1 element in a theory of social 
change. The conceptualization required for that differs categorically from the 
designs of most current demographic enquiry. A theory of social change is 
concerned with the transformation of institutional structures, whereas the 
centerpiece of most demographic studies has been the individual decision maker. 
Although no claim is made to provide the necessary alternative 
conceptualization, this article does provide a set of suggestions for ways in 
which we may learn something important by pointing our investigations in other 
directions. The article studies those aspects of modernization which have the 
most direct implications for family structure--the way mortality decline affects 
the quantitative and temporal equilibrium within the traditional family. Because 
of an increase in the ratio of sons to fathers and a delay in the time of 
transfer of status and rights from the senior to the junior generations, 
fertility decline accompanied with increased life expectancy is disrupting the 
quantitative as well as temporal equilibrium within the family. The account of 
modernization as a force for demographic change is focussed not so much on 
fertility itself, but on the system of family mortality. The pursuit of family 
interests yields consequences which are unsatisfactory for society in the 
aggregate because some of the costs incurred by the senior generation are 
displaced onto the junior generation, necessitating some policy decisions. An 
acceptable theory of fertility decline is probably inaccessible within the 
confines of mechanistic micro-analytic models; the admission is required that 
social scientists are only beginning to define the macro-analytic problem in 
such a way to suggest appropriate research and methodologies. Fertility decline 
may need to be a subsidiary by-product rather than the focus of analytic 
strategy.

PMID: 12265832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Popul Today. 1984 Feb;12(2):6-7.

In (cautious) defense of the crude birth rate.

Kent MM, Haub C.

PIP: Both the crude birthrate (CBR) and the crude death rate (CDR) represent a 
simple concept: the number of births or deaths which occur in a given year per 
1000 population. They can also be used to calculate another fundamental measure, 
the rate of natural increase. Both the CBR and CDR are affected by a country's 
age structure, i.e., the proportion of a population in each age group. In 
thinking about crude rates, one notes the examples always given to identify the 
flaws inherent in these rates. The example is always the CDR. The CBR can give a 
reasonable estimate of fertility because, while the age composition of countries 
can vary substantially, the proportion of women in the childbearing years 
(15-49) varies much less, and it is these women who produce all the births in a 
population. It is the number of births per woman which ultimately determines the 
average family size measured by the total fertility rate (TFR) and which also 
determines the proportion of births to the total population, measured by the 
CBR. As long as the percentage of women of reproductive age is similar among 
countries, usually about 1/4 of the total population, the CBR should have this 
same association with the TFR. At least 2 factors contribute to the lack of an 
exact relationship between the CBR and TRF. While the proportion of women 15-49 
in the total population is often relatively constant, the age structure within 
the 15-49 age group may not be. Adding to the problems that the CBR will have as 
an indicator of true fertility levels is the fact that women 15-49 may not 
always be a constant proportion in all countries, particularly in countries 
heavily affected by migration. And the age pattern of childbearing varies among 
countries. Yet, there is a definite range for the TFR suggested by a given value 
of the CBR. Not the case for the CDR. With a CDR in the range of 9 or 10, life 
expectancy can vary from about 60 to as high as 75. Only in countries with very 
low life expectancy--in the 40-50 range--does a pattern develop. In sum, the 
CBR, upon closer inspection, does have some real utility in helping to fix the 
level of a country's fertility, unlike the CDR which cannot be used to 
approximate life expectancy.

PMID: 12265925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Popul Today. 1984 Mar;12(3):12.

Spotlight: Barbados.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Barbados was among the first to advocate a national system of family 
planning. In 1954 a joint committee report of birth legislation recommended the 
institution of a family planning system under the aegis of the government. The 
country's 1980 total fertility rate of 1.9 live births/woman attests to the 
success of the program. The rate is among the lowest of any developing nation. 
The population of Barbados was 122,298 at the 1st post emancipation census in 
1844. In 1946 the population totaled 193,680. To a considerable extent, this 
very low rate of growth (0.46%) was due to substantial emigration, first to 
Trinidad and Guyana and later to countries outside the region such as the UK and 
more recently the US and Canada. Net emigration was so great between 1881 and 
1921 that it exceeded natural increase by 54%. Consequently, the population 
declined from 182,867 to 156,724. By 1960, the population had reached 232,820, 
some 40,000 more than in 1946. Since then growth has been slow. Such a 
remarkably low rate of growth since World War 2 has been accomplished through 
continued high levels of emigration combined with declining fertility and 
mortality. The total fertility rate dropped from 4.7 in 1960 to 3.0 in 1970 to 
1.9 in 1980. Life expectancy rose from about 50 in 1946 to 70 in 1980. Levels of 
net emigration have always been high and remain so. About 18,000 more persons 
left the country than entered it during the 1970s, a rate of 7.5/1000 
population. While high, it is lower than in the 1960s. The mainstays of the 
economy are sugar and tourism. Since independence in 1966, sugar production has 
fallen steadily in response to depressed world sugar prices as well as 
increasing production costs. In recent years the government has sought to reduce 
dependence on the sugar industry. Tourism, adversely affected by the world 
recession, shows some signs of recovery. The discovery of some petroleum and 
natural gas may help. Barbados has one of the most developed infrastructures in 
the Caribbean and the government hopes to deal with current problems through 
diversification of the economy. As Barbados is the most densely populated 
country in the hemisphere, specialists agree that even a future population of 
300,000 may be beyond the island's capacity. Because of high 1950s fertility, 
the labor force is expected to increase by 25% by the year 2000, a serious issue 
considering that current unemployment is already 14.7% After 2015, Barbados will 
be faced with an "elderly problem." Given its current demographic behavior, 
Barbados is in a better position to address and solve these problems than most 
developing countries.

PMID: 12265967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Popul Today. 1984 Mar;12(3):6-7.

Sweden's population grows, Swedish population doesn't.

Gendell M.

PIP: The example of Swedish demography offers a contemporary insight into 
population growth or decline. In addition to the numerical increase due to the 
arrival of immigrants, migration can have an indirect effect on a country's 
population growth due to the arrived immigrants' subsequent natural fertility. 
Some very interesting differences also can often be observed in the births and 
deaths between the native born and immigrant populations. This phenomenon is 
particularly striking in the case of Sweden. In 1970 Sweden's population was 
growing at nearly 1% per year (9.83/1000), a relatively rapid pace by today's 
standard. Since 1970, the growth rate dropped steadily, down to only 0.1% in 
1981. The main reason for the slowed population growth has been the decline in 
the birthrate, from 14/1000 population to the 11.3-11.7 range since 1976. At the 
same time, the death rate rose from 10 to 11. Gains in life expectancy have been 
outweighed by the increasing proportion of the elderly. During the 1970s the 
rate of net migration fluctuated considerably. It dropped from a high rate of 
6/1000 in 1970 to -1.5 in 1972. 1972 and 1973 are the only postwar years in 
which Sweden experienced a net outflow. The rate rose again to 2.89 in 1977, 
falling to 0.3 in 1981, the latest year for which data are available. Starting 
in 1975 the components of Sweden's population change began to exhibit a 
remarkable aspect: population growth due to migration exceeded that due to 
natural increase. This had not occurred previously. Close examination reveals 
that the gain due to natural increase had become dependent upon the natural 
increase of the immigrants. Births of Swedish citizens, which had exceeded 
deaths by 22,000 in 1971, fell until natural decrease appeared in 1976. That gap 
has been growing wider ever since, to -6100 in 1982. A growing number of 
immigrants have been attaining Swedish citizenship, but the category of 
"citizen" is still the virtual equivalent of "native born." At the end of 1981, 
96% of Swedish citizens were born in Sweden. Hence, native born Swedes have been 
increasingly unable to reproduce themselves, and their numbers have declined 
since the late 1970s. The natural increase of the aliens has remained rather 
high, staying above 8000 annually for the past decade. If it were not for this 
contribution to growth from aliens, Sweden's population would be decreasing 
overall. Part of the difference between the 2 populations is due to age 
structure of the aliens. In 1980, 17% of the citizens were age 65 or older, but 
only 2% of the aliens were. Swedish citizes also have been outmigrating since at 
least the early 1960s.

PMID: 12265969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1984 Jan;(169):47-55.

[Life tables by marital status: 1980].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: The author presents life tables by marital status for Japan in 1980. 
Comparative data are also provided for 1975. An analysis of causes of death by 
marital status is included.

PMID: 12265986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1984 Jan;(169):64-71.

[The thirty-sixth abridged life tables: 1982-1983].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Abridged life tables for Japan for 1982-1983 are presented by sex, together 
with interpolated life table values by sex and single year of age.

PMID: 12265987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Majalah Demografi Indones. 1981 Jun;8(15):77-125.

A framework for estimating causes of death in Indonesia [causes of death in 
Indonesia].

Hull TH.

A number of demographic techniques for the indirect estimation of trends in 
causes of death in Indonesia are proposed. These involve "the use of rates and 
proportions derived from other nations experiencing similar levels of mortality 
to that prevailing in Indonesia. Four sets of estimates were produced, the first 
based on a regression developed by Preston, the other three derived from 
national patterns of Mexico, the Philippines, and a composite group of 
countries. These were compared with available epidemiologic and clinical data 
from Indonesia to produce a final set of estimates which accord both with known 
Indonesian patterns and medical findings from other nations."

excerpt

PMID: 12265996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1983 Nov;29(11):1-3.

[Duration of marriages in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Vielrose E.

PIP: Some estimates of future marriage duration in Poland are presented. The 
estimates are based on the assumption that marriages will end at the death of 
either spouse, and these deaths are projected using 1980-1981 official life 
tables by sex. The tables showing the probability of marriages ending in this 
way are provided for various five-year age groups and take into account 
differences in age between husband and wife.

PMID: 12266024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Genus. 1983 Jan-Dec;39(1-4):167-73.

[The estimation of the expectation of life in the case of truncation of the 
survivorship function at older ages: some considerations].

[Article in Italian]

Lombardo E.

"A tentative approximation of the expectation of life at 60-65 years, for 
populations with defective demographic statistics, is explored and expounded on 
the basis of a recent Horiuchi and [Coale] paper." The method is applied to data 
for El Salvador, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Peninsular Malaysia, and it is shown 
that the method can be used on actual data, although it requires some drastic 
rounding off. (summary in ENG, FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12266118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Genus. 1983 Jan-Dec;39(1-4):189-211.

[The logit-linear transformation of Italian provincial life tables, 1971-1972].

[Article in Italian]

De Bartolo G.

PIP: The main features of logit-linear transformation are first described. A 
model is then applied to obtain complete survivorship functions for Italian 
provincial life tables for 1971-1972. The results are compared with abridged 
life tables calculated by G. Caselli and V. Egidi using factor analysis. The use 
of the logit model in mortality projections is also considered. (summary in ENG, 
FRE)

PMID: 12266120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Renkou Yanjiu. 1982 May 29;(3):38-41.

[A preliminary inquiry into the interrelationship between population growth and 
economic development in Hong Kong].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZS.

PIP: Hong Kong includes Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, New Territory, and more than 
230 islands. During World War ii, the population of Hong Kong decreased sharply, 
and the total number decreased to less than 600,000. Since the war ended in 
1945, the population of Hong Kong has been increasing rapidly at an annual rate 
of 20%. By the end of 1981, its total population had increased to 5.2 million, 
including 1.25 million newly arrived immigrants. The average age is 24.8. People 
above the age 65 constitute only 6% of the total population. This shows that 
there is a sufficient supply of labor for local economic development. Because of 
continued economic growth, there has been a constant demand for more labor. Low 
wages provide an excellent condition for high-speed industrial development. An 
improved quality of professional workers and management personnel also 
contributes much to Hong Kong's industrial modernization. Because of high 
employment among the labor population, the general population earns income and 
spends a great deal, and this has created a rather active economy. General 
population growth trends include: 1) continued population growth will bring the 
total population to 6.3 million by the end of 1981, and the housing problem will 
become more serious; 2) a stable decline in the natural population growth rate 
will gradually change the population pattern to a low birth, low death, and low 
natural growth situation; and 3) improvements in science and technology, health 
care, and living conditions will reduce the death rate, and the average age will 
lengthen, and with the increase in old people, the demand for social welfare 
will also increase; and 4) there will be a shortage in experienced labor 
(professional technicians and high management personnel) in the 1980s. Facing 
the new situation, Hong Kong's economic structure needs reform, moving from a 
labor intensive enterprise to a capital-technological intensive enterprise. The 
market will be expanded and Hong Kong will earn more profit in China's mode 
rnization process.

PMID: 12266136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1984 Apr;5(2):117-21.

A comparative evaluation of three IUDs.

Ditchik PM, Ditchik JM.

Private practice clinical experience with the insertion of 3 types of IUDs 
(Lippes loop, Dalkon shield, Cu 7) is evaluated. Life table analyses indicated 
similar pregnancy rates for the 3 IUDs. Lower expulsion rates were experienced 
with the Dalkon shield. Higher removal rates were experienced for pelvic 
inflammatory disease and pain and/or bleeding with the Cu 7. In part, the higher 
Cu 7 removal rates reflect a change to more liberal indications for IUD removal.

PMID: 12266197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Rev Bras Estat. 1980 Apr-Jun;41(162):201-16.

[Mortality in metropolitan regions].

[Article in Portuguese]

Simoes Ccds.

PIP: Data from the 1970 census and a 1974-1975 survey carried out in Brazil by 
the Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica are used to examine 
recent mortality trends in urban areas. Specifically, life expectancy in nine 
metropolitan areas is analyzed in relation to income, diet, and sanitary 
facilities in the home.

PMID: 12266254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


