753. Popul Bull ECWA. 1982 Jun-Dec;(22-23):5-30.

Duration-specific marital fertility in Egypt.

Coale AJ, El-atoum S.

PIP: Because of the discovery of substantial underreporting of births, deaths, 
marriages, and divorces in Egypt, the original report of the Committee on 
Population and Demography on duration-secific fertility rates of married women 
in Egypt was modified by using estimated calculations of these vital statistics. 
The original report involved the calculation of duration-specific fertility 
rates of married women in Egypt by first estimating the number of currently 
married women at each duration (by single years of duration under duration 5, 
and by 5-year intervals of duration up to duration 20). The calculation required 
data on the annual number of marriages and on the number of divorces each year, 
classified by duration of marriage, and estimated of the number of deaths of 
married persons of each sex by duration of marriage. From these data, it is 
possible to estimate at each date the number of marriages still intact of those 
that took place 0-1, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4, 4-5, 5-10, 10-15, and 15-20 years earlier. 
Deficits in the recorded number of marriages cause implausible variations in 
duration-specific fertility. It is important to discover the extent to which the 
recent apparent increase in birthrate is genuine, and the extent to which it is 
the result of improved registration. Factors causing an increase in fertility 
could be increase in the fraction of the population of childbearing age that is 
currently married; reduction in the interbirth intervals in the early years of 
marriage as a result of shorter average period of breastfeeding; or reduction in 
the practice of contraception or in the effectiveness of such practice. 
Duration-specific fertility rates were recalculated for 1966-79 by estimating 
the number of currently married women at each duration of marriage. If 
registered data are accurate, there was a slight increase in marital fertility 
after 1975 or 1976, and a large increase in 1979. The sharp rise in 1979 should 
not be accepted without study of registration procedures. Underregistration of 
births in the early 1970s was estimated at 4%. Since births are recorded by year 
of registration rather than year of occurrence, improved registration might 
include not only a more complete record of current births, but also the backlog 
of previously unregistered events.

PMID: 12266317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Enlace. 1984 Apr;(9):18-20.

[Demographic profile of Venezuela].

[Article in Spanish]

Quintero I.

PIP: Sources of demographic data for Venezuela include 11 population censuses 
conducted between 1873-1981, birth and death registration statistics, and the 
household sample survey. The average annual rate of population growth increase 
from 2.8% between 1920-40 to 3-4% thereafter. The population at the 1961 census 
was 7.52 million. According to preliminary data from the 1981 census, the 
population of 14.57 million is growing at an annual rate of 2.8%. 41.2% of the 
population is under 15 years old, implying a huge demand for educational and 
health services, housing and employment. The dependency rate in 1980 was 81.3% 
for the country as a whole, 100.4% in rural areas, and 76.0% in urban areas. The 
young age structure means that the population will continue to grow even if 
natality rates decline. The crude natality rate was estimated at 47.3/1000 for 
1950-55, 36.0 for 1970-75, and 32.9 for 1980-85. Some rural areas still have 
natality rates of over 47/1000. The total fertility rate declined from 6.5 in 
1950-55 to 4.1 in 1980-85. The decline in the natality rate reflects improving 
quality of life, availability of family planning services, urbanization, and 
access of women to productive activities and educational centers. The mortality 
rate was 12.3/1000 in 1950-55, 9.1 in 1960-65, in 1970-75, and has been 
estimated at 5.5 for 1980-85. Some rural areas have mortality rates of 8.1. The 
infant mortality rate was 50.2/1000 in 1971 and 34.3 in 1980. Life expectancy at 
birth is about 69 years. During the 1920s, Venezuela unerwent expansion in 
infrastructure and technological utilization, generating rapid urbanization. 
39.2% of the population was urban in 1941, compared to 78.8% in 1980. The 
significance of urbanization in Venezuela is due to the rapidity as well as the 
diffusion of the process. The household sample survey for the 2nd half of 1980 
indicated a total of 8.16 million employed and an activity rate of 32.1% 
overall, 46.4% for males and 17.7% for females. The demographic situation of 
Venezuela does not appear alarming if viewed in isolation, but the deficit of 
some 500,000 housing units, the million unemployed, the importation of about 75% 
of the country's food, the stagnation of agriculture, the lower than subsistence 
level of about 40% of incomes, and the lack of population policies suggest that 
the 24.7 million inhabitants projected for 2000 will pose a considerable 
challenge to the nation.

PMID: 12266336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Finance Dev. 1984 Sep;21(3):10-5.

Population growth. Its magnitude and implications for development.

Birdsall N.

PIP: A summary of the 1984 World Development Report is provided. The 3 major 
points stressed in the report were: 1) rapid population growth adversely affects 
development, 2) governments must adopt policies to reduce fertility, and 3) 
policies adopted by many countries have effectively reduced fertility. World 
population growth began accelerating at 0.5%/year in the 18th century, and by 
1950 the annual acceleration rate was 2%. Most of the increase in population 
size is occurring in less developed countries, and this increase is due in part 
to the recent decline in mortality experienced by these countries. Of the 80 
million individuals who will be added to the world's population in 1984, 70 
million will be in the developing countries. Since 1965 the population growth 
rate for developing countries as a group declined from 2.4% to 2%. However, 
because of the high proportion of younger aged individuals in developing 
countries, the decline in fertility is expected to level off. According to World 
Bank population projections, the world population will stabilize at around 11 
billion in 2150. During the interium, the population of developing countries 
will increase from its present level of 3.6 billion to 8.4 billion, and the 
population of developed countries will increase from 1.2 billion to 1.4 billion. 
These projections are probably overly optimistic. The adverse impact on 
development of rapid population growth is due to several factors. 1st, resources 
which could be used for investment must instead be used to fulfill the 
consumption needs of an increased number of people. 2nd, increases in the labor 
force must be absorbed by the agricultural sector, and this reduces agricultural 
productivity. 3rd, rapid population growth increases management problems. The 
adaption of policies by governments to reduce fertility is a necessary step in 
halting population growth. For poor families, children provide economic 
security. Therefore, governments must act to improve the economic conditions for 
poor families if they hope to reduce population growth. Education and job 
opportunities must be expanded and social security provided for the elderly. In 
the past it was assumed that fertility would only decline when urbanization, 
industrialization, and income reached a certain level. It is now known that 
appropriate policies can effectively reduce fertility even in the absence of 
economic advancement. Fertility declines are more closely related to increases 
in literacy and life expectancy than to increases in the gross national product. 
Family planning programs in China, Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Korea, Sri 
Lanka, and Tunisia have reduced fertility far below the level normally 
associated with the income levels prevailing in those countries.

PMID: 12266357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Aust Soc. 1984 Jun 1;3(6):27-8.

Must these children keep dying?

Fraser B, Fraser S.

PIP: An estimated 15 million infants, largely from Africa, Asia, and Latin 
America, died in 1983. Many countries in the Third World have infant mortality 
rates of 150-200/1000 live births. UNICEF has outlines 7 steps that could 
significantly reduce the infant mortality rate: 1) use of growth monitoring 
charts, 2) oral rehydration therapy, 3) breastfeeding for at least 1 year, 4) a 
massive immunization campaign, 5) food supplementation for pregnant women and 
children at risk, 6) a family spacing education campaign, and 7) extension of 
female education. 2 other measures not emphasized by UNICEF but important for 
the health and survival of children are a government system of welfare for the 
care of the aged to partially solve the need for children and the equal 
valuation of male and female children. Concerned Australians are urged to spread 
the word about the UNICEF report, provide funds, and influence the Australian 
government to offer help through UNICEF to developing countries. Technically 
qualified people can go to Third World countries and work for better conditions. 
It should be noted, however, that Australia has its own Third World sector. The 
Aboriginal population is severely disadvantaged in terms of all the major 
indicators of quality of life. The infant mortality rate among Aboriginals is 
25/1000 live births, which is 2.5 times the Australian national average. Life 
expectancy at birth is 53 years, or 20 years less than the national average. 80% 
of Aboriginals have no educational qualifications, and 80% are unemployed. 
Aboriginal households have less than 60% the average income available to 
non-Aboriginal households and the housing of the majority of the Aboriginal 
population is substandard.

PMID: 12266402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Popul Today. 1984 Nov;12(11):2, 8-9.

"Death and taxes": a contrary view.

Manton KG, Soldo BJ, Vierck E.

PIP: A critique is presented of a paper entitled "Death and Taxes: the Public 
Policy Impact of Living Longer", which was published in 1984 by the Population 
Reference Bureau (PRB). The 1st point at issued concerns the prospects and means 
of extending human life. The age group over 85 is the fastest growing segment of 
hospitial and nursing costs peak at these ages. The rapid aging of the 
population reflects recent significant declines in death rates from chronic 
degenerative diseases whose mortality rates at all but extreme ages are very low 
and death occurs very late in life without disease. The findings on which this 
forecast is based are controversial and are discounted by many demographers, 
actuaries, and research biologists. The PRB scenario is based on 3 questionable 
hypotheses: 1) that the life span is biologically fixed and programmed, 2) that 
we are rapidly approaching the predetermined limit of life, and 3) that research 
on the "underlying causes of aging", as distinct from disease processes, may 
extend quantity and quality of life. For at least the foreseeable future, the 
chronic degenerative diseases will pose the greatest threat to quality of life 
of the elderly. Even if "natural" death were theoretically possible in the far 
future, support for disease-specific research would be required over the next 40 
to 50 years to meet the needs of the elderly. Since the end of World War II, 
there has been impressive progress in extending the average length of life, but 
the prevalence of the major life-threatening chronic diseases has increased or 
decreased only slightly, raising the possibility of a population living longer 
but in a less health condition. Reconceptualizing health as a process with 
multiple outcomes of morbidity, diability, and death suggests a perspective in 
which slowing the rate of disease progress emerges as an important clinical 
goal, research focus, and health policy objective. The direction and mignitude 
of public expenditure will largely shape the health of the future older 
population; in that context, the PRB estimates of the "costs" to the federal 
budget from saving individual lives are troublesome, since they deal only in 
financial terms. Balancing the actual dollar costs against more qualitative 
aspects of population aging is the true challenge to public policy. The greatest 
objection to the paper is that it discounts societal, value-based commitment to 
the elderly in favor of a purely financial reckoning.

PMID: 12266404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Int Demogr. 1984 Dec;3(12):4-8.

Republic of Cyprus: [a small but bustling market]. Country profile.

Spain D.

PIP: Cyprus' birth rate in mid-1982 was 22/1000 population and the death rate 
was 8/1000. The average annual rate of growth is 1.4%, and the population is 
projected to stand at 700,000 by the year 2000. Political turmoil resulting from 
the 1974 Turkish invasion produced massive population displacement. There are 
150,000 inhabitants in the norther part of the island compared with 500,000 
inhabitants in the southern part. Most current demographic data are available 
only through the Government of Cyprus and are limited to government-controlled 
areas. Despite the emergence of Cyprus as a site for offshore business, the 
economy is growing at only 1.2%/year. Inflation stands at somewhat below 13%. 
The government-controlled southern area is 57% urban. Rural-urban migrants tend 
to be male, ages 20-29 years, and highly educated. Over 70% of urban residents 
have moved at least once compared with less than 40% of rural residents. About 
80% of Cypriots are of Greek origin and 20% are of Turkish origin. The 
population is aging gradually as fertility falls, although only 4% of the 
population in 1981 was aged 65 years or older. Life expectancy is 72 years for 
men and 76 years for women. The infant mortality rate is currently 18/1000 live 
births. Mean household size was 3.6 members in 1981, with little difference 
between urban and rural households. 73% of these households are nuclear 
families. The total fertility rate is 2.3 children/women, with a mean of 2.8 
children in urban areas and 3.7 in rural areas. Women with a primary education 
average 3.4 children whereas those with a secondary education average 1.9. Women 
under age 30 years desire an average completed family size of 2.4 children. 
Women now have their children soon after marriage rather than over their entire 
reproductive cycle. A preference for sons persists. 48% of those ages 25-29 
years have a secondary education and 14% are college educated, although men are 
better educated than women. Female labor force participation is linked with 
marital status, with 42% of married women working. The per capita gross national 
product was US$3995 in 1981.

PMID: 12266421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Popul Policy Compend. 1983 Nov:1-7.

Trinidad and Tobago.

United Nations. Department of Economic and Social Affairs. Population Division; 
United Nations. Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Trinidad and Tobago entered the 1st stage of its demographic transition in 
the early 1960s, experiencing declining mortality and relatively high fertility. 
Fertility began to decline in the late 1960s. The current rate of population 
growth is 1.5%. The total population stood at 1,168,000 in 1980 and is projected 
to reach 1,483,000 by the year 2000. The population growth rate is considered 
overly high and the government aims to decrease fertility levels and create a 
more diversified economy. Levels and trends in mortality and morbidity are 
considered acceptable. Life expectancy at birth is 68.9 years and the infant 
mortality rate is 34.6/1000 live births. The policy orientation is toward 
primary health care through measures such as expansion of community health care 
services, health education, and construction of a network of health centers. A 
National Population Council was established in 1967 to advise on population 
policy and evaluate family planning programs. Population control is viewed as an 
integral part of Trindidad and Tobago's program for social and economic 
development. Urban residence, higher education, and labor force participation 
appear to have contributed to a decline in fertility. Average family size has 
dropped from 6 children in the 1950s to a current level of 2.5-3 children. 
However, fertility levels and trends are still considered too high, both in 
relation to population growth and family well-being. Fertility surveys have 
found that 78% of all women in the country have used contraception at some point 
and 60% of exposed women are currently using a method a fertility control. The 
government has no immigration policy, although there is concern over the effects 
of undocumented immigration policy and emigration of skilled personnel. Finally, 
the government seeks to reduce the concentration of the population in 
metropolitan centers because of urban sprawl and infrastructure lags. The 
population is currently 21.5% urban.

PMID: 12266424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1984 Jul;(171):53-66.

[A comparative study of the level of life expectancy and the cause structure of 
mortality between Japanese and U.S. white Americans].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: It is first noted that life expectancy in Japan is high for both sexes and 
continues to increase at a faster rate than for most other developed countries. 
The reasons for these differences are to be found in the differences in causes 
of death between Japan and other developed countries. These differences are 
examined through a comparison of Japanese and U.S. white cause of death data. 
The primary cause of the differences is identified as lower mortality from heart 
disease in Japan. However, cerebrovascular mortality is still higher in Japan, 
and life expectancy will continue to increase if this type of mortality declines 
to current U.S. levels.

PMID: 12266454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Demografie. 1984;26(4):305-12.

[Mortality trends of the population in northern and northeastern Moravia during 
the proto-statistical period].

[Article in Czech]

Dokoupil L.

PIP: Mortality trends in Moravia, Czechoslovakia, are examined from around 1700 
until around 1850. It is noted that mortality remained high throughout this 
period, with life expectancy about 25 years. Mortality also increased in 
response to catastrophic events such as the Napoleonic wars. Data from the 
Ostrava region confirm the hypothesis that industrialization was associated with 
higher mortality. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12266469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Biom J. 1984;26(1):111-8. doi: 10.1002/bimj.4710260121.

Competing risk analysis for life table data with known observation times.

Yeh C, Le C, Mchugh R.

"Several models have been proposed for the analysis of cohort mortality in the 
presence of competing risks.... This paper describes a maximum likelihood 
approach to the analysis of follow up data in life table format for the case of 
two competing risks--a specific cause and its competing complement. The model 
developed uses a robust survivorship assumption--the piecewise exponential--and 
takes into account information on time to death and time to withdrawal." 
(summary in GER)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.4710260121
PMID: 12266486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Environ Plan A. 1984 Oct;16(10):1303-18. doi: 10.1068/a161303.

The influence of fertility, early housing-career, and socioeconomic factors on 
tenure determination in contemporary Britain.

Murphy MJ.

PIP: The time-dependent proportional hazards model is used to analyse 1st 
achievement by married couples of a home in 1 of the 2 major British housing 
tenures: owner-occupation and local authority accomodation. The effect of 
demographic and socioeconomic influences such as age at marriage, social class, 
and previous housing and fertility histories were estimated using a combination 
of life table and regression approaches applied to data for 3 marriage cohorts 
in the Office of Population Censuses and Survey's 1976 Family Formation Survey. 
All the factors considered have strong individual influence on final tenure. 
However, tenure type achieved is not determined by a single variable, but rather 
by a combination of factors which tend to reinforce each other. A couple with 
manual occupation, early marriage and child bearing, and starting their married 
life in shared local authority accomodation are extremely likely to become local 
authority tenants themselves. Factors conducive to achieving owner-occupation 
are likely to have the reverse effect for local authority housing. The key 
factors seem to be achievement of the alternative major housing tenure, social 
class, the birth of the 1st and 3rd children (although there is also substantial 
evidence that timing factors are important as well as numbers), and to a lesser 
effect (except at values well away from the average) age at marriage. In 
general, the absolute magnitudes of the estimated effects on achieving local 
authority accomodation were larger than the effects on owner-occupation. This 
may tend to reflect the rather more homogeneous characteristics of local 
authority tenants compared with owner-occupiers.

DOI: 10.1068/a161303
PMID: 12266536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Sierra. 1984 Jul-Aug;69(4):36-9.

Critical masses: world population 1984.

Ehrlich A.

PIP: There have been several changes since the 1974 conference on population 
growth held in Bucharest, Romania. Global population has expanded by 800 million 
people, an increase of 20% over the 1974 figure. The good news is that the rate 
of population growth, expressed as a percentage and not in terms of the absolute 
numbers added per year, has begun to slacken because of declining birthrates in 
many countries. Yet, because of the momentum of population growth, the 
population of the world is destined to continue growing for a century or so. The 
recognition of rapid population growth as a hindrance to development in poor 
countries has increased markedly during the last decade. The presumption that 
the development process by itself can lower birthrates has proven 
oversimplified, but certain kinds of development--what demographers term "social 
development" -- apparently foster reductions in fertility and directly improve 
people's well-being. Prime factors of social development are education 
(especially for women); nutritional, health, and sanitation measures leading to 
increased life expectancy; and a vigorous family planning effort. Few developing 
countries are without a family planning program or a population policy of some 
kind, and some have achieved impressive success in reducing their rates of 
population growth. China is possible the best known example of this, having 
attracted considerable press attention for its "1 child family" policy. If 
during the last decade population pressures on resources and environment have 
became discernible in the US and other rich countries, they have reached tragic 
proportions in many poor countries. In 1974 the idea that widespread hunger in 
developing countries was a symptom of overpopulation was denounced, but a decade 
later the people in many poor countries have begun to recognize the connections 
among population growth, faltering food production, deterioration of lands, 
environmental degradation, and economic problems of many kinds. Considerable 
scope remains for increasing food production in most developing regions, but the 
currently dominant Western model for agricultural development is demonstrably 
unsustainable in the long term. The 1984 International Conference on Population 
offers the Opportunity to focus world attention on the proliferating problems 
associated with and amplified by continued population growth.

PMID: 12266547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Int Demogr. 1984 Nov;3(11):4-7.

Spain [is growing market, but family life is still conservative]. Country 
profile.

Newcomb L.

PIP: This discussion of Spain focuses on regions and cities, ethnicity and 
religion, age distribution, households and families, literacy and education 
labor force the economy, women, and sources of information. Spain, at one time a 
mainly agrarian society, is shifting towards a more industrialized civilization. 
Concurrent with industrialization is a migration of workers from rural to urban 
areas. Spain has an estimated 1984 population of 38,717,000 of which 77% reside 
in urban areas. Approximately 28% live in the 3 metropolitan cities of Madrid, 
Bilbao, and Barcelona. 10 years ago only 70% of the population lived in any 
urban area. Spain's annual population growth rate currently stands at 0.5%, a 
marked decrease from the 1.05% average annual growth rate between 1960-80. 
Compared with other major Western European countries, Spain is sparsely 
populated with an average of only 196 people per square mile. There are 4 major 
ethnic groups in Spain. The largest is Spanish, which accounts for 72.8% of the 
population. The gypsy population numbers approximately 200,000 and is a minority 
group that is not fully integrated into Spanish society. Open practice of all 
religions is now permitted in Spain, and Roman Catholicism is no longer 
sanctioned as the official religion of the country. Over 90% of the population 
report themselves as Roman Catholic. Spain has 1 of the youngest population in 
Europe with 41% of the population under age 24. 11% are age 65 years or older. 
The birth and death rates, 19.4 and 8.2/1000 respectively in 1974, declined to 
13.0 and 7.0 in 1983. Life expectancy is 73 years. Families in Spain tend to be 
extended families. The average household often consists of 3 generations. Single 
person households are a rarity. The literacy rate, defined by the number of 
adults age 15 or older who can read and write, has risen sharply from 87% in 
1974 to 97% in 1981. Spain has the highest jobless rate in Western Europe. At 
the end of May 1984 the unemployment rate was 20% in a work force of 13.2 
million. From 1965-74 the Spanish economy achieved an unprecedented average 
annual growth rate of 7%, making it the 2nd fastest growing industrialized 
country in the world. Occupational barriers exist that restrict most women from 
meaningful employment in the Spanish work place.

PMID: 12266548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Probl Econ. 1984 Jul;27(3):3-21. doi: 10.2753/pet1061-199127033.

Theoretical problems of demographic policy in the USSR.

Kvasha A.

PIP: The recent emphasis in the USSR on long-range economic and social planning, 
as well as the country's current demographic situation, necessitates the 
adoption of demographic policies to create the type of population reproduction 
which is in the longterm interest of the society. Socioeconomic policies may 
have bothnegative and positive effects on demographic processes, and these 
effects may be delayed for 25 years or more. In the past, when economic and 
social plans covered only 5-year periods, the impact of these plans on 
demographic factors could be ignored. In longterm planning these consequences 
cannot be ignored. Population policies must address the longterm consequences of 
socioeconomic development, the regional variations in population parameters, and 
the complexities of the relationship between demographic and socioeconomic 
factors. As socialist societies evolve they eventually reach a stage where it is 
necessary to develop a theory and a methodolgy for managing demographic 
processes. The development of appropriate demographic goals and policies will 
require the cooperation of not only demographers, but of medical professionals, 
sociologists, and economists. The initial tasks of a goal oriented population 
program should be to stabilize the birth rate, to prevent further declines in 
fertility rates, to increase life expectancy to its biological limits, to reduce 
death rates, to equalize regional living standards, to control immigration, and 
to improve resettlement programs. Eventually policymakers must address the 
problem of developing an optimal and uniform level of reproduction for the 
nation as a whole. An organization structure, both at the national and regional 
level for developing and implementing the population program must be specified. 
Regional programs must be coordinated at the national level and developed in 
accordance with national goals.

DOI: 10.2753/pet1061-199127033
PMID: 12266562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1984 May;(7):9-14.

Longevity and health care: a cost-benefit type analysis of life expectancy and 
medical expenditure.

Koizumi A.

PIP: The relationship between the amount of national medical expenditures and 
increases in longevity in Japan is explored. The author notes that although 
Japanese life expectancy is now among the highest in the world, a result of this 
trend has been an increase in the survival of those who are more or less 
permanently sick or invalid. The need to concentrate future resources on 
increasing the quality of life for those who survive is stressed. (summary in 
JPN)

PMID: 12266572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Cambridge J Econ. 1983 Sep-Dec;7(3-4):363-80. doi: 10.1093/cje/7.3-4.363.

Indian women: well-being and survival.

Kynch J, Sen A.

PIP: The authors examine sex differentials in sustenance and survival in 
developing countries using the example of India. Lower female life expectancy at 
birth and the declining ratio of females to males are discussed as evidence of 
female deprivation. Consideration is given to the feeding, survival, and neglect 
of female children, to differences in use of medical facilities by sex, and to 
regional differences by state. This pattern of discrimination is found to 
persist even in urban areas.

DOI: 10.1093/cje/7.3-4.363
PMID: 12266590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Notas Poblacion. 1984 Dec;12(36):85-97.

[Variations on the theme of logistic function].

[Article in Spanish]

Arriaga EE.

"The use of the logistic function in demographic techniques and analyses has 
increased significantly during recent years. Nevertheless, not too much 
attention has been given to the function of the constants nor to the 
consequences of the implicit assumptions when the function is used for 
estimating some demographic parameters. In this article, the author underlines 
the meaning of the constants in the logistic function when applied in some 
demographic cases, and gives some examples of the assumptions involved in the 
application of the logistic to the trends of urban/rural populations, life 
expectancies, and the logit transformation." (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12266591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Popul Bull UN. 1984;(16):40-61.

Mortality and health policy: main issues for the 1980s.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

PIP: This paper reviews the progress and prospects for mortality reduction in 
the major regions of the world. The goals for mortality reduction as expressed 
in the World Population Plan of Action and other official international 
documents are presented and progress towards the attainment of those goals at 
the regional level is appraised. A quick review of trends in life expectancy at 
birth is then presented and major causes of death for developing and developed 
countries are summarized. The interrelationships between mortality and health 
levels and differentials, and development are considered. Factors leading to a 
sustained high mortality level or contributing to its decrease are investigated. 
Some factors reviewed are gross national product (GNP), structure of economic 
growth, dependency on foreign economies, recession, development strategies, 
education and agricultural development. For developed countries, focus is on per 
capita GNP, life styles associated with development and industrial pollution. 
Demographic, economic and social consequences of mortality and health 
improvement are then examined and main findings on differentials in mortality by 
sex, socioeconomic characteristics and geographical location are presented for 
developed and developing countries. The effects of selected health programs in 
areas like immunization, nutrition, maternal and child health, sanitation, 
environmental control and life-style interventions are considered and basic 
elements of primary health care strategy discussed. Primary health care 
strategies are characterized by some basic elements, including active community 
participation, provision of curative, preventive and health promotion services 
and use of paramedical personnel. The obstacles for health policy implementation 
are examined. A review is made of characteristics of the social system e.g. 
power structure, and a closer look is taken at specific characteristics of the 
health system such as health care management, planning and financing. Health 
care costs may be met by direct consumer payment for services, some form of 
insurance or payment out of existing or anticipated general tax revenues. Some 
combination of these is common in actual practice.

PMID: 12266661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Oxf Bull Econ Stat. 1984 Aug;46(3):255-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-0084.1984.mp46003004.x.

Income redistribution versus accelerated economic growth: a comparison of 
demographic effects.

Winegarden CR.

PIP: An attempt is made to identify the effects on fertility and mean 
expectation of life of varying rates of growth in aggregate income and of 
changes in the income share of the poorer segments of the population. The extent 
to which these effects vary among developing countries with different levels of 
mean income is also considered. An econometric model is developed to estimate 
the direction and strength of the structural relationships among the key 
variables, and simulation methods are used to predict the final demographic 
effects of altering either the growth rate or the size distribution of income. 
The results suggest that there is no general justification for income 
redistribution as a means of slowing rates of population growth in a developing 
country. It may be relevant in the more advanced developing countries, but even 
in those, more direct means (such as family planning programs, education, and 
health services) may be more effective. This is a revised version of a paper 
originally presented at the 1983 Annual Meeting of the Population Association of 
America (see Population Index, Vol. 49, No. 3, Fall 1983, p. 356).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0084.1984.mp46003004.x
PMID: 12266666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Naselenie. 1984;2(3):3-24.

[Human longevity and the demographic aging of the population].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Mikhailova P.

PIP: Problems associated with the aging of the population in Bulgaria are 
examined. Some basic features of the aging process in humans are described, and 
factors that determine the biological limits of life are considered. The need 
for social, economic, and demographic approaches to the issue of demographic 
aging is emphasized. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12266710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Mazingira. 1985;8(4):17-21.

Reducing China's one billion.

Lee WY.

PIP: China's population growth process has gone through 4 stages since 1950: 1) 
the period 1950-57, when there was a net population increase of 100 million 
people in response to postwar economic recovery; 2) the period 1958-61, when the 
birth rate declined and the death rate increased as a result of the upheavals 
caused by the "great leap forward" movement; 3) the period 1962-75, during which 
family planning was introduced; and 4) the period 1976-80, during which time 
family planning has been rigorously practiced. As a result of conscious 
population reduction measures, the natural growth rate has been reduced to less 
than 1% in the urban areas and slightly over 1.2% in rural areas. If an annual 
growth rate of 1.4% is maintained, China's population will grow to a peak of 
1380 million before beginning its decline early in the 21st century. The total 
population of China stood at 1,008,175,288 at the time of the 1982 census, with 
a male to female ratio of 106.3:100. Over 60% of the population was born after 
1949. Those born during the population peak periods of 1954-57 and 1962-75 have 
already reached reproductive age. The illiteracy rate has declined to 23.5%. The 
number of people employed in the primary sector has remained consistently high 
(80% of the total work force), while employment in the secondary sector has 
increased and employment in the tertiary sector has declined slightly. In 1982, 
20.9% of China's population was urban and 6.7% of the population was from an 
ethnic minority grouping. Finally, the 1982 Census indicated an average life 
expectancy of 67.88 years. Population reduction measures in China have included 
the 1-child family policy, incentives and penalties, and social welfare measures 
for the elderly. In addition, family planning units at every level of government 
conduct family planning promotion activities, provide free family planning 
services, and encourage delayed 1st marriage.

PMID: 12266987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Int Demogr. 1985 Jul;4(7):1-6.

Republic of Austria. Country profile.

Newcomb LC.

PIP: A summary description of Austria's demographic situation, economic 
conditions, labor force characteristics, housing conditions, household 
characteristics, and marriage patterns is provided. Austria, the former center 
of the Hapsburg Empire, covers 32,375 square miles and is divided into 9 
provinces, including Vienna, the federal capital. Austria's population increased 
from 6.9 million in 1950 to 7.6 million in 1980. Since 1980 it declined slightly 
and in 1985 it was estimated to be 7,487,000. Between 1961-81, the industrial, 
western region of the country grew more rapidly than the predominantly rural 
eastern section of the country. Vienna, the largest city in the country, 
experienced a decline in population size from 1.9 million to 1.5 million since 
1923. Part of the decline was due to the annihilation of the city's Jewish 
population in 1938. Austria has a lower urban population (56%) than most other 
industrialized countries. This low rate reflects the availability of tourist 
related jobs in the rural areas. 98% of the population is Austrian, the official 
language is German, and most of the inhabitants are Roman Catholic. Due to the 
homogeneity of the population, the country has few religious and racial 
problems; however, a recent study indicated that about 1/2 of the population has 
anti-Semetic attitudes. Life expectancy is 69 years for men and 76 years for 
women. Austria's population is aging. Currently, 18% of the population is under 
15 years of age, and 14% is 65 years of age or older. Births are expected to 
increase slightly until the end of the 1900s and then decline slightly. 
Austrians place a high value on children and family life. Between 1978-82 the 
marriage rate increased from 4.5/1000 to 4.8/1000, and the median age at 
marriage increased from 22.4-23.0 years for women and from 25.6-25.8 years for 
men. The number of divorces/year increased from 11,168-14.298 between 1976-82. 
Currently, there are 2,767,000 households, and the average household size is 2.6 
persons. The proportion of single family member households increased in recent 
years. Most urban dwellers live in apartments, and 20% of the dwelling in Vienna 
are owned by the government. Education is stressed and students take their 
education seriously. 41% of all students in higher education in 1980 were 
female. Austria's labor force is well educated, and 30% are engaged in 
manufacturing; 20%, in commercial, social, and personal services, 175, in 
commerce and hotel services; and 10%, in the primary sector. Labor disputes are 
generally resolved by an unofficial coalition of representatives from industry, 
labor unions, and the government. Strikes rarely occur. Average earning are 
US$850/month. Imported labor was used to supplement a deficiency in the supply 
of labor in the 1960s and 1970s. Currently, few imported laborers are used, and 
the country has some unemployment. Austria was not seriously affected by the 
recent economic recession. In 1985 the gross domestic product is expected to 
increase by 3.0%, the country has a favorable trade balance, and the economic 
outlook for the country is good.

PMID: 12267023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Mar;14(1):2-5.

A survey of population in the ESCAP region.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In 1983, the ESCAP region added 44 million people, bringing its total 
population to 2600 million, which is 56% of the world population. The annual 
rate of population growth was 1.7% in 1983 compared to 2.4% in 1970-75. The 
urban population rose from 23.4% in 1970 to 26.4% in 1983, indicative of the 
drift from rural areas to large cities. In 1980, 12 of the world's 25 largest 
cities were in the ESCAP region, and there is concern about the deterioration of 
living conditions in these metropoles. In general, however, increasing 
urbanization in the developing countries of the ESCAP region has not been 
directly linked to increasing industrialization, possibly because of the success 
of rural development programs. With the exception of a few low fertility 
countries, a large proportion of the region's population is concentrated in the 
younger age groups; 50% of the population was under 22 years of age in 1983 and 
over 1/3 was under 15 years. In 1983, there were 69 dependents for every 100 
persons of working age, although declines in the dependency ratio are projected. 
The region's labor force grew from 1100 million in 1970 to 1600 million in 1983; 
this growth has exceeded the capacity of country economies to generate adequate 
employment. The region is characterized by large variations in life expectancy 
at birth, largely reflecting differences in infant mortality rates. Whereas 
there are less than 10 infant deaths/1000 live births in Japan, the 
corresponding rates in Afghanistan and India are 203 and 121, respectively. 
Maternal-child health care programs are expected to reduce infant mortality in 
the years ahead. Finally, fertility declines have been noted in almost every 
country in the ESCAP region and have been most dramatic in East Asia, where 
1983's total fertility rate was 40% lower than that in 1970-75. Key factors 
behind this decline include more aggressive government policies aimed at 
limiting population growth, developments in the fields of education and primary 
health care, and greater availability of contraception through family planning 
programs.

PMID: 12267092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Genus. 1984 Jul-Dec;40(3-4):185-90.

Estimation of expectation of life at advanced ages.

Coale AJ.

Comments are presented on a formula developed by Enzo Lombardo "for the relation 
between the death rate above age a and the growth rate above age a (where a is 
an advanced age, above 55 or 60) on the one hand, and the expectation of life at 
age a on the other." Estimates obtained by this method are compared with results 
obtained by the method of S. Horiuchi and A. J. Coale. It is concluded that "the 
formula proposed by Horiuchi and [Coale] produces much more accurate estimates, 
with a maximum error of 0.03 years." The author describes a way in which 
Lombardo's method "can be modified to give estimates of precision comparable to 
the Horiuchi and Coale estimates." (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12267208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Genus. 1984 Jul-Dec;40(3-4):97-116.

Mortality levels in Liberia and policy implications: an application of the 
census survival ratio method.

Campbell EK.

PIP: Recent mortality estimates have indicated life expectancy in Liberia to be 
nearly 50 years, a figure much higher than that of neighboring countries. It is 
the author's belief that Liberian mortality has been understated. Therefore, in 
this study the census survival ratio method is applied to data from the official 
Liberian censuses of 1962 and 1974 for the purpose of obtaining more plausible 
mortality estimates for the decade between 1964 and 1974. The method does yield 
satisfactory mortality estimates, suggesting a life expectancy of 35-40 years. 
In view of the fact that mortality is shown to be high, the author proposes some 
measures that would be useful in lowering the mortality rate, especially among 
infants and children.

PMID: 12267214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Jun;14(2):32-4.

Family planning in the South Pacific.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This document provides excerpts from a speech on family planning in the 
South Pacific made by Francis Bugotu, the Secretary General of the South Pacific 
Commission, at the 2nd National Conference of the Australian Population 
Association in December, 1984. Mr. Bugotu argued that the most appropriate way 
to control population growth in the South Pacific Island is to promote 
responsible parenthood through education and the strengthening of indigenous 
traditions and values rather than through the intervention of nationally and 
internationally sponsored family planning programs. The population growth rate 
of the South Pacific Islands is 2.1%annum. There is considerable variation in 
growth rates, as well as in birth rates, in Pacific Island countries. Current 
birth rates range from 18 in Samoa to 45 in Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu. 
Recently, fertility levels began to fall in many of the countries. The decline 
is most clearly evidenced in Polynesian countries. In Melanesian countries, 
fertility rates remained constant in recent years. Death rates, which are 
largely a function of the population age structure, range from 4 in Guam and 
Fiji to 15 in Papua New Guinea. Death rates have been declining in most of the 
countries for several decades. Infant mortality ranges from 111 in Papua New 
Guinea to 16 in American Samoa. Declines in infant mortality were observed in 
many South Pacific countries in recent years. Life expectancy ranges from 50 in 
Papua New Guinea to 67 in American Samoa and the Cook Islands. Poverty is 
frequently attributed to rapid population growth; however, the major cause of 
poverty is a lack of educaction. Literacy and education encourages individuals 
to plan for the futuer and to be responsible parents. Neither urbanization nor 
emigration is an acceptable solution to population growth. Urbanization requires 
the creation of job opportunities, which in turn require the importation of 
capital. In the end, countries lose control over their own economies. Emigration 
could effectively stem population growth only if large numbers of people were 
involved. Furthermore, it is usually the most educated members of a society who 
emigrate; therefore, emigration results in the loss of needed valuable human 
resources. In the past, Pacific Island populations succeeded in keeping 
population size in balance with available natural resources. Many of the 
cultural institutions which limited population growth in the past have undergone 
change and some have disappeared. Research is needed to determine how 
traditional methods can be revived and strenghtened. Instead of instituting 
activist family planning interventions an effort should be made to gradually 
introduce culturally sensitive family planning in the context of maternal and 
child care servcies. Indigenous birth spacing practices should be strenghtened 
and, if necessary, combined with modern methods. This will ensure that mothers 
derive the health benefits associated with longer birth intervals while allowing 
couples to have enough children to ensure their own social position and te 
social position of their broader kin group. In conclusion, the solution to the 
population growth problem is to strenghten traditional institutions and to 
accept help from the outside only when that help is in accordance with the 
values and goals of the South Pacific Islanders.

PMID: 12267257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Estud Publicos. 1984 Spring;(16):73-116.

[Mortality as an index of social development].

[Article in Spanish]

Illanes JP.

PIP: The author examines the use of measures of mortality as indicators of 
social development. Separate consideration is given to general mortality, infant 
mortality, and life expectancy. He concludes that the Chilean and Latin American 
mortality data cannot be analyzed separately from the available social data as a 
whole, and that the traditional health indicators for the measurement of social 
development continue to be valid. Comments by Ernesto Medina, Dagmar Raczynski, 
Juan P. Illanes, and Tarsicio Castaneda are included (pp. 107-14), as well as a 
reply to these comments by the author (pp. 114-6).

PMID: 12267392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Int Demogr. 1985 Feb;4(2):1-9.

Metropolitan area of Rio de Janeiro.

Hakkert R.

PIP: Brazil's capital city, Rio de Janeiro, has been called Latin America's slum 
capital, and is slowly losing its political position to Brasilia and its 
cultural and economic leadership to Sao Paolo. Rio's metropolitan area includes 
14 municipalities and had a population of 9.64 million in 1984, making it Latin 
America's 4th largest and the world's 14th largest metropolitan area. The 
452-square mile central city contains 5.35 million people. Projections predict 
that Rio will be the world's 9th largest city in the year 2000, with a 
population of 13.3 million. Rio encompasses sharp social and economic contrasts; 
population density varies from 30,686 to 124 people per square mile and per 
capita municipal budgets range from $100 to $12.50. Like most metropolitan 
areas, Rio's suburbs show its greatest growth. The peripheral municipalities 
which held only 24% of the population in 1940, now have about 45%. Low land 
prices and government housing attact poor families to these areas which tend to 
be economically sluggish. Rio's fertility rate (2.8%) is the lowest in Brazil 
(4.2%) and life expectancy is somewhat higher than the national average. Low 
fertility and declining migration result in small households and increasing age 
structure. 2.2 million households, with 3.8 persons on an average, and 1.3 
million households, with 3.6 persons, inhabited the metropolitan area and its 
municipality, respectively. Less of Rio's population are black (10%) or of mixed 
descent (39%) than in the rest of Brazil; the population is 97% Brazilian-born. 
Most metropolitan homes are owner occupied, but Rio also has many highly visible 
slums. Rio has an 84% literacy rate; 5% of the population have university 
degrees. The area's geography requires massive daily movement by nearly 60% of 
the population, and several municpalities function largely as commuter towns. 
Service jobs (especially for women) account for 27% of all jobs with 
manufacturing and tourism next in importance. Median monthly income varies from 
$58-$238.50 thoughout the municipalities. Compared to other major international 
cities, Rio is an inexpensive city. At least 50% of households own radios, 
televisions, refrigerators, but cars and telephones are still luxuries.

PMID: 12267435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Sep;14(3):15-8.

Malaysia (country/area statements).

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to this statement presented to the Committee on Population of the 
UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, Malaysia by 1984 
achieved a crude death rate of 5.3/1000, an infant mortality rate of 17/1000 
live births, and a 1983 life expectancy at birth of 67.6 for males and 72.3 for 
females due primarily to socioeconomic development, better nutrition, and a 
health system covering 95% of the rural population. Substantial mortality 
differentials still exist between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak, 
between urban and rural areas, and among ethnic groups. Differences in the 
coverage and quality of mortality statistics also exist. 83.2% of Malaysia's 
total population of 15.5 million is in Peninsular Malaysia, 7.3% in Sabah, and 
9.5% in Sarawak. In Peninsular Malaysia, 55.1% are Malays, 33.9% Chinese, and 
10.3% Indians. About 40% of the population is urban, and 39% is under age 15. 
The average annual rate of growth declined from 2.6% in the 1960s to 2.3% in the 
1970s. The total fertility rate fell from 5.1 children in 1970 to 4.1 in 1980. A 
rise in age at 1st marriage and reduction in marital fertility have been partly 
offset by an increase in the proportion of women of childbearing age. The 
population is projected to grow to about 22 million by the year 2000. Chinese 
and Indians are expected to approach replacement level fertility by that year, 
but Malay fertility is expected to remain high for some time. Internal 
migration, 45% of which is intrarural, increased markedly in the 1970s, probably 
due to rapid modernization, industrialization, land development, and regional 
imbalances in economic development. In absolute terms a total of 410,000 persons 
moved from rural to urban areas during the 1970s. Important progress has been 
made in regional development programs, but further regional development requires 
resolution of problems related to internal migration and greater efforts to 
relocate industries in the less developed areas. The clinical approach adopted 
by the National Population and Family Development Board through 1973 has given 
way to a multisectorial and multidisciplinary integrated approach with emphasis 
on family development, family health, and family welfare. Clinical reproductive 
health services are made easily available to the population. Strategies include 
broadening of family planning services, integrating population with development 
planning, supporting projects to improve the status of women, and promoting 
research on fertility. Survey results indicate that knowledge of family planning 
methods is almost universal, while prevalence is estimated at around 50% of 
currently married couples. Malaysia's new population policy is designed to 
decelerate the rate of decline in population growth until replacement level 
fertility is achieved in the year 2070. An announcement by the Prime Minister 
suggests that Malaysia has the capacity to support 70 million inhabitants if the 
people are willing to work hard and be productive.

PMID: 12267449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Sep;14(3):19-2.

Nepal (country/area statements).

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to this statement presented to the Committee on Population of the 
UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, combined effects of 
continuing high fertility and declining mortality account for Nepal's current 
growth rate of 2.7%, which will produce a population of 25.4 million in the year 
2000, up from 9.4 million in 1961 and 15 million in 1981. Children under 15 
comprise over 40% of the population. The rapid expansion of public health 
facilities and successful efforts to control cholera, smallpox, and other 
communicable diseases account for an increase in life expectancy to an estimated 
46 for males and 44 for females. There has been no significant decline in 
fertility, and the total fertility rate is 6.3. The infant mortality rate of 
152/1000 live births is still very high. Population pressure in the mountains 
and hills has reduced the average size of individual family land holdings to 
less than .4 hectare, and average productivity of the land has fallen due to 
cultivation of marginal lands, landslides, loss of ground water, erosion, and 
nutritional deficiency of the soil. Wasteful forest cutting and soil erosion 
have occurred as the terai or plains have become more densely settled following 
the eradication of malaria and internal migration. Nepal adopted its 1st 
official population-related program in 1965 when the 3rd plan called for family 
planning to reduce the birth rate and help achieve balance between population 
and natural resources. During the 5th 5 year plan a multisectorial population 
policy aimed at managing spatial and temporal population distribution was 
adopted. The demographic target of the 6th plan was to reduce the total 
fertility rate to 5.8 by 1985. The population strategy recently formulated by 
the reconstituted National Commission on Population calls for reducing the 
growth rate from 2.6% to 1.2% in 15 years, integrating population and 
development programs in all sectors, increasing female literacy and employment 
rates, regulating immigration, and registering vital statistics. The family 
planning program is giving more emphasis to younger couples aged 20-30, who are 
offered a mix of temporary methods for child spacing. To combat the high drop 
out rate, all family planning programs will include IEC activities, and family 
planning service delivery programs have been extended. Maternal-child health 
programs, especially tetanus toxoid innoculation to prevent neonatal tetanus, 
