are also receiving high priority.

PMID: 12267450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Sep;14(3):8.

Hong Kong (country/area statements).

[No authors listed]

PIP: This description of Hong Kong's population situation presented to the 
Committee on Population of the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and 
the Pacific points out that Hong Kong has 1 of the highest population densities 
in the world, with 5.4 million persons in slightly over 1000 sq km. Although 
there is no officially stated population policy, the government supports the 
work of the Hong Kong Family Planning Association, a nongovernmental 
organization, through allocation of financial and other resources. In the 1960s 
and early 1970s, contraceptive services were available in clinic sessions 
operated by the Association in government clinics, but beginning in 1977, family 
planning became part of the Family Health Service Programme of the government 
medical and health services. The crude birth rate has declined from about 
35/1000 in the early 1960s to 14.4 in 1984 despite an increasing number and 
proportion of reproductive aged women. Fertility in Hong Kong had already 
reached replacement level by 1980, and the net reproduction rate declined to .7 
by 1984. The government has never set a family size norm, although the Family 
Planning Association promoted 2-child families in the past. The crude death rate 
has hovered around 4.8-5.0/1000 since the nation gained control over parasitic 
and infectious diseases in the late 1950s and early 1960s. In 1983, life 
expectancy at birth was about 73 for males and 78 for females. Migration has 
been controlled in recent years, allowing the population growth rate to decline 
from about 6.1% in 1979 to 1.0% in 1984. Hong Kong is now facing problems of 
population aging; the population aged 65 and over increased from only 2.8% of 
the total in 1961 to 7.4% in 1984. Efforts are continually underway to 
redistribute the overconcentrated urban population to the rural areas. New towns 
with full infrastructure and employment opportunities have been developed in the 
past 2 decades, and about .9 million people have been resettled in 6 major new 
towns in the New Territories.

PMID: 12267460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1985 Sep;14(3):9-10.

India (country/area statements).

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to this statement presented at the Committee on Population of the 
UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, India's population 
increased by 24.8% between the 1961 and 1971 censuses and by 25% between the 
1971 and 1981 censuses. The population was 685.2 million in 1981 and is 
projected to increase to 996.0 million in 2001. The growth rate is expected to 
decline to 2% during 1981-91 and to 1.6% from 1991-2001. Life expectancy at 
birth in 1980 was estimated at 54.1 for males and 54.7 for females. The national 
health policy envisages health as a vital component of overall integrated 
socioeconomic development but emphasizes the need to ensure adequate nutrition, 
safe drinking water and improved sanitation. The family welfare program is 
voluntary and involves intensive efforts to create awareness of population 
through multimedia and interpersonal channels and to provide a wide choice of 
contraceptives for eligible couples. Emphasis has been placed on increasing 
female literacy and on population education for youth. The goal is a net 
reproduction rate of 1 by the year 2000. Currently 40 million of the 126 million 
reproductive aged couples use an effective method of birth control. 
Sterilization continues to be an important method, but emphasis on spacing 
methods began at the outset of the 6th 5-year plan in 1980 and will continue 
during the 7th 5-year plan. Adequate training will be provided for rural health 
workers as part of the strategy to lower birth rates. The urban family welfare 
infrastructure will be strengthened to cover low-income population groups, and 
the mass media infrastructure is being restructured and strengthened. Efforts 
are underway to encourage participation in family planning by voluntary 
organizations. The medical education curriculum is undergoing revision to 
introduce formal family planning training. It is expected that the combined 
impact of improvement in social and economic living conditions and the national 
program of voluntary acceptance of family planning will lead to universal 
acceptance of the 2-child family norm by the year 2000.

PMID: 12267461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Int Demogr. 1985 Dec;4(12):1-4.

The Netherlands: country profile.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This discussion of the Netherlands covers the country's cities and regions, 
population growth, households and families, housing, contruction, and spatial 
planning; ethnicity and religion; education; labor force and income; 
consumption; and transport and communications. As a small and mineral poor 
nation with a seafaring tradition, the Netherlands survives on foreign trade. In 
1983, total export earnings amounted to nearly 62% of the entire national 
income. Over 72% of Dutch exports go to other member countries of the European 
Economic Community (EEC), but imports are more diversified, with 47% originating 
outside the EEC. Since 1848, the Netherlands has been a constitutional monarchy 
with a parliamentary form of government. As such, it is one of the most stable 
democracies in the world. The main administrative units are the 11 provinces, of 
which Noord-Holland and Zuid-Holland are the most populous and economically most 
important. Amsterdam remains the commercial center of the country, but its role 
as the principal port city has been taken over by Rotterdam. No community has 
more than 700,000 inhabitants, but the country as a whole is highly urbanized 
because of the large numbers of medium-sized cities. In 1983 the population of 
the Netherlands totaled 14.34 million, compared to 5.10 million at the turn of 
the century. In 1965, the total fertility rate was 3.0. The death rate has 
virtually stabilized at 8/1000. The Dutch life expectancy stands at 72.7 years 
for men and 79.4 for women (1983). Natural increase has already dropped to 0.4% 
a year. Apart from the slight impact of net immigration, the positive growth 
rate reflects the large proportion (53%) of the population in its reproductive 
years. Mean household sizes in the 11 provinces vary from 2.5 in Noord-Holland 
(in 1981) to nearly 3 in Overijssel and Noord-Brabant, whereas the proportion of 
1 person households ranges from 16% in Drenthe and 17% in the somewhat 
traditionalist southern provinces of Limburg and Noord-Brabant to 27% in 
Noord-Holland and 28% in Groningen. Only 26% of the Dutch own their own homes. 
The Netherlands has historically been a nation of little ethnic, religious, or 
cultural conflict. The central government finances education at all levels, 
making education and science the 2nd largest budget item (19%), preceded only by 
welare and social policy (22%). In 1983 the economically active population 
consisted of 3.8 million men and nearly 2 million women.

PMID: 12267462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Genus. 1985 Jan-Jun;41(1-2):39-55.

Mortality in Italy: contours of a century of evolution.

Caselli G, Vaupel JW, Yashin AI.

The authors construct contour maps of Italian male and female mortality rates 
for ages 0-79 for the years 1870-1979 using life table data from published 
sources. The maps "display persistent global and prominent local patterns of 
mortality, simultaneously over age, by period, and for cohorts." Previously 
documented aspects of the evolution of Italian mortality are highlighted 
graphically, and new areas for study are indicated. (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12267538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Int Demogr. 1986 Feb;5(2):1-9.

Republic of Italy (country profile).

Hakkert R.

PIP: This discussion of Italy focuses on the following: cities and regions; 
population growth; households and families; housing and construction; ethnicity 
and religion; education; economy and labor force; consumption; and transport and 
communications. Italy, with its total area of 116,374 square miles, is about the 
size of Florida and Georgia combined. Its 56.6 million people form the 2nd 
largest population in Western Europe, after West Germany, but slightly larger 
than Great Britain and France. The main administrative divisions are 20 regions, 
subdivided into 95 provinces. The provinces in turn are divided into 8090 
"comuni" or municipalities. The 6 cities with more than 500,000 people are Roma, 
Milano, Napoli, Torino, Genova, and Palermo. They account for 14% of the 
population. The 43 cities with between 100,000-500,000 account for another 13%. 
There are 373 middle-sized communities with between 20,000 and 100,000 people, 
accounting for 26% of population. Italy has a regional problem. The line 
separating the regions of Emilia Romagna, Toscana, Umbria, and Lazio from the 
regions to the south and east is important. The regions north of it hold 62% of 
the population but are responsible for 73% of the gross national product (GNP) 
and 78% of the industrial product. The regions to the south are economically 
much weaker. At the time of the last Italian census on October 25, 1981, the 
country counted 56.6 million inhabitants. Compared to 33.5 million at the turn 
of the century, this implies an average annual growth rate of .61%. Between 
1900-70, nearly 20 million Italians left their country. Most settled in the US, 
Argentina, and Brazil. Beginning in the 1960s, a new sort of migration was added 
as young Italians temporarily left to work in the more prosperous countries of 
northern Europe. The birthrate, which had declined slowly to 18/1000 during the 
1960s, fell more rapidly during the 1970s, to 10.9/1000 in 1981 and 10.3 in 
1984. The death rate in Italy has changed little since 1950. Presently, it 
hovers around 9.5/1000. With its low birthrate and outmigration of young adults, 
Italy is aging. The median age is about 34 years, and 13% of the population is 
aged 65 and older. Despite the stereotypical image of the large Italian family, 
household size in Italy, as in other industrialized nations, is declining, from 
a mean of 3.6 in 1961 to 3.4 in 1971 and 3.0 in 1981. Culturally, Italy is a 
homogeneous country. In 1984 there were 23 million people in Italy's work force. 
Among the economically inactive, 33% were younger than age 14, 30% were 
housewives, 23% were retired, and 11% were students. In 1984, average annual 
family income varied from the equivalent of about $15,900 in Emilia Romagna to 
$9,500 in Sicilia. Mean annual household budgets in 1983 varied from te 
equivalent of $11,950 in Lombardia to $7,400 in Molise, with a national average 
of $10,026.

PMID: 12267660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Cah Anal Donnees. 1984;9(2):129, 149-72.

[Analysis of numerical data on mortality and its causes in France from 1950 to 
1969].

[Article in French]

Botros-tawadrause F.

Official government data published in 1974 are used to examine mortality among 
children over one year of age and adults in France during the years 1950-1969. 
"On the synchronic level, the analysis shows which causes affect subjects 
according to age and sex, and indicates in particular the causes of greater than 
average masculine mortality. As far as the diachronic level is concerned, the 
period is dominated by the lengthening of life due to the almost total 
elimination of death due to infectious diseases, and to the improvement of 
medical treatment. It must be pointed out that the raw data were such as to rule 
out, as far as possible, irregularities due to the age pyramid." (summary in 
ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12267675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Am Stat. 1986 Aug;40(3):185-90.

Probabilistic approaches to current life table estimation.

Golbeck AL.

"Two simple current life table estimators of conditional probabilities of death 
result from making either a uniform or exponential distributional assumption of 
time at death in the age interval. Each is compared with Chiang's estimator 
based on the concept of fraction of the last age interval of life. Graphical and 
numerical results are presented to assess the magnitude and direction of 
differences between estimators when the true value of Chiang's fraction takes on 
specific values."

excerpt

PMID: 12267826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1986 Apr;(178):1-17.

[Population of Japan in the Meiji-Taishyo era: a reestimation].

[Article in Japanese]

Okazaki Y.

After reviewing previous estimates of the Japanese population in the pre-censal 
years from the 1860s to 1920, the author presents a reestimation for this period 
based on more recent studies in historical demography and on Coale and Demeny's 
regional model life tables. "The most important revision in the present 
estimation [is] that life-table death rates...for the Meiji-Taishyo era are 
estimated by Gompertz curves with upper and lower limits in place of the former 
linear curves." (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12267829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Aug:1-6.

Honduras.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This discussion of Honduras covers the following: the history of the 
country's demographic situation; the government's overall approach to population 
problems; population data systems and development planning; institutional 
arrangements for the integration of population within development planning; the 
goverment's view of the importance of population policy in realizing development 
objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; morbidity and 
mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. Between 
the censuses of 1910-40, Honduras grew at an average annual rate of more than 
1.5% per annum. The rate of population growth reached 2% per annum after 1940 
and 3% after about 1955. By 1970-75 the rate of natural increase was estimated 
to be about 3.5% per annum, due to the net effect of a crude birthrate of 
49/1000 and a crude death rate of about 14/1000. The rate of natural increase 
has remained around 3.5% in recent years, although the crude death rate has 
declined to 44/1000 and the crude death rate to about 10/1000. The government 
wants to substantially reduce the rate of population growth, primarily by means 
of modifying fertility and averting large-scale immigration of refugees in the 
future. It desires to reduce the country's high levels of mortality and to 
adjust patterns of spatial distribution, primarily to improve agricultural 
productivity and promote national economic intergration. The government also 
seeks to decrease the emigration of qualified personnel. In the past several 
years, the government of Honduras has increased its commitment to formulating 
and implementing explicit population policies as a means of attaining overall 
development objcetives. With a population of around 4.1 million inhabitants as 
of 1983, Honduras has been growing at an average annual rate of 3.4% in recent 
years. According to UN projections, the population is expected to grow to about 
7 million by 2000. The average life expectancy at birth for both sexes was 55.3 
years in 1974 and around 60 years as of 1982. The crude death rate was estimated 
to be 10/1000 during 1980-85; infant mortality declined from 117/1000 live 
births in 1971-72 to 86/1000 in 1978. Diarrheal disease is the single most 
important cause of death in Honduras, and mortality from other water-related 
diseases remains high in comparison with other Central American countries. 
Malnutrition also is serious. The government considers levels and trends of 
mortality to be unacceptable and is particularly concerned about the continuing 
high level of infant mortality. In recent years the crude birthrate averaged 
around 44/1000; the 1981 Contraceptive Prevalence Survey found the total 
fertility rate to be about 6.5 births/woman, which represents a 13% decline in 
the level of fertility between 1971-72 and 1981.

PMID: 12267832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Renkou Yanjiu. 1984 Sep 29;(5):25-31.

[A preliminary analysis of mortality in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang W.

PIP: An analysis of mortality trends in China, based on data from the 1982 
census, is presented. It shows that the mortality rate has gradually declined 
since 1949, but has recently leveled off and is now on the rise again. The main 
reasons for this decline were fewer deaths from disease and the changing age 
structure of the population. It is noted that the mortality rate varies from 
region to region, with infant mortality in border areas accounting for a large 
portion of total deaths. An increase in life expectancy has occurred as a result 
of declining mortality.

PMID: 12267860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Renkou Yanjiu. 1984 Sep 29;(5):40-3.

[The problem of the aged population in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang X.

PIP: The situation regarding the population of China over age 60 is reviewed. 
From 1953 to 1980 the aged population doubled in size, with the population in 
urban areas growing at a faster rate than in rural areas. The author notes that 
declining birth and mortality rates and longer life expectancy will cause the 
absolute number of the aged to increase. For China, each percentage point 
increase in the aged means an increase of 10 million aged people. As the ratio 
of the aged to the rest of the society becomes increasingly larger, China will 
become an aged society. Tables on age distribution and life expectancy are 
included.

PMID: 12267861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Sample Regist Bull. 1985 Jun;19(1):18-21.

Expectation of life at birth, for India and major states, 1976-80.

[Article in English, Hindi]

India. Office of the Registrar General.

Data are presented on life expectancy by sex for India and its constituent 
states for 1976-1980 using data from the Sample Registration System. "There is a 
wide variation among states in the expectation of life at birth. Uttar Pradesh 
has the lowest and Kerala has the highest expectation of life at birth. Within a 
state, the expectation of life at birth is higher for urban areas than for rural 
areas. Also the male expectation of life at birth is generally higher than 
female expectation in rural areas. However, the pattern is reversed in urban 
areas."

excerpt

PMID: 12267892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int Demogr. 1986 May;5(5):1-9.

The Republic of Zambia.

Hakkert R, Wieringa R.

PIP: In 1964, at independence, Zambia's economic future looked brighter than 
that of most other developing countries. Its copper production accounted for 8% 
of total world production, and only neighboring Zaire outpaced it in the 
production of cobalt. Its Central Province around Kabwe held rich deposits of 
both zinc and lead; uranium deposits also had been found, but their projected 
yield remained undetermined. Since 1974, the decline in the price of copper and 
the increase in the price of oil have played havoc with Zambia's balance of 
payments. Copper, which accounted for 40% of the gross national product (GNP) 
and 98% of all foreign exchange in 1964, shrank to 12% of the GNP in 1978 while 
still generating most of the foreign exchange. As a result, imports were cut 
back markedly from $1.5 billion in 1973 to $690 million in 1983. Although this 
trend is beginning to make a U-turn, Zambia's economic situation is grave. In 
1984 the GNP continued to register negative growth and inflation stood at 25%. 
With its urbanization rate doubling from 21% in 1964 to 43% in 1985, Zambia is 
now the most urbanized country south of the Sahara. Zambia's 1985 population is 
estimated to be 6.8 million. Between 1963 and 1969, the average annual 
population growth rate was 2.5: it was 3.1% between 1969-80. The current 
birthrate of about 48/1000 is expected to decline only marginally in the next 15 
years, but the death rate is declining more rapidly -- from 19/1000 in the late 
1960s to 15/1000 in 1985. Life expectancy is expected to rise from the current 
51 years to about 58 years. As a result of the high growth rate, Zambia's 
population is young, with a median age of about 16.3 years. Traditional African 
values stress the importance of large families. Zambia's total fertility rate 
was 6.9 in 1985. According to the World Bank, only 1% of married women of 
childbearing age in 1982 used contraceptives. Although tribal links are 
weakening, Zambia still counts 73 officially recognized tribes. Together, they 
speak about 40 different dialects. Zambia now apportions over 15% of its 
national budget to education. Despite some noticeable progress, the public 
health structure remains deficient. Principal health problems include malaria, 
tuberculosis, and, in Northern Province and Luapula Province, sleeping sickness 
and river blindness. About 2/3 of the labor force, an estimated 2.2 million 
persons in 1982, still work in agriculture. Female labor force participation is 
lower in Zambia than in many African nations.

PMID: 12267904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Notas Poblacion. 1986 Aug;14(41):113-33.

[Orphans and adult mortality. The example of France between 1740 and 1829].

[Article in Spanish]

Bideau A.

The relationship between adult mortality and the proportion of orphans in France 
in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries is analyzed. Data are from a research 
project developed at the Institut National d'Etudes Demographiques [INED] and 
concern data for some 400 communes, together with life tables developed for the 
periods 1740-1749 and 1820-1829. "This paper is divided in two chapters. The 
first chapter examines the different proportions of orphans, observed in the 
above mentioned periods. The second one confronts these proportions with 
comparable values derived from mortality tables." Consideration is given to the 
relationship between parents' death and timing of marriage of

excerpt

PMID: 12268024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1986 Jul;6(1):41-56.

[[Labor force life tables: an analysis of the Korean female labor force]].

[Article in Korean]

Kim H.

"This study attempts to analyze the quantitative aspects of the female labour 
force in [the Republic of] Korea, 1970 and 1980, by constructing a series of 
labour force life tables which are useful in studying the process of the growth 
and structural change of the labour force." Data are primarily taken from the 
census. Factors affecting women's entry into and exit from the labor force are 
analyzed, including fertility, age of children, and marital status. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12268047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1986 Jul;(179):16-34.

[[An analysis of the relationship between nuptiality and fertility in Japan, 
1961-2000, through macro-simulation]].

[Article in Japanese]

Atoh M, Itoh T, Kojima H.

PIP: The relationship between nuptiality and fertility in Japan since 1961 is 
examined using a macro-simulation model originally developed by Tatsuya Itoh. 
The model utilizes both survey and vital statistics data and calculates marriage 
duration from vital events. Life table methods for projecting marriage trends 
and the Coale-McNeil nuptiality model for projecting first marriages are also 
employed. The model is used to project nuptiality trends up to the year 2000, 
and to date, has proved particularly successful in the analysis of trends in 
divorce.

PMID: 12268071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1986 May;(9):31-47.

[[Cohort analysis of mortality from three major adult diseases]].

[Article in Japanese]

Shigematsu T, Hisanaga F, Nanjo Z.

The authors present cohort mortality rates for Japan by five-year age interval 
for all causes of death and for malignant neoplasms, cerebrovascular disease, 
and heart disease. The calculations are based on vital statistics data for 
1947-1982 and period and cohort life tables for 1891-1982 published by Zenjo 
Nanjo and Kazumasa Kobayashi. "Ratios of individual cause to all causes in each 
age were calculated and applied to [a] mortality matrix derived from 
Nanjo-Kobayashi's life tables. Age-specific period and cohort mortality rates 
for each cause were calculated from [the] cause-specific mortality matrix.... 
Trends and age patterns of cohort mortalities and ratios of mortalities in 
successive cohort and age group were investigated." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12268091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Educafrica. 1985 Jun;(12):133-42.

Population education in Africa--the case of Nigeria.

Akinlaye FA.

PIP: In an awareness of the large young Nigerian population and the felt need 
for population education for the country, the Nigerian Educational Research 
Council (NERC) fomulated a comprehensive program on population education for 
both the in-school and out-of-school sectors of the country's education system 
in 1981. An expert steering committee sought to 1) define population education 
in the Nigerian context, 2) identify its goals, and 3) determine the major 
program areas which would become the foci of a population education project for 
Nigeria. The population education program seeks to increase awareness and 
understanding of 1) basic demographic processes as applied to one's family, 
community, the country, and the world; 2) effects of population change and 
growth on the social, economic, and environmental life of the society; 3) 
population and family size pressures on quality of life factors; and 4) 
population dynamics that the individual affects through personal behavior. If 
population education is to reach the largest number of pupils in the in-school 
sector, it should be introduced at the elementary school level. Out-of-school 
education programs include adult education, literacy classes, labor training and 
education, agricultural extension classes, food and nutrition campaigns, mother 
and child health care, environmental education, and rural development programs. 
NERC hopes that through this population education program, all the decision 
making organs of the government will be sensitized on the interrelationships of 
demographic processes and the socioeconomic development of the nation. The 
council will ensure, through appropriate review of curriculum, that population 
education concepts are fully incorporated into the textbooks and other 
curriculum materials for use in schools.

PMID: 12268114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Marga. 1986;8(2):67-76.

Unemployment tables and unemployment-free working life: Sri Lanka.

Krishnan P.

PIP: This paper demonstrates the use of the life table model to depict gross and 
net tables of unemployment in a country, using Sri Lanka as an example. Age 
specific data on employment in Sri Lanka are analyzed using the lfe table 
technic. Unemployment-free working life declined for both males and females 
between 1963 and 1971, indicating deteriorating employment conditions. This 
measure shows the employment situation in a country better than the simple rates 
of unemployment or the conventional working life expectancy. It also shows 
working life from the point of view of the production of goods and services.

PMID: 12268132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Int Demogr. 1986 Aug;5(8):1-4.

The Republic of Panama.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Panama's open financial system, skilled labor force, adequate 
infrastructure, and export-oriented commercial sector give it a greater prospect 
for recovery from Latin America's economic crisis than other countries. 
Indicators such as average daily caloric rate, population per health care 
worker, per capita income, total fertility rate, life expectancy, and percent of 
population under 15 years are more favorable in Panama than neighboring 
countries. However, economic growth is at present being undermined by internal 
and external debt, unemployment, high labor costs, and a rising trade deficit. 
Real per capita output has stagnated since 1980 and growth in the gross domestic 
product stood at 4.4% in 1982. Over 60% of married women in Panama use modern 
contraceptive methods, making the birth rate of 28/1000 the lowest in Central 
America. Panama's growth rate is expected to be 1.9%/year until the year 2000, 
at which point the population is projected to be 3 million. The infant mortality 
rate was 26/1000 in 1985, comparable to that in developed countries. Of concern 
has been rapid urbanization. 54% of the total population in 1980 lived in urban 
areas, and 66% of the urban population is concentrated in Panama City. Another 
concern is the tremendous gap between the rich and the poor in Panama. In 1980, 
the poorest 20% of the population received only 2.7% of total income, while the 
richest 20% received 60.3%. Such inequality has been somewhat compensated for by 
above average health services, a national sanitation program to provide safe 
drinking water, and strong government support for public education. Female labor 
force participation rates are higher in urban areas, but tends to be 
concentrated in the low-paying service sector. To absorb additions to the labor 
force, the economy needs to grow by 7.5%/year.

PMID: 12268220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Int Demogr. 1986 Aug;5(8):5,8.

Demographic tensions in Central America.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This discussion of Central America focuses on the rapid growth of its 
population, its stagnating economy, and those countries that are 
socioeconomically advanced. Between 1950-85 the population of Central America 
tripled, from 9.1 million to 26. 4 million, due to marked mortality declines and 
the absence of off-setting fertility declines. The distribution of Central 
Americas's growing populations sets its population growth apart from that of 
other developing regions. Currently, almost half of all Central Americans live 
in cities. Although the average growth rate for Central American countries has 
fallen and is expected to drop further, the decline does not counterbalance the 
effect of the absolute rise in population numbers. The average annual growth 
rate of more than 3% annually in the 1960s fell to about 2.6% in recent years, 
but this decline is due primarily to socioeconomically advanced Costa Rica and 
Panama. Central America's age structure further complicates the population 
crisis. About 43% of Central Americans are under the age of 15. When the 
increasingly larger young population group enters it reproductive years, the 
potential for future growth (albeit the falling rate of population increase) is 
unparalleled. UN population projections show the region's population at 40 
million by the year 2000. The 1973 oil crisis began a downward spiral for the 
buoyant post World War II Central American economy. Between 1950-79, real per 
capita income growth in Central America doubled, with Central American economies 
growing an average of 5.3% annually. By the early 1980s, overseas markets of the 
trade-dependent countries of Central America had dried up due to protectionism 
abroad and slumping basic commodity prices. These and other factors plunged 
Central America into its current economic malaise of falling real per capita 
income, rising unemployment, curtailed export led economic growth, and a rising 
cost of living. In general, economic growth in Central America 
disproportionately benefits high and middle income groups, thereby widening the 
already large gap between rich and poor. Average per capita income for the 
poorest 20% of Central Americans is $90 a year (in 1970 US dollars); over half 
subsist on an average of $200 a year. Central America's economic crisis is 
further intensified by the marked increase in the economically active 
population. Doubling in size from about 2.1 million in 1970 to 4.2 million in 
1985, the labor force increasingly pressures an economy already weakened by high 
unemployment and underemployment. Socioeconomically advanced Costa Rica and 
Panama are Central America's notable exceptions. Life expectancy at birth and 
infant mortality rates for these better off countries, e.g., are comparable to 
those of developed countries. Costa Ricans enjoy the most equitable 
distributional income of all Central Americans. Panama's income differential is 
1 of the widest in the world, but its relative wealth affords more for each of 
its citizens.

PMID: 12268221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Maandstat Bevolking. 1986 Nov;34(11):52-61.

[Parity progression ratios, 1970-1985].

[Article in Dutch]

De Jong AH.

"In this article, parity progression ratios are computed for the Netherlands 
using the so called 'life table model'. The reason for applying a new method is 
that 'traditional' cross-sectional methods...sometimes produce unrealistic 
values.... With the life table model using age-parity specific fertility...such 
unrealistic values are made impossible." It is found that "during the period 
1970-1985, the percentage of women without children shows a permanent increase 
from 10 to 25 percent. Between 1970 and 1975, the share of birth order 3+ drops 
from 46 to 18%, after which it tends to stabilize." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12268225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Tiers Monde (1960). 1986 Apr-Jun;27(106):339-55.

[Government policies and actions in Burundi in the area of rural development].

[Article in French]

Mworoha E.

PIP: This article discusses policies and actions designed by the government of 
Burundi to assure food self-sufficiency and to improve living conditions in 
rural areas. Burundi has had a long history of food self-sufficiency due to good 
soils, adequate rainfall, and hard work by the rural population. In the past 3 
decades, however, the food supply has been threatened by various factors 
including soil erosion and rapid population increase. The government has 
undertaken a reforestation program which covered 51,050 hectares in the past 7 
years with plans to cover 20% of the national territory by the year 2000. Work 
has also been done to contain rivers within their courses and to popularize 
antierosion techniques such as terracing and proper use of pastures. Partly 
because the population is growing at a rate of 2.7% per year, the average plot 
available per household is estimated at only 1.3 hectare, rendering efforts to 
improve productivity imperative. The high cost of chemical fertilizers has 
forced reliance on compost, and some 6 million compost heaps are now in 
existence. Agropastoral integration projects are seeking to improve yields 
through better combinations of livestock and land use. Research to improve the 
seed supply has already resulted in improved strains of rice, maize, wheat, 
kidney beans, manioc, sweet potatoes, cotton, tea and coffee. Regional seed 
production centers are planned to facilitate distribution and adaptation of 
seeds to each ecological zone. Research is underway to identify appropriate new 
crops and to extend the ranges of existing crops. To encourage participation of 
the rural population in agricultural improvement efforts, the government is 
financing schools and institutions which will train local level agricultural 
promoters and extension agents. Local governments at all levels, regional 
development societies, cooperatives and other structures are also being 
organized to assist farmers. In order to restructure and modernize the rural 
environment, the government has invested heavily in agricultural development and 
the prices of agricultural products have been raised repeatedly since 1976. 
Improved road networks and other infrastructure, provision of credit for 
agricultural improvements, and provision of affordable building materials and 
housing credits are among related efforts. Health interventions such as an 
immunization program which has achieved 50% coverage through 17 medical centers 
have caused some decline in the infant mortality rate. By the year 2000 
according to current plans there will be 300 health centers or 1/10,000 
population, and 35 hospitals compared to the 29 currently operating. The number 
of physicians has increased from 111 in 1980 to 216 in 1984 following addition 
of a medical school to the University of Burundi. The number of medical 
technicians has increased from 450 to 555, of auxiliary nurses from 453 to 575, 
of sanitary technicians from 11 to 28. In pursuit of the government objective of 
basic education for all children by 1987, the number of students increased from 
159,729 in 1979-80 to 296,672 in 1983-84. Practical work in agriculture, 
artisanry, and other areas is to be introduced, and classes will be conducted in 
local language rather than French. Centers for nonformal education are also 
being introduced. Attempts are being made to assure that rural development 
efforts are in harmony with the culture and social aspects of life in the 
countryside.

PMID: 12268240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Sudan J Popul Stud. 1984 Jan;1(2):75-88.

Population projections for the Sudan: the need to quantify the future.

Kinzett S.

PIP: This paper presents the results of population projections for the Sudan 
based on simple estimates of the total fertility rate and life expectancy at 
birth. The projections were calculated through use of the POPTRAN micro-computer 
package that can provide projections for up to 100 years. The starting data were 
derived from United Nations Assessment statistics for 1985. 4 separate 
projections were prepared, based on different assumptions about the extent of 
reduction in the total fertility rate between 1985 and 2085. Under each of these 
4 scenarios, however, the life expectancy at birth is assumed to rise from 49 
years in 1985 to 65 years in 2085. The 2nd scenario, which assumes the total 
fertility rate is reduced from its present level of 6.56 to 4.00 by the year 
2035 and then remains at 4.00 until 2085, is considered most likely. This model 
produces population increases from 21 million in 1985 to 32 million in the year 
2000, 73 million in 2035, and 194 million in 2085. The annual growth rate would 
reach a level slightly under 2% by 2035. The generation of long-term projections 
dramatically underscores the social and economic changes that must take place 
even if the total fertility rate is reduced to 4 to meet the increased need for 
schools, hospitals, jobs, and services.

PMID: 12268381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Keio Econ Stud. 1986;23(1):21-47.

Is Japan following Europe towards a society of singles? Possible impacts of the 
rapid increase in life expectancy on Japanese social structure--as seen by a 
European historical-demographer.

Imhof AE.

PIP: The author examines the implications of increasing longevity for social 
development in Japan. He suggests that Japan is following the example set by 
Europe, in that almost universal longevity is leading to a focus on individual 
rather than societal well-being.

PMID: 12268390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Rev Cent Estud Demograficos. 1985;(27):47-136.

[Population characterization of Timor-East].

[Article in Portuguese]

Carvalho AC.

PIP: The population characterization of Timor-East, Province of Portugal, is 
described from the demographic and socioeconomic point of views. Although 
several population censuses had been carried out in the Portuguese province, 
only the results from the 1970 census provide an analysis of the population 
characteristics. According to the results of the 1970 census, the population had 
grown 1.6%/year between 1950-70. 50% of the population was less than 20 years 
old in 1970, and only 4% were elderly. Marriage was very common. 93.1% of the 
women and 92.8% of the men were married. 3 out of 4 people followed the Animist 
or Buddhism religions and only 25% were Catholics. 90.4% of the surveyed 
population were illiterate. The poverty is reflected by the low mean of life 
expectancy: 45 years. Fecundity rate was 5.1 children/woman. With the hypothesis 
of a natural and constant population growth, the Timor-East should have had 
around 840 thousand people in 1980, and doubling beginning of next century. 
Nevertheless, history shows a different reality. Because of the civil war and 
invasion and later occupation of the Province by the Indonesian forces, the 
population reached only 550 thousand in 1980.

PMID: 12268421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Probl Econ. 1987 Jun;30(2):5-21. doi: 10.2753/pet1061-199130025.

The human factor in demographic measurement.

Vishnevskii A.

PIP: The author discusses aspects of current demographic trends in the USSR. 
Attention is given to developments affecting life expectancy, the size and age 
structure of the population, labor supply, and the family, as well as to 
demography and population policy.

DOI: 10.2753/pet1061-199130025
PMID: 12268430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Maandstat Bevolking. 1987 Jun;35(6):21-30.

[Marriage dissolution tables by duration of marriage, 1971-1975, 1976-1980, and 
1981-1985].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: Marriage dissolution tables for the Netherlands are presented for the 
periods 1971-1975, 1976-1980, and 1981-1985 using official data. Changes in the 
duration of marriage over time and in its likelihood of termination by death or 
divorce are noted. Consideration is also given to the validity of the marriage 
dissolution quotients on which the estimates of marriage duration are based. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12268475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Boll Demogr Stor. 1987;(4):43-58.

[Mortality at the end of the sixteenth century according to the data of Jean 
Hudde].

[Article in Italian]

Lombardo E.

PIP: The author presents survival probability and mortality information for 
Holland in the late sixteenth century based on life annuity data for the years 
1586-1590, examined by Jean Hudde and discussed in a letter he wrote in 1671 to 
Christiaan Huygens.

PMID: 12268631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Demografie. 1987;29(2):97-106.

[Program goal access and optimization in demography].

[Article in Czech]

Pavlik Z, Kuchar I.

PIP: The authors discuss factors that need to be considered in the development 
of population policy. Aspects considered include goals relative to infant 
mortality, life expectancy, differential mortality by sex, completed fertility, 
and changes in age distribution. The authors note that it is difficult to 
establish goals concerning spatial distribution, migration, population 
reproduction, and population quality. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12268635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Popul Res. 1986 Apr;3(2):35-8, 27.

Changes in elderly population and the elderly mortality of the Haimen county.

Yang S.

PIP: This paper examines trends of changes in population size, composition, 
mortality, main causes of death, survival probability, and average life 
expectancy of the elderly population aged 60 and over in Haimen County (an 
agricultural county located on the north bank of the Yangtse Delta), China. The 
study covers the 16 year period from 1968 to 1983. Persons aged 60 and over 
increased from 84,699 in 1968 to 114,015 in 1983, an increase of 34.61%. The 
fertility rate dropped from 118/1000 in 1968 to 38.18/1000 in 1983. The decline 
in fertility is the main cause for the increase in the proportion of the elderly 
in the population. The death rate of the elderly population was 40.95 in 1968 
and 43.75 in 1983, with a higher rate among males than females. Deaths among the 
elderly accounted for 46.8% of total deaths in 1968 and 73.1% in 1983. The 3 
main causes of death among the elderly were cardiovascular diseases, respiratory 
diseases, and malignant tumors in 1974 and cardiovascular diseases, malignant 
tumors, and respiratory diseases in 1983. These 3 causes of death accounted for 
69.71% of the total elderly deaths in 1974 and 83% in 1983.

PMID: 12268651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Popul Res. 1986 Apr;3(2):39-45.

An indirect method of infant mortality estimation in China.

Luo M.

PIP: Using model life tables to estimate infant mortality is subject to error 
becausee 1) mortality patterns vary greatly in different countries and 2) the 
model life table itself has strong smoothing and adjusting functions. In the 
absence of independent figures on infant mortality, the model life table 
provides at least a high or low estimate. When censuses or sample surveys 
provide indirect information about mortality, relatively accurate death rates 
can be obtained by indirect estimation. The model life table serves as a major 
tool for the use of these methods. China's 3rd population census included a 
question on how many children (live births) were born to women who had reached 
childbearing age. The number of libe births and the number of surviving 
children, when grouped by women's ages, is useful for estimating the mortality 
of young age groups. Data from the 10% tabulation of this census show that 1) 
the proportion of deceased children per live birth for women aged 15-19 is 
extremely high, possibly due to sampling errors; and 2) infant mortality 
increases gradually from age group 35-39 up, showing a decline in infant 
mortality. It is feasible to make indirect estimates of long-term changes in 
China's infant mortality, but more sex-specific, region-specific, and 
nationality-specific estimates should be made.

PMID: 12268652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1985 Jun;19(1):10-27.

Factors determining decline in sex ratio in Kuwaiti population.

El-shalakani M.

PIP: The sex ratio in the Kuwaiti population has declined from 109.1 in 1961 to 
98.5 in 1985. 5 factors which influenced this change in sex ratio in the Kuwaiti 
population are 1) sex differentials in errors in census counts, 2) migration, 3) 
sex ratio at birth, 4) sex differentials in mortality, or 5) mixed marriages. 
Results show that only the mortality differential between Kuwaiti males and 
females and the mixed marriages of Kuwaitis with non-Kuwaitis contributed to the 
70% decline in sex ratio during the period 1975-1980. The impact of errors in 
census counts on sex ratio could not be precisely estimated in the absence of 
post enumeration surveys. The influence of birth order and maternal age on sex 
ratio was also studied through regression analysis and by linear and quadratic 
models; results suggest a nonlinear relationship. No trend in sex ratio at birth 
was found by the author, and study of Kuwaiti migration shows it to be 
irrelevant for Kuwaiti nationals.

PMID: 12268715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Janasamkhya. 1986 Dec;4(2):115-21.

A measure of mortality based on life expectancies.

Mitra S.

"Two alternative measures of mortality have been proposed in this paper. These 
are (a) the average age of the stationary population, and (b) the area covered 
by the life expectancy function. The former has been shown to be equal to the 
average number of years remaining to be lived by the stationary population and 
as such can be used as a measure of mortality.... The usefulness of the latter 
is also obvious, based as it is on the values of the life expectancies at all 
ages instead of that at birth alone." The measures are estimated for seven 
selected countries.

excerpt

PMID: 12268729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Janasamkhya. 1986 Dec;4(2):123-35.

Sampling errors and correlations in a fertility simulation.

Barrett JC.

PIP: This paper presents simulations of reproductive histories by the Monte 
Carlo model, checking several conditions of fecundability and heterogeneity, to 
calculate sampling errors of fertility rates and correlation between birth 
intervals. Four simulations were run: Sri Lankan married women (data from a 
cohort of women married at age 20-24 from the World Fertility Survey of 1975), 
compared to natural fertility with breastfeeding, each at constant fecundability 
and heterogeneous fecundability. Standard deviations and coefficients of 
variation increased with age, but did not increase very much with heterogeneity 
of fecundability between women. Coefficients of variation increased from 0.04 at 
age 20-24 to about 0.1 at age 45 with no family planning, or from 0.05 to about 
0.2 with family planning. Using binomial models, the results were too variable 
to fit all age groups at once. Birth interval distributions and correlations 
were calculated between the same 4 cases and births 2 orders apart. Correlations 
were somewhat higher and significantly positive where heterogeneity of 
fecundability was included. They were about 0.2 for natural fertility and 
slightly less where family planning occurs, approximately the size reported for 
data for 9 developing countries.

PMID: 12268730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Popul Today. 1987 Nov;15(11):12.

Spotlight: Cote d'Ivoire.

Patriquin W.

PIP: The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire's 1986 population was estimated at 10.8 
million, with a 3.0% rate of natural increase. In 1986, there were 46 
births/1000 population and 15 deaths/1000. The total fertility rate was 6.7. 
Infant mortality stood at 105/1000 live births, and life expectancy at birth was 
52 years. Since independence in 1960, Cote d'Ivoire has been one of the most 
prosperous countries in Africa, with nearly 7% annual growth in the 1960-80 
period. The agricultural sector, which employs about 3/4 of the labor force, 
produces coffee, cocoa, and timber for export. The country is also one of the 
world's largest producers of palm oil, and the government is seeking to achieve 
self-sufficiency in rice production by the end of 1987. The gross national 
product per capita was US$620 in 1986. The government aims to increase fertility 
through the provision of social welfare services such as child allowances and 
maternity benefits. The population growth rate has increased from 3.64/year in 
the 1965-75 period to 4.3%/year since 1975. If current trends persist, the 
population of Cote d'Ivoire will have doubled in 20 years. Immigration has also 
contributed to increase the overall rate of population growth, rising from 
75,000/year in 1965-75 to a current figure of 94,000/year. The proportion of 
aliens in the population is expected to increase from 25% in 1980 to over 30% by 
1990.
