
PMID: 12268738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Int Migr. 1987 Mar;25(1):41-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1987.tb00124.x.

Birds of passage no more: migration decision making among Filipino immigrants in 
Hawaii.

Arnold F.

PIP: Using data primarily from the Honolulu Destination Survey (HDS), which is 
part of the Philippine Migration Study (a study of a migration system that has 
its origins in Ilocos Norte, a largely rural province in the Philippines), the 
author examines migration decision making among Philippine immigrants in Hawaii. 
The HDS, conducted in 1981, interviewed 1484 residents of Honolulu who 
immigrated from the Ilocos Region after the US immigration law was liberalized 
in 1965. Results from the Philippine Migration Study (PMS) survey show that of 
those who did not have any intentions to move within 2 years in 1980, 88% did 
not move between 1980 and 1982. Of those who said they were certain to move 
within 2 years, 54% actually moved, while only 36% who were fairly certain and 
31% who were uncertain moved. Virtually all of those who actually moved to 
Hawaii from 1980-1982 had intended to move to Hawaii in 1980. It thus appears 
that most migration is planned well in advance. For those who have already 
migrated, their behavior in the destination is influenced by their expectations 
about future migration. An estimated 20-38.7% of legal immigrants to the US from 
the Philippines in 1971 had emigrated as of January 1979. 49% of HDS respondents 
said that they did not intend to move out of Hawaii any time in the future. 
Among those who intend to move in the future, 69% want to return to Ilocos and 
26% intend to move to the US mainland. 40% want to leave Hawaii for economic 
reasons and 27% for affiliation purposes. The value expectancy framework used in 
the PMS measures expectations of achieving one's most important goals in 
alternative locations. The analysis employs both binomial and multinomial logit 
analysis to identify significant determinants of future migration intentions. 
The 7 conceptual categories are: wealth, status, comfort, stimulation, autonomy, 
affiliation, and morality. 90% consider "having a peaceful life" followed by 
"getting ahead in the world" the most important values. Wealth items are next, 
followed by comfort variables. Affiliation items are moderately important. 
Autonomy and morality are considerably less important and stimulation is least. 
The author examines the following determinants of future intentions in a 
multivariate framework: 1) adjustment problems, 2) continuing contacts with the 
Philippines, 3) previous migration history, and 4) sociodemographic factors. 
This study suggests that the Ilocano immigrants will continue to develop strong 
ties to Hawaii since only a small proportion intend to move out of the state any 
time in the future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1987.tb00124.x
PMID: 12268817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Popul Today. 1987 Sep;15(9):12.

Iran: spotlight.

Roudi N.

PIP: Given its location between Asia and Asia Minor, Iran has been a country of 
strategic political importance throughout history. More than 98% of Iran's 
population is Moslem. During the early 20th century, as Iran gradually gained 
independence from the USSR and Turkey, a modernization process was begun. 
However, this modernization process was forced to yield to Islamic 
traditionalism after the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Women have been most affected 
by this change. The implementation of Islamic traditions has meant low job 
opportunity or motivation for continuing education among women. Although 
fertility remains high, the present government is satisfied with the current 
rate of population growth. Family planning is allowed if implemented within the 
framework of Islamic law, but abortion is illegal. Mortality fell substantially 
after World War II, but has not continued to decline. At present, both males and 
females have the same life expectancy at birth. Iran's population is growing at 
a rate of 4%/year, and can be expected to double in another 21 years. It has 
been projected that Iran, currently the 21st largest country in the world with a 
population of 50 million, will become the 15th largest with a population of 97 
million by the year 2025. Tehran, the 20th largest city in 1985, is projected to 
be the 9th largest by the year 2000, with a population of 13.6 million.

PMID: 12268893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Consum Mark Abroad. 1987 Nov;6(11):1-9.

Portugal: setting new goals for growth.

Cutler B.

PIP: Portugal has entered a period of economic recovery spearheaded by Prime 
Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva. A slow but steady rise in the standard of living 
may finally offset the 0.9% annual growth in the country's population. Growth in 
the gross national product (GNP) reached 5% in 1987 and fixed capital investment 
increased 9.5% in 1986. Cavaco Silva's economic recovery program has included 
entry into the Common Market, foreign investment in industry, attention to the 
enormous public debt, and dismantling of the state-centered economy of the 
1970s. Per capita GNP increased from US$743 in 1985 to $1970 in 1986 and 
unemployment had fallen to 8.5% by 1988. The prolongation of average life 
expectancy to 68 years for men and 75 years for women indicates a general 
improvement in the health and lifestyle of most Portuguese. By the year 2000, 
the population of Portugal is expected to reach 11.1 million, with the largest 
rates of growth occurring in the west and coastal areas. Half of the population 
falls into the 25-64-year age group, suggesting potential for economic growth 
and spending. A low rate of urbanization (30%) has complicated attempts to raise 
the level of technology in industry. Strong adherence to Catholicism is largely 
responsible for the exceptionally high marriage rate and low divorce rate in 
Portugal. The average birth rate was 14.5/1000 in 1987 and the average total 
fertility rate was 2.1. 34% of all births are to women 20-24 years old. The 
annual mortality rate is 9.6/1000, while infant mortality stands at 17.8/1000. A 
significant change occurring in Portugal in the current period is the rise of a 
new middle class.

PMID: 12268922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Demogr Issled. 1987;11:109-13.

[The study of the possibility of increasing the average duration of working life 
(the example of the Ukrainian SSR)].

[Article in Russian]

Foigt NA.

PIP: The author examines the possible future impact of mortality decline in the 
Ukrainian SSR, with a focus on the effects on increased duration of working 
life. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12269009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1987 May;(10):43-53.

[[Demographic data and spline interpolation]].

[Article in Japanese]

Nanjo Z.

Five formulas of spline interpolation and their applications to demographic data 
are introduced. "The formulas are applied to (1) interpolating and smoothing 
values of life table functions....(2) interpolating births by five-year age 
groups of mothers into single ages....(3) interpolating cause-specific deaths by 
five-year age groups into single ages....[and] (4) interpolating and smoothing 
two-dimensional demographic data e.g. mortality rates and expectations of life 
by year and age." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12269023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Perspect Int Planif Fam. 1987;(Spec No):37-8.

[There are many variations in beginning and duration of the procreative period].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PIP: Although most women in the developing world begin to have children at early 
ages and have their last child at a relatively late age, there are wide 
variations between regions and countries in the beginning and duration of the 
childbearing period. A UN report based on data from fertility histories of women 
aged 40-49 in World Fertility Surveys from 38 developing countries analyzed the 
differences within and between regions in such factors as age at 1st marriage, 
ages at 1st and last births, and family size. 12 of the countries studied were 
in Africa, 13 were in Asia and Oceania, and 13 were in Latin America and the 
Caribbean. The average age at first marriage was 18-21 in Latin American and the 
Caribbean, 15-19 in Africa, and 12-19 in Asia and Oceania. The average age at 
1st birth was 19-21 in Latin America and the Caribbean, 18-21 in Africa, and 
17-22 in Asia and Oceania. The average age at the last birth was 33-38 in Latin 
American and the Caribbean, 35-39 in Africa, and 35-40 in Asia and Oceania. The 
average duration of the childbearing period was 14-18 years in Latin America and 
the Caribbean, 16-20 years in Africa, and 15-20 years in Asia and Oceania. Women 
in Latin America tend to marry and have their 1st child later than women in the 
other regions. Asia had the widest variation in average ages at marriage and 
birth of the 1st child. The intervals between marriage and 1st birth were 
considerably longer in countries where women marry at young ages than in 
countries where women marry later. As a consequence there was less variation in 
age at 1st birth than in age at 1st marriage. In most of Latin America, women 
conceive their 1st child at 20-21 years, while in most Africa countries they do 
so between 19-20 years. A variation of 8 years was seen in the average age at 
birth of the last child. The average duration of the childbearing period is 
shortest in Latin America because of the relatively late age at birth of the 1st 
child and the relatively early age at birth of the last child. The final family 
size exceeded 5 children/woman in all the countries and was over 7 in 12 of the 
38. There was a pronounced correlation between the average family size and the 
age at the last birth. Family size was also correlated with the duration of the 
childbearing period. The use of modern contraception may influence the age at 
birth of the last child and consequently the duration of the childbearing 
period. Because of their late ages at birth of the last child and high mortality 
rates, African women surviving to the average at birth of the last child have an 
additional life expectancy of 27-32 years, while in Latin America where the last 
birth is earlier and mortality is lower the life expectancy is 40 more years.

PMID: 12269051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Global Futures Dig. 1984 Spring;2(1):7-15.

Population and the quality of life.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The World Population Plan of Action calls for policies that will improve 
levels of living and the quality of life of the people. This goal is made 
difficult by the combination of rapid population growth, slowly growing income, 
and inadequate technology leading to overexploitation of land resources for food 
and fuel. At present growth rates, it will take 70-90 years for the poorest 
countries to double their per capita income, while at the same time their 
populations will double in under 35 years. Thus, immediate and short-term 
measures are needed to improve the quality of life independent of a rise in per 
capita income. The demographic variables associated with a better quality of 
life are longer life expectancy, lower mortality rates for all age groups, lower 
morbidity rates, and lower fertility rates. Even when demographic targets are 
set, they are often not met because demographic policies and programs are not 
integrated with general development programs. The integration of population with 
development will be a central issue of the 1980s, and the success of this 
approach will determine trends in population and the quality of life. Africa and 
South Asia, which together will account for 47% of the total population of the 
Third World by the year 2000, have the lowest life expectancies, highest 
mortality rates, and some of the highest birth rates. Any increases in life 
expectancy or improvements in the general health of the population cannot be 
sustained for long without an improvement in living standards. Needed are not 
only population policies, but also programs to improve nutritional intake, 
provide new and renewable sources of energy, and improve living conditions.

PMID: 12269094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. China Popul Newsl. 1987 Aug;4(4):1-2.

A better future is ahead of us.

Ziyang Z.

PIP: China's family planning program is implemented under the unified leadership 
of the Chinese government. The main responsibilities under this program are to 
set up and strengthen family planning offices at all levels, formulate relevent 
laws and regulations, work out programs, principles, and policies for population 
growth, carry out intensive publicity and education, speed up scientific and 
technological research on family planning, and mobilize all the people and 
related departments to support the work of family planning. Family planning in 
China is practised on a voluntary basis. Education on patriotism is conducted 
among the people to enable them to see that strict control of population growth 
and conscious practice of family planning according to policy have a crucial 
bearing on China's prosperity and well being. As shown in practice, China has 
not only succeeded in maintaining sustained and steady economic growth, but has 
also succeeded in drastically reducing the population birth rate, death rate, 
infant mortality rate, and in extending average life expectancy. This 
demonstrates the superiority of China's socialist system. To control the growth 
of the population is an extremely arduous task. However, as long as China keeps 
to a practical and effective policy, the goal of keeping the total population at 
around 1.2 billion by the end of the century can be attained.

PMID: 12269155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2002 Sep 13;51(36):805-8.

State-specific prevalence of obesity among adults with disabilities--eight 
states and the District of Columbia, 1998-1999.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

The national health objectives for 2010 rank obesity among the top ten leading 
health indicators. Obesity increases the risk for type 2 diabetes, hypertension, 
dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, respiratory problems, certain cancers, 
gallstones, osteoarthritis, and lowered life expectancy. The estimated annual 
cost attributable to obesity-related diseases is approximately $100 billion. 
Obesity among adults in the general U. S. population increased from 12.0% in 
1991 to 17.9% in 1998. Little is known about the national or state prevalence of 
obesity among persons with disabilities. Obesity is not measured routinely or 
reported among persons with disabilities. To determine the prevalence of obesity 
among persons with and without disabilities, CDC analyzed data from the 1998 and 
1999 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) for eight states and the 
District of Columbia (DC). The findings indicate that obesity rates are 
significantly higher among persons with disabilities, especially among blacks 
and persons aged 45-64 years. The findings suggest that public health messages 
and interventions should be targeted to persons with disabilities who are likely 
to become obese and to obese persons who are likely to become disabled.

PMID: 12269468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2002 Oct;17(10):1786-9. doi:
10.1093/ndt/17.10.1786.

Cancer screening and life expectancy of Canadian patients with kidney failure.

Kajbaf S(1), Nichol G, Zimmerman D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Loeb Research Institute, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have at least the same 
prevalence of breast and cervical cancer but a reduced life expectancy compared 
with the general population. Whereas cancer screening has been found to be 
effective in the general population, competing risks in ESRD patients may 
obviate any screening benefit in this population. The purpose of this study was 
to determine if patients with ESRD benefit, in terms of life expectancy, by 
screening for breast and cervical cancer.
METHODS: The ESRD mortality data from the Canadian Organ Replacement Registry 
was combined with North American statistics for breast and cervical cancer 
mortality, incidence, and screening efficacy for 40-, 60-, and 70-year-old 
women. A validated method of calculating life expectancy, the declining 
exponential approximation of life expectancy (DEALE), was used to estimate the 
average life expectancy with and without screening. The benefit of screening is 
then the estimated difference in the life expectancy with and without 
mammography or PAP smears.
RESULTS: Without screening, the maximum reduction in life expectancy would be 12 
days for 60-year-old women with breast cancer. The maximum calculated benefit 
from screening was an increase in life expectancy of only 3 days with PAP smears 
for 60-year-old women.
CONCLUSIONS: Breast and cervical cancer screening, in women with ESRD, is not 
associated with as large a gain in life expectancy as for women of the general 
population. This conclusion does not necessarily apply to the individual woman 
with multiple risk factors for breast or cervical cancer and few comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/17.10.1786
PMID: 12270985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Equilibrium. 1974 Apr;2(2):4-5.

The 1974 U.N. bandwagon: will it roll? (World Population Year).

Green CP.

PIP: The World Population Conference will be attended by representatives from 
124 U.N. member nations as well as observers from nongovernmental agencies and 
will be held in Bucharest, Romania, on August 19-30, 1974. The Conference agenda 
includes 5 substantive items: 1) recent population trends and future prospects; 
2) relations between population change and economic and social development; 3) 
relations between population, resources, and environment; 4) population, family, 
and human well-being; and 5) the World Population Plan of Action. The proposed 
Plan of Action recognizes the importance of international cooperation while 
taking into account the diversity of conditions in different countries and the 
sovereignty of nations in determining their own population policy. The Plan 
calls for a life expectancy of at least 50 years for all countries by the year 
1985 and an average crude birth rate of around 30 births per 1000 people in the 
developing countries by 1985. The growth rate in developing countries is to 
decrease from 2.4% to 2% by 1985. In conjunction with the Conference, a 
Population Tribune is being organized for individuals and organizations 
interested in population issues. The Conference itself is expected to cost about 
$3 million. There are many activities being carried out throughout the world to 
commemorate World Population Year. There have been delays in the U.S., and the 
members of the U.S. commission for the Year are yet to be named. Similarly, the 
official U.S. delegation to Bucharest has not yet been chosen. Bucharest will 
provide a common ground for sharing ideas and experiences, for setting 
priorities, and for formulating new initiatives. The effective implementation of 
the proposed World Plan of Action will take all the enthusiasm, dedication, 
determination, and craftiness that the population movement can muster.

PMID: 12276746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Int Dev Rev. 1976 Mar;18(1):23-5.

Socioeconomic factors in family planning.

Eger G.

PIP: In a developing country with an average life expectancy of 50 years or 
higher (an age already reached by several less developed nations) unl imited 
procreation is no longer necessary to insure the survival of 1 or 2 sons. Data 
from Pakistan computed from the Population Growth Estimation Experiment of 
1962-1965 shows that the male mortality ratio for infants under 1 year was 
232/1000 but for 1-4 years it was 25/1000 and for 5-14 years, 3/1000. Further 
study showed that women had an average of about 5 living children and some of 
these children already had children of their own as a result of early marriage. 
If a 27-year-old father has a 2-year-old son there is a 77.2% chance the child 
will survive him. If replacement is permitted in case of death, a campaign of 
"at least 2 sons" would result in Pakistan of an average family size of 3.6 
children, far fewer than is now the case. This strategy should be more 
acceptable to parents than the present recommendation to restrict the number of 
children to 2 or 3. There also needs to be economic incentives for small 
families. Under present conditions the cost per child is small to the average 
rural family and the reward in prestige is great. The People's Republic of China 
has used negative incentives effectively. Positive incentives should be just as 
effective but they must be high enough to offset the current rewards of 
childbearing. There is also need to find out why so many couples do not practice 
family planning even though they approve of it and how administrative structure 
influences the success of a program. It has already been shown in Pakistan that 
repeat visits bring in far more acceptors than just 1 visit and repeated 
personal contacts should be maintained with the target population.

PMID: 12277291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Cent Call. 1976 Oct;11(10):8-11.

Family planning not against any religion.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The 3-day siminar "Hum Do, Hamare Do," sponsored by Amrita Bazar Patrika 
and Jugantar, was addressed by President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed and other 
top-ranking national and state leaders. The purpose of the seminar was to spread 
the message of family planning and counteract propaganda against it. The 
President congratulated the Indian press for sponsoring the seminar and 
proclaimed the duty of the mass media to involve the people in the struggle 
against poverty. He noted that although agricultural production has doubled and 
life expectancy has increased 50%, the rising population has negated any 
national progress. The common people must be convinced that family planning is 
vital to eradicate poverty and unemployment. It is false propaganda that family 
planning is not permitted by Islam and that Muslims have not adapted family 
planning. Nowhere in the Koran, the Hadis, or Jima is there prohibition of 
family planning. The family planning program, as part of an integrated health 
service, must be accepted by the people through the creation of an atmosphere 
where the norm of small families is acceptable to a very large section of the 
population.

PMID: 12277577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1979;8(3):25-7.

Philippines: new programme directions.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Achievement goals in the Philippine population program include the 
following: 1) a 1979 target of 1.8 million protected couples; 2) an increased 
proportion of users of more effective methods; 3) continued implementation of 
program activities by participating agencies and improved involvement of local 
governments; 4) a more relevant and effective information, education, and 
communication campaign; 5) an increasing pool of better trained personnel; and 
6) more effective flow of supplies and materials. Specifically, the 1978-1982 
and the 1978-1987 objectives of the population subsector are 3-fold: 1) to 
increase the average life expectancy of Filipinos (62.4 in 1982 and 64.4 in 
1987; 2) to reduce the annual rate of population growth 2.3% by 1982 and 2.1% by 
1987; and to reduce the rate of mortality (infant and pre-school) and morbidity. 
The national family planning outreach program has accomplished the fielding of a 
large number of well-selected and comprehensively trained full-time outreach 
workers, but these workers appear hard-pressed to meet the demands of their job.

PMID: 12278299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1979;8(3):8-12.

Summary of regional response to the fourth inquiry.

United Nations. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific ESCAP. 
Population and Social Affairs Division.

PIP: Most of the governments that have responded to the 4th United Nations 
Population Growth Inquiry consider that the current rates of population growth 
are constraining the achievement of objectives of social economic development, 
and thus are unsatisfactory. The view of the governments of Iran, Pakistan, the 
Republic of Korea and Sri Lanka is that their current rates of growth constrain 
all aspects of development. The governments of Japan, Malaysia, and Singapore 
regard their current rates of growth as satisfactory and contributing to 
different aspects of economic and social development. As for mortality, most 
governments in the ESCAP region consider the current level of average life 
expectancy at birth acceptable, but present levels are unacceptable to the 
governments of Bangladesh, India, Iran, Nepal, Samoa and Thailand. Most 
governments consider their current levels of fertility to be too high and that 
they constrain the family well being, but the governments of Japan and Singapore 
believe that their fertility has contributed to the family well being. 
Additional attention in the inquiry was directed to obtaining information on the 
promotion of knowledge and policies (data collection and analysis; research; 
management, training, education and information; and development and evaluation 
of population policies). 10 governments have established a high level unit to 
deal with population policies, and 10 governments have indicated that they have 
integrated population measures and programs into comprehensive social and 
economic plans and programs.

PMID: 12278305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Ctry Demogr Profiles. 1981 Jan:1-43.

Brazil.

Rowe PM.

PIP: Included in this profile of the population of Brazil are tables of selected 
demographic information, including size of population and estimates of fertility 
and mortality. Specifically, annual estimates of total population are shown 
beginning in the year 1950. An adjusted population distribution, by age and sex, 
is provided for the census years 1950 and 1970 and for 1979. Projections of the 
number of women of childbearing age are shown for each year from 1975 to 1985. 
Fertility measures shown in the profile include crude birth rates, age-specific 
fertility rates, and gross and net reproductive rates. Mortality is shown in 
terms of crude death rates, life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rates, 
and other life table functions by age and sex. Summary information is also 
included on family planning, urban population, marital status, and migration. 
Other related items are included such as number and size of household, 
educational attainment, and school enrollment. For the 1976-1977 year, the 
age-specific fertility rate per 1000 women was the following: 15-19 year age 
group, 57; 20-24 year age group, 192; 25-29 year age group, 217; 30-34 year age 
group, 183; 35-39 year age group, 128; 40-44 year age group, 60; and 45-49 year 
age group, 14.

PMID: 12278570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Rev Cuhana Adm Salud. 1980 Jan-Mar;6(1):1-30.

[Economic and social determinants of mortality in Latin America].

[Article in Spanish]

Behm H.

PIP: It is estimated that more than half of the infants born in Latin America 
are exposed to a mortality rate higher than 120/1000. Social indicators, such as 
number of hospital beds, protein consumption, literacy level, and type of 
housing are highly related to life expectancy at birth. More important yet is 
the relation of mortality with the socioeconomic characteristics of a given 
country within Latin America. Geographical differences of mortality are the 
result of national policies especially in regard to urban and rural population. 
For example, probability of death in Ecuador is 98/1000 in urban areas, and 
145/1000 in rural areas; data are similar for other countries. The socioeconomic 
contradictions of the capitalist system create differences in mortality rates by 
concentrating in the few cities most of the health services, and by providing 
better living conditions for the urban population. Mortality, especially infant, 
is inversely related to income and to educational status and age of the mother. 
The many indigenous ethnic groups still existing in many Latin American 
countries have even higher mortality rates than the rest of the population. 
Respiratory dysfunctions, infectious diseases, malnutrition and accidents are 
the main causes of infant mortality in all groups of people, but with much 
higher rates for the working classes, and lower rates for the higher income 
classes. As a final analysis, not only is it important to use modern medical 
knowledge and technology to lower mortaltiy rates, but, and above all, it is 
imperative to modify social and economic structures.

PMID: 12278622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Environ Plan A. 1978;10(6):705-26. doi: 10.1068/a100705.

Increment-decrement life tables: some further comments from a 
demographic-accounting point of view.

Rees PH.

DOI: 10.1068/a100705
PMID: 12278680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Environ Plan A. 1980;12(5):485-622.

Essays in multistate mathematical demography: special IIASA issue.

Rogers A.

PMID: 12278876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Bol Demogr. 1977 Oct-Dec;8(2):32-56.

[National census survival rates in population projections for subnational 
areas].

[Article in Portuguese]

Irwin R.

PIP: National census survey rates are often used to obtain historical estimates 
of migration related to age. Such estimates are used in population projections 
by cohorts, assuming that past trends will continue in the future. Life table 
survival rates are used in such projections to represent mortality. This long 
and highly specialized study demonstrates that if migration estimates obtained 
with national census survival rates are utilized in population projections done 
with life table survival rates, a substantial and very obvious misrepresentation 
will derive in calculating the age distribution of the projected population. 
Such misrepresentation can be avoided by using, instead of the life table 
survival rates, the national census survival rates adjusted according to future 
changes in expected mortality. The study demonstrates this theory by using 
adjusted national census survival rates for population projections for the years 
1970-80.

PMID: 12278899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Estad Venez. 1978;(11):19-27.

[Life tables for Venezuela for the years 1974 and 1975].

[Article in Spanish]

Paez Celis J, Escalona LA.

PMID: 12278961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Demografie. 1978;20(3):271-5.

[Life tables, 1975].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 12278990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Studia Demogr. 1977;(48):51-60.

[Methods of estimating a level of mortality in case of lack of data on deaths by 
sex and age].

[Article in Polish]

Zasepa R.

PMID: 12279000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1981 Nov;8(2):5-7.

Robust estimation of fertility by the use of model stable populations.

Coale AJ.

PIP: A method of estimating the average birth rate during a period of 15 years 
prior to a census or survey is described. The 1st step is to choose an 
appropriate rate of survival to age 5 and then to identify, from any of the 4 
regional model life tables, a population having the same proportion under age 15 
as the given population. A correction factor, based on the growth rate, is then 
applied. The resulting estimate very closely approximates the actual birth rate 
in the 15 years before the census or survey in several test populations. This 
procedure can be used even in populations which are not stable. It is not 
dependent on the family of model life tables chosen. Methods for estimating the 
gross reproduction rate and the total fertility rate, for stable populations 
only, from these data are also described.

PMID: 12279164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1980;(155):81-7.

[Occupational differences in life expectancy for males: analysis by cause of 
death].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PMID: 12279252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1980;(155):95-102.

[The thirty-second abridged life tables: 1978-1979].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Life tables are presented by five-year age group and for single years by 
sex for Japan for 1978-1979.

PMID: 12279253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1978;(1):42-9.

[Comparative study on the life tables in Japan and England and Wales].

[Article in Japanese]

Iibuchi Y.

PMID: 12279262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Anthropol Kozl. 1979;23(1-2):11-44.

[The demographic profile of the Late Iron Age/early Roman-age population of 
Cannington, Great Britain].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nemeskeri J.

The author reports on a 1962-1963, excavation of a Late Iron Age and early 
Roman-age cemetery in Cannington, England. The population was reconstructed 
using Drenhaus's method and data on 510 individuals. "Probability of dying by 
years of age, survival and life expectancy at birth were estimated." (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12279281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Options Policy Pract. 1980;6(3 and 4):1-14.

Nutrition and health in the year 2000.

University of the Philippines. School of Economics.

PIP: Despite an increase in life expectancy from 12.7 years in 1902 to 60.6 in 
1973, many problems in nutrition and health still beset the Philippines. The 
prevalence of protein and energy malnutrition, which may have irreversible 
effects on children, has possibly risen over the past 15 years, and specific 
deficiencies of iron, vitamin A, and iodine are also serious problems. General 
undernutrition has apparently worsened despite steady improvement in per capita 
GNP, available supply of protein and energy, and education. The Philippine 
morbidity pattern can be characterized by a high prevalence of communicable 
diseases and the emergence of noncommunicable diseases such as malignant 
neoplasms and diseases of the heart and circulatory system. A 1975 survey 
indicated that there were about 275 cases of felt illness each month for every 
1000 persons. Projections of health status in the year 2000 indicate improvement 
but the results should be viewed with caution because their basic assumptions 
may be too optimistic. Policy recommendations to promote health improvement call 
for attention to education, fertility reduction, acceleration of economic 
growth, improvement in food supply, better living conditions, and achievement of 
income equity.

PMID: 12279311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1982 Aug;9(1):5-10.

Plotting paper for Brass life table analysis.

Stoto MA, Gomez De Leon J, Ewbank DC.

PIP: Expands on the relational approach proposed by Brass for developing 
mortality models. Brass has developed 2 tables, one for general applicability, 
and another specifically for African data. The linearity of the relationship 
(the standards differ only under age 10) lends more flexibility to its usage as 
compared to model life tables. Also, it allows a visual test to be made of the 
adequacy of the model for a particular life table. A method is presented which 
greatly simplifies this process, and which can be accomplished using regular 
graph paper and a calculator. The resulting Brass graph simplifies the 
evaluation of whether a particular life table resembles a Brass standard and 
allows direct visual estimates of the parameters.

PMID: 12279358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1982;11(4):22-4.

Asian and Pacific population targets.

United Nations. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific ESCAP. 
Population Division. General Demography Section.

PIP: 2 population targets for the Asian and Pacific regions were established in 
1981-82: 1) by the Asian Conference of Parliamentarians on Population and 
Development at Beijing, China to attain 1% population growth rate for the Asian 
region by the year 2000, and 2) by the 3rd Asian and Pacific Population 
Conference at Colombo, Sri Lanka, to attain replacement level of fertility by 
the year 2000. In an attempt to ascertain whether these targets can be achieved 
and/or related, the Population Division of the UN's Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) prepared population projections in 
which the 2 targets are achieved. These projections were prepared by aggregating 
the total population of member countries. When net reproduction rate (NRR) 
equals 1 (replacement level fertility) it will lead to a stable population with 
a growth rate of zero. In the short-term a population with replacement level 
fertility will continue to increase if it has a young age structure due to 
previous higher levels of fertility. Some projections for the period 1980-2005 
are: 1) population growth rate will decrease from 1.78% to 1.05%, 2) total 
fertility rate will decrease from 3.63-2.11, 3) male life expectancy will 
increase from 59.8-67.3, and 4) infant mortality rate will decrease from 
67.3-34.5. For the ESCAP region, a target of NRR of 1 would be easier to achieve 
than a growth rate of 1%. The UN projects the total population of the region to 
be 3,382,000,000 in the year 2000. If the NRR can be lowered to 1 by then, 
however, the total population would be 3,342,000,000 and if the growth rate can 
be reduced to 1% by the end of the century the resulting population would be 
3,300,000,000. Major demographic benefits will be attained in terms of the age 
structure of the population if a 1% growth rate is achieved; the proportion 
under age 15 was 37.1% in 1980 but will be 27.2% in 2000 with a dependency ratio 
of 48.8 compared to 70.8 for 1980.

PMID: 12279375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1982;11(4):30-1.

India well prepared for meeting future goals.

Nair SS.

PIP: In India many of the past goals for reduction in birth rates have not been 
achieved for various reasons, and although contraceptive usage has increased it 
has not been sufficient to overtake the reduction in death rates. From 1971-80 
about 1/2 of the population of the country was subject to a decline in growth 
rate, and the number of eligible couples using effective contraception was 10.6% 
in 1971 and 22.7% in 1981 in spite of an increase in the number of such couples. 
The death rate declined from 27.4 in 1941-51 to 14.8 in 1971-81 with a 
corresponding increase in life expectancy from 32-52 years. However the growth 
rate has reached a plateau during 1971-81. Since its inception the Family 
Welfare Program in India is estimated to have averted 49 million births 
including 5 million in 1981-82. Future goals are: 1) reduction in birth rate 
from 35 in 1981 to 21, death rate from 14 to 9 and infant mortality rate from 
125 to 60 by the year 2000 along with reductions in maternal mortality and 
morbidity, and 2) an increase in the percentage of couples protected from 23.6 
in 1982 to 60 in 2000, and 3) population size of 950 million by the year 2000 
and the commencement of population stabilization leading to a population of 
about 1200 million by the middle of the 21st century. Future strategies for the 
promotion of planned parenthood include information, education, and 
communication programs, incentives and disincentives, involvement of 
nongovernmental agenices, provision of services and supplies, linkages with 
other sectors, and monitoring and evaluation activities. Emphasis will be put on 
interpersonal communication channels to promote the program as a mass movement.

PMID: 12279376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Maandstat Bevolking Volksgezond. 1980;28(11):48-66.

[Life tables for the Netherlands and provinces derived from observations over 
the period 1971-1975].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

"The tables presented show, for each province [of the Netherlands] and by sex, 
the life expectation for 5-year age groups from the age of five onwards so that, 
on the assumption that mortality will remain constant, with their aid the 
population can be forecast by 5-year age groups for any subsequent 5-year 
period."

excerpt

PMID: 12279421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1981 May;(4):17-22, 39.

[Constructing an intercensal mortality-net migration increment-decrement table].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi K.

"This paper aims at constructing a certain type of double increment-decrement 
[life] table which will be suited to analyze intercensal mortality and migration 
experiences [in Japan]. Use was made of the two successive population censuses 
at a five-year interval from 1970 to 1975 for Kyoto city." (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12279457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Renkou Yanjiu. 1981;(3):38-40.

[Preliminary analysis of the 1979 complete life tables of the city of Shanghai].

[Article in Chinese]

Shanghai Public Health Epidemic Prevention Station.

PIP: An analysis of the complete 1979 life tables for Shanghai, China, is 
presented. It is concluded that the average life expectancy for those born in 
1979 is 73.87 years (71.98 for men and 75.62 for women), as compared with 42 
years for men and 45-56 years for women in 1951. This increase is attributed to 
higher standards of living achieved under Communist leadership.

PMID: 12279475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Renkou Yanjiu. 1981;(3):55-61.

[Life tables].

[Article in Chinese]

Zha RC.

PIP: This is a discussion on the contents, organization, and use of life tables. 
The author uses a 1975 Chinese female life table as the basis for this 
discussion.

PMID: 12279476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Statistica. 1982 Oct-Dec;42(4):479-512.

[Effect of variations in morbidity on mortality and on population size and 
structure].

[Article in Italian]

Golini A, Egidi V.

PIP: The effects of changes in morbidity on the level and structure of mortality 
are explored, and the implications of these changes for population size and 
structure are considered. The process of illness and death is simulated through 
the development of deterministic models using life table techniques. Two 
alternative models are proposed, one in which it is assumed that the population 
is exposed to one single risk, and the other involving competing risks. (summary 
in ENG, FRE)

PMID: 12279555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Notas Poblacion. 1983 Apr;11(31):11-31.

[Abbreviated life tables prepared at CELADE, San Jose, to be used in population 
projections].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega A.

PIP: Some problems related to the use of abbreviated life tables to project 
mortality by age in Latin America are discussed. The life tables previously 
used, which were developed by Jean Bourgeois-Pichat in 1952, are shown to 
produce exaggerated male excess mortality in the first years of life. The new 
series of abbreviated life tables developed at CELADE in San Jose, Costa Rica, 
to overcome this problem is described. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12279769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Popul Today. 1984 Jul-Aug;12(7-8):12.

Libya: spotlight.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Libya's population at 3.7 million is small but growing so rapidly that it 
should double by 2000. At this time 90% of the population live in less than 25% 
of the land area, and 40% live in 1 of the 2 major cities, Tripoli and Benghazi. 
Since oil was discovered in the 1950s, Libya's economy has been almost totally 
dependent upon petroleum exports. Prices have dropped sharply since 1980 because 
of the world oil glut, but oil still provides a rich income. The government has 
used the substantial oil revenues for ambitious construction projects, expansion 
of educational and health facilities, and creation of a modern defense 
establishment to foster economic development and political strength. Libya has 
enjoyed remarkable improvements in living standards and school enrollment over 
the past 30 years. Literacy increased from 23% for men and 2% for women to 73% 
for men and 40% for women since the 1950s. Prior to 1950, Libya's population 
grew at less than 2% annually, but since then declining mortality, high 
birthrates, and increasing immigration have caused growth rates to soar above 
4%. Consistent with Arab tradition, Libyans favor large families. Women marry at 
around age 17 and bear an average of 7 children. The Moslem culture disapproves 
of women working outside the home, and only about 5% do so. The government 
encourages the high birthrates to increase the small native population. 
Importation of modern contraceptive is illegal, and family planning does not 
receive government support although maternal and child health projects do. The 
increases in education and labor force participation of women may lead to lower 
fertility in the future. The average Libyan's life expectancy was 43 during the 
1950s and about 190 of every 1000 babies died before their 1st birthday. In the 
1980s life expectancy is up to about 65, and infant mortality down to 90/1000 
births. The mortality decline can be directly attributed to vaccination 
campaigns carried out during the late 1950s and the expansion of health care 
financed by petroleum exports. The decline in mortality coupled with the 
continuation of high birthrates have produced an annual rate of natural increase 
of 3.3%, but the most marked changes in the population are from international 
migration. Since 1965, hundreds of thousands of foreign laborers have been 
attracted to Libya by the promise of high wages and generous social services. 
Libya faces several problems in the near future. 47% of the population are under 
age 15, and the communities of aliens, viewed suspiciously by the native 
Libyans, appear to be permanent additions to the society.

PMID: 12279826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Popul Policy Compend. 1983 Dec:1-7.

Botswana.

United Nations. Department of Economic and Social Affairs. Population Division; 
United Nations. Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Botswana's population size was 908,000 in 1980 (3.8% population growth 
rate) and is expected to double by the year 2000. Although the government is 
concerned about the high rate of population growth, there is no explicit policy 
to reduce fertility or regulate migration. The country's development planning 
objectives are rapid economic growth, social justice, economic independence, and 
sustained development. The interaction between population and development is 
clearly recognized, and the increasing proportion of the dependent age group 
population is regared as a barrier to economic opportunities for all. Life 
expectancy currently stands at 52.5 years for both sexes. The mortality rate is 
expected to reach 12.7 deaths/1000 population in 1980-85 and the infant 
mortality rate is currectly 96/1000 live births. The mortality situation in 
Botswana is regarded as unacceptable by the government. There is particular 
concern with the mortality levels of infants, children, mothers, and low income 
groups. Many health problems are related to poor nutrition, inadequate water 
supplies, lack of proper sanitation, poor housing, and a lack of Botswana's 
health policy has been to improve and expand basic health services, especially 
in rural and peri-urban areas, with an emphasis on maternal and child health 
services and health education. By the year 2000, the government aims to reduce 
infant mortality to 50/1000 and increase life expectancy at birth to above 60 
years. Family planning is integrated into the maternal and child health program. 
The fertility rate currently stands at 6.5%. Existing programs emphasize the 
family welfare and well being aspects of fertility regulation and suggest child 
spacing as a means of reducing family size. The government aims to increase the 
proportion of family planning acceptors from its 1981 level of 10% to 15% by 
1985 and to have 85% of pregnant women visit prenatal clinics. Recent trends in 
migration and emigration are considered satisfactory, although there is a 
concern with redcing dependence on labor migration to South Africa. Finally, the 
government seeks to stem increasing rates of urban growth.

PMID: 12279838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Genus. 1984 Jan-Jun;40(1-2):47-56.

On the characteristics of the parameters of a life table function.

Mitra S.

This study is based on a mathematical model for the life table survivorship 
function developed by the author, "the form of which has been logically arrived 
