at in a manner such that the simple but the well known constraints of the life 
table functions can be met by the model. There are basically three parameters in 
the model which can be estimated by the method of least squares after the 
variables are subjected to appropriate transformations. The characteristics of 
these parameters have been investigated in this paper which [makes] it readily 
apparent that the model can provide good approximations to a wide variety of 
life tables." (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12279908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Genus. 1984 Jan-Jun;40(1-2):57-70.

The problem of choosing model life tables for African countries.

Ekanem II, Som RK.

"This study seeks to investigate contemporary practice among mortality analysts 
whereby the South Model life table in the Coale Demeny system is used for 
analysing mortality data for countries in the North African subregion while the 
corresponding North Model is used for Sub-Saharan African countries. The two 
analytical methods proposed...are discussed and empirically tested with 
pertinent data from Algeria and Egypt (North Africa) and Liberia, Togo, Reunion 
and Mauritius (Sub-Saharan Africa)." The above practice is not completely 
validated. "It is therefore suggested that rather than use a predetermined model 
life table for analysing mortality data in African countries, the methods used 
in the study should first be applied to determine the model type that best fits 
the specific country data situation." (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12279909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Genus. 1984 Jan-Jun;40(1-2):71-106.

[Thirty years of evolution of adult mortality in Italy].

[Article in Italian]

Egidi V.

PIP: Adult mortality trends in Italy over the past 30 years are reviewed, with a 
focus on changes in the most common cause of death by sex and major age group. 
The author notes that for males aged 45-74, the increase in mortality from 
malignant tumors has been offset by decreases in mortality from other causes, 
particularly circulatory diseases. The prospects for further improvements in 
life expectancies for women and for males under age 45 are more favorable. 
(summary in ENG, FRE)

PMID: 12279910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Dev Commun Rep. 1984 Autumn;(47):3.

Wonsuom--a rural communication project in Ghana.

Boafo ST.

PIP: The urban bias of the communication infrastructure in most parts of 
sub-Saharan Africa has comprised a major obstacle to the participation of the 
rural population in development decsion making. This article describes the 
Wonsuom rural communication pilot project in Ghana, aimed at providing 
communication technologies at the grassroots level to enhance the contribution 
of communication in rural development. When fully operational, the project will 
use a combination of a rural newspaper published in the local Fante language, 
rural radio broadcasts, radio listening clubs, and slide projectors to carry 
development-oriented information to rural communities and mobilize people for 
development programs. The project, which is carried out by the School of 
Journalism and Communication of the University of Ghana, covers 22 rural 
communities with a population of 150,000. The radio programs, started in 1983, 
include local and national news; discussions involving local community leaders, 
farmers, fishermen, and extension agents on problems facing the community and on 
issues such as primary health care and family planning; and features on the 
achievements of individual community members and development activities. Radio 
listening clubs meet on a regular basis to listen to the broadcasts, discuss 
issues highlighted, and deliberate on ways to generate development projects in 
their community. The discussions are recorded for subsequent broadcast on the 
program, creating a 2-way communication process. The listening clubs also serve 
as the focus of social and cultural life in the communities. Publication of the 
newspaper has been delayed by problems stemming from Ghana's socioeconomic 
crisis, but newspaper reading clubs are also projected.

PMID: 12279924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. R S Rep. 1981 Sep;(35):1-9.

Sex differences in tuberculosis and general mortality by ethnic group in Hawaii.

Goldman N.

PMID: 12280041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. R S Rep. 1982 Jun;(40):1-16.

Death in paradise: Big Island mortality 1910-1950.

Fleischman RK.

PMID: 12280042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Bull Gandhigram Inst Rural Health Fam Welf Trust. 1980 Dec;15(4):49-60.

Demographic profile and policies in family planning programme in the ESCAP 
region.

Sadashivaiah K, Simha J, Ramesh AS.

PMID: 12280064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1983;12(2):28-9.

Solomon Islands: multi-faceted approach to family planning.

United Nations. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific ESCAP. 
Population Division.

PMID: 12280076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1985 Jan;(173):64-72.

[Occupational differences in life expectancy for males: 1980].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Differences in male life expectancy by occupation in Japan in 1980 are 
examined in a series of life tables. Consideration is also given to changes 
since 1970.

PMID: 12280162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Int Demogr. 1985 Aug;4(8):1-6.

Republic of Botswana. Country profile.

Tarver J.

PIP: A summary of Botswana's population characteristics, population 
distribution, labor force characteristics, health situation, and transportation 
and communication facilities is provided. 87% of the country's 941,027 
inhabitants live in the catchment area of the Limpopo River in the eastern 
region of the country. Much of the remaining area is covered by the Kalahari 
Desert. The population is growing at an annual rate of 3.6%, the birth rate is 
50 and the total fertility rate is 6.6. The government has no official 
population policy. Major ethnic groups are the cattle raising Tswanas, which 
make up 50% of the population, the Herero, and the Basarwa, or Bushmen, of the 
Kalahri Desert. Urban areas are officially defined as population centers which 
contain 5000 or more residents and in which at least 75% of the inhabitants are 
engaged in nonagricultural work. According to this classification, 84% of the 
population is rural; however, most rural inhabitants live in agrotowns and 
temporarily move to outlying cattle and land posts during part of the year. Some 
of the agrotowns have almost 25,000 inhabitants. Major urban centers include 1) 
Gaborone, the capital and major administrative center, with a popualtion of 
59,657; 2) Francistown, a large commercial center, with a population of 31,065; 
3) Selebi-Phikwe, a mining center, populated by 29,469; and 4) Lobatse, a 
livestock marketing and processing center, with 19,034 residents. The urban 
population increased from 54,416 to 150,021 between 1971-81. The population has 
a young age structure. A large number of working aged males migrate temporarily 
to the Republic of South Africa to work in the gold mines. 37% of the 
economically active population is engaged in government services, 26% in mining, 
manufacturing, and construction, 21% in trade and finance, 6% in transportation, 
utilities, and communication, and 4.5% in agriculture. Only 1.3% of the land is 
cultivatable. The working age population is expected to double by the end of the 
20th century. Per capita income is US$392 (1982). English is the official 
language, but Setswana is the national language. 35% of the population, 10 years 
of age or older, is literate. Education is not compulsory, and 40% of those 5 
years of age or older have no schooling. Recently, school enrollments increased, 
and 1/2 of those aged 5-19 years are currently enrolled in school. There are 
170,000 housing units. In urban areas, most housing units have piped water, 1/3 
have flush toilets, and 27% have either electircity or gas for lighting and 
cooking. In 1983, there were 15 hospitals, 7 health centers, 127 clinics, 684 
health posts or mobile units, 146 doctors, 9 dentists, and 1440 nurses. The 
infant mortality rate declined from 102-79 between 1971-84, and life expectancy 
increased from 53-56 between 1971-81. The government places a high priority on 
improving the health status of the population, and hospital facilities are being 
expanded. Botswana has 13,500 kilometers of roads, of which 23% are paved. There 
is 1 daily newspaper with a circulation of 25,000 and a weekly newspaper with a 
circulation of 14,000. In 1983, the country imported 38,000 radios and 
televisions. There are 6,800 telephone subscribers in the country. Government 
sources of statistical information on Botswana are listed and an age and sex 
distribution pyramid is provided.

PMID: 12280196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Popul Today. 1985 Jul-Aug;13(7-8):15.

Pakistan. Spotlight.

Greene M.

PIP: Focus in this discussion of Pakistan is on demographic factors, the issue 
of ethnic versus national solidarity, and economic and social development. The 
population was estimated at 99.2 million in 1985. The birthrate was 43/1000 in 
1984 and the deaths were 15/1000. The infant mortality rate is 105 infant 
deaths/1000 live births, and life expectancy at birth is 51 years. In 1983 the 
gross national product per capita was US$390. The population of Pakistan is 
concentrated around Karachi on the Arabian Sea and in the crescent formed by 
Lahore, Rawalpindi, and Peshawar. Pakistan was a British colony, part of the 
Indian subcontinent until partition in 1947, when Britain gave Pakistan and 
India their freedom. Pakistan is not a theocracy, but the military government 
turns to traditional Islam for affirmation of its authority. Its martial law 
regime, established in 1977, is headed by President Ziaul Haq. The issue of 
ethnic versus national solidarity has been a problem since independence. 
Bengali-speaking East Pakistanis felt they did not have equal power in their 
country whose official language was Urdu and whose capital was in West Pakistan. 
East and West Pakistan ended up in armed conflict with the formation of 
Bangladesh in 1971 as the result. Regional and ethnic conflict is exacerbated by 
the low rate of literacy and the low status of certain ethnic groups in 
Pakistan. In addition, Pakistan suffers problems typical of many developing 
nations: a low per capita income, a large and growing population, and a highly 
stratified traditional society. In 1981 doctors, engineers, and craftsmen were 
in short supply, but there was a surplus of 300,000 agricultural workers. 
Agriculture makes up 30% of the GNP and employs 55% of the work force. In 
Pakistan's 6th Five Year Plan, initiated in July 1983, the government 
acknowledged for the 1st time the extremely poor conditions for women as 
indicated by literacy, health, and fertility. The total fertility rate is 6.4 
average births/woman. Although the government is ostensibly trying to help 
women, funding for women's programs during the Five Year Plan was cut. Economic 
growth has been good in recent years, but agricultural growth is a result of 
increased acreage rather than yield per acre.

PMID: 12280214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Mater Pr Antropol. 1984;(105):147-65.

[An attempt to construct cohort life tables for people born in the nineteenth 
and first half of the twentieth century on the basis of data from parish 
registers].

[Article in Polish]

Piasecki E.

PIP: Data from birth and death registers in the parish of Bejsce, in Kielce 
voivodship, Poland, are used to calculate two different life tables, one 
including and one excluding migration. The abbreviated life tables are 
constructed for 10-year periods from 1801 to 1950 for males and females. Changes 
in life expectancy over time are analyzed. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12280279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Demogr Inf. 1985:3-20, 128.

[Marriages, divorces, and number of children: life tables on the family life 
cycle in Austria].

[Article in German]

Lutz W.

A multistate life table approach to the analysis of the family life cycle is 
outlined. "After calculating one-dimensional nuptiality and divorce tables and 
presenting a recently developed model of a fertility table based on parity, a 
multi-state model is described in which the cells represent all possible 
combinations of marital status and parity." The model is applied to data from 
the 1976 and 1981 micro-censuses of Austria. Findings regarding marriage, 
divorce, fertility, and fertility differentials by education are discussed. 
(summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12280305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Demogr Inf. 1985:81-90.

[Current data on population and employment: current trends in demographic 
development in the year 1984].

[Article in German]

Findl P.

PIP: Information is presented on population and employment trends in Austria in 
1984. Some comparative data for earlier years are also provided. Topics covered 
include changes in population size, the decline in fertility, mortality and life 
expectancy, international migration and naturalizations, marriages and divorces, 
age structure, the dependency ratio, labor force participation, and families.

PMID: 12280309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Am Stat. 1986 Feb;40(1):32-9.

An uncertainty principle in demography and the unisex issue.

Cohen JE.

"The purpose of this article is to show that if many characteristics affect the 
mortality of individuals, there are intrinsic limits to the ability of 
demographers to answer two elementary questions:" whether the force of mortality 
in the last year was more or less severe in one country relative to that in a 
second, and whether an individual's chance of survival would have been greater 
in one or the other of the two countries. The author notes that the conclusions 
are applicable to all demographic crude rates. "The possibility of encountering 
Simpson's paradox suggests that since sex is only one of many possible 
stratifying variables that appear to affect mortality, the use of mortality 
tables distinguished by sex and by no other variables is, in the absence of 
information about the importance of other variables, demographically arbitrary."

excerpt

PMID: 12280321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Naselenie. 1985;3(4):60-80.

[Multistate demographic marital life tables].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Filipov D.

PIP: The relevance of the multistate approach to the analysis of nuptiality is 
considered. Multistate life tables of marriage are constructed using official 
Bulgarian data for 1975. Four types of marital status are considered, namely, 
unmarried, married, divorced, and widowed. The probabilities of transition from 
one state to another and of length of duration in a given state are calculated. 
(summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12280387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Naselenie. 1985;3(4):91-107.

[Demographic development of the Blagoevgrad district in the period of the 
building of socialism in Bulgaria].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Totev A.

PIP: Population dynamics in the Blagoevgrad district of Bulgaria from 1944 to 
1983 are examined. The district shows trends similar to those of the country as 
a whole, namely, a decline in fertility, a decline in mortality with a slight 
increase in the most recent years, a decline in the rate of natural increase, an 
aging of the population, and increases in life expectancy and urbanization. 
(summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12280388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 May:1-8.

Gambia.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This compendium on the Gambia contains a summary of 1) current and 
projected demographic indicators, 2) government population policies and 
concerns, and 3) the current status of the national population data collecting 
system. The information is further summarized in a 1-page fact sheet. Gambia is 
the smallest African nation and has an average density of 50 persons/square 
kilometer. The total population in 1980 was 583,000. Between 1975-80 the annual 
population growth rate was 2.2%, and the annual rate of natural increase was 
1.8%. Preliminary results of the 1983 census indicate that the annual growth 
rate between 1973-83 was 2.5%. The middle range, projected total population for 
2000 is 898,000. The Gambia's recent population growth is attributed to a 
decline in mortality and a relatively high level of uncontrolled immigration 
from surrounding countries. The emigration rate was relatively low. Life 
expectancy at birth was 33.5 years, and in 1975-80, the infant mortality rate 
was 204. During 1975-80, the crude birth rate was 48.3, and the net reproduction 
rate was 1.7. The urban rate was 18.5% (1980), and the annual urban growth rate 
was 4.4% (1975-80). Per capita gross domestic product was US$369 (1979), and in 
1983, 76.7% of the labor force was engaged in agriculture. The Gambia's second 
5-year plan (1981-82 to 1985-86) contains the nation's first formal statement of 
population policy. The plan calls for controlling population growth by reducing 
mortality, fertility, and immigration and recognizes the relationship between 
economic development and population. The government recognizes the difficulties 
involved in providing basic services under conditions of rapid population growth 
and that rapid population is contributing to the deterioration of the 
environment. The country's primary development goals are to diversify the 
economy and increase productivity, especially in the agricultural sector. A 
reduction in mortality will be achieved by promoting preventive and primary 
health care services. A reduction in fertility will be achieved by improving 
maternal and child care and family well-being. Birth attendants will be trained 
in family planning education, and contraceptive supplies will be made available 
through rural women's clubs. Information, in family planning will be increased. 
The major provider of contraceptive services in the Gambia is the Gambian Family 
Planning Association, an affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood 
Federation. The government is concerned with the high influx of migrant workers 
from nearby countries and hopes to control this influx by establishing bilateral 
and multilateral agreements with these countries. In an effort to reduce rapid 
population growth in the urban Banjul area, the government plans to build 2 new 
cities and to create employment opportunities in rural areas. The Gambia 
conducted 3 censuses since 1963, and the latest census occurred in 1983. The 
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development is responsible for 
carrying out the governments population policies.

PMID: 12280397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Genus. 1985 Jul-Dec;41(3-4):135-40.

Estimating adult mortality from a census based method.

Kabir M, Moslehuddin M.

"In this paper a simple method is presented to derive current adult mortality 
level. The sensitivity of estimates to various forms of data error is 
considered, and procedures are proposed for removing errors resulting from 
differential census coverage completeness and from age misstatement. The 
estimated life expectancy at age 5 derived from the method seems plausible." The 
method is applied to census data for Bangladesh to estimate adult mortality for 
the period 1974-1981. (summary in FRE, ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12280404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Popul Res. 1985 Oct;2(4):24-6.

The elderly population of China.

Wang X.

PIP: China's elderly population is expanding; the elderly population is growing 
more rapidly than the total population. The elderly population rose from 42 
million in 1953 to 72 million in 1978. The urban elderly population is growing 
faster than the rural elderly population. According to UN projection, China's 
elderly population will rise to 11% by the end of the century and 20% by 2025. 
The reasons for the increase in the elderly population include 1) a better 
standard of living and health care, 2) a declining birth rate, 3) longer life 
expectancy, and 4) aging baby boom cohorts born in the last 30 years. The 
Chinese Communist Party and government attach great importance to the elderly; 
policies have instituted retirement systems, homes for the childless elderly, 
and social insurance, as well as continuing the traditional respect the Chinese 
have always given to the elderly.

PMID: 12280500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Trans Inst Br Geogr. 1986;11(4):387-414.

Does it matter where I live?

Howe GM.

"The traditional view of the overall health field is criticized and a new 
perspective embracing the environment, life style, human biology and health care 
is presented. Spatial variations and distributional patterns in the UK of 
premature death from coronary artery disease in males and females, lung-bronchus 
cancer in males, cancer of the female breast, and 'All Causes' for both sexes 
are described and analysed at national, regional, district and intra-urban 
scale. High risk and low risk areas/communities for premature death from 
selected diseases are listed as indicators of local health status."

excerpt

PMID: 12280515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Estud Geogr. 1985 Feb-May;46(178-179):189-210.

[The role of Barcelona in the Catalan demographic transition (1857-1920)].

[Article in Spanish]

Vidal I Bendito T.

PIP: The role played by the city of Barcelona in the demographic transition of 
the Catalan region of Spain is analyzed. The author notes that the city 
attracted a high proportion of the region's younger population, whose fertility 
and life expectancy was reduced in the urban environment. The change in the age 
distribution of the population caused by this process at the turn of the century 
is noted. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND FRE)

PMID: 12280522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Naselenie. 1986;4(2):22-33.

[The effects of changes in a population's mortality and age structure and their 
probability estimates].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Khristov E.

PIP: A method for the analysis of mortality is developed in which the difference 
between two dynamic total mortality rates is broken down into two main types of 
effects, one due to changes in the age-specific mortality rate and the other due 
to changes in the age structure of the population. The author provides estimates 
of the contribution at each age for the two effects as well as for the 
cumulative changes in total mortality. Probability estimates are given of the 
separate effects using life table methods developed by Chiang. The application 
of the proposed method to the analysis of any process of social change involving 
the measurement of the impact of structural changes is considered.

PMID: 12280531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Health Policy (New York). 1987 Feb;7(1):41-8.

Increase in life expectancy at birth in Japan: some implications for variable 
patterns of decrease in mortality.

Masaki M, Koizumi A.

"The characteristics of the increase in life expectancy at birth...in Japan were 
analyzed using the life tables of developed countries in which the values of 
[life expectancy at birth] were almost the same. When the decrease in 
age-specific probability of dying...and its contribution to total gain in [life 
expectancy at birth] in Japan were compared to those of other developed 
countries, the decline in [age-specific probability of dying] in prime, middle 
and old age groups accounts for much of the change; the decrease in this 
variable for males aged 50 years and over accounted for 35% of the recent 
increase in [life expectancy at birth]. Well-organized medical care and public 
services are discussed in relation to this unique and unusually rapid increase 
in [life expectancy at birth] for the Japanese population."

excerpt

PMID: 12280614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Renkou Yanjiu. 1986 May;(3):31-3, 52.

[Comparative analysis of the index of our population life quality].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma S.

PIP: A comprehensive method of calculating and measuring a country's or an 
area's health and literacy levels is examined. The method, known as population 
quality life inference (PQLI), was used to determine which of China's provinces 
has the highest and the lowest degree of population quality. The PQLI indicates 
infant mortality, average life expectancy of 1 year olds, and literacy rates of 
those 15 years and older. Because developing countries traditionally have high 
rates of infant mortality and illiteracy and low life expectancy rates during 
their industrialization, measuring the degree of population quality of life 
improvement of such countries during this period was found to be significant. 
These factors (infant mortality, illiteracy, and life expectancy) will improve 
substantially as industrialization continues. In order to compare various areas, 
these 3 factors must be changed into "inferences" 0-100, "0" representing the 
lowest population quality and "100" the highest. These 3 inferences must then be 
averaged in order to calculate the PQLI. For example: life expectancy value 77 
(highest in the world) minus 38 (lowest)/100 = .39. In order to measure the 
value of India's life expectancy: value of 1-year-old's life expectancy = 56 
(1-year-old's life expectancy in India) minus 38/.39 = 46. The value of adult 
illiteracy does not need to be changed. Thus, the actual comparison will be 
based on the values of the 3 inferences. Using this method of calculation, it is 
concluded that the PQLI analysis indicated that Peking (93.04) is the highest in 
China and Yumnan Province (60.72) is the lowest.

PMID: 12280624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Genus. 1986 Jul-Dec;42(3-4):165-80.

An age adjustment of very young children of India, 1981 and reappraisal of 
fertility and mortality rates--A model approach.

Mukhopadhyay BK.

PIP: Several approaches were made by actuaries and demographers to correct and 
smooth the Indian age distribution with special emphasis on population in age 
group 0-4 at different points of time. The present analysis conceives the life 
table stationary population (using the West Model) as 'reference standard'. 2 
parameters were estimated from a regression equation using the proportion of 
population in age groups 5-14 and 60-plus as independent variables and that in 
0-4 as the dependent variable. The corrected census proportions in age group 0-4 
obtained from the regression model under certain assumptions for the 14 major 
states and India seem to be consistent and to have slightly lower values than 
those of the 1971 adjusted data. Moreover, unadjusted and adjusted proportions 
in 5-14 and 60 plus do not show any significant difference between the predicted 
values. Using the corrected population aged 0-4 years, the average annual birth 
and death rates during the 5 year period preceeding the 1981 census have been 
estimated for those 14 states and India as well. The estimated birth rates so 
obtained were further adjusted using an appropriate factor from the West Model 
and Indian life table survival ratios. The final estimates seem to be 
consistent, except for a few, and to have slightly higher values than those of 
earlier estimates. As the present analysis is based on a 5% sample and confined 
to only 14 states, it is proposed to study the same for all the states and India 
in greater detail using full count data on age distribution and actul life 
tables as and when available.

PMID: 12280632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Rev Int Sociol. 1986 Oct-Dec;44(4):483-501.

[Recent evaluations of mortality among pensioners, due to work accidents].

[Article in Spanish]

Enriquez De Salamanca Navarro R, Conquero Gago A.

PIP: New life tables applicable to pensioners in Spain having work-related 
accidents are calculated using data for 1974 and 1978. Differences between these 
new tables and those used previously are outlined.

PMID: 12280641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Eur J Popul. 1987 Nov;3(1):1-5. doi: 10.1007/BF01797089.

[The emergence of a new scientific paradigm concerning an old phenomenon: 
demographic aging].

[Article in French]

Loriaux M.

PIP: Demographers should reconsider their approach toward demographic aging in 
industrialized countries, look at it in a positive light, and conduct research 
on aging to be ready for the inevitable. Most of the demographic literature 
considers the aging of the society as a socioeconomic disaster, threatening the 
whole social structure and economic fabric. The phenomenon is actually more 
complex. Demographic aging is different, for example, if it derives from longer 
life expectancy, from that resulting from lower fertility in young generations. 
The chief argument for aging as a threat is the imbalance of active to retired 
people, upsetting the ratio of workers paying into social security. This 
argument is a fallacy, because productivity is much more important than numbers 
of employed persons. Societies have endured much more serious imbalances in the 
past, and sometimes even profited by them. Demographers should consider an 
alternative scenario to the notion of marginalization of the elderly, who are 
poor, senile, handicapped, infirm, and unable to adapt. There will also be many 
who are wealthy, aware, creative, experienced and professionally qualified, and 
in control of not only their own lives, but of societal trends. The author calls 
them "gray panthers." It is vital that demographers study aging on a societal 
level, and learn the optimal conditions needed for adaptation to aging of the 
society. A few institutions are beginning to do so, and are listed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01797089
PMID: 12280729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1987 Jul;7(1):24-36.

[Changes in life expectancy of Koreans due to reduction in leading causes of 
death in 1985].

[Article in Korean]

Kim YS, Ko UR.

"This study examines potential gains in life expectancy of Korean males and 
females in 1985 when the three leading causes of death are totally eliminated. 
The greatest increase in life expectancy of Korean males would result from the 
elimination of malignant neoplasms (2.2 years at birth), whereas the life 
expectancy of Korean females would be lengthened the most (2.4 years) by 
elimination of cerebrovascular diseases. The implications of the results can 
provide useful information for the evaluation of the public health programs and 
health planning policy for [the Republic of Korea] in the future." (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12280804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1987 Jul;7(1):89-107.

[A study on health indicator and health affecting factors].

[Article in Korean]

Yoon CK, Kim JK.

PIP: Findings on the relationship between health indicators and health-affecting 
factors in both developing and developed countries, are reported. Regression 
analysis was used to detect the relationship between a health status indicator 
and 11 health-affecting factors. The study revealed a high interrelationship 
(over .95) between infant mortality rates and life expectancy, a finding that 
appears to justify the claim that, in developing countries, high infant 
mortality rates have contributed to lower life expectancy. Stepwise regression 
showed that infant mortality had a high correlation with both the health 
services and socioeconomic variables, while life expectancy was most closely 
associated with socioeconomic variables. 3 possible explanations for the 
striking degree of correlation found between health status and adult literacy 
rates are presented: 1) literacy rates represent the general level of education, 
which in turn reflect the level of socioeconomic development; 2) adult literacy 
and health status are linked by health education; and 3) a vicious cycle exists 
between low education level, poor health, and low incomes. Additionally, while 
the study confirmed the expected strong relationship between the number of 
physicians and health status, this relationship was weaker than the correlation 
between adult literacy levels and health status. Finally, the analytical results 
for the developed and developing countries were markedly different. In developed 
countries, the selected health-affecting factors do not explain the health 
status very well, suggesting that in these countries the selected health 
services and socioeconomic factors generally have little effect on health.

PMID: 12280807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Maandstat Bevolking. 1988 Apr;36(4):13-27.

[Life tables for the Netherlands by province, 1981-1985].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H, Tas R.

PIP: Differences in mortality by province in the Netherlands are analyzed using 
life table methods and data on internal migration. The results indicate that 
provincial mortality differences are small. Abbreviated life tables by sex and 
province of birth are included. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12280875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Stud Comp Int Dev. 1987 Fall;22(3):103-27. doi: 10.1007/BF02687145.

Fertility, development, and family planning, 1970-1980: an analysis of cases 
weighted by population.

Menard S.

PIP: A series of related studies (Freedman and Berelson, 1976; Mauldin and 
Berelson, 1978; and Tsui and Bogue, 1978) have presented empirical findings 
based on multiple regression analysis which indicated that family planning 
program effort (FP), as measured by an index developed by Lapham and Mauldin 
(1972), was the single most important predictor of (or influence on) fertility 
reduction in less-developed countries (LDCs). The basic results have been 
confirmed repeatedly. A more extensive data set was used to extend the analysis 
to a comparison of results of corss-sectional models circa 1970 and 1980. The 
study builds upon the results of past studies yet differs from them in several 
ways. All the variables in the present study were measured at 2 points in time: 
circa 1970 and circa 1980, allowing a comparison between cross-sectional models 
for 1970 and 1980. Among the cases included in this multivariate analysis was 
China, a country usually excluded for lack of data. The analysis was extend to 
85 countries. Cases were weighted by population, having the effect of increasing 
the impact of larger countries such as India and China on the outcome of the 
analysis. Total fertility rate (TFR) was used as an indicator of fertility. For 
1970, family planning program effort had the strongest direct influence on 
fertility (a result consistent with previous studies). Life expectancy at birth 
was the other direct influence. The direct influence of life expectancy at birth 
was less than that of family planning, but the total influence was greater. 
After life expectancy and family planning, school enrollment and relative 
educational status of women had the strongest indirect and total influences. The 
other variables all had a positive influence on fertility. When the total 
variance attributable was considered, directly and indirectly to each of the 
independent variables, urbanization, carlorie supply, and per capita gross 
national product all accounted for less than 5% of the variance in fertility, 
all of it indirect. Life expectancy, family planning, and school enrollment each 
explained (directly plus indirectly) more than 10% of the variance in fertility. 
The pattern differed somewhat for 1980. Calorie supply, per capita gross 
national product, and relative educational status of women had no influence, 
direct or indirect on fertility. Also for 1980, life expectancy had a stronger 
direct influence on fertility than family planning. Overall, life expectancy at 
birth, family planning program effort, and total school enrollment emerged as 
the principal influences on fertility.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02687145
PMID: 12280901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Rev Bras Estud Popul. 1987 Jan-Jul;4(1):61-76.

[Population policy in some Asian countries].

[Article in Portuguese]

Concepcion M.

PIP: In 1986 the population of Asia was estimated at 2.9 billion constituting 
58% of the world's population on 20% of the world's territory. By the year 2000 
the total population will reach 3-3.5 billion people. Fertility in China, the 
Koreas, and Singapore diminished by 40% between 1960-1965 and 1980-1985, and by 
26-34% in Indonesia, India, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand. In 
Malaysia, a pronatalist policy started in 1983 aims at attaining a population of 
70 million by 2100. Social, educational, and health programs have markedly 
reduced mortality in Sri Lanka and South Korea between 1960-1965 and 1980-1985 
and life expectancy exceeded 60 years in 1980. The figure for Burma, Indonesia, 
and India was 52-55 years for the same period. Bangladesh plans to reduce the 
birth rate from 5.8 children/woman in 1980 to 3.2 by 1990, while Thailand 
started a program in 1986 to increase it by 1.5%. Population distribution 
policies to alleviate urban congestion have been implemented in South Korea, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines. Immigration to Canada and the United 
States from Pakistan and South Korea have relieved internal population 
pressures. Almost half a million Koreans have migrated to 72 different countries 
between 1962- 1981. Successful population policies require the analysis of 
economic, educational, social, and cultural factors of demographics.

PMID: 12280935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Eur J Popul. 1988 May;3(2):123-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01796773.

[Concerning a reconsideration of the universality of the normal retirement age].

[Article in French]

Legare J, Desjardins B.

PIP: The calculation of retirement age in industrialized countries is critically 
examined. The arbitrary selection of age 65 is first discussed, and a new method 
for determining retirement age is then proposed, based on qualitative measures 
such as life expectancy and quality of life after age 65. The authors suggest a 
retirement age of 62 for men and 65 for women, noting that while their method 
arrives at approximately the same age as the traditional quantitative approach, 
the qualitative method can be adapted to account for changing conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796773
PMID: 12280980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Math Popul Stud. 1988;1(2):157-71, 207. doi: 10.1080/08898488809525269.

Stable growth in native-dependent multistate population dynamics.

Ledent J, Rogers A.

"Users of multistate life tables and projections have recognized that the 
Markovian assumptions underlying such models are unduly restrictive and should 
be relaxed whenever data permit. Efforts to include the influences of previous 
occupancies have included the incorporation of place-of-birth dependence. This 
paper addresses the stable growth properties of such generalized multistate 
models. It shows how place-of-birth-specific stable growth measures can be 
calculated without projection simply by solving the characteristic equation. An 
example using Canadian data illustrates the argument." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898488809525269
PMID: 12280985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Popul Res. 1987 Apr;4(2):32-40.

An analysis on life expectancy of the world population and trend of increase in 
China's life expectancy.

Xu Q.

PIP: Life expectancy is postively correlated with the per capita gross national 
product (GNP). There are exceptions, such as Qatar, which has a very high per 
capita GNP, but a life expectancy over 10 years less than the average level of 
developing countries. Also, in Sri Lanka, there is a relatively long life 
expectancy but low per capita GNP. Japan and Iceland have the longest life 
expectancy in the world, even though neither has the world's highest GNP. Life 
expectancy has been growing in developed countries since the beginning of the 
1900s; presently it is relatively stable (70-75 years). Life expectancy in 
developing countries is growing fast. The world has experienced a "population 
explosion," but, because of birth control measures, the world population should 
stabilize gradually in the next century. Life expectancy is expected to keep 
increasing. Medical developments contribute to greater life expectancy. The 1st 
life-span revolution occurred in 1776 when the smallpox vaccine was developed; 
the 2nd occurred with the discovery of antibiotics in the early 1950s. According 
to World Health Organization estimates, life expectancy in developed countries 
should reach 75-80 years by the end of the century. In 1981 China's life 
expectancy was 67.9 years. According to a UN model, China's life expectancy will 
reach 73 years by 2000. Life expectancy is associated with not only the economy, 
but also social, cultural, and environmental factors. The favorable noneconomic 
factors which have helped to decrease mortality and increase life expectancy in 
China include 1) the socialist system which provides a moderate living for all 
and has developed the health care system; 2) widespread and longtime use of 
traditional medicine; 3) the oriental culture and ethnic group; and 4) the fact 
that in some developed countries with a low level of urbanization, life 
expectancy exceeds 70 years (China's urban population will be 40% by the year 
2000). The author expects that China will only reach a life expectancy of 71-72 
years by 2000. However, the 2nd strategic goal of China's economic development 
is to attain or surpass the world's advanced level in 30-50 years. Thus, China's 
life expectancy should reach 75 years by 2020, 78 by 2040, and nearly 80 by 
2060.

PMID: 12281039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Popul Desenvolv. 1987 Sep-Oct;21(144):3-6.

[On demography in Third World countries].

[Article in Portuguese]

Alencar JA.

PIP: The demographic explosion after World War II was due to the sudden drop in 
mortality rates without an equivalent decrease of birth rates. Most countries in 
Asia, Latin American and Africa have had a natural growth rate of approximately 
2%/year, causing the population to double every 35 years. Fertility rates 
remained high due to local customs, socioeconomic environment, and religion; the 
mortality rate decreased dramatically due to medical progress and control of 
epidemics. The population in these less developed areas increased from 1950 to 
1975 from 1.7 to almost 3 billion, and is equivalent to 83% of the world's 
total. The world's population increased from 2.5 to 4 billion. The U.N. 
estimates that the worldwide population growth rate will go down to 0.9% by the 
year 2025, primarily due to a decrease of the 2% growth rate in the less 
developed countries to 1.1%. According to UN projections, the worldwide 
fertility rate has decreased from 38/1000 in the 1950s to 28.9 in 1975-80; it 
will reach 17.6/1000 by the year 2025. The birth rate decreased by 50% in East 
Asia but only by 2.5% in Africa, where it is expected to remain at the 40-50 
births per 1000 level, notably in countries such as Nigeria and Kenya. There has 
been a significant overall decrease in the world's mortality rate, and life 
expectancy rates increased from 45.8 in 1950 to 57.3 in 1980. The difference in 
life expectancy between the more developed and less developed regions was about 
24.1 years in the 1950s and is now 17.3 years. Africa has the highest mortality 
rate and the lowest life expectancy (less than 50 years) as do India, Indonesia 
and Bangladesh. China, however, has had a 21-year life expectancy rate increase 
from 46 in the 1950s to 67. Worldwide, the infant mortality rate appears to be 
the decisive factor in the population growth rate having decreased 130/1000 in 
1950-1955 to 88 in 1975-1980. In a LDC, the life expectancy of a newborn is 17 
years less than that of a child born in a developed country; at age 5, its life 
expectancy is 8 or 9 years less. For those with a high standard of living in the 
developing world there is little difference with the developed world. In Brazil, 
for instance the low income groups in the Northeast have a life expectancy of 45 
years and the more affluent groups in the South have a life expectancy of 67 
years.

PMID: 12281064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Cah Que Demogr. 1988 Spring;17(1):65-89.

[Differentials in mortality measured in terms of dissimilarity. Mortality 
differences between sexes according to twentieth-century Italian tables].

[Article in French]

Maccheroni C.

"Under some conditions, the comparison of life expectancies may lead to a much 
more accurate measure, in terms of dissimilarity between the empirical 
distributions of the number of years expected to live at each age. This paper 
analyses these conditions and applies the dissimilarity approach to the data of 
the Italian life tables of the 20th century." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12281198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Math Popul Stud. 1988;1(3):217-45, 317. doi: 10.1080/08898488809525276.

The multistate life table with duration-dependence.

Wolf DA.

"A method for generalizing the multistate, or increment-decrement, life table to 
include rates which depend upon duration of exposure to risk, as well as upon 
age, is proposed. The method is built upon the linear approximation, called the 
linear integration hypothesis, developed mainly by Rogers and his colleagues.... 
It is possible to derive several new summary indices of the life-table cohort's 
history, such as the mean and median time in current status, at any age. The 
method is illustrated using a simple four-state marital-status model which has 
appeared often in the literature; here, rates of divorce and widowhood vary by 
duration of marriage as well as age." An example is demonstrated using 1984 
period data for women in Finland aged 15-50. (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898488809525276
PMID: 12281207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Janasamkhya. 1987 Jun;5(1):1-25.

Toward a unified approach to expounding demographic indices.

Namboodiri K.

"Based on the notion that duration of occupancy of a demographic state is a 
random variable and defining demographic behaviours in terms of hazard rates or 
transitional intensities, this review paper shows that a framework of piecewise 
exponentials can provide a unified approach in expounding demographic indices." 
The primary focus is on mortality.

excerpt

PMID: 12281211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Janasamkhya. 1987 Jun;5(1):27-32.

Weighted least square estimates of the parameters of a model of survivorship 
probabilities.

Mitra S.

"A weighted regression has been fitted to estimate the parameters of a model 
involving functions of survivorship probability and age. Earlier, the parameters 
were estimated by the method of ordinary least squares and the results were very 
encouraging. However, a multiple regression equation passing through the origin 
has been found appropriate for the present model from statistical consideration. 
Fortunately, this method, while methodologically more sophisticated, has a 
slight edge over the former as evidenced by the respective measures of 
reproducibility in the model and actual life tables selected for this study."

excerpt

PMID: 12281212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


