900. Imbonezamuryango. 1987 Dec;(10):4-14.

[The concept of nutritional self-sufficiency and the demographic equilibrium of 
Rwanda].

[Article in French]

Habimana Nyirasafari G.

PIP: Achieving food self-sufficiency is the basic strategy of Rwanda's 4th 
5-year plan covering 1987-91. The population growth rate has increased from 3% 
in 1970 to 3.7% in 1983, with the population doubling between 1964 and 1985. 
Food production grew by about 4%/year between 1966-83, creating a slight 
increase in per capita food availability, but the 2171 calories available per 
capita is dangerously close to the theoretical minimum requirement of 2100 per 
day. The theoretical protein requirement is almost covered, but there is a 
serious shortage of oils. The increase in production since 1966 has been due 
almost exclusively to the extension of cultivated land. But the land supply is 
limited, and future production increases will need to be based on increased 
yields per unit cultivated. The National Office of Population has developed a 
simulation model that analyzes the parallel evolution of population and 
production so as to identify demographic and development policies that will 
assure food self-sufficiency and an improvement in living conditions. The 
population subsystem subjects the population divided by age and sex to the 
effects of fertility, migration, and mortality. Births are the result of 36 
different fertility rates applied to the population of women aged 14-49 years. 
The agricultural subsystem is tied to the population subsystem by comparison of 
the volume of population to that of production, by estimation of the proportion 
of the population living exclusively by subsistence agriculture, by calculation 
of the potential emigration resulting from overpopulation of the countryside, 
and by estimation of the links between nutritional level, mortality, and 
duration of breastfeeding. 5 annexes contain subsystems showing effects of 
demographic growth on education, employment, and health. The model has various 
limitations including those of the reliability of its data, but it is 
sufficiently precise for its main function of clarifying the choices facing 
policymakers. 6 scenarios of hypothetical future development of the Rwandan 
population were introduced into the model, ranging from no change to an increase 
in life expectancy from 48.6 years in 1984 to 68.5 in 2000 coupled with a 
decline in fertility from 8.6 to 3 children per woman. The model demonstrates 
that the only solutions which will have a significant impact on improving the 
nutritional status of the population are those which combine various actions 
affecting agriculture as well as population.

PMID: 12281224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Demogr Afr. 1986 Jul-Aug;(51):28-35.

[Female infant mortality in Bafia].

[Article in French]

Van Der Pol H.

PIP: The Brass and Hill-Trussell methods were applied to data on survival of 
mothers from the 1986 census of Bafia, Cameroon, to obtain estimates of adult 
female mortality. 25,845 persons were enumerated, but only 10,464 urban 
residents whose mothers were born in Bafia were included in this study. The 
Brass and Hill-Trussell methods gave very similar results, especially after age 
30. A more detailed analysis of results from the Hill-Trussell method 
demonstrates that mortality in Bafia has declined. The mortality levels for ages 
20 and 25 were probably underestimated. The levels according to the Coale and 
Demeny north type tables of 18.6 for age 20 and 16.3 for age 25 would correspond 
to life expectancies at birth in excess of 57.5-62.5 years. Life expectancy in 
Cameroon was estimated at 45.6 years in 1976. Given the better health and 
sanitary conditions enjoyed by urban residents of Bafia, the Coale and Demeny 
level of 13-14 corresponding to a life expectancy of 50.0-52.5 seems acceptable 
for 1973-74 and is in agreement with results of the Hill-Trussell technique. 
Reference dates calculated by the Brass-Bamgboye method appear less satisfactory 
than those obtained with the empirical method used by the Latin American 
Demographic Center. It is therefore recommended that a question on the date of 
death of the mother or father be added to the question on survival of the mother 
or father. In the case of Bafia, the data indicate a very strong though not 
impossible mortality decline equivalent to addition of 1 degree in the Coale and 
Demeny framework each 2 years, or to a gain of 1.25 years of life expectancy at 
birth each year for about 6 years. The question on survival of the mother was 
the source of numerous problems during the census enumeration, but the 
information obtained gave quite satisfactory results.

PMID: 12281225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Demogr Afr. 1986 Jul-Aug;(51):28-35.

[Female infant mortality in Batia].

[Article in French]

Van Der Pol H.

PIP: In 1986, a researcher of the Institute for Demographic Research and 
Training IFORD) applied the Brass, and the Hill-Trussel indirect estimation 
technics to the estimation of female adult mortality in the urban part of Bafia 
(25,845 inhabitants), Cameroon. He used the only available data: the 10,464 
questionnaires on mothers' survivorship administered in the census completed by 
the IFORD in urban Bafia, in 1986. The administration of these questionnaires 
met several difficulties on the field: some questionnaires were presented to 
uneligible people, and on the other hand, eligible people were not addressed the 
questionnaire; meanwhile some adopted motherless children said their mother was 
alive, causing underestimates of mortality. Nevertheless, applied to the data on 
motherless children resulting from these questionnaires, both technics gave 
almost identical results: both estimates show a mortality rate decline. Life 
expectancy in urban Bafia (50 to 52.5 years in 1973-1974; level 13-14 in 
Coale-Demeny's life table) is superior to the average life expectancy in 
Cameroon. This difference could be explained by the existence, in Bafia, of well 
developed health services. Then, the Brass-Bamgboye technic was applied to the 
retrospective estimation of the dates of reference, and results compared with 
those of the empirical technic used by the CELADE in Honduras and Costa-Rica. 
The latter appeared more promising after experiment. The results of this 
comparison confirmed the decline of mortality in Bafia (every 2 years, life 
expectation raises of 1 degree in Coale-Demeny's life table).

PMID: 12281226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Janasamkhya. 1987 Dec;5(2):89-94.

Mortality comparisons.

Krishnamoorthy S.

"Two approaches for mortality comparisons are suggested which produce comparable 
results. The cumulative force of mortality has been given an interpretation 
useful for mortality comparisons. The method of computing the resultant total 
expected life span when everyone is excused from death once, twice, etc., has 
been presented." The two approaches are then applied to 1966 data for Madagascar 
and the United States.

excerpt

PMID: 12281340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Renkou Yanjiu. 1986 Sep 29;(6):11-8.

[[An analysis of regional differential mortality]].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Z.

PIP: Regional differences in mortality and life expectancy in China are 
explored, and the socioeconomic, cultural, and educational factors affecting 
such differences are considered using data from the 1982 census. The author 
notes that mortality, particularly infant mortality, is highest in economically 
underdeveloped areas, and female infant mortality is high in both rural and 
urban areas. It is also observed that female life expectancy is 3.26 years 
longer than for males in urban areas, and 1.38 years longer in rural areas.

PMID: 12281350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Probl Econ. 1988 Dec;31(8):6-24.

Are things moving? On demographic processes and social policy.

Vishnevskii AG.

PIP: Some recent positive changes in demographic trends in the Soviet Union are 
described. These include an increase in life expectancy in 1986, particularly 
for males, and an increase in the birth rate, although fertility in European 
Russia is still below replacement level. The author then considers how social 
policy, including family policy, can be expected to influence demographic 
variables in accordance with the country's needs, particularly in light of major 
differences among regions in population dynamics. He concludes by considering 
the relationship between demographic factors and democracy.

PMID: 12281399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Rev Bras Estud Popul. 1986 Jul-Dec;3(2):47-65.

[Intermediate variables in the relation between infant-child mortality and the 
country's educational level].

[Article in Portuguese]

Hakkert R.

PIP: According to 1984 survey data, the probability of mortality for children 
before 2 years of age in Brazil in 1980 was 62/1000 in urban areas and 97/1000 
in rural areas. Both numbers vary considerably depending on the educational 
level of the mothers. Children of mothers with 5 or more years of education have 
a less than 40/1000 probability of mortality, but this figure increases to 
119/1000 in urban areas and 128/1000 in rural areas for children whose mothers 
have less than 1 year of education. In other Latin American countries the 
figures are similar. Since 1970 the infant-child mortality has diminished by 35% 
in urban areas and by 11% in rural areas. Most of the drop (32% in urban and 35% 
in rural areas) was attributable to a small segment of mothers with 5-8 years of 
schooling. The life expectancy of children is 17.5 and 16.6 years more in 
metropolitan areas of the North and the South, respectively, whose mothers have 
10 or more years of education than those with less than 1 year of schooling. 
Family income also has an effect on mortality, but its role is disputed. 
Biological factors associated with the mother, nutrition, and hygiene also 
affect mortality. Cultural values and religious precepts defining the role of 
women also play a decisive role. Communication technology plays a role, as the 
rate was 50% higher in families without radio of television.

PMID: 12281406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Consum Mark Abroad. 1988 Feb;7(2):2-9, 13.

Measuring Glasnost in and out of the U.S.S.R.

Cutler B.

PIP: Initiatives in the USSR, characterized by General Secretary Mikhail 
Gorbachev as "glasnost" (openness) and "perestroika" (restructuring), come after 
almost a decade of change in the People's Republic of China, yet the Soviet 
experiment, which emphasizes market activities, is hardly a monolithic effort. 
In 1982, the 286 million Soviet citizens who live on 2 continents will be 
affected by "perestroika" in markedly different ways. The complex demographics 
of the USSR will figure significantly in determining those unequal effects. It 
is likely, if Gorbachev's campaign continues as intended, that patient exporters 
who explore the new Soviet arena to test their marketing skills will experience 
success. In fact, the USSR has been conducting business with the US for years. 
To date, nearly a dozen corporations have signed joint ventures with the Soviet 
Union, and at least 50 more have expressed an interest. Those companies with 
long-standing Soviet relationships are most interested; they are familiar with 
the bureaucratic obstacles and have a network of Soviet contacts. Gorbachev has 
made it clear that the Soviet economy needs basic foreign technology to move 
into the 21st century on an equal footing with other industrialized nations. 
Along with attracting foreign capital, the USSR must get its domestic house in 
order. The growth in the gross national product, which hovered at an annual 2.5% 
in the early 1980s, must double, according to the Twelfth Five Year Plan 
(1986-90). The 1988 population of 286 million has relatively few men, 
particularly in older age groups, and a growing ethnic mix. Of late, planners 
have made a concerted effort to narrow the gap among ethnic groups by expanding 
maternity benefits and health care. The most immediate consequences of the 
changing ethnic structure emerge in the labor force. Entry-level workers are 
scarce in European Russia, where about 60% of all Soviet industrial activity 
takes place and will become more scarce in coming years. Gorbachev has tried to 
cut the consumption of alcohol, for in the past decade the Soviets devoted 
almost as many rubles to drink as to food. Alcohol abuse caused life expectancy 
to drop from 65 to 62 years for Soviet men and from 74 to 73 years for Soviet 
women between 1970-79. Some of the reasons for an unprecedented rise in infant 
mortality include influenza epidemics, poor prenatal care, a large number of 
abortions per woman, a decline in breastfeeding, and a delay in seeking medical 
attention for infants. Soviet workers have saved billions of rubles over many 
years simply because there is little available to buy.

PMID: 12281415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Maandstat Bevolking. 1988 Aug;36(8):11-9.

[Demographic review for the Netherlands, 1987].

[Article in Dutch]

Cruijsen H, Verhoef R.

PIP: Population trends in the Netherlands during 1987 are reviewed. The authors 
note an increase in the rate of population growth to 0.7 percent. Fertility also 
increased, although probably remained below replacement level. Life expectancy 
increased to 80 for females and 73.5 for males. Data are also presented on 
nuptiality, including divorce, and on both internal and international migration. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12281443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. New Int. 1988 Mar;(181):32.

Netherlands Antilles: country profile.

Thorndike T.

PIP: The Netherlands Antilles is the former name for the 5 islands called "the 
Antilles of the Five" (Curacao, Bonaire, St Maarten, St Eustatius, and Saba) and 
the separatist (since 1986) island of Aruba, which has its own prime minister 
(Henny Eamon -- the prime minister of the other 5 islands is Don Martina). The 
total 1988 population is 264,000. They enjoy one of the highest standards of 
living among the developing countries, with a per capita gross national product 
of $1610 guilder ($15,390 (US). Health services, life expectancy, and political 
freedom are excellent, due mainly to Dutch standards and aid. The position of 
women is also generally progressive. Literacy is excellent despite the different 
languages used (Dutch and Papiamento in Curacao, Bonaire and Aruba; English in 
St Maarten, St Eustatius, and Saba). Since the 2 major industries (oil refining 
and offshore financial services) have collapsed, tourism is limited mainly to 
the Windward Islands (St Eustatius and Saba), and there is no agriculture or 
fishing, the country's high standard of living is due to $530 million of Dutch 
aid, on which the country relies. Aruba will become independent in 1996, a 
future opposed by nearly all the 67,000 islanders, who fear it will mean the 
loss of Dutch aid.

PMID: 12281501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. China Popul Newsl. 1987 Oct;4(5):3-6.

Asia's population and development in retrospect and prospect.

Wu C.

PIP: By 1989 Asia's population will reach 3 billion. That Asia's countries can 
change the course of population development has been shown by China, whose 
population growth rate has decreased to 1.2%. 58% of the world's population in 
1985 was Asian, and 53% of it was concentrated in 11 Asian countries, of which 
37.6% was accounted for by India and China. Asia's population density is 3 times 
the world average, and the number of persons sustained by a square kilometer of 
land in Asia is 2.5 times the world average. Asia's population is young (median 
age 20.3), which means a high dependency burden, a large number of women of 
childbearing age, and low quality of life, as measured by infant mortality, life 
expectancy, and literacy. Rapid population growth ensures a low rate of 
development. Asia's goals are to achieve a 1% growth rate by year 2000, zero 
population growth and replacement level by 2015 for East Asia and 2020 for South 
Asia. The World Bank estimates that Asia's population will not stabilize until 
the end of the 21st century, by which time it will have reached 6 billion. Asia 
must find a way of achieving both population control and economic development. 5 
recommendations are made to the Asian Forum of Parliamentarians on Population 
and Development (AFPPD): 1) that the AFPPD sponsor the activities of "the Day of 
3 billion"; 2) that seminars and conferences on population be held among Asian 
nations; 3) that high-fertility countries adopt late marriages, few births, and 
programs for maternal and child health; 4) that organizations for family 
planning be strengthened and given the resources to upgrade the status of women; 
and 5) that international cooperation in the area of population be intensified.

PMID: 12281590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Jahrb Natl Okon Stat. 1988 Mar;204(3):241-54.

[Fertility life tables].

[Article in German]

Grunewald W.

"Three tables for measuring human fertility are presented. The first, the 
Parity-Fertility-Life-Table, includes the intensity of fertility only. The 
second table, the Marriage-Duration-Fertility-Life-Table, bases on the 
Parity-Fertility-Life-Table and measures the tempo of fertility altogether. The 
third table, the Birth-Interval-Fertility-Life-Table, completes the 
Marriage-Duration-Fertility-Life-Table in considering the point of time, at 
which the last parity is reached." The methods are illustrated using official 
data for the Federal Republic of Germany. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12281599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Popul Res. 1988 Jun;5(2):40-8, 39.

Estimation on indexes of China's life tables: 1953-1964 and 1964-1982.

Zhai Z.

PIP: Owing to imperfect death registration in the vast rural areas of China, it 
has been impossible to get comparatively accurate age-specific mortality rates 
for the period from the 1950s to the 1960s. Censuses conducted in 1953, 1964, 
and 1982 enable us to estimate indexes of the life table from numbers of 
population by age, but the application of the traditional "survivor ratio method 
based on the census" in China has many limitations. 1st, military men are not 
included in the numbers of population by age in the 3 censuses, resulting in a 
very inaccurate survival ratio calculated with intercensal cohorts. 2nd, the 
long intercensal intervals leave gaps in the column of survival ratio, making it 
extremely difficult to estimate child mortality rates. 3rd, as the method relies 
very much on the model life tables, it is impossible to determine in advance, 
due to lack of data, China's mortality pattern and how unique it is. Using 
Preston and Coale's any-population formulas, this article estimates, from 
numbers of population by age in the 3 censuses, the life tables for 1953-1964 
and 1964-1982 for males and females. The formulas for calculating these tables 
are also given. A comparison with the 1975 Tumor Prevention and Treatment 
Research Office retrospective survey shows very similar probabilities of dying. 
The author finds the quality of the 1957 survey data unsatisfactory, with 
mortality for many age groups being on the low side, which means that the mean 
life expectancy calculated with these data is much higher. From this point of 
view, it is logical that the mean life expectancy in the 1953-1964 life table 
calculated by the author is lower than that in the 1957 life table. However, 
Banister's calculations of life expectancy are even lower than those of the 
author and Coale's are even lower still. Therefore, even if the author's levels 
are low, they are probably not too low.

PMID: 12281607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Sri Lanka Popul Dig. 1986 Jun;(1):23-7.

Changing demography of Sri Lanka.

De Silva S.

PIP: The point to be made in this article about the changing demography of Sri 
Lanka is that demographic conditions (an older population and growth rate of 
1.6) are favorable for economic growth. Planning for economic growth is 
demonstrated in discussing trends and their relationship to economic development 
rather than providing a macroeconomic analysis. The 1st demographic 
characteristic of importance is the age structure of the population, which 
identifies labor force potential, dependents, and those not economically active 
in order to calculate required social services. Consumer expenditure patterns 
are affected, as well as educational costs. The rapid mortality decline of the 
1940's and the high fertility up to the 1960's created a broad based age 
structure that swelled student populations and labor force (unemployment). The 
1980's is marked by 39% 15 years in 1981 versus 35% in 1971, and 6.4$ 60 years 
in 1981 versus 6.6% in 1971. Anticipated trends based on either 2.1, 2.5, or 2.9 
children/mother indicate that the population structure would remain the same 
except for those 0-14 years. This amounts to 20-21.3 million by 2001 and 5.5-6.7 
million 15 years. Economic planning is affected by the following age groups: 
preschoolers, school age children, working population, and old age population. A 
gradual decline in preschoolers would eventually lead to a 9% population versus 
a 13% in 2001. 23% of the current population of 5-14 year olds will decrease 
after 1996 with slow or medium growth to 19-21%. The next 2 decades will 
experience a swelling of the working age population from 9.56 million to 12.7 
million, which was 15 years ago the total population figure. The rate change is 
from 58.2% to 60-63%. By 2001 the 60 year old population will be 9% (1.8 
million) or equal to those 5 years. Attention, thus, needs to be paid to the 
equitability of distribution of services and improvement in quality rather than 
expansion. New jobs need to be created to prevent high unemployment, with a 
demand reaching, by the year 2000, 75,000/year. Transportation, housing, 
internal movement and overcrowding of cities by migrant workers are other areas 
to be addressed. With a rising population reaching early retirement of 55 years, 
many would be dependents without pensions or retirement benefits. More women 
comprise this group since life expectancy is 70.5 years versus 67.5. More women 
comprise this group since life expectancy is 70/.5 years versus 67.5. If the 
output/capital ratio of 0.25 at 1.6 growth rate could be increased with a 20% or 
greater investment, which means an annual growth rate of per capita product of 
3-4%, economic development would be enhanced.

PMID: 12281615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. New Int. 1988 Nov;(189):32.

Fiji: country profile.

Jagan L.

PIP: Fiji is a country consisting of 300 South Pacific islands, of which the 
largest is Vitu Levu, which includes the capital, Suva. The islands are home to 
700,000 people, of whom 50% are Indian, 46% Melanesian, and the rest Chinese or 
European. The official language is English, and the major religions are Hinduism 
and Christianity. Literacy is 79% for men and 64% for women, whose status is 
generally low in this patriarchal society. Infant mortality is 27/1000 live 
births, but life expectancy is 70 years. The British began sending missionaries 
and manufactured goods in the early 1800s and annexed the islands in 1874 as a 
source of sugar, for which they expropriated the land and imported the Indians 
as agricultural workers. Sugar remains the largest export along with coconut 
oil, gold, and timber. Manufactured goods, food, fuel, and chemicals are 
imported, and the national debt is over $200 million. Foreign investment, mostly 
by Australia, is $13.2 million. Inflation is 20%; 200,000 people are unemployed, 
and poverty is general except for the urban elite. The Fijian dollar is worth 
US. 80. Independence, granted in 1970, replaced colonial control with military 
governments, currently that of Colonel Rambuka, who refused to allow a 
democratically elected government to take office. Faced with a declining economy 
and the political power of the fascist Taukei movement, the Indians, who had 
been the shopkeepers, craftsmen and bureaucrats during the later period of 
colonial rule, have been emigrating en masse.

PMID: 12281623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Genus. 1988 Jan-Jun;44(1-2):25-39.

On inequality before death and life table: summary measures.

Silber J.

This study suggests the use of 2 new summary indices of the level and structure 
of mortality, called equivalent lengths of life. These are adjusted life 
expectancies, a correction being made for the dispersion and eventually also for 
the asymmetry of the distribution of ages at death. Their computation is based 
on the use of Gini's Mean Difference. A short illustration is also presented, 
based on Italian life tables for the period 1881-1970.

PMID: 12281667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Maandstat Bevolking. 1989 Jan;37(1):14-20.

[Demographic estimates for 1988].

[Article in Dutch]

De Beer J.

PIP: Demographic statistics for the Netherlands are presented for the year 1988. 
Data are included on population size and growth, fertility and mortality rates, 
migration, and life expectancy by sex. A decrease in population growth is 
attributed mainly to a decrease in migration to the Netherlands. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

PMID: 12281686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Popul Bull. 1988 Sep;43(3):1-53.

America's elderly.

Soldo BJ, Agree EM.

The older population in the US has grown twice as fast as the rest of the 
population in the last 20 years. This growth is expected to accelerate early in 
the next century as the large baby boom cohorts move through middle age and 
become elderly. Today, about 1 in 8 Americans is 65 years of age or older. By 
2030, 1 out of every 4 persons will be in older person. Substantial improvements 
in life expectancy at all ages, particularly at extreme old age, mean that not 
only will there be a greater proportion of elderly in the population, but the 
more will be the "oldest-old," over 85. By 2050, they will be more than 1/4 of 
the population. As people live longer, many are active and healthy well past 
retirement. However, many individuals living into their 80s have to cope with 
chronic disabilities affecting their capacity to perform day-to-day activities. 
Modern medicine has made great inroads against mortality from such illnesses as 
heart disease and stroke, but has not eliminated all the effects of these 
diseases. As the population ages, the issues of health care funding and 
availability, particularly long-term care, increase in importance. Contrary to 
widespread belief, the elderly are not abandoned by their families to nursing 
home care. The vast majority--95%--live in the community. Those needing 
assistance generally receive help from family and friends. This has created a 
tremendous demand for federal subsidies to support community-based long-term 
care services. 1/4 of the federal budget is now spent on the elderly--$270 
billion in 1986. Medicaid and Medicare are among the government's success 
stories, but these programs are threatened by their very success. Economists 
estimate that government expenditures are 3 times greater for the elderly than 
for children, raising the issue of "intergenerational equity"--how to balance 
the amount of care society provides to those who have already contributed with 
what is provided to those who will contribute in the future. The view that the 
young and old simply compete for fixed resources is misleading. It ignores the 
interdependence among generations, and the burdens and benefits of 
intergenerational transfers at all stages of the life course.

PMID: 12281725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Lat Am Popul Hist News. 1989 Spring;(15):9-14.

The female population of Chile, 1855-1964: a microcomputer balance sheet method.

Mccaa R.

PIP: This article summarizes the essential features of the inverse projection 
method and applies it to data on the female population of Chile for the period 
1855-1964. Changes in age distribution, vital rates, life expectancy, fertility, 
and gross and net reproduction rates over time are described.

PMID: 12281916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. New Int. 1988 Sep;(187):32.

Hong Kong: country profile.

Fozzard A.

PIP: In the 1840s, the small fishing community that is now Hong Kong became a 
British colony and an important naval base for the Opium Wars. Now it is a 
leading capitalist center operating on mainland communist China. Hong Kong is 
scheduled to go back to China in 1997. In the agreement signed between the 
British government and China, Hong Kong's present lifestyle is guaranteed for at 
least 50 years. Textbook colonialism rules here. Foreigners hold the key jobs 
and earn much more than do the indigenous people. They even receive subsidized 
housing in this very high rent colony. As for the Hong Kong Chinese, 
overcrowding into 2 room apartments is the norm even though the government tries 
to provide more housing units. The large skyscrapers in the New Territories 
breed their unique social and mental health problems, such as poverty, drug 
abuse and frustration. Essentially all food is imported from communist China, 
yet agriculture in Hong Kong does exist--pig farms, duck lakes, and fields of 
the popular vegetable choi sum. Major industry comprise textiles and sweat shops 
which pay their workers (mostly illegal immigrants and children with no legal 
protection) wages that are 1/4 of those paid in Great Britain. Financial 
services, trade, and tourism may soon dominate Hong Kong's economy. Almost 4 
million tourists visit Hong Kong yearly, often looking for bargains. Despite 
Hong Kong's active Western-like business climate, Chinese culture still abounds. 
Traditional incense burns in Buddhist temples. Snake soup is served in 
restaurants. Plus traditional medicine practiced alongside Western medicine 
contributes to Hong Kong having 1 of the lowest infant mortality rates in the 
world (9/1000) and to its high life expectancy of 76 years.

PMID: 12282043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Popul Res. 1988 Dec;5(4):1-16.

Analysis of China's province-specific mortality.

Hao H, Arriaga E, Banister J.

PIP: This paper describes regional mortality differentials in China's 28 
provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions, using data from the 1982 
population census and other related sources. China as a whole and in its 
provinces has achieved great success in mortality decline. The live expectancies 
of all provinces were higher than those of developing countries, especially when 
compared to countries with a per capita income similar to China's. The 
difference between the highest and lowest life expectancies for provinces was 13 
years for males and 17 years for females. The lowest mortality was found in the 
eastern coastal provinces, especially those with the highest level of 
industrialization and urbanization. The data divides China into 4 groups. The 
largest group includes the 7 provinces or municipalities in north and 
northeastern China, which is characterized by low infant and child mortality. 
The 2nd largest group includes the southern provinces which are located along 
the banks of the Changjiang River. The mortality patterns of these provinces 
were similar to the national average, although they showed considerable 
differentials. The 3rd group included 4 provinces which are located in north 
central China. They have infant mortality similar to the national average, while 
child mortality was on the low side. The 4th group included those provinces and 
autonomous regions which are located in the northwest and southwest parts of 
China. Infant and child mortality were high, and mortality in this group was the 
highest in the country. 2 significant features of female mortality were 1) a 
rise in female mortality in the age group 50-60 in the north and northwest 
group, possibly due to higher rates of smoking, and 2) rises in age groups 15-19 
to 25-29 in provinces such as Shandong, which must relate to peak fertility 
ages. In those provinces with a higher mortality level, female mortality was 
higher at ages 1-4. With mortality decline, sex differences in life expectancy 
increased, and this difference resulted mainly from the sex mortality 
differences in old age groups.

PMID: 12282092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Maandstat Bevolking. 1989 Jun;37(6):12-21.

[Demography of the Netherlands 1988].

[Article in Dutch]

Cruijsen H, Van Der Erf RF, Verhoef R.

PIP: This is a demographic review of the Netherlands for the year 1988. Tables 
and graphs present data on natural increase, population growth, fertility rate, 
death rate, migration, demographic aging, marriage patterns, family 
characteristics, and life expectancy. Data are from official Dutch sources. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12282101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. World Dev Forum. 1988 Aug 31;6(15):2.

Egypt's falling IMR.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In Egypt, the infant mortality rate (IMR) has been reduced from 120/1000 
live births in 1979 to 55/1000 births in 1988. This is one of the fastest 
declines of a country's IMR on record. A government commitment to increase per 
capita GNP and to meet the health and welfare needs of the people contributed to 
decline in the IMR. In the 1950s and 1960s, the Egyptian government executed a 
land reform program while it also assisted farmers with advice and extension 
services. These events greatly increased crop production which in turn led to an 
improvement in the people's quality of life. Other factors that helped the IMR 
to decrease were not planned. For example, employment opportunities expanded 
throughout the Middle East. Egyptians who took these jobs sent money back to 
their villages, therefore adding to the village's resources. As a result of this 
departure of manpower, real agricultural wages for the landless increased 
substantially. In addition, the highly motivated farmers increased production 
which caused an increase in jobs and demand for work. The US also played a 
significant role in the fall of the IMR. US aid concentrated on programs that 
would reduce the incidence of many infectious diseases that mostly strike 
infants and children 5 years old. Examples include immunization programs, 
village sanitation and safe water and drainage projects, and an oral rehydration 
project. The aforementioned examples of the Egyptian government and people's 
total commitment to the development of their economy and the improvement in the 
standard of living all contributed to the rapid decline of the IMR.

PMID: 12282155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Popul Today. 1988 Oct;16(10):12.

Spotlight: Republic of Korea.

Patriquin W.

PIP: The Republic of Korea is a newly industrialized country (per capita gross 
national product $2370) of 42.6 million people, occupying 38,000 square miles on 
the southern part of the Korean peninsula. With heavy industrialization, the 
cities have grown rapidly; Seoul, the capital, has a population of 10 million. 
The rate of natural increase fell from 2.9% in 1958 to 1.7% in 1980. The small 
family (3 or fewer children) is becoming the norm, and the total fertility rate 
is 2.1. The birth rate is 19/1000 and the death rate is 6/1000. Infant mortality 
is 30/1000, and life expectancy is 68 years. 44% of women were practicing 
contraception in 1988, but 63% were ever-users. Best-known methods were the 
pill, the IUD, the condom, sterilization, and the rhythm method.

PMID: 12282164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Popul Bull. 1989 Jul;44(2):1-43.

The graying of Japan.

Martin LG.

Japan's rapidly aging population has become a top policy issue, especially as 
the increasing costs of pensions and medical care are debated. With the highest 
life expectancy on earth, the Japanese potentially face long periods of 
retirement, as well as the possibility of long periods of disability. Although 
family support of the elderly is thought to have been strong traditionally, the 
recent decline in co-residence with children is 1 indication that the way 
support is given may be changing. This issue is of particular concern to the 
government, which wants to avoid any greater responsibility for the elderly than 
is necessary given the dramatic population aging yet to come. The government is 
also encouraging employers to provide more employment opportunities for the 
elderly at the same time that it is trying to raise the eligibility age for the 
receipt of public pensions. There is resistance on the part of employers, 
however, because wages and retirement allowances in Japan are positively related 
to length of employment. Furthermore, it is not clear whether elderly Japanese 
of the future will be as willing to work, if they learn to enjoy increased 
leisure early in their careers. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that population 
aging will lead to Japan's economic decline. Although the savings rate may 
decline somewhat, restructuring of the economy and continued overseas investment 
should keep the economy growing in the long run. Important in both the care of 
the frail elderly and the continued growth of the economy will be the roles 
played by middle-aged Japanese women.

PMID: 12282193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Janasamkhya. 1988 Dec;6(2):127-35.

A note on life table measures from survey data.

Rao KV, Balakrishnan TR.

PIP: This note clarifies the issues involved in interpreting summary measures 
arrived at through life-table analysis of cross-sectional survey data and shows 
how wrong the comparison of such measures with observed rates can be. This short 
investigation emphasizes the need for greater understanding in choosing the 
right summary measure and in interpreting the measure for a hypothetical cohort. 
It is important to realize that the life table is not a projection or prediction 
but rather allows us to answer certain questions conditionally.

PMID: 12282253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Janasamkhya. 1988 Dec;6(2):159-68.

A new method of estimating infant and child mortality from data on children ever 
born and children surviving.

Pathak KB, Ram F, Singh BS.

PIP: This paper proposes a method to estimate infant and childhood mortality 
from the data on children ever born and children surviving by age of the mother 
without using any model life table. Further in this procedure, actual 
age-specific fertility rates of the population have been used rather than the 
model fertility schedules. The method is illustrated with the data for India and 
some selected states. The estimate of 1 to the 5th power obtained by using this 
procedure is slightly higher than that obtained using Brass techniques. For most 
of the states and India, the estimates of the infant mortality rate are close to 
the other estimates.

PMID: 12282255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Janasamkhya. 1988 Dec;6(2):183-6.

On "mortality comparisons" by Krishnamoorthy.

Mitra S.

"This short note deals with Krishnamoorthy's interpretation of the cumulative 
values of the force of mortality function and his measure of improvement in life 
expectancy if everyone's life is saved once or more than once."

excerpt

PMID: 12282257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Sociol Trav. 1988;(2):367-80.

[Physicians confront abortion].

[Article in French]

Ferrand M.

PIP: France's liberalized 1975 abortion law created a crisis of conscience among 
physicians, who had the same heterogeneous range of attitudes toward abortion as 
the population at large. The new law modified the traditional function of 
physicians and gave rise to a new type of physician-patient relations. Between 
1920-73, most French physicians shared the dominant pronatalist views and were 
content with antiabortion laws that penalized medical personnel more severely 
than the general population. While family planning became increasingly 
acceptable to the society and to some physicians, most medical personnel 
continued to have very disapproving attitudes toward it. The failure of 
physicians to take a more active role in assuring access to family planning 
became a factor in militant demands for legalization of abortion. The Council of 
the Order of Physicians, however, wished to limit its concessions to extension 
of therapeutic abortion to certain medical indications. Surveys in the early 
1970s indicated that physicians' attitudes toward abortion were strongly 
influenced by age and medical specialty, with younger physicians and general 
practitioners most likely to favor liberalized access to abortion and older 
physicians and specialists most opposed. Among specialists, psychiatrists were 
most in favor of liberalized access. 80% of psychiatrists but only 48% of 
gynecologists favored abortion in case of risks to the mental health of the 
woman. Female physicians regardless of age and specialization were always more 
in favor of liberalization than their male counterparts. The new law eventually 
adopted gave physicians the right to refuse to participate in abortions but also 
prevented them from completely denying a patient an abortion. Nevertheless, the 
patient was required to have a personal interview with a physician in which he 
was instructed to warn her of the dangers of abortion to her future procreation 
and otherwise to dissuade her. The physician also had the duty of providing 
information and counselling on contraception. The Council of the Order of 
Physicians did not oppose the action in 1980 to make the new law permanent, as 
long as the conscience clause remained in force. The reactions of individual 
medical practitioners to the new abortion law were complex and variable. 2 
factors determining the attitudes of physicians were their feelings on whether 
respect for unborn life should be absolute or whether the mother's situation of 
distress should be considered, and whether an abortion is a medical act or 
merely a procedure using a medical technique. Despite unease among many 
physicians at the prospect of performing abortions and distaste for the 
procedure, the majority of physicians are not in favor of demedicalizing 
abortion through, for example, a greater use of RU-486.

PMID: 12282275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. New Int. 1988 Jul;(185):32.

Suriname: country profile.

Thorndike T.

PIP: Established as a trading post by the people of the Netherlands in the 
1600's, Suriname grew into an agricultural colony farming sugar and tobacco. The 
Dutch have sustained a presence in Suriname, and in 1975, they granted $2.7 
billion in aid over 14 years. However, despite financial assistance, Suriname 
has undergone a number of economic and identity crises in the past few years. 
Ethnically, the country is divided into groups, including Creoles, East Indians, 
Indonesians, Amerindians, and others. Economically, the GNP has declined from 
$2,650 in 1983 to $1,650. A 1980 political takeover by the military promised 
relief but instead brought about oppression and tragedy. As a result, the Dutch 
government discontinued aid to Suriname. Civil unrest resulted in the damage of 
bauxite installations; the exportation of bauxite is one of the primary economic 
sources for Suriname. The current government is considered moderate left, but it 
is still subject to a military veto. Although life expectancy, literacy, and the 
position of women are good, self-reliance is greatly affected by an increasing 
foreign debt and freedom and income distribution are negatively affected by 
discriminatory policies and oppressive practices.

PMID: 12282338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Demografie. 1989;31(3):229-38.

[A contribution to the calculation of Czechoslovak life tables].

[Article in Czech]

Pecka J.

PIP: Alternative methods of developing life tables are reviewed, and their 
application to Czechoslovak data is considered. The King-Hardy methods is 
selected and applied to mortality data for the Czech part of the country for 
1985. Other methods used to calculate mortality at advanced ages are also 
described. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12282384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Demografie. 1989;31(3):239-50.

[Mortality characteristics of the Gypsy population of Czechoslovakia].

[Article in Czech]

Kalibova K.

PIP: Mortality trends among the Gypsy population of Czechoslovakia are analyzed. 
Data are from the 1970 and 1980 censuses. The results suggest that the life 
expectancy among the Gypsy population is as low as 55.3 years for males and 59.9 
years for females. Particularly high mortality between the ages of 6 and 35 is 
noted. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12282385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Int Migr. 1989 Sep;27(3):389-409. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1989.tb00354.x.

Physician-nurse migration to the United States: regional and health status 
origins in relation to legislation and policy.

Rockett IR, Putnam SL.

PIP: This article examines the origins of physicians and nurses who were 
admitted as permanent immigrants to the US from 1962-1979. Data are mainly from 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Countries used in the developmental 
analysis are only those whose population was estimated at 1 million or more as 
of mid-1979, encompassing 99% of the physicians and 97% of the nurses. Life 
expectancy at birth is the criterion used to differentiate origin countries by 
developmental dimension of health status. During the study period, health 
workers constituted about 30% of immigrants admitted to the US; of these, nurses 
and physicians constituted 72-82% throughout the study period. The period 
1962-1979 has 4 distinct phases, marked by important legislative and/or policy 
changes; 1) 1962-1965, when the McCarran-Walter Act prevailed; 2) ending in 
1968, the 2nd phase covers the transition mandated under the 1965 Immigration 
Act, which encouraged physician immigration; 3) the 3rd phase, 1969-1976, covers 
the transition to the 1976 Immigration and Nationality Act amendments; and 4) 
the 4th stage is 1977-1979. Results show that 1) under the McCarran-Walter Act, 
North America became the dominant physician source; 2) from 1966-1968, Asia 
attained dominance as the physician source and became even more predominant 
after 1968; 3) North America produced relatively few physicians in the early 
1970s; 4) Europe produced substantially fewer physicians in the 1970s than in 
the 1960s; 5) South America, Africa, and Oceania were the lowest contributors of 
physicians; 6) during the McCarran-Walter years, North America and Europe 
produced almost 90% of nurses admitted into the US; 7) the 1965 Immigration Act 
and its aftermath resulted in Asia becoming the dominant source of nurses; 8) 
prior to the 1965 Immigration Act, Canada generated 20% of the aggregate number 
of physicians; 9) the Philippines surpassed Canada during the transition and 
India led after the transition; and 10) Canada supplied 30% of the nurses up 
through the transition, with the Philippines in the lead 1969-1979. Low health 
status countries were a relatively minor nurse source. Health status at the 
origin was a far less significant determinant of physician immigration than that 
of nurses. English language high and low health status country groups produced 
substantially more physician and nurse immigrants that their corresponding 
non-English language counterparts. The US attracted more physicians and nurses 
from less developed countries than more developed countries after 1968.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1989.tb00354.x
PMID: 12282406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Biol Soc. 1989 Sep;6(3):113-6.

Sex and regional differentials in longevity in Ontario.

Sharma RD.

PIP: Average life expectation at birth is a measure of mortality and is often 
taken as an indicator of the overall wellbeing of a society. This study examines 
data on life expectancy for the counties and regional municipalities of Ontario 
from 1921 to 1981 and analyzes the relationship with social and economic 
variables in 1981. The study concludes that, despite the appreciable improvement 
in life expectancy for both sexes in Ontario in the last 60 years, there still 
remain pronounced sex differences. Life expectancy at birth in Ontario was 72 
for males and 79 for females in 1981, compared to 59 and 61 respectively in 
1921. These increases are remarkably different between the earlier years and the 
older ages. Expenditure on social services has the strongest effect on 
longevity, and in different directions at different ages. Female life expectancy 
seems to benefit at the older ages from expenditures on social services, by 
contrast to that in males and at younger ages. Population per physician and 
income have a stronger influence on the life expectancy of males than female. 
The view that life expectancy at birth is a sensitive indicator of social 
variables is confirmed, but this appears to be particularly so for males.

PMID: 12282414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1989 Apr;(190):50-4.

[The mortality of centenarians in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Hanada K.

PIP: Mortality trends among centenarians in Japan are analyzed using data from 
official demographic surveys taken between 1975 and 1986 and from the National 
Registry of People of Advanced Age. A life table of mortality over age 100 for 
every six months is included.

PMID: 12282505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Biom J. 1989;31(3):339-57. doi: 10.1002/bimj.4710310315.

A probabilistic approach to the construction of competing-risk life tables.

Hsieh JJ.

"This paper aims to identify net and partial-crude probabilities in the 
competing-risk life table context, by using probabilistic approaches. Five types 
of lifelength random variables are defined to formulate these nonidentifiable 
probabilities. General expressions for net and partial-crude probabilities are 
first derived under independent risks assumptions. Two sets of explicit formulas 
for estimating the net and partial-crude probabilities are then derived in terms 
of the identifiable overall and crude probabilities by making the additional 
assumption of piecewise uniform distribution of the lifelength random variables. 
A study of the degree to which nonidentifiability can affect the net and 
partial-crude probabilities in a variety of situations is developed. An example 
from cross-sectional studies is employed to illustrate the methodology 
developed."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.4710310315
PMID: 12282507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Contracept Fertil Sex (Paris). 1989 May;17(5):479-81.

[Mamy-boom and baby-flop, pill and pill].

[Article in French]

Geraud R.

PIP: Data from France's National Institute of Demographic Studies indicate that 
in 1986, 778,859 infants were born in France, including 80,874 to foreign 
mothers. France's total fertility rate was 1.83, higher than the 1.40 of the 
Federal Republic of Germany or the 1.35 of Italy but not high enough to ensure 
replacement. A 1988 survey by the National Institute of Demographic Studies 
indicated that almost 2/3 of fertile-aged French women used pills or IUDs. 7% 
had undergone sterilization, 4% were infertile, 13% had no partners, and 10% 
were pregnant or desired to become pregnant. All the developed countries, 
regardless of their form of government, have low fertility rates. The complete 
explanations of the trend to low fertility are not known. Economic and 
sociological explanations probably carry less weight than psychological factors. 
The desire for material goods, greater freedom of women, changing roles of men 
