in the family and society, and fragility of marriages probably all play a part. 
The pill and to a lesser extent abortion have been blamed for the declining 
fertility, but do not furnish the complete explanation. Greater availability of 
RU 486 may cause further decline, but nobody can predict with assurance. Falling 
nuptiality, increased nonmarital cohabitation with its low fertility rates, the 
low rate of remarriage after divorce, and the greater life expectancy of women 
all affect France's population structure and prospects. By 2010, some 20% of the 
European population will be aged 65 and over. By 2035 almost 10 million persons 
will be over 70 years old in France, and nearly 2/3 of them will be female. This 
large cohort of elderly will require expensive care that the smaller young 
cohorts will be expected to finance. Intergenerational solidarity, however, 
already shows signs of strain. Serious conflicts will inevitably arise over the 
care and maintenance of this large elderly population group and will be 
exacerbated by the uneven population structure resulting from current low 
fertility.

PMID: 12282577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Demogr Afr. 1989 Mar-Apr;(59):31-40.

[Population planning unit is developed in the Congo].

[Article in French]

Amouali C, Poukouta P.

PIP: This article is an update on the demographic situation in the Congo and the 
institutionalization of a population unit in The Ministry of Plan. From 1974-84 
the population increased 44.9% going from 1,319,790 to 1,912,429 at a growth 
rate of 3.48% and possibly doubling in 20 years (2005). However, the major 
transformation has been the growth of the urban areas over the rural. From 
1974-84 the rural population went from 819,430 to 934,849 while the urban 
population went from 500,360 in 1974 to 977,580 in 1984. The growth rate of the 
rural areas was 1.22% while that for the urban was 6.38% Infant mortality rate 
stands at 73/1000; life expectancy is 46.9 for men and 50.0 for women. The 
average fertility rate is 6. This demographic situation with the inherent 
problems of the rapidly growing urbanization of the 2 principal cities, 
Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire, has led to problems in health services and high 
morbidity and mortality rates. The Government has created 3 national 
organizations to coordinate population activities in the country: 1) The 
National Council on Population, (1988) an interministerial council, presided 
over by the Prime Minister, that defines and formulates national population 
policies as integral components to the country's socioeconomic development 
plans; 2) The National Commission on Population (CONAPO), headed by the Minister 
of Plan, Finance and Economics as the administrative organ of The National 
Council on Population, and responsible for the technical and evaluation 
activities of The National Council on Population; and 3) The Population Planning 
Unit headed by the Director of Human Resources in the Ministry of Plan 
responsible for identifying, formulating and evaluating population policies in 
the Congo. These institutions were created as a result of the 1974 Bucharest 
Conference and the 1984 Arusha Conference were population and development were 
considered integral components, and of results of 2 censuses and population 
surveys highlighting the demographic situation in the Congo.

PMID: 12282582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Popul Bull UN. 1989;(27):108-24.

Population structure.

Kono S.

This paper reviews recent new trends in population structure in the world and 
its major regions in order to access the determinants of those trends and 
explore issues regarding the recent and projected changes in the age structure 
of population and the relationships of those changes to social and economic 
development. In particular, the paper compares the change in age structure 
projected by the Population Division of the UN Secretariat in its most recent 3 
series--namely, those completed in 1984, 1986, and 1988. By and large, the most 
recent UN assessment projects that a larger proportion of the world population 
will be aged 60 and over in 2000 and 2025 than was previously estimated. Those 
changes in projections can be observed for the world and for the more developed 
countries as a whole, and for the regions of Africa, Latin America, Northern 
America, East Asia, Europe, and Oceania. While the recommendations of the 
International Conference on Population called attention to the importance of 
changes in population structure, this paper recommends urgent government action 
in planning social programs for the aged because of the greater eminence of 
population aging in many settings. The case of Japan is used to illustrate the 
growing importance of increases in life expectancy as a determinant of age 
structure changes (in relation to fertility decline), a point that is reinforced 
through a cruder decomposition of UN estimates and projections for several 
European countries.

PMID: 12282631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1987 Jun;21(1):24-44.

An introduction to multivariate life table analysis of birth intervals.

Khalifa M.

PIP: The availability through cross-sectional surveys of individual-level data 
on birth histories has led to a view of fertility as a sequential process in 
which the rate of transition from 1 parity to the next is determined by 
parity-specific factors. The contribution of factors such as age or 
contraceptive usage can be assessed more accurately by studying birth intervals; 
however, this approach is subject to the methodological problems of reporting 
errors and selectivity. To overcome these difficulties, demographers rely on 
multivariate life tables. In the hazard model, covariates are used to determine 
the likelihood that a woman exposed to the risk of having a birth of a given 
order will do so in a certain month after initiating the interval. The 2nd 
model, which considers time in its discrete rather than continuous form, uses a 
log linear model to describe the relationship between the proportion of women 
having a birth within a specific duration segment and the woman's 
characteristics. The choice of life table method depends both on the type of 
available data and the availability of suitable computer software. Although this 
paper focuses on the application of life table analysis to birth intervals, this 
approach is generalizable to the study of contraceptive efficacy, infant 
mortality, marriage dissolution, and other demographic phenomena.

PMID: 12282700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Renkou Yanjiu. 1987;(3):30-7.

[[Method of forming a multiple attrition life table and its application to the 
study of nuptiality among women in China]].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng Y.

PIP: Trends in marital status among women in China for the period 1950-1970 and 
for 1981 are analyzed using the multiple decrement life table method. The 
results confirm those obtained with traditional methods of data analysis. It is 
found that over the past 30 years, Chinese women have experienced a high rate of 
marriage and a low divorce rate. The significant increase in age at marriage and 
the lowering of the death rate have affected marital status at all ages. The 
development of a marital status life table permits the author to estimate 
current numbers of women in the four marital statuses of unmarried, currently 
married, widowed, and divorced by age and their future likelihood of changing 
marital status.

PMID: 12282755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Popul Res. 1989 Mar;6(1):1-14.

Levels, trends and patterns of adult mortality in China over twenty five years.

Brass W, Li B.

PIP: This paper investigates the reliability of the adult mortality estimates 
arrived at previously for China through the use of further data and methods. The 
most straightforward and direct approach is through the examination of 
survivorship from the 1964 to 1982 censuses, which has already been done 
effectively. The long time span limits the extent to which the trends can be 
verified as opposed to the average level of mortality in the interval. The 
technique applied in this paper is the original version of the growth-balance 
method but with adjustments developed particularly for China. The growth-balance 
method, with adjustments when necessary, has been applied to various age 
specific mortality schedules, calculated from registered deaths in China. No 
separation by sex is made. The growth-balance was also applied to the 
age-specific mortality schedule and risk exposure which were the basis of the 
1978 life table, which shows distinct features. In view of the tentative nature 
of the model and the lack of precision of the adjustment factors, the agreement 
between the pairs of life tables is remarkable close. The model mortality is 
higher than the intercensal measures at 15 to 45 years but lower at the ages 
above 45. There is sufficient evidence to construct a China standard life table, 
which could be done in several ways, such as by reference to the UN model 
patterns or by specifying fixed values in the 4 parameter generalizations of the 
logit system.

PMID: 12282801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Jeune Afr. 1989 Dec 11;(1510):68.

[AIDS: the economy a victim of the epidemic].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: A recent World Bank report on development prospects in sub-Saharan Africa 
over the next decade contained analyses based on projected rapid population 
growth which failed to take into account the mortality and morbidity of AIDS. 
Since 1960 the annual rate of population growth for the sub-Saharan African 
population has increased from 2.5%-3.23%. The number of inhabitants has doubled 
since 1965 and may double again to 1 million by the year 2010. The World Bank 
recommended classic and relatively inexpensive measures to meet the challenge of 
population growth. The governments concerned should devote .8% of their gross 
national products to family planning programs and manpower training. The spread 
of AIDS however is likely to reduce population growth. 2 specialists concluded 
for example that demographic growth in Uganda will decline from 3.25% to -2.4% 
annually by 2020, with average life expectancy declining from 52 to 24 years. 
The figures must be interpreted cautiously because their statistical basis is 
imprecise. World Health Organization figures published in June 1989 showed only 
24,886 of the 157,191 reported cases of AIDS as occurring in Africa. But in 
urban zones of some parts of Africa from 20-30% of the sexually active 
population is estimated to be infected. Some experts predict that during the 
1990s AIDS will kill 300,000-1.5 million Africans. The World Bank report 
scarcely mentions AIDS. Although AIDS has fewer victims than dysentery, malaria, 
or tuberculosis, its economic impact is greater because it strikes the working 
age population. Policies to control HIV infections and AIDS run the risk of 
reducing funds available for economic investment. Increasing expenditures on 
medical treatment and hospitalization in household as well as government budgets 
will be made to the detriment of other priorities. Policies to prevent AIDS must 
be put into place so that this economic disaster can be averted. Information and 
distribution of condoms have become longterm investments in the economic future 
of sub-Saharan Africa.

PMID: 12282835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Popul Econ. 1989;1(4):269-84. doi: 10.1007/BF00166068.

Intergenerational transfers in industrialised countries: effects of age 
distribution and economic institutions.

Ermisch J.

PIP: In Great Britain, using mid 1980s data and assuming no productivity 
increase over generations thereby making the discount rate and population growth 
rate 0, the average ages of household consumption and production stood at 46.3 
and 41.3 respectively. Further, assuming 2% annual productivity growth and 
discount rates, the average consumption age was 41.7 and the average production 
age was 38.7. Therefore, net transfers here passed from the younger to older 
generations. In Japan, 1985 data shows that, under the same assumptions as Great 
Britain, the average ages of household consumption and production stood at 50.8 
and 44.3 respectively. When assuming 2% annual productivity growth and discount 
rates, Japan's average consumption age was 41.7 and it's average production age 
was 38.7. Like Great Britain, Japan's net transfers passed from the younger to 
older generations. Specifically, production was significantly higher than 
consumption in the 20-60 year old age group and the reverse occurred in the 
older age groups. Even though there were similar patterns between the 2 
countries, the difference between the average ages of consumption and production 
for Japan is much larger than for Great Britain. Further, it is even greater 
than the United States' whose estimates correspond to Japan's and Great 
Britain's. Specifically, the strength of the transfer effect is higher for Japan 
than Great Britain or the US because of the longer life expectancy among the 
Japanese. In addition, due to changes in fertility and mortality, the proportion 
of the 15 year olds has decreased and the proportion of those or = 65 years old 
has increased. Therefore net transfers have shifted in favor of the older 
generations.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00166068
PMID: 12282852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Shengzhi Yu Biyun. 1989 Nov;9(4):39-43.

[Morrhuic acid vaginal contraceptive suppository].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie WY.

PIP: Sodium morrhuate started to be used as spermicide in 1982. A follow-up 
study was conducted in China in 1984 to investigate its effectiveness. Several 
different tests was conducted using sodium morrhuate solutions of 0.5, 0.25 and 
0.123 concentration on semen samples. Ames tests, born marrow chromosome tests, 
deformation tests, and local toxicological tests were conducted on rats, and 
rabbits. In addition a post coital and a two-stage clinical study were conducted 
on humans. 34 women was recruited for the first stage of the study in November 
1984; 1746 women aged 20-40, including 1581 parous and 165 newly-married women, 
were recruited from the second stage clinical study. Semen tests found that a 
solution of 0.25% concentration could immobilize sperm instantaneously. No 
deformation or toxic effect was found, and no abnormality was found in post 
coital tests. The sperm immobilization was statistically significant between the 
cases and the placebo group, and sperm immobilization was most effective with 20 
mg/pill concentration in post-coital tests. Among those who participated in the 
clinical study, 16073 months of use were observed. The 12 months cumulative 
method failure rate calculated using the life table method was 4.8% and the use 
failure rate was 10.1%. The discontinuation rate was 27.3%. The major cause of 
failure was inconsistent and incorrect use of method. The effectiveness of 
sodium morrhuate as a spermicide was not significantly different from Neo 
Sampoon, but it has a higher effectiveness than the contraceptive sponge or the 
stainless steel single ring which is commonly used in China. Gynecological 
examination was conducted every 6 months for 2 years on the women who 
participated in the study. No negative reaction was found in the examinations. 
It is recommended that this method be used by women of all ages, especially 
breast-feeding women who can not use other methods of contraception.

PMID: 12283011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1990 Jan;45(4):17-29.

[Increases in the life expectancy and retirement ages].

[Article in Japanese]

Hanada K.

PIP: Proposals for changing the definition of old age to reflect increases in 
life expectancy are reviewed. The author then focuses on how this would affect 
changes in retirement age and old-age pensions in Japan. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12283051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1989 Oct;45(3):41-55.

[Marital status life tables with five states for Japanese population].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: Life tables are presented by marital status for five states in Japan for 
the period 1980-1985.

PMID: 12283060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Maandstat Bevolking. 1990 Jun;38(6):14-24.

Demographic review of the Netherlands 1989.

Prins CJ, Verhoef R.

PIP: Demographic data for the Netherlands for 1989 are presented. Included are 
data concerning population growth, demographic aging, marital fertility, 
illegitimate births, mortality, life expectancy, marriage, divorce, consensual 
union, and internal and international migration patterns.

PMID: 12283065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Popul Econ. 1988;1(1):33-55. doi: 10.1007/BF00171509.

Age structure and income distribution policy.

Von Weizsacker RK.

The dependence of earnings on age is a firmly established empirical fact. A 
simple microeconomic model of educational choice, being consistent with this 
observation, is designed. The model lends itself readily to aggregation over 
individuals and age groups. Thus, relations can be set up between economic 
variables influencing the aggregate distribution of labor incomes and 
demographic variables determining the age structure of the population. The main 
results of the present study are: 1) overall earnings inequality is shown to be 
an increasing function of life expectancy and a decreasing function of 
fertility. 2) The effectiveness of redistributive policies is sensitive to the 
age composition. In particular, the inequality-reducing effect of a 1% income 
tax rise is shown to be smaller the older the population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00171509
PMID: 12283092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Ser Geogr. 1987;(3):35-45.

[Geographical aspects of life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Shkol'nikov VM.

PIP: The author discusses the research methodology used to investigate regional 
variations in life expectancy. Several methods for the analysis of the 
correlation between life expectancy and various socioeconomic and environmental 
factors are described.

PMID: 12283144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Genus. 1989 Jul-Dec;45(3-4):125-41.

[Some problems in the use of the new U.N. model life tables].

[Article in French]

Yaakoubd A.

"After a brief introduction to new United Nations model life tables for 
developing countries, we have proceeded to point out some blanks contained in 
them....[A theoretical] approach has allowed us to demonstrate the inadequacy of 
some fundamental assumptions on which the methods used are based. [An empirical 
approach] has enabled us to point out some of the problems that may be 
encountered when using the tables." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12283191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Estud Demogr Urbanos Col Mex. 1990 Jan-Apr;5(1):149-78, 213.

[Gains in life expectancy by sex and age in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Mina Valdes A.

"This work estimates the gains in life expectancy, or average years a person 
lives, at a national level [in Mexico] during the 1950-1980 period by sex and 
age of the population structure, referring as well to the changes undergone in 
such gains. An exhaustive presentation of the Pollard method is made in order to 
enable us to appreciate the advantages and limitations of the methodology used 
to quantify the gains in life expectancy. It also shows, graphically, the 
differences by sex and age from which the gain distributions are derived." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12283212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1990 May;(13):37-49.

[A Bayesian approach to life table construction for small areas].

[Article in Japanese]

Fukawa T, Shimizu T.

PIP: The authors utilize a specific statistical method for constructing life 
tables for municipal areas of Japan. Estimates of life expectancy by age, sex, 
and geographic location for the period 1983-1987 are presented. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12283327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Stud Comp Int Dev. 1990 Summer;25(2):60-90. doi: 10.1007/BF02687166.

Cross-national models of fertility, family planning, and development: testing 
for reciprocal effects.

Menard S.

Cross-national models of fertility, family planning, and development commonly 
assume that there are no reciprocal effect between fertility and other variables 
in the model and that when path models are used, there are no reciprocal or 
nonrecursive effects among any set of variables in the model. The present study 
tests for nonrecursiveness using 2-wave panel data, and finds that nonrecursive 
effects are present among variables commonly used in model of fertility, family 
planning, and development. In addition, the pattern of relationships found has 
implications for the explanation of the relationship between mortality and 
fertility in demographic transition theory.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02687166
PMID: 12283372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Pak Dev Rev. 1988 Winter;27(4 Pt 2):635-42.

Some differentials in infant and child mortality risks in Pakistan 1962 - 1986.

Afzal M, Raja TA, Mohammad A.

PIP: This paper draws upon a group of demographic surveys to provide direct and 
indirect estimates of infant and child mortality risks in Pakistan for the 
period 1962-1986. Differentials and trends in the estimates are subsequently 
explored. The 1962-65 Population Growth Estimation (PGE), the 1968-71 and 
1976-79 Population Growth Surveys (PGS), the 1984-86 Pakistan Demographic 
Surveys, the 1975 Pakistan Fertility Surveys (PFS), the 1979-80 Population, 
Labor Force and Migration Survey (PLM), and the 1984-85 Pakistan Contraceptive 
Prevalence Survey were the sources used for the study. Results indicate that 
infant and child mortality rates are declining, with male-female differentials 
in child mortality risks also growing less marked. Both of these observations 
were more pronounced in urban areas. The importance of both mothers' education 
and improved rural living conditions in reducing the risk of child mortality is 
stressed in the paper.

PMID: 12283408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Pak Dev Rev. 1988 Winter;27(4 Pt 2):645-51.

Gains in life expectancy by elimination of specified causes of death in 
Pakistan.

Ali SM, Nasir ZM.

PIP: An analysis of data drawn from the 1984 Pakistan Demographic Survey reveals 
a mortality pattern dominated by children's diseases, water-borne illnesses, and 
infections and parasitic diseases. 12 life tables were constructed to estimate 
gains in life expectancy at birth that would result from the elimination of 
specific causes of death. According to this analysis, 3.88 years would be added 
to life expectancy at birth if malaria were eliminated. Further gains would 
result from the elimination of tuberculosis (2.72 years), children's diseases 
(2.35 years), water-borne diseases (1.91 years), other infective and parasitic 
diseases (1.83 years), and circulatory diseases (1.29 years). On the other hand, 
elimination of accidental deaths and neoplasms would extend life expectancy by 
only 0.84 and 0.42 years, respectively. The Pakistan pattern is in direct 
contrast to that found in developed countries such as the US, where elimination 
of cardiovascular diseases would increase life expectancy by 13 years for males 
and 17 years for females. In high-mortality developing societies such as 
Pakistan, innumerable deaths could be prevented by public health measure such as 
universal child immunization and environmental steps such as better sewerage and 
an increased supply of potable water.

PMID: 12283409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Rev Bras Estat. 1989 Jan-Jun;50(193):101-20.

[An application of the Gompertz function to the analysis and projection of 
households by size class].

[Article in Portuguese]

Neupert RF.

A technique for representing the distribution of households by size class using 
the Gompertz function is introduced. "By extension, it may also be used to 
disaggregate, by size class, an available projection of the total number of 
households. The technique does not consider directly the dynamic aspects of the 
family life cycle, however, it has a methodological advantage: it makes use of 
information usually available in most census publications." The technique is 
illustrated using international data and data from the Brazilian censuses of 
1960, 1970, and 1980. "Finally, the function is used to disaggregate, by size 
class, a recent projection of households for Brazil. The analyses show that, in 
fact, the Gompertz function is a consistent model to disaggregate the total 
number of households by size class. The methods may be useful as a base to 
develop models to estimate future housing needs according to the size of the 
dwellings." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12283590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Popul Today. 1991 Jan;19(1):5, 10.

Ethiopia: fertility up in early 1980s.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The total fertility rate in Ethiopia increased from 5.6 to 7.7 between 
1965-70 and 1980--81. However, the population increase is not evident due to the 
low life expectancy at birth and the highest infant rate mortality in the world. 
The study reported was based on the 1980-81 Ethiopian Demographic Survey and the 
1964-71 National Survey Sample. Indirect methods (Brass and Arriaga) were used 
to estimate levels of fertility, due to reporting errors including 15-19 year 
olds reporting 10 children and older women reporting 30 or more. In the first 
instance there were probably coding errors in the columns, and in the second, 
grandchildren are considered by some women to be their children. The fertility 
increase does not follow the typical pattern of African countries with low 
fertility in the 1940's and high in the 1960's. The rise in Ethiopian fertility 
is reflective of improvements in food and healthy delivery which reduces 
infertility, and less breastfeeding which may inhibit conception. Since the 
urban population constitutes only 11% of the total population, the reduction of 
number of children per woman from 5 to 4 does not represent the dominant trend.

PMID: 12283601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Plan Parent Eur. 1990 Dec;19(3):10-2.

Youth programmes in Mexico.

Rodriguez De Macias G.

PIP: Research indicates that in-school adolescents in Mexico have their first 
sexual contact at the average age of 15.5 years. In 50% of cases, such contact 
is with a boyfriend or girlfriend, 28.1% with a fiance, and 18.3% with a 
prostitute. First sexual intercourse occurs with a spouse in only 1.3% of cases. 
Since only one in six young people in Mexico use a form of contraception, many 
unwanted pregnancies outside of marriage result. 450,000 births in 1989 were to 
mothers below 20 years old, with 15% of births annually being among teenage 
mothers. An estimated three million abortions occur annually in Mexico, and 
abortions are the fifth major cause of death at the national level. Teen 
pregnancy is decisively linked with poor living conditions and life expectancy, 
a relatively lower level of education, and rural residence. As for psychological 
and anthropological variables, most teens who become pregnant belong to large, 
unstable families with poor family communication, and are characterized as 
submissive, highly dependent, and of low self-esteem. Targeting students, 
workers, and other youths, the MEXFAM Youth Program selects and trains program 
coordinators over age 21 and volunteer promoters of both sexes aged 16-20 in 
urban/marginal communities. Promoters offer information to their peers and other 
youths in their local communities, distribute barrier contraceptives, and 
channel medical, psychological, and legal services to young people in need. 
Program procedure is described.

PMID: 12283766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Popul Bull UN. 1991;(30):1-22.

The use of new model life tables at very low mortality in population 
projections.

Coale A, Guo G.

"New model life tables have been calculated...modifying the regional model life 
tables by Coale, Demeny and Vaughan published in 1983.... The purpose of the 
present article is not to repeat the description of the construction of the 
tables but to provide a systematic procedure for their use in projecting 
mortality into the future in low-mortality populations. The new model life 
tables incorporate age patterns of mortality that conform quite closely to the 
patterns in the lowest mortality populations yet on record and present 
extrapolated schedules that include systematic extensions of recent changes in 
age-specific mortality rates."

excerpt

PMID: 12283810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1991 Jan;46(4):86-95.

[[Occupational differences in life expectancy: 1989]].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Differential mortality by occupation and sex is analyzed for Japan for the 
year 1989 using official data. The results show that the employed live longer 
than those without regular occupations.

PMID: 12283828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Tiers Monde. 1991 Jan-Mar;32(125):159-73.

[African population growth: status and prospects].

[Article in French]

Tabutin D.

PIP: Despite great improvements over the past several years, the quality of 
demographic data in Africa is still a problem, and Africa remains the least well 
known continent. Population growth is extremely rapid, with all countries 
growing at annual rates of over 3%. The natural increase rate even shows some 
signs of increasing slightly in the next decade or so. Africa's population was 
estimated at 220 million in 1950, 650 million at present, and is projected at 
1.5 billion by 2025. Africans represented 9% of the world population in 1960, 
but will increase to 19% around 2025. The rapid population growth is the result 
of declining mortality since the 1950s unmatched by changes in fertility. There 
are significant socioeconomic and rural-urban mortality differentials in Africa, 
but as yet only highly educated urbanites have measurably reduced their family 
size. 2 consequences of this rapid growth are the youth of the population, with 
almost 50% under 20 years, and its high density in some areas. By 2025, 18 
countries will have densities of over 100 persons per sq km. Almost everywhere 
in Africa, family sizes are at least 6 children/woman. 3 factors explaining this 
high level of fertility are the earliness and universality of marriage, rates of 
contraceptive usage of only 4-10% in most countries, and declining durations of 
breast feeding and sexual abstinence, which traditionally served as brakes on 
fertility. As a rule, women marry young and remain married until the end of 
their reproductive years. Divorce and widowhood are common, but remarriage is 
usually rapid if the woman is still of reproductive age. Life expectancy at 
birth in sub-Saharan Africa has increased from some 36 years around 1950 to 50 
years at present. Progress in control of mortality, and especially infant 
mortality, has been slower than expected, and Africa still has by far the lowest 
life expectancy of any major region. Regional, rural-urban, and socioeconomic 
mortality differentials are considerable and sometimes increasing. In some 
countries the gaps in life expectancy between rural and urban residents or 
between social classes are as high as 15 or 20 years. The major causes of death 
have scarcely changed in 2 or 3 decades: diarrhea, measles, acute respiratory 
infections, tetanus, malaria, all aggravated by malnutrition and the new scourge 
of AIDS. Migration and urbanization remain major components of family survival 
strategies. The increasing pace of urbanization has brought a decline in urban 
living standards. About half of the world's refugees and displaced persons are 
in Africa. It was not its demography that brought Africa to its current position 
of underdevelopment, but population will exercise enormous pressure on available 
resources. Already for the continents as a whole, food production is increasing 
less rapidly than population. The challenges are immense: from now until 2000, 
the working age population will increase by 49% and the school age population 
(6-11 years) by 58%.

PMID: 12283847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Asia Pac Pop Policy. 1991 Mar;(16):1-4.

Economic development and fertility decline: lessons from Asia's newly 
industrialized countries.

Robey B.

PIP: The general thesis that economic development and fertility decline are 
interrelated is substantiated in literature that discusses the successes of the 
newly industrialized countries of Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. When 
countries are developing rapidly, family planning accelerates the rate of 
fertility change, particularly among the poor uneducated rural population. 
Relying on economic and social development is not enough. National policy in 
Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, and Taiwan recognized that population growth drains 
resources and the family planning programs operating since the 1960s contributed 
to a drop from 5 children/woman to 2 by 1988, and 70% of married couples used 
contraception. Coupled with this, age at marriage rose, contraception became 
more available, and educational and employment opportunities increased. 
Economically, the growth rate in the 1980's was 6-10% annually, with growth in 
the manufacturing and service sectors and export trade. Close economic ties 
evolved between governments and private sectors. Social development programs had 
been fully funded and gains evident in education, living standards, health care 
and nutrition, and life expectancy. The success of family planning is attributed 
to encouraging contraceptive awareness and use. Fertility reduction may occur 
with social and economic development, but no developing countries have reduced 
fertility without family planning. The relative importance of family planning 
may change over time, and reducing the cost through government sponsored family 
planning programs and encouraging the acceptability of contraceptive usage.

PMID: 12283895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Sociol Perspect. 1990 Winter;33(4):429-45.

Gender differentials in poverty-mortality well-being.

Sakamoto A.

"This paper explores the application of a life table approach to the analysis of 
poverty [in the United States]. After reviewing trends in gender differentials 
in poverty and mortality, we investigate an indicator of poverty-mortality 
well-being. The rationale for this approach is that to some extent poverty and 
mortality are causally interrelated phenomena which are both fundamental to 
well-being. The empirical results indicate that females are expected to live 
more years in poverty than are males, but females are expected to live more 
years in nonpoverty as well. Although the gender differential in poverty rates 
has increased to the disadvantage of females, and although most of the greater 
poverty of females cannot be attributed to their greater longevity, the gender 
differential in poverty-mortality well-being has nonetheless not deteriorated to 
the disadvantage of women in recent decades."

excerpt

PMID: 12283943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1991 Apr;47(1):17-26.

[[An analysis of life course patterns in Japan: the effects of mortality and 
nuptiality changes between 1965 and 1985]].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

"In this study, we examined the impact on the marital life course patterns [of] 
mortality and nuptiality changes.... We have constructed the marital-state life 
table for the [years] 1965 and 1985 based on Japanese data. By using the 
marital-state life table, we examined the sensitivity of the mortality and 
nuptiality changes on life course patterns." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12284110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Chin J Popul Sci. 1989;1(2):181-97.

A study of the pattern of deaths by diseases in major Chinese cities.

Rao K, Zhou Y.

"In research in recent years, the co-authors of this article have discovered 
that changes in PDD [patterns of disease and death] in urban and rural areas [in 
China] follow to a large degree an identical pattern except for a difference in 
the timing of these changes (approximately 5 to 10 years). This study is based 
on statistics obtained in 14 cities with a population of more than one million, 
complete registration systems and higher data reliability. It is intended to 
ascertain how the pattern of deaths by diseases changes, and to predict the 
tendency of such changes through dynamic research on such patterns in those 
cities." The authors analyze changes in specific causes of death and their 
impact on life expectancy in China.

excerpt

PMID: 12284122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Maandstat Bevolking. 1991 Jun;39(6):15-26.

[Cohort life tables for the Netherlands by age and sex derived from observations 
during the period 1860-1989].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: Cohort life tables for the Netherlands based on data from the period 
1860-1989 are presented. Consideration is given to trends in age-specific 
mortality, comparisons of life expectancy in successive cohorts at different 
ages, and improvements in infant and child mortality. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12284134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Eur J Popul. 1991 Apr;7(1):1-28. doi: 10.1007/BF01796614.

Mortality in the two Germanies in 1986 and trends 1976-1986.

Hohn C, Pollard J.

"Mortality data of the Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR [German 
Democratic Republic] are compared by age, sex and cause of death....Within the 
period from 1976 to 1986 life expectancy has risen in the Federal Republic of 
Germany, whereas in the GDR it increased to a minor extent only, so that the gap 
between the two parts of Germany has clearly enlarged. This enlarged gap in life 
expectancy largely depends on a higher mortality in the GDR due to diseases of 
the circular system and the respiratory organs, external influences and 'other' 
causes of death. The last-mentioned two groups also 'contain' the normally 
[separately] reported causes of death 'cirrhosis of the liver', 'suicide', 
'accidents', and some diseases of the digestive system." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796614
PMID: 12284162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Econ Stat. 1991 May;(243):61-8, 111, 113.

[Adapting to a shortage of labor beyond the year 2000].

[Article in French]

Blanchet D, Marchand O.

PIP: Future labor force trends in France are reviewed. The impact of these 
trends on the current disequilibrium between job supply and demand is assessed. 
Factors considered include increases in immigration, extension of working life, 
female employment, and increased productivity. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

PMID: 12284166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Estud Econ. 1989 Nov;16(2):193-222.

[The construction of life profiles by social class in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Torres C.

PIP: The author develops a series of life profiles for men and women living in 
the Greater Santiago area of Chile over the past 25 years. These profiles, which 
are based on the concept of life expectancy at birth, illustrate the length of 
time individuals take to go through such life cycle stages as education, 
employment, unemployment, and retirement. The concept is used to analyze changes 
in the life profile over time and how these differ by class. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12284187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Popul Sci. 1990 Jul;9:63-8.

Maternal mortality in the Islamic countries of the Eastern Mediterranean Region 
of WHO.

El-haffez G.

PIP: Maternal mortality in Islamic countries is high. Some reasons for high 
maternal mortality here include low average age of marriage, illiteracy, lack of 
prenatal care, and obstetric complications. In at least 3 Islamic countries it 
stands 50/10,000, but ranges from 20-49 in most Islamic countries. These figures 
are based on only a few studies in hospitals, however. In fact, 70-90% of 
deliveries do not take place in hospitals, particularly in rural areas. 
Moreover, traditional birth attendants (TBAs) deliver most infants. In addition, 
poor health information systems exist. WHO's Regional Office of the Eastern 
Mediterranean promotes maternal health projects designed to reduce maternal 
mortality. Specifically, it supports scientific inquiries into maternal deaths 
which can include talking to husbands about wives' deaths or having TBAs record 
infant and maternal events. WHO promotes self care by having mothers complete 
record cards. These cards are used in Yemen, Egypt, Pakistan, Syria, and 
Somalia. It also encourages maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) 
programs to adopt a risk approach to expedite early referral care of high risk 
pregnant females. In fact, WHO sponsors workshops on risk approach in MCH/FP for 
physicians. It also fosters improvement of managerial and technical skills. WHO 
collaborates with medical, nursing, and paramedical schools in curriculum 
development for training students in MCH/FP. Similarly, it provides training for 
practicing obstetricians. Further, it promotes training of TBAs. WHO encourages 
each country to monitor and evaluate MCH/FP activities, to conduct health system 
research, and address unmet needs in maternal care. In conclusion, education is 
needed to dispel harmful traditional practices and countries should increase the 
role of the media to inform the public.

PMID: 12284319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Maandstat Bevolking. 1991 Jul;(7):14-29.

[Demographic review of the Netherlands, 1990].

[Article in Dutch]

Prins CJ, Verhoef R.

PIP: Demographic data for the 15 million inhabitants of the Netherlands in 1990 
are presented. Statistics on population growth, age distribution, fertility, 
foreign and native-born residents, mortality, life expectancy, marriage, 
divorce, and internal and international migration are included. Current trends 
indicate that the population will peak at or near 16 million inhabitants in the 
year 2001. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12284346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Maandstat Bevolking. 1991 Jul;(7):30-9.

[Population forecasts for the Netherlands during the 1980s: how far were they 
wrong?].

[Article in Dutch]

Cruijsen H, Zakee R.

An evaluation of the accuracy of the seven national population forecasts 
produced by the Netherlands Central Bureau of Statistics during the 1980s is 
presented. "Compared with the eight national forecasts made in the preceding 
three decades those of the 1980s were more successful. The number of live births 
in particular was forecasted better in the last decade. Regarding fertility of 
subsequent generations of women it was rightly assumed that: the numbers of 
children would decrease, [and] the ages at which women have their children would 
increase. Other assumptions made during the 1980s that turned out to be right 
were: increasing life expectancy at birth with a stable difference of about 6.5 
years between the expectations for men and those for women, [and] continuing net 
immigration into the Netherlands." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12284347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Asia Pac Popul J. 1991 Jun;6(2):21-54.

Population projections for Myanmar, 1983-2013.

Win Tint.

PIP: A researcher used 1973 and 1983 census data to examine various demographic 
factors which affect population growth, to forecast the future size of the 
population, and to examine socioeconomic effects of rapid population growth on 
Myanmar. The researcher had to adjust 1983 data since remote rural areas were 
not included in the census. Since data quality was flawed, indirect estimation 
techniques were used to estimate fertility, mortality, and life expectancy at 
birth. The researcher used the UN general assumption model to make 9 populations 
projections. The medium variant showed that the population would increase from 
35,442,972-64,504,980 between 1983-2013 at an annual rate of 2.02%. For the low 
and medium variants, the percentage of the population 15 years old would fall 
from 38.75% to 28.84% and 29.53% respectively between 1983-2013. The low variant 
projection showed an increase to 40.95%. The dependency ratio was highest in 
1973 (.87), but fell to .82 by 1983. The low and high variant projections showed 
the dependency ratios to remain high until 1998, then they would steadily fall 
to .56 and .58 by 2013. The high variant projection revealed a slight rise 
throughout the 30 year period with the dependency ratio peaking in 2003. Rapid 
population growth in Myanmar reduced the availability of land. Between 1974 and 
1990, sown area under various crops increased only 8% while population grew 22%. 
In terms of health, Myanmar would need an increased number of physicians and 
nurses at all variants in 2013 if the ratio of health personnel to population 
could be held constant (2.2 and 1.6 respectively). At the high variant, the 
numbers would need to more than double (8381-17,739 and 5335-12,974 
respectively) to at least maintain 1983 services. The number of teachers who be 
needed in 2013 would also need to increase more than 2 times the 1983 number at 
the high variant projection if the ratio of teachers to students could be held 
at 1:39 (134, 116-341, 367). Therefore Myanmar needs family planning to effect 
socioeconomic development.

PMID: 12284415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Naselenie. 1990;8(1):84-92.

[Influence of the age-specific death rate on average life expectancy in 
Bulgaria, 1900-1980].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Rusev B.

PIP: The author develops a model for assessing the effect of changes in the 
age-specific death rate on life expectancy. The model is illustrated using data 
for Bulgaria for the period 1900-1980. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12284443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Can Geogr. 1991 Spring;35(1):23-36. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0064.1991.tb01618.x.

Population analysis on the microcomputer: a system of software packages.

Field NC.

"This paper describes a system of versatile software packages that has been 
developed by the author for population analysis on IBM-compatible microcomputers 
using PC or MS DOS. The series includes programs for the production of life 
tables, the analysis of spatial patterns and temporal trends in mortality, 
population projections, stationary-state population simulations and demographic 
planning, cohort survival estimates of net migration, and the analysis of 
migration matrices. Each of the programs in the series is discussed in terms of 
its principal analytical features, associated conceptual and methodological 
issues, and potential applications. The programs are intended for use both as 
basic research and planning tools and as instructional aids in 
university-level-courses. The programs and related documentation are available 
on a set of four 360K diskettes." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-0064.1991.tb01618.x
PMID: 12284629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1991 Oct;47(3):3-27.

[[Demographic analysis of the first marriage process]].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaneko R.

PIP: The author analyzes the stages leading to first marriage in Japan, using 
data concerning the period 1905-1955 to illustrate probability models and life 
table methods. Factors taken into consideration include type of marriage (choice 
or arranged), heterogeneity, and waiting times. A trend in marriage postponement 
at the outbreak of World War II and a decline in marriage age in the postwar 
