period are noted. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12284631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Popul Today. 1991 Jul-Aug;19(7-8):12.

Spotlight: Myanmar (Burma).

May JF.

PIP: Myanmar, formerly Burma until May 1989, is among the least known countries 
in Southeast Asia. Its estimated population was 41 million in 1990 and its land 
area is 261,228 square miles. this yields a population density of 157/square 
miles, which is very low for the region. (It borders China and India) Its birth 
rate is 32/1000, its death rate is 12/1000, its rate of natural increase is 2% 
annually and its total fertility rate is 3.9. Infant mortality is 68/1000, its 
life expectancy is 60 years and its per capita GNP is US$200 annually. Previous 
governments had advocated a pronatalist policy, but the current government 
realizes the problems associated with rapid population growth. The concepts of 
birth spacing and contraception are key parts of this new strategy. The societal 
attitude towards birth spacing and female sterilization are positive but the 
contraceptive prevalence rate among married women of reproductive age is 
estimated at only 20-25%. The results of a 1991 national fertility study are 
currently being processed. Their results will provide new information about the 
fertility patterns of the people in Myanmar.

PMID: 12284644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Popul Today. 1992 Jan;20(1):6-8.

Estimating the upper limits to human longevity.

Olshansky SJ.

PIP: A review of methods for estimating the average human life span is first 
presented. The author then considers the prospects for increasing the life span 
and the consequences of greater longevity for health and health services. Data 
are primarily for the United States.

PMID: 12284726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Profamilia. 1991 Dec;7(18):15-6.

[Sociodemographic indicators of the Andean Pact countries].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Andean Pact, also known as the Cartagena Accord, was signed on May 26, 
1969, with the goal of promoting the socioeconomic integration of the countries 
of the subregion (Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia). 1992 marked 
a new stage in the Andean Pact by the consolidation of the integration process 
with the establishment of the Andean Free Trade Zone, allowing the uninhibited 
flow of goods. The subregion's population was 91.8 million in 1990, the most 
populous being Colombia with 32.9 million people. 71.5% of the total population 
(65 million people) live in cities with a high level of urban growth. During the 
period of 1990-95 the average rate of population growth was the highest in 
Bolivia with 2.8% and the lowest in Colombia with 1.95%. By comparison, the rate 
of growth was 0.2% in western Europe and 0.7% in the US. According to 
projections of the UN, approximately 113 million people will be living in the 
subregion in the year 2000. The indices of life expectancy and infant mortality 
have improved in recent decades; however, they are still poor compared to those 
of developed countries. The highest rate of infant mortality was registered in 
Bolivia with 93/1000 live births, followed by Peru with 76/1000, Ecuador with 
53/1000, Colombia with 37/1000, and Venezuela with 33/1000 live births. The 
average rate of European countries is 7/1000 live births. Life expectancy 
increased from an average of 50 years in 1950 to 65.4 years in 1990. In 1990, 
average life expectancy was 76 years in the US, indicating that there are 
significant differences in medical care and social security between the 
countries of the region and developed countries.

PMID: 12284746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Chin J Popul Sci. 1990;2(2):147-54.

A study on the trend of demographic aging in Zhejiang province.

Liu C.

PIP: Using data from the 1987 sampling survey of one percent of the population 
of China, the author examines trends in demographic aging in Zhejiang province. 
The proportion of adults and the elderly in the population has increased due to 
the one-child-per-family policy, and there has been an increase in the average 
life span and a migratory influx of 15-33-year-olds. The aging of the Zhejiang 
population is expected to accelerate. The author suggests approaches to meet the 
needs of the increased numbers of elderly residents.

PMID: 12284837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Chin J Popul Sci. 1990;2(3):187-99.

An analysis of changing trends in China's urban and rural households.

Zeng Y.

PIP: The changing trends in China's urban and rural households indicate by 1987 
that the proportion of nuclear families (68-9%) out of total households are the 
same for urban and rural areas. The age at marriage in rural areas is now 
approaching the urban age; i.e, 21.8 years for rural areas and 23.7 years for 
urban areas in 1986. There is a disparity of only 4 years in life expectancy 
between areas. The fertility rate (TFR) has remained since 1966 2 times that in 
urban areas (UAs); i.e., rural TFR is 2.7, townships 2.2, and cities 1.7 of 
which a certain proportion since 1982 include an agricultural population. The 
proportion of 3 or more generation families grew by 1/24% and nuclear families 
grew by .81%. The reasons are that the baby boomers are reflected in the 1987 
figures and not the 1982 figures and they remain living with their parents. In 
agricultural households, there is economic benefit to remaining within the 
family unit. Even though there has been a TFR rate drop in cities, the tendency 
for older parents to remain with their offspring has not changed in rural areas. 
In 1987 the proportion of 3 generation households was the same in 1987 in urban 
and rural areas. The traditional life table method is used to generate household 
composition by age and urban or rural status and marital status. When the 1981 
age specific marriage rate is used, the expected marriages 20 years is 20% or 
28% if the 1986 age specific rates are used. The actual 1987 figures were 24.5%. 
In urban areas, the 1986 expected rate was 12%, of whom the majority of early 
marriages are assumed to be among the suburban farmers. The life table reveals 
information also about parity and the number of surviving children. In 1986 for 
rural areas, the expected rate for 1 parity during a lifetime is 8%, 47% for 2, 
and 42% for 3 or more. In cities, the expectation is 61% for 1 parity, 24% for 
2, and 11% for 3 or more. Because of low expected parity in the cities, the 
number of childless elderly is expected to be a fairly high proportion. The 
length of time that women will have both a surviving older and younger 
generation is given as well as assumptions about the future household 
composition. The author concludes that late marriages and childbearing and 
increases in spacing of birth needs to be promoted in villages. Multiple births 
need to be prevented. Planned parenthood education and administrative work 
should continue vigorously. Restrictions need to be placed on illegal early 
marriage and policies promoted for delay in childbearing until 24-26 years, and 
child spacing of 5 years. Low fertility in the cities means greater female 
responsibility for care of young and old.

PMID: 12284984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Maandstat Bevolking. 1992 Apr;40(4):19-33.

[Period life tables for the Netherlands by age, sex, and province, 1986-1990].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: Regional differences in life expectancy and mortality are examined for the 
Netherlands for the period 1986-1990. Life table data are presented by province 
of birth, sex, and age. Increment-decrement life table techniques are used to 
incorporate migration between provinces into the analysis. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12285040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Popul Bull. 1991 Dec;46(4):1-39.

The challenge of world health.

Mosley WH, Cowley P.

PIP: 2 development specialists have expounded on the demands world health has 
placed on public health. Striking declines in infant and child mortality 
occurred with the advent of biomedical and technical interventions in developing 
countries after World War II. At the same time, these interventions promoted 
longer lives by curing and/or treating chronic diseases in developed countries. 
In the 1970s, however, it was apparent that the hospital based, curative 
approach could not meet health needs and was very costly. In developed 
countries, biomedical and social sciences showed that chronic diseases did not 
occur due to modernization but from unhealthy behaviors, diet, and lifestyle. In 
fact, in 1975, the US Centers for Disease Control announced that unhealthy 
lifestyles contributed to 50% of all deaths while the medical system was 
responsible for only 11%. The US and other developed countries then began to 
promote healthy lifestyles, and in the 1980s, considerable improvements in 
health occurred, especially among adults. Developing countries which depended on 
the Western medical model did not experience health gains in the 1970s. Yet 
developing countries where health systems concentrated on carrying essential 
services to all people and promoted basic hygiene and sound dietary practices 
continued to achieve considerable health gains. In 1978, WHO an UNICEF hosted 
the International Conference on Primary Health Care in Alma Ata, the Soviet 
Union to hold these developing countries with community based health systems as 
models of primary health care (PHC). The 1980s witnessed the spread of PHC 
especially in the form of child survival which focused on oral rehydration 
therapy and breast feeding. The biomedical and social sciences are needed to 
move this health policy and program strategy forward. Governments must see to 
policies that promote healthy people. Political will is needed to make human 
welfare a high priority.

PMID: 12285119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Popul Today. 1992 Feb;20(2):6-7.

New UN projections show uncertainty of future world.

Haub C.

PIP: The 1990 world population extensions, published by the United Nations 
Population Division, differ dramatically from the 1980 long-range projections 
and suggest reason for serious concern about future trends. In the 1980 
extensions, it was assumed that all countries would achieve replacement 
fertility. The 3 scenarios developed--high, middle, and low--resulted in a 
population estimate for the year 2150 that ranged from 10,139 to 28,025 billion. 
In contrast, the 1990 extensions show 7 divergent long-range scenarios that 
yield totals for 2150 ranging from 4,299 to 694,213 billion. The latter 
projection assumes no change in current population growth rates. the medium-high 
series, based on the assumption that fertility will settle on a value 5% above 
replacement level, yields an estimate of 20,772 billion for 2150; the medium-low 
series, which projects a fertility level 5% below replacement level, produces a 
population estimate of 5,633 billion. In both the 1980 and 1990 series, the 
medium estimate was based on achievement of replacement-level fertility on a 
schedule that varied region by region on the basis of current birth rates, 
population policies, and socioeconomic factors. This estimate for 2050 increased 
from 10,139 billion in 1980 to 11,543 billion in the 1990 series, due to upward 
revisions in life expectancy in the latter calculations. These projections are 
of great significance since they form the basis for food production, labor 
force, and other socioeconomic planning.

PMID: 12285186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Notas Poblacion. 1990 Aug;18(50):9-53.

[Estimations of maternal mortality using the sisterhood survival method: Latin 
American experience].

[Article in Spanish]

Wong LR, Simons H, Graham W, Schkolnik S.

PIP: The method of surviving sisters for indirectly estimating maternal 
mortality is still under development but shows promise for countries lacking 
alternative sources of data and good statistics. This work uses census or survey 
data to apply the method to rural villages in Gambia; Mapuche settlements in 
Cautin, Chile; marginal populations on the outskirts of Lima, Peru; and rural 
villages of Avaroa, Bolivia. The method is explained in detail following 
presentation of the results. The necessary basic information is outlined, and 
the particularities of its application to each Latin American case are 
discussed. The surviving sisters method was developed by Graham and Brass to 
derive indicators of maternal mortality based on the proportion of sisters who 
arrive at fertile age and die during pregnancy, delivery, or the postpartum 
period. The method transforms the proportions of sisters who died of maternal 
causes obtained from a census or survey into conventional probabilities of 
death. The basic information required concerns the numbers of sisters entering 
the reproductive period (excluding the respondent is she is a woman), the number 
surviving and decreased at the survey data, and the number who died during 
pregnancy, delivery, or the postpartum period. The probabilities of dying from a 
maternal cause were estimated on the basis of the sister survival method at 1/98 
in Lima, 1/53 in Cautin, 1/17 in Gambia, and 1/10 in Bolivia. These 
probabilities correspond to ratios of maternal mortality per 100,000 live births 
of 286 in Lima, 414 in Cautin, 1005 in Gambia, and 1379 in Bolivia. The results 
demonstrate great variability in maternal mortality rates. In the cases of Lima 
and Cautin there were significant differences between estimates derived from the 
sister survival method and those derived from vital statistics. The 4 cases 
demonstrated the familiar association between maternal and infant mortality, 
fertility, and overall female mortality expressed in life expectancy at birth. 
The more detailed presentation of the 3 Latin American cases stresses the need 
to formulate survey questions that will enable the population at risk to be 
correctly identified in each case. A minimum of 3 questions is usually required, 
and their formulation may vary depending in part on the importance of 
extramarital fertility.

PMID: 12285190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Etudes Mali. 1991;(44):57-64.

[Demographic and evolutionary dynamics of an isolate: the Dogon of Boni].

[Article in French]

Cazes MH.

PIP: The principal results are presented of demographic and genetic studies 
among the Dogon of the mountains of Boni. The Dogon of Boni are a culturally 
homogeneous population who have retained their own identity. Their villages were 
hidden in the rocks and thus protected from the recurring attacks and pillagings 
of passing nomadic tribes. The attacks ceased after several generation, and the 
Dogon have spread out beyond their original settlements. The dogon 1st inhabited 
the area in the early 18th century, arriving in successive waves from the Mande 
country. The topography of a plain intersected by mountains and plateaus has 
resulted in division of the Dogon population into isolates. The Dogon currently 
live in some 15 villages. They are sedentary and practice subsistence 
agriculture. The climate is Sahelian and life is difficult under the best of 
circumstances. The persistent aggravation of the drought since the 1970s has 
caused growing concern and may prompt the population to resettle elsewhere. 
Women have 7.2 live births on average, with very high fertility rates between 
20-40 years. High rates of remarriage and polygamy appear to increase fertility. 
The life expectancy at birth of 31-37 years depending on the year and the sex of 
the child is among the lowest in Mali. 40% or more of newborns die before the 
5th birthday. Some 18 years of life expectancy are added once the 5th birthday 
is passed. Except in years of crisis resulting from drought and famine, cholera 
epidemics, or measles which strikes virulently every 3 or 4 years, most deaths 
are caused by malaria and fever or diarrhea and intestinal parasites. A health 
center opened in 1979 in the largest town of Tabi may have had some affect on 
mortality despite its precarious functioning and lack of support. The average 
age at 1st marriage is 18.2 for women and 23.9 for men. Almost everyone marries 
and successive divorces and remarriages are common. Polygamy rates vary in the 
different mountain areas. Only about 4% of marriages are outside the ethnic 
group. 84% of unions occur between persons from the same massif. Marriages 
within the same lineage are not the rule. Although cousin marriages appear to be 
preferred, the complexity of kinship networks among individuals on the same 
massif means that after a few generations everyone is related. Genetic studies 
show that each massive has been relatively autonomous. Of the 51 original 
settlers, only 1 or 2 hundred are reflected in the genealogies of each massif. 
Demographic dynamics are conditioned by cultural norms concerning choice of 
spouse, by limited pools of available partners, and by the hostile physical 
environment which limits communications.

PMID: 12285297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Pak Dev Rev. 1991 Winter;30(4 Pt 2):649-65.

The six questions that do not go away.

Krotki KJ.

PIP: The Pakistani data system is assessed as having persisted with 6 problems 
over the past 40 years: unreliability of data on 1) the proportion 15 years of 
ages 2) the reported ages 5-9, 3) the masculinity ratio, 4) female illiteracy 
and innumeracy 5) the innocence of the vital registration system, and 6) the 
ineffectiveness of family planning programs. The proportion 15 has remained 
stable over 40 years (between 42-46%) but reflects high fertility. Low fertility 
would be expressed as a 15 population of 20%. There is the suggestion of an 
increase in this proportion; the explanation and speculation given refers to 
fertility increases rather than a mortality decline. A table is provided of 
various population figures for the 15 years and stable population growth rates 
and mortality and life expectancy data. The problem with the 5-9 age group is 
that it should be smaller than the age group 0-4 years and markedly larger than 
10-14 years. Census data for 4 periods shows ages 5-9 as larger than 0-4 years, 
and when it is smaller, it is only by a small fraction. The expected value of 
ages 0-4 is that it should be 20% larger than ages 5-9, when in fact Pakistani 
data for 0-4 years are larger by 4%. Hypothetical age pyramids are shown 
graphically with the expected peaks and peculiar proportions which would 
unrealistically describe Pakistan population. Data show a masculinity ratio of 
105 with high male preference, and higher female life expectancy between 
1881-1921, 1950-52, 1976-79; and by 1984-87 female age-specific death rates were 
comparable to male rates except for some maternal ages. Masculinity ratios are 
assembled in chart form for various census and surveys. Declines in the ratio 
appear in the most recent census for 0-4; there is a general declining trend 
over the years for all ages except the older ages which have remained stable. 
The variability in patterns is questioned. Female illiteracy increased by 80 
million between 1970-85. Points are made that illiteracy is difficult to define 
and programs to combat illiteracy must be different for adults and children. The 
question is who should be targeted. Vital registration needs 2 systems: a 
recording system and one for political and legal purposes, in order to insure 
reliability. Family planning is not a clearly defined national objective; 
western methods of fertility control are questionable effective with a 
culturally different population in Pakistan; and users are small considering 57% 
readiness figures. The 7th question is raised about the expected reliability of 
the 1991 census. Pakistan would benefit from improved methodology in the social 
sciences.

PMID: 12285304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Pak Dev Rev. 1991 Winter;30(4 Pt 2):669-76.

Changes in mortality in Pakistan 1960-88.

Sathar ZA.

PIP: General trends in Pakistan infant/child mortality, adult mortality, 
differentials in mortality, and prospects for future declines in mortality are 
presented. Future mortality declines are desired and recognized by government 
policy. Paucity of data and quality control issues cloud an accurate 
presentation of trends. The crude death rate (CDR) has nonetheless declined in 4 
decades form 40-50/1000 in 1900 to 10-12/1000 in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
The 1984-88 Pakistan Demographic Survey (PDS) reports a CDR of 10.8/1000. Life 
expectancy is expected to improve. The majority of deaths are infant/child 
related. Government policy aims to have 1 trained traditional birth 
attendant/village in order to improve maternal and child care. Although official 
statistics are in dispute, there is general agreement that infant mortality has 
declined particularly in neonatal mortality, i.e., infant mortality is now at 
56-62/1000 and neonatal mortality 48/1000 in 1988. Data are derived from the 
Pakistan Fertility Survey (PFS), and Population Labor Force and Migration Survey 
(PLM) in the 1960-70s, the 1976-79 Population Growth Surveys (PGS), and the 
1984-88 PDS. Lower death rates have also occurred among adults. Sex 
differentials in mortality have reversed, although the sex ratio still favors 
males; the improvement may be due to better reporting of female mortality. Life 
expectancy has improved for women, and there are gains over males. The 
disadvantage at 15-40 years has been eliminated. Differential mortality is 
expressed geographically, where urban mortality is much lower than in rural 
areas. There is a relationship between mothers who have some education and lower 
infant mortality. Labor force participation effects on mortality are dependent 
on the reasons for work: economic necessity or in pursuance of a career and 
supplemental income. Findings on the relationship between income or social class 
and mortality are equivocal. Improvements are dependent on further fertility 
declines through birth spacing, educational attainment increases, contraceptive 
use increases, and the declining trend in length of breast feeding. The 
Population Program needs to achieve its targets of reducing family size norms 
and greater spacing between children. Improvements in combating communicable 
disease, including infective and parasitic diseases, are integral to decline in 
death rates. Better sanitation, particularly in slums, and availability of 
potable water are government objectives and will contribute to mortality 
decline. Access and availability of health care are crucial to improvements, 
particularly in rural areas.

PMID: 12285306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Ren Kou Xue Kan. 1991 Apr;(2):28-33.

[A preliminary study on population condition and characteristics of Korean 
minority in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Gu Q, Zhao F.

PIP: Koreans comprise one of the major ethnic minorities in China. Its 
demographic changes have shown special characteristics compared with other 
ethnic minorities. The Korean population has basically completed its demographic 
transition. Its total fertility rate has been below replacement level since the 
early 1980s. 1st and 2nd parity births were 91% in 1981. 3rd parity births and 
above was 64% lower than the Han majority. The age structure of Korean 
population is gradually changing to a stationary population. 0-14 year olds 
comprise 25% of the population and 50 year olds comprise 26%. The average level 
of education of Koreans is high. The number of college graduates/1000 population 
is 3 times higher than the Hans and 6 times higher than other ethnic minorities. 
The illiteracy rate among age 15 and over is 7.16%, the lowest of all ethnic 
groups. Compared with the Hans living in the same areas, Koreans have higher 
mortality rates and lower life expectancy. Cerebrovascular and cardiovascular 
diseases have been the major causes of death. The level of economic development 
in the areas where the Korean population is concentrated fell behind its stage 
of population development. The economy ranked in the middle among the areas of 
ethnic minorities. Brain drain is an important problem in some Korean minority 
areas. With in-migration of Hans with low level of education and out-migration 
of the well-educated Koreans, the labor structure and its quality in these areas 
is at stake. Such imbalance may produce serious negative social implications.

PMID: 12285483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Ren Kou Xue Kan. 1991 Apr;(2):34-7.

[Changes of marriage age in ancient China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang D.

PIP: The changes in age of marriage in ancient China can be classified into 3 
periods. Around 680 B.C., the government set the age of marriage at 20 for men 
and at 15 for women. Even though it was written in the works of the Confucian 
school that men should marry at 30 and women at 20, it was never really 
followed. The Wei and Jin dynasties provided the longest periods of war and 
social instability. Large numbers of population died because of war or famine. 
Because heavy taxes were collected on each member of family, many families did 
not report marriage or childbirth. In order to encourage childbirth, the 
government reduced the age of marriage to 15 for men and 13 for women. 
Administrative and legislative regulation were introduced to force people to 
marry early, especially women. Incentives were given to families with more 
women. These policies was enforced due to the imbalance of the sex ratio and 
reduction of population size. As female infanticides were prevalent because of 
differential values placed on male and female children, it was difficult for men 
to find partners to marry. Shortage of women was also the result of the polygamy 
of the rich and the aristocracy. The imbalance of the sex ratio forced women to 
marry early. Nevertheless, women getting married too early were not fertile. 
Infant or child mortality was high among children of young mothers. From the 
Song to the Ching dynasties, the age of marriage was set at 16 for men and 14 
for women. In the ancient times, the population of China was around 60-70 
million before the Ching dynasty. Generally speaking, the population size was 
small. Early marriage was necessary and feasible. Even though fertility in 
ancient times was high, mortality has high also. Life expectancy ranged form 22 
to 35. People needed to marry early and have children early to replace 
themselves. On the other hand, large land areas and inefficient production tools 
required a larger labor force. Large population size also represented resources 
and potential for development. From the viewpoint of both the government and the 
individual, it was beneficial to marry early and have children early.

PMID: 12285484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Asia Pac Pop Policy. 1992 Mar;(20):1-4.

Fertility decline in Bangladesh: an emerging family planning success story.

Greenspan A.

PIP: Bangladesh has a population of 115 million people, and the economic growth 
rate of 3.7% during the 1980s was undermined by rapid population growth. The 
annual population growth rate was 3% in the 1960s and early 1970s, 2.5% between 
1981-91 decreasing to 2.3% in 1991. The average of number of children is 
4.6/woman compared with 7 in the 1960s. Infant mortality dropped from 150/1000 
births in 1976 to 118/1000 in 1991. Life expectancy rose from 47 to 54 years. 
The 1991 Contraceptive Prevalence Survey showed that 39.9% of married women 
under 50 use contraceptives in 1991 vs. 18.6% in 1981. The use of modern methods 
increased from 10.9% in 1981 to 31.2% in 1991, while traditional methods rose 
from 7.7% to 8.7%. Sterilization was most prevalent in 1981. 29,000 female 
family planning (FP) workers were aggressively engaged in dispensing FP services 
in 1990. The Social Marketing Company sells pills, condoms, and oral rehydration 
salts through 130,000 retail outlets. The 1989 Contraceptive Prevalence Survey 
showed that 40% of pill and condom users obtained them from this network, and 
95.4% of women knew about 4 methods of contraception. In 1990 there were 120 
private organizations providing contraceptive services. Some of the components 
of the government FP program include field worker distribution door-to-door of 
injectable contraceptives (50% injectable usage rate in the Matlab project); 
recordkeeping activities; a satellite clinic network with access to 
contraceptive services; and decentralization through the Upazila (subdistrict) 
approach. The logistics system of FP has improved the warehousing, 
transportation, and management information system. Foreign aid (mainly USAID) 
financing of contraceptives helped avert 14.4 million births between 1974-90. 
The increase of contraceptive prevalence to 50% by 1997 would avert another 21.9 
million births during 1991-96 (replacement fertility requires 70% prevalence.

PMID: 12285494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Genus. 1991 Jul-Dec;47(3-4):1-29.

A new insight into morbidity and mortality transition in Italy.

Caselli G, Egidi V.

"Average life expectancy in Italy more than doubled over the last 100 years, 
rising from 36 years in 1887 for both sexes to 72 and 79 years for men and 
women, respectively, by 1986.... The aim of the present study is to interpret 
this trend in the light of the mortality dynamic by age and...the health 
transition which began in Italy at the close of the last century. By 
reconstructing the annual data necessary for this purpose it will be possible to 
pin-point how and when changes took place in the cause-specific mortality 
structure and what impact these changes had in either accelerating or curbing 
improvements in life expectancy." (SUMMARY IN FRE AND ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12285497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Genus. 1991 Jul-Dec;47(3-4):183-202.

Demographic estimates for Malawi using data from 1926 Census.

Srivastava ML.

PIP: A sample of 2100 women from administrative districts in Malawi was 
constructed in 1926 to obtain information on fertility, mortality, and the 
distribution of native populations. This paper uses the 1926 data to estimate 
fertility, infant mortality, and child mortality and to validate results. The 
Censuses prior to 1970 were ignored as demographic indicators. The 1926 data 
were found to be consistent internally; the fertility level and the pattern of 
fertility has remained constant over a long period. Results correspond to 
figures generated by the Central Statistical Office from the 1977 Census. The 
average annual rate of growth (intrinsic growth rates) for the period 1901-45 
was 2.24% compared with the female life table method rates of 2.11%. Stable age 
distribution for males and females was constructed from life tables and the 
intrinsic growth rates, i.e., 37.78% of females were 12.7 years when 
interpolated linearly, which was the same figure as the reported age 
distribution. The 1926 Census reported 179,559 males and 177,110 females 7 
years; when 60% of the stable age distribution of children 0-4 years is added to 
60% of those 5-9 years, the estimated numbers are 176,510 males and 180,606 
females. The Census numbers are 1.73% greater for males and 1.94% lower for 
females, which is considered to be close enough. The stable estimate of males in 
1926 is 57,986 more than the enumerated population, which could be accounted for 
by migration figures from the Census of 1926, the Rhodesian Census of Malawians 
at that time: 50-66,000, and other research reports. Stable birth rates were 
estimated as 57.4/1000 population for males and 53.2/1000 population for 
females, and weighted per share in the total population as a birth rate of 
55.2/1000 population for both sexes. Estimates from the 1977 Census compare 
favorably at 55.3/1000/year. Infant mortality was estimated as 239/1000, or 38% 
died at 5 years and 45% at 10 years. Life expectancy was 30.4 years for males 
and 33.5 years for females. The 1977 Census estimates were 190/1000 births for 
1967-77 with 32% dying at 5 years and 37% at 10 years. The total fertility rate 
for 1926 is estimated at 7 or more children/woman which had been constant until 
after independence in 1964. Mortality was also constant at 240/1000 live births. 
Explanations are given of the data and their evaluation and analytical 
procedures.

PMID: 12285502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Popul Today. 1992 Oct;20(10):3.

Sahel moves on population policies.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Sahel region is comprised of Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Chad, the 
Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal. It is one of the 
poorest regions on earth. 44 million people live in the Sahel countries with a 
life expectancy of 49 years and more than one out of every eight babies die 
during infancy. The rate of contraceptive prevalence is no higher than 11% for 
any of the countries and women have an average of 6.5 births during their 
lifetimes; the rate of natural population growth is 3.1% per year. Delegates 
from the Sahel region countries met in Chad in 1989 to discuss population and 
development issues. Formulating the N'Djamena Plan of Action on Population and 
Development in the Sahel, the countries have been moving fast on the issues ever 
since. By the convening of the population policy conference held in Dakar, 
Senegal, July 1992, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger had adopted 
population policies, the Gambia planned to adopt one later in the year, and 
policies or programs were in progress in each of the other countries. This 
progress indicates a new commitment to population issues. There was a great deal 
of solidarity at the 1992 population talks, with participants recognizing the 
challenge posed by rapid population growth in the context of their economic 
situations. Concern was expressed for the need to address the health and status 
of women and children, with a call for specific actions to translate policy 
rhetoric into action and results. Moreover, compared to the 1989 talks, the 1992 
Sahel meeting involved more open discussion of family planning and was attended 
by a greater number of women delegates.

PMID: 12285528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. ASEAN Econ Bull. 1992 Jul;9(1):4-21. doi: 10.1355/ae9-1a.

The dynamics of population ageing into the twenty-first century: ASEAN and 
selected countries of Pacific Asia.

Neville W.

Demographic aging is examined in selected countries of east and Southeast Asia. 
"Among the 10 countries discussed in this article, there is a wide range of 
experience in the process of aging from the advanced stage reached by Japan to 
the incipient stage evident in the Philippines. Although the direction of age 
structural shift in these countries is consistent throughout, earlier patterns 
of fertility, mortality and migration dictate differing effects over the 50-year 
period, 1970-2020. This is apparent in the behaviour and changing relationships 
of cohorts passing through the various stages of the life course. The ultimate 
phase of the current ageing cycle results in a greatly expanded elderly 
component which, if the case of Japan provides a precedent, is likely to be 
further inflated by concurrent increases in life expectancy among the elderly 
themselves."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1355/ae9-1a
PMID: 12285613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Earthwatch. 1990;(40):10-1.

Women need skills, income and family planning.

Mumtaz K.

PIP: The myth in Pakistan is that women do not work outside the home but they do 
even though they tend not to be paid for it. They handle wheat and plant 
vegetables. They tend to and milk cattle. They handle manure used for fuel and 
fertilizer. They receive some money albeit small amounts for picking 
pesticide-laden cotton which puts them at risk. These work activities link them 
more closely with nature and natural resources than men. Yet modern harvest 
methods prevent women from gleaning fields for grain to sell to raise money for 
their family or for wheat stalks to use as fuel. This forces them to take wood 
from forests or shrubbery, thereby straining these limited resources. Other 
problems include population growth, male migration, landlessness, and 
insufficient health services. Society prefers sons. It considers women as 
childbearers and transitory persons. Females tend not to be educated, thus 
society does not value women. Social norms and infant mortality are associated 
with family size--the poorest women tend to have the highest fertility. More 
children serve as an economic safety valve. Many studies shatter the myth that 
women do not work. Policymakers and planners need to learn the results of these 
studies. The number of female-headed households rises. An increasing number of 
women must work to supplement their husband's income. To empower women, they 
need education and to acquire skills. Since they tend to be anemic, have an 
average of 9 births, and a life expectancy at birth for women of 55 years, they 
must also have access to health and family planning services. Nongovernmental 
organizations should help women to be more economically productive which allows 
them some economic independence. For example, in Gilgit, such an organization 
has trained women in tree planting, nursery rearing, vegetable growing, and 
caring for chickens.

PMID: 12285666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Health Millions. 1992 Jun;18(3):2-5.

The rural health care system in China.

Xian HG.

PIP: The implementation strategy for health for all (HFA) in China is presented 
as a targeted effort toward the rural population which makes up 900 million of 
the total 1160 million population. The WHO objective of HFA by 2000 was accepted 
by China in 1983 and 1986. Socioeconomic development has improved considerably 
since 1949. Targets were established 1) to double the 1980 gross national 
product (GNP) and guarantee food, clothing, and shelter between 1981 and 1990; 
2) to quadruple the 1980 GNP between 1991 and 2000, and 3) to attain the average 
income per capita of medium-developed countries. The political system is the 
Communist Party of China (CPC). The Chinese People's Political Consultative 
Conference, which is comprised of members of the CPC and other individuals from 
democratic and other organizations, fills an advisory role. The National 
People's Congress is the highest organ of state power and serves to legislate, 
supervise, and make decisions in some matters including personnel. The Standing 
Committee exercises state power when the Congress is not in session. It is a 
1-chamber system (state administration, judicial system, and chamber system) and 
members of the People's Congress do not resign. Since 1949, the health system 
has grown to 209,000 medical and health institutions, 2.6 million hospital beds, 
4.9 million medical and health workers, an average life expectancy that has 
increased from 35 years to 69 years, an infant mortality rate that has declined 
from 20% to 5.1% from 20%, and a maternal mortality that has declined from 
150/10,000 to 9.4/10,000. Diseases such as cholera and smallpox have been 
eliminated and other diseases such as malaria and goiter have been brought under 
control. A cooperative medical and health care system which was established in 
the 1960s was replaced with a fee system in the 1980s, which has led to medical 
care problems for the rural poor. At present there is a rural medical insurance 
system and a cooperative health system with 3 tiers (health clinic, township 
hospital, and county professional hospitals). In 1990, there were village 
clinics in 87% of the villages. In 1990, central government and local management 
are implementing the objectives stated in 1) Program Objectives of Global Goals 
for Health by 2000 in Rural Areas, 2) Management Procedures for Primary Health 
Care, and 3) Evaluation Standards of Health for All by 2000. Implementation 
began in 1989-90, and stage 2 is to begin in 1991-95, and stage 3 in 1996-2000. 
The problems that will be encountered are investment, population growth, and 
personnel training.

PMID: 12285735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Popul Today. 1993 Jan;21(1):1-2.

Life expectancy falling, morbidity rising in former USSR.

Kalish S.

PIP: In this synopsis of a talk given by Murray Feshbach, the author reviews 
current health trends in the former Soviet Union. The focus is on rising infant 
mortality rates, deteriorating health conditions, and falling life expectancy, 
and their possible environmental causes.

PMID: 12285782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Eur J Popul. 1992;8(4):281-308. doi: 10.1007/BF01796624.

Mortality by cause in the USSR in 1970-1987: the reconstruction of time series.

Mesle F, Shkolnikov V, Vallin J.

"This paper is the first step in an exploration of Soviet cause-of-death 
statistics which became accessible after 1986. Its main aim is the 
reconstruction of consistent annual series for the period 1970-1987 in spite of 
changes in cause-of-death classification caused by the 1980 revision of the 
Soviet nosological system. In a second part, the series thus reconstructed are 
analysed to describe the main features of the evolution of mortality during 
these two decades, using first standardized mortality rates for several very 
important specific causes and, second, using a method of decomposition of life 
expectancy changes. For the first time, trends in causes of death are thus shown 
for the crucial period where life expectancy has grown again after two decades 
of regression." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796624
PMID: 12285970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Studia Demogr. 1991;(105):5-17.

The study of family and household: from description to explanation.

Kuijsten A.

PIP: This discussion of family and household demography focuses on the changing 
structures of families and households and on the limits of macro modeling, a 
multi-level research strategy which accommodates change. Current and planned 
research projects of the demography section of the University of Amsterdam are 
identified. The dilemma of demographic research is illustrated by Teitelbaum and 
Winter's paradox about the decreased capacity to predict fertility trends which 
is associated with increased control over fertility. Family and household 
structure and demography have become more diverse as family norms have changed. 
Regionally, households vary with settlement patterns, socioeconomic structure, 
and the underlying process of demographic change. Some basic patterns of change 
are the decline of average household size; the increase in proportions of one 
and two-person households; and the increase of couple-only, one-parent and 
nuclear households with nonfamily coresidents. These changes have been affected 
by changes to lower fertility and higher life expectancy, the aging of the 
population, shifts in family formation, and family dissolutions and 
reconstitutions. From 1950-80, families and households have changed in ways 
observed by the Council of Europe Select Committee of Experts on Household 
Structures. There is a decrease in marriage, and increase in the rate of 
divorce, a decline in the number of children/marriage, an increase in consensual 
unions, and an increase in one-person households. These changes appear in the 
1980s also, although at a slower rate for some. The projections are for a 
further decline in average household size, an increase in smaller households, a 
greater growth in households with middle-aged people, and an increase in 
nontraditional families. Modeling has changed to emphasize dynamics, explanatory 
approaches, and individuals. Improvements are needed in research to capture the 
two-sex problem, migration changes, calibration of results relative to observed 
data, time trends, heterogeneity in varying circumstances, and cohort and aging 
concepts. Emphasis should be on life-table, life-course, and transition 
approaches. A multi-level research strategy with micro and macro data is called 
for.

PMID: 12286134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Studia Demogr. 1991;(105):99-110.

Marital status life table for selected female cohorts. Evidence from Polish 
retrospective survey 1988 "Life Course -- Family, Occupational and Migratory 
Biography".

Fratczak E.

PIP: a 1988 Life Course Survey of Family, Occupation, and Migration was 
conducted in Poland and used in this construction of marital status life tables 
for selected cohorts of women. The respondent population was aged 45-59 years 
and more than 60 years old. The aim was to evaluate changes in categories of 
marital status. Methods of construction and estimation procedures followed 
Schoen's multistage life tables (MSLT) using the cubic integration formula. The 
results of the estimation and the values of synthetic measures are provided. 
Parameters were estimated on the basis of retrospective survey data and on 
reconstruction of mortality data by the adopted method. Adjustments were made 
for estimated marital status data for the age group over 85 for each cohort. 
Mortality changes affected increases in life expectancy. The ever-married 
population increased from 60.5 to 84.3% which accompanied changes in the 
proportion surviving to age 15 years. Mortality shifts also affected the average 
age of marriage, which was 24.6 years for the cohort 1909-18 and 23.1 for the 
cohort 1939-43. The average number of marriages/females remained relatively 
stable at a level of 1.05-1.08. Changes in marital patterns were reflected in 
death of a husband, death of a woman, and divorces. Divorces increased by more 
than 300%. Results of synthetic rates of widowed and divorced revealed that more 
divorced females than widows marry a second time, which is attributed to the 
average age at divorce and widowhood. The average age of remarriage of divorced 
women varied from 40.9 to 42.5 years old and for widows from 48.1 to 55.3 years 
old. Other observations include that the time remaining in the never-married 
state became shorter; the time of staying in a married state became longer. The 
time remaining in a widowed state slightly increased and remained relatively 
stable. The time of staying in a divorced state increased dramatically.

PMID: 12286135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Adv Contracept Deliv Syst. 1992;8(4):309-14.

Biosocial trends at first pregnancy in Mexican women not exposed to 
contraceptive methods.

Vital-reyes VS, Hernandez Beltran MJ, Roig FG, Cortes-gallegos V.

PIP: Infertility is a problem for many couples who wish to conceive and bear 
children. This paper investigates the relationships of educational status, age, 
onset of menarche, first sexual intercourse, menstrual cycle, gestational 
interval, and coital frequency to infertility in 509 Mexican women who were not 
exposed to any contraceptive method. This study was conducted to gain insight 
into when infertility studies should commence during the course of a woman's 
sexual life. Two thirds of the women were married. On average, menarche took 
place at age 13 years, first intercourse at age 20, and they had sexual 
intercourse 9 times/month. 68% of women became pregnant within the first 12 
months of sexual activity; earliest pregnancy was at age 14 and the latest was 
at age 44. A significant linear correlation was observed between chronological 
age and gestational interval with the achievement of first pregnancy 
significantly related to age and coital frequency. Overall, first pregnancy was 
achieved in almost 90% of monthly menstruating women. Significant estimated risk 
of sterility exists for older women and when periods of expectancy for pregnancy 
are longer than 1 year.

PMID: 12286139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Popul Today. 1993 Feb;21(2):3, 10.

Faster growth, more diversity in U.S. projections.

Pollard K.

PIP: Population projections for the US between 1992 and 2050 are expected to 
show more diversity, older age groups, and greater numbers. Projections are 
expected to be revised every odd year. The 1991 projections reflect for the 
first time information on Asian Americans and Native Americans, and the rate of 
impact of AIDS. Hispanic and non-Hispanic ethnicity is available for all racial 
groups. The projections assumed that 1) future fertility will remain at present 
levels; 2) future immigration will also remain stable; and 3) fertility and 
mortality differentials by racial/ethnic groups will continue their current 
upward trends. New projections are different, because the old projections 
assumed that total fertility for all racial/ethnic groups would converge at 1.8 
by 2050. Fertility is expected to reach 2.12 in 2050. The Immigration Act of 
1990 permits increased immigration; immigration's share of population increase 
is expected to be 32-38% in 2020 and almost 50% in 2050. Life expectancy may 
improve slowly to 82.1 years in 2050, instead of 79.9 years as projected in 
1990. The population count was 248.7 million in 1990 and is expected to increase 
to 274.8 million in 2000, and 382.7 million in 2050. The new projections do not 
estimate leveling off by about 2035, but rather continuing growth. Racial and 
ethnic diversity will grow due to slow growth among non-Hispanic whites, steady 
growth among African-Americans and Native Americans, and rapid growth Hispanics 
and Asian-Americans. The non-Hispanic white population will decline from 76% in 
1990 to 68% in 2010, 60% in 2030, and 53% in 2050. The number of non-Hispanic 
whites will continue to grow to 208 million in 2030 and then decline to 202 
million by 2050. Non-Hispanic blacks will reach 38.2 million in 2010 and 57.3 
million in 2050, which amounts to 13% of the total population in 2010 and 15% in 
2050. Hispanics will increase from 22.4 million in 1990 and 39.3 million in 
2010, which means Hispanics would then be the dominant minority group. By 2030 1 
in 5 persons will be over 65 years.

PMID: 12286198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Popul Today. 1993 Feb;21(2):6-7, 9.

Latin America: how a region surprised the experts.

De Sherbinin A.

PIP: In 1960-1970, family planning specialists and demographers worried that 
poverty, limited education, Latin machismo, and strong catholic ideals would 
obstruct family planning efforts to reduce high fertility in Latin America. It 
had the highest annual population growth rate in the world (2.8%), which would 
increase the population 2-fold in 25 years. Yet, the UN's 1992 population 
projection for Latin America and the Caribbean in the year 2000 was about 20% 
lower than its 1963 projection (just over 500 vs. 638 million). Since life 
expectancy increased simultaneously from 57 to 68 years, this reduced projection 
was caused directly by a large decline in fertility from 5.9 to 3. A regression 
analysis of 11 Latin American and Caribbean countries revealed that differences 
in the contraceptive prevalence rates accounted for 90% of the variation in the 
total fertility rate between countries. Thus, contraception played a key role in 
the fertility decline. The second most significant determinant of fertility 
decline was an increase in the average age at first marriage from about 20 to 23 
years. Induced abortion and breast feeding did not contribute significantly to 
fertility decline. The major socioeconomic factors responsible for the decline 
included economic development and urbanization, resulting in improvements in 
health care, reduced infant and child mortality, and increases in female 
literacy, education, and labor force participation. Public and private family 
planning programs also contributed significantly to the decline. They expanded 
from cities to remote rural areas, thereby increasing access to contraception. 
By the early 1990s, Brazil, Mexico, and Colombia had among the lowest levels of 
unmet need (13-24%) in developing countries. Other key factors of fertility 
decline were political commitment, strong communication efforts, and stress on 
quality services. Latin America provides hope to other regions where religion 
and culture promote a large family size.

PMID: 12286199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Popul Today. 1993 Mar;21(3):6-7, 9.

Retirement quandary: more retirees at younger ages, living longer.

Gendell M, Siegel JS.

The authors examine trends in age at retirement and life expectancy in the 
United States. "We used labor-force data from the Current Population Survey...to 
calculate the percentage change in labor-force participation rates for five-year 
birth cohorts over a series of five-year intervals.... Using these percentage 
changes, corrected for mortality during each five-year interval, we calculated 
the average age at retirement (median age) from the early 1950s to the late 
1990s."

excerpt

PMID: 12286203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Rev Bras Estud Popul. 1991 Jan-Dec;8(1-2):112-24.

[Grouping of countries according to basic and economic indicators].

[Article in Portuguese]

Curi PR.

"Countries are grouped according to a collection of basic and economic 
indicators published by UNICEF, in 1990. Two multivariate statistical methods 
were used: Principal Component Analysis and Cluster Analysis. The study [covers] 
36 countries of the Americas, Europe (including the USSR), the Middle East, Asia 
and the other continents; they were chosen to include countries having complete 
information (for the 16 variables used) and in the most varied stages of 
development. The first principal component was interpreted as a measure of the 
degree of development...with emphasis on the position occupied by Brazil (13th 
place among the 25 American countries). In general, the most discriminative 
variables were the mortality rates of infants and children under five, and life 
expectancy...." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12286253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1992 Oct;37(10):19-24.

[Mortality in the years 1950-1990].

[Article in Polish]

Baran A.

"The author of the paper has attempted to show...trends in...mortality by sex, 
age, place of residence and [the] selected most important death causes in 
Poland. The crude and the specific as well as standardized death rates and life 
expectancy have been analyzed for the period...1950-1990." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12286267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Profamilia. 1992 Dec;8(20):8-21.

[Health for women; women for health].

[Article in Spanish]

Colombia. Ministerio de Salud.

PIP: This document describes a proposed new health policy for Colombian women. 
The rationale for the new policy, known as "Health for women, women for health", 
is discussed, and the general and specific objectives, program description, 
actions and strategies are presented for each of 5 subprograms. The subprograms 
cover health promotion and self-care for women, reproductive and sexual health 
care, prevention of abuse and services for women and children who are victims of 
