violence, mental health, and occupational health Changes in Colombian society 
and living conditions and in the role of women over the past few decades have 
been reflected in changing epidemiologic profiles, life expectancy, and demands 
placed on health services. The Health for women, women for health policy takes 
into account social discrimination against women and its impact on female 
health. The subprogram of health promotion and self-care is intended to 
complement, reinforce, and broaden preventive interventions already offered by 
the health services. The subprogram will require a mobile interdisciplinary team 
to conduct educational campaigns and to coordinate activities. Promotional 
actions include staff training in a gender focus on health and health policy for 
women, development of a health manual for women, and a mass media campaign on 
self-care for women. The subprogram for reproductive health and sexuality will 
reorient existing maternal health services away from their emphasis on 
increasing coverage of prenatal care, promoting births in health facilities, and 
actions to reduce infant mortality and toward services appropriate to the 
different phases of the female reproductive cycle. The subprogram will include 
provision of family planning services, preventing and managing high risk 
pregnancies, providing adequate care in maternity centers for labor and 
delivery, and preventing avoidable maternal deaths. Reviewing and revising 
existing legislation to protect reproductive health is among proposed 
activities. The subprogram for prevention of abuse and services for victims of 
violence will divide its work into 3 interdisciplinary areas focusing on 
services, prevention, and research into causes and prevention. A pilot project 
to provide services to victims of violence and to prevent abuse is in the 
planning stage.

PMID: 12286387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Environ Plan A. 1993 Feb;25(2):245-53. doi: 10.1068/a250245.

Analysis of urban-rural population dynamics of China: a multiregional life table 
approach.

Shen J.

PIP: Multiregional life tables at various ages developed by Rogers and Willekins 
are used to examine the urban and rural dynamics of population (fertility and 
out-migration expectations) in China. Period-cohort survival rates are used in 
the calculation of survival probability. A unit radix is assumed in the 
calculation of the life table for each age. The life expectation of the female 
population a birth is 73.59 years in urban areas and 72.46 in rural areas. Male 
life expectancy is 69.73 years in urban areas and 58.99 in rural areas. Life 
expectancies are higher for rural males aged over 20 years and females aged over 
60 years because of urban and rural differences in out-migration and mortality 
rates. Life expectancy for the rural males over age 60 is 16.55 and for urban 
males over age 60 is 16.00. Rural females over age 70 have a life expectancy of 
12.25 years and urban females over age 70 have a life expectancy of 12.04 years. 
In the calculation of fertility expectations, the occurrence-exposure fertility 
rates of period cohorts are estimated from the forward fertility rates of period 
cohorts by means of forward mortality rates. The occurrence-exposure fertility 
rate of life table cohort y is calculated from the occurrence-exposure fertility 
rates of period cohorts r (y) and r(y + 1). A female born in an urban area is 
expected to have 1.82 children in an urban area and .06 children in a rural 
area. A female born in a rural area is expected to have 2.10 children in a rural 
area and .35 children in an urban area. Rural population has a much higher net 
reproduction rate than urban population. In the calculation of the net 
migraproduction (spatial out-migration expectation), forward out-migration rates 
of period cohorts are used for estimation of occurrence-exposure out-migration 
rates of period cohorts. Mortality rates are included in the calculation of 
population at risk. Out-migration rates are modified to account for nonsurvival 
migrants using mortality rates of the destination region. The 
occurrence-exposure out-migration rate of the life table cohort y is estimated 
similarly as the fertility rates of life table cohorts. A female born in an 
urban area is likely to make .0451 migrations out of the region; a female born 
in a rural region is likely to make .3491 out-migrations. A male born in an 
urban area is likely to make .0475 out-migrations; a male born in a rural area 
is likely to make .2903 out-migrations.

DOI: 10.1068/a250245
PMID: 12286564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Janasamkhya. 1990 Dec;8(2):143-56.

A comparative study of the life tables of Assam, Kerala and India, 1980.

Nath DC, Choudhury L.

The authors construct "life tables for Assam...using the Sample Registration 
System data of 1980 [and applying] Greville's method of constructing abridged 
life tables. These tables are compared with those of Kerala and India. Brass' 
two parameter logit system [when] fitted to survivors shows that risk of 
mortality of Kerala females, is much lower than that of India and Assam."

excerpt

PMID: 12286628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Demografie. 1993;35(3):153-61.

[What are the limits to the human life span?].

[Article in Czech]

Rabusic L.

"Permanent and gradual increase of life expectancy at birth in developed 
countries has raised a question about the limits to human life span--the 
biologically maximum length of life. This paper presents current American 
discussion on the subject to Czech readers." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12286813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Popnet. 1993 Summer;(23):1-11.

World population projections and possible ecological feedbacks.

Lutz W, Prinz C, Langgassner J.

PIP: The aim of this article was to define population scenarios between 1990 and 
2030 for 12 regions in the world. Future paths of fertility, mortality, and 
migration are affected by the size, age structure, and regional distribution of 
the world's population and are responsive to social, economic, and environmental 
factors. A scenario approach puts emphasis on "if-then" calculations; makes all 
assumptions explicit; addresses all components of change separately, giving 
reasons for an invariant measure; and may include a number of scenario options. 
The assumptions in the scenarios chosen were taken from several background 
papers in recent ILASA and Council of Europe publications. The 12 regions 
allowed for grouping by level of development, continents, or other homogenous 
units. Assumptions for the scenarios were that fertility would range between 1.1 
and 2.1 for developed countries and 1.7 and 3.00 for developing countries. 
African fertility was assumed differently at 4.0 to 5.0. Mortality was derived 
from UN and Coale and Guo model life tables adjusted to UN life expectancies. 
Improvement in life expectancy was expected to be the same by sex and to 
increase per decade. Nonproportional mortality change was assumed. Age patterns 
of migrants were taken from model migration schedules of Rogers and Castro. 
Population was expected to begin in 1990 at 5 billion and reach at least 8 
billion over 40-50 years. Under high fertility and low mortality assumptions, 
population size was expected to reach 35 billion by 2100. Under low fertility 
and high mortality assumptions, there could be a rise and then a decline to 1990 
levels. Africa's share of the population would increase from 12% in 1990 to 19% 
by 2030 and 35% by 2100. The mean age of world population would be 36 years in 
1990, 40 years in 2030 under high fertility and high mortality assumptions, and 
60 years by 2100 under low fertility, low mortality, and low migration 
assumptions: evidence of the rapid aging process. Age pyramids are indicated for 
Southern Asia and China. The carbon emissions and population link showed that 
developing countries would experience a doubling of emission by 2050, while 
developed countries would remain about constant. When population is split into 4 
different emissions groups, increased emissions were only 35% over 60 years 
rather than 111% for a homogenous unit. These environmental estimates may be 
undercounts of limited usefulness.

PMID: 12287000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Hong Kong Mon Dig Stat. 1993 Nov:115-27.

Mortality trends in Hong Kong 1971-1992.

Hong Kong. Census and Statistics Department.

"Significant mortality improvement was experienced by the population [of Hong 
Kong] during the period 1971 to 1992. This article summarises the mortality 
trends by age by sex and also by cause of death during this period. The trends 
of the three most commonly used health indicators, viz. life expectancy, infant 
mortality rate and maternal mortality rate, are also discussed."

excerpt

PMID: 12287201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. People Planet. 1993;2(4):10-3.

Nepal: "a problem of governance".

Bhattarai B.

PIP: Nepal faces the choice between sustainable development in a fragile 
mountain environment in balance with a growing population or the continuation of 
stagnation and inertia. The political change of April 1990 created new optimism 
for the country's 18.5 million people, 70% of who live in abject poverty despite 
international aid making up 60% of the development budget. The maternal 
mortality rate stands at an exorbitant 850 deaths/100,000. The life expectancy 
of women is lower than that of men, and there is only 1 doctor for every 30,000 
people, while 90% of births are not attended by a trained practitioner. The 
annual population growth rate amounts to 2.1%, which could double population in 
30 years. This rate had outstripped crop production on a limited supply of land, 
resulting in the addition of another 250,000 poor people every year to the 
total. Government policies are skewed; a major hydroelectric project is planned 
to be constructed in 1994 despite talk about poverty alleviation. The National 
Conservation Plan of 1988 is in its 3rd phase of implementation, with plans in 
forestry, irrigation, livestock, and horticulture also being implemented at the 
request of the World Bank. Family planning lapsed as the vertical delivery 
system was replaced by a horizontal one encouraging villages to build sub-health 
posts providing family planning and primary health care. 700 such village health 
posts exist among 4000 villages, and another 600 are scheduled to open in 1994. 
Positive signs of meaningful development efforts include the budgetary shift to 
education, health care, and clean drinking water provision. Decentralization 
laws passed in 1992 and subsequent local elections aimed at handing over to 
local people the responsibility for their development assisted by government 
funds and technical support. The poor and often illiterate people have the 
manpower to dig irrigation canals and stabilize hillside terraces; therefore, 
the ruling party's central policy is to mobilize there human resources for 
development

PMID: 12287331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. People Planet. 1993;2(4):31.

The 6 "biggies".

Myers N.

PIP: The 6 developing nations with the largest populations in mid-1993 were 
China with 1.18 billion people, India 897 million, Indonesia 188 million, Brazil 
152 million, Pakistan 122 million, and Bangladesh 114 million. Successful 
expansion of population planning programs in these nations could help defuse the 
population bomb. China's fertility rate has hardly declined for several years, 
and the year 2000 projection had to be revised from 1.2 billion to 1.29 billion 
people. India's family planning efforts have also stalled, and even if it 
attains the two-child family by the year 2015, population growth will not level 
out before the total reaches 1.9 billion. In India, Kerala State's population 
density matches that of Bangladesh, and per-capita income is among the lowest in 
the country. Yet, life expectancy is one quarter above the national average, 
infant mortality less than half, and literacy almost twice. And the fertility 
rate is down to 2.3, contrasting strongly with India's average of 3.9. 
Indonesia's population growth rate has plunged from 2.3% per year in the 
mid-1960s to 1.97% in the mid-1980s and to 1.7% today. Women now have an average 
of only three children. Brazil has achieved an annual population growth rate of 
only 1.5% and a fertility rate of 2.6, but fewer than 3 married women in 5 use 
modern contraception. There are an estimated 2 million illegal abortions a year. 
Part of the problem is the gulf between poverty and affluence. As a result of 
this gulf, child mortality remains the fourth highest in Latin America. 
Pakistan's population is projected to grow to 275 million people by the year 
2025. The current growth rate is 3.1% per year. Family size is 6.7 children, the 
desired size is 4 children, and only 9% of married women use modern 
contraception. In Bangladesh, in 1975, the family size was 7 children. In 1993, 
it was fewer than 5. The spread of family-planning facilities boosted 
contraceptive use from 3% in 1971 to 40% in 1991.

PMID: 12287334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. IIPS Newsl. 1993 Jul;34(3):2-4.

Convocation address.

Ghatowar PS.

PIP: The Union Deputy Minister of Health and Family Welfare in India addressed 
the 35th convocation of the International Institute for Population Sciences in 
Bombay in 1993. Officials in developing countries have been concerned about 
population growth for more than 30 years and have instituted policies to reduce 
population growth. In the 1960s, population growth in developing countries was 
around 2.5%, but today it is about 2%. Despite this decline, the world will have 
1 billion more individuals by the year 2001. 95% of these new people will be 
born in developing countries. India's population size is so great that India 
does not have the time to wait for development to reduce population growth. 
Population needs to be viewed as an integrated part of overall development, 
since it is linked to poverty, illiteracy, environmental damage, gender issues, 
and reproductive health. Despite a large population size, India has made some 
important advancements in health and family planning. For example, India has 
reduced population growth (to 2.14% annually between 1981-1991), infant 
mortality, and its birth rate. It has increased the contraceptive use rate and 
life expectancy. Its southern states have been more successful at achieving 
demographic goals than have the northern states. India needs to implement 
efforts to improve living conditions, to change attitudes and perceptions about 
small families and contraception, and to promote family planning acceptance 
earlier among young couples. Improvement of living conditions is especially 
important in India, since almost 33% of the people live in poverty. India needs 
to invest in nutrition, health, and education. The mass media and 
nongovernmental organizations need to create population awareness and demand for 
family planning services. Improvement in women's status accelerates fertility 
decline, as has happened in Kerala State. The government needs to facilitate 
generation of jobs. Community participation is needed for India to achieve its 
health and population goals.

PMID: 12287407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Imbonezamuryango. 1993 Dec;(28):7-11.

[To be better informed: the population problem in Rwanda and the scope of its 
solution].

[Article in French]

Gakwaya D.

PIP: As part of its IEC program, Rwanda's National Office of Population (ONAPO) 
produced a 4-volume work entitled "The Demographic problem in Rwanda and the 
framework of its solution". The work places Rwanda's population problem in 
historical context by noting the progressive acceleration of the growth rate 
beginning in 1940. The population increased from 1,913,000 in 1940 to 3,735,000 
in 1970 and 7,149,215 in 1991. The strategies initially proposed for maintaining 
balance between population and production included resettlement schemes to 
reduce population pressure in crowded zones and increase production. ONAPO was 
created to address the problem more directly. The first and most important of 
the volumes analyzes the relationship between population problems and national 
development. The problems discussed in relation to population include 
agriculture and food supply, nutrition, health and health care, education and 
school attendance, employment, migration and urbanization, environment, 
integration of women into development, changing attitudes and customs, and 
family planning. The second volume discusses food production and food 
self-sufficiency at a time when population is increasing rapidly but food 
production is declining. A model produced by ONAPO attempts to analyze the 
interrelationships between population and food production. Population factors 
included in the model are fertility, mortality, and migration. Twelve vegetable 
crops and 7 animal products evolve in the model according to area devoted to 
them, yield, soil quality, fallow, deforestation, and erosion. Agricultural 
products are transformed in the model to calories, protein, and fats. Different 
scenarios result from the combination of different factors, and their effect is 
to reduce or increase the volume of population and consequently the number f 
calories available per person and per day. Volume 3, on costs and benefits of 
family planning in Rwanda, compares 3 situations; no family planning, realistic 
family planning, and optimistic family planning. It demonstrates the savings in 
health, education, agriculture, and elsewhere that would result from a lower 
rate of population growth. Volume 4, on Rwanda's population policy and plan of 
action, summarizes the population policy and its components of family planning, 
reduction of early childhood mortality, promotion of family welfare, training 
and research, and migration. Specific objectives include increasing 
contraceptive prevalence from 12% in 1990 to 48.4% in 2000, reducing the growth 
rate from 3.6% in 1990 to 2% in 2000, and increasing life expectancy at birth 
from 49 years in 1985 to 53.5 in 2000.

PMID: 12287426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. People Planet. 1994;3(1):32.

Summit surprises.

Myers N.

PIP: A New Delhi Population Summit, organized by the Royal Society, the US 
National Academy of Sciences, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and the 
Indian National Science Academy, was convened with representation of 120 (only 
10% women) scientists from 50 countries and about 12 disciplines and 43 national 
scientific academies. Despite the common assumption that scientists never agree, 
a 3000 word statement was signed by 50 prominent national figures and supported 
by 25 professional papers on diverse subjects. The statement proclaimed that 
stable world population and "prodigious planning efforts" are required for 
dealing with global social, economic, and environmental problems. The target 
should be zero population growth by the next generation. The statement, although 
containing many uncompromising assertions, was not as strong as a statement by 
the Royal Society and the US National Academy of Sciences released last year: 
that, in the future, science and technology may not be able to prevent 
"irreversible degradation of the environment and continued poverty," and that 
the capacity to sustain life on the planet may be permanently jeopardized. The 
Delhi statement was backed by professional papers highlighting several important 
issues. Dr Mahmoud Fathalla of the Rockefeller Foundation claimed that the 
500,000 annual maternal deaths worldwide, of which perhaps 33% are due to 
"coathanger" abortions, are given far less attention than a one-day political 
event of 500 deaths would receive. Although biologically women have been given a 
greater survival advantage, which is associated with their reproductive 
capacity, socially disadvantaged females are relegated to low status. There is 
poorer nutrition and overall health care for females, female infanticide, and 
female fetuses are increasingly aborted in China, India, and other countries. 
The sex ratio in developed countries is 95-97 males to every 100 females, but in 
developing Asian countries the ratio is 105 males to 100 females. There are 
reports of 60-100 million missing females. The human species 12,000 years ago 
had a population of 6 million, a life expectancy of 20 years, and a doubling 
time of 8000 years; high birth rates were important for preservation of the 
species. Profertility attitudes are still prevalent today. Insufficient funds go 
to contraceptive research.

PMID: 12287492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Popul Bull ESCWA. 1991 Jun-Dec;(38-39):79-120.

Socio-economic differentials in child mortality: the case of Jordan.

United Nations. Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia ESCWA. Social 
Development and Population Division.

PIP: The study described levels and trends in child mortality in Jordan and 
provided a multivariate model relating child mortality to socioeconomic 
differentials. The South pattern from the Coale-Demeny model family life tables 
was chosen for the analysis of the proportions dead among children ever born, 
which was converted into the probability of dying by age. The probability of 
dying by the age of 5 years declined from 270/1000 live births around 1950 to 
90/1000 by 1975. By age 5 the risks of child mortality have fallen to relatively 
low levels. Viability of the child was conceptualized as related to nutrition 
and body growth. Nutrition was considered to be affected by household 
socioeconomic conditions, culture, community conditions, early childhood 
factors, and household hygiene and disease prevention. The Mosley and Chen 
framework was not usable due to lack of data. Socioeconomic factors were 
included as important determinants of proximate determinants: type of place of 
residence, parental education, household income, housing conditions, and 
marriage age. Data were obtained from the 1976 Jordan Fertility Survey and the 
1981 Jordan Demographic Survey, which provided consistent and reliable child 
mortality estimates. Age heaping at digits of 0 and 5 did occur. The 
multivariate analysis involved ordinary least squares regressions for estimating 
the relationship between the child mortality measure and a variety of 
independent, categorical variables represented as dummy variables. Findings 
indicated that rural residence was associated with higher child mortality risks 
in 1976 and 1981. Children of mothers or fathers with fewer than 6 years of 
education had higher child mortality risks. Maternal education levels of more 
than 6 years were thought to have a greater impact on rural child mortality. 
Variables which were unrelated to child mortality included method of lighting, 
source of water supply from wells and private taps, and duration of marriage. 
Household water supply from public taps was significantly associated with lower 
rural child mortality risks in 1976 and 1981. Marriage age of 20 years or higher 
was only significant in the 1976 data. The results suggested a widening 
differential associated with socioeconomic differences over time. Little 
variance was explained by the variables. Programs need to target health services 
to less educated rural women.

PMID: 12287528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Janasamkhya. 1991 Jun;9(1-2):25-41.

Breast-feeding in eastern Uttar Pradesh, India: differentials and determinants.

Mukherjee S, Singh KK, Bhattacharya BN.

PIP: In India, interviews with currently married women in 4448 households in 
rural areas of Varanasi, Ghazipur, and Azamgarh districts in Eastern Uttar 
Pradesh were conducted so researchers could examine differentials in breast 
feeding among the various socioeconomic groups and the determinants of breast 
feeding. Around 66% of all women continued to breast feed during the second year 
of life for the index child. More than 25% continued to breast feed for more 
than three years. Among Hindus, sons were breast fed three months longer and two 
months longer than daughters in upper and remaining caste groups, respectively. 
This difference was significant. Hindu women breast fed their children longer 
than did Muslim women. Among Hindus, upper caste, high social status, and high 
educational levels increased the likelihood of early weaning. Among the 
scheduled castes, mothers aged at least 25, low social status, and husbands 
working as laborers in the nonagricultural sector, breast fed for shorter 
duration than their counterparts. As maternal age increased so did the 
likelihood of breast feeding. For example, mothers aged 35-49 breast fed, on 
average, 10 months longer than did mothers aged less than 25.

PMID: 12287690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. AIDS Anal Afr. 1993 Nov-Dec;3(6):5-6.

Country focus: AIDS and HIV in Botswana.

Whiteside A.

PIP: Botswana, which was one of the poorest countries in Africa at independence, 
has become one of the continent's few economic success stories with one of the 
highest gross national products and strong economic growth. This economic 
situation has been used to benefit the people and has resulted in the highest 
life expectancy in Africa and a literacy rate of 74%. In addition, infant 
mortality has fallen from 101/1000 in 1970 to 36 in 1991. The small population 
is growing rapidly with a high percentage aged between 0 and 14 years (45.7). 
Despite this admirable economic situation, Botswana is at risk of an AIDS 
epidemic because of several factors. Rapid economic development has led to rapid 
urbanization and social dislocation, although the new urban dwellers are keeping 
their ties to the countryside. Other HIV transmission routes are in place 
through the 25,000 young, single men Botswana sends to work in the mines of 
South Africa, through the numerous truck transit routes which bisect the 
country, and through the international trading center in Francistown. The fact 
that HIV has accompanied this massive movement of people despite extensive 
interventions by the national AIDS control program can be seen from the results 
of 2 HIV sentinel surveillance surveys. The first survey, conduced between 
February and April 1992 in 4 sites among clients at prenatal, sexually 
transmitted disease (STD), and tuberculosis clinics led to estimates that by 
early 1992, 60,000 people or 4.5% of the total population and 9% of the sexually 
active population were infected. The second survey, held between February and 
April 1993 in 9 sites (to include rural areas) showed that the peak prevalence 
for women is among 20-24 year olds and for men is among 26-29 year olds. 
Prevalence was highest among those not married or living in a stable 
relationship. Although many women reported having monogamous relationships, many 
men reported having unprotected sex with multiple partners. It was concluded 
that HIV has continued to spread in Botswana in urban and rural areas. In the 
second largest town, 33% of pregnant women are infected, in the capital 20% are 
infected, and between 10 and 20% are infected in the rest of the country. The 
next survey will determine if the epidemic has reached its peak.

PMID: 12287722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Curr Dig Post Sov Press. 1994 Aug 10;46(28):8-10.

Demographic disaster: death/birth gap widens.

Baiduzhy A.

This article summarizes papers presented at a conference on the worsening of the 
demographic situation in Russia held in July, 1994. They find that "during 1993 
alone the average life expectancy of men and women in the country decreased by 
3.6 [to 59 years] and 2 years [to 72 years], respectively, and the difference 
between them for this index reached 13 years--for modern history, an 
unprecedented occurrence in peace time." It is also noted that the birth rate 
has declined significantly, mortality from injuries and poisoning has greatly 
increased, and the morbidity situation deteriorated. The article concludes that 
the total population is likely to fall by 9 million by the year 2005.

excerpt

PMID: 12287854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Maandstat Bevolking. 1994 Jun;42(6):6-8.

[Decrease in the expectation of life at birth in the Netherlands during 1993].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

"With a few [exceptions] the age-specific mortality quotients based on 
observations during 1993 [in the Netherlands] were higher than the 1992-based 
ones. The increase is strongest in the lower and the higher ages.... It can be 
shown that the most important contributors to the decrease of the expectation of 
life at birth for boys was due to increased mortality quotients in the age 
groups 55 1/2-60 1/2 years or over. For girls the age groups 65 1/2-70 1/2 or 
over are most important." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12288077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. China Popul Today. 1994 Jul;11(3):13-6.

The status and role of women.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Women have enjoyed equal legal rights with men in politics, culture, 
education, work, property, marriage, and the family since the founding of the 
People's Republic in 1949. In 1949, 90% of Chinese women were illiterate; in 
1992, the illiteracy rate for women dropped to 32%, whereas for males it was 
only 13%. In 1992, the proportion of women employed outside the home accounted 
for 72% of the total female population aged 15 years and older and 44% of the 
total number of employees. The total number of urban women employees increased 
from 600,000 in 1949 to 56 million in 1993. In urban areas, women generally 
receive 77.4% of the pay given to men; in rural areas, women receive 81.4%. The 
infant mortality rate dropped from 200/1000 in 1949 to 31.4/1000 in 1992. Life 
expectancy for women has risen dramatically from 36.7 years in 1949 to 72 years 
in 1992. Nevertheless, there is still relatively high mortality among female 
babies aged 0-4 years; and since the 1950s, there has been a major decline in 
the proportion of women breast-feeding their babies in both rural and urban 
areas. Over the past 4 decades, the mean age at first marriage has been 
increasing, and the majority of women now make their own decision regarding 
their marriage partners. China currently has 267 million families, and every 
year, about 10 million newly-wed couples are added to that figure. When the 
Eighth National People's Congress (NPC) was convened in 1993, women deputies 
accounted for more than 21% of the total. More than 300 women have been elected 
mayor or deputy mayor of China's 517 cities. In rural areas in particular, more 
opportunities for education and employment are given to sons, owing to 
traditional misconceptions and the need for boys to help on the farm. The 
All-China Women's Federation has organized women's groups. In the rural areas, 
women are being encouraged to obtain more education and develop skills.

PMID: 12288126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Chin J Popul Sci. 1994;6(1):69-83.

An indirect estimate of the population mortality in Jiangsu province and its 
model.

Huang R.

PIP: In certain developing countries underreporting of deaths occurs frequently, 
and as a result population mortality reports are often inaccurate. According to 
the 10% advance sample data from the Jiangsu portion of China's 1990 census, the 
life expectancy of those born in Jiangsu in 1990 (69.4 years among males and 
74.1 years among females) was very close to the level in Japan in 1970. Four 
indirect techniques were used in order to estimate the population mortality in 
Jiangsu Province in recent years. The results indicate that the death 
registration data of Jiangsu in 1990 improved significantly in quality compared 
with the data in 1982, the completeness factor increasing from 65.5% to 80.6% 
for male death registration and from 67.3% to 79.8% for female death 
registration. However, approximately 20% underreporting of deaths occurred in 
Jiangsu in 1990. Life expectancy estimated by these methods among both males and 
females below the age of 20 was more than 10% higher than the corresponding life 
expectancy in the 1990 life table. The estimated life expectancy of males and 
females at the age of 5 was 73.3 and 79.9 years, respectively, while the 
corresponding figures in the life table were 66.5 and 71.5 years, respectively. 
The conclusions are: 1) The death registration data of Jiangsu obtained in the 
1990 census were better than those obtained in the 1982 census, and the data of 
females were higher in quality than those of males. 2) The death registration in 
Jiangsu was accurate. 3) The Preston-Bennett technique was the best method for 
estimating adult survival rate of an unstable and non-closed population (the 
life expectancy of males and females at the age of 5 dropped to 64.7 and 69.6 
years), and the Bennett-Horiuchich technique was a better procedure to estimate 
the overall adult mortality rate. 4) In Jiangsu in 1982 and 1990, the male 
mortality was close to the Western Model-21, 22, while the female mortality was 
close to the Northern Model-22, 23, particularly among those under the age of 
35.

PMID: 12288180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1994;12(1):33-53.

[Mortality and industrialization in the Basque country. Vizcaya, 1860-1930].

[Article in Spanish]

Gonzalez Ugarte ME.

"This paper examines the decline of mortality in Vizcaya [Spain]...the first 
Basque province to be industrialised at the beginning of the demographic 
transition. Making use of both the death and municipal population registers we 
analyse its diverse trajectory in two differentiated economic environments: 
those municipalities which played an important role in the industrial process 
and those rural municipalities which remained on the sidelines." The author 
compares life expectancies, causes of death, and sanitary conditions, and 
discusses some social consequences of industrialization. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND 
FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12288182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Int J Sociol Fam. 1993 Autumn;23(2):35-50.

China's family planning policy today.

Meredith WH.

PIP: This paper reviews China's family planning (FP) policy and its progress and 
problems in reaching state goals. Opening with a brief description of the 
one-child policy introduced in 1979, the paper moves backward in time to a 
consideration of the historical perspective and government policy. The current 
situation is then described in more detail. It is noted that China's population 
of 1.14 billion in 1990 would have been 1.3 billion without FP and that China 
contains 22% of the world's population with only 7% of its arable land. The 
state hopes to limit the growth rate to 12.5/1000 in the coming decade but a 
birth peak is predicted, birth control work has progressed very unevenly, 
marriage and pregnancy under age 18 is still common in rural areas, and life 
expectancy has risen. Urban compliance is very high, but the desire to have sons 
is still strong in rural areas. Problems with the birth rate among the migrating 
population are being addressed by the requirement that migrants produce "FP 
cards" before applying for residency permits. It is believed that female 
infanticide is still practiced in rural areas and that eliminating son 
preference would reduce the overall birth rate. While many couples rely on 
sterilization, the government is conducting research on new forms of the IUD 
(the most popular contraceptive) and vaccines and is encouraging the use of 
condoms. Most contraceptives are distributed free through an extensive network 
of FP associations. China has faced international criticism for the potential 
abuse to human rights implicit in its one-child policy, but China maintains that 
it opposes forced abortions, forbids infanticide, and that the FP policy 
reflects a more humane response to the reality of China's situation than would 
allowing couples to have large families. While China's methods would not work in 
a more pluralistic society which extols individualism, China's success or 
failure will in large measure determine the future of the world.

PMID: 12288213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Futuribles. 1993;(175):43-55.

[Demographic trends in Europe].

[Article in French]

Parant A.

PIP: A review of recent demographic trends in France is presented in the context 
of trends in Europe as a whole. The main factors noted concerning France are a 
decline in fertility, an increase in life expectancy, a slight increase in 
nuptiality, stability in the number of divorces, and an increase in immigration. 
Differences among the countries of Europe are primarily due to differences in 
both fertility and migration levels.

PMID: 12288216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Notas Poblacion. 1994 Jun;22(59):73-91.

[Adult mortality differentials in Argentina].

[Article in Spanish]

Rofman R.

PIP: Adult mortality differentials in Argentina are estimated and analyzed using 
data from the National Social Security Administration. The study of adult 
mortality has attracted little attention in developing countries because of the 
scarcity of reliable statistics and the greater importance assigned to 
demographic phenomena traditionally associated with development, such as infant 
mortality and fertility. A sample of 39,421 records of retired persons surviving 
as of June 30, 1988, was analyzed by age, sex, region of residence, relative 
amount of pension, and social security fund of membership prior to the 
consolidation of the system in 1967. The thirteen former funds were grouped into 
the five categories of government, commerce, industry, self-employed, and other, 
which were assumed to be proxies for the activity sector in which the individual 
spent his active life. The sample is not representative of the Argentine 
population, since it excludes the lowest and highest socioeconomic strata and 
overrepresents men and urban residents. It is, however, believed to be adequate 
for explaining mortality differentials for most of the population covered by the 
social security system. The study methodology was based on the technique of 
logistic analysis and on the use of regional model life tables developed by 
Coale and others. To evaluate the effect of the study variables on the 
probability of dying, a regression model of maximal verisimilitude was 
estimated. The model relates the logit of the probability of death between ages 
65 and 95 to the available explanatory variables, including their possible 
interactions. Life tables were constructed by sex, region of residence, previous 
pension fund, and income. As a test of external consistency, a model including 
only age and sex as explanatory variables was constructed using the methodology. 
The results confirmed consistency between the estimated values and other 
published estimates. A significant conclusion of the study was that social 
security data are a satisfactory source for study of adult mortality, a finding 
of importance in cases where vital statistics systems are deficient. Mortality 
differentials by income level and activity sector were significant, representing 
up to 11.5 years in life expectancy at age 20 and 4.4 years at age 65. Mortality 
differentials by region were minor, probably due to the nature of the sample. 
The lowest observed mortality levels were in own-account workers, independent 
professionals, and small businessmen.

PMID: 12288285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Eur J Popul. 1994;10(3):223-74. doi: 10.1007/BF01265303.

A reconstruction of the population of north Italy from 1650 to 1881 using annual 
inverse projection with comparisons to England, France, and Sweden.

Galloway PR.

"North Italy annual population and vital rates are reconstructed from 1650 to 
1881 using series of vital event indices from many rural parishes and cities. 
Inverse projection is applied to the reconstructed series of vital events and 
population to generate annual age distribution, gross reproduction rate, net 
reproduction rate, life expectancy at birth, and infant mortality rate. The 
results are compared with official sources and detailed demographic rates 
produced by annual inverse projection using data from England, France, and 
Sweden. Over the long term, North Italy is generally characterized by stagnant 
and relatively high mortality. Fertility and nuptiality are relatively high at 
the beginning and at the end of the period." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01265303
PMID: 12288311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Eur J Popul. 1994;10(3):275-85. doi: 10.1007/BF01265304.

Life expectancy in the former USSR and mortality dynamics by cause of death: 
regional aspects.

Andreev EM, Biryukov VA, Shaburov KJ.

"The purpose of our paper is to present recent trends of mortality in the former 
USSR in terms of demographic transition theory.... Analysis of data on mortality 
dynamics by age and cause of death allows us to consider some features of the 
progress of the demographic transition.... The principal causes of the 
discrepancy between the former USSR and Western countries appear to follow first 
of all from considerably lower living standards.... The second principal cause 
of unfavourable patterns of mortality was an unhealthy environment in the 
workplace and at home." The focus is on the 1980s.

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01265304
PMID: 12288312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Afr Popul Newsl. 1993 Jan-Dec;(63-64):10-1.

Assessment of mortality levels, trends and differentials in relation to the goal 
of "Health for All" by year 2000 in some ECA member states.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The secretariat of the Economic Commission for Africa monitored and 
assessed the goals for attainment of the Health for All (HFA) by the year 2000. 
In the majority of African countries life expectancy ranges between 45 and 55 
years. Infant and child mortality rates are over 80 per 1000 population. The 
countries with high mortality levels were expected by the year 2000 to attain 
life expectancy at birth of 60 or more years and reduce infant mortality to less 
than 50 per 1000 live births and child mortality to less than 70 per 1000 
population. This initial study covered Lesotho, Swaziland, Botswana, Kenya, and 
Tanzania in order to monitor the implementation of attaining the preset targets 
of mortality reduction. In the analysis the interrelationships were defined by 
the HFA variables; by the intervening variables like government policies of 
health and population; and by the demographic factors such as the preset targets 
for mortality reduction. Some limitations of analysis had to do with the 
difficulties of data connection constraining the demographic research on health. 
The Ministries of Health in nearly all countries had problems of adequate 
financing. For example, less than 3% of GNP was available for health expenditure 
in 5 of the countries included in the study. The political instability of 
governments and their inability to sustain socioeconomic development also 
mattered. The drought and expanding populations in most countries have 
contributed to changes in disease prevalence and incidence. Diseases associated 
with poverty like malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, congenital 
anomalies, and complications of childbirth are changing the disease pattern in 
the region. The resistance of malaria to chloroquine and the spread of HIV/AIDS 
complications present enormous challenges to health promotion in the region. 
Botswana, Kenya, and Lesotho should be able to achieve the goals of HFA. The 
study further recommends full implementation of primary health care in order to 
attain the goals.

PMID: 12288477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Afr Popul Newsl. 1993 Jan-Dec;(63-64):2.

The Third African Population Conference adopts the draft Dakar / Ngor 
Declaration on Population, Family and Sustainable Development.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The 3rd African Population Conference, held in Dakar, Senegal, December 
7-12, 1992, adopted the draft Dakar/Ngor Declaration on Population, Family and 
Sustainable Development in preparation for the 1994 Cairo International 
Conference on Population and Development. The meeting was attended by 50 member 
states and many observers from various United Nations Organizations and 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The Conference reviewed the lessons 
learned from the implementation of the Kilimanjaro Program of Action on 
Population (KAP), which had been adopted in 1984. The draft Declaration focused 
on the following areas: a) population, sustained economic growth, and 
sustainable development; family; fertility and family planning; mortality, 
morbidity and AIDS; urbanization and migration; refugees and displaced persons; 
women in development; children; data collection and analysis, information 
dissemination, training and research; information, education and communication; 
b) the role of: private and nongovernmental organizations; the subregional and 
regional groupings; the World Bank and relevant organizations of the United 
Nations System; and the international community; c) resource mobilization; and 
d) implementation of the Declaration. African countries should integrate 
population policies so as to reduce population growth from the present rate of 
3.0% per annum to 2.5% by the year 2000 and to 2% by the year 2010. 
Environmental issues and food security were given special attention. The targets 
set on the contraceptive prevalence rate for Africa were to reach 20% by the 
year 2000 and 40% by the year 2010. The following targets were to be attained by 
the year 2000: life expectancy in Africa at least 55 years; an infant mortality 
rate of less than 50 per 1000 live births; childhood mortality rate of 70 or 
less. Programs to prevent AIDS were also stressed. The Declaration called on UN 
organizations, the World Bank, the Organization of African Unity, and the 
African Development Bank to implement the recommendations. The international 
community was requested to consider conversion of the African debt into grants 
to be used in financing of population activities.

PMID: 12288479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Cambridge J Econ. 1994 Aug;18(4):329-55. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.cje.a035279.

The increase in death and disease under "katstroika".

Ellman M.

The author describes recent trends in mortality and morbidity in the successor 
states to the former Soviet Union. Separate consideration is given to mortality 
under late perestroika (1987-1991) and subsequent mortality trends. The author 
concludes that "the collapse of the USSR and the problems of the successor 
states have had severe adverse affects not only on macroeconomic indices but 
also on the mortality and morbidity of the population.... Since the collapse of 
the USSR, the mortality situation in the successor states has rapidly and 
significantly worsened. Between 1991 and 1993 the crude death rate in Russia 
rose by 26%. As a result, by 1993 the life expectancy at birth of Russian men 
had fallen to about 59, which is about 6 years below the level of 1987.... By 
1993, male life expectancy at birth in Russia had fallen below the level of the 
medium income countries and had probably fallen to a level about that of 
Indonesia in the second half of the 1980s. Ukraine has also experienced an 
increase in mortality since the collapse of the USSR. In other successor states, 
experiencing serious military conflicts, such as Tadjikstan and Armenia, the 
proportionate increase in mortality was even larger than in Russia."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.cje.a035279
PMID: 12288520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Popul Today. 1995 Feb;23(2):4-5.

How many people have ever lived on earth?

Haub C.

PIP: An estimate of the total number of persons who have ever lived on earth 
depends on two factors: 1) the length of time humans have been on earth; and 2) 
the average size of human populations at different periods. According to the 
United Nations' "Determinants and Consequences of Population Trends," modern 
Homo sapiens appeared about 50,000 B.C. At the dawn of agriculture, about 8000 
B.C., the world's population was around 5 million. By 1 A.D., the population had 
reached 300 million, which indicates a growth rate of 0.0512% per year. Life 
expectancy at birth averaged 10 years for most of human history. The birth rate 
would have to be about 80 per 1000 just for the species to survive. Infant 
mortality in the early days of human life would be high, probably 500 infant 
deaths per 1000. Children were probably economic liabilities in hunter-gatherer 
societies; this might have led to infanticide, which in turn would require a 
disproportionately high birth rate to maintain population growth. By 1650, the 
world's population had risen to 500 million, although the Black Plague, which 
began in 542 A.D. in western Asia and killed 50% of the Byzantine Empire in the 
sixth century (a total of 100 million deaths), had slowed the rate of growth. By 
1800, the world's population passed 1 billion and continued to grow to its 
current total of 5.7 billion. Estimating the number of people ever born requires 
selecting population sizes for different points from antiquity to the present 
and applying assumed birth rates to each period. Assuming a constant growth rate 
and birth rates of 80 per 1000 through 1 A.D., 60 per 1000 from 2 A.D. to 1750, 
and the low 30s per 1000 by modern times, 105 billion people have lived on 
earth, of whom 5.5% are alive today. The assumption of constant population 
growth in the earliest period may have resulted in an underestimate, while an 
earlier date of the appearance of humans on earth would raise the number. A 
table of Population Reference Bureau statistics is given.

PMID: 12288594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Popul Headl. 1994 May;(230):2.

Sri Lanka well on way to achieving goals.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Sri Lanka has met or exceeded many of the goals set by the Bali Declaration 
on Population and Development in 1992. For example, the total fertility rate is 
expected to reach 2.2 children/woman a decade earlier than the target date. 
Also, Sri Lanka has reduced infant mortality well below the target of 40/1000 
(to 18.4 in 1990). In addition, maternal mortality remains relatively low in Sri 
Lanka (it would, thus, be difficult to reduce it by half). The reduction in the 
population growth rate has meant that the social indicators of total fertility 
rate, life expectancy, and literacy are among the best in the world. Improvement 
in the status of women is seen as essential to a complete realization of the 
goals of the Bali Declaration.

PMID: 12288611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Popul Headl. 1994 May;(230):7.

Islamic Republic of Iran. "Balance" a daunting challenge.

[No authors listed]

PIP: At the fiftieth session of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and 
the Pacific (ESCAP), the representative from the Islamic Republic of Iran 
expressed concern about continuing rapid population growth in developing 
countries. Overall growth in absolute terms between 1992 and 2025 will result in 
a population increase 16 times greater in developing countries than in developed 
countries. The requirements for food, housing, employment, health care, 
education, and energy of a population this size in relation to availability 
would contribute to the decline of the environment. The success of Iran's First 
Development Plan, which is based on the recommendations of the Bali Declaration 
on Population and Sustainable Development, is indicated by a decreased 
population growth rate (from more than 3% to 2.5%) and by an increased life 
expectancy (from 58 years in 1976 to 67 years in 1992). Policies that have been 
implemented include 1) increasing literacy and general knowledge in the 
population, particularly by increasing the level of school attendance of girls; 
2) improving the status of women through an extension of education and by 
increasing their participation in management of the family and society; 3) 
improving health conditions and decreasing maternal and infant mortality; 4) 
repealing all regulations that encourage population growth and adopting measures 
in conformity with national birth control policies; and 5) increasing rural per 
capita income through diversification of job opportunities and creation of 
income from nonagricultural sources in rural areas.

PMID: 12288616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1994 Jan;49(4):57-70.

[[Abridged working life tables for Japanese men and women: 1990]].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Abridged working life tables are presented for Japan for the period from 
1950 to 1990 by sex.

PMID: 12288669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Indian Econ J. 1992 Jul-Sep;40(1):116-38.

Demographic links to savings in life cycle models: identification of issues for 
LDCs.

Raut LK.

PIP: The author considers the potential for a link between the recent pattern of 
demographic transition and intertemporal and inter-country variations in savings 
rates. Fertility, infant mortality, life expectancy, and levels of female and 
child labor force participation are among the various demographic factors which 
affect national savings rates through their effects upon age structure, 
age-specific individual savings behavior, and their general equilibrium effects 
upon interest rates, wage rates, and income distribution. The author establishes 
a simple discrete time life cycle model of savings, explains the issues related 
to age structure, and discusses the effect of age-specific savings functions, 
the general equilibrium effects of demographic factors, the effects of life 
expectancies and child mortalities, and the nature of social security coverages 
in less developed countries, as well as issues which are especially important 
for less developed countries. A new strategy for empirically evaluating 
demographic policies is proposed. That is, one can estimate the age profile of 
earnings, saving and fertility rates from household survey data. The life tables 
can then be used to compute the aggregate savings rate and population size. Any 
demographic policy which affects the fertility rate, life expectancy, and 
investment in the quality of children will change the aggregate saving and 
population growth rates. These two aggregate effects could be compared to 
evaluate demographic policies. The author stresses, however, that changes in 
different demographic factors will have different short-run and long-run effects 
upon the savings rate which will also depend upon whether such changes are 
transitory or permanent.

PMID: 12288795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

