
40. Ahfad J. 1994 Jun;11(1):16-26.

Women's income generation activities in Merowe Province, Northern State, Sudan.

Pitamber S, Osama S.

PIP: Merowe province in rural northern Sudan has been divided into three local 
government council areas: Merowe, Karima, and Ed Debba. A government program was 
instituted to increase the welfare of residents and food production. A baseline 
survey of 490 respondents was conducted in order to ascertain how illiterate 
women viewed development in the area and to provide useful information for 
program design and implementation. Women from 24 villages were administered 
questionnaires, observed in their daily activities, and engaged in discussion in 
a local meeting place. Discussions were also held with members of the local 
Popular Committee. Demographic information was very sketchy about age, and 48% 
had no formal education in writing and reading. General reading and writing 
skills of the remainder were very poor. There were 500 female children and 502 
male children, and the sex ratio varied among the 3 council areas. 52% were 
married and 14% were divorced or widowed and living with relatives. The average 
monthly income was from Ls. 700 to Ls. 3000 based on reports from only 59.3% of 
respondents. Most of the women had skills in food processing and 25.7% were 
skilled in handicrafts. Water was obtained primarily from local wells and not 
decontaminated before use. Pit latrines were the standard. One bathing facility 
was available in the compound for the entire council area. Health units were 
either in each village or within 20-30 minutes walk. Child mortality was 4.3% in 
Merowe province. 77 children 0-5 years old died out of a total of 1002 live 
births. Life expectancy was 41-50 years for women and 61-70 years for men. 
Cleanliness and healthful eating were observed. 58% owned no land; plots were 
under 5 feddans and usually half a feddan. 92.1% had no bank account and 90% had 
no experience with loans. 70.2% were indifferent about involvement in an income 
generation program. 26% were interested in part-time participation. Only 3.9% 
desired full-time participation. 8.6% said they wanted raw materials to produce 
handicrafts, and 21% said they wanted cash to raise livestock. 28.4% had radios. 
80.4% lacked any farm equipment. 7.6% owned an electric pump and 7% had an ox 
plough. A program could be offered after lunch and coordinated with other 
activities after 4 P.M. at a local center. The population would have to be 
oriented to business and income generation would have to be planned very 
carefully.

PMID: 12288810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Kyklos. 1993;46(3):399-409. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-6435.1993.tb00515.x.

Country estimates of social discount rates based on changes in life 
expectancies.

Brent RJ.

"When time is the numeraire in a social evaluation of public projects, life 
expectancies are essentially the unit of account. Since different generations 
have different life expectancies, pursuing intergenerational equity requires 
discounting the extra time that future generations are likely to obtain. The 
result is a Social Discount Rate set by the growth rate in life expectancies. 
This is called the Life Expectancy Discount Rate (LEDR). After providing 
estimates of the LEDR for 120 countries, the paper discusses some of the 
implications of using this rate." (SUMMARY IN FRE AND GER)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-6435.1993.tb00515.x
PMID: 12288867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Communist Econ Econ Transform. 1993;5(4):499-517. doi: 
10.1080/14631379308427772.

Mortality and the fate of communist states.

Eberstadt N.

The author suggests that the general tendency to overestimate the economic 
success of communist countries by Western scholars before the breakup of the 
Soviet Union was due primarily to a failure to take proper account of 
demographic factors, and particularly declines occurring in life expectancy. 
"The first section reviews the anomalous history of mortality trends in Central 
and Eastern Europe and the USSR between the end of the Second World War and the 
'end of the Cold War'. The second draws inferences about economic performance in 
those countries from their mortality trends. The third examines some 
characteristic differences in mortality trends between those areas in which 
communist rule has recently collapsed and those in which it continues, and 
speculates about the significance of the distinction. The final section 
discusses the significance of current mortality trends for post-communist 
societies, especially as they pertain to the prospective transition to a stable 
economic and political order."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/14631379308427772
PMID: 12288887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1993 Oct;8(4):463-72. doi: 10.1007/BF00972572.

Aging trends--Fiji.

Gist YJ.

PIP: An analysis of recent demographic trends in Fiji is presented using data 
from the International Data Base on Aging at the U.S. Bureau of the Census. The 
focus is on the aging of the population and its consequences. The author 
discusses such issues as increases in life expectancy, the residential 
characteristics of the elderly, elderly employment, marital status, and the 
health status of the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00972572
PMID: 12288889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1994 Apr;9(2):255-76. doi: 10.1007/BF00972153.

Aging trends--southern Africa.

Gist YJ.

PIP: This is an overview of demographic aging in the six countries of southern 
Africa, which are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, and 
Zimbabwe. The data are from various national and international sources that have 
been combined to form the U.S. Census Bureau's International Data Base on Aging. 
The author notes that the region has Africa's highest percentage of older 
inhabitants. Other topics explored include life expectancy and health, urban and 
rural population, marital status, education, living arrangements and social 
support, and employment and subsistence.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00972153
PMID: 12288890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. China Popul Today. 1995 Feb;12(1):4-9.

Accelerate social development to promote the advancement of society.

Hao J.

PIP: The statement of the vice minister of the Chinese State Planning Commission 
emphasized the achievements made by the government in improving the quality of 
life of the Chinese people, protecting the environment, controlling population 
growth, improving health and employment, improving public and social security, 
and promoting national solidarity. The Chinese government will look forward to 
sharing the Chinese experiences with social development at the forthcoming UN 
World Summit on Social Development in March, 1995. Since 1980 a national program 
for economic development has been in force. Since 1949 and the founding of the 
People's Republic and particularly since 1978, many advances have been made. The 
Chinese government has been able to provide adequate food and clothing for a 
population comprising 22% of the world's population living on 7% of the world's 
land. Not only have basic living standards been met, but per capital disposable 
income has increased. Ownership of durable consumer goods has increased to the 
level of moderately developed countries. Radio messages reach about 80% of the 
population, and television reaches about 83% of the population. Family planning 
programs have promoted a balance among population with ecology and socioeconomic 
development. The rate of natural increase has declined from 25.83 in 1970 to 
11.45 in 1993. The crude birth rate for the same period declined from 33.43 to 
18.09. The crude death rate has remained at about 6-7 per 1000 population. The 
total fertility rate has been reduced to 2.0. Life expectancy has increased from 
65 years to 70 years. Illiteracy among the population 15 years and older has 
greater improved; the illiteracy rate among youth and adults was 7% in 1993. 
Environmental policies have brought industrial pollution under strict control. 
Sewage treatment plants have been built. Natural gas and centralized heating 
have been promoted. Sound agricultural practices have been promoted. 
Reforestation efforts have resulted in the planting of almost 10 billion new 
trees. 13.9% of land area was forested in 1993. 600,000 sq km of eroded land has 
been reclaimed. Natural preserves (776) cover 661,800 km. 97.7% of school-age 
children were enrolled in school in 1993. 53.7% of the senior middle school 
population was enrolled in technical education. 80.8% of rural population has 
access to safe drinking water.

PMID: 12288944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Popul Bull. 1995 Mar;50(1):1-44.

New perspectives on population: lessons from Cairo.

Ashford LS.

PIP: The lessons from the 1994 World Population Conference in Cairo, Egypt, are 
summarized in this publication. The topics of discussion include the evolution 
of population policies, the changing policy environment, demographic trends, and 
solutions in the form of gender equity, provision of reproductive health 
services, and sustainable social and economic development. The program of action 
supported by 180 governments and targeted for 2015 articulated the goals of 
universal access to a full range of safe and reliable family planning methods 
and reproductive health services, a specified level of reduction in infant and 
child mortality, a specified level of reduction in maternal mortality, an 
increase in life expectancy to 70-75 years or more, and universal access to and 
completion of primary education. Other features include goals for improving 
women's status and equity in gender relations, expansion of educational and job 
opportunities for women and girls, and involvement of men in childrearing 
responsibilities and family planning. Steps should be taken to eliminate poverty 
and reduce or eliminate unsustainable patterns of production and consumption. 
Population policy must be integrated within social and economic development 
policies. About $22 billion will be needed for provision of family planning and 
reproductive health services by the year 2015. Costs will increase over the 
10-year period due to the increased population to be served. Per person user 
costs for family planning alone are higher in countries without infrastructure 
and technical skills. Actual costs vary with the cost of contraceptive supplies, 
patterns of use, and efficiency of delivery systems. Although the plan offers 16 
chapters worth of advice and recommends 243 specific actions, countries will 
have to be selective due to cost limitations. The 20/20 Initiative is proposed 
for sharing social service costs between international donors (20%) and host 
countries (20%). A separate UN projection of need is for 33% of support from 
international donors for family planning and related programs. The constraints 
to the implementation of the action plan are identified as the rate of 
demographic change, the extent of public support for population limitation and 
provision of family planning services, and potential conflicts of interests and 
funding between cooperating agencies. The World Bank has developed guidelines 
for policy development according to a country's identification as an emergent, 
transitional, or advanced country.

PMID: 12289007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. AIDS Anal Afr. 1995 Jun;5(3):3.

WHO still reeling from racism charges.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The World Health Organization (WHO) is not as prestigious as it used to be. 
It operates on a relatively small annual budget of $1.8 billion, the WHO 1995 
audit suggested irregularities in the way contracts were awarded and criticized 
a lack of control over funds at the WHO's African headquarters in the Congo, and 
its director, Hiroshi Nakajima, has been accused of being a racist against 
Africans. Nakajima complained during a January 1995 WHO board meeting that some 
African members had poor English skills. Delegates from several African nations 
to the annual World Health Assembly, which began in Geneva on May 1, 
subsequently raised the issue and called for the Japanese director to resign. 
The release of the recent WHO health report, "Bridging the Gaps," was an attempt 
by the organization to regain some its international respect, but little new was 
reported. Basic messages were that poverty is the most important cause of ill 
health, 60% of all new HIV infections occur among people aged 15-24 in many 
countries, 50% of people with HIV globally are younger than 25 years old, 60% of 
infections in women occur by age 20, and life expectancy is increasing in all 
countries except Cote d'Ivoire, Central African Republic, Congo, Uganda, and 
Zambia, all countries hard-hit by HIV/AIDS. For now, Nakajima has retained his 
position, although British and US donors stress that they will keep closer watch 
over the organization and that reforms must be made.

PMID: 12289039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1988;15:2, 256-62.

National Population Policy, 1983.

Jamaica.

PIP: Jamaica's National Population Policy of 1983 sets forth the following 
goals: 1) to achieve a population size of less than three million by the year 
2000; 2) to improve the health status of the nation and achieve an increase in 
life expectancy at birth to around 73 years by the year 2000; 3) to provide high 
quality family planning services to all women in order to achieve replacement 
level fertility; 4) to increase employment opportunities; 5) to promote balanced 
development and spatial distribution of the population; and 6) to improve the 
satisfaction of basic human needs. This document outlines the rationale behind 
the goals of the population policy and recites the process by which the policy 
was formulated. A discussion of past and future population trends points out 
that Jamaica has been experiencing demographic transition since the 1960s which 
has been driven by a profound economic and social transformation, including a 
decline in the percentage of the population working in agriculture. It is 
projected that Jamaica's population will be under 3.1 million in the year 2000 
and that its age distribution will stabilize. In order to implement the National 
Population Policy, several organizational measures will have to be taken, 
including some that will require legislative change. The process of implementing 
and monitoring the National Population Policy will be the responsibility of the 
National Planning Agency, the National Family Planning Board, a coordinating and 
advisory Population Policy Committee, the Department of Statistics, and the 
University of the West Indies.

PMID: 12289389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Eur J Popul. 1994;10(4):319-48. doi: 10.1007/BF01266567.

Does it matter where I live in Western Europe? An analysis of regional mortality 
differentials in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands.

Van Der Veen WJ.

"Regional differentials in life expectancy at birth during the 1980s in Belgium, 
The Netherlands and some parts of the former Federal Republic of Germany are 
presented and commented upon. Life expectancy at birth during the 1980s was 
highest in the Netherlands, and lowest in some parts of southern Belgium. 
Substantial differentials existed in 1980, particularly because of differential 
mortality due to diseases of the circulatory system, lung cancer, breast cancer, 
motor vehicle accidents and suicide. These differentials persisted throughout 
the 1980s, but gradually converged. Gains in life expectancy were mainly due to 
declining cardiovascular and cerebrovascular mortality. Sharp and persistent 
differentials between border regions in the study area point to societal and 
cultural forces bringing about dividing lines between relatively homogeneous 
mortality profiles." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01266567
PMID: 12289771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Kolner Z Soz Sozpsychol. 1993 Dec;45(4):712-30, 828.

[Social determinants of life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Klein T.

"Life expectancy and mortality increasingly are analyzed in the context of 
social factors. This study analyzes the impact of social position, marital 
status, and religious confession on cohort life expectancy. The analysis is 
based on [German data from the] Socio-Economic Panel Survey, wherein 
proxy-interviewee's parents have been used to estimate cohort mortality. Results 
confirm a lower mortality risk of the upper classes and of married persons. 
However, as opposed to other studies, Catholics do not have a lower, but even a 
higher mortality risk." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12289802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. ZPG Report. 1995 Jul-Aug;27(4):4, 10.

Signs of the times. New indicators point the way to progress.

Steinzor N.

PIP: The US has one of the highest per capita incomes worldwide. Among 
industrialized countries, however, it also has some of the highest rates of 
population growth, poverty, infant mortality, and teen pregnancy. This growing 
contradiction has led to the development of new ways to define progress and 
development. Indeed, the UN Development Program has found that when standards 
such as nutrition, education, and life expectancy are considered, residents of 
low per capita income countries often have high levels of human security. The 
primary indicator of the macroeconomic health of the US since World War II has 
been gross national product, recently substituted by gross domestic product 
(GDP). GDP, however, reflects only dollar values and does not account for many 
social and environmental factors which strongly influence the quality of life. 
The human value of one's life transcends economic value. Alternative indicators 
are therefore called for which reflect the benefit of sustainable planning and 
development practices, providing a more accurate picture of existing resource 
levels and how they are used. Hazel Henderson, a pioneer in alternative 
economics, together with the Calvert Group, a socially-conscious investment 
firm, is developing a quality of life indicators system for use by communities 
and policymakers nationwide. The system includes factors such as population 
growth, education, housing, health care, employment, political participation and 
civil rights, personal safety, arts and recreation, and environmental quality. 
This comprehensive approach to assessing community resources has been 
implemented in several countries around the world, such as the Netherlands and 
New Zealand, and is gaining ground in the US. Grassroots organizations such as 
ZPG have an important role to play in helping Americans understand the need for 
this kind of transition.

PMID: 12289954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Contracept Technol Update. 1995 May;(5):57-9.

A new look at an old device: can IUDs make a comeback?

[No authors listed]

PIP: The longest-acting contraceptive method available in the world, the 
ten-year copper T380A IUD is also the most popular of IUDs in the US, used by 
approximately 500,000 American women as of the end of 1992. More than 25 million 
of the devices have been distributed in 70 countries worldwide. Despite the 
contraceptive effectiveness of the IUD, many patients and providers fear its 
use. This fear stems from controversy surrounding the more than 4000 product 
liability cases filed in the mid-1970s against A.H. Robins Co.'s Dalkon Shield. 
Since then, however, research has found there to be no link per se between IUDs 
and pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). It is therefore high time that the bad 
reputation of IUDs be repaired and the level of IUD use increased. The US Food 
and Drug Administration recently approved the two-year extension on the 
eight-year useful life of the T380A, while diabetes and a history of PID can now 
be considered as precautions to use instead of contraindications. Even so, only 
120 of 288 family planners in a 1994 survey reported that they provide IUDs. 
This is so mainly because of providers' fear of litigation and ongoing 
misinformation about the IUD. GynoPharma Inc., distributor of the T380A, offers 
a set of videotapes on its product, one tape of a live IUD insertion for doctors 
and nurses, and a second tape for patients of women discussing their experiences 
with IUDs.

PMID: 12290147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Popul Headl. 1995 Jun;(243):1.

Population indicators in India improving for 935 million people.

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to the representative of India, which has a population of 935 
million, at the 51st session of the United Nations Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), population indicators for India are 
improving. The life expectancy for women rose from 31 years in 1951 to 58 years 
in the late 1980s, surpassing male life expectancy (57.7 years). Death rates for 
females decreased faster than for males in the last decade; for 1989-1991, 
female death rates were 9.8 per thousand, while male death rates were 10.1. The 
sex differentials in infant mortality rates were bridged, and maternal mortality 
rates are declining steadily. Reasons for these improvements include the 
following: 1) India has a nationwide primary health care system and maternal and 
child health facilities; and 2) the world's largest network of support services 
for women through the Integrated Child Development Services, which covers 17.6 
million children, and 3.9 million pregnant and breast-feeding women, provides a 
package of services including supplementary nutrition, immunization, health 
care, growth monitoring, pre-school education, and nutrition and health 
education. In order to implement the Programme of Action of the International 
Conference on Population and Development, India is in the process of formulating 
programs to improve the quality of health care, including reproductive health, 
through the primary health care system. The representative stated that 
assistance from ESCAP was useful in the areas of population and development, 
rural-to-urban migration, and international migration.

PMID: 12290166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Desarro Base. 1994;18(2):2-12.

[The silent revolution: child survival has reached a crossroads].

[Article in Spanish]

Bendahmane DB.

PIP: Over the past three decades, programs to reduce infant and child mortality 
have spread to most regions of the globe, and improvements in mortality levels 
have raised life expectancy in developing countries from 50 years in 1965 to 
over 60 in 1986. Many of the surviving children, however, are impoverished, 
poorly educated, and living in inhospitable environments. Conditions have 
worsened for many in the recent past; the World Bank estimates that the 
proportion living in extreme poverty has increased from 22.4% in 1985 to 25.5% 
in 1990 in Latin America and the Caribbean. Extreme poverty, once a largely 
rural phenomenon, has been brought to the cities by millions of rural migrants. 
War and civil disturbances in many areas have added to the problems of children. 
UNICEF estimates that 1.5 million children have been killed and six million 
incapacitated in armed conflicts in the past decade. Advances in education have 
not kept pace with advances in child survival. In South America, 99% of children 
begin primary school, but only 48% finish the fourth grade. An estimated 100 
million children worldwide leave school by the fifth grade. The very young age 
structures in most developing countries increase the difficulty of meeting the 
needs of children and youth. Means must be found to escape the downward spiral 
of poverty, excessive population growth, and environmental damage. Population 
control, infant and general mortality reduction, and education reduce the impact 
of this vicious cycle. Despite the proven contribution of improved female 
education to child survival, lower fertility, and improved living standards, 
many poor countries continue to discriminate against girls in education. The 
examples of some Asian countries such as Korea and Taiwan suggest that 
investment in primary and secondary education for all broadens the base for 
development and leads to longterm political stability. International donors, 
development agencies, and other organizations should invest in human capital so 
that poverty, rapid population growth, and environmental degradation acting 
synergistically do not become the dominant mode of underdevelopment in the next 
century.

PMID: 12290208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. AIDS Anal Afr. 1997 Apr;7(2):2-5.

The Durban colloquium. A special report.

Pisani E.

PIP: In 1997, demographers and policymakers met under the auspices of the 
International Union for the Scientific Study of Population and the University of 
Natal to discuss HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts. It became evident that 
these two groups have enjoyed very little dialogue previously and that each 
needed to change their attitudes towards the other in order to work together 
effectively to prevent and control HIV/AIDS. Planners must identify the research 
questions they want answered, and demographers must understand the political 
ramifications of their research activities. The mortality levels caused by 
HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa are drastically reducing life expectancy even in 
populations where the proportion of infected adults has remained a stable 8%. 
New evidence points to reduced fertility among women with HIV, which means that 
surveillance studies that test pregnant women may seriously underestimate the 
prevalence of the disease. The reduction in fertility may fluctuate at different 
stages of the epidemic and appears to increase with time. These factors will 
result in considerable changes in population growth and structure. The 
surveillance system to track the spread of HIV in sub-Saharan Africa is out of 
date and must be improved by regular cross-sectional measuring of infection 
rates to provide needed data about the maturing epidemic and to determine if 
rising incidence is being masked by stable prevalence figures. Participants at a 
recent UNAIDS workshop concluded that the easiest way to determine incidence is 
to concentrate on the youngest age group, but this approach also poses problems. 
Many of the children orphaned by AIDS are currently being cared for in extended 
families, which function as they did during previous periods of high mortality. 
In some areas, however, the ability of these systems to absorb the orphans has 
been exceeded.

PMID: 12290343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Hist Fam. 1996;1(2):183-204. doi: 10.1016/s1081-602x(96)90006-8.

The evolution of mortality in an industrial town: Le Creusot in the nineteenth 
century.

Bourdelais P, Demonet M.

"The article examines the population of the town of Le Creusot [France]...with 
respect to the characteristics and evolution of mortality in the second third of 
the nineteenth century.... The authors analyze mortality statistics of Le 
Creusot in relation to other towns in the same department (Saone-et-Loire), to 
the neighboring city of Lyon, to another industrial town, Seraing, and with 
France as a whole. The effects of industrialization and the influx of labor on 
the mortality rate of Le Creusot appear to be undeniable. Life expectancy at 
birth among inhabitants of Le Creusot in 1836 was thus attained again only in 
1876, after forty years of worsening living and environmental conditions. Among 
the causes noted for excess mortality in industrial towns, it is important to 
distinguish those due to working conditions (accidents, fatigue) and the direct 
consequences of industrial activity (factory smoke, toxic waste) from those due 
to living and housing conditions and the state of public and private hygiene in 
the town."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/s1081-602x(96)90006-8
PMID: 12290357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Afr Health. 1995 Sep;17(6):22-3.

Population ageing: the implications for Africa.

Coombes Y.

PIP: Aging of the population will present formidable challenges to countries 
struggling with underdevelopment. Nigeria is expected to have one of the largest 
populations of elderly in the world (over 16 million people over the age of 60 
years by 2025). The task ahead is to alert the population to aging and public 
health concerns. There are difficulties in the lack of definition of aging as a 
point in time or in terms of function. In a rural community, many agricultural 
workers or high parity mothers may be functionally aged by the time they are 40. 
The problems faced by the elderly in rural areas are different from urban 
elderly due to differences in resource allocation. The needs of the elderly 
change with age and morbidity. Self-sufficiency is a requirement for the elderly 
regardless of housing arrangements. The elderly may appear to be in secure 
settings caring for grandchildren and receiving remittances, while in fact 
migrating parents may experience cost of living constraints, which prevent 
sending much money home. The elderly may have chronic health conditions or 
disabilities, which would make a long walk to a health unit difficult or 
impossible. Treatment for the elderly may be limited by a lack of pensions or 
trained personnel. The elderly may potentially be in a difficult emotional 
adjustment from independence to dependence. Trained health professionals, who 
understand chronic diseases, must dispense western scientific medicine with 
sensitivity and careful communication. Most health services are not prepared for 
services specific to the unique needs of the elderly but rather are more 
concerned with maternal and child health. Life expectancy has increased, and 
elderly people are the main users of health services.

PMID: 12290449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Dev Econ. 1994;44:131-46. doi: 10.1016/0304-3878(94)00009-3.

Population databases in development analysis.

Chamie J.

PIP: Population databases are very important in formulating analyses of social 
and economic change and development. Since such analyses are often the basis for 
policy making and program formulation, it is important to have a sound 
understanding of their strengths and limitations. This paper focuses upon 
databases which deal with population size, life expectancy at birth, and infant 
mortality. Considerable progress has been made in producing population databases 
over the last several decades, but many problems remain with regard to their 
comparability, completeness of coverage, and accuracy. Governmental and 
political circumstances greatly influence the availability and quality of 
population databases. Globally, the comparability of data remains a serious 
concern due to deviations from standard definitions. The completeness of 
coverage of databases among less developed countries varies widely by region, 
while the data for preparing estimates and assessing demographic trends are 
deficient and problematic. Technological advances and the repackaging of 
population databases have greatly advanced their production and availability, 
but confusion and ignorance have become widespread regarding the original source 
and nature of the data. Database users therefore too often undertake faulty 
analyses which lead to false conclusions.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3878(94)00009-3
PMID: 12290678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Asia Pac Popul J. 1995 Sep;10(3):5-16.

Sex preference in South Asia: Sri Lanka an outlier.

Abeykoon AT.

PIP: At a 1994 symposium on sex preference in Asia, represented countries were 
grouped as follows: a) rapid fertility decline, strong son preference, and 
abnormal sex ratio at birth (China, Taiwan, and the Republic of Korea); b) rapid 
fertility decline, no son preference, and normal sex ratio at birth (Indonesia, 
Sri Lanka, and Thailand); and c) slow fertility decline, strong son preference, 
and normal sex ratio at birth (Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan). This article 
reviews the factors responsible for strong son preference in Bangladesh, India, 
and Pakistan and the reasons for the lack of son preference in Sri Lanka. 
Abnormal sex ratios are attributed to sex-selective abortions. Sex preference in 
South Asia results in excessive mortality of female children. Mention is made of 
a higher mortality risk of daughters in Indian households with more older female 
children. Bairagi is cited for his evidence that in Bangladesh daughters having 
older sisters have a higher mortality risk. In Pakistan survey results indicate 
that sons are preferred. Numerous authors are cited for evidence suggesting that 
fertility might be lower if son preference were reduced. Rajaretnam and 
Deshpande are cited for findings that contraceptive prevalence in south India 
would increase by about 12% in high-prevalence areas and about 25% in 
low-prevalence areas in the absence of sex preference. Bourne and Walker and Das 
Gupta are identified as authors providing evidence that increased economic 
opportunities for women, increased women's status, and increased value placed on 
women's work would reduce the desire for sons. Cain argues for better old-age 
security and better access to food and medical care. Abeykoon has shown that 
weakened son preference in Sri Lanka occurred over a 20-year period as 
improvements were made in women's status. Parents in Sri Lanka give greater 
value to the small-family norm than to the sex of the child. A slight preference 
was found in 1975 and 1992. Discrimination in food and medical care in Sri Lanka 
was apparent only prior to 1962. Sri Lankan women have experienced rapid 
expansion of literacy and educational attainment, improved life expectancy, and 
wide economic involvement. Women in Sri Lanka are also less vulnerable to 
oppression within the family.

PMID: 12290695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Africa (Lond). 1986;56(2):210-27.

Against many odds: the dilemmas of women's self-help groups in Mbeere, Kenya.

Mwaniki N.

PIP: This article uses data collected through questionnaires and formal 
interviews to analyze women's self-help groups in Mbeere, Kenya. The discussion 
begins with a description of the geographic setting, which has low and 
unpredictable rainfall leading to periodic droughts and famine, and 
socioeconomic aspects of life in Mbeere, where women's status is defined by men 
who control important economic aspects of their lives, such as land tenure. In 
1982, there were 140 women's groups in Mbeere with memberships ranging from 
below 10 to over 60 (most 30-50). The groups are formally organized, with a 
leader, a secretary, and a treasurer. Most of the women in the groups are from 
the poor peasant socioeconomic class, and residence in the same neighborhood is 
an important membership criteria. All of the women surveyed were married and had 
children. The work schedules of the groups depend on the type of project and 
amount of work to be done. Activities fall into the categories of raising money 
(general work, cotton farming, basket making); generating income (raising 
livestock; building stores, lodgings, or social halls; or buying equipment like 
a truck or grain mill); and general development (water extension, homestead 
improvements, buying cows or goats for members, or building schools). Of 25 
groups sampled, 20 had a cash-crop garden cultivated on borrowed land. Groups 
gave members financial assistance (all members get equal treatment), labor 
assistance, and assistance in social matters through the dissemination of 
information and informal discussions. Groups face internal constraints in terms 
of the heavy burden women face to uphold their domestic and agricultural 
responsibilities, food shortages, water scarcity, and inadequate nutrition, poor 
organization, weak leadership, large allowances demanded by some group leaders, 
lack of support from husbands, criticisms from outside the groups, and an 
inability to identify the most viable projects. External constraints include 
lack of capital, lack of good roads, lack of advisors for feasibility studies of 
projects, lack of markets, and women's social subordination to men. The success 
of women's groups will ultimately depend upon the viability of the projects they 
embrace, and the Mbeere groups need expert income-generation advice. Broad 
reforms could abolish many of the forms of discrimination faced by women and 
improve their ability to contribute to the socioeconomic development and food 
production capacities of their communities.

PMID: 12290718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Perf Latinoam. 1995 Jun;4(6):149-79.

[The future population of Latin America].

[Article in Spanish]

Ordorica Mellado M.

PIP: Latin America has a population of 471 million, which grows at a rate of 
around 2% per year; if this does not change, the population will double in a 
period of 35 years. Life expectancy at birth was 68 years in the period 
1990-1995, it will be 73 years in the period 2020-2025, while the global birth 
rate of 3.1 in 1990-1995 will be reduced to 2.2 in 2020-2025. In the year 2000 
the area will have a population of 510.9 millions and in 2025 it will increase 
to 686.4 millions; 23.9% will be under the age of 15 years, 67% will be aged 
between 15 and 64 years, and 9% will be aged 65 years or over. These figures 
show the quick process of aging in the area's population as a result of the 
decrease in births. The region will face two fundamental demographic problems at 
the beginning of the third millennium: the aging of the population and the rapid 
increase of the working-age members of this population. (author's modified)

PMID: 12290738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Plan Parent Eur. 1995 Aug;24(2):31-3.

Family planning in Latvia: a blossoming flower.

Vjatere D.

PIP: The poor state of health care in Latvia is one of the effects of 50 years 
of Soviet occupation that must be overcome. Latvians have a life expectancy of 
only 73.8 years for women and 61.6 years for men, due largely to unhealthy 
habits, a sedentary lifestyle, and a lack of perceived personal responsibility 
for health. In the area of family planning (FP), negative growth was achieved in 
Latvia largely through the use of abortion (49.7/1000 women of reproductive 
age). It is estimated that only 15% of women use hormonal contraceptives or IUDs 
and another 15% use condoms. Most women rely on withdrawal or the calendar 
method. The use of hormonal methods has been inhibited by their expense and by 
the fact that doctors promote fears that such methods are harmful to women's 
health. A further problem is that sexually transmitted diseases are on the rise 
in Latvia, with reported cases of syphilis increasing 200% in a recent year and 
cases of chlamydia increasing 150%. This disease increase can be blamed on 
unrestricted sexual activity and on lack of interest in condoms. Work to improve 
FP and sexual health has been ongoing, but until the International Planned 
Parenthood Federation (IPPF) sponsored a seminar in 1993, the efforts were not 
coordinated. By February 1994, Latvia's Association for FP and Sexual Health was 
founded to educate the public about FP and sexual health. By May 1995, the 
Association published the first comprehensive pamphlet on contraception in 
Latvia. The Association also organizes information seminars for health care 
professionals and translated the IPPF's Medical and Service Delivery Guidelines 
for FP into Latvian. Also in 1995, a youth group was formed, and plans are 
underway to institute a telephone hot line. The Association's Sex Education 
Working Group is focused on including sex education in the general school 
curriculum. The Association operates with the moral support of the government 
and the enthusiastic backing of the people it serves.

PMID: 12290802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Chin J Popul Sci. 1995;7(3):201-12.

On sustainable development of population and national economy.

Tian X.

PIP: This article offers a strategy for achieving sustainable development of 
population and the national economy in China. It is argued that economic growth 
and population growth must be in balance and coordinated. In 1993 it was 
estimated that a national economic growth rate of 4.03-4.60% was needed in order 
to balance the natural population growth rate of 1.15% at the existing standard 
of living. When the national economy grows faster than population in the life 
expectancy time period, overpopulation can be checked. Population must be 
balanced with sufficient means for subsistence. The key measure of sustainable 
development is the ratio between the size of the working-age population and the 
means of production. The number of people in the labor force is positively 
related to fixed assets and negatively related to the labor force's technical 
equipment. China's problems include weak industrial fixed assets, a surplus 
labor force, and slow growth in industrial and agricultural productivity. 
Potential solutions are to shift employment from a cultivation-oriented rural 
economy to a diversified rural economy, to increase the pace of change to an 
industrial and commercial economy, and to increase the pace of change to 
nonmaterial production and to raising employment efficiency. Solutions are 
dependent upon improvement in the quality of population, which means increased 
levels of education. China still has 181,610,00 people who are illiterate or 
semi-illiterate among the working-age population. Sustainable development also 
relies on active promotion of social support for the elderly by a pension 
system, family support, and reemployment of the elderly. Surplus labor should be 
absorbed by the service industry. Population structure and economic development 
are more advanced in coastal areas that have 41% of total population. Inland 
areas should develop labor-intensive, technology-intensive, and 
investment-intensive industries. Northwest areas need an educated population, 
improved transportation, and a stronger economic base.

PMID: 12290856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Chin J Popul Sci. 1995;7(3):277-85.

A comparative study of demographic changes in China and India.

Sun H, Wu C.

PIP: This paper examines changes in fertility and mortality, compares these 
changes in China and India, attributes causes for the differences in patterns, 
and compares changes with other countries. Modern demographic changes began 
first in developed countries during the late 18th century. The Western changes 
included balances between fertility and mortality at low levels, life expectancy 
above 74 years, at least replacement level fertility, slow or no population 
growth, and an increased proportion of aged in the total population. After World 
War II, developing countries began their transitions. During 1950-55 demographic 
changes were similar between China, India, Asia, and Africa, while Europe was in 
the fourth stage. By 1980-85, China was at the fourth stage of transition. India 
and Asia were in the third stage, and Africa was only in the second stage. China 
achieved the rapid decline in mortality through the improvement of medical and 
health conditions. The different age structures in India and China illustrate 
the different patterns of demographic change. Both countries had similar age 
structures during the 1950s. The age pyramid in China reveals distinct patterns 
for those born prior to 1970 and those born after 1979. High fertility marked 
the 1970s and earlier cohorts, and low fertility was in evidence after 1979. The 
age pyramid remained unchanged in India after the 1950s. Both countries now face 
the need for effective population control. For China, the net increase is 16 
million a year, even though the country is approaching replacement level 
fertility. In India, a large proportion of the population is young, and 
population is still growing. China faces additional challenges due to rapid 
fertility decline and the growing number of elderly.

PMID: 12290863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Dirasat Sukkaniyah. 1994;21(5):133-55.

The effect of selected causes of death on the expectation of life at birth.

Hermis SR.

"This paper is an attempt to construct cause-deleted life tables [for Iraq]. 
Certain causes of death were selected to be deleted depending on the outcomes of 
a sample of 20,947 death certificates which represent 1 out of each 7 registered 
death events.... The paper reveals that the expectation of life is considerably 
affected by the hypothetical absence of these causes which leads to the 
importance of carrying out profound health studies concerning these selected 
causes of death." (SUMMARY IN ARA)

excerpt

PMID: 12290994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Chin J Popul Sci. 1995;7(4):285-98.

A study on the sex difference in mortality in China.

Hao H.

PIP: Analysis of gender differences in mortality and life expectancy in China is 
based on national and provincial life tables constructed from age-specific 
mortality data from the 1990 census. The underreporting of female infant 
mortality is viewed as reducing the gender gap in life expectancy at birth. 
Orthogonal regression techniques are used to determine regional gender 
differences. Findings indicate that female mortality rates were lower than male 
rates across the country and in individual regions. Female life expectancy was 
3.2 years higher than male life expectancy. During 1981-90 the average life 
expectancy increased from 66.4 to 67.7 years among males and from 69.4 to 70.9 
years for females. For each additional year in the combined life expectancy of 
both genders, the female life expectancy increased by an average of 0.2 years 
more than the male average increased. Life expectancy at birth was higher for 
females in all regions. Differences ranged from 5-6 years in Hainan and 
Guangdong provinces to 1 year in Xinjiang and Gansu provinces. The extent of sex 
differences in mortality and the average life expectancy in a region did not 
correspond completely to sex differences in mortality. The sex difference in 
mortality was related to the age-specific sex difference in mortality. Tibet had 
the lowest life expectancy and the highest sex differences in mortality. Hainan 
had one of the highest life expectancies and one of the highest sex differences. 
The geographic pattern of mortality reflected smaller gender differences in 
mortality in western and northern China and differences that favored women in 
the south. Female mortality was lower at most ages with the exception of 
infants. Female mortality was lower at elderly ages compared to elderly men. 
Reproductive age mortality dropped dramatically during 1982-90 compared to male 
mortality declines. During 1982-90 female infant mortality increased.

PMID: 12291083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Chin J Popul Sci. 1995;7(4):299-306.

Fertility decline and population aging in China.

Du P.

PIP: The author posits that population aging is a problem only when there is 
evidence of an unfavorable impact on society and the economy. The population age 
structure may change and the proportion of elderly may increase, but a problem 
arises only when the extent and pace of the impact is unacceptable. Slower 
growth in China has contributed to a gradual aging of the population. It is 
expected that around the turn of the century the population aged 65 years or 
older will comprise 7% of total population. Population aging results when the 
percentage of young people in the total population declines. During 1950-90 the 
number of Chinese children aged 0-14 years declined from 33.5% to 27.6% of total 
population. There was a 19.5% decline in the population aged under 15 years. 
Fertility decline had a greater impact on the proportion of elderly than 
mortality decline. The population aged 60 years and older increased from 7.5% to 
8.6% during 1950-90. Over four decades the number of persons aged 5-9 years 
increased 78.39%. With fertility stable at 1950 levels and mortality decline, 
the population aged 5-9 years would have increased 373.81% by 1990. With 
mortality stable at 1950 levels and fertility decline, the 5-9 age group would 
have increased only 16.85% by 1990. It is argued in a 1988 UN report on aging 
that the impact of fertility decline is more concentrated. Mortality decline 
affects every age group, so that little change in the total population age 
structure occurs. Fertility decline most heavily affects persons aged 0-14 
years, while mortality decline mostly affects the aged above 70 years. It is 
expected that fertility in China will decline to about 1.8 after 2030. At that 
time mortality decline and longer life expectancy will have a greater impact on 
population aging than at present. It is expected that during 1990-2030 the 
initial age structure will contribute the most to population aging.

PMID: 12291084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. AIDS Anal Afr. 1996 Jun;6(3):12-3.

AIDS and the orphan crisis in Zimbabwe.

Foster G.

PIP: Before AIDS, the number of orphans in most developing countries was 
decreasing due to improvements in life expectancy. Orphans were likely to be 
older than age five years and have lost a father. It was uncommon for a child to 
have lost both parents. This scenario no longer prevails. As growing numbers of 
young adults die, sibling- and grandmother-headed households are becoming 
increasingly common. A 1991 survey in Zimbabwe found that less than 0.5% of 
orphans were being cared for in orphanages. Once a grandmother dies who may have 
taken in her orphaned grandchildren, many older siblings opt to raise the 
family. Many children prefer to stay together as a family unit despite the 
inevitable hardship and obstacles they will encounter to survival. These 
families are weak, but surviving. The AIDS pandemic will likely cause a ten-fold 
rise in the number of maternal orphans. In Zimbabwe alone, it is possible that 
40% of children may have lost their parents within a decade.

PMID: 12291109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Popul Headl. 1996 Mar-Apr;(251):2.

Pakistan: focus on women's issues.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In April 1996 at the senior officials' segment of the 52nd Session of the 
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), a 
representative of Pakistan informed participants that population well-being 
efforts are part of the means used in implementing Pakistan's Social Action 
Programme. The Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs noted that US$3 
billion has been allocated to the Programme for implementation during the Eighth 
Five-Year Plan (1993-1998). The Programme aims to develop human resources and to 
improve the quality of life of the population, using life expectancy, access to 
primary health care, and literacy as indicators of quality of life. A key target 
group of the Programme is women. The Programme includes education, health, 
nutrition, training, and employment projects. In Pakistan, the mass media are 
contributing greatly in effecting the social change required to increase 
participation of women in economic activities.

PMID: 12291136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Popul Headl. 1996 Mar-Apr;(251):2.

Bangladesh indicators improving.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In April 1996, at the 52nd Session of the UN Economic and Social Commission 
for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the delegate from Bangladesh reported 
improvements in various demographic indicators for Bangladesh. Infant mortality 
and maternal mortality have fallen to 84/1000 and 4.5/1000, respectively, while 
life expectancy at birth has risen to 58 years. The Expanded Programme of 
Immunization and expanded use of oral rehydration therapy have played key roles 
in improving child survival. The contraceptive prevalence rate is at about 45%. 
The total fertility rate has decreased from 4.3 to 3.4. The Government of 
Bangladesh has an action plan to improve the status of women by developing or 
redirecting political, economic, and social processes and institutions to enable 
women to participate in decision making at the family, community, national, and 
international levels. The number of elderly is rising and is rather large in 
absolute terms; so the Ministry of Social Welfare is addressing problems the 
elderly encounter. The government's social development policies are geared to 
minimizing poverty, improving living standards, and developing human resources.

PMID: 12291137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Eur J Popul. 1995 Sep;11(3):261-73. doi: 10.1007/BF01264950.

Life expectancy at age 60--epidemiologic scenarios assuming delayed mortality 
for selected causes of death.

Kytir J, Prskawetz A.

"The present analysis offers a projection of life expectancy at advanced ages in 
Austria for the year 2010. To estimate the gains in life expectancy the 
Simultaneous Multiple Cause-Delay (SIMCAD) method is used. This model takes into 
account the epidemiological concept of an additional delay in the onset of 
particular chronic-degenerative diseases. While the results of the SIMCAD method 
vary only slightly on the whole from the official projection of life expectancy 
at age 60, the similarity between the two projections decreases steadily with 
increasing age. The SIMCAD model predicts higher gains in life expectancy for 
the oldest age-groups of the population than do the official statistics." 
(SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01264950
PMID: 12291203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Sociol Spectr. 1995 Jul;15(3):227-56. doi: 10.1080/02732173.1995.9982099.

Convergence in rural-urban patterns of nuptiality and mortality: a life table 
update.

Myers SM, Hastings DW.

"Based on 1979-1981 and 1989-1991 [U.S.] vital registration and 1980 and 1990 
census data, we construct increment-decrement life tables for rural and urban 
males and females. The analysis is centered on 1980 and 1990 and describes 
urban-rural differences in patterns of mortality and nuptiality by age and sex. 
Our research updates an earlier study that described urban-rural mortality and 
marital transition patterns for Tennessee, 1970. The 1980 and 1990 findings 
parallel the 1970 results. Rural women and men have shorter life expectancies; 
higher infant mortality rates; younger median ages of entry into first marriage, 
divorce, and widowhood; a greater proportion of their cohorts ever marrying; 
lower probabilities of divorce; and higher probabilities of widowhood than urban 
women and men. However, there was a decline in urban-rural differences from 
1970-1990. These changes suggest that urbanization, technological advances in 
communication and transportation, and the diffusion of urban lifestyles and 
values may have blurred the urban-rural distinction."

excerpt

