DOI: 10.1080/02732173.1995.9982099
PMID: 12291207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Stud Russ Econ Dev. 1995 Jan-Feb;6(1):35-45.

Russia: the demographic situation.

Vishnevskii AG.

PIP: This is a summary of the second annual report on the demographic situation 
in Russia prepared by the Center for Demography and Human Ecology in Moscow. The 
report examines such topics as population size, spatial distribution, and age 
composition; health, mortality, and life expectancy; population replacement; and 
internal and external migration.

PMID: 12291247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Genus. 1995 Jan-Jun;51(1-2):105-31.

[Concise measures of period fertility by birth order. An application to Italian 
data].

[Article in Italian]

De Simoni A.

"In recent studies several authors have shown how fertility tables and concise 
measures by birth order, strictly and exclusively related to the period 
fertility conditions, can be derived on the basis of parity progression 
rates.... The many indicators derivable from the fertility tables compiled as 
stated above are described systematically and completely in relation to their 
different features. On the basis of a 'complementary' model [I show] a further 
category of concise measures referring to fertility tables which are formally 
identical to the classical life tables with regard to each order of birth. The 
study includes applications to concrete data concerning North Central and 
Southern divisions of Italy (1980-1982 and 1988-1990)." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12291257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Genus. 1995 Jan-Jun;51(1-2):19-43.

An alternative procedure for fitting relational model life tables.

Zaba B, Paes N.

"The paper considers the problem of fitting a relational model life table to 
mortality data which does not include reliable estimates of infant and child 
mortality. This type of data could arise from indirect estimation of adult 
mortality using orphanhood or widowhood, or from adjustment of incomplete 
registration data using growth balance methods in a population recently 
de-stabilized by falls in fertility. The proposed fitting technique can give 
equal weight to all the age specific mortality risk information available, 
rather than giving more weight to the information for younger ages, as is the 
case with the traditional method. An application to Brazilian data is 
presented." (SUMMARY IN ITA AND FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12291261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Genus. 1995 Jan-Jun;51(1-2):45-67.

Two regional (rural-urban) life tables for India.

Nath DC, Choudhury L.

"This paper proposes to construct, for India, a two-regional life table, 
considering two regions viz., rural and urban. Such a table provides information 
on the probabilities of survivorship and migration, as well as life expectancy 
by age, region and place of birth and in particular information on: (1) The 
probability that an individual living in a rural area at age x will be living in 
an urban area at age y. (2) Life expectancy at birth in a rural area, and the 
number of years on average this individual may live in an urban area. The aim 
here is to compare and contrast rural to urban and urban to rural migration 
probabilities by sex and age for the years 1971, 1981 and 1991, and provide the 
underlying reasons. Region-specific life expectancy is also compared for these 
years." (SUMMARY IN ITA AND FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12291262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Post Sov Geogr. 1995 Dec;36(10):644-8.

Is Russia's demographic situation improving?

Heleniak T.

"Since the Russian economy recently has shown sings of stabilization, there now 
is evidence that demographic trends are beginning to improve somewhat. Although 
the population declined by 164,200, to 148.1 million at the beginning of 1996, 
the release of new statistical compendia by the Russian statistical agency 
(Goskomstat Rosii) in 1995 and early 1996 makes it possible to identify several 
positive trends.... Life expectancy increased for the first time since 1985. The 
infant mortality rate declined for the second year in a row. The crude death 
rate declined for the first time in a decade. The birth rate remained at about 
the same level for the third consecutive year. The rate of natural increase 
(births minus deaths), although still negative, recorded a moderate increase."

excerpt

PMID: 12291375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Chin J Popul Sci. 1996;8(1):41-9.

Mortality differential for various levels of education in China.

Xie W.

PIP: This article analyzes mortality differences by gender, age, and educational 
level in China. Data were obtained from the 1990 Census. Standardization of data 
for the crude death rate changed the order of mortality from low to high: 
college and above, senior high school, junior high school, primary school, and 
illiteracy. The standardized crude death rate for the male illiterate population 
is, respectively, 3.5, 2.2, 1.6, and 1.3 times that of college educated, senior 
high educated, junior high educated, and primary educated persons. Female 
illiterate crude death rates are, respectively, 3.1, 1.9, 1.6, and 1.2 times 
higher. China requires 9 years of education. Illiterates are likely to suffer 
from defects or illnesses that prevent admission to primary schools and lead to 
a much higher mortality risk. Socioeconomic influences on mortality are complex. 
Education, occupation, and income are highly correlated. This analysis is 
limited to education due to census data limitations. Changes in death rates 
among persons aged 15-85 years were grouped as 1) stable with little change 
(15-39 years), 2) the slow rising stage (40-59 years), and 3) the rapidly rising 
stage (over 60 years). Females showed a lower death rate at all ages and 
educational levels. The mortality differences by educational level and age 
specific mortality appear to increase with increasing age. The use of the 
relative mortality ratio (RMR) shows that mortality risk decreases with age. 
Both measures are used in the analysis. RMRs of illiterate and primary school 
educated populations aged 15-29 years were higher than higher educated 
populations. RMRs of senior high and college education populations aged 20-29 
years were higher than lower educated populations. The differences in life 
expectancy resulting from different educational levels may decrease with age in 
part as a result from biological factors.

PMID: 12291452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Chin J Popul Sci. 1996;8(1):69-75.

The impact of boy preference on fertility in China.

Wang Y.

PIP: Data from the 1988 Chinese sample fertility and birth control surveys are 
used to quantify the impact of the sex of children already born on future 
fertility behavior and to determine the impact of son preference on China's 
future fertility. Fertility data are confined to fertility during 1980-87. 
Analysis involves use of life table techniques and the Arnold-Index method. Life 
table techniques are used to calculate the cumulative probability for having the 
next child. The Arnold-Index is used to measure the magnitude of the effect of 
existing children's sex on future reproduction, based on assumptions about 
contraceptive use. Findings from the life table method indicate that women with 
a first girl child were significantly more likely to bear a second child sooner 
than women with a first boy child. The fastest growing slope was among women who 
had three girls. The lowest slope was among women who had two girls and one boy. 
Findings affirm that boy preference increases China's fertility. Findings from 
the Arnold-Index indicate that the total observed cumulative percentages for 
having the next child by the end of the 72nd month was 63.4% for women whose 
first child was a girl compared with 55.4% for women whose first child was a 
boy. Among women who had one, two, or three children, 48.3% gave birth again 
compared with the expected percentage of 41.9%, if sex preference did not exist. 
In the analysis of women who already had two children, findings indicate that 
only 34% gave birth to another child compared with the expected percentage of 
24.4%, if sex preference did not exist.

PMID: 12291455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Asia Pac Popul J. 1995 Dec;10(4):23-38.

Breast-feeding in Bangladesh: patterns and impact on fertility.

Mannan HR, Islam MN.

PIP: Data from the 1989 Bangladesh Fertility Survey and actuarial life table 
methods are used to estimate breast feeding differences by other socioeconomic, 
health, and demographic characteristics. Findings indicate that the average 
breast feeding duration for surviving children was 28.2 months (27.1 months for 
urban women and 28.6 months for rural women). Breast feeding duration was longer 
among mothers with no schooling compared to mothers or fathers with a higher 
education. Older mothers had different breast feeding patterns than younger 
mothers. Muslim women breast fed for 28.1 months; non-Muslim women did so for 
18.8 months. Working women breast fed for 19.0 months compared to 28.1 months 
among non-working women. Duration of breast feeding increased with increased 
parity. Breast feeding duration averaged 17.5 months among wives of service 
workers and business men, 28.3 months among wives of production workers, and 
29.0 and 27.9, respectively, for wives of farmers and land-owners. Contraceptive 
use was unrelated to breast feeding duration. Women who possessed specific 
household items had a shorter breast feeding period. Women who were visited by 
health workers had a longer breast feeding duration. There were only marginal 
differences between durations by whether husbands controlled health decision 
making or whether there was joint decision making. Gender was unrelated to 
duration. Differences in the significance between variables and survival are 
reported. Multivariate findings among women who ceased breast feeding indicate 
that breast feeding had a positive significant effect on amenorrhea and directly 
determined both closed and open birth intervals. The effect of breast feeding on 
amenorrhea was stronger in the closed interval. Breast feeding explained 18.9% 
of variation in postpartum amenorrhea (9.8% in the current open interval). 86.9% 
of the variance was explained by place of residence, maternal education and age, 
parity, maternal work status, and every use of contraception.

PMID: 12291530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Asia Pac Popul J. 1995 Dec;10(4):3-22.

Infant feeding practices in Viet Nam.

Truong SA, Ngo TT, Knodel J, Le H, Tran TT.

PIP: Data from the 1988 Vietnam Demographic and Health Survey and the 1994 
Demographic Survey are used to determine the trends in breast feeding and 
amenorrhea among ever married women of reproductive age. Life table procedures 
are used to calculate monthly probabilities of weaning. Then five month moving 
averages of equal weight are computed for observed monthly probabilities of 
weaning. The smoothed probabilities are used to calculate the cumulative 
proportion weaned at successive monthly ages. Breast feeding is universal in 
Vietnam. Infants are put to the breast earlier when delivery occurs at home. 
Almost all children are breast fed through the first six months, and 80% are 
breast fed for a year. The median duration was 15.3 months in the 1988 survey 
and 15.9 months in the 1994 survey based on life table methods. Calculations 
based on current status methods were slightly higher for both years. Rural women 
tended to breast feed longer than urban women. Children who had mothers working 
in agriculture were breast fed longer than children whose mothers had other 
occupations. Socioeconomic factors did not correlate well with breast feeding 
duration. Findings indicate that over 66% of breast fed infants aged under 3 
months were given plain water, and over 90% of infants aged 3-5 months were 
given plain water. Fresh cow's milk is not given to Vietnamese infants. Juices 
were given to children aged older than 6 months. Sugar water was given to 
younger infants. The introduction of supplemental liquids was more common in 
urban areas. Few infants during the first few months of life were given solid or 
mushy foods. But by 4 months of age, 50% of infants were given solid or mushy 
foods, and the practice was more common in rural areas. The urban-rural gap 
closed by 6 months of age. Over 90% of infants received solids at 9 months. It 
is expected that modernization will negatively impact on breast feeding.

PMID: 12291531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Asia Pac Popul J. 1996 Mar;11(1):3-24.

Family welfare programme and population stabilization strategies in India.

Zodgekar AV.

PIP: India is currently the second most populous country in the world. 
Population is likely to reach 1 billion by the turn of the century at the 
present rate of growth. This article provides an overview of the present and 
past demographic context, population program strategies, family welfare program 
achievements and deficits, program approaches, and fertility determinants. The 
author suggests that it is time for the family welfare program to shift 
directions. The emphasis of family welfare programs should focus on improving 
the quality of people's lives rather than on demographic targets or on birth 
control in a very narrow sense. Quality of life improvements would entail 
increased literacy, a higher status for women, reduced infant mortality, and 
reduced poverty. The responsibility for family planning must be placed on 
individual families and not government effort. In order to achieve almost 
replacement level fertility by 2010, contraceptive prevalence must increase from 
the present 44% to at least 70%. Increased contraceptive prevalence will not 
occur without the adoption of the small family norm and improvement in 
socioeconomic conditions. Family planning programs and services must be 
accessible at the village level. Sustained fertility decline is achieved by 
sustained effort and not short-term drastic actions. This article reviews the 
basic philosophy of the family welfare program, evaluates the effectiveness of 
the program in achieving fertility decline, and assesses the role of development 
and other fertility determinants, such as women's status, in reducing fertility.

PMID: 12291554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Popul Today. 1996 Sep;24(9):7.

Spotlight: Burundi.

Lim A.

PIP: This article summarizes demographic information on Burundi. Population in 
mid-1996 was 5.9 million. There were 46 births/1000 population and 16 
deaths/1000 population. Infant mortality was 102/1000 live births. The rate of 
natural increase was 3% per year. The total fertility rate was 6.6 births/woman. 
1% of married women used modern contraceptives. Life expectancy was 48 years for 
men and 52 years for women. In this country of 9900 sq. miles of land area most 
of the people live in the western region, which has fertile volcanic soil and a 
plateau area. Population density is 600 people/sq. mile. 6% live in urban areas. 
85% of the population are Hutu (a Bantu ethnic group) and 14% are Tutsi (a 
Hamitic group); 1% are Twa or pygmies. About 3000 Europeans and 2000 South 
Asians live in Burundi. Government is dominated by the Tutsi minority. The 
country achieved independence from Belgium in 1962. The country has experienced 
civil strife between the Hutus and the Tutsis since the assassination by Tutsi 
troops in 1993 of the first democratically elected Hutu president. An estimated 
100,000 refugees fled the country in 1996. 67% of the population are Christians, 
and 32% practice indigenous religions; 1% are Muslim. The economy is heavily 
dependent on coffee exports. About 50% of children aged under 5 are 
malnourished. Maternal mortality is an estimated 1300 deaths/100,000 live 
births. AIDS is expected to reduce total population by 4% by 2005. 85% of rural 
population and 55% of urban population are below the absolute poverty level. 50% 
of rural population have access to safe water and sanitation.

PMID: 12291558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Scand J Dev Altern. 1995 Mar-Jun;14(1-2):149-60.

Population growth and development: the Kenyan experience.

Nyamwange M.

PIP: Rapid population growth in Kenya and high fertility impacts negatively on 
economic development. The growth and high fertility results in declines in gross 
national product, per capita food consumption, and land quality; a high 
dependency ratio; urban crowding; and inadequate health systems. East Africa has 
the highest crude birth rates in Africa, and Kenya has the highest birth rate of 
54/1000 population in East Africa. The African crude death rate is 50% higher 
than the world average, but Kenya's death rate is the lowest in East Africa and 
comparable to North American and European death rates. Kenya has the highest 
rate of natural increase of about 4%. Population growth rates rose over the 
decades. Kenya's average population density is well above the sub-Saharan 
African average and much lower than very high density countries. Population is 
unequally distributed. Regional densities are widely divergent, and the highest 
densities in Western province are well above densities in Rwanda and Burundi. 
Urban growth has increased, as has migration to urban areas. Nairobi has 57% of 
urban population. Improved health and nutrition have contributed to increased 
life expectancy. The desired family size is large. The impact of demographic 
factors on economic conditions is evident in the decline in gross national 
product per capita growth to under 1% during 1972-88. A slight upswing occurred 
during 1988-93, but other crises are emerging. Food production has not kept pace 
with population growth. Production has been low due to serious land degradation, 
short fallow periods, and traditional farming practices. Population pressure has 
forced families to shift agriculture onto marginal lands, and desertification 
has increased. A growing proportion of the population is unemployed or 
underemployed. Population programs should address the underlying conditions for 
fertility decline.

PMID: 12291578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Popul Today. 1996 Nov;24(11):7.

Spotlight: Nicaragua.

Adkins-blanch S.

PIP: Nicaragua's previously moderate population growth accelerated after 1940 
because of better health care and sanitary practices. Today the death rate is 
6/1000, and birth rates remain high at 33/1000; natural increase equals 2.7% per 
year. Life expectancy for men and women is 62 and 68, respectively. 45% of the 
population is younger than 15 years. The total fertility rate is 4.6. It is 
higher among women with no formal education (6.9), and among rural women (6.4). 
53% of women are pregnant or have at least 1 child by age 19. 35% of births 
occur within 2 years of an earlier birth. Although 97% of women aged 15-49 know 
about at least 1 form of modern contraception, only 49% who were in a union 
during 1992-1993 used a contraceptive. Rural women, especially those with lower 
educational status, have the least experience with contraceptives; 63% of urban 
women report contraceptive use, in comparison to 33% of rural women. Mortality 
rates for infants (49/1000) and children (72/1000) have decreased. The main 
causes of infant death are trauma or asphyxia at birth, and complications 
associated with premature or low-weight babies; those for children are 
dehydration (from diarrhea), acute respiratory infections, meningitis, and 
illnesses preventable with vaccines. About 75% of children are immunized, 
usually at a later age than recommended. The geography, climate, and ethnic 
composition of Nicaragua, and recent events affecting its economy are briefly 
described.

PMID: 12291742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Pol Popul Rev. 1995;(7):73-102.

The key phases of the European health transition.

Caselli G.

"This paper will attempt to analyse the health transition [in Europe] from 
1910.... The different steps in mortality trends, both in quantitative terms and 
with regard to structural changes by age and cause, will also be analysed and 
compared where possible to the far reaching changes which marked the history of 
mortality in Europe. An attempt at synthesis will be performed, using the data 
on life expectancy at birth in 1910 onwards until recent times. Particular focus 
will be placed on the more significant stages of the decline in mortality by age 
and the cause of death...."

excerpt

PMID: 12291783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Sociol Soc. 1995 Autumn;27(2):27-42.

[From the transformation of age groups to the evolution of social 
relationships].

[Article in French]

Pitrou A.

"In Western societies, change in family behaviour patterns, increased life 
expectancy, transformations in the socioeconomic environment and in culture have 
effected important modifications in the 'age pyramid', the significance of which 
has fed the debate between experts who have recorded them and who have 
anticipated their foreseeable consequences. These consequences are examined here 
in the light of some of their effects on social ties, inside the family and on 
the community level: the recomposition of the deviations between generations, 
the appearance of a pre-adult stage, the growth of concomitant responsibilities 
in relation to ascendants and descendants within family networks, potential 
concurrent intergenerational conflicts, and the aging of the social fabric [at] 
the community level. These phenomena in full evolution are a particular 
incentive to reinforcing the dialogue between demography and sociology." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12291901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1994 Dec 2;28(2):82-103.

The impact of socioeconomic setting and program effort on contraceptive 
prevalence in the Egyptian governorates.

Khalifa MA, Abdel Moneim A, Zohry AG.

PIP: The authors measured the impact of the socioeconomic setting (SES) and the 
family planning program effort upon variations in the contraceptive prevalence 
rate (CPR) at the governorate level during 1992. Indexes are developed to 
measure the SES and the family planning program effort at the governorate level. 
The study was also conducted to measure the extent to which the SES and the 
program effort affect CPRs at the governorate level and to measure the impact of 
the SES on the program effort. The following indicators were chosen to use in 
building the SES index: population literacy rate, primary and secondary school 
enrollment ratios, life expectancy at birth, infant mortality rate, per capita 
income, percent of the population working in agriculture, and the percent of the 
population living in urban areas. The number of governorate population council 
meetings; the number of women per family planning center; the number of women 
per pharmacy; the percent of women who have family planning services in their 
localities; the number of information, education, and communication hours per 
1000 women/year; the number of home visits per woman; record keeping and 
statistical reporting; social marketing; and the private sector were chosen as 
indicators in building the family planning program effort index.

PMID: 12291981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Vopros Stat. 1996;(8):58-60.

[Concerning demographic crises and catastrophes].

[Article in Russian]

Kvasha A.

PIP: The author analyzes trends in mortality and life expectancy in Russia from 
the 1960s to the present. Emphasis is on the causes of the decline in male life 
expectancy.

PMID: 12292005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Technol Forecast Soc Change. 1996 May;52(1):1-30. doi: 
10.1016/0040-1625(96)00001-7.

Human population dynamics revisited with the logistic model: how much can be 
modeled and predicted?

Marchetti C, Meyer PS, Ausubel JH.

"We revive the logistic model, which was tested and found wanting in 
early-20th-century studies of aggregate human populations, and apply it instead 
to life expectancy (death) and fertility (birth)....For death...the logistic 
portrays the situation crisply. Human life expectancy is reaching the 
culmination of a two-hundred year-process that forestalls death until about 80 
for men and the mid 80s for women. No breakthroughs in longevity are in sight 
unless genetic engineering comes to help. For birth, the logistic covers 
quantitatively its actual morphology. However, because we have not been able to 
model this essential parameter in a predictive way over long periods, we cannot 
say whether the future of human population is runaway growth or slow 
implosion... From a niche point of view, resources are the limits to numbers, 
and access to resources depends on technologies. The logistic makes clear that 
for homo faber, the limits to numbers keep shifting. These moving edges may most 
confound forecasting the long-run size of humanity."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/0040-1625(96)00001-7
PMID: 12292026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. AIDS Anal Afr. 1997 Feb;7(1):1, 3.

Zambia measures the impact.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The average life expectancy in Zambia will drop from 51 years to about 45 
years by the year 2002 as a result of HIV/AIDS. The domestic gross product will 
also fall significantly because of the loss of skilled workers and health costs. 
These are the estimations of the Zambian Ministry of Health, which also 
estimates that between 300 and 400 people are newly infected with HIV every day 
in the country. Adults progressing to full-fledged AIDS are expected to increase 
from 10,000 in 1990 to over 75,000 by the year 2000. Women are 1.4 times more 
likely to become infected with HIV than men. Although sexual relations with 
female students by male teachers are prohibited by the professional code of 
conduct, some teachers have such relations. This is alarming in view of the 
findings of a study showing that 40% of teachers in the study group were 
infected with HIV. About 40% of girls are sexually active by the age of 15, 
therefore such young people are targets of AIDS-related educational services. 
Many older infected students will die before they can pay back their student 
loans. The impact of AIDS at the workplace is also distressing, as a unionized 
worker with AIDS could go on sick leave for half a year at the employer's 
expense. The cost of replacing sick workers is also high with additional delays 
in finding replacements. The loss of key individuals such as innovators may even 
seriously set back a firm by reducing sales, increasing the costs of operation, 
and forcing the restructuring of credit arrangements.

PMID: 12292056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. IIPS Newsl. 1996 Jul;37(1-3):2-6.

Convocation address.

Zakaria R.

PIP: By means of this graduation address at the International Institute for 
Population Sciences (IIPS) in Bombay, the Chancellor of Urdu University voiced 
his concerns about overpopulation in India. During the speaker's tenure as 
Health Minister of Maharashtra, he implemented a sterilization incentive program 
that resulted in the state's having the best family planning (FP) statistics in 
India for almost 10 years. The incentive program, however, was misused by 
overenthusiastic officials in other states, with the result that the FP program 
was renamed the Family Welfare Programme. Population is growing in India because 
of improvements in health care, but the population education necessary to change 
fertility will require more time than the seriousness of the population problem 
allows. In the longterm, poverty and illiteracy must be addressed to control 
population. In the meanwhile, the graduate program at the IIPS should be 
expanded to include an undergraduate program, marriage age laws should be 
enforced, and misconceptions about religious objections to FP must be addressed. 
India can not afford to use the measures forwarded by developed countries to 
control population growth. India must integrate population control efforts with 
the provision of health care because if population continues to grow in the face 
of reduced infant mortality and longer life expectancy, future generations will 
be forced to live in a state of poverty and economic degradation.

PMID: 12292086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Hong Kong Mon Dig Stat. 1996 Oct:1-19.

Demographic trends in Hong Kong 1986-1995.

[Article in Chinese, English]

Hong Kong. Census and Statistics Department.

PIP: Population trends in Hong Kong for the period from 1986 to 1995 are 
described. There are sections on population size and growth, age structure, sex 
structure, fertility, mortality, life expectancy, and marriage.

PMID: 12292218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1996 Jan;51(4):32-46.

[Life tables by marital status: 1990].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Life tables are presented for Japan by sex and marital status using data 
from the 1990 census.

PMID: 12292246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1996 Mar;11(1):109-14. doi: 10.1007/BF00116267.

Aging trends -- the Philippines.

Biddlecom AE, Domingo LJ.

PIP: This report presents a description of the trends in growth of the elderly 
population in the Philippines and their health, disability, education, work 
status, income, and family support. The proportion of elderly in the Philippines 
is much smaller than in other Southeast Asian countries, such as Singapore and 
Malaysia. The elderly population aged over 65 years increased from 2.7% of total 
population in 1990 to 3.6% in 1990. The elderly are expected to comprise 7.7% of 
total population in 2025. The proportion of elderly is small due to the high 
fertility rate. Life expectancy averages 63.5 years. The aged dependency ratio 
will double from 5.5 elderly per 100 persons aged 15-64 years in 1990 to 
10.5/100 in 2025. A 1984 ASEAN survey found that only 11% of elderly rated their 
health as bad. The 1990 Census reveals that 3.9% were disabled elderly. Most 
were deaf, blind, or orthopedically impaired. 16% of elderly in the ASEAN survey 
reported not seeing a doctor even when they needed to. 54% reported that a 
doctor was not visited due to the great expense. In 1980, 67% of men and 76% of 
women aged over 60 years had less than a primary education. The proportion with 
a secondary education in 2020 is expected to be about 33% for men and 33% for 
women. 66.5% of men and 28.5% of women aged over 60 years were in the formal 
labor force in 1990. Women were less likely to receive cash income from current 
jobs or pensions. 65% of earnings from older rural people was income from 
agricultural production. 60% of income among urban elderly was from children, 
and 23% was from pensions. Family support is provided to the elderly in the form 
of coresidence. In 1988, 68% of elderly aged over 60 years lived with at least 
one child. Retirement or nursing homes are uncommon. The Philippines 
Constitution states that families have a duty to care for elderly members.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00116267
PMID: 12292274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Mong J Demogr. 1996 Oct;1(1):43-51.

Projection of population of Mongolia.

Gankhuyag D.

PIP: Several different scenarios are used to project population for Mongolia 
during 1989-99 and during 1999-2019. The author states that the most important 
determinant of future population size and structure is fertility, followed by 
mortality. Mongolia is expected to have a population in the year 2019 ranging 
from 2.97 million to 3.07 million, depending upon the assumptions made. Total 
population in 1995 was 2.34 million. Population density is one of the lowest in 
the world. The crude death rate, beginning with the 1960s, showed the most 
significant decline from 12.3 to 7.3. Life expectancy at birth has made only 
modest gains over the past 25 years. Mortality is extremely high for infants and 
children. Mortality during the adult years is high for women and low for men. 
The most significant feature of fertility decline since 1989 is the abortion 
rate, which was 62.9/1000 women and 511.5/1000 births. The size of the 
population at the turn of the century is expected to be under 2.5 million. Major 
changes will take place in the future age structure of population. There will be 
an increased proportion of population aged 15-64 years and a decline in the 
proportion of people of younger age. The most probable scenario assumes a 
modified exponential trend to mortality and a linear change in fertility from 
2.3 children/woman in 1999 to 1.92 in 2019. The annual growth in the labor force 
is expected to be 3.28% annually until the first decades after the year 2000, 
when growth will slow to 2.6% annually. Population growth will be 1.2%. The 
proportion not in the labor force will decline from 32.2% to 28.1% during 
1989-2019. The impact of future population size on education is also estimated 
by educational level, enrollment rate, teachers, and classrooms.

PMID: 12292309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. AIDS Wkly Plus. 1997 Jun 30:23-4.

HIV / AIDS takes toll in Mozambique.

[No authors listed]

PIP: More than 985,000 Mozambican adults are estimated to have been infected 
with HIV. At the end of 1994, Mozambique had reported 826 cases of AIDS to the 
World Health Organization (WHO). However, the country's health officials now say 
that 37,000 people died of AIDS-related illnesses up to 1996. The Health 
Ministry has reported that more than 146,000 children had been orphaned due to 
AIDS through December 1996, and that there could be as many as 400,000 orphans 
in the country by the year 2000. This increase in the number of orphans in 
Mozambique may result in an increase in the number of street children and child 
laborers. The director of the National STD/AIDS Control Program argues that life 
expectancy in Mozambique would have reached 53 years by the end of the century 
in the absence of HIV/AIDS. However, with AIDS, the current life expectancy of 
46.4 years will probably not increase by the year 2000. Unless measures are 
taken to prevent the spread of HIV, the extent of HIV infection could reach 
levels experienced in South Africa, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, and Tanzania.

PMID: 12292417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Popul Today. 1997 May;25(5):7.

Spotlight: Oman.

Roudi F.

PIP: Halfway through 1997, Oman had a population of 2.3 million growing via 
natural increase at a rate of 3.4% annually. Birth and death rates in the 
country are 38 and 4 per 1000 population, respectively. Oman encompasses 82,030 
sq. miles. 27 infants die in Oman per 1000 live births, the average woman bears 
6.2 children, and life expectancy is 69 and 73 years for men and women, 
respectively. 97% of ever-married women know of at least one contraceptive 
method, and the rate of contraceptive prevalence among married women increased 
from 9% in 1987 to 28% in 1995, 21% of which is modern methods. The oil boom of 
the 1970s brought wealth to Oman, driving per capita gross national product from 
$370 in 1973 to $6200 in 1982. The economy is based largely upon the 
government-controlled petroleum industry, which accounts for 80% of revenues. 
Two-thirds of the world's crude petroleum shipped by sea passes by Oman through 
the Strait of Hormuz, giving Oman disproportionately large geopolitical 
importance. Foreigners largely from India, Pakistan, and the Philippines 
comprise more than half of the country's labor force. More than 80% of primary 
school-age children are enrolled in school, with increasing numbers of Omani 
women also attending school.

PMID: 12292419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. AIDS Wkly Plus. 1997 Jun 9-16:19.

Cuba shows jump in HIV positives.

[No authors listed]

Cuba experienced a substantial increase in the number of HIV cases in 1996 due 
primarily to a growth of foreign tourism and an increase in prostitution, health 
officials said. The Juventud Rebelde newspaper said that since HIV/AIDS testing 
began in 1985, government-run hospitals and clinics have detected 1609 
HIV-positive cases. In 1995 the total was reported at 1196, meaning that 413 new 
cases were detected in 1996. This compared with only 97 new cases reported 
during 1995. HIV infection among the island's 11 million inhabitants has 
remained relatively low due to a massive testing program and a public health 
infrastructure that provides universal and free medical treatment. Cuba was a 
pioneer in the use of interferon on those testing HIV-positive. Cuba produces 
its own interferon, which prolongs the life expectancy of patients, and also 
reagents for AIDS testing. There are special sanitariums for AIDS patients in 
most of Cuba's 12 provinces. Cuban adults who test HIV-positive are required to 
enter the sanitarium in a policy reminiscent of the way tuberculosis patients 
were tested in the US earlier in this century. Officials said the isolation of 
patients in sanitariums has been somewhat relaxed over past years by introducing 
greater flexibility in allowing persons who are considered reliable to live at 
home or make prolonged visits.

full text

PMID: 12292465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Popul Headl. 1997 Mar-Apr;(257):7.

Successfully meeting population goals. Islamic Republic of Iran.

[No authors listed]

The Islamic Republic of Iran has achieved success in attaining several 
population goals noted H.E. A. Arabmazar, head of that country's delegation to 
the 53rd session of the Commission. During the last decade "the infant mortality 
rate declined from 44/1000 to 26/1000 live births. Life expectancy rose from 61 
to 68 years and the literacy rate increased from 62.2% to 85%," he informed the 
Commission. Further, the population growth rate has declined from 3.2% to 1.7%, 
he added. Another Iranian representative at the Senior Officials segment of the 
meeting said that poverty alleviation measures implemented in recent years by 
the Government have dramatically reduced the incidence of poverty. The number of 
people living below the poverty line has fallen to 17% of the total population 
compared with 47% at the end of the decade of the 1970s. Among the measures 
implemented by the country is the provision of health care, including a very 
successful family planning program. Others are human resources development and 
creating productive employment opportunities. "Sustained employment is a major 
means of poverty alleviation," said the Iranian delegate. "It is essential that 
programs of human resources development aim at enabling the poor to become 
qualified for employment opportunities. Moreover, greater attention should be 
given to the expansion and improvement of social services and the empowerment 
and capability building of the poor." Currently, a poverty alleviation bill is 
being discussed by the Parliament and, if it is ratified, will be implemented 
from 1997.

full text

PMID: 12292473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Notas Poblacion. 1996 Jun;24(63):39-60.

[The relationship between years of life lost and life expectancy: applications 
to the analysis of mortality].

[Article in Spanish]

Bocco M.

"This paper presents a new, continuous, version of the index of years of life 
lost (YLL) in the population, distinguishing different causes of death. Also, it 
shows the mathematical relationship between the YLL and temporary life 
expectancies in the discrete and continuous cases....The model is applied to the 
analysis of mortality of the province of Cordoba, Argentina, during 1947-1991." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12292483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Notas Poblacion. 1996 Jun;24(63):7-38.

[The use of years of life lost for measuring the level and change of mortality].

[Article in Spanish]

Arriaga EE.

"The use of the new index of years of life lost allows us to relate mortality by 
age and causes of death to the change of the life expectancy, at birth or 
between any given ages. This index replaces the use of the multiple decrement 
life tables for analyzing the impact of the change in mortality by age and cause 
of death on the life expectancies....The article presents the theoretical 
derivation of the index, some examples of its use, and a detailed calculation." 
Examples provided include Mexico, Chile, and Argentina. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12292485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Maandstat Bevolking. 1997 Jan;45(1):6-12.

[Population forecasts 1996: less population growth, increased aging].

[Article in Dutch]

De Beer J.

"According to the new national population forecasts for the Netherlands for the 
period 1996-2050, the population size will continue to grow for another three 
decades. It will reach a maximum of 17.2 million, lower than the maximum 
according to the previous population forecasts.... The reason for this lower 
growth is that the assumption with respect to the future level of fertility is 
revised downwards.... Another adjustment of the forecasts is the assumption that 
life expectancy at birth will continue to increase until 2050, whereas in the 
previous forecasts life expectancy was held constant after 2010.... As a 
consequence of these revised assumptions the percentage of elderly people will 
increase more strongly." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12292510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Finance Dev. 1997 Jun:46-8.

Education and health care in the Caribbean.

Swaroop V.

PIP: Primary and secondary education and preventive health care are essential to 
the well-being of the poor in developing countries. Average expenditures on 
education and health care as a percentage of the gross domestic product in 
Caribbean countries exceed those in other developing countries. Such investment 
has resulted in high literacy rates and steady declines in infant mortality. 
Barbados, which has provided free and universal primary and secondary education 
since 1985, ranks first among developing countries in human development 
indicators (e.g., life expectancy and income). There are concerns, however, that 
the poor are not benefiting from this public sector investment. Government 
subsidies for tertiary-level services (e.g., university education and 
hospital-based curative care) disproportionately benefit higher-income urban 
families who could afford to pay a substantial portion of the cost of such 
services. Although primary and secondary school attendance rates are impressive 
in Caribbean countries, schools in rural areas tend to provide poor instruction 
and lack appropriate educational materials. Public sector funding should focus 
on basic services to maximize the returns to society. If the public sector is 
the primary provider of tertiary services, charges should be introduced to 
facilitate cost recovery from high-income users.

PMID: 12292553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Afr Link. 1996 Apr:19.

Country profile: Mali.

[No authors listed]

PIP: More than half of Mali's population is under age 20 years. Living 
conditions have improved considerably over the last 35 years and the average 
life expectancy has improved from 35 in 1960 to 50 in 1987. Marrying early, 
women have a low status in Mali. They have their first sexual intercourse at 
mean age 15.7 years, bear many children, and often lack adequate resources to 
care for their families. Women have easy access to neither education nor social 
services despite their important role in development. Only 35% of primary school 
students are female. In 1992, the government published its policy on promoting 
women's welfare. The government of Mali has many programs which address the 
family planning and population needs of the country. However, lack of education, 
sociocultural traditions, the minority Catholic population, poor communication 
in the northwest region, and economic and administrative factors are obstacles 
to the practice of family planning.

PMID: 12292579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Chin J Popul Sci. 1996;8(4):379-84.

An analysis of the Chinese regional mortality differential model.

Kai X.

PIP: According to the published life table calculated from data of China's third 
and fourth censuses, the average life expectancy in eastern and coastal regions 
has remained higher than that in western and inland provinces. During 1982-90, a 
significant rise in average life expectancy was observed in the southwest and 
northwest provinces. However, current life expectancy in the southwest and 
northwest provinces is still lower than the national average life expectancy. 
Over the same period, life expectancy in eastern and coastal areas has 
increased. The author analyzes China's regional mortality differential and 
proposes a nonlinear model of mortality and socioeconomic development level to 
achieve a better understanding of the pattern of change for mortality in 
different areas of the country and a more accurate projection of future trends 
of regional mortality.

PMID: 12292592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Chin J Popul Sci. 1996;8(4):403-19.

An estimation of the out-migration from mainland China to Taiwan: 1946-1949.

Jiang Z, Mi H, Zhang Y.

PIP: This study determines trends in out-migration from mainland China to Taiwan 
during 1946-49. Estimates are based on inverse projections from estimated annual 
crude age- and sex-specific birth rates and mortality rates in mainland China. 
Estimates were double-checked against data for 1945-55 from Taiwan. Data were 
obtained from the 1953 Census of China and the 2% National Retrospective Survey 
of Fertility and Contraception in 1988, both of which are regarded as highly 
accurate. The mainland population in 1953 is given as 581,446,758, of which the 
military population is an estimated 5 million and the population without age 
information is 8,882,690. Adjusted figures for 1953 are given in chart form for 
single years of age. Average life expectancy taken from the 1988 data for the 
period 1945-88 and a Coal and Demeny model are used to compute a gender-specific 
life table of population in 1953 and 1954. The Table of Monthly Distribution of 
Births from 1944 to 1988 for the number of persons under the age of 1 year for 
mid-1954 and mid-1955 is viewed as the most accurate source. Total population at 
the end of 1954 is estimated to be 595,725,000, excluding Tibetan and military 
populations. Inverse estimation for determining 1949 figures is performed from 
the 1954 data. Population in 1949 is estimated to be 554,306,952. Migration to 
Taiwan occurred after the end of 1945. Inverse estimation of the 1945 population 
is based on the 1949 population. Population is estimated to be 525,680,958 in 
1945. The population that migrated to Taiwan during 1946-49 is estimated to be 
about 2.201 million. Migration slowed considerably by 1955, but may have 
included a sizeable migration population from overseas. It is deduced from 
mortality and growth rates that the volume of migration was around 2.201 million 
during 1946-49.

PMID: 12292595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Sex Wkly Plus. 1997 Jun 30:9-10.

HIV / AIDS ravages southern African nation. Mozambique (health).

[No authors listed]

PIP: This news brief discusses the spread of AIDS in Mozambique. Mozambique 
reported 826 cases of AIDS to the World Health Organization at the end of 1994. 
The number of AIDS deaths in Mozambique amounted to 37,000 prior to 1996. By 
1996, over 146,000 children were orphaned. It is expected that AIDS-related 
orphans will number over 400,000 by the year 2000. These children share a high 
risk of becoming street children or child laborers. Life expectancy is low at 
46.4 years and unlikely to increase due to the increased AIDS mortality. The 
National AIDS Control Program director is worried that the spread of HIV 
infections will reach the same levels as registered in neighboring countries. 
Malaria, diarrheal diseases, and respiratory infections account for about 18 
million deaths, but deaths from AIDS have a greater economic impact. Most AIDS 
casualties occur in the working-age population. Deaths among youth, who receive 
investments in training and education, result in lost productivity. There is a 
need for a multisectoral approach and one that includes the entire population. 
The country still is recovering from the effects of the civil war, and there are 
insufficient resources to accommodate lost investments. HIV/AIDS also impacts 
the health care system and creates greater demand for beds and supplies. In 
neighboring countries, over 60% of hospital beds are occupied by AIDS patients. 
Nongovernmental groups are trying to create awareness in schools, workplaces, 
and neighborhoods among young people about HIV transmission and avoidance of 
irresponsible sexual activity. The Mozambican Association for the Development of 
the Family creates awareness and helps patients who are living with AIDS to 
obtain necessary food and medicines.

PMID: 12292711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. AIDSlink. 1997 May-Jun;(45):4-5.

Africa's children and AIDS -- a continent in crisis. The devastation of the HIV 
/ AIDS pandemic.

Foster G.

PIP: AIDS is having a major impact upon child health. By mid-1996, UNAIDS 
estimated that worldwide there were 3 million HIV infections in children. 
Accordingly, infant mortality rates (IMRs) have increased due to AIDS, reversing 
declines which had been occurring in many countries over the last few decades. 
The IMR in 1996 would have been 51.7 per 1000 without AIDS; it is instead 72.8 
with AIDS, 40% higher than expected. IMR is 30% higher than expected in Zambia 
and almost 20% higher in Kenya and Uganda. IMRs should grow considerably during 
the next decade as the epidemic spreads. Two-thirds of AIDS deaths among 
children occur among those aged 1-4 years, with countries in southern Africa 
being the most affected. With regard to life expectancy, many years of life will 
be lost due to the AIDS epidemic. AIDS has already led to widespread and marked 
reductions in life expectancy, with life expectancy for females being lower than 
that for males because women are infected with HIV and die at younger ages than 
men. Lower life expectancy will lead to an increase in the proportion of 
orphaned children. It is likely that at least 30 million children are living 
with HIV-positive parents, at risk of being orphaned in the next few years. The 
implications of the growing proportions of orphans and challenges in child 
health are considered.

PMID: 12292736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


