110. Popul Today. 1997 Oct;25(10):7.

Spotlight: Bolivia.

Weber E.

PIP: Bolivia is one of the poorest and least developed countries in South 
America. As of mid-1997, the country's population was comprised of 7.8 million 
individuals spread across 418,680 square miles. Bolivia's population size is 
growing through natural increase at the rate of 2.6% per year, with 36 births 
and 10 deaths per 1000 population. Bolivia's total population size is projected 
to reach 13.2 million by 2025. The total fertility rate is 4.8 births per woman 
even though the 1994 Demographic and Health Survey found that only 45% of 
pregnancies were wanted and the average woman has reported wanting only 2.5 
children. 42% of women at risk of pregnancy use some form of contraception, with 
18% using a modern method. There are 71 infant deaths per 1000 live births, 
child mortality is especially high between ages 1 and 3 years due to widespread 
child malnutrition after weaning, 650 women die for every 100,000 births, and 
life expectancy is 59 and 62 years for men and women, respectively. Concern over 
the high infant and child mortality rates has led to increased interest in 
family planning in recent years and the government of Bolivia now provides some 
support for the distribution of contraceptives.

PMID: 12292775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Pol Popul Rev. 1996;(8):59-70.

Examination of the status of health of population in Poland.

Kuciarska-ciesielska M.

"This article presents sources of information about the health status of the 
Polish population...; the number and causes of deaths, the morbidity due to more 
important diseases and average life expectancy.... At the same time this 
situation is compared with those in some European countries."

excerpt

PMID: 12292824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Acta Univ Carol Geogr. 1995;30(1-2):43-51.

Population and development.

Pavlik Z.

PIP: During the Paleolithic period, 10,000-100,000 people lived on the earth; 
their number exceeded 1 million at the beginning of the Neolithic period, 
reached 10 million during the Bronze Age, 100 million at the beginning of the 
Iron Age, 1 billion at the beginning of the 19th century, and 5.7 billion in 
1995. The estimated global population will be 10 billion by the middle of the 
21st century and is expected to stabilize at around 10-12 billion subsequently. 
Increased agricultural production helped bring about greater numbers of humanity 
and the advancement of society with a developing social hierarchy, although life 
expectancy was low at 22-28 years. In Europe, the Renaissance gradually evolved 
into the Industrial Revolution, and a demographic revolution accompanied this 
process. In some countries, population size increased more than five times. 
Eventually, mortality and fertility levels decreased and life expectancy 
increased. In Western civilization, increased individualism, secularization, 
compulsory school attendance, decreased agricultural population, emancipation of 
women, increased costs of raising children, and social and economic progress 
ensued. All this was preceded by 18th century conditions, when, in England, 
capital accumulation led to wealth on the one side and destitution on the other, 
giving rise to Malthus's famous theory. However, during the 19th century these 
social inequalities gradually evened out. After World War II, the question arose 
of whether the populations of other civilizations (Confucian, Japanese, Islamic, 
Hindu, Slavic-Orthodox, Latin American, and African) would also undergo a 
demographic transition and how soon. At any rate, developed country population 
size, as a percentage of global population, will drop from 22% to 13%, and that 
of Africa will increase from 12% to 26%, during the 21st century.

PMID: 12292830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Courr Pays Est. 1995 Jul-Aug;(401):32-45.

[The demographic situation of Russia at the dawn of the year 2000].

[Article in French]

Vichnevski A.

PIP: "With naturally low growth rates since the 1960s, the Russian population 
declined for the first time in 1992, putting the country in sixth place 
worldwide (148.3 million inhabitants in 1995). The author of this article draws 
on official statistics and surveys to explain this phenomenon, which is 
sociological as well as economic and health-related. The reproduction rate is 
declining, with high infant mortality (20% compared with 6% in the FRG 
[Germany]), unparalleled adult peacetime mortality and a declining life 
expectancy. Migratory trends have been reversed since the disintegration of the 
USSR: once a provider of population, Russia has now become an immigrant land." 
(EXCERPT)

PMID: 12292842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Eur J Popul. 1997 Mar;13(1):33-47. doi: 10.1023/a:1005768425808.

The attractiveness of an additive hazard model: an example from medical 
demography.

Kravdal O.

PIP: "With the intention of studying sociodemographic differentials in the 
elevated mortality from cancer, a mixed additive-multiplicative continuous-time 
hazard model with categorical covariates is suggested. This model is a simple 
and plausible extension of the multiplicative hazard model demographers are well 
acquainted with. As an empirical example, survival from prostate cancer among 
Norwegian men is examined on the basis of individual register and census data. 
The model has some advantages compared to the models based on an additive 
mortality structure that have previously been used in studies of cancer 
survival. In other demographic research areas, it could be an interesting 
alternative to the commonly employed multiplicative hazard model." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005768425808
PMID: 12292854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Biul IGS. 1995;39(3-4):77-88.

[Family policy in Slovenia].

[Article in Polish]

Bresar A.

PIP: "This article presents selected socio-demographic indicators (i.e. average 
life expectancy, parity and mortality rates, the number of divorces, women's 
professional activity rates and unemployment rates among men and women) and 
reviews...family benefits in Slovenia. The author compares some of the 
information with Poland and Hungary." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12292895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Notas Poblacion. 1996 Dec;24(64):7-32.

[The estimation of years lived in disability: a global initiative].

[Article in Spanish]

Robine JM, Romieu I, Cambois E.

PIP: "This paper [translated from the original French] sets out the main 
information brought by the calculations of health expectancies at a global 
level: sex differences, national geographical comparisons, socio-economic 
differences; causes of disability and handicap; time trends; and nature of the 
years lived with disabilities. The study illustrates the policy relevance of 
health expectancies to (i) appraise the quality of the years lived, (ii) 
supervise health inequalities, (iii) allocate resources to different programmes, 
or (iv) assess health policies. It also illustrates the large diversity of 
potential indicators of the quality of years lived." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12292916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Estud Geogr. 1996 Apr-Jun;57(223):245-67.

[The population of Cuba. Its evolution and current characteristics].

[Article in Spanish]

Montiel Rodriguez S.

PIP: The dynamics, composition, and spatial distribution of the Cuban population 
are described. Cuba's crude birth rate (CBR) declined from 27.7/1000 in 1970 to 
14.1 in 1981 and 1994. Low fertility reflects progress in education and health 
care and, in the 1990s, economic crisis. CBRs are lowest in the western 
provinces and highest in the less developed eastern provinces. The total 
fertility rate in 1992 was 1.52. The crude death rate, 6.3 in 1970 and 5.9 in 
1980, rose to 7.2 in 1993 as the effects of demographic aging began to be felt. 
Life expectancy at birth during 1986-87 was 72.7 for males and 76.3 for females. 
The infant mortality rate was 18.5/1000 in 1981 and 9.4 in 1993, ranging from 
6.6 to 11.6 in different provinces. Effects of migration and fertility 
variations are evident in Cuba's sex and age structures. 11.8% of the population 
was over 60 in 1990. 45% of the population is concentrated within 10 km of the 
Central Highway that traverses the island. Average density increased from 
50.9/sq. km in 1953 to 98 in 1992. The urban proportion increased from 60.5% in 
1970 to 74% in 1992. In the past 3 decades, all of the eastern provinces have 
lost population through out-migration, and most of the central and western 
provinces have gained. Migration tends to be predominantly female. 844,000 
Cubans emigrated between 1960 and 1992. The population is projected to reach 
11,504,000 in 2000 and 12,993,000 in 2025.

PMID: 12292927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. AIDS Anal Afr. 1997 Oct;7(5):12-3.

Deteriorating child health in countries with severe AIDS epidemics: forecasts 
and challenges.

Foster G.

PIP: AIDS is having a major adverse impact upon child health. UNAIDS estimated 
that by mid-1996, worldwide, there were 3 million HIV infections among children 
and 9 million maternal orphans due to AIDS. At least 30 million children living 
with HIV-positive parents will probably be orphaned over the next few years. The 
author discusses the direct and indirect impact of AIDS upon children, using 
estimates recently published by the US Bureau of the Census. Countries with 
severe HIV/AIDS epidemics are experiencing rising infant mortality rates; 
two-thirds of AIDS deaths among children occur among those aged 1-4 years; life 
expectancy has fallen due to AIDS in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Uganda, and Kenya; and 
the level of orphanhood will increase as HIV spreads and the prevalence of AIDS 
rises. Child health, poverty, and challenges in the context of AIDS are 
considered.

PMID: 12293007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. AIDS Anal Afr. 1997 Oct;7(5):8.

Who gets insurance? A Zambian innovation.

Winter J.

PIP: In conventional pension schemes, the total worth of an employee's regular 
contributions made throughout his or her working life is paid out during 
retirement on the basis of average life expectancy. In Zimbabwe, life expectancy 
is 66 years and an estimated 500 people die from AIDS per week. AIDS morbidity 
can force people to retire early from work and considerably reduce life 
expectancy. Therefore, a 45-year-old employee with AIDS who retires and is 
expected to live only an additional 5 years will not receive the full value of 
his pension during retirement because the lump sum will be divided and paid into 
21 equal parts rather than 5. To meet the needs of such people with serious 
medical impairments which significantly reduce their life expectancy and force 
them to retire early from work, Fidelity Life developed and launched its 
Enhanced Annuity policy. In Fidelity's new pension scheme, medical experts 
estimate the number of years a patient is expected to survive, then use that 
figure to calculate the annuity the person will receive. To qualify, a person 
must be very ill and have a lump sum of Z$25,000 (US$2100) either through 
pension contributions or savings.

PMID: 12293011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Chin J Popul Sci. 1997;9(2):75-86.

Study of a calculation method for healthy life expectancy.

Zhong Z, Chen Y, Yao K.

"To develop a calculation method for healthy life expectancy which would be 
suitable for China we analyzed the healthy life expectancy of urban residents in 
China, employing data on residents' deaths and data available from the 1993 
national survey for health services and family health conditions.... Results of 
the study show that the ratio of healthy life expectancy to life expectancy 
decreases with the increase of the residents' age; healthy life expectancy for 
females is higher than that for males; [and] healthy life expectancy for 
residents of large cities is lower than that for residents of medium and small 
cities."

excerpt

PMID: 12293056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. China Popul Res Newsl. 1997 Jun;(1):3-4.

The lasting low fertility and ageing in Shanghai.

Zha B.

PIP: This brief article discusses fertility decline and increased proportions of 
elderly in Shanghai, China. By 1996, Shanghai had 14.19 million permanent 
population and 13.05 million resident population. The natural population growth 
rate was 1.4/1000. The birth rate was 5.6/1000 and the death rate was 7/1000. 
5.6084 million were engaged in urban employment by the end of 1996, which was 
0.5% fewer employed people than in the preceding year. 3.8 million worked in 
state-owned or collectively owned enterprises. Unemployment was 2.8%. The gross 
domestic product per capita was 22,086 yuan (US$2661). The average annual wage 
was 10,572 yuan/year among urban workers. Rural and suburban households earned 
an average of 4846 yuan/year. The proportion of women of childbearing age 
continues to decline, while the proportion of elderly increases. 17.1% of total 
population were children aged 0-14 years in 1995 compared to 18.2% in 1990. The 
proportion of elderly increased from 9.4% in 1990 to 11.4% in 1995. The median 
age of population was 37.3 years. Life expectancy was 74.07 years for men and 
78.21 years for women.

PMID: 12293060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Popul Today. 1997 Dec;25(12):7.

Spotlight: Eritrea.

[No authors listed]

PIP: With a mid-1997 population of 3.6 million living in a land area of 39,000 
sq. miles, Eritrea is Africa's most recent country, becoming independent from 
Ethiopia in 1993 after a 30-year civil war. Eritrea's newly achieved statehood 
leaves Ethiopia landlocked and dependent upon Eritrea's ports for foreign trade. 
95% of the population earns its livelihood through subsistence agriculture. 
While rain has been plentiful, Eritrea suffers from deforestation, soil erosion, 
and the remaining land mines from the civil war. Relative to men, women in 
Eritrea have lower status and power. The Eritrean National Statistics Office 
recently released findings from the nation's first demographic and health survey 
which indicate that child survival is improving. Under-5 child mortality fell 
from 185 deaths/1000 live births during 1981-85 to 136/1000 during 1991-95. 
Vaccination coverage has expanded in recent years, almost 40% of children under 
age 3 years are chronically malnourished, about 41% of recent mothers showed 
signs of chronic energy deficiency, and few Eritrean women receive adequate 
maternity care. The government recently launched a 3-year safe motherhood action 
plan designed to prevent maternal mortality by improving access to reproductive 
health services. Nationwide, the rate of total fertility in Eritrea is 6.1 
births/woman, life expectancy is 48 years for men and 51 years for women, and 
total population size is growing annually through natural increase at the rate 
of 2.9%.

PMID: 12293122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. IIPS Newsl. 1997 Jul;38(2-3):2-6.

Convocation address.

Gore MS.

PIP: In India, data from the decennial censuses have been the catalyst that has 
led researchers to identify social policy needs and craft programs to lower 
overall mortality rates, infant mortality rates, and fertility rates. A new 
demographic phenomenon that is being exposed by the data is the increase in life 
expectancy that will see large numbers of individuals surviving 15-20 years 
beyond age 60. This increased life expectancy will lead to an increased old age 
dependency ratio and will require reexamination of the issue of resources to 
meet the needs of the elderly. These needs are social and psychological as well 
as physical. Research is needed to predict the initial consequences of 
population aging within different states. International comparisons within the 
Asian region will also foster identification of effective policies. Research is 
also needed to identify whether longevity is tied to higher educational and 
socioeconomic status in order to improve life expectancy among low-income 
groups. Another aspect that requires consideration is that most elderly women 
will likely survive their husbands. This means that they will be available to 
care for their husbands but will have to depend upon their children to care for 
them. The possible demographic diversity in the experience of aging among 
various states and classes and between the genders may be of special interest to 
researchers.

PMID: 12293130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Technol Forecast Soc Change. 1997;55:281-99. doi:
10.1016/s0040-1625(97)00024-3.

Longevity and life expectancy.

Marchetti C.

"In this article the evolution of life expectancy is examined historically for 
various European nations at various ages, and according to sex. Appropriate 
logistic equations describe the facts and extrapolate into the future giving the 
doctor an indication of what is still to be accomplished and the demographer the 
tools with which to evaluate the aging of European population in the next 20 
years....I posit that the increase in life expectancy is the product of a 
learning process to remove the accidents and obstacles on the way to the full 
life potential of an individual: longevity."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-1625(97)00024-3
PMID: 12293137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. AIDS Illus. 1996 Oct;2(1):4.

AIDS and economic disruption.

Johnson GS.

PIP: Child and adult mortality increases in Cameroon due to AIDS will cause life 
expectancy to fall by as many as 8 years, from just over 50 to just over 40 
years. The social consequences of AIDS include grieving, stigmatizing, and the 
large-scale disruption of family and community structures. Widows and widowers 
due to AIDS mortality are affected differently from each other, with the widows 
of men who have died from AIDS facing potential sociocultural and economic 
hardship. The economic consequences of AIDS in Bamenda and elsewhere in Cameroon 
will occur mainly through the epidemic's impact upon the size and quality of the 
labor force. By killing a significant number of male and female workers aged 
15-60 years, AIDS will reduce the size and growth rate of the labor force. 
Despite, rapid population growth, labor is a relatively scarce factor of 
agricultural production in Cameroon. The spread of HIV in rural areas, combined 
with the intensity and scarcity of agricultural labor, suggests that AIDS will 
have an impact upon production and per capita incomes, and increase the already 
high rates of hunger and absolute poverty. In the context of HIV/AIDS, young 
people must be empowered to make informed decisions about sex. Adolescents are 
most at risk because they tend to experiment more than married couples and have 
many sex partners. Sexual activity begins as early as age 8 years and 
penetrative sex at age 13 or earlier. The author considers the factors which 
encourage adolescents to engage in sexual activities.

PMID: 12293251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. AIDS Anal Afr. 1998 Feb;8(1):4-6.

Where are we heading with HIV / AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa? The status and 
trends of HIV / AIDS / STD epidemics.

Kerkhoven R.

PIP: By the end of 1997, an estimated 20.8 million people in sub-Saharan Africa 
were infected with HIV, 68% of all HIV infections. At the Tenth Annual 
International Conference on STDs and AIDS in Africa held in Abidjan in 1997, the 
MAP network continued its series of pre-conference symposia on the shape and 
status of HIV/AIDS in the various continents. The outcome of the Abidjan 
symposium was then published in a provisional report made available to the main 
conference's participants. The main conclusions of the symposium with regard to 
the following areas and subjects are presented: West Africa, Central Africa, the 
Horn of Africa, Eastern Africa, Southern Africa, life expectancy, HIV/AIDS and 
STDs, data, determinants of the spread of HIV, the relative importance of 
determinants, poverty, understanding determinants, the national response, 
children and the spread of HIV, and the future.

PMID: 12293290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Majallat Aldiwan Alqawmi Lilusrah Waal Umran lbashari. 1997 Sep;(6):8-9.

[World Population Day, July 1997. For a trilogy in symbiosis].

[Article in French]

Kefi R.

PIP: World population growth was very slow throughout most of history, with the 
1 billion mark attained only in the 19th century. Total world population reached 
5.848 billion in 1997, and at a growth rate of 1.4% is expected to reach 8 
billion in 2025. Over 80% of the growth occurs in developing countries. Asia, 
with 3.538 billion, remains the most populous continent. 1.243 billion are in 
China; 960 million, in India. Population growth appears to be declining 
everywhere in the world expect Africa, which is growing at 2.6%, and Western 
Asia, growing at 2.2%. The growth rate is 0.3% in industrialized countries as a 
whole, and 0% in Europe. The developing countries have crude birth and death 
rates of 29/1000 and 9/1000, respectively, compared to 12/1000 and 10/1000 in 
developed countries. Life expectancy at birth is 63 in developing countries, 50 
in East and Central Africa, and 74 in the industrialized countries. Nearly all 
regions have entered the demographic transition, but they are at very different 
stages. As demographic trends diverge, the gap in economic development between 
developed and developing countries is widening. According to the 1996 World 
Report on Human Development, only 21.7% of the world's gross national product 
originates in developing countries. The differences are enormous in the degree 
of satisfaction of basic socioeconomic and health needs. It has become clear 
that demographic pressure is a determining factor in environmental degradation. 
Climatic disturbances, water pollution, deforestation and desertification attest 
to overconsumption of resources and emission of enormous quantities of wastes. 
Policies to control demographic growth have become the pivot of processes for 
construction of healthy societies. All studies have shown that issues of 
population, resources, and the environment are organically linked. Tunisia, a 
progressive country, has been concerned since independence with economic growth 
and social advancement of the population, and population has been integrated 
into the different social and economic plans. Economic conditions have improved, 
and the principal demographic and health parameters are increasingly under 
control. Tunisia has achieved a contraceptive prevalence rate of 60%.

PMID: 12293318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Maandstat Bevolking. 1998 Jan;46:8-13.

[Period life tables for the Netherlands by sex and age, 1991-1995].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: "About two out of three age-specific mortality quotients based on 
observations [in the Netherlands] during 1991-1995 are lower than the 
corresponding quotients for 1986-1990. The decrease in mortality risk is 
strongest in the lower ages and generally more pronounced for males than for 
females. Expectation of life at birth for boys rose from 73.6 years in 1986-1990 
to 74.3 years in 1991-1995. For girls a somewhat smaller increase has taken 
place (from 80.0 to 80.2 years)." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12293350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1997;53(1):45-63.

[Long-term prediction of age-specific mortality with a multivariate 
autoregressive model].

[Article in Japanese]

Oba T.

PIP: "Age and sex-specific mortality rates from 1995 to 2030 in Japan were 
predicted with [a] multivariate autoregressive (MAR) model.... The result 
suggested that...male life expectancy will reach 81.9 years in 2030, 
and...female life expectancy will reach 88.8 years in 2016 and thereafter 
decrease slowly.... The declining speed of...female mortality for 20 to 65 years 
old will be slower [than that for males and] their mortality will increase." 
(EXCERPT)

PMID: 12293385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Finance Dev. 1998 Mar:15-7.

Confronting AIDS.

Squire L.

PIP: By 2020, HIV/AIDS will be the leading infectious killer of young and 
middle-aged adults in the developing world. Past gains in life expectancy are 
already being eroded in some countries. Millions of lives can, however, be saved 
if developing country governments, the international community, and 
nongovernmental organizations act now. Although more than 11 million people have 
already died of AIDS, 2.3 billion people live in developing countries in which 
the disease has not yet spread beyond certain risk groups. If the spread of HIV 
is checked, the quality of care available to people who are infected with HIV 
will probably be better than it would be in the context of a full-blown AIDS 
epidemic. However, while governments need to respond urgently to HIV/AIDS, using 
resources to help people with AIDS will reduce the resources available for other 
investments, such as child education, providing safe drinking water, and 
building roads. Economics can help governments set priorities as they decide how 
best to allocate their available resources. Externalities, public goods, and 
redistribution are discussed. All countries will need to use some combination of 
preventive and coping measures.

PMID: 12293445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Plan Parent Chall. 1997;(1-2):18-21.

Poverty and reproductive health: global overview.

Ketting E.

PIP: This article opens by tabulating selected family planning (FP) indicators 
from the 24 poorest countries (those with a gross national product (GNP) of up 
to $300 per capita). Consideration of what is poverty and who are the poor 
concludes that poverty is hard to define but that is it a combination of low 
income, low life expectancy, illiteracy, and low educational levels; that is, 
the result of a denial of choices and opportunities. The poorest countries by 
this criteria differ somewhat from the poorest chosen according to GNP, but most 
are located in sub-Saharan Africa. The use of national data is complicated by 
the fact that huge differences exist between rich and poor within countries. The 
poorest countries have the lowest use of FP, the most restrictive abortion laws, 
high incidences of mortality associated with unsafe abortion, and high maternal 
mortality rates. International population and FP assistance is embarrassingly 
low and unfairly allocated. International assistance must be increased to break 
the cycle of poverty and improve reproductive health. The International Planned 
Parenthood Federation (IPPF) believes that improvement of reproductive health 
for the impoverished is a basic condition for human development and reduction of 
global inequity. In its policy statement on this topic, the IPPF recommends that 
local FP associations 1) constantly reevaluate how to maximize their impact on 
the most vulnerable, 2) be pioneers in the field of sexual and reproductive 
health, 3) reassess priorities in light of diminishing donor funding, 4) become 
advocates for increased resources and to further the work they are undertaking, 
and 5) strengthen collaboration with other development agencies working in the 
field.

PMID: 12293455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Plan Parent Chall. 1997;(1-2):31-3.

An integrated approach to help Nepal's rural poor.

Thapa M.

PIP: Nepal is a densely populated country, and 90% of its population lives in 
rural areas marked by deprivation. The gender gap that keeps women at a 
disadvantage can be seen in educational, food access, and life expectancy 
figures. About half the population exists below the poverty level, and total 
health expenditure is about US$7 per capita. Many rural areas are served only by 
traditional healers. Maternal mortality and fertility rates are high, and the 
fertility rate in rural areas is almost double that in urban areas. The 
government has developed an new integrated policy to improve the health of the 
population, especially of its most vulnerable members, that includes 1) 
gender-sensitive community participation; 2) decentralization and delegation of 
power to the local level; 3) an emphasis on disease prevention and health 
promotion; 4) development and dissemination of locally-acceptable information, 
education, and communication materials; 5) mobilization of existing local 
community-based groups; 6) development and expansion of the competency of local 
health and development workers; 7) promotion and improvement of existing 
traditional health care practices; 8) creation of outreach clinics; 9) 
improvement of follow-up health care; 10) empowerment of rural poor, especially 
women, in the areas of literacy, legal rights, health promotion, and health 
protection; 11) provision of credit and markets for self-sustainable income 
generation; and 12) development of a functional referral system at each level.

PMID: 12293460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Popul Today. 1998 Apr;26(4):5.

World's women: making gains but still disadvantaged.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article briefly summarizes the progress made by women globally and 
points out that women are still disadvantaged. The article is based on 
statistics compiled in a wall chart on Women in 1998 by the Population Reference 
Bureau. Women have progressed in education, the labor force, and health. Women's 
life expectancy has increased from 49 to 68 years since the 1950s. Women's 
participation in the labor force has increased from 33% to 54%. Literacy has 
risen from 54% to 64% since the 1970s. The gender gap in secondary school 
enrollment has narrowed since the 1980s. The ratio of girl-to-boy secondary 
school enrollment is 80 or 90 girls/100 boys. However, women still experience 
major disadvantages. In 1997, women became HIV-infected at a rate of almost 6000 
women/day. 41% of people living with HIV/AIDS are women. In sub-Saharan Africa, 
women with HIV account for 50% of the nearly 20 million adults infected with 
HIV. The proportion of HIV-infected women in other regions ranges 20-33%. 4 
million of the 11.7 million people who have died of AIDS were women. Nearly 
600,000 women die every year from maternal mortality and abortion. Maternal 
mortality rates range from under 8 deaths/100,000 live births in European 
countries to 1400 deaths/100,000 live births in some sub-Saharan countries. 
Family planning and access to and services for prenatal, delivery, and 
postpartum care can help reduce maternal deaths. Maternal care has improved, but 
not sufficiently to offset the increased number of pregnancies. The number of 
female-headed households has grown, and these households tend to be poor.

PMID: 12293548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Rev Bras Estud Popul. 1996 Jul-Dec;13(2):169-82.

[Model representation of mortality patterns].

[Article in Portuguese]

Paes NA.

PIP: "In this study a bibliographic review of the classical model life tables in 
the demographic literature is done, calling...attention to the characteristics 
and limitations of using such models for constructing complete life tables. A 
critical review with relation to the ¿Brazil Model' of life tables [is done] and 
two new models [are] proposed based on the Brazilian experience of mortality." 
(EXCERPT)

PMID: 12293581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1997;53(2):18-30.

[Household formation in Japan: a life table analysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki T.

PIP: An analysis of household formation behavior in Japan is presented using 
data from the Third National Survey on Household Changes conducted in October 
1994. "The results showed that the age at which 50 percent leaves home decreased 
from 22.3 and 22.7 for the 1934-39 birth cohort to 19.7 and 21.7 for the 1949-54 
cohort, males and females respectively. This trend reversed recently and the age 
at which 50 percent leaves increased to 22.4 and 23.8 for the 1964-69 cohort. 
Unlike other countries, males left parental home earlier than females for all 
the cohorts examined in this study. Reasons for leaving home were examined to 
explain the difference by sex and cohort. It was shown that the recent delay was 
mainly caused by the decrease in the proportion of leaving home before marriage. 
For males, the delay in the first job taking due to higher education was also an 
important factor. There was a huge difference by sex on reasons for leaving 
home. While more than 80 percent of males left home for education or occupation 
before marriage, approximately a half of females stayed in parental home until 
marriage." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12293601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Popul Headl. 1998 Mar-Apr;(263):3.

Kyrgyzstan sees fertility declining.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article presents population statistics for Kyrgyzstan and describes 
some government actions to improve health and family planning. Kyrgyzstan has a 
population of 4.5 million. The crude birth rate declined sharply during 1990-96, 
to 24 births/1000 persons. The population growth rate is slightly under 2% 
annually. Population is expected to reach 6.2 million in 2005. 37.7% of the 
population is aged under 15 years. Average life expectancy is 68.3 years. Infant 
and maternal mortality is still high. Abortion is the primary means of birth 
control. In 1997, there were over 21,000 abortions performed at a rate of 
19.4/1000 women of reproductive age. Women had 5-6 abortions/person during their 
reproductive years. Abortion is the main cause of maternal death. Contraceptive 
prevalence was only 30%. 70.2% of women used IUDs, and 15.2% used oral pills. 
The country recognizes the problem of such a high rate of abortion and is 
shifting family planning towards contraception. Program activity will also focus 
on adolescent reproductive health issues, such as adolescent abortion and 
sexually transmitted disease. The Ministry of Health has established the 
Kyz-Bala Program (Girl-Boy). This program aims to develop a healthy attitude 
toward reproductive and sexual health. The goal is to improve the information 
systems for providing updated reproductive health and sexual knowledge, for the 
use of methods of contraception, and for healthy life styles.

PMID: 12293630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Popul Headl. 1998 Mar-Apr;(263):5.

India's population impact "global".

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article summarizes statistics from the 1998 ESCAP Population Data 
Sheet. India's present population is slightly under 975 million persons. India 
is the second most populous country in the world, after China. India began a new 
era in policy and program content for enhancing fertility decline after the 1994 
International Conference on Population and Development. The 1997-2002 Five Year 
Plan calls for reduction in the population growth rate. The population growth 
rate, in 1996, was 1.8% annually. By 1991, the population aged 0-14 years was 
37%, while the urban population was 26%; female literacy was 39.3% and male 
literacy was 64.1%. In 1994, the median age at first marriage among women had 
increased to 19.4 years. Life expectancy for women rose from 36.1 years to 62.9 
years during 1951-86. In India, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) have played 
a role in implementing family planning programs. Recent changes reflect a 
greater role of larger NGOs in interacting with and overseeing smaller NGOs. 
Larger NGOs approve projects, release funds, train, and monitor and evaluate 
activities. Government policy has shifted to a system of community needs 
assessment. Disparate contraceptive and maternal and child health programs have 
been integrated into a reproductive and child health program. Program emphasis 
is on meeting clients' needs and improving quality of care.

PMID: 12293632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nepal Popul Dev J. 1997 Jul;(Spec No):19-36.

Women, health and population policies.

Tuladhar J.

PIP: Women, in Nepal, suffer from low levels of literacy, limited access to 
health care, and widespread poverty. This article describes the health status of 
Nepalese women, major interventions, and constraints. Nepalese women face 10 
major critical health issues. Women have little choice in determining marriage 
partners, number of children, or family planning (FP). Women's status is 
measured by the number of sons. Women's security is tied to the childbearing 
capacity. Women lack property rights and access to independent resources. Clause 
9 of the Law permits men to remarry and leave their wives destitute: if the 
woman is incurably mentally ill; if the woman has an infectious, incurable 
venereal disease; if the woman is an invalid; if the woman is infertile after 10 
years of marriage; or if the woman is living separate and taking her share of 
ANSA. The 6th 5-Year Plan offered the integration of FP within other development 
programs. Population policy included, for the first time, women's programs. Four 
major women-oriented strategies were included in the 1984 National Population 
Strategy: 1) the encouragement of women's employment through training and job 
opportunities in health, education, and agricultural industries; 2) provision of 
institutional support that accommodates women's needs; 3) integration of women's 
development within Integrated Development Projects; and 4) distribution of 
appropriate technology. Future actions should focus on reproductive health, FP 
for adolescents and men, women's control of their own fertility, and the 
education of the girl child.

PMID: 12293764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Popul Today. 1998 Jul-Aug;26(7-8):7.

Spotlight: Lebanon.

Fischbach MR.

PIP: As of mid-1998, Lebanon had a population of 4.1 million people residing in 
a land area of 4015 sq. miles. There were 23 births and 7 deaths per 1000 
population, as well as 34 infant deaths for every 1000 live births, and a 
population growing in size at 1.6% annually, one of the lowest population growth 
rates in the Arab world. The average woman had 2.3 births during her 
reproductive lifetime and life expectancy was 68 years for men and 73 years for 
women. Lebanon is the only Arab country without a desert. Moreover, unlike other 
countries in the region, Lebanon has all of the water resources it needs to 
sustain its population. 95% of Lebanese are Arab and speak Arabic. 356,000 
Palestinian Arabs, refugees, and their descendants live in the country's 12 
refugee camps. 65% of married women in 1996 reported using some form of 
contraception; 39% used a modern method. In 1995, 94.7% of men and 90.3% of 
women were literate, and the gross national product per capita in 1996 was 
US$2970. Active in the international trade of hashish and cocaine, Lebanon is 
still recovering from its 1975-90 civil war and the 1982 Israeli invasion. 
Environmental pollution and other environmental threats are of growing concern.

PMID: 12294108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Popul Today. 1998 Nov;26(11):7.

Spotlight: Mongolia.

[No authors listed]

PIP: As of mid-1998, Mongolia had a population of 2.4 million people residing in 
a land area of 604,826 sq. miles. There were 24 births and 7 deaths per 1000 
population, as well as 49 infant deaths for every 1000 live births, and a 
population growing in size at 1.6% annually. Mongolia has the highest birth rate 
in East Asia, and is one of the few developing countries which promotes 
population growth. A large number of young women will enter their childbearing 
years in the near future. The average Mongolian woman has 3.1 births during her 
reproductive lifetime and life expectancy is 57 years overall; no data are 
available for separate male and female rates. After Western Sahara, Mongolia has 
the world's lowest population density, at approximately 4 people per sq. mile. 
More than 25% of Mongolia's population lives in the capital city of Ulan Bator, 
of whom half live in tents, with minimal supplies of water and electricity. Live 
animals and animal products account for half of Mongolia's output and almost 90% 
of its exports. As Mongolia begins to exploit its rich supply of coal and oil 
reserves, mining and industrial pressures upon water resources and wilderness 
are beginning to be acknowledged. In addition, the country's grasslands are 
vulnerable to overgrazing by a growing number of livestock. The United Nations 
Development Program's Mongolia Biodiversity Project is a multifaceted approach 
to help Mongolia conserve its ecological wealth. The US is also helping Mongolia 
manage its resource problems through funding and the deployment of 58 US Peace 
Corps volunteers to important protected areas.

PMID: 12294354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. AIDS Anal Afr. 1998 Jun;8(3):1-2.

World population profile reveals bleak data.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article presents selected demographic and HIV/AIDS indicators for 1998 
and projections for 2010 for selected African countries. The statistics are 
provided by the US Bureau of the Census. The Census HIV/AIDS database is one of 
the best in the world. Findings reveal that Africa is the worst affected by 
AIDS. Eight countries are particularly affected: Zimbabwe, Namibia, Botswana, 
Swaziland, Zambia, Kenya, Malawi, and South Africa. In 1998, life expectancy 
declined by 25.7 years. Population growth is expected to decline from 2.5% to 
1.1% due to the impact of AIDS mortality. HIV continues to spread in African 
countries and its spread and impact is not recorded in present data. With AIDS, 
life expectancy is likely to decline in Zimbabwe from 39.2 to 38.8 years during 
1998-2010; without AIDS, it is expected to rise from 64.9 to 69.5 years during 
the same time period. Only in Zambia is there a slight increase in life 
expectancy with AIDS. The overwhelming poor life prospects for Africans are 
reflected in this article, which can provide statistics only for 21 of 53 
African countries. The absence of data may mean low HIV prevalence, lack of 
data, or the beginning of the HIV epidemic. The UNDP provides a Human Poverty 
Index with indicators for deprivation in knowledge, deprivation in living 
standards, and longevity. African countries are likely to shift to the bottom of 
this index due to the impact of AIDS.

PMID: 12294386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. AIDS Anal Afr. 1998 Jun;8(3):10.

Pregnant women in AZT testing in Uganda.

Sebunya C.

PIP: In Uganda, where clinical trials of various anti-HIV drugs have been 
conducted since 1997, more than 2000 pregnant women have participated in studies 
of zidovudine. The issue of providing antiretroviral therapy to pregnant women 
raises complex issues. The suitability of a complicated drug regimen for women 
in developing countries has been questioned, and erratic drug procurement 
problems related to budget shortages could lead to a viral rebound effect. The 
estimated annual cost of antiretroviral therapy would be US$17-24 billion to 
treat just 50% of eligible women in sub-Saharan Africa. Also of concern are the 
ethics of prioritizing the offspring's interests over those of the HIV-infected 
mother. Although treatment might reduce the chance of infant infection, the 
mother still faces a limited life expectancy. HIV transmission during breast 
feeding could undo the beneficial effects of zidovudine administration in 
pregnancy and the possible toxicity of antiretroviral drugs in breast milk has 
not been ascertained. Finally, it must be determined whether HIV testing and 
counseling will be available to all pregnant women or just those in high-risk 
groups.

PMID: 12294387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. JOICFP News. 1998 Dec;(294):3.

UNFPA stresses importance of reproductive health.

Sadik N.

PIP: This article summarizes statements made by Dr. Nafis Sadik on October 19, 
1998, to TICAD II. The address focused on the health challenges that Africa 
faces. The 1998 population in Africa of 780 million will double to about 1.5 
billion in about 25 years. It is likely that this growth will impede 
socioeconomic development. Quality of life will be reduced by high infant and 
maternal mortality and high levels of HIV/AIDS. Only a small minority of 
Africans have access to basic health and reproductive health (RH) services. 
There are many unwanted births. The impact of HIV/AIDS on women has been very 
harsh. Life expectancy in some countries has been reduced. 50% of new HIV 
infections are among young people, who are poorly informed about RH. Health 
services are not suitable for youth needs. The consequences of early marriage 
and childbearing are limits to education and employment. Young women face the 
threat of domestic violence and abuse. Teenagers can be protected against 
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases by institutionalization of sex 
education. RH needs to stress male responsibility in sexual health and 
childbearing. Sexual responsibility can be a life-and-death situation. African 
countries are beginning to integrate population and development policies. 
African countries need to adopt goals to increase access to RH services and 
family planning. Access should increase to 20% of population by the year 2000. 
Integrated programs, empowerment of women in development, male responsibility, 
and increased literacy should be expanded. UNFPA will continue to give Africa 
priority through increased resources, staff, and other partnerships.

PMID: 12294632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. ZPG Report. 1999 Feb;31(1):24.

Point of view: Paul Simon.

Simon P.

PIP: In this article, former US Senator Paul Simon notes that, in his lifetime, 
the population of the world has tripled and is expected to quadruple. Among the 
effects of this population growth will be a 55% increase in nitrate emissions 
that will feed algae and compromise fish supplies. The US was extremely 
short-sighted when it reduced funding for the international family planning (FP) 
programs that benefit all nations. False accusations that the UN Population Fund 
(UNFPA) operates with a "bloated bureaucracy" ignore the fact that this agency 
has only 166 employees. More appropriate criticism would assert that the task 
the UNFPA is trying to accomplish is too important and too vast for such a small 
staff. Without FP programs, earth would now have to support an additional 400 
million people. While contraceptive use by married women in developing countries 
has increased from 10% in 1965 to above 50% today and life expectancy is 
increasing, we must recognize the fact that we are currently unable to provide 
most of the world's population with safe water and sanitation and that increased 
population size will only exacerbate this problem. Encouraging voluntary FP is 
humanitarian and prudent and will help protect the entire population of the 
world.

PMID: 12294691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Fem Fam Ther. 1996;8(4):5-20. doi: 10.1300/J086v08n01_03.

Half the human race: the international women's movement at the end of the 
twentieth century.

Cloud K.

PIP: This overview of the current status of the international women's movement 
traces the growth of the movement from a "trickle to a torrent" during the past 
150 years and credits the UN with providing the framework necessary for 
expanding the international policy dialogue about women's rights. The next 
section asks why this great burst of women's energy in public settings is 
occurring now and proposes that the answer can be found in the fact that a major 
transformation is creating a smaller, more interdependent world marked by rising 
productivity and environmental pressures. This transformation has also led to 
increased life expectancy and reduced fertility, thus giving women more 
productive time to be applied to education, to outside employment, to political 
organizing and community work, and to the support of nongovernmental 
organizations. The article continues by reviewing the diverse strategies used by 
women's groups, including "boring from within," applying political pressure, and 
demonstrating alternatives. After noting the existence of international networks 
that exchange successful strategies, the article concludes with an analysis of 
the processes and achievements of the 1995 Fourth Conference on Women and its 
Non-Governmental Forum.

DOI: 10.1300/J086v08n01_03
PMID: 12294809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Scand J Soc Welf. 1998 Oct;7(4):266-76. doi:
10.1111/j.1468-2397.1998.tb00247.x.

Women in Denmark--why do they die so young? Risk factors for premature death.

Helweg-larsen K, Knudsen LB, Petersson B.

"In Denmark the life expectancy of women has been declining since 1980, and is 
now the lowest of all OECD countries. Based upon analyses of the different 
trends in mortality of 35-64-year-old women in Denmark compared to women in 
Norway and Sweden, national differentials in external determinants of morbidity 
and premature mortality are described. The excess mortality of women in Denmark 
is linked to lifestyle factors: tobacco smoking, alcohol and drug consumption. 
We discuss the possible impact of other external factors...."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2397.1998.tb00247.x
PMID: 12294849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Sociol Cas. 1998;34(3):267-83.

[Temporal aspects of the Czech retirement age].

[Article in Czech]

Rabusic L.

PIP: The retirement age in the Czech Republic was 60 years for men and 55 years 
for women until 1995, when a law was passed to gradually increase it every year 
until it reached 62 years for men and 59 for women by the year 2007. The reason 
for increasing the retirement age is the rapid increase in life expectancy since 
1990 (a gain of 3 years for males between 1990 and 1997) and the fact that a 
relatively low retirement age may result in social discrimination against Czechs 
within a unified Europe. A social survey was conducted in November 1996 using a 
representative population sample of 1302 persons aged 50 years or more. The 
average retirement age for women was 55.4 years and for men 60.2 years. The 
majority of respondents irrespective of social class, educational level, and 
gender did not want an increase in the retirement age, confirming the results of 
polls conducted during 1995 and 1996. 25% of economically active respondents 
aged 50-59 (almost half of them with university degrees and 37% from cities) 
intended to continue working. 72% of the respondents 60 and over retired at the 
retirement age, 6% retired earlier, and 22% retired later. Only 40% of the 
elderly retired willingly (women more often than men). Among the rest 24% were 
hesitant about retirement, 21% did not want to retire but felt compelled to do 
for health reasons (men more often than women), and 15% did not want to retire, 
but their firms did not need them any more (men more often than women). The male 
respondents stated on average that a person was old when he reached 67.8 years, 
while female respondents on average deemed that 66.1 years represented old age. 
The increase of the retirement age to 65 is anticipated in the next 10-15 years.

