PMID: 12294865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1998 Oct;43(10):42-52.

[Life expectancy of the population in Silesia].

[Article in Polish]

Kuropka I.

PIP: The author analyzes changes in average life expectancy in Silesian 
voivodships in Poland from 1976 to 1995. Differences according to sex, age, and 
place of residence are considered. (ANNOTATION)

PMID: 12294944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Estud Demogr Urbanos Col Mex. 1998 Sep-Dec;13(3):585-608, 695.

[Legalization and dissolution of consensual unions: an example of log-linear 
models used to estimate models of competing risk].

[Article in Spanish]

Gomez De Leon J.

PIP: "This is a mainly methodological work: a generalization of the so-called 
proportional risk models to cases of multiple and competing risks.... 
Proportional risk models are an extension of the methodology implied in 
calculating mortality tables, where the risk function is made to depend on some 
variables (covariables), as in a regression model.... Life-table methodology has 
been...an essential instrument in demographic calculus and analysis." The author 
uses the proposed methods to analyze the determinants of the legalization and 
dissolution of consensual unions in Mexico. (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12294953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Demografie. 1999;41(1):38-49.

[Differential mortality by sex in the Baltic Basin].

[Article in Czech]

Tietze M.

PIP: "The article describes [the] demographic situation from the point of view 
of mortality and its differences by sex in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Finland 
and Sweden. These countries were chosen...as the representatives of two 
mortality models, which occur in contemporary Europe: ¿western' and ¿eastern' 
models. Countries of [Eastern] Europe reach higher values of mortality 
probabilities in all age groups with corresponding attained lower medium life 
span at birth." The author also considers life expectancy at older ages, male 
excess mortality, and causes of death. (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12294961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Math Popul Stud. 1999;7(2):147-59. doi: 10.1080/08898489909525452.

How old is old? Revising the definition based on life table criteria.

Denton FT, Spencer BG.

PIP: "Sixty-five has long been thought of as the point of entry into ¿old age'. 
We propose a number of life table criteria for answering the following 
questions: If 65 was considered appropriate four decades ago, what is the 
corresponding age today? If 65 was (implicitly) a male-oriented definition four 
decades ago, as we believe it was, what would have been the appropriate 
definition for women at that time, and what is it today? We address these 
questions by applying our criteria to Canada, using 1951 and 1991 life tables, 
but the criteria could be applied equally well to other countries. For other 
developed countries we would expect broadly similar results." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1080/08898489909525452
PMID: 12294988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Math Popul Stud. 1999;7(2):161-77. doi: 10.1080/08898489909525453.

A long period multistate life table using micro data.

Shavelle R, Strauss D.

PIP: "The multistate life table (MLT) has been widely used by demographers for 
the past twenty years. However, the pivotal Markov condition upon which the 
entire methodology rests is rarely satisfied in practice. We lessen reliance 
upon the assumption by computing transition probabilities for longer periods of 
time than was previously practical. An extended Kaplan-Meier estimator 
accomplishes this task, simultaneously addressing the issue of censoring.... We 
provide an illustrative example of a 10-year period MLT, with comparison to a 
1-year period MLT." The data for California are used as an illustration. 
(EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1080/08898489909525453
PMID: 12294989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J R Stat Soc Ser A Stat Soc. 1999;162(Pt. 1):5-43. doi:
10.1111/1467-985x.00119.

The long-term pattern of adult mortality and the highest attained age.

Thatcher AR.

"Recent new data on old age mortality point to a particular model for the way in 
which the probability of dying increases with age. The model is found to fit not 
only modern data but also some widely spaced historical data for the 19th and 
17th centuries, and even some estimates for the early mediaeval period. The 
results show a pattern which calls for explanation. The model can also be used 
to predict a probability distribution for the highest age which will be attained 
in given circumstances. The results are relevant to the current debate about 
whether there is a fixed upper limit to the length of human life." A discussion 
of the paper by several researchers and a reply by the author are included.

excerpt

DOI: 10.1111/1467-985x.00119
PMID: 12294994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. AIDS Anal Afr. 1999 Jun-Jul;10(1):14-5.

Local government transformation and the challenge of HIV / AIDS.

Smart R.

PIP: South Africa has one of the world's worst HIV/AIDS epidemics, with more 
men, women, and children infected than in any other country, except for India. 
The impact of HIV/AIDS-related morbidity and mortality is already apparent in 
hospitals throughout the country, and the number of deaths due to AIDS will 
increase dramatically to almost 250,000/year within 3 years. Average life 
expectancy is expected to fall from 60 years to about 40 years during 1998-2008, 
while in 2005, there will be almost 1 million children under age 15 years who 
have lost their mothers to AIDS. South Africa's HIV/AIDS epidemic seriously 
threatens the country's development and social transformation, and is a major 
obstacle to reducing poverty, with the potential to reverse many gains achieved 
during the past decade. Local governments will be most affected by HIV/AIDS, in 
terms of the expected impact upon community development programs, clinics and 
institutions, and work forces. South Africa's Constitution defines the tasks of 
local government as providing democratic and accountable government for local 
communities, ensuring the provision of services to communities in a sustainable 
manner, promoting social and economic development, promoting a safe and healthy 
environment, and encouraging the involvement of communities and community 
organizations in the affairs of local government. The characteristics of 
developmental local government are summarized as described in the new White 
Paper on Local Government, and in relation to HIV/AIDS policies and programs.

PMID: 12295122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Aff Soc Int. 1995;23(2):123-42.

[Prospects and problems facing Sub-Saharan Africa: some preliminary 
observations].

[Article in Italian]

Buccianti C.

PIP: Using published data from UN and World Bank sources, the author analyzes 
current demographic trends in the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. Data are 
presented on population size and density in 1992; and infant mortality, life 
expectancy, and fertility 1965-1995. The primary focus is on the prospects for 
effective socioeconomic development among Africas poorest countries.

PMID: 12295160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Math Popul Stud. 1999;7(3):181-216, 307. doi: 10.1080/08898489909525457.

Estimating the regional migration patterns of the foreign-born population in the 
United States: 1950-1990.

Rogers A, Raymer J.

PIP: "In this paper, we apply model schedules to graduate data on the internal 
and external regional [U.S.] migration patterns of the foreign-born population 
for the 1950-1990 period.... To find estimates of the unrecorded migration flows 
in-between for four census-defined periods in our study (that is, for 1950-1955, 
1960-1965, 1970-1975, and 1980-1985) we interpolate between the data of adjacent 
census time periods. Finally, we combine the estimated migration data with the 
corresponding mortality data to calculate and analyze the multiregional life 
tables and projections associated with each five-year time interval." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1080/08898489909525457
PMID: 12295224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Asia Pac Popul J. 1999 Mar;14(1):3-20.

Population policies and programmes in the post-ICPD era: can the Pacific Island 
countries meet the challenge?

Chee S, House WJ, Lewis L.

PIP: This article describes prospective population policies and programs that 
may be implemented in the Pacific Island Countries during the post-International 
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) era (i.e., by the year 2005, the 
target date of the ICPD Program of Action). Some of the positive indicators in 
the Pacific Islands are a high annual average income level, high average life 
expectancy by world standards, absence of absolute poverty, high overall 
literacy rates, universality of primary education, low infant mortality rate, 
availability of modern transportation and communication infrastructure, and 
accessibility of safe water supplies and health services. The challenge is to 
maintain the overall high standard of living in the Islands without taxing their 
resources. Addressing this challenge will require innovative 
population-accommodating and population-influencing policies; these would be 
incorporated into comprehensive national population and development policies and 
programs targeting reproductive health. The greatest challenge will be to 
integrate population issues fully into the development and planning process at 
time when national development policy options are very limited. National 
governments and donors should respond to this challenge to ensure the 
maintenance of past achievements and current progress in the quality of life of 
Pacific Islanders.

PMID: 12295289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Health Millions. 1999 Jul-Aug;25(4):3-5.

Making a difference. The World Health Report 1999.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The World Health Report 1999 presents a summary of the accomplishments and 
challenges in world health and underscores their implications in the 21st 
century. A remarkable progress in health conditions was recognized during this 
century, as exemplified by the increase in life expectancy in high-income 
countries. Most of the world's low- and middle-income countries have also 
experienced improvements in the quality of life and contributed to economic 
growth. On the other hand, the world's poor populations continue to suffer from 
the burden of disease and malnutrition. The reduction of this inequality is 
considered a priority in international health, together with enhancement of 
growth and decreasing poverty. Provided that global leadership and advocacy for 
health are applied in the formula for progress, the achievement of these goals 
is feasible. However, there are certain challenges ahead which need to be 
overcome, such as the burden of excess mortality and morbidity; countering 
potential threats to health; development of a more effective health system; and 
the need to invest in expanding the knowledge base.

PMID: 12295398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Health Millions. 1999 Jul-Aug;25(4):6-8.

Health in India -- a futuristic scenario.

Ali A.

PIP: There has been considerable progress in the health situation in India over 
the last five decades following its independence. Mortality decreased 
dramatically, the death rate declined from 27.4 to 8.9, and the infant mortality 
rate decreased by almost half in 1997. Life expectancy, on the other hand, 
almost doubled from 32 years at the time of independence to 62 years in 1997. 
However, there are wide variations in the values of these health indicators 
among different regions. Progress has been uneven and confined to more advanced 
states. Improvements in the health status of the people have been most notable 
in the states of Kerala, Maharashtra, and Punjab, whereas states like Madhya 
Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan had the least progress. These 
neglected areas are considered as the result of various factors in India's 
political economy, which hinders health policy development and its 
implementation. In the last part of this article, major health problems, as well 
as recommendations for remedial actions are outlined.

PMID: 12295401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Popul Today. 1999 Dec;27(12):4-5.

Shrinking societies favor procreation.

Kent MM.

PIP: Low birth rates and unprecedented improvements in life expectancy had 
brought a shrinking society to a rapidly expanding retirement-age population. In 
1999, people aged 65 and older make up 15% or more of the populations in 19 
countries. Furthermore, 14 country populations are already experiencing natural 
decrease, and a lot more will start to decline early in the 21st century. Due to 
this predicament, concerned countries have created policies that may encourage 
more childbearing by easing the opportunity costs of raising children. Among the 
policies are: 1) paid maternity and paternity leaves until a child is 2-3 years; 
2) free child care; 3) tax breaks for large families; 4) family housing 
allowance; 5) cash paid to parents for raising a child. Governments of the 
shrinking societies believed that these policies could influence fertility 
because it affects the socioeconomic setting in which childbearing decisions are 
made. This paper also discusses Hungary, Japan, and Sweden fertility policies.

PMID: 12295635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Popul Today. 2000 Jan;28(1):1-2.

Looking back at the century of population.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article reports experts' views on the important population trends and 
events observed in the 20th century. One expert mentioned that demographically 
the 20th century was the most remarkable century ever. Among its major features 
were the following: highest rate of growth; highest annual increment; shortest 
period in history to add 1 billion people; unprecedented decline in fertility; 
unparalleled increases in life expectancy, with dramatic declines in mortality; 
and rapid urbanization and the emergence of megacities. An expert from Paris 
cited changes in ethnic composition in the US and changes in the religious 
composition of Europe. Among the events considered as important population 
trends for the 20th century are the following: fertility decline; increase in 
proportion of older persons; development of hormonal contraceptives; stagnation 
of population growth in economically rich and industrialized countries; literacy 
rate of the population; promotion of gender equality and equity; women's 
empowerment; adoption of broad reproductive health/rights policies; and 
prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS.

PMID: 12295707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. D Cent Am. 1992;(Suppl):9-11.

[Nutrition and population of the third age].

[Article in Spanish]

Bressani R.

PIP: In old age, muscle mass is lost, while fat increases, and the body contains 
less water. The loss of muscle mass can be somewhat compensated by physical 
activities and also depends to a large extent on the state of nutrition. 
Osteoporosis and the fractures of the neck of the femur are also frequent 
occurrences in this age. Various chronic circulatory and organ-related diseases 
also affect this population at an increasingly higher rate than middle age or 
younger populations. Loneliness, reduced income, the perception of being 
useless, the inability to enjoy things are other factors that even have an 
effect on the ingestion of nutrients. In 1980, in Latin America, 6.3% of the 
total population were people 60 years or older, and by the year 2000 this 
segment will rise to 7.2% of the total population. In Guatemala, in 1980, this 
age segment made up 4.5% of the population, whereas by 2000 it is estimated to 
rise to 5.8%. These figures will increase with time in view of the fact that 
life expectancy in 1980-85 was 60.7 years in Guatemala, and it will be 68.0 
years by 1995-2000. Moreover, biological and chronological age may be very 
different, since some are vigorous, strong, and independent, while others have 
chronic diseases, which fact should be addressed by health and nutrition 
programs.

PMID: 12295847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Village Voice. 1999 Nov 23;44(46):61-2, 65-6.

AIDS: the agony of Africa. Part Three: Africa responds. Bereft of medicine and 
money, traditional cultures mobilize in a new way.

Schoofs M.

PIP: Africa's response to AIDS is often depicted to be as dysfunctional as its 
economy. Only a handful of African governments have mobilized a response 
remotely commensurate with the magnitude of the epidemic, which has already 
decreased life expectancy by as much as 20 years in some countries. In Zimbabwe, 
where a quarter of the people aged 15-49 years are infected with HIV, the 
response to the AIDS epidemic can be found in extremes. While the government is 
spending more than 70 times the budget of the AIDS Programme on its military 
intervention in the Democratic Republic of Congo, individual communities are 
setting up vigorous responses to AIDS. The Insiza Godlwayo AIDS Council (IGAC) 
is one such group organized by individual communities and headed by ordinary 
peasant farmers. IGAC specializes in home-based care and orphan support; it has 
also launched a youth prevention campaign. It has 500 active volunteers and 
another 500 who help out as needed. With an annual budget of less than 
US$17,000, volunteers are asked to pay dues, give food and other necessities 
directly to their patients. The response of IGAC to AIDS is a reclamation of the 
age-old ways that enabled African communities to withstand previous scourges. 
IGAC is successful because villagers have been mobilized and banded together for 
communal endeavors.

PMID: 12295980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Asia Pac Popul J. 2000 Mar;15(1):19-40.

Improvement in female survival: a quiet revolution in Bangladesh.

Datta AK, Bairagi R.

PIP: This article examined the time trends of mortality and made a relative 
comparison of the mortality changes between males and females in different age 
groups in a rural area in Bangladesh between 1970 and 1995. Data from the Matlab 
Demographic Surveillance System were used for the study. Two areas were 
compared: 1) the maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP) area and 2) 
the other area known as the comparison area. Data showed that the mortality 
situation improved in both areas in every age group within the study period. 
However, the improvement was much greater for females in infancy and at ages 1-4 
and 5-14. While improvement was seen in both areas, greater improvement was 
observed in the MCH/FP area, indicating a gain in life expectancy that is 
greater in females than in males. These improvements, however, were still below 
expectation for infants and children in the 1-4 age group. Thus, more efforts 
need to be exerted to maintain the improvement in female survival and eliminate 
excess female child mortality in Bangladesh.

PMID: 12295993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Pop Sahel. 1999 Dec;(28):50-1.

[Doctoral thesis: Demographic growth and economic and social development in 
Mali].

[Article in French]

Dabo K.

PIP: A doctoral thesis is described analyzing the relationships between 
demographic growth and economic and social development in Mali. The hypothesis 
is stated that demographic growth impedes economic development and any 
improvement in populations¿ standards of living. The hypothesis was verified 
using data for the period from 1960 to the present. Over that period, Mali 
conducted two general population censuses in 1976 and 1987, as well as several 
demographic research studies. The thesis is comprised of 4 parts, of which the 
first generally describes Mali. The second part analyzes the relationship 
between population growth and economic and social development in Mali. Study 
results are presented, followed by an analysis of the effects of economic and 
social development upon population growth in Mali through factors such as 
urbanization, education level, literacy, income, employment, occupation, gross 
domestic or gross national product by inhabitant, infant mortality rate, life 
expectancy at birth, contraceptive practice, fertility opinions and desires, 
women¿s status, and migration in Mali. Analysis indicates that Mali has not 
completely begun its demographic transition, but that traditional pronatalist 
behaviors are changing. Population policies and programs are explored in the 
third part of the thesis, followed by the fourth part which focuses upon 
methodological questions.

PMID: 12296197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Biol Chem. 2002 Nov 22;277(47):45099-107. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M205670200.
Epub  2002 Sep 23.

Inhibition of silencing and accelerated aging by nicotinamide, a putative 
negative regulator of yeast sir2 and human SIRT1.

Bitterman KJ(1), Anderson RM, Cohen HY, Latorre-Esteves M, Sinclair DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

The Saccharomyces cerevisiae Sir2 protein is an NAD(+)-dependent histone 
deacetylase that plays a critical role in transcriptional silencing, genome 
stability, and longevity. A human homologue of Sir2, SIRT1, regulates the 
activity of the p53 tumor suppressor and inhibits apoptosis. The Sir2 
deacetylation reaction generates two products: O-acetyl-ADP-ribose and 
nicotinamide, a precursor of nicotinic acid and a form of niacin/vitamin B(3). 
We show here that nicotinamide strongly inhibits yeast silencing, increases rDNA 
recombination, and shortens replicative life span to that of a sir2 mutant. 
Nicotinamide abolishes silencing and leads to an eventual delocalization of Sir2 
even in G(1)-arrested cells, demonstrating that silent heterochromatin requires 
continual Sir2 activity. We show that physiological concentrations of 
nicotinamide noncompetitively inhibit both Sir2 and SIRT1 in vitro. The degree 
of inhibition by nicotinamide (IC(50) < 50 microm) is equal to or better than 
the most effective known synthetic inhibitors of this class of proteins. We 
propose a model whereby nicotinamide inhibits deacetylation by binding to a 
conserved pocket adjacent to NAD(+), thereby blocking NAD(+) hydrolysis. We 
discuss the possibility that nicotinamide is a physiologically relevant 
regulator of Sir2 enzymes.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M205670200
PMID: 12297502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Rev Biol Trop. 2002 Mar;50(1):127-34.

The natural history of the mud-dauber wasp Sceliphron fistularium (Hymenoptera: 
Sphecidae) in southeastern Brazil.

Camillo E(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Filosofia Ciências e Letras de 
Ribeirão Preto-USP, 14040-901, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil. 
ecamillo@ffclrp.usp.br

Nests of Sceliphron fistularium were obtained in Colombia and Moji Guaçu, São 
Paulo, Brazil. Complete nests consisted of 1 to 54 sausage-shaped cells, 
arranged side by side along a horizontal axis, and found attached to electrical 
wires (Colombia, n = 7) and walls (Colombia, n = 4 and Moji Guaçu, n = 4). The 
number of cells per nest ranged from 1 to 54, their length varying from 20.8 to 
29.7 mm, and their diameter from 7.6 to 11.7 mm. Brood cells were provisioned 
with spiders of the family Araneidae. Only Alpaida veniliae was collected in 
Colombia, whereas the most frequent species found in Moji Guaçu was Micrathena 
swainsoni (62.0%) followed by M. acuta (23.3%). Adults emerged from June to 
October. The length and diameter of female and male cells were similar. 
Nevertheless, females were significantly larger than males. The sex ratio of 
individuals obtained from nests was 1.16 females: 1 male. A life table was 
constructed, and details of the life cycle of the wasps and parasitoids are 
presented. The most common mortality factors were either unknown or due to the 
parasitoid wasp Melittobia sp.

PMID: 12298237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Rev Biol Trop. 2002 Mar;50(1):145-53.

[Population growth rate of the depredating Podisus nigrispinus (Heteroptera: 
Pentatomidae) and of the Tuta absoluta (Leptoptera: gelechiidae) in wintering 
place].

[Article in Spanish]

Vivan LM(1), Torres JB, Barros R, Veiga AF.

Author information:
(1)DEPA-Fitossanidade, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Av. Dom Manoel 
de Medeiros s/n, Dois Irmãos, 52171-900, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

The fertility life table of Podisus nigrispinus (Dallas) (Heteroptera: 
Pentatomidae) preying either on Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: 
Gelechiidae) caterpillars or on alternative prey Tenebrio molitor L. 
(Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) under greenhouse conditions (30 +/- 5 degrees C, 61 
+/- 23% RH) were studied. The life table was also determined for the pest T. 
absoluta under the same conditions. The net reproductive rate (Ro) and the 
intrinsic rate of natural increase (rm) were higher 14.13 and 46.32 times for 
predators fed on T. molitor prey, however, the generation time (T) was similar 
between prey. The pest T. absoluta showed Ro and rm higher 2.15 and 32.10 times 
than those achieved for predators fed on this pest. However, females fed on a 
suitable prey T. molitor showed higher Ro and rm than those yielded for the 
pest. The survival curves were similar for P. nigrispinus females fed on both 
prey and classified as being type II by Weibull analysis. The results suggest 
that P. nigrispinus is able to maintain its population preying only on T. 
absoluta caterpillars; however, the life table parameters determined 
individually for both showed that the pest produces more generations per year 
and faster population natural growth than the predator.

PMID: 12298240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Bull Gandhigram Inst Rural Health Fam Welf Trust. 1972 Mar;6(3):229-44.

Life table analyses of amenorrhoea and lactation and their relationship in a 
rural south Indian population.

Krishnamoorthy S, Muthiah A.

PIP: This report attempts to provide estimates of the length of amenorrhea and 
lactations for a rural population based on data from a prospective survey and by 
using life table techniques. Amenorrhea is studied in relation to age, partiy, 
nature of pregnancy termination, and lactation duration in married women for 
possible differentials. To study the relationship between lactation and 
amenorrheaa prospective Standard Fertility Survey with a stratified random 
sample of about 3000 households was carried out in Athoor Block, Madurai 
District, Tamil Nadu, by the Gandhigram Institute of Rural Health and Family 
Planning. The study results indicate, from the analysis of women whose lactation 
is shorter than their amenorrhea length, that lactation has a strong influence 
on the length of menstruation; no matter how many months lactation continues, 
the additional mean months of amenorrhea after cessation are usually 2-3. This 
result is supplemented by the fact that women who lactate longer have longer 
amenorrhea than those with shorter lactation. The latter result may be a little 
biased because in this analysis lactation during menstruating interval also is 
used. The relationship of age to amenorrhea lenth is positive. When women 
lactate a year or more, there could be an increase of 1 to 2 months of 
amenorrhoea from younger to older women. Thus, the older women who have lengthy 
amenorrhea have more chances of being omitted in this analysis because of the 
study design and so the increase in amenorrhea length by age is understated. It 
would be inferred then that the effect of age on amenorrhea length could be more 
than indicated.

PMID: 12306240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Christ Med Assoc India. 1974 Aug;49(8):382-6.

Estimation of births averted due to sterilizations done in mass vasectomy camps 
organised in Bihar during 1972-1973.

Sinha AB, Dastidar SK.

PMID: 12309365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Finance Dev. 1979 Dec;16(4):23-6.

Country experience in providing for basic needs.

Stewart F.

PIP: The basic needs approach to development--i.e., providing such basic needs 
as health and education to the poorest sectors of the population--replaced a 
previous emphasis on general economic development. Basic needs include food, 
nutrition, health services, education, water, sanitation, and shelter. A World 
Bank study to evaluate the success of developing countries in meeting their 
populations' basic needs discloses great disparity among countries. The study 
used literacy and life expectancy figures for the evaluation. All developing 
countries had improved their provision of basic goods and services in the time 
between 1960 and 1977, but the improvement was not uniform. The countries' 
previous performance in this area and the national level of per capita income 
influenced their improved performance. Countries having egalitarian income 
distributions tended to perform better than would have been expected from the 
per capita income alone; countries with maldistributed incomes tended to perform 
worse. The following 3 types of economies were most successful in providing 
basic goods/services for their populations: 1) rapidly growing, market-oriented 
economies; 2) centrally planned economies; and 3) "mixed" economies with welfare 
intervention. Very poor economies, those with rapid growth and no substantial 
poverty reduction, and those with moderate growth and moderate poverty reduction 
were less successful. Macroeconomic frameworks can provide guidelines.

PMID: 12309637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1980 Feb;6(3):5-8.

The impact of alternative mortality assumptions on own-children estimates of 
fertility for Thailand.

Retherford RD, Chamratrithirong A, Wanglee A.

PIP: Own-children fertility estimates are somewhat in error when the life tables 
used in generating them assume constant mortality, as when reliable life tables 
are available for only a single date in the recent past. When they are specified 
by geographic subdivision and socioeconomic characteristics, they are somewhat 
in error when the life tables used in generating them lack geographic and 
socioeconomic detail. This paper attempts to assess the general magnitude of 
these errors, by generating and comparing several sets of own-children fertility 
estimates from the 1970 Census of Thailand, based on 3 alternative mortality 
assumptions: 1) That mortality was constant during the 15 years previous to the 
1970 Census at specified levels. 2) & 3) That mortality conforms to a set of 
changing life tables, the estimates in these cases deriving from different 
calculations. To illustrate the impact of the alternative mortality assumptions, 
own-children fertility estimates are examined by region, rural-urban residence, 
and education. The authors conclude that the error in own-children fertility 
estimates caused by using constant mortality is small (less than 2% for 
Thailand). The error in regional fertility estimates is also 2% or less, and the 
errors in residence-specific and education-specific fertility estimates are also 
small (less than 5 and 8%). Unfortunately, the assumption of similar mortality 
across geographic subdivisions and socioeconomic characteristics results in 
errors of own-children fertility estimates for these factors that are not 
unidirectional. Given the positive association between mortality and fertility 
levels, the result is that fertility levels are usually underestimated. Although 
absolute errors in estimated fertility differentials are usually small, relative 
errors are frequently large.

PMID: 12309771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1978 Jun-Dec;12(1-2):53-8.

Critical analysis of Egyptian causes of death statistics.

Husein MH.

PIP: A model life table system -- a simplified description of mortality patterns 
with a limited number of modes of variation -- was used to analyze Egyptian 
causes of death statistics. The mortality rates for Egypt in several cause 
categories were found to be notably lower than of the reference mix. Figures 
consistently showed that for either sex or year the Egyptian mortality mix has 
relatively small respiratory tuberculosis, respiratory system diseases and 
ciolence components. Also, maternal mortality in both 1962 and 1971 was lower 
than that of the reference mix. In 1962 the data indicate a relatively small 
other infectious and parasitic component, but data in 1971 showed a considerable 
increase. The better fit of the model to the mortality statistics in 1972 
suggests more accurate and complete cause of death data in 1972. Better causes 
of death data can be obtained by the following: 1) notification only directly to 
the local physician; 2) familiarity of the physician with the different lists of 
cause of death classification and their common principle; and 3) keeping the 
physician up to date with the used list of classification.

PMID: 12309868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Popul Index. 1980 Summer;46(2):179-202.

Estimating the completeness of reporting of adult deaths in populations that are 
approximately stable.

Preston S, Coale AJ, Trussell J, Weinstein M.

PIP: An elaboration of Preston's (Preston and Hill, 1980) procedure for 
determining the completeness with which deaths are recorded in approximately 
stable populations is presented. Both the procedures of Preston and that of 
Brass are conventionally limited to mortality beyond early childhood, to 
mortality above age 5 or age 10. The method considered here is based on 
characteristics of stable populations, i.e., populations that have been subject 
for a long time to little variation in age-specific mortality schedules or in 
overall levels of fertility. The essential features of a stable population are 
maintained even if fertility has changed. This is the case as long as no strong 
trend in fertility existed more than 15 or 20 years before the date at which the 
population is observed. Recent changes in fertility may affect the structure of 
the population at adult ages, but the effect on estimates of completeness of 
death records can generally be kept within tolerably narrow limits. Prior to 
showing how explicit estimates of the relative completeness of recording of 
numbers of deaths and persons can be derived from counts of deaths and persons 
by age, it is noted that a life table for a stable population can be constructed 
directly from the recorded distribution of deaths by age, or from the recorded 
distribution of persons. The procedures described are applied to several 
different populations in order to illustrate the computational steps necessary 
to estimate the completeness of death records at ages above childhood in 
populations that are approximately stable.

PMID: 12310104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Economist (Leiden). 1980;128(4):530-57. doi: 10.1007/BF01705858.

Socioeconomic equity and fertility in developing countries: a block-recursive 
model.

Winegarden CR.

PIP: The relationship between fertility and socioeconomic equity is explored by 
analyzing data from developing countries to assess the interaction between 4 
variables: fertility, life expectancy, schooling, and income distribution. The 
theoretical model, based on findings of many past studies, is presented, and the 
results of regression analysis of fertility and socioeconomic variables are 
tabulated and discussed. The results indicate that life expectancy and schooling 
are major determinants of fertility. Income equity, contrary to expectations, 
did not influence fertility very much; fertility, however, did affect income 
equity considerably. Policy directions based on these findings are suggested and 
sources of data are cited.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01705858
PMID: 12310370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Popul Policy Compend. 1980 Aug:1-7.

Guinea.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs; United 
Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: The government of Guinea's overall approach to population problems is 
direct intervention to achieve developmental objectives that will results in 
self-adjustment of demographic trends. No comprehensive policy exists, but set 
measures concerning mortality and spatial distribution in the framework of 
societal restructuring does. A high level of fertility is considered desirable. 
In 1980 the population numbered 5,014,000; the rate of population growth from 
1975-80 was 2.5%. The rate of natural increase was 2.5%. The life expectancy at 
birth from 1975-80 was 43.5 years. The levels of morbidity and mortality for 
infants and mothers are unacceptable. The policy is to extend coverage of health 
care services to the entire population. The crude birth rate from 1975-80 was 
46.1/1000. The gross reproduction rate was 3.1; the net reproduction rate was 2. 
The average caloric per capita intake per day in 1974 was 1943. 19.1% of the 
population was urban in 1980; the rate of urban growth was 5.7% form 1975-80. 
Policy is to bring about technological and organizational restructuring of 
population and to a lesser extent, bring about change in the configuration of 
the population itself. Immigration is not favored, and movements across borders 
are restricted. To avoid a brain drain, almost all students are trained within 
the country. 85% of the labor force is in agriculture.

PMID: 12310420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Popul Policy Compend. 1980 Sep:1-5.

United Republic of Tanzania. United Nations. Department of International 
Economic and Social Affairs. United Nations Fund for Population Assistance.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In the United Republic of Tanzania, no policy of intervention to modify 
fertility or population growth is espoused by the government. The major emphasis 
is on adjusting patterns of spatial distribution. Health and family planning 
programs are supporting elements of rural development policy and do not have 
specific demographic objectives. Although government has not formulated a global 
population policy, it has an implicit population policy in such areas as rural 
development, health, and education. The total population numbers 17,934,000 
(1980), and the rate of growth from 1975-80 was 3.1. In the same period of life 
expectancy at birth was 50.5 years. The crude birth rate was 46.3; the gross 
reproduction rate was 3.2; and, the net reproduction rate was 2.4. The 
emigration policy has banned movement to certain countries; a liberal policy 
encourages rural settlement of refugees. Abortion is illegal. Sterilization is 
allowed on medical grounds only. The level and trends of morbidity and mortality 
are unacceptable. The policy orientation is toward preventive, primary care, 
with emphasis on rural areas. The family planning policy is one of intervention 
only in respect to family well-being. The government supports family planning, 
education and communication programs and maternal child health programs.

PMID: 12310425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Popul Policy Compend. 1980 Sep:1-5.

Ecuador.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Attention is directed to the following in this discussion of Ecuador: 
history of the country's demographic situation; the government's overall 
approach to population problems; statistical systems and development planning; 
institutional arrangements for the integration of population within development 
planning; the government's view of the importance of population policy in 
achieving development objectives; population size, growth and natural increase; 
morbidity and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial 
distribution. Ecuador has no policy of intervention to modify fertility or 
population growth. The official policy is to increase immigration and to modify 
spacial distribution. 3 censuses have been conducted since 1950, with the latest 
census in 1974. The United Nations has classified the vital registration 
statistics as unreliable. Ecuador's population, estimated at 7.8 million in 
mid-1978, is growing rapidly--at an average annual rate of 3.4%. The increase in 
Ecuador's population growth rate is due primarily to changes in mortality. The 
crude death rate declined by about 65%--from 29/1000 in 1920-1924 to about 
10/1000 in 1970-1974. The level of life expectancy rose to 59.1 for males and 
61.8 for females. Fertility levels have not changed significantly in decades. 
The crude birth rate, which was about 48/1000 in the early 1920s, is estimated 
to have declined to about 45/1000 in the 1st half of the 1970s. The total 
fertility rate is now about 6.7. The government has been moving in the direction 
of formulating a more explicit population policy.

PMID: 12310426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Data Asia. 1981 Nov 23-29;10(48):8490.

China. Population. New threat.

[No authors listed]

Although China's population growth rate in 1980 was the lowest in 31 years, 
doubling of marriages and increasing life expectancy have emerged as threats to 
the government plan to hold national population growth to 1200 million by the 
end of the present century, a Beijing official magazine reported. Liaowang 
(Observation), published by the government's Xinhua news agency, quoted state 
family planning officials as saying that a subsequent doubling of marriages this 
year "threatens another baby boom in the world's most populous nation." The 
officials said the country's population stood at 982.55 million at the end of 
1980, roughly equivalent to 20% of the world's total. According to the magazine, 
the natural population growth rate declined to 8.97 million last year as the 
number of births fell to 14.99 million and that of deaths stood at 6.02 million. 
During the past decade, the natural increase rate of China's population dropped 
from 26/1000 in 1970 to just 12/1000 in 1980. Owing to increase in production 
and living standards, along with expansion and improvement of medical 
facilities, the mortality rate fell from almost 30/1000 before the founding of 
the People's Republic of China to around 6-8/1000 by the 1970s. According to 
U.N. statistics prepared for the recently-held international conference on 
population and development in Beijing, China succeeded in reducing its birth 
rate by as much as 23.1% between 1960-65 and 1970-75. But such accomplishment is 
now in danger of being wiped out by a new birth peak expected during the next 10 
or more years as those born during the baby boom of the 1960s reached 
childbearing age during the present decade. In addition, the population control 
program is also threatened by the rising life expectancy of the Chinese people. 
Latest statistics compiled by the Ministry of Public Health showed that the 
average life span of the Chinese population had doubled to 68 years in 1980 from 
35 years in 1949.

full text

PMID: 12310431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Stat Notes Jpn. 1979;(36):67-81.

Simplified life tables for 1977.

Japan. Office of Statistical Standards.

PMID: 12310653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Popul Policy Compend. 1981 May:1-7.

China.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations. Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PMID: 12310685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Am Stat Assoc. 1979;74(368):761-76. doi: 10.1080/01621459.1979.10481029.

A general algorithm for estimating a Markov-generated increment-decrement life 
table with applications to marital-status patterns.

Schoen R, Land KC.

DOI: 10.1080/01621459.1979.10481029
PMID: 12310718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Scand Actuar J. 1977;(1):1-20. doi: 10.1080/03461238.1977.10405621.

A Markov chain model of working life tables.

Hoem JM.

DOI: 10.1080/03461238.1977.10405621
PMID: 12310789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Pak Dev Rev. 1977;16(2):208-19.

Estimation of adult mortality from widowhood information.

Kabir M.

PMID: 12310924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Genus. 1980 Jan-Jun;36(1-2):11-22.

Factors of mortality in developing countries: a principal components analysis.

Wunsch G.

PIP: Principal components analysis (orthogonal and oblique) was applied to the 
95 life tables from developing countries assembled under the OECD-Louvain 
mortality project, after incomplete of deficient data were discarded. The same 
method was also applied to the 4 "families" of life-tables derived from the 
entire data set. The advantage of principal components analysis was locating the 
probabilities of dying (by age and by sex) which were principally responsible 
for the dispersion of the data and showing their impact independently from each 
other, if orthogonal axes were assumed. Once the level of mortality was 
extracted, 4 factors explained the residual variance. Both in the entire data 
set and in each of the "regional" families, variations in female mortality were 
primarily due to a maternal mortality component, to components at post- and 
pre-maternal ages, and to a lesser extent, to an infant mortality component. 4 
mortality components were also observed for males, in the entire data set, at 
slightly higher ages than for females. Latent morality factors differed between 
families of life-tables. Taking into consideration the data inadequacies, study 
results may facilitate distinguishing patterns of age-specific mortality in 
developing countries and guiding further research on the determinants of 
mortality in high mortality areas.

PMID: 12311007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am Univ Field Staff Rep Afr. 1981;(31):1-14.

Population and development in Egypt. Part 1. Birth and death on the Nile.

Gallagher CF.

PIP: Discussion focus in this report of population and development in Egypt is 
on birth and death. The estimated crude birth rate (CBR) in 1979 was 39.3/1000 
and the death rate (DR) 10.3/1000, with a consequent rate of natural increase 
(RNI) of 2.9%. These statistics provide little information about demographic 
trends of recent years and future probabilities. The overall increase in 
population during the decade of the 1970s was more than 9 million, compared to 
slightly less than 7 million during the 1960s. There has been a steady increase 
in the CBR each year since 1972, when a slow, secular decline came to an end. 
Mortality has recently been declining faster than expected. The decline in 
general mortality is in good part because of recent reductions in infant (under 
1 year) and early childhood (1-4 years) mortality. The combination of recently 
resurgent fertility and declining mortality means that the Egyptian RNI is now 
higher than it was in 1952. It is the loss of momentum and the wasting of 
precious time in the race between development and population growth that must be 
emphasized. There is no other developing country where the RNI declined by as 
much as Egypt's did -- from 2.74% to just under 2% -- and where such decline was 
followed by a reversal. With the benefit of hindsight, there are grounds for 
believing that the 1966-1972 fertility decline was less a consequence of the 
National Family Planning Program than it was of other concomitant factors. The 
number of acceptors of the government programs was never very high in relation 
to the target population. By the end of the period of decline in 1973, the 
program was reaching less than 8% as oral contraceptive (OC) acceptors out of a 
total of just more than 5 million married women aged 15-44 with an addition 
70,000 IUD insertions per year. Weaknesses in the program include the choice of 
the model, the strategy used to put it into effect, and numerous details of its 
execution; a technicist approach with little consideration given to familial, 
social, economic or cultural pressures; failure to train personnel adequately; 
and a top-heavy bureaucratic framework. The 9 points of the population policy 
goal for reducing the birth rate are listed.

PMID: 12311041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Bol Demogr. 1980 Jul-Sep;11(1):72-102.

[Fertility and development in Brazil: an analysis with linear models].

[Article in Portuguese]

Costa MA.

PIP: This paper attempts to verify some relationships between reproduction and 
social variables in Brazil by analyzing results obtained by the regression 
technique with linear models; data utilized are from the period 1960-70. 
Variables considered are urbanization, size of cities, life expectancy at birth, 
level of health and of sanitary conditions, per capita income and industrial 
production, level of economic development, proportion of men and women aged 
20-54 with 5 or 10 years of education, educational level of the population, 
participation of women in the labour force, level of modernization, and 
percentage of people living in homes with electricity, running water, and 
sanitary facilities, and living conditions of the population. Some of the 
findings are: 1) there is no causal relationship among urbanization, mortality, 
and fertility; 2) more men than women tend to break with traditional 
reproductive patterns when exposed to higher degrees of education; 3) level of 
family income is strongly and negatively related to level of reproduction; 4) 
fertility is related with the survival rate of members of the family, especially 
children; this relationship does not stem so much from economic as from 
sentimental, social, and religious factors. These results, while demonstrating 
the complex relationship between fertility and social and economic development 
in Brazil, are not complete and not totally reliable. Analysis of the same data 
must be done with other techniques as well.

PMID: 12311082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1978;23(8):1-4.

[Life tables for people of working age: Part 1].

[Article in Polish]

Aleksinska J.

PMID: 12311112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
