

189. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1978;23(8):9-12.

[Impact of infant mortality on average life duration, 1950-1976].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M.

PMID: 12311114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1976;9(1):1-13.

[Comparison between different methods of preparing abbreviated life tables].

[Article in Arabic]

Abdul-ela Ala.

PMID: 12311115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Rev Cuhana Adm Salud. 1977;3(4):351-63.

[Mortality levels in Cuba during the twentieth century].

[Article in Spanish]

Farnos Morejon A.

PMID: 12311129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Colloq Natx Cent Natl Rech Sci. 1977;(934):129-39.

[Life tables for Turkey].

[Article in French]

Behar L.

PMID: 12311144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Demografie. 1979;21(3):276-8.

[Life tables, 1976].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 12311235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1975;22(4):18-21.

[Duration of biological and occupational life according to generations].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M.

PMID: 12311262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Bull Trimest Inst Actuaires Francais. 1980;91(310):14-30.

[Elements of a table of intrauterine mortality].

[Article in French]

Damiani P.

PIP: Vital statistics data for France are used to construct life tables of 
intrauterine mortality beginning with a gestation period of six months. The 
available statistics are indicated, corrections are made to adjust for 
incomplete data, and life tables are presented for the years 1926, 1954, 1962, 
and 1968. The results for 1968 are compared with a U.S. table of intrauterine 
mortality and with a French table of infant mortality

PMID: 12311280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Demografie. 1980;22(2):180-2.

[Regional life tables, 1976-1977].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 12311288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Statistica. 1977;37(3):271-83.

[On the recent evolution of life expectancy at birth in the Italian regions].

[Article in Italian]

Di Comite L, Moretti E.

PMID: 12311335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Statistica. 1977;37(3):387-92.

[Effectiveness of Bernoulli's distribution in constructing life tables].

[Article in Italian]

Lombardo E.

PMID: 12311336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Studia Demogr. 1976;(46):103-10.

[Life expectancy by sex and causes of excess male mortality in Yugoslavia].

[Article in Polish]

Breznik D.

PMID: 12311344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Thai Assoc Volunt Steriliz. 1981 Dec:57-74.

Impact of contraceptive practice on child spacing. A life table analysis of 
birth intervals of urban and rural Thai women, 1979.

Orapin Singhadej, Keller T, Palmore JA.

PIP: The effect of contraceptive utilization on the interval of time elapsing 
between births (childspacing) for urban and rural married women in Thailand is 
revealed using a life table analysis. The analysis also computed the 
childspacing pattern of both samples in 2 periods of time, before (1955-69) and 
after (1970-78) the beginning of Thailand's National Family Planning Program 
(NFPP). A sample of 1104 urban and 678 rural women of reproductive age were 
interviewed between 1978 and 1980. In addition to demographic information, the 
questionnaire collected data on pregnancy histories, including duration of 
lactation, and contraceptive practices. The age distribution of the women in 
both samples is almost identical, and the demographic characteristics follow 
established urban and rural patterns: urban populations have smaller families, a 
smaller percentage of live births, and a higher percentage currently practicing 
birth control. The life table analysis demonstrated that the probability of 
terminating all birth intervals (i.e., the 1st 6 months after a birth and every 
6 months after, up to 60 months exposure) was less for the urban sample than for 
the rural sample. This is explained in part by the earlier introduction of birth 
control methods into the urban areas and the more frequent choice of permanent 
methods, e.g., sterilization, on the part of urban populations. The urban women 
who practiced contraception showed almost an identical pattern of terminating 
birth intervals before and after the beginning of NFPP. Compared to urban 
contraceptors, the percentage of women who delayed terminations was smaller in 
the subsample of urban women who did not use birth control.

PMID: 12311581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Ko Hsueh Tung Pao. 1981;26(7):585-7.

A remark on life expectancy of population systems.

Song J.

PIP: The author presents a formula for calculating the life expectancy of 
individuals at any age in a given population system. The accuracy of this method 
is evaluated and compared with results obtained using the life table method

PMID: 12311643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Acta Univ Carol Geogr. 1980;15(2):33-52.

[The significance of infant mortality in demographic reproduction].

[Article in French]

Rychtarikova J.

PIP: The author calculates the gains in expectation of life at birth that can be 
attributed to declines in infant mortality in Sweden, France, the Czech regions, 
and Slovakia. Data are for various periods from 1780 to 1978. The methodology 
used in the calculations is discussed (SUMMARY IN CZE)

PMID: 12311660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Demografie. 1981;23(1):86-9.

[Life tables by districts: Western Bohemia, 1975-1977].

[Article in Czech]

Ales M.

PMID: 12311710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Popul Policy Compend. 1981 Nov:1-7.

Nigeria.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Nigeria's 1980 population size is 77,082,000 with a midestimate of 
149,965,000 by the year 2000. Population growth is estimated at 3% and the 
government believes that this rate is satisfactory given a longrun perspective 
even though problems such as pressure on resources and unemployment do exist. 
Life expectancy is 47.5 years and morbidity and mortality trends are considered 
unacceptable; there is a policy to reduce mortality through primary health care. 
The crude birth rate is 49.8% which is deemed satisfactory while admitting such 
problems as low levels of maternal and child health, short birth intervals, and 
malnutrition. Integration of family planning within a maternal health policy is 
the current practice while abortion is restricted and contraceptives are 
available only through the government. 20.4% of the population live in urban 
areas and the rate of urban growth is 5.5%. Policies exist to encourage 
rural-urban migration and to slow down the growth of Greater Lagos by developing 
a new national capital. The government of Nigeria approaches population as a 
quality of life matter; policies emphasize lowering morbidity and mortality and 
keeping urbanization within manageable proportions. Censuses have been conducted 
since 1866 although the 1st modern census was in 1952/53, and the latest is the 
1962 census. The National Population Commission which implements population 
policy and coordinates external support for family planning is located within 
the Central Planning Office. The government plans to establish a federal 
population unit attached to the Central Planning Office, as well as to develop 
state units.

PMID: 12311800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 Mar:1-7.

Jamaica.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: A brief table highlighting demographic indicators, current perceptions, and 
policies and measures relating to Jamaica's population is accompanied by a text 
elaborating on the government's perception of demographic problems and on 
policies and measures actually adopted as of March 1982. Despite a longstanding 
tradition of emigration for employment and a decline in the crude birth rate 
from 42.1/1000 in the late 1950s to 28.1/1000 in 1975-80, the rate of population 
growth of 1.4% per year is considered too high in terms of Jamaica's chronic 
unemployment, 24% in 1980, and serious economic problems. Official policy is to 
decrease population growth, chiefly by modifying fertility and encouraging 
migration. Jamaica has good census and vital registration data, and a population 
research program has been introduced in the University of the West Indies. The 
present government has been issuing annual budgets but has not published a 
formal plan. The government has been working toward the establishment of a 
Population and Development Planning Unit within the National Planning Agency and 
formulation of a population policy that is more closely tied to overall 
development plans. The Jamaican government was 1 of the 1st in Latin America to 
become concerned with population issues, launching a National Family Planning 
Program in 1966 which followed a long history of activities by the Jamaican 
Family Planning Associaton. According to World Fertility Survey data, the total 
fertility rate dropped from 6.6 children/woman in 1963 to less than 4 in 1975, 
but removal of a large proportion of the prime childbearing age population 
through emigration played a role in the decline. The government's multifaceted 
family planning strategy combining family planning, outreach programs, and mass 
media campaigns have contributed to the continuing decline in fertility, but the 
attempt to curtail emigration of highly skilled workers while encouraging 
emigration of unskilled workers has been largely unsuccessful. Labor-intensive 
projects have received considerable attention under different governments as a 
means of reducing unemployment, but despite these and other policies aimed at 
socioeconomic restructuring, Jamaica faced deepening economic problems by the 
mid 1970s. Life expectancy at birth was 70.1 in 1975-80, but infant mortality 
was 30.1/1000. Primary health care, particularly in rural areas, is provided 
through a network of health centers backed up by teams of multipurpose health 
workers.

PMID: 12311841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Thai Assoc Volunt Steriliz. 1981 Dec;(3):57-74.

Impact of contraceptive practice on child spacing. A life table analysis of 
birth intervals of urban and rural women, 1979.

Singhadej O, Keller T, Palmore JA.

PIP: Application of life table analysis of birth intervals of rural and urban 
Thai women to demonstrate the impact of contraceptive practice on child spacing. 
A questionnaire was used to obtain background information and pregnancy 
histories, including duration of lactation and contraceptive practices, of 1104 
urban and 678 rural married women of reproductive age. The urban sample had a 
higher proportion of contraceptive acceptors than the rural sample (67% compared 
to 45%) and more urban couples resorted to sterilization. A higher proportion of 
urban women had delayed termination of birth intervals for all birth orders 
compared to rural women. Data on fertility rates, contraceptive use and 
demographic characteristics of the samples are presented as well as life tables 
used in the analysis.

PMID: 12311886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Genus. 1981 Jan-Jun;37(1/2):123-35.

The contexts of mortality in Nigeria.

Uche C.

PIP: Discusses the mortality situation in Nigeria since the early 20th century 
and identifies current differentials in mortality. Infant mortality in the 1930s 
was about 300 per 1000 and the crude death rate at 40 to 50 per 1000 in the 
1930s. At the end of the 70s these figures had fallen to 180 and 23 per 1000 
respectively. Expectation of life at birth in the most recent period has been 
estimated at 45 years. Differentials in mortality are found according to 
geographic, residential, sexual and socioeconomic factors. Mortality is 
generally higher in the northern than the southern states, largely due to 
greater socioeconomic development in the south. The usual urban-rural 
differences observed elsewhere are in evidence in Nigeria, regardless of other 
geographical distinctions. Mortality differentials by sex have been found to be 
insignificant in a number of studies which otherwise showed mixed results. 
Households with higher socioeconomic status experience lower mortality. The 
major causes of death, as revealed by hospital records, are largely preventable 
infectious and parasitic diseases. Effects of the high mortality on society are 
noted. (author's modified)

PMID: 12311890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Renkou Yu Jingji. 1981;(1):24-31, 17.

[A statistical analysis of the life expectancy of the residents of our country, 
1973-75].

[Article in Chinese]

Fo ST, Li ZY, Gao ZQ, Dai XD, Cao DX, Li GY, Zhou YX.

PIP: Statistical analysis of life expectancy is important in assessing 
population health and its characteristics and in studying human diseases and 
natural population changes. Life tables are constructed and statistical analysis 
is performed retrospectively on data accumulated over a 3-year (1973-1975) 
period. The data were supplied by the Office of Cancer Prevention and Treatment 
of the Ministry of Health, which originated from 24 provinces, representing an 
accumulated population of 2.04 billion, with a total mortality of 15.29 million. 
Results show that life expectancy in China has greatly improved since 
Liberation. Thus, in 1935, the average life expectancy for Nanjing residents was 
under 35 years. In 1951, the average life expectancy for male and female 
residents of Shanghai were 42.74 and 46.76 years respectively. But for the 
1973-1975 period, the average Chinese life expectancy was 63.62 years for males 
and 66.31 years for females, with higher life expectancy for coastal provinces 
than for inland provinces. Cardiovascular diseases (excluding arteriosclerotic 
heart diseases), malignant tumors, and cerebrovascular diseases were the major 
causes of death in regions with higher life expectancy, while respiratory 
diseases, infectious diseases, and diseases of the newborn were the major causes 
of death in regions with lower life expectancy.

PMID: 12311967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Yojana. 1983 Jan 26;27(1-2):4-7.

Population of India: some dimensions.

Padmanabha P.

PIP: The 1981 India census documents optimistic trends in population dynamics. 
The adjusted decadal growth between 1971 and 1981 was 25.21%, indicating that 
the growth rate has tended to stabilize. A population size of 685,184,692 is 
recorded. 38.69% of the population is under the age of 15; the percentage has 
decreased since 1971, but suggests rapid population growth unless specific 
measures are taken. Attempts to raise the marriage age have been successful; 
over the past 50 years, the age at marriage has increased from 13 years to 17 
years, causing declines in marital fertility. A decline in the age specific 
fertility rate is noticeable in both rural and urban areas and is indicative of 
the benefits of socioeconomic programs and the effect of family welfare 
programs. The death rates have also declined dramatically from a high of 40/1000 
to 14/1000, as a result of investments in health, sanitation, and water. Life 
expectancy at birth has risen to approximately 50 years. The current level of 
infant mortality, 127/1000, is cause for continued concern. 76.69% of the 
population reside in rural areas which experience a 70% higher death rate; 
approximately 47% of the total deaths are in the 0-4 year old age group. High 
infant mortality is a major factor influencing fertility. A skewed distribution 
of basic health facilities between urban and rural areas is reflected in the 
lower proportion of rural births occurring in medical institutions. The 
introduction of public health measures relevant to a reduction in infant and 
child mortality would include: nutrition, water supply, housing, and primary 
health care. Action programs should be relevant to the particular region and 
needs can be identified through census data. Continued socioeconomic development 
has longterm importance for the reduction of fertility. The need to build 
components relating to family planning into programs related to socioeconomic 
improvement is recognized.

PMID: 12311999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Yojana. 1983 Jan 26;27(1-2):8-10.

Approach to population control.

Bose A.

PIP: Due to the fact that India was the 1st nation to adopt population control 
as a state policy and that targets for various family planning methods are set 
by the Department of Family Planning, it is assumed that family planning is 
basically the concern of the Department of Family Planning. Consequently, family 
planning is viewed as a public sector activity that requires little 
participation on the part of the people. This presents a great danger to the 
success of the family planning program. Family planning needs to be the primary 
concern of the people and not the government. The new 20 point program 
emphasizes that family planning should be promoted on a voluntary basis as a 
people's movement. This has been interpreted by many to mean that increasingly 
more funds should be given to voluntary agencies working in the field of family 
planning. Yet, there is deep distrust on the part of the government departments 
regarding doling out funds to voluntary agencies. It is suggested that the 
government should adopt a new approach to the problem of population control 
through the promotion and mobilization of voluntary effort in rural areas. In 
view of the clear demonstration of the impact of female education on fertility 
levels, the Family Planning Department should announce a new scheme to help all 
voluntary agencies which focus attention on the education of girls in neglected 
rural areas and should launch a special schooling program for girls in the area 
of nutrition. In addition, the informal education of women through the 
mobilization of local talent and resources to generate social awareness should 
be undertaken. In India, Kerala has the distinction of having the highest 
literacy rate, the highest life expectancy, the lowest mortality and infant 
mortality rates, and the lowest birthrate. The birthrate in rural Kerala is 
27/1000 in contrast to 40/1000 in rural Uttar Pradesh. A high average marriage 
age has contributed substantially to lowering the birthrate. The key variables 
in explaining the interstate fertility differentials in India are the level of 
education and the marriage age. At least in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, 
Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan, the basic thrust of the family planning program 
for the next 5 years should be on raising the marriage age. In sum, decline in 
the rural birthrate can be accomplished if a 4-fold strategy is adopted: a 
special program for female education in neglected rural areas; an increase in 
the marriage age in rural areas to at least 18-20 years for girls and the strict 
enforcement of the Prevention of Child Marriage Act; massive support of the 
Health Guide Scheme in order to realize the goal of health for all by the year 
2000; and innovative steps to generate and mobilize initiative in the field of 
health and education within local rural communities.

PMID: 12312004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Int Labour Rev. 1982 Jan-Feb;121(1):89-100.

Stabilising the USSR's rural population through development of the social 
infrastructure.

Khomelyansky BN.

This study is concerned with the problems caused by rural-urban migration in the 
USSR and with the policies that have been developed to deal with those problems. 
The author suggests that "the increase in the material prosperity of collective 
farmers since the Revolution, although a necessary condition for discouraging 
rural migration, has not in itself been sufficient to prevent the occurrence of 
rural manpower shortages. He points to the need for an all-round approach to 
improving conditions of life in the countryside, with due regard for 
cultural/utilitarian and socio-psychological factors, and suggests that the 
solution to the problem lies in agro-industrial integration, the improvement of 
public transport and the extension of the all-weather road network."

excerpt

PMID: 12312069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Am Univ Field Staff Rep North Am. 1982;(34):1-14.

Mexican population: 1982.

Sanders TG.

PIP: In 1940, Mexico had less than 30% of its 1980 population of 69,346,900. The 
annual rate of growth by decades accelerated from 1.72% in 1930-40, to 2.72% in 
1940-50, to 3.13% in 1950-60, and to 3.43% in 1960-70. Infant mortality has 
declined from 124.5/1000 in 1940 to 56.8/1000 in 1980, while general mortality 
has declined from 26.6/1000 in 1930 to 7.5/1000 in 1980. Average life 
expectancies of men and women respectively have increased from 40.39 and 42.50 
in 1940 to 62.3 and 66.1 in 1980 and are expected to continue a slow rise. 
Mortality, infant mortality, and average life expectancy figures are least 
favorable in the poorest and least developed areas. Political opposition is 
believed to be 1 main reason for Mexico's late adoption of a population control 
program, but since the family planning program was established it has enjoyed 
solid government support. Mexico's rate of population growth appeared to peak at 
about 3.5% in 1975; it was estimated at 2.7% by the 1980 census and may have 
declined to 2.5% in 1982. By 1979 all age groups of women were having fewer 
children, with those aged 20-34 achieving the most significant drop. Fertility 
differentials by rural and urban residence, size of place and women's education 
are marked. The government's goal is to reduce the rate of population increase 
to 1%/year by the year 2000, with a population of 100,041,400. Because of the 
unfavorable age structure resulting from past rapid growth, that goal will be 
difficult to achieve. The most realistic of 3 National Population Council 
population projections envisions a rate of increase of 2% annually and a 
population of 106,570,400 in 2000. The pattern of city growth from 1970-80 
indicates that Mexico is having some success in decentralizing economic growth 
and urban population concentration, but the largest cities continued to grow 
substantially. About 39.31% of workers are in agriculture, 13.17% are in 
services and transport, 22.47% are in other areas, 8.14% are vendors, and about 
17% are administrative, professional, or technical workers. Mexico's continuing 
high rate of population increase, despite recent declines, is causing serious 
strains on national economy, the public services, and for the people themselves.

PMID: 12312081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Majalah Demografi Indones. 1979 Jun;6(11):46-81.

Population and food problems in Indonesia.

Rusli S.

PIP: This discussion examines the relationship between population growth and 
food problems in Indonesia and their connection with the total food production 
requirement particularly of staples or basic foods in the country. In 1976 
Indonesia's population numbered about 130 million. The uneven distribution of 
population by regions is 1 of the outstanding features of Indonesia's 
demographic situation. The estimates of mortality levels for the period 
1961-1971 mostly refer to life expectancies at birth over 40 years. Using 1971 
census data Nicoli and Mamas estimated that life expectancy at birth in 
Indonesia during 1960-1970 was around 45-46 years. Heligman, considering the 
situation of economics, food, health facilities, and so forth questioned that 
there was a considerable improvement in mortality levels during the 1960s 
compared with that in the 1950s. In the 1960-1970 period the infant mortality 
rate was estimated at about 143/1000 births. The crude birthrate was around 
43-44/1000 for the whole of Indonesia over the 1970-1971 period. Currently, 
Indonesia is implementing a family planning program which the government adopted 
in 1968. The recent estimate of crude birthrate is about 38/1000. Indonesia's 
projected population in 1990-1991 ranges from 180-202 million; its range will be 
from 209-272 million around the year 2000. A wide range of foods is produced in 
Indonesia, but some are more prominent than others. These are the basic foods 
such as rice, corn (maize), cassava. The availability of food production per 
head per year in Indonesia is at this time relatively similar to what it was in 
the pre World War 2 period, although rice production per head per year has 
increased in recent years due to wet land extensification and the involvement of 
Indonesia in the green revolution. Non-rice basic food available per head 
continues to seem far below that in the pre World War 2 period. Population 
increase is in part responsible for the deteriorating non-rice basic food 
available per head per year and the relatively constant level of rice available 
per head per year. In Indonesia the food consumption level has been 
unsatisfactory for decades. Official figures showed average protein consumption 
originating from cattle and poultry in 1969 and 1970 and was only 2.22 and 2.07 
grams per head per day. Rice is the most popular basic food. The better 
availability of food per head has failed to directly improve the average 
consumption level of the mass population. By means of new dimensions of 
development, e.g., the family planning program and the green revolution, the 
country manages to feed its people. In the future, considerable effort will be 
required to improve the average level of food consumption and to solve other 
food problems.

PMID: 12312142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Ghana J Sociol. 1978;12(1):107-34.

Some demographic measures as pointers to socio-economic inequalities in Ghana.

Dugbaza T.

PMID: 12312143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Bangladesh Dev Stud. 1979 Winter;7(1):71-82.

A method of estimating adult mortality trends from widowhood and death 
distribution data.

Mahmud S.

"This paper is an attempt to find a procedure for estimating past trends in the 
rate of decline of adult mortality [using] data collected during a census or a 
single sample survey. It indirectly focuses on trends in adult death rates by 
looking at proportions not-widowed by age-groups and changes in these 
proportions caused by diminishing death rates. An equation has been developed 
which expresses the proportion not-widowed of the ever-married population in an 
age-group as a function of the current level of mortality in the population, a 
first marriage frequency distribution, and the past rate of mortality decline." 
The technique is applied to data from the 1974 Bangladesh Retrospective Survey 
of Fertility and Mortality.

excerpt

PMID: 12312228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Rev Cuhana Adm Salud. 1981 Jul-Sep;7(3):233-53.

[The impact of different causes of death on the mortality levels of the 
population of Cuba].

[Article in Spanish]

Catasus Cervera S.

PIP: Differences in causes of death among the different regions of Cuba are 
analyzed. Mortality is calculated by cause of death and sex for Cuba and its 
regions in 1970 and for the whole country in 1975. The impact on life expectancy 
of the elimination of particular types of causes of death is estimated. (summary 
in ENG, FRE, GER)

PMID: 12312246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Rev Cent Estud Demograficos. 1979;(24):53-99.

[An attempt to determine fertility and mortality levels for the black population 
of Mozambique].

[Article in French]

Carvalho CA.

PIP: A variety of indirect methods is applied to data from the 1970 Mozambique 
census in order to estimate recent trends in fertility and mortality for the 
black population. Summary life tables by sex are also presented. (summary in 
ENG, POR)

PMID: 12312250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1981 Jul;(159):61-5.

[Nuptiality tables: the application of the Wolfbein-Wool method to Japanese 
marriage data].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: A nuptiality table for Japan for 1975 is first presented, and the average 
length of marriage is compared with that for earlier years. The author notes 
that 15-year-olds marrying in 1975 can expect to remain married 15 years longer 
than those 15-year-olds marrying in 1920. While the difference between the 
average length of married life for men and their average life expectancy has 
changed little, the equivalent figure for women has shown a considerable 
increase over the past several decades, reflecting the greater gap in the death 
rate between the sexes and the widened age difference between spouses.

PMID: 12312318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1982 Jan;27(1):9-15.

[Regional types of mortality order in the light of statistical analysis of main 
components].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M.

PIP: This is an analysis of abbreviated life tables for Polish regions for 1973 
to 1975. Life tables are given for 49 voivodships by age groups, and data on 
average life expectancies are provided.

PMID: 12312425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Tiers Monde. 1983 Apr-Jun;24(94):261-76.

[Recent trends in fertility and mortality in Third World countries].

[Article in French]

Leridon H.

PIP: The 1960s marked a turning point in the history of world population growth 
as the annual rate of increase, which reached 2%, ceased its ascent. Fertility 
rates have declined sufficiently rapidly to produce lessened growth rates when 
compared to mortality among 3/4 of the world's population. The maximum growth 
rate of developing countries occurred about 1960-65, with a value of 2.4% 
produced by birthrates of about 40/1000 and mortality rates of about 16/1000. 
The growth rate is now under 2.1%, due to declines of birthrates to 32/1000 and 
mortality rates to 11/1000. The recent demographic development of 40 developing 
countries with populations of over 10 million in 1982 is examined in greater 
detail including 13 African countries, 8 Latin American countries, 4 East Asian 
countries, and 15 South and West Asian countries. In 1975-80, the total 
fertility rate was under 4.7 children/woman, while in 1950 it exceeded 6. A 
regional comparison for these years indicates that fertility in Africa has 
scarcely changed in 25 years, while the lowest rates, under 4 children/woman, 
were found in 3 Latin American and 4 East Asian countries in 1975-80. Reasons 
for the fertility decline in different countries have included higher marriage 
age, increased use of contraception in situations where the effect exceeded that 
of lessened durations of lactation, smaller ideal family sizes, and general 
socioeconomic progress. Among all developing countries, life expectancy at birth 
has increased from 42 to 55 years since 1950, but the differences between 
countries remain great, with almost all African countries, and most South and 
West Asian countries having life expectancies under 50. Infant mortality rates 
declined significantly in most of Latin America, but remain very high in Africa 
and South Asia. Improvements in mortality apparently do not correlate as well 
with economic development per se as with improved maternal and infant health 
care, improved water supply, and improved nutrition. A graphic representation of 
the declines in fertility and mortality in the 40 countries indicates that they 
are closely related.

PMID: 12312440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1982 Nov;9(2):5-8.

A simple linearization procedure for local fit of the Weibull survival 
distribution: a note on an article by Choe.

Luther NY.

The author comments on an article by Choe concerning the use of the Weibull 
survival function to fit curves to infant and childhood mortality data. "As an 
alternative to the computer program [employed by Choe], this note gives a simple 
linearization procedure that is easily executed by hand calculator. This 
procedure allows one to check the fit of the Weibull curve locally...for a range 
of ages (e.g. those from which one wishes to extrapolate). It also provides a 
simple way to find the Weibull curve parameters of optimum local fit." The 
procedure is illustrated using data for the period 1970-1971 for males and 
females in Taiwan.

excerpt

PMID: 12312465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Renkou Yanjiu. 1982 Nov 29;(6):32-7.

[The relationship between the life table method and the formula for calculating 
life expectancy].

[Article in Chinese]

Li G.

PIP: The author states that average life expectancy can be determined either by 
life table methods or by mathematical equations. An attempt is made to prove 
that the life table method is an approximation of first degree to the equation 
method. Some inherent contradictions in the concept of average life expectancy 
are considered.

PMID: 12312489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1983 Jan;(165):48-53.

[Sex differences in mortality in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: An analysis of sex differentials in mortality in Japan is presented. In 
particular, the author explores differences in causes of death by sex between 
1950 and 1980. It is concluded that the increase in the differences in life 
expectancy by sex is primarily due to the improvement in mortality of persons 
over 65 years of age. The significance of structural changes in the causes of 
death over this time period is also considered, as internal causes became more 
important than causes related to microorganisms.

PMID: 12312533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Z Ethnol. 1981;106(1-2):51-91.

[The highest age among peoples of all continents according to material from the 
Human Relations Area Files].

[Article in German]

Weinert T.

PIP: Data from the Human Relations Area Files maintained by Yale University are 
used to examine the highest ages reached among various ethnic groups throughout 
the world. The information is presented geographically by continent, and a map 
showing the estimated distribution of centenarians is included.

PMID: 12312568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Maandstat Bevolking. 1984 Jan;32(1):29-48.

[Marriage dissolution tables by duration of marriage, 1971-1982].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Marriage dissolution tables for the Netherlands for the period 1971 to 1982 
are presented. The results indicate that marriages contracted in 1982 will have 
a greater chance of dissolution than marriages contracted in 1971. Although the 
likelihood of marriage breakup through death decreased over time, the likelihood 
of divorce increased more than enough to compensate for this. The likelihood of 
a marriage lasting 50 years did not change significantly over this period of 
time. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12312780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Maandstat Bevolking. 1984 Jan;32(1):49-56.

[Population forecasts in 1980, an analysis of mortality by cause of death].

[Article in Dutch]

Prins Cjm, Lucas JE.

The methods of projecting future mortality in official forecasts of population 
growth in the Netherlands are described. In particular, it is noted that the 
projected sex, age, and marital status specific death rates were not split up by 
causes of death. An analysis of mortality from 1980 to 1990 is presented, and it 
is shown that "the life expectancies calculated for extrapolated death rates 
split up by group of causes of death hardly differ from those where such a split 
up is not made. According to the figures presented...the differences never 
exceed 0.2 years. From these figures it cannot be concluded that splitting up 
the death rates by groups of causes of death in the national population 
forecasts would lead to significantly different results as far as mortality is 
concerned." (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12312781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Renkou Yanjiu. 1982 Mar 29;(2):37-40.

[The situation concerning marriage and births among childbearing women in 
Shaanxi province].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng Z.

PIP: The results of a 1978 survey of 10 percent of the population of Shaanxi 
province, China, are presented. The survey contained questions on selected 
demographic characteristics of childbearing women. Data are included on marriage 
patterns, divorce, widowhood, fertility, and number of living children. 
Abbreviated life tables for both sexes for the province are also included.

PMID: 12312830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Popul Bull. 1984 Apr;39(2):3-39.

Israel's population: the challenge of pluralism.

Friedlander D, Goldscheider C.

PIP: This Bulletin describes the interplay of demographic and sociopolitical 
processes in Israel since the founding of the state in May 1948 and projects 
what it might be until the year 2015. Heavy Jewish immigration, especially 
during the mass immigration of 1948-51, has balanced the high natural increase 
of Moslems, who comprise the majority of Israeli Arabs, so that the proportion 
of Jews in Israel's population at the end of 1982 (83% of 4.1 million) was 
little changed from June 1948 (81% of 806,000). Even with Jewish immigration now 
low, this proportion is likely to be no lower than 76% in 2015, the Jewish 
proportion could be only 50% in a Greater Israel as Israel annexes the Occupied 
Areas of the West Bank and Gaza Strip where 1.2 million Arabs now live. Oriental 
Jews from less developed North African and Asian countries, 15% of Israel's 
Jewish population in 1984, with their largescale immigration to the mid-1960s 
and initially higher fertility, have managed to outnumber European-American Jews 
by 1970. This was an important factor in the 1977 shift of political dominance 
from the leftwing Labor parties, supported by the better educated, socialist 
leaning European-American Jews, to the rightwing Likud bloc, espousing economic 
policies based on more private initiative and Israel's historic rights to Judea 
and Samaria (West Bank). Western oriented Jews of European or American origin, 
although still the country's establishment, comprised only 40% of Israel's 
population by 1981. By 2015, their share is likely to be down to 30% within 
Israel's present boundaries and would be only 22% of the population of a Greater 
Israel. First raised by 19th century Zionists in Europe who set off the drive 
for the reestablishment of a Jewish national homeland in Palestine, the quesions 
of whether or not Israel will be a Jewish state and remain a Western society 
will continue salient into the 21st century.

PMID: 12312873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Genus. 1982 Jul-Dec;38(3-4):129-44.

Oil-exporting status, quality of life, and fertility: a cross national study.

Hunter SR, Stokes CS, Warland RH.

PIP: It has been suggested that unless the rapid increase in income in the 
oil-exporting countries is accompanied by more equitable distribution of modern 
goods and services, the impact on health, literacy, and fertility is likely to 
be negligible. This study represents an initial attempt to examine the possible 
effects of the oil-exporting status of nations on their income, quality of life, 
and fertility. Data from 150 countries were used, and the Physical Quality of 
Life Index (PQLI) was utilized instead of traditional measures of development. 
Some findings are: 1) the variable showing the strongest direct relationship to 
fertility was physical quality of life (p=-.756) which is consistent with the 
distributional hypothesis; 2) per capita gross national product (GNP) and 
oil-exporting status showed weaker paths to fertility and their signs were in 
opposite directions; 3) per capita GNP showed a moderate negative relationship 
to fertility (p=-.171) while oil-exporting status had a positive path of about 
the same size (p= .155), thus per capita income and oil-exporting status had 
only about 1/5 the net relationship to fertility as did physical quality of 
life; 4) the indirect relationship of income as channeled through PQLI was over 
twice as large as the measured direct relationship, so that the importance of 
per capita GNP for lower fertility is primarily through its influence on the 
physical quality of life within a nation; 5) oil-exporting status was associated 
with lower physical quality of life and the latter was strongly related to 
higher fertility; and 6) in the long run, the relationship between oil-exporting 
status and quality of life should be positive. If separate analyses are 
conducted, the division should be made along an oil-exporter/non-exporter 
dichotomy, rather than a more developed/less developed country categorization. 
It is concluded that nations with relatively high life expectancies high levels 
of literacy, and low levels of infant mortality exhibited lower fertility than 
did nations with poorer records on these dimensions. While higher per capita 
incomes were significantly related to lower fertility, the greater portion of 
the relationship was channeled through the quality of life. Once the effect of 
the oil-exporting nations is controlled, developed and underdeveloped countries 
do not differ widely in the relationships between per capita GNP, physical 
quality of life, and fertility.

PMID: 12312901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Janasamkhya. 1983 Dec;1(2):99-116.

On a modification of life table technique for analysis of birth interval data 
and its application.

Bhattacharya BN, Singh KK.

"This paper presents some modifications [of] the usual life table technique to 
analyse the data on the time of first birth and inter live birth intervals which 
are compiled from the birth histories of females, of varying marital durations, 
enumerated in a retrospective survey." The fact that a female may not be exposed 
to the risk of conception following childbirth or marriage, because of 
postpartum amenorrhea or of customs involving visits to parents, is taken into 
account. A method to obtain maximum likelihood estimates of the conditional risk 
of conception is given, and an analysis of birth intervals is presented using 
this technique and data for India from the Rural Development and Population 
Growth--A Sample Survey 1978.

excerpt

PMID: 12312915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Cah Que Demogr. 1983 Apr;12(1):107-14.

[The mortality situation in Quebec in 1980-1982].

[Article in French]

Duchesne L.

PIP: A review of recent mortality trends in Quebec is presented, with separate 
consideration given to life expectancy, infant mortality, age-specific 
mortality, and causes of death.

PMID: 12312982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Cah Que Demogr. 1983 Apr;12(1):51-82.

[Verification of two methods of indirectly estimating mortality].

[Article in French]

Tremblay M.

"This paper examines two methods of indirectly estimating mortality: the 
Bourgeois-Pichat method (estimation of life expectancy at birth), and the 
Bourbeau and Legare method.... This last method consists of estimating various 
past mortality measures, for a given population, by examining these same 
measures as they were observed in certain other populations, during the period 
in question." These methods are applied to Norwegian data for 1826-1976. The 
results are then compared with data observed during the same period. The 
findings are used to evaluate the two methods and assess their advantages and 
disadvantages. However, the emphasis is on the Bourbeau and Legare method. 
(summary in ENG, SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12312986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Jian Kang Bao. 1981 Jun 28:1 p.

[Further the good tradition of the Party, better serve the health of the 
people--in commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the Party].

[Article in Chinese]

Qian XZ.

PIP: This article is a historical review of the Chinese Communist Party's 
contribution to public health. During the early years of the Red Army, public 
health work was started. A large number of professional cadres was trained and 
established a good tradition. Public health work was expanded extensively during 
the War of Resistance Against Japan and the War of Liberation. More complete 
public health organizations and hospitals were established. Professional workers 
contributed greatly to the revolutionary deeds of the Chinese people. Since the 
establishment of the People's Republic of China, public health has become a 
major portion of the nation's essential task. Contagious diseases and poor 
health have been reduced and put under control. The general health level of the 
public has been improved greatly. The Party has always been deeply concerned 
with the people's health and has constantly taken actions to improve public 
health. The average lifespan has increased and the infant mortality rate has 
declined sharply. About 80% of China's population is in the countryside, and the 
work in public health and family planning should also be concentrated in the 
countryside. At the present time, each county (xian) has its own hospital. Most 
counties have already established their own stations for controlling contagious 
diseases and have health stations for women and children. Since the downfall of 
the "Gang of Four," more progress can be expected in the public health field. 
