Scientific and economic management is needed to further increase the 
effectiveness of the entire public health system.

PMID: 12313008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1984;13(1):20-2.

Measuring the status of women.

[No authors listed]

PIP: A summary measure is useful for comparing the status of women between 
countries, based on the indicators of life expectancy, contraceptive use, 
literacy, secondary school enrollment ratio, and labor force participation. A 
composite indicator of the social status of women, referred to simply as a 
measure of status (MS), may be constructed based on country values on the 
indicators identified. MS consists of the total score on each of 10 indicators 
with a maximum score of 100; thus the maximum score is 1000. The 1st 5 
indicators are absolute measures of women's status which are useful for cross 
national comparisons but not for comparison with men's status. The other 5 
indicators measure women's status relative to that of men in the same country. 
MS consists 20% of mortality indicators, 10% of family planning indicators, 40% 
of education indicators, and 30% of labor force indicators. The countries and 
areas of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) 
region for which data are available for at least 6 of the constituent indicators 
are ranked in a table according to their MS score. The MS score is also divided 
into the absolute indicators score and the relative indicators score. Similarly, 
MS is calculated as 10 times the average score on all available indicators. The 
2 sets of scores are roughly consistent and there would be no significant change 
in ranks were either of the 5 indicator scores used for ranking the countries. 
This finding implies a close correlation between the level of development 
(absolute indicators scores) and the status of women within a country (relative 
indicators scores). The finding of a very high correlation between national 
development and women's status does not imply a direction of cause. Initially, 
both the argument that national development leads to improvements in women's 
status and the argument that improvements in women's status make a significant 
contribution to national development are equally plausible. A measure of 
fertility was not incorported in MS because conceptually it is not clear that 
low (or high) fertility necessarily implies high women's status. Operationally, 
the relationship can be assessed. An extremely high correlation exists between 
women's status and low fertility, so much so that low fertility itselt may be 
garded a good summary measure of the status of women. The pattern of MS scores 
is much the same as was observed for individual indicators in that East Asia has 
the highest score. The South Pacific ranks 2nd among subregions, but its score 
is heavily influenced by Australia and New Zealand. Southeast Asia's scores are 
intermediate and South Asia's are the lowest. The ranking of subregions would be 
the same if done according to the absolute indicators scores or the relative 
indicators scores. MS could be revised to incorporate other indicators according 
to the purpose of the research.

PMID: 12313053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Rev Bras Estat. 1981 Jan-Mar;42(165):17-35.

[Access to the infrastructure of basic health and mortality].

[Article in Portuguese]

Vetter DM, Simoes CC.

PMID: 12313126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Asian Pac Popul Programme News. 1984;13(2):25-30.

Third Asian and Pacific Conference perspectives on family planning, population, 
and development.

United Nations. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific ESCAP. 
Population Division.

PIP: Differences between the Report of the UN World Population Conference and 
the Report of the Third Asian and Pacific Population Conference were discussed 
in reference to 1) the relative importance placed on family planning and 
development in lowering fertility levels, 2) the degree to which family planning 
and development programs should be integrated, and 3) setting family planning 
targets. The UN conference was held in Bucharest, Hungary, in 1974 and the Asian 
and Pacific Conference was held in Colomb, Sri Lanka in 1982. The relative 
importance of family planning and development on fertility was a major issue at 
the Bucharest conference. The World Population Plan for Action (WPPA) formulated 
at the Bucharest conference did not recommend family planning as a strategy for 
reducing fertility; instead, the WPPA recommended that countries interested in 
reducing fertility should give priority to development programs and urged 
developed countries to promote international equity in the use of world 
resources. In contrast, the Asia-Pacific Call for Action on Population and 
Development as formulated at the Colomb conference, strongly recommended both 
development and family planning programs as a means to reduce fertility. It 
urged governments to adopt strong family planning policies, to make family 
planning services available on a regular basis, and to educate and motivate 
their populations toward family planning. In regard to integration strategies, 
the WPPA called for integrating family planning programs and development 
programs wherever possible, and particularly recommended integrated delivery of 
family planning and health services. The Asia-Pacific Call for Action supported 
an integrated approach, but only in those situations where it was proven to be a 
workable approach, i.e., where it improved the efficiency of family planning 
services. Combining family planning and maternal and child health programs is 
known to be an advantageous approach, but the consequences of integrating family 
planning with other health programs and with development programs needs further 
study. The WPPA recommended that governments set targets for life expectancy and 
infant mortality, but it did not mention setting fertility targets or 
establishing an ideal family size. It did urge governments to create the type of 
socioeconomic conditions which would permit couples to have the number of 
children they desired and to space them in the manner they wished. The WPPA 
noted that substantial national effort would be required to reduce the birthrate 
to the UN projected rate of 30/1000 population in developing regions by 1985. 
The Asia-Pacific Call for Action urged countries to set specific targets which 
would make it possible for them to attain replacement level fertility in the 
year 2000. It will be interesting to observe the degree to which the Asian and 
Pacific countries will be able to influence the participants at the upcoming 
International Conference on Population to their way of thinking on these 
critical issues. A copy of the Asia-Pacific Call for Action on Population and 
Development is included in an annex to the article.

PMID: 12313216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Popul Policy Compend. 1984 May:1-7.

Sudan.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: The Sudan currently has a population of 18,618,000, with an annual rate of 
population growth of 3.1% and a rate of natural increase of 2.8%. Population 
size estimates for the year 2000 range from 32,064,000-33,762,000. The Sudan 
does not have an explicit policy to modify population growth, although the 
government is currently in the early stages of formulating a population policy. 
The current population growth rate is considered satisfactory because of the 
lack of population pressure on presently developed land, large areas of 
undeveloped land and unutilized agricultural potential, and low levels of open 
unemployment. However, the government seeks to modify spatial distribution to 
attain a better balance between population and resources. This will be 
accomplished through social infrastructure investments in rural and desert 
areas, regional development, sedentarization of nomads, development of new 
towns, and administrative decentralization. In addition, there is major concern 
with the high influx of undocumented workers and refugees and the significant 
emigration of skilled personnel. Life expectancy at birth stands at 45.1 years 
and the infant mortality rate is 131/1000. Current levels and trends of 
mortality are considered unacceptably high. Major health problems include 
schistosomiasis, malaria, malnutrition, infectious childhood diseases, and 
unsafe water. Primary health care is being prioritized to reduce regional 
differentials in health status and increase accessibility to health services. 
The total fertility rate has remained constant at 6-7 births/woman, but the 
government has been cautious with regard to family planning because of generally 
negative attitudes of Sudanese women toward birth control. Family planning has 
been integrated into maternal and child health services, although close to half 
of all ever-married women have never heard of family planning methods and only 
6% of currently married fecund women are contraceptive users. The chief 
acceptors of family planning in the Sudan appear to be young married women who 
use contraception to space births.

PMID: 12313300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Popul Today. 1984 Dec;12(12):16.

Nigeria. Spotlight.

Lecky M.

PIP: Nigeria, the most populous country in Africa, currently has no official 
population policy; however, recent news releases from the Federal Ministry of 
Information indicate that efforts to deal with rapid population growth may be 
forthcouming. Adequate census materials are lacking. In 1984 population size was 
estimated to be 88 million, and in 1983 the estimated crude birth rate was 
48-51/1000, the estimated crude death rate was 16-18/1000, and the population 
growth rate was approximately 3.0%-3.5%. Other estimates for 1983 placed the 
infant mortality rate at 134 and life expectancy at 49 years. The total 
fertility rate observed in a 1981 World Fertility Study was 5.4, but this rate 
was questioned by investigators, who believe it is too low. World Bank 
projections, based on the assumption that fertility declines will begin soon, 
indicate that the population will reach 618 million before stabilizing toward 
the end of the 21st century. At the present time, only 6% of Nigeria's women of 
reproductive age use contraception, and most of these women contracept only for 
spacing purposes. Nigeria, which obtained independence in 1960, is plagued by 
internal strife between different ethnic groups. The northern region, populated 
by the Hausa is less developed economically than the southern region. The Ibo, 
who play a major role in the nation's commerical and government sectors, 
predominated in the the southeastern region, and the Yoruba are the most 
populous group in the southwestern region. 1/2 of the population if Muslim, 40% 
is Christian, and the remaining proportion practices traditional religions. 
During the 1960s, Nigeria derived 2/3 of it gross national product from 
agriculture, and especially from the export of cocoa, groundnuts, and palm oil. 
During the 1970s the economy changed markedly as the country began to exploit 
its oil reserves. By 1983, agriculture accounted for only 20% of the gross 
national product, and 98% of the country's total exports of US$11.3 billion were 
derived from oil. Oil reserves are expected to be exhausted in 15 years. To 
compensate for this expected loss, an effort was initiated in 1980 to revive the 
country's deteriorating agricultural sector. In addition, the government 
instituted educational programs aimed at increasing the supply of skilled labor 
for industrial development.

PMID: 12313400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Maandstat Bevolking. 1984 Dec;32(12):31-6.

[Life tables by sex for 1983 and 1982-1983].

[Article in Dutch]

Netherlands. Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek.

Life tables by sex for the Netherlands for 1983 and 1982-1983 are presented. 
Differences between the tables as a result of using different ways of 
calculating the mortality quotients are explained. "The quotients in the life 
tables for 1983 are based on the registration of deaths in that year as well as 
the distribution of the population on January 1st and December 31st 1983 by age 
and sex.... Both the number of deaths in 1982 and that in 1983 are used to 
compute the mortality quotients for the life tables 1982/1983." (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12313493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1984 Dec;4(2):99-124.

[A study of the potential gain in Korean life expectancy according to the degree 
of reduction in leading causes of death].

[Article in Korean]

Chi KT, Kim EI.

"This study was conducted to examine potential gains in life expectancies when 
the three leading causes of death were partially or totally eliminated, based on 
the mortality situation during 1978-79 in [the Republic of] Korea. It sought to 
ascertain what potential gains in longevity might be reasonably achieved through 
efforts to reduce mortality due to accidents and adverse effects, diseases of 
[the] circulatory system and malignant neoplasms." In addition, the authors 
attempt to determine the range of potential gains that can be expected during 
the total life span of an individual. (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12313506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. GeoJournal. 1981;5(4):369-84. doi: 10.1007/BF00704692.

The delivery of family planning services in Egypt with particular reference to 
population policy and health care planning.

Hellen JA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00704692
PMID: 12313516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Int Demogr. 1985 Jun;4(6):1-10.

Republic of Venezuela. Country profile.

Hakkert R.

PIP: Venezuela's current economic and demographic situation is described. 
Venezuela is a major oil country, and the oil industry accounts for 90% of the 
country's foreign exchange, 70% of the government's revenues, and 15% of the 
gross domestic product. The economy experienced a sudden and high rate of 
economic growth in the mid-1970s as a result of high oil prices; however, in 
recent years, declining oil prices have had a negative effect on the economy. 
The country is now faced with a serious trade deficit, and the government 
recently imposed restrictions on imports. Imports in recently years had 
increased markedly. The emphasis on the oil industry weakened the agricultural 
sector and, as a result, food imports increased. In addition, the rapid economic 
growth experienced during the 1970s greatly increased the demand for imported 
consumer goods. Venezuela has the 4th highest foreign debt in the world (US$35 
billion). Despite these problems Venezuela has a relatively high per capita 
income (US$4,140) and living standard, compared to other countries in the 
region. Venezuela's total population is 14.6 million, and the population is 
unevenly distributed. 86% of the population lives in cities of 2500 or more. 
37.4% of the population and 70% of the industry is concentrated in the Federal 
District which contains Caracas, and in the surrounding states of Aragua, 
Miranda, and Carabobo. This area constitutes only 2.36% of the country's 
territory. Most of the oil fields are located in the state of Zulia which also 
contains the country's 2nd largest city (Maracaibo). The country's coastal area 
contains most of the agricultural lands, and the prairies just south of the 
coastal mountain ranges are devoted primarily to cattle raising. The remaining 
58.2% of the country's territory is essentially jungle and contains only 6.9% of 
the country's population. The annual population growth rate is 3.11%. Although 
the rate declined in recent years it is higher than in most of the other 
countries in the region. In 1981, 1 million of the countrys, residents were 
foreign born. The oil industry attracted many immigrants, and illegal 
immigration is a serious problem. 41% of the population is under 15 years of 
age, the birth rate is 33-37, the death rate is 5, the infant mortality rate is 
39, and life expectancy is 69 years. Average household size is 5.28. Family life 
is highly unstable. 32% of the couples are in informal unions, and these couples 
account for 52% of all births. 20% of the households are headed by low income 
women. The total fertility rate was 6.7 in 1961 and is currently 4.3. There are 
3.2 million housing units, and 800,000 of these are classified as inadequate. 
65% of the population is mestizo, 20% is European, and the remaining 15% are 
from various other countries or members of indigenous groups. The population is 
predominantly Catholic. The literacy rate is 83%; however, 71% of the males and 
84% of the females in rural areas are illiterate. 31.5% of the population is in 
the labor force, and 27.5% of the labor force is female. 20% of the labor force 
is in the service sector and many of these work in the overgrown government 
bureaucracy. Only 15% of the labor force is engaged in the primary sector. 37% 
of the residents of Caracas and 80% of the country's rural residents live below 
the poverty level.

PMID: 12313690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Biom J. 1984;26(8):931-40. doi: 10.1002/bimj.4710260816.

Mortality of a heterogeneous cohort; description and implications.

Nour E.

"A recent model for heterogeneous mortality by Vaupel et al....is shown to be 
based on incorrect definitions. An alternative formulation is presented. The 
results indicate that current methods for computing the survivorship and life 
expectation functions underestimate the true values. A method is given for 
determining the possible magnitude of this underestimation. The method is 
illustrated by a numerical example using U.S. data."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.4710260816
PMID: 12313798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Notas Poblacion. 1985 Apr;13(37):87-106.

[Estimation of adult mortality in six parishes of the central valley of Costa 
Rica (1888-1910) based on information on orphanhood].

[Article in Spanish]

Jaspers Faijer D, Perez Brignoli H.

"This paper contains an application of the orphanhood method for estimating 
adult mortality, based on information provided during the period 1888-1910 by 
the brides and bridegrooms of six parishes of the Central Valley of Costa 
Rica.... Using the Brass technique for estimating adult mortality from 
orphanhood and interpolating the resulting probabilities of surviving into... 
Coale and Demeny's regional model life tables, the life expectancy at the age of 
25 years is estimated [at] 41 years for women and 40 years for men." Mortality 
differences by region and social-occupational group are considered. (summary in 
ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12313808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Maandstat Bevolking. 1985 Jun;33(6):51-9.

[Marriage dissolution tables by duration of marriage, 1982-1983].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Marriage dissolution tables by duration of marriage are presented for the 
Netherlands in 1982-1983, and comparisons are made with the situation in 1971. 
The results indicate that about 1 in 4 marriages continues to last for over 50 
years, that about 3 in 10 marriages will end in divorce, and that the average 
length of time a marriage will last has declined from 37.2 years in 1971 to 33.3 
years in 1983. The effects of divorce law reforms enacted in 1971 are noted. 
(summary in ENG)

PMID: 12313825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Econ Sociol. 1983;(35):5-42.

[Application of different model life tables to data concerning the situation in 
Portugal from 1930 to 1970].

[Article in Portuguese]

Mendes Mff.

PIP: Model life tables developed by the United Nations, Coale and Demeny, 
Ledermann, and Brass are described and applied to Portuguese data from around 
1930 to 1970. Abridged life tables by sex obtained using these methods are 
included as appendixes.

PMID: 12313841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Int Demogr. 1985 Oct;4(10):1-11.

Buenos Aires.

Hakkert R.

PIP: The population of Buenos Aires, Argentina, is projected to increase from 
its current level of 11 million to 13.2 million by the year 2000. The City of 
Buenos Aires proper accounts for less than 30% of the metropolitan population. 
During the 1970s, for the 1st time in its recorded history, Greater Buenos Aires 
registered a slower growth rate (1.6%/year) than Argentina as a whole 
(1.8%/year). In contrast, the peripheral municipalities increased in relative 
weight from 37% of the metropolitan population to 70% in 1980. 55% of the 
metropolitan population lives in nuclear families, with both parents present; 
36% of these families have no children, 27% have 1 child, and 25% have 2 
children. 1-person households comprise 17% of total households. A low birthrate 
(18.1/1000 in 1979), a life expectancy slightly over 70 years, and some net 
outmigration combine to make the population of the Federal Capital the oldest of 
any large Latin American city. In 1980, its median age was 36.7 years. The death 
rate stood at 12.7/1000 in 1979. The share of the population comprised by 
foreigners has declined over the years, and stood at 13.2% in the City of Buenos 
Aires in 1980 and at 11.5% in the metropolitan area as a whole. Italians and 
Spaniards remain the principal groups of foreign born. Internal migration to the 
metropolitan area continues to be strong; 49% of the 1.5 million people who 
changed their residence between provinces in 1975-80 went to Greater Buenos 
Aires. The literacy rate in the Federal Capital is 99% and 97% in the 
Metropolitan Area as a whole. The 1980 census revealed that 51.5% of the 
population over 14 years of age were economically active. Women comprise 31% of 
the labor force. The median income of workers in the metropolitan area was 
estimated at US$235/month in 1982. The percentage of families whose income is 
considered inadequate to supply their basic needs ranges from 2.1% in the 
Federal Capital to over 5% in poorer districts.

PMID: 12313866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Naselenie. 1985;3(2):3-18.

[The life potential of the population of the People's Republic of Bulgaria in 
1956-1957 and 1974-1976].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Griva K.

PIP: Some theoretical concepts concerning the demography of longevity are 
reviewed, and several alternative methods of calculating life expectancy are 
considered. Changes in life expectancy by sex in Bulgaria from 1956-1957 to 
1974-1976 are then analyzed. The reasons for recent unfavorable trends in male 
life expectancy are discussed. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12313893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Notas Poblacion. 1985 Aug;13(38):65-122.

[Population and development: facts and reflections].

[Article in Spanish]

United Nations. Centro Latinoamericano de Demografia CELADE.

PIP: This paper highlights the role of demographic variables in the development 
process. An awareness of the complex interaction between population indices and 
social and economic indicators has enhanced the need for deomographic policies 
within development planning. Between 1960 and 1985 Latin America and the 
Caribbean experienced a fertility decline; the global fertility rate dropped 
from 6 to 4 children per woman. Mortality also decreased, raising life 
expectancy from 57 to 64.5 years. Infant mortality varies greatly among 
countries, ranging from 20 to 125 deaths/1000 live births. Within countries, 
infant mortality also shows wide differentials by ethnic group and socioeconomic 
level. International migration has emerged as a key demographic variable since 
1970. Most Latin American countries lost population because of migration, 
primarily to the US and other developed countries. Nevertheless, the overall 
population has risen at an annual rate of 2.3%. Changes in the age composition 
show a gradual aging of the population. The proportion of those under 15 dropped 
from 49% to 39% between 1960-65 and 1980-85, while those over 65 increased their 
share from 3% to more than 4%. Urbanization rose from 50% in 1960 to 66% in 
1980; it has, however, slowed down since 1970. Latin America's dependent 
development suggests that the region may not follow the path of the developed 
nations. The concern is no longer what, how and how much is produced, but who 
benefits from the production process. The governments' focus on distribution 
implies that demographic and health indices can improve even when economic 
indicators remain stagnant. Population dynamics thus need to be studied within 
specific political contexts. Projections suggest a continued decline in 
fertility and mortality, and reduced migration. Demographic variables are 
considered exogenous to the planning process. Alternative forecasts are rarely 
tied into different socioeconomic strategies. This gap needs to be remedied by 
incorporating demographic data as an input in both problem definition and policy 
formulation.

PMID: 12313897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Notas Poblacion. 1985 Aug;13(38):9-53.

[Adult mortality and orphanhood in the past: five Latin American cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Somoza J.

"This paper describes the historical evolution of five populations and analyzes 
the circumstances under which data on maternal and paternal orphanhood of 
couples at the moment of marriage were collected and compiled." The data, which 
concern historical populations in Mexico, Chile, Peru, Brazil, and Argentina, 
are used to construct life tables for male and female adults. Consideration is 
given to mortality differentials by sex. (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12313898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Maandstat Bevolking. 1985 Sep;33(9):42-8.

[Life tables by marital status, 1981-1984].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H.

PIP: Marital life tables for the Netherlands for the period 1981-1984 are 
presented. Changes in the number of moves among the four marital statuses never 
married, married, widowed, and divorced are analyzed. The results indicate that 
marriage is becoming less important over time as people spend longer periods in 
the never married or divorced status. Since 1971-1975, the mean duration of 
marriage has declined by about four years, whereas the mean time spent in the 
divorced status has increased to six years for men and eight years for women. 
(summary in ENG)

PMID: 12313918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Popul Res. 1983;1(2):43-51.

Population projections for three counties in Zhejiang Province.

Zhuang B, Huang X.

PIP: Using population numbers and deaths in each age group in Yayao, Jiangshan, 
and Huangyan counties, China, in 1978, the authors analyze current population 
dynamics and project population trends for the next 20-60 years. The total 
population of the 3 counties is 2,314,566, with 33.2% 0-14 years old and 5.7% 
over 65 years old. The dependency ratio is 63.7%. 24.16% of the women are of 
childbearing age, 15-49 years old. The birth rate averages 15.39% and the 
mortality rate is 5.91%. Life expectancy is 68.94 for males and 71.94 for 
females. Males account for 51.6% of the population and females 48.4%, primarily 
due to the preferential treatment given to male babies. 3 constrictions in the 
age pyramid reflect conditions caused by the Japanese invasion of 1941-1945, 
economic policy blunders during the Great Leap Forward and natural disasters, 
and, most recently, the family planning program. The recent 1 child family 
policy aims to limit China's total population to 1.2 billion by the year 2000. 
Achieving this goal requires careful population planning based on actual local 
conditions. 3 forecasts--based on different combinations of 1 and 2 child 
families--estimate total birth rates of 1.46, 1.184, and 1.925. These 
assumptions produce natural increase rates of 5.66%, 7.83%, and 10.64%. All 3 
forecasts produce an aging population, but the dependency ratio decreases. 
China's population policy must be based on the fact that the current population 
is 1 billion, 800 million of whom are peasants, and that China has too little 
arable land and is economically undeveloped. The authors consider forecast 1--in 
which couples have 2 children each from 1981-1985 and half have 1 and half have 
2 child families from 1986-2000--the most desirable because 1) it will be 
acceptable to the peasant population, 2) it maintains a large labor force, 3) it 
produces a stable age pyramid, and 4) it remains a reasonable possibility.

PMID: 12313984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1983 Jun;17(2):44-61.

Mortality in North Sudan.

Khalifa MA.

PIP: As in most developing countries, the vital registration system in Sudan is 
unreliable and other data is scarce. The First Population census of 1956 
reported a crude death rate of 18.5/1000 and an infant mortality rate of 94%; 
the data, however, revealed many inconsistencies. The Second Population Census 
of 1973 as well as the Sudan Fertility Survey of 1979 (SUDFS) provided data on 
the number of children ever born, divided into those who had died, and those 
still living, tabulated by age group of mother. Also included were the 
"orphanhood" questions--questions asked to respondents as to whether his/her 
father and mother is still alive. The purpose of this paper is to use 
information from the 1973 census and 1979 survey to investigate the pattern and 
level of mortality in the north of Sudan. Estimates of child mortality are 
derived from Brass's technique, which uses the proportion of children surviving 
among those ever born to women of known age groups to derive the probabilities 
of dying between birth and age x. This information, along with the information 
on adult mortality obtained from the orphanhood questions is used to construct a 
life table. Results indicate that the mortality experience of the Sudan 
population is very similar to that of Brass's standard. There is, however, a 
slight divergence in the relationship between child and adult mortality. It is 
confirmed that infant and child mortality is greater than what would be implied 
by the mortality of adults. The years from 1973 to 1979 showed a slight 
improvement in mortality conditions. Life expectancy at birth rose 1.5 years in 
the period 1973-1979; almost no change took place before 1973. The results of 
this study are compared to those of Demeny, who used the Coale-Demeny life table 
model to analyze the 1956 census.

PMID: 12314003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Notas Poblacion. 1985 Dec;13(39):105-26.

[An estimation of mortality in the city of Corrientes in the nineteenth 
century].

[Article in Spanish]

Foschiatti AM, Somoza JL.

PIP: This paper is organized in two parts: the first reviews the history and 
economic development of the city of Corrientes, Argentina, and introduces the 
census and registry sources to be examined; the second presents the analysis 
leading to estimations of the mortality rates and life expectancy for this city 
in the nineteenth century. The "age distribution of deaths" procedure, developed 
by William Brass, is used. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12314012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Pak Dev Rev. 1985 Summer;24(2):125-49.

Landholding, rural fertility and internal migration in developing countries: 
econometric evidence from cross-national data.

Bilsborrow RE, Winegarden CR.

PIP: This article examines the relationship between rural fertility and 
rural-urban migration and land holding patterns, using data for 26 developing 
countries. A 2-equation stochastic model is developed with variables for the 
rural total fertility rate, the average annual rate of rural-urban migration, 
the gross domestic product per agricultural worker, the small holder index, the 
concentration index, the land ownership index, agricultural density, the 
literacy rate, and life expectancy at birth. Regression results for the rural 
fertility and migration equations show that the coefficient for lagged migration 
is positive, as expected. The lack of an effect of literacy is surprising, and 
may indicate that urban-rural differentials in literacy rates vary widely across 
countries. The positive coefficient for rural income provides evidence of a 
positive income effect on fertility in rural areas. The 3 land holding variables 
receive strong statistical support. The urbanization variable is very powerful; 
studies that do not take this into account may be seriously biased. The 
smallholding variable is significant and positive, but the diffusion of land 
ownership raises fertility and rural-urban migration rates. The reduced form 
equation highlights both opportunities and obstacles. The statistical results 
provide strong support for the major hypotheses of the effects of land holding 
patterns on rural fertility and rural-urban migration: higher fertility is 
positively related to higher rates of out-migration. Higher out-migration in the 
previous decade means higher subsequent fertility.

PMID: 12314045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Maandstat Bevolking. 1986 Feb;34(2):34-41.

[Marriage dissolution table by duration of marriage, 1984].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: A life table of marriages in the Netherlands in 1984 is presented. It is 
used to examine trends in marriage and divorce since 1971. The data are from 
official sources. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12314082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. R S Rep. 1984 Mar;(47):1-15.

Life tables by ethnic group for Hawaii, 1980.

Gardner RW.

PIP: The Hawaiian life tables presented in this study are constructed by 
utilizing recent mortality and population data provided by the US Census and the 
Hawaii State Department of Health. The problems and solutions encountered when 
dealing with a small state with a smal population are discussed. Along with the 
problem of data irregularities -- such as death fluctuations during short 
periods of time -- the most vexing problems lay in the procedure to close the 
tables. There are a number of ways to close the life tables; several are based 
on the assumption that certain mortality functions follow a specified type of 
curve. The conservative approach chosen involves a regression equation that 
tends to minimize differences among the various ethnic groups. For the combined 
sexes and for all ethnic groups combined, the regression equation gives a life 
expectancy at age 75 of 10.59 years and a life expectancy at birth of 76.92 
years. This approach slightly underestimates life expectancy at birth for the 
total population. Because of this, tables for the numerically small groups are 
less reliable than are the tables for the larger groups and for the total 
population. Results show that: 1) female life expectancy at birth is 81 1/2 
years; 2) male life expectancy is 75 years; and 3) life expectancy by ethnic 
group shows Chinese and Japanese rank the highest, Filipinos next highest, 
Caucasians and others have the next highest, and Hawaiians and part Hawaiians 
have the lowest. It is clear that marked nortality differentials remain between 
ethnic groups and between the sexes in Hawaii.

PMID: 12314092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Statistica. 1985 Oct-Dec;45(4):545-53.

[Life expectancy and median life in life tables: the historical emergence of 
these measures].

[Article in Italian]

Lombardo E.

PIP: The author describes the development of two measures used in life tables, 
life expectancy and median length of life. These measures were developed during 
the course of correspondence between the Dutch brothers Christiaan and Lodewijk 
Huygens in 1669. (summary in ENG, FRE)

PMID: 12314148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Naselenie. 1985;3(3):3-11.

[On the life expectancy of the Bulgarian population].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Totev A.

PIP: The author examines life expectancy among the population of Bulgaria, with 
some discussion of selected other European countries. The difference between 
biological and demographic life expectancy is first described. Theoretical and 
methodological issues involved in estimating life expectancy at birth are then 
discussed. Topics considered include total and infant mortality, expected future 
increases in life expectancy, and sex differentials. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12314214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Jul:1-6.

Togo.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This compendium on Togo contains a summary of current and projected 
demographic indicators, of government population policies and attitudes, and of 
the current status of the country's population data collecting system. The 
information is further summarized in a 1-page fact sheet. In 1981 the total 
population was 2.7 million. In 1980-85, the annual population growth rate was 
2.9%, and the annual natural increase rate was 2.9%, life expectancy at birth 
was 48.7 years, the infant mortality rate was 113, and the crude birth rate was 
45.4. Per capita income was US$406 in 1979, and in 1981, 67% of the labor force 
was engaged in agriculture. Currently the government has no policies in regard 
to population growth and is satisfied with the current fertility level. Earlier 
the government's position was pronatalist; but, in 1976, the government approved 
the establishment of the Togolese Family Welfare Association (ATBEF), an 
affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation. In addition, the 
government is promoting the integration of family planning services in the 
nation's primary health program. The government is concerned with the problem of 
teenage pregnancy. Abortion, except to save the life of the mother, is illegal, 
and there are no legal provisions concerning sterilization. In recent years, the 
government adopted several measures aimed at improving the status of women. 
These measures included the passage of a new family code. The major concerns of 
the government are to improve the health status of the population and to promote 
rural and regional development. The primary health care program was expanded in 
1977, and the country has a fairly successful immunization program. It also 
operates a leprosy control program and is improving the country's water supply. 
Currently the level of international migration, both emigration and immigration, 
is low, and the government has no migration policy. Togo has a low urban rate 
(17.4%), and between 1970-80, the rate of annual urban growth rate was 5.3%. The 
government is concerned about the high rate of growth in Lome, the capital city. 
Togo conducts a census every 10 years, and the last one was conducted in 1981. 
Birth and death registration is incomplete. There is no institutionalized 
mechanism for promoting the integration of population and development planning.

PMID: 12314234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Jul:1-7.

Ivory Coast.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Since the Ivory Coast's independence (1960), the population has increased 
from 3.7 million to 9.7 million, representing a growth rate of up to 4.2%. The 
country's 5th 5-Year Plan (1981-85) has 4 priorities: 1) agricultural 
modernization, 2) traditional industry and crafts modernization, 3) human 
resources enhancement, and 4) continued economic growth. Population objectives 
include 1) increasing peasant aid, 2) making education more development 
oriented, 3) making health care more accessible, and 4) finding solutions to 
employment and unemployment problems. The government wants to increase 
population size because it needs labor for economic development. Programs 1) 
develop areas with high out-migration, 2) reduce maternal and child mortality, 
and 3) support family planning only to benefit family well being. Although the 
Ivory Coast's population will reach 15 million by the year 2000, and population 
density has tripled since 1950, the country is still thinly populated. The 
current population policy strives to 1) reduce infant mortality, 2) maintain 
fertility, and 3) diminish immigration and emigration. Life expectancy is 47 
years, infant mortality is 122/1000, and most rural people have no health 
services. The government considers the total fertility rate of 6.7 satisfactory. 
Abortion for contraceptive purposes and sterilization are illegal; access to 
contraception is limited. The Ivory Coast, because of rapid economic growth, 
attracts immigrants from neighboring countries; at present 1/3 of the population 
is foreign-born. The government is trying to integrate natives more fully into 
the labor force. There is little emigration, but internal migration involves 
almost half of the population. The government attempts to 1) slow down and 
redirect rural to urban migration to small and medium sized towns and 2) slow 
rural to rural migration from the savannah to the forest zone.

PMID: 12314235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Jul:1-7.

Yemen Arab Republic.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: The government of the Yemen Arab Republic does not have a population 
policy, but promotes family planning for health reasons since one of its goals 
is to reduce maternal and child mortality and morbidity. The 2nd 5-Year Plan 
(1982-86) aims for increased gross domestic product and per capita income, 
regional development, infrastructure development, job creation, and human 
resources mobilization. The population increased from 4.8 million in 1970 to 5.8 
million in 1980 and is projected to reach 6.5 million by 1985 (indicating a 2.4% 
growth rate from 1980-1985). Life expectancy is 44 years for both sexes; infant 
mortality now stands at a high 156/1000 due largely to early marriage and little 
maternal care. The government concentrates on improving health care, mainly 
through its national health plans, by emphasizing immunization, education, and 
training doctors abroad. Current total fertility is 6.7, the birth rate is 
48.5/1000, and the average age at marriage for girls is 13. Contraceptives and 
sterilization are available; abortion for contraceptive purposes is illegal. Up 
to 30% of Yemen's labor force may have emigrated to neighboring Gulf states and 
Saudi Arabia. The shortage in labor is partially made up by immigrants from the 
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, but the government still considers 
emigration too high since many of those who leave are the most skilled. There is 
no policy on international migration, due to the great value of remittances, but 
the government would like to encourage return migration. Yemen's urban 
population increased from 1.9% in 1950 to 15.3% in 1980. 4/5 of the population 
live in 5 of Yemen's 10 governorates. The government's policy seeks to 
strengthen the agricultural sector, improve living quality in rural areas, build 
up a balanced regional infrastructure, and establish more educational 
opportunities in small cities and villages.

PMID: 12314236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Jul:1-7.

Kenya.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Kenya's 1st census, in 1948, counted 5.8 million people, the 1979 census 
counted 15.3 million, and the government estimates the 1984 population at 19.4 
million. Development planning began in 1966; the current 5-year plan (1984-1988) 
stresses manpower, capital, and land development, mainly in the West. The 
government considers population growth an obstacle to meeting educational, 
health, housing, food, and employment needs. Kenya's high 4% growth rate results 
from a high birth rate and a declining death rate. The government intends to 
reduce population growth to 3.3% by 1988 by 1) informing Kenyans of the benefits 
of small families and 2) making family planning services easily available, 
especially in rural areas. Life expectancy is currently 52.9 years and infant 
mortality is 82/1000. Most health problems relate to childbearing, communicable 
diseases, malnutrition, and poor sanitation. The current development plan 
strives to expand services in 1) staff training, information, and education, 2) 
monitoring and evaluation, 3) contraceptive delivery, and 4) increasing family 
planning acceptors. Kenyan women desire 7 children and usually have 8. The 
government is trying to improve the status of women through education and 
employment, with the expectation of reducing fertility levels. Abortion for 
contraceptive purposes is illegal; sterilization and contraceptives are 
available. Neither emigration nor immigration are significant in Kenya. 90% of 
the people live on 20% of the land. Urban growth is increasing too rapidly and 
the government's policies to correct the population distribution inequity 
include 1) urban development, mainly in Western Kenya; 2) encouraging 
agricultural development; 3) development of export-oriented, resource based, and 
labor intensive industries; 4) funding development sites outside of Nairobi and 
Mombasa; 5) stimulating growth in undeveloped areas; 6) improving roads, rails, 
and ports; and 7) providing adequate water, housing, and energy.

PMID: 12314237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Jul:1-8.

Uganda.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Uganda's population increased from 4.7 million in 1950 to 15.5 million in 
1985, representing a present growth rate of 3.5%. The government realizes that 
rapid population growth has created underemployment and unemployment, but does 
not view the issue as critical to present development. Death rates have declined 
rapidly but birth rates have remained high, largely due to poverty, early 
marriage by females, illiteracy, and women's low educational status. The 
government has recently developed an official policy to decrease population 
growth and is now working with the Family Planning Association of Uganda to 1) 
lower the population growth rate from 3% to 2.6% and 2) increase the 
population's physical, mental, and social quality. Current life expectancy is 
now 52 years, and infant mortality is 94/1000. Health care has deteriorated in 
recent years as hospitals have closed and medical personnel have left the 
country. Government priorities include maternal and child health care, 
diarrhoeal control, and environmental sanitation. The fertility rate is 
projected to fall from the current 6.9 rate to 6.3 by the year 2000. Government 
fertility reduction plans include 1) merging family planning and maternal and 
child health services, 2) sex education in schools, 3) population education, 4) 
maternity and paternity benefits, and 5) raising the legal marriage age. 
Abortion for contraception purposes is illegal; sterilization is legal. 1) 
Refugee repatriation to Sudan, 2) Indo-Pakistani expulsion (1972), and 3) mass 
flight in the 1970s have affected Uganda's recent development. The government 
encourages skilled Ugandans living abroad to return home. Urban growth has 
increased from 8% in 1979 to 14% in 1985; to slow rural to urban migration, the 
government plans to encourage and educate people to remain on the land, 
encourage the development of specific areas, repair and maintain urban areas, 
and improve land access and resettlement opportunities.

PMID: 12314238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Popul Res. 1985 Jul;2(3):25-33.

Population growth in Shanghai and its characteristics.

Zhang K.

PIP: There has been an astonishing change in Shanghai's natural population 
growth over the past 34 years, with a significant difference between urban and 
suburban areas. In 1954, the birth rate reached as high as 52.6/1000 and the 
death rate dropped as low as 7.1/1000, the natural growth rate being 45.4/1000. 
The substantial decline in the rate of natural increase in Shanghai is due to 
the enormous achievements of family planning programs. In 1983, the 1-child rate 
of Shanghai areas was 96.56%, with that in urban areas reaching 99.36% and that 
in rural areas 92.4%. In the last decade, with the development of industrial 
production, several satellite cities have been built, attracting some of the 
urban residents from the city proper. The 5 characteristics relating to 
Shanghai's population growth are: 1) population density is high and population 
distribution is uneven; 2) fertility declined drastically in the 1970s; 3) the 
proportion of young is declining and the proportion of aged is increasing; 4) 
the mortality has been declining steadily, resulting in a longer life 
expectancy; and 5) the sex ratio has evened out since the liberation when males 
greatly outnumbered females. These factors point out the arduous task for family 
planning in the coming years. The enormous population and the increasing number 
of young people at child bearing ages point out the necessity of carrying on the 
family planning program.

PMID: 12314261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. UFSI Rep. 1985;(32):1-9.

Going back to Java.

Critchfield R.

PIP: In Indonesia, achievements in food production have helped lower the 
country's deaths rates and increase life expectancy, making concern about the 
birthrate all the more critical, particularly in the already crowded Java. 
Indonesia's rice production in 1985 is expected to reach 26.3 million tons, 58% 
more than the 1975-79 average. With every country except Malaysia now 
self-sufficient or surplus in rice, the world market price for rice has dropped 
markedly. Indonesia's National Logistics Board (BULOG), which aims to establish 
a floor price for rice, has had to stockpile 3.5 million tons, double its normal 
reserve and enough for 3 years. Some of it has been kept 2 years already, but it 
cannot be exported as the quality is low and everybody else also has plenty of 
rice. Peasants and agriculture experts agree that alternatives to rice pose 
greater risks in terms of weather and disease. Whatever the government does, 
rice prices have dropped sharply and are likely to stay down. Fertilizer use can 
also be expected to decline for the 1st time in years. Indonesia is the scene of 
a scientific breakthrough, a new hybrid seed corn that grows in the tropics. If 
seed companies are able to sell seed for half of Indonesia's existing corn 
acreage, this would be an increase of 1.3 million tons, which would mostly be a 
surplus to be used for export, processing, or increased human or animal 
consumption. In revisiting Indonesia, the biggest dissapointment is the failure 
of family planning to slow the rate of population growth more drastically. 5 
years ago, Indonesia's family planning program, started in 1970, appeared a 
great success. Countrywide, the proportion of women aged 15-44 using 
contraceptives increased from almost nothing to almost 40% and in Bali topped 
60%. Indonesia's overall annual population growth rate had dropped to 1.7%, 
raising hopes it could be brought down to the 1.2% rate of East Java and Bali by 
1985. What has happended instead is that an unexpectedly fast decline in the 
death rate, especially in infant mortality, and an increase in life expectancy 
have meant a rise in annual overall growth back to the present 1.9-2.2%. Despite 
the present disappointment, Indonesia's government-sponsored family planning 
campaigns have shown how village culture can be harnessed to promote change.

PMID: 12314276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Popul Bull ESCWA. 1985 Dec;(27):73-108.

Forced migration of Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip, 1967-1983.

Kossaifi G.

PIP: The author reviews the socioeconomic characteristics of migrants forced 
from the West Bank and Gaza Strip and presents data on the age and sex 
distribution of these migrants in Jordan and other Arab countries. He also 
includes data on life expectancy at birth and fertility indicators for 
Palestinians for the period 1967-1992.

PMID: 12314281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Popul Bull UN. 1985;(18):10-33.

Re-estimation of structural parameters to obtain estimates of mortality in 
developing countries.

Palloni A, Heligman L.

PIP: The introduction of new models of mortality is intended to provide a 
representation of age/sex patterns of mortality which are closer to those 
underlying the mortality experience of developing countries. With the 
publication of new model life tables for developing countries by the UN, it is 
