now possible to provide more reliable formulations for indirect mortality 
measurements. This paper provides improved regression equations for transforming 
survivorship of kin statistics into measures of infant, early childhood and 
adult mortality. After a short description of the mortality models upon which 
the new methods are based, the 1st section covers the treatment of estimation of 
mortality in infancy and childhood. The 2nd section is devoted to 
transformations of orphanhood data into conditional probabilities of 
surviviorship for adults. Finally the 3rd section provides an illustrative 
application of the new equations to the case of Peru (1960-1978). Emphasized 
throughout the paper is the quite different issue of not just selecting between 
appropriate mortality models but also between appropriate techniques.

PMID: 12314306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Popul Bull UN. 1985;(18):34-40.

Mortality and development revisited.

Preston SH.

PIP: This paper attempts to update results reported in 2 earlier papers about 
the role of socioeconomic factors in worldwide mortality declines since the 
1930s. Preston (1975) demonstrated that the relationship between life expectancy 
at birth and per capita income (in constant dollars) had shifted between the 
1930s and the 1960s. A country at a particular level of national income per 
capita was estimated to have a level of life expectancy at birth that was, on 
average, 9.7 years higher in the 1960s than it would have been in the 1930s at 
the same level of income. That shift clearly was attributable to factors other 
than measured income gains. To identify the contribution of advances in literacy 
and nutrition to the apparent shift, Preston (1980) added those variables to 
income in regression equations estimated with data on 36 countries around 1940 
and 120 countries around 1970. For the less developed countries (LDCs), the 
shift in the relationship between 1940-70 was estimated to be 8.8 years after 
those variables were introduced along with income. Thus, literacy and 
nutritional gains were responsible for relatively little of the shift. The goal 
here is to estimate the amount of shift in the relation between mortality and 
other development indicators during the 1965-69 to 1975-79 period. The focus is 
on the 70% of the developing world (exclude China) where, in the aggregate, 
there are indications of a slowdown in the pace of mortality change during the 
1960s and the early 1970s. In all cases a mortality indicator was used as the 
dependent variable in a cross-national regression analysis that includes data 
from LDCs and from developed countries. Also, in all cases, the set of 
independent variables included some transformation of the following: the 
percentage of adults who were literate, gross domestic product per capita in 
constant dollars, and the excess of per capita daily calories supplied above 
1500. Data were drawn from the standard UN, UNESCO, and World Bank compendia. 
Contrary to previous periods, the social and economic variables of income, 
literacy, and nutrition were the dominating factors in explaining mortality 
decline during the 1965-69 to 1975-79 decade. That greater relative role does 
not result from faster improvements in social and economic conditions during the 
recent period or from an increased responsiveness of mortality to social and 
economic variables, but the exogenous factors appear to have operated with 
sharply reduced intensity in the more recent period. Reduced international 
commitment to health in developing countries may be 1 explanation. The results 
also suggest the major role that can be played by educational change in 
fostering mortality gains.

PMID: 12314307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1986 Feb;31(2):6-10.

[Population reproduction during Poland's millennium].

[Article in Polish]

Smolinski Z.

PIP: An attempt is made to summarize birth and death rates as well as population 
growth, life expectancy, gross reproduction rates, and theoretical birth rates 
for Poland during its 1,000-year history. The author concentrates on estimates 
for the period from the year 1000 to 1900, since the rates and coefficients for 
the twentieth century are much better documented and are well known.

PMID: 12314327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Popul Today. 1986 May;14(5):12.

Burkina Faso: spotlight.

Yinger NV.

PIP: Burkina Faso is the world's 6th poorest country in terms of Gross National 
Product (GNP) per capita and suffers from a poor resource endowment. Obstacles 
to development include a literacy rate of 11.4% for males and 3.6% for females, 
an infant mortality rate of 180/1000 live births, and a life expectancy at birth 
of 33 years in rural areas. The 1975 Census indicated a population of 5.6 
million and a natural rate of increase of 2.6%. Provisional results of the 1985 
Census indicate a population of 7.9 million, which represents a 3.4% annual rate 
of increase since 1975. (This discrepancy is believed to reflect a serious 
undercount in the 1975 Census rather than a dramatic increase in population.) 
Another aspect of Burkina Faso's demographic situation is substantial 
out-migration of working age males to the Ivory Coast and Senegal. The current 
government is revolutionary, with links to the USSR Cuba, and Libya. However, 
the US still contributes aid to the country's development efforts. Since 
independence in 1960, GNP per capita has increased about 2% per year, and 
prospects are good for slow but steady development.

PMID: 12314358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Mater Pr Antropol. 1986;(107):105-88.

[Factors affecting age structure of skeletal populations].

[Article in Polish]

Piasecki E.

Problems concerning the study of the age of a skeletal population are explored. 
Five factors are considered including environmental pressures, the initial age 
structure of the population, migration, epidemics and other natural disasters, 
and fertility. "The analysis has been carried out by means of the simulation 
method, using 3 age structures of living individuals observed several hundred 
years in the light of various disturbances, 6 life tables and several fertility 
rates. Values of expectancy of life calculated by means of the demographic 
method and that used in anthropology are compared." The populations considered 
are from Poland. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12314519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Studia Demogr. 1986;2(4/86):23-48.

[Multiple decrement tables of changes in the marital status of the population of 
Poland (1982-1984)].

[Article in Polish]

Kedelski M, Golata E.

PIP: Official Polish data for the period 1982-1984 are used to construct 
multiple decrement tables of changes in marital status for the population of a 
hypothetical cohort over the course of its life history. The data are analyzed 
separately by sex with respect to the probabilities of change in marital status, 
the characteristics of the life cycle, and the expectation of life by marital 
status category. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12314539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Studia Demogr. 1986;2(4/86):49-69.

[An attempt to estimate the mean life expectancy by city size in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Mazur A.

PIP: An attempt is made to analyze differentials in life expectancy by city size 
in Poland using official data for 1982-1984. Six city sizes are identified and 
analyzed separately using abridged life tables constructed according to the 
method developed by Chiang. The results suggest that life expectancy is better 
in smaller localities, but that factors other than city size are of relevance. 
Consideration is also given to excess male mortality. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12314541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1986 Oct;(180):46-51.

[[A study of the socioeconomic correlates of Japanese life expectancy at 60 
years and over]].

[Article in Japanese]

Sakai H.

PIP: Factors affecting mortality differentials among the population over age 60 
in Japan are analyzed using official data for 1985. Factors considered include 
households with resident elderly people, income, medical care, and ratio of 
social workers to population over age 60. The factors identified as affecting 
regional mortality differentials are the ratio of medical doctors to population 
and the ratio of old-age residential facilities to elderly population.

PMID: 12314557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Initiatives Popul. 1986;8(3):18-22.

From Bucharest to Mexico: a decade of changing perceptions.

Jovero E.

PIP: The 2nd International Conference on Population held in Mexico City in 1984 
had 3 main objectives: 1) to adopt the plan to changing demographic situations, 
2) to enlarge the plan's scope so it can consider new views that have emerged 
since Bucharest, and 3) to reinforce the plan's operational aspects so that the 
plan can be applied more effectively. The Mexico conference had significant 
differences with the Bucharest gathering: 1) greater participation of developing 
countries, 2) clarification of the role of population and family planning in 
development, and 3) recognition of the status of women in development. 
Governments of many developing countries argue that they cannot wait for their 
countries to modernize sufficiently enough to stabilize their population levels. 
Participants in the Mexico conference agreed that family planning programs have 
been successful in reducing fertility at relatively low cost. The goal of a 
development-oriented population policy is to improve the people's standard of 
living by lowering fertility rates, improving health conditions and life 
expectancy, improving population distribution, and adopting sound economic 
policies. The overall objective of population policy should not be confined only 
to growth, distribution, and other demographic aspects; it is imperative that 
human life and human dignity be upheld.

PMID: 12314759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Viitorul Soc. 1986 Nov-Dec;79:547-55.

[Demographic trends in European countries].

[Article in Romanian]

Ghetau V.

PIP: Population trends in Europe are described using data from U.N. sources. The 
focus is on the period 1950-2000. Data are provided on crude birth rates, total 
fertility rates, and life expectancy for 28 European countries. The consequences 
of a continued decline in fertility are reviewed, including demographic aging 
and population decline.

PMID: 12314822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Sven Geogr Arsb. 1985;61:180-202.

[Regional mortality differentials in Tanzania, 1978].

[Article in Swedish]

Rundquist F.

PIP: Regional variations in life expectancy in Tanzania are analyzed using 1978 
census data. Multiple regression analysis is used to identify the critical 
underlying variables affecting mortality and to assess their relative 
importance. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12314866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1987 Apr;(182):36-50.

Hazard function and life table: an introduction to the failure time analysis.

[Article in English, Japanese]

Matsushita K, Inaba H.

Failure time analysis has become popular in demographic studies. It can be 
viewed as a part of regression analysis with limited dependent variables as well 
as a special case of event history analysis and multistate demography. The idea 
of hazard function and failure time analysis, however, has not been properly 
introduced to nor commonly discussed by demographers in Japan. The concept of 
hazard function in comparison with life tables is briefly described, where the 
force of mortality is interchangeable with the hazard rate. The basic idea of 
failure time analysis is summarized for the cases of exponential distribution, 
normal distribution, and proportional hazard models. The multiple decrement life 
table is also introduced as an example of lifetime data analysis with 
cause-specific hazard rates.

PMID: 12314929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Renkou Yanjiu. 1985 Sep 29;(5):42-5.

[[Age-specific mortality and life expectancy]].

[Article in Chinese]

Qiao X.

PIP: The author attempts to assess the degree of influence of infant mortality 
on average life expectancy and to develop a method to directly revise average 
life expectancy given a change in mortality.

PMID: 12314957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Popul Today. 1987 Oct;15(10):12.

Argentina: spotlight.

Patriquin W.

PIP: In 1987 Argentina had a population of 31.5 million, with an annual rate of 
increase of 1.6%. The total fertility rate was 3.3, and the birth rate was 
24/1000 population. Mortality stood at 8/1000 population, and the infant 
mortality rate was 35.3/1000 live births. Life expectancy at birth is 70 years. 
84% of the population lives in Argentina's urban areas. Current government 
policies call for regional development to maintain and increase population in 
rural areas and control growth in urban centers. 90% of the population is of 
European descent, largely as a result of high rates of immigration during the 
1880s-1930s from countries such as Spain and Italy. In 1985 the gross national 
product per capita was US$2130. Argentina is rich in resources and almost 
self-sufficient in terms of basic foodstuffs, power supply, and advanced 
communication networks. On the other hand, political conflicts and economic 
crises have hindered the realization of both human and natural resource 
potential. 80% of the value of export products is the amount due in interest on 
foreign debts.

PMID: 12315099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Rev Fr Sociol. 1988 Apr-Jun;29(2):293-324, 390-2.

[Sex and mortality in France, 1906-1980].

[Article in French]

Chenu A.

PIP: Differential mortality in France is examined by sex, with a focus on the 
excess mortality among men during the period 1906-1980, using data from official 
and other published sources. The effects of occupation, social class, quality of 
medical care, and consumption of alchohol and tobacco are considered. The author 
finds that since 1976, life expectancy has been eight years higher for women 
than for men. While men employed in executive and white collar positions tend to 
live longer than their working-class counterparts, the situation is reversed for 
women, with executive women showing a higher mortality rate than other female 
employees and workers.

PMID: 12315114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1988 Jan;(185):69-78.

[[Life tables by marital status: 1985]].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Life tables by marital status and sex are presented for Japan for 1985. The 
marital statuses considered are single, married, widowed, and divorced.

PMID: 12315125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Demografie. 1988;30(1):3-9.

[Czechoslovakia, 1918-1988].

[Article in Czech]

Kucera M.

PIP: Population trends in Czechoslovakia since 1918 are reviewed, with a focus 
on the development of population policy following World War II. The author notes 
that following a period of change, reproduction has recently dropped to a level 
below that required to sustain the two-child family, and life expectancy 
stabilized at about 71 during the 1960s. The activities of the Czechoslovak 
demographic society are also described. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12315127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1987 Dec;7(2):171-85.

[[Demographic aspects of aging in Korea]].

[Article in Korean]

Kong S, Kim C.

PIP: Demographic aging in the Republic of Korea is discussed, and social welfare 
needs of the aged are identified. Particular concerns related to longer female 
life expectancy are noted. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12315149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1987 Dec;7(2):39-55.

[[Recent life expectancy of Koreans in Japan, 1980 and 1985]].

[Article in Korean]

Kim Y.

Two abridged life tables for Koreans living in Japan for 1980 and 1985 are 
constructed using vital statistics and census data. Among the findings are that 
"the expectations of life at birth of Korean males in Japan are 68.4 in 1980 and 
70.3 in 1985, whereas those values of Korean females in Japan are 78.3 in 1980 
and 78.7 in 1985, respectively. Recent life expectancies of Koreans in Japan 
have come to resemble those of Japanese more than those of Koreans in Korea." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12315153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Popul Today. 1987 Jul-Aug;15(7-8):12.

Botswana: spotlight.

Davis C.

PIP: Botswana's 1987 population was estimated at 1.2 million, with a 3.4% rate 
of natural increase. There were 48 births/1000 population and 14 deaths/1000 
population (70 infant deaths/1000 live births). Life expectancy at birth stands 
at 58 years. The majority of the population lives along the more fertile eastern 
border of the country. The population is dominated by 8 Bantu tribal groups, 
each represented in the government's House of Chiefs. Although Botswana's 
population remains small relative to its land area of 231,804 square miles, 
rapid population growth is creating development and environmental problems. The 
population is projected to exceed 1.8 million by the year 2000, having almost 
doubled in 20 years. The capital city of Gaborone, with a population of 95,000, 
is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa and faces problems with housing, 
water, sanitation, health, and educational services. Agriculture employs about 
60% of the labor force, but crop production has not been able to meet local 
demand, in large part because of drought. The gross national product per capita 
was US$840 in 1985. Excess labor has traditionally been exported to South 
Africa, providing remittance income; however, this employment alternative has 
declined since the mid-1970s, increasing the need for domestic employment. 
According to the 1984 Family Health Survey, only 19% of women of reproductive 
age in union use a modern contraceptive method. The government appears to be 
moving toward better coordination of population growth and economic development.

PMID: 12315197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Popul Res. 1987 Jan;4(1):34-40.

Working life and working life table.

Shen Q.

PIP: To obtain the crude working life of the male employed population of China 
using the 10% sampling data of the 3rd population census, 1) multiply the 
employment rate of each age group by the age interval of the group and 2) total 
the mean working years of each group. According to 1982's age-specific 
employment rates, the crude working life of China's male employed population is 
47.13 years, on the supposition that no death occurs. Crude working life is not 
influenced by the actual age structure and thus can be used for comparisons 
among different regions and different years. Net working life is the mean 
working years calculated to include deaths. To calculate net working life, it is 
necessary to create a working life table. The working life table reflects the 
whole process of labor force participation and withdrawal from the labor force 
with the increase in age of people of a birth cohort under a certain death rate 
and employment rate. The working life table estimates the mean expected working 
years of all people, and that of employed people, who survive to age X by 
calculating from 100,000 births the number of employed people who survive to age 
X, the number of person-years lived in each age group, and the cumulative future 
person-years lived of employed people. A separate working life table is 
necessary for women, since female labor force participation is usually different 
from male. The main uses of the working life table are 1) to calculate the mean 
expected working years, 2) to calculate the mean age and median age at entry 
into and withdrawal from employment, 3) to calculate the replacement rate and 
replacement ratio of labor force to reflect changes in the labor force, and 4) 
to provide grounds for other calculations such as the expected output value, 
consumption value, and net output value for different ages.

PMID: 12315240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Popul Bull. 1987 Dec;42(4):1-43.

Understanding population projections.

Haub C.

PIP: This is a general introduction to how population projections are made and 
used for the consumers of this information. Population projections are 
computations of what future trends in fertility, mortality and migration of a 
population might be given set assumptions. They are not actual forecasts. 
Projections are used by planners in government and business for a clearer 
understanding of social changes. How to prepare projections, obtain base data, 
select starting and future levels of rates, variant series, and the mathematics 
involved are discussed. Assumptions must be carefully checked and chosen, since 
reliability of the projections depends on assumptions. There are 3 rules of 
thumb for reliability: 1) the shorter the projection period, the more reliable 
the projection; 2) the larger the geographic area being projected the more 
reliable the projection; 3) the lower the current fertility and the higher the 
current life expectancy, the lower the projection's margin of error. Major 
sources of data and projections on world, regional, national, subnational, and 
local areas and difficulties with data for developing countries are discussed. 
Available microcomputer programs for IBM PC compatible machines are listed and 
described briefly.

PMID: 12315299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Bol Asoc Chil Prot Fam. 1986 Jul-Dec;22(7-12):15-20.

[Adolescent pregnancy, a public health problem].

[Article in Spanish]

Viel Vicuna B.

PIP: Throughout Western civilization the fundamental unit of society is the 
family. The union of a couple guarantees their responsibility to future 
children. Prior to the renaissance, when life expectancy was very low, the 
preservation of the human species required reproduction at a young age. Since 
the beginning of the 19th century, life expectancy has increased greatly. The 
extremes of reproductive age have been noted to be times when pregnancy carries 
increase risks, and the risks of grand multiparity have been noted. The sexual 
revolution has resulted in the loss of previous principles of conduct. Youth are 
incited by pornography in the media, and without the controlling influence of 
the traditional family, become sexually active at a younger age. In Chile, as 
elsewhere, there have always been out of wedlock births, but in 1970 these 
reached 18.5% of all births. By 1980, it had reached 27.6% of all births and 
45.7% of births to mothers under age 20. Since the family is the basic unit of 
society, this number of illegitimate births indicates a grave social problem. 
This also represents a public health risk due to the increased risks of young 
mothers. Illegitimate children of adolescent mothers have the added problem that 
the fathers are usually also young, so both parents are still in school and 
cannot assume full responsibility for the child. These babies have a much higher 
infant mortality than those of older mothers. The only solution is education, 
and legislation requiring paternal responsibility. School teachers often have an 
inadequate knowledge of reproduction and sexuality, and can not serve as sources 
of information to the students. Without supportive education and legislation 
requiring both parents to be responsible for their children, we will not be able 
to solve this situation.

PMID: 12315312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1988 May;(11):43-57.

[[Mortality estimation using proportional mortality indicators for developing 
countries]].

[Article in Japanese]

Katsuno M.

The author extends a technique for the indirect estimation of mortality 
originally developed by Courbage and Fargues. The technique is applied to 
national data from 35 developing countries for the year 1975. "Nine families of 
model life tables constructed by Coale and Demeny and the United Nations were 
applied to each of the object populations, and the level of mortality 
corresponding to the value of PMI (proportional mortality indicator: percentage 
of deaths at the ages 50 years and over) obtained from death registration data, 
was determined for each family." The author notes that the technique does not 
require assumptions regarding features of the population in question and is 
applicable to a non-stable population or an open population without any 
adjustment. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12315342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Popul Today. 1988 Apr;16(4):6-8.

Consequences of ultra-low fertility.

Day LH.

PIP: It is assumed in this discussion devoted to the consequences of ultra-low 
fertility that "complete" control over fertility means control over both the 
number of children and, within physiological limits, the timing of childbirth. 
As such extensive control already is widespread in most European populations, 
what can be said about its future consequences can in large part be said about 
conditions occurring already. Thus, focus is on differences essentially of 
degree rather than of kind. Improved individual health among those children born 
is one likely consequence. This would be the result of a lower incidence of 
childbirth at the youngest and oldest extremes of the mother's fecund period, 
the proper spacing of births, and the fact that those born would be "wanted" 
children. Control over fertility also offers women greater independence and 
status by giving them increased opportunity to acquire education and training, 
obtain employment outside the home, advance in a career, and earn incomes of 
their own. Yet, the opportunities for greater independence and higher status 
offered middle-aged women in their 50s or 60s by having had complete control 
over childbearing may not realized because of demands on them resulting from 
demographic trends (greater longevity) and social trends (dissolution of 
marriages). Control over fertility is conducive to an older age structure; 
proportions will be smaller in the younger ages, larger in the older. The extent 
of this will be determined by how far fertility declines. The relation between 
age and need is not necessarily direct. Much depends on habits of life prior to 
old age and on contemporary conditions. Aging is as much a social and 
psychological process as a biological one. Some savings can be effected in 
public programs for the aged by introducing elements of means-testing, and 
savings will result from a reduced proportion of the population in the younger, 
dependent ages. Programs such as forced savings that enable the aged to support 
themselves largely, possibly totally, through earnings garnered during their 
peak working years will need to be developed and extended. If one employs a 
different demographic definition of aged, e.g., those in the age categories 
having less than 10 years' life expectancy at present rates, the increase in the 
proportion "aged" during this period is reduced considerably. In sum, a decline 
in number actually can provide considerable opportunities, particularly with 
respect to improving the quality of life and making human numbers, lifestyles, 
and consumption patterns more compatible with ecological and physical reality.

PMID: 12315401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Manushi. 1988;(44):2-9.

The status of women in Pakistan. [Extracts from the Report of the Pakistan 
Commission on the Status of Women, December 1984].

Pakistan. Commission on the Status of Women.

PIP: Extracts from the Report of the Pakistan Commission on the Status of Women, 
December 1984, are quoted under the headings of demographic, health, educational 
and economic status, followed by recommendations on health, education and 
employment. Pakistan's current Five Year Plan includes women in national 
development, yet in reality, women are only valued as mothers of sons or family 
servants. Demographically, females in Pakistan constitute 47.5% of the 
population, reflecting general neglect of girls and women. Women have a 54-year 
life expectancy, compared to 55 for men. Women are subject to poorer nutrition, 
hard physical labor, greater disability and maternal mortality of 6-8/1000. 
School enrollment is relatively lower for girls than boys than in India, 
apparently because people prefer gender-segregated primary schools, and few 
women are trained as teachers. Official labor statistics do not reflect the high 
participation rates of women in family, farm, and informal sector work. None of 
these workplaces afford good pay, working conditions, upward mobility or 
respect. Consequently women work harder and longer than men: 16 hours daily in 
rural areas, and as laborers and helpers rather than skilled workers in cities. 
Some of the recommendations are nutrition supplements, sanitation, clean nearby 
drinking water, appropriate technology, maternal-child health care, literacy 
programs, primary classes for girls, quotas for females in professional 
training, and a list of suggestions to improve women's self respect, safety in 
public, and equal employment opportunity.

PMID: 12315430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Annu Rev Sociol. 1988;14:341-61. doi: 10.1146/annurev.so.14.080188.002013.

Practical uses of multistate population models.

Schoen R.

"The article provides a nontechnical description of multistate population 
models, useful analytical tools that can reflect changes over time in the 
characteristics of a closed group of persons. The multistate life table 
literature is reviewed, emphasizing applications of the models to studies of 
marital status, family and household status, interregional migration, and labor 
force participation and concluding with a discussion of the relationship between 
multistate and event history models."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.so.14.080188.002013
PMID: 12315442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. New Int. 1988 Jun;(184):32.

Swaziland: country profile.

Carrington L.

PIP: Although Swaziland had been independent from colonialism for 20 years, a 
powerful monarch, King Mswati II, continues to control the country's political, 
religious, and social system. Swaziland has a population of 676,000, half of 
whom are under 15 years of age. The infant mortality rate is 105/1000 live 
births and 25% of children die before they reach their 5th birthday. Life 
expectancy is 54 years. Tribal chiefs, representing the king, hold and 
distribute about half of the national land. Most of the fertile land remains in 
the hands of white settler farmers. The concentration of income in foreign 
companies and urban centers has exacerbated poverty in rural areas. Depreciation 
of rand-linked local currency has boosted export earnings, but it has also 
raised the price of food and medical imports. Swaziland's main exports are 
sugar, wood pulp, chemicals, and fruit, most of which go to the UK and South 
Africa. The major food crops are maize, beans, groundnuts, and sorghum. About 
half of the working population is engaged in small-scale subsistence farming, 
but food yields are declining. The major producers are foreign companies 
attracted by Swaziland's low taxes and cheap labor supply.

PMID: 12315468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. New Int. 1988 Oct;(188):32.

Burundi: country profile.

Hilsum L.

PIP: One of Africa's most rural and densely populated countries, Burundi is a 
landlocked nation in Central Africa. The 4.9 million people are 85% Hutus, 
agricultural people of Bantu origin. However, the Hutus are excluded from power 
by the minority Tutsis, and the 2 groups have engaged in violent conflict. After 
a military coup in 1987, a new president, Major Pierre Buyoya, was installed, 
but restrictions on the Hutus continue. The major difference in Burundi has been 
a relaxation of restrictions on the Catholic church, which were severe under the 
former President Bagaza. Most Hutus are Catholic, with a minority of Muslims. 
For the peasant farmer, faced with diminishing arable land and reliance on 1 
export crop (coffee), life is becoming more difficult. An expansion of sugar 
production was planned to reduce reliance on coffee, although the government has 
a rather ambivalent approach to development. While promoting private sector 
development with the help of the World Bank and the U.S. government, the Burundi 
government maintains a rigid 1-party system with strict control over the lives 
of the people. Infant mortality stands at 196/1,000 live births and life 
expectancy is low--43 years for women and 40 years for men. The literacy rate is 
low (39% for men, 15% for women), and the GNP per capita is low ($230). Most 
land is used for subsistence crops such as cassava, bananas, sweet potatoes, 
maize, pulses, and sorghum.

PMID: 12315487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Popul Bull UN. 1987;(23-24):56-75.

Measuring the health status of a population: current state of the art.

Hansluwka HE.

The Global Strategy for Health for All by the Year 2000 by the World Health 
Organization has revived interest in looking for objective measures of the 
health status of a given population. According to the WHO definition, health is 
a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, and not merely the 
absence of disease or infirmity. This paper attempts to survey existing and 
proposed health indicators, including mortality and survival, growth and 
development, and morbidity and disability; and discusses problems associated 
with them. It concludes that mortality statistics are likely to retain their 
central place in the evaluation of health progress. With respect to health 
indicators, problems arise, among other things, from the awareness that health 
is the continuum between death and and complete health and also that health 
tends to become more and a matter of social perception and behavioral patterns. 
Caution and patience are advised in the search for internationally comparable 
health indicators that are feasible, objective and useful.

PMID: 12315522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Popul Bull UN. 1988;25:65-107.

Sex differentials in life expectancy and mortality in developed countries: an 
analysis by age groups and causes of death from recent and historical data.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

PIP: In the early 1980s, a newborn girl in the developed countries could expect 
to live many years longer than a boy. The number of additional years of female 
life expectancy ranged from 5 to 9 years in most of the countries. These large 
sex differentials in life expectancy reflect the fact that males in developed 
countries today have higher mortality than females in every age group and for 
most causes of death. In contrast, early in the 20th century, higher female than 
male death rates in many age groups were not uncommon, and sex differentials in 
life expectancy were narrower by several years in most developed countries. This 
paper presents estimates for the early 1980s of the size of sex differentials in 
life expectancy in developed countries (which was 6.7 to 6.8 years), and the 
contributions of age groups and causes of death to those differentials. Diseases 
of the circulatory system were found to account for nearly 40% of the mean sex 
differential in life expectancy; neoplasms for 18%; accidents, suicide and 
violence for 19%, and diseases of the respiratory system for nearly 10%. The 2nd 
half of the paper examines trends in sex differentials in life expectancy since 
the late 19th or early 20th centuries, in the context of the transition from 
high to low mortality. The contributions of age groups and causes of death to 
changes in the sex differentials between 1900 and the 1980s are estimated for 
selected countries. The database for the study consists of a set of life tables 
covering the period from the 19th century to the early 1980s. Around the turn of 
the century, sex differentials in life expectancy were generally narrower by 
several years than they are today. Large declines have occurred in death rates 
from infectious and parasitic diseases in the 20th century. Because male 
mortality from this group of causes was higher than female mortality, their 
decline in importance has had a narrowing effect on the sex differential in life 
expectancy. Declines in female mortality associated with pregnancy and 
childbirth have contributed to a widening of the sex differential by several 
tenths of a year. Mortality from neoplasms has increased much more rapidly for 
males than for females. Mortality from rheumatic fever, for which female 
mortality was = or than that of males, has decreased. Mortality from 
cerebro-vascular disease, which affected the sexes nearly equally, has also 
decreased in importance. Mortality from coronary artery disease, which is more 
common among males, has increased in importance. Perhaps the factor contributing 
the most to the widening of the sex differential has been male cigarette smoking 
leading to elevated mortality from lung cancer and heart disease.

PMID: 12315555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Popul Today. 1988 Dec;16(12):12.

Spotlight: Togo.

May JF.

PIP: The Republic of Togo is a land of 21,622 square miles on the west coast of 
Africa, 8 degrees north of the equator. The country is divided between the Kabye 
people in the north (22%) and the Ewe people in the south (35%). The president, 
General Gnassingbe Eyadema, is a Kabye. The population of 3.3 million (1988) is 
growing at the rate of 3.3%/year, despite an infant mortality of 107 deaths/1000 
live births and a life expectancy of only 54 years. The total fertility rate is 
6.5 children/woman. The birth rate is 47 births/1000 population, and the death 
rate is 14/1000. Population growth, especially in the cities of Lome and Kara, 
where 1/4 of the population lives, is considered a major threat to development. 
A Demographic and Health Survey has been taken, and a Conference on Population 
and Development was held in Lome in 1987 to draft a national population policy 
statement. Family planning services need to be implemented to raise the 
contraceptive prevalence rate above its present 2%, and the population needs to 
be redistributed, but this requires investment of funds currently being used to 
service the foreign debt. The country's gross national product is only $300 per 
capita.

PMID: 12315601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Naselenie. 1989;6(2):24-30.

[The needs of old and elderly people for medical aid].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Tsenov A.

PIP: The dynamics of increased life expectancy in Bulgaria from the 1930s to 
1975 are reviewed separately for the rural and urban population. The increase in 
the size of the population over age 60 is noted, and implications for the 
provision of health services are assessed. The importance of planning and of 
projecting changes in the population is stressed. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12315688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. New Int. 1988 Aug;(186):32.

Djibouti: country profile.

Fozzard A.

PIP: The nation of Djibouti lies on the east coast of Africa at the point where 
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden meet. It has been independent since 1977, yet 
French influence and presence continue. For example, 2000 French troops are in 
Djibouti to guard its independence from its combative neighbors Somalia and 
Ethiopia. France also supports the government's constant budget deficit and 
unstable economy. The nation's 2 main sources of national income include the 
port and its associated services and the money spent by the unwelcome French 
garrison. Many of the troops and visitors from the Gulf frequent the many 
brothels and the Muslim Djiboutians find this sexual activity offensive. Since 
agriculture is almost nonexistent due to semiarid conditions and the well-paid 
expatriate community can afford to pay high prices for food, many of the 400,000 
Djiboutians live at subsistence level or below. Additionally, the authors claim 
that perhaps 40% of the population is unemployed. The population consists of 2 
main groups, the Afars and the Issas, who feud in the political arena. The Afars 
dominate the Cabinet, yet President Gouled is an Issas and patronizes Issas 
rival clans to maintain their support. Not surprisingly, the demands of the Afar 
community are not the President's top priorities. Consequently' violent protests 
arise and the President resorts to force.

PMID: 12315735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Consum Mark Abroad. 1988 Sep;7(9):2-8.

The United Mexican States: an update.

Hakkert R, Aguirre EJ.

PIP: Although the popular North American opinion of Mexico is one that paints a 
picture of a poor, disadvantaged country, South America sees Mexico has a richer 
more prosperous nation. It is observed that only in the Latin American countries 
of Venezuela, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago do consumers have higher incomes 
than Mexican consumers. Moreover, while millions of Mexicans migrate to the 
United States to seek a better standard of living, several thousand Central 
American refugees illegally migrate to Mexico in search of a better life. This 
better life includes an increased age of lie expectancy from 51 years in the 
1950s to 64 years in the late 1970s. There have also been improvements in health 
care and school enrollments and in the low cost availability of education. 
Tourism and the prospect of the manufacturing of energy are significant, 
positive factors working in favor of an improved Mexican economy and a higher 
overall quality of life. However, Mexico faces serious problems such as a 
mounting foreign debt. Also rising is Mexico's population which has doubled 
since 1964 and which continues to grow at a rate of 1.9%. Economic programs and 
reforms and family development planning have been instituted in response to the 
countries' current recession and population growth and have begun to show 
positive results.

PMID: 12315795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Profamilia. 1989 Jun;5(14):11-21.

[Demographic knowledge and family planning in Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Ojeda G, Ordonez M.

PIP: One of the criticisms made of family planning programs, especially when 
they are as successful as that of PROFAMILA, is the lowering of fertility rates 
to the alarming degree as that experienced by many European countries. This 
demographic phenomenon, characteristic of developed countries has acquired a 
negative effect because of the rapidly aging population without a replacement 
young population. This "European" problem can be analyzed from 2 perspectives: 
1) the low rates of the region's total population; and 2) the European 
population can be connected to that of the world population. Based on data from 
Dr. Day's article in Family Planning Perspectives (May/June 1988) the amount of 
time required to replace Europe's population of 1940 is substantial. For 
example, it would take 45 years for Austria and 135 for France to replace their 
populations. Instead, the issue of concern could be Europe's loss of power in 
the world in lieu of the rapidly growing populations of the Third World. The 
author discounts such a notion by referring to historical events and by 
projecting that by the year 2025 Europe will represent 18% of the world 
population. Ultimately it is the quality of the people that is important, not 
the quantity. According to Day it is more important to know the amount of time 
left than knowing how long one has been alive. Life expectancy is based on the 
health standards of a country, and the genetic quality of the population in 
question. The issue of longevity includes people whose life expectancy at the 
time of the census was 10 years or less; the majority of those over 65 in 
Europe, represent 10-15% of this category. 1 out of 7 Europeans over 65 are in 
excellent physical condition, while those over 65 in the Third World represent a 
small minority. The article discusses several alternatives in raising fertility 
rates in Europe but concludes that the most rational approach is keeping 15% of 
the population over 65 gainfully employed.

PMID: 12315835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Renkou Yanjiu. 1987 Sep 29;(5):8-10.

[[A biological analysis of sex differences in mortality and in life 
expectancy]].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang G.

PIP: Biological determinants of differential mortality by sex are examined. The 
author suggests that a difference in male sex chromosomes is the main reason for 
the higher mortality rate and lower life expectancy observed in males and for 
their susceptibility to some genetic diseases. The production of more male 
fertilized ova is considered as a natural control to balance the sex ratio.

PMID: 12315871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. New Int. 1988 May;(183):32.

Lebanon: country profile.

Marfleet P.

PIP: A brief profile of Lebanon's economy, people, health, culture and political 
situation is presented. Lebanon has an estimated 3.5 million people, with a 
Maronite Christian elite, a Muslim Shiite majority, and Muslim Sunnis and Druze 
groups. The infant mortality is estimated at 41/1000; literacy is 69% among 
women and 86% among men; life expectancy was 66 years, 10 years ago. The 
economy, previously thriving on banking, manufacturing and agriculture, is now 
decimated, and Lebanon's once active tourist industry, based on elegant 
facilities in Beirut and neighboring beaches and ski slopes, is the victim of 15 
years of civil strife. Israel has invaded, supporting Maronite Christians, Syria 
has invaded in support Muslim and Druze militias, and Iran has aggressively 
supported Shiite factions.

PMID: 12315907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Math Popul Stud. 1989;2(1):1-14. doi: 10.1080/08898488909525289.

On the derivation of a full life table from mortality data recorded in five-year 
age groups.

Pollard JH.

Mortality data are often gathered using 5-year age groups rather than individual 
years of life. Furthermore, it is common practice to use a large open-ended 
interval (such as 85 and over) for mortality data at the older ages. These 
limitations of the data pose problems for the actuary or demographer who wishes 
to compile a full and accurate life table using individual years of life. The 
author devises formulae which handle these problems. He also devises methods for 
handling mortality during the 1st year of life and for dealing with other 
technical problems which arise in the compilation of the full life table from 
grouped data.

DOI: 10.1080/08898488909525289
PMID: 12315963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Popul Econ. 1988;1(3):225-33. doi: 10.1007/BF00161480.

Diet, mortality and life expectancy: a cross national analysis.

Rao V.

"There are numerous reasons why mortality and life expectancy vary between 
countries. Epidemiological studies seem to indicate that dietary variations may 
be among them. A sample of 51 countries studied with data from the International 
Comparisons Project and other sources, shows that after controlling for nutrient 
intake, consumption of medical goods and services, income distribution, weather, 
and literacy, countries with more meat and poultry in their diet have lower life 
expectancies after age five. The results for infant mortality and child death 
between one and five indicate that a more animal-intensive diet may be actually 
beneficial, especially if fish consumption is increased and meat and poultry 
consumption reduced."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF00161480
PMID: 12315990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Maandstat Bevolking. 1989 Dec;37(12):16-35.

[The eighties: change or continuity in demographic trends?].

[Article in Dutch]

De Beer J.

PIP: The author discusses demographic trends in the Netherlands, including age 
structure, marriage patterns, life expectancy of both sexes, migration patterns, 
and geographic distribution. It is noted that population growth during the 1980s 
was at its lowest point since World War II, and yet there was a slight rise in 
fertility. (SUMMARY IN ENG)
