
PMID: 12315993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Asia Pac Popul J. 1989 Jun;4(2):19-48.

Aging in Kerala: one more population problem?

Rajan SI.

PIP: In India, in 1981, the number of persons over age 60 was 42.5 million; this 
number is expected to increase to 75.9 million in 2001. The average proportion 
of elderly (over age 60) in India as a whole was 6.3% in 1981; for Kerala, the 
percentage was 7.6%. Kerala's growth rate was always faster than India's as a 
whole, until 1971 when the annual growth rate declined. Population projections 
predict that the elderly population in Kerala will increase from 2.2 million in 
1986 to 4.6 million in 2011 to 8.3 million in 2026. Factors which contribute to 
population aging include 1) decreases in fertility and mortality; 2) decline in 
the infant mortality rates, from 242/1000 live births (1911-1920) to 30/1000 
live births in 1985; 3) from 1971-1981, a substantial improvement in the 
mortality rates for ages 0-14, but only a marginal change among youth and a 
moderate decline in the middle ages and among the elderly; 4) except for ages 
35-39, male mortality rates higher for men than for women; 5) the highest life 
expectancy in India, which is also increasing; and 6) a projected total 
fertility rate of 2.3 for 19861990. Changes in age composition include 1) the 
percentage of those aged 0-14 years declined 42.6% in 1961 to 35% in 1981, and 
the percentage of elderly increased from 5.8% in 1961 to 7.5% in 1981; 2) in all 
3 census periods, 1961, 1971, and 1981, the percentage of females aged 0-14 was 
smaller than males, but larger in all other age groups; 3) over 80% of Kerala's 
elderly population reside in rural areas; 4) projections of population by broad 
age group between 1986 and 2026 show a continuous decline in the age group 0-14 
and an increase among the elderly; 5) in 2026, more women will be in older age 
groups than men; 6) in 2026, the number of men and women in the working age 
population will substantially increase; 7) in 2026, there will be a marked 
decline in the proportion of children; 8) the youth dependency ratios are 
expected to decrease from 52.9 in 1986 to 37.3 in 2026, while the elderly 
dependency ratios are expected to increase from 13 in 1986 to 30.9 in 2026. By 
2026, Kerala will have 6.3 million people aged 60-74 and 2 million people aged 
75 and older.

PMID: 12316022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Asia Pac Popul J. 1989 Jun;4(2):75-9.

Women and population aging.

Kunugi T.

PIP: In 1985, there were approximately 427 million persons aged 60 and over in 
the world, accounting for about 9% of the world's population. By 2020, the 
elderly population will comprise 13% of the world's population and 70% of these 
people will live in developing countries. Governments and international agencies 
should increase their efforts and activities to improve care for the elderly 
within the family unit. The socioeconomic implications of aging are greater for 
females because of their higher life expectancy. In the year 2000, 11% of the 
world's female population will be aged 60 and over. By 2025, there will be 604 
million elderly women in the world, 70% of whom will be living in developing 
countries, and among them, 70% in rural areas. An important issue requiring both 
research and policy attention is the interdependence among women's economic, 
health, and social concerns, which increase with age. The author calls for more 
specific policies that aim to eliminate discrimination against disabled persons, 
the elderly, and particularly elderly women. The author urges governmental and 
nongovernmental organizations to implement these recommendations: 1) promote 
research studies and the collection and analysis of information on the 
socioeconomic, health, legal, and demographic situation of elderly women; 2) 
promote awareness of elderly women's contribution to society; 3) eliminate 
discriminatory treatment of elderly women; 4) develop health promotion programs 
and services to meet elderly women's long-term care needs; 5) promote wider 
appreciation of continued participation of elderly women in social and cultural 
activities; 6) promote the development of elderly women's organizations and 
self-help groups; 7) promote and assure the participation of elderly women in 
the process of development; and 8) develop literacy programs and training 
programs for elderly women.

PMID: 12316025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Pop Sahel. 1989 Jan;(8):16-9.

[Population and development in the Sahel. Re-establishing the population - 
resources equilibrium].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The communication "Population and Development in the Sahel" presented by 
Drs. Dieudonne Ouedraogo and Cheick MBacke presented a passionate debate about 
the dynamics of population growth and the need to integrate demographic 
variables into development planning in the Sahel. The countries of the Sahel are 
seeking means of overcoming their unprecedented economic crises. The programs of 
structural adjustment that were intended to assure lasting economic growth have 
often failed to do so and have also exacerbated already acute demographic 
problems. The Sahelian population is predominantly rural. The crude birth rate 
of 47.3/1000 and mortality rate of 17.4/1000 yield a natural increase rate of 
2.4%/year between 1960-88. The life expectancy at birth of 49 years is lower 
than the estimated 52 years for Africa as a whole. The growth rate is projected 
to increase to 3.1% by 2005 and the total population will reach 80 million by 
2010. The structure of the population is not expected to change greatly in the 
next 2 decades. The proportion rural may decline from 75% to 65% by 2005. In 
view of the inevitable rapid growth of the population, a rate of economic growth 
at least as high will be required just to insure that already low living 
standards do not decline further. The only solution will be to try to influence 
the determinants of fertility and mortality as well as those of economic growth 
so that the specter of famine will not further menace the area. Despite the 
perceptible improvement of health conditions, the situation is still precarious. 
The Sahel has the lowest literacy rates in the world and an inadequate and 
inefficient educational system. Apart from rapid population growth and acute 
population problems, the Sahel is experiencing an economic crisis aggravated by 
an unprecedented drought. The fragile economies are dominated by agricultural 
and livestock raising activities permanently threatened by natural disasters. 
The proportion of cereals imported to the Sahel has increased from 5% in 1960 to 
12% at present. Self-sufficiency is declining at the same time that rapid 
demographic growth is destroying the relative equilibrium between nature, 
population, and resources of the pre-colonial period. The structural adjustment 
programs neglect the social aspects of development by reducing living standards 
through inflationary pressures, which most sharply affect the poorest population 
sectors. The countries of the Sahel are in urgent need of population policies, 
defined as combinations of economic, social, and demographic measures for 
attaining integral development. Senegal is the only country that has published a 
population policy, but it is likely to be joined by the remaining Sahel 
countries in coming years.

PMID: 12316033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Pop Sahel. 1989 Jan;(8):5-9.

[A program of action for the Sahel].

[Article in French]

Ignegongba K.

PIP: A conference on the theme of "Population policies in the Sahel: 
characteristics and perspectives" held at N'djamena in 1988 was attended by over 
60 representatives of Sahel countries and international organizations. Some 40 
million persons were estimated to live in the Sahel in 1988. Population 
distribution is very unequal both in the region and within countries. The 
population of the arid northern sectors is sparse and predominantly nomadic. 
About 24% of the overall population is urban, but urban populations are growing 
at rates of 6-10% annually because of drought and difficult economic conditions. 
Population is growing at 2.7%/year overall, among the fastest in the world. The 
crude birth rate and crude death rate were estimated at 48/1000 and 21/000 
respectively in 1988. The total fertility rate of 6.5 exceeds the African 
average of 6.3. But the life expectancy of 49 years is among the lowest in the 
world. The economies of the Sahel countries are suffering from the world 
economic crisis, the prolonged drought, and constantly worsening terms of 
exchange. Most Sahel countries have initiated structural adjustment programs 
which have had varying degrees of success but at elevated social costs. The per 
capita gross national product of $256 in 1986 makes the countries of the region 
among the poorest in the world. Integration of the population variable into 
social and economic development plans is 1 possible way of improving the 
wellbeing of the peoples of the Sahel. 2 countries, Gambia and Senegal, have 
already developed official population policies. To encourage other Sahel 
countries to develop and implement coherent policies, the conference at 
N'djamena adopted a specifically Sahelian program called the "Program of Action 
of N'djamena concerning population and development in the Sahel." The program 
integrates actions defined in the Sahelian strategy for combatting the drought 
and desertification. The program contains 11 objectives on such topics as 
population policy, morbidity and mortality, and fertility and family planning 
designed to achieve a better balance between economics and population growth. 
The objectives recommended actions for the governments of the Sahel countries 
and for international organizations.

PMID: 12316035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Popul Res. 1989 Jun;6(2):18-32.

The establishment of parity-variable fertility model based on family planning 
practice.

Lin F.

PIP: This paper describes a parity-variable fertility model created to meet the 
needs of China's family planning program. This model can include such internal 
population factors as 1st marriage rates, 1st birth rates, the birth spacing 
rate, the infertility rate, as well as factors affecting fertility. As China's 
socioeconomic development is not balanced between regions, so there are also 
regional differences in marriage and childbearing intentions between urban and 
rural areas and between Han and other ethnic groups. During the fertility 
transition, the factors affecting fertility are relatively stable. The 1st birth 
rate in the 1st year after marriage increased by 10% in 5 years, which was 
certainly a result of later marriage. The parity-variable fertility model is a 
combined type of dispersive model. For the purpose of population projection, the 
general fertility model can be used, yet the calculations using the 
parity-specific data are similar to the former ones quantitatively. Population 
projections can be made for China using the model. The projections show that 
China's total population will range from 1.25 to 1.3 billion by the end of the 
century. From 1986- 1995, the natural increase rate will remain at about 
13.8/1000. As a result of substantial fertility decline and a gradual increase 
in life expectancy, the population will experience rapid aging in the near 
future. The per capita gross national product should be $800-1000 US by the end 
of the century.

PMID: 12316067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1989 Apr;45(1):1-18.

[[A treatise on the change in age structure and its determinants: an appraisal 
of the World Population Plan of Action]].

[Article in Japanese]

Kono S.

"The purpose of the present paper is to review...recent...trends in population 
age structure in the world and its major regions, to assess the determinants of 
those trends, and to explore [issues] relating to recent and projected changes 
in the age structure of population and relationships of those changes to 
economic and social developments." Comparisons are made between developed and 
developing countries concerning age structure, life expectancy, birth and 
mortality rates, and demographic aging. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12316106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1989 Apr;45(1):19-33.

[[Effects of the Japanese mortality declines on life cycle variables]].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: The impact of mortality declines on Japanese marriage patterns is analyzed 
for the period from 1965 to 1985 using the life table method. The primary focus 
is on marriage duration and widowhood duration as they are affected by the 
increase in life expectancy. Sex differentials are also described. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

PMID: 12316107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Popul Today. 1989 Dec;17(12):12.

Spotlight: Haiti.

May JF.

PIP: Haiti has a population of 5.9 million, their land area is 10.714 square 
miles, and their population density is 551/square mile. Their birth rate is 
47/1000, their death rate is 16/1000 and their yearly growth is 3.1%. Most 
Caribbean countries have life expectancy of 70 years but Haiti has only 55 
years. In the last few years the average lifetime fertility has increased from 
5.5-6.7 children/woman. Less than 50% of children attend primary school and 
birth control is practiced by less than 10% of the people, and has been this way 
for over 20 years. Agriculture is the country's largest industry, but with low 
production and deforestation as major problems, it can no longer support the 
increasing rural population. This has caused large emigration in the 1980's to 
other countries such as the US, Canada, and the Dominican Republic. Family 
planning programs have not been successful because of opposition of certain 
groups. It is estimated that the population could reach 9.5-15.5 million by the 
year 2025 and life expectancy could increase to 67 years. The full effects of 
the HIV virus are unknown at this time but it is spreading at a rapid rate. The 
government is trying to develop a population policy and to make family planning 
available to all couples. Since there is more uncontrolled Haitian emigration 
than ever before, this could be a regional problem that the neighboring 
countries will have to address.

PMID: 12316152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Eur J Popul. 1990 Mar;5(4):347-72. doi: 10.1007/BF01796792.

Multistate life table with duration dependence: an application to Hungarian 
female marital history.

Belanger A.

"Building on recent developments in multistate demography, and using data from 
the 1984 Hungarian microcensus, this paper analyzes the impact that the 
introduction of duration-specific transitions has on the results of a multistate 
life table analysis of marital dissolution. The results show that the inclusion 
of duration has its greatest impact on the distribution of the stationary 
population between ages 25 and 35." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796792
PMID: 12316170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Janasamkhya. 1989 Dec;7(2):103-19.

Fertility level changes in India.

Sarkar BN.

PIP: Survey data from India consistently show that female education above the 
primary school-level is the most powerful determinant of lowered fertility. The 
Government of India's strategies of increasing accessibility to family planning 
methods and improving the population's quality of life have been impeded by low 
levels of female education. The finding that rural women experience 0.8 more 
live births than their urban counterparts is a reflection of the higher 
education of the latter group. Within Calcutta, females in slum areas had an 
average of 5.6 live births compared to 3.5 births among those from nonslum parts 
of the city, again reflecting the influence of education on fertility. In the 
high-fertility states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhyapradesh, 
Haryana, and Jammu and Kashmir, the percentage of females with an education 
above the primary level is under 5%. The intermediate variable of education 
beyond primary school seems to exert its effect on fertility by both raising the 
age at marriage and promoting use of modern contraceptive methods. Women with 
1-4 years of education comprise the majority of sterilization acceptors; 
however, this minimal amount of education is not sufficient to motivate women to 
delay marriage and to use family planning methods to space births. Given the 
critical importance of female education, authorities in India should design 
extension programs and door-to-door campaigns to motivate parents to send their 
daughters to school and keep them enrolled.

PMID: 12316273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Janasamkhya. 1989 Dec;7(2):93-102.

India in the demographic trap.

Reddy PH.

PIP: Since 1980, India has experienced no further declines in the birth rate 
while mortality continues to drop. The birth rate has remained constant at 
32-33/1000 despite dramatic increases in the proportion of couples protected 
from unwanted pregnancy from 24% in 1980-81 to 41% in 1986-87. Without a 
national family planning program, India's birth rate certainly would have 
increased substantially during this period. Among the social factors that appear 
to have undone the effects of rising contraceptive prevalence are increases in 
the proportion of women in the 15-29 year age group, improved maternal 
nutritional and health status so that fecundability is increasing, and the 
erosion of traditional customs such as prolonged breastfeeding and remarriage by 
widows. In terms of economic conditions, there have been no improvements in the 
1980s in per capita income that would push India into the 3rd stage of the 
demographic transition. Of concern is the theory that, when societies become 
trapped too long in this 2nd stage, economic decline and ecological 
deterioration occur. At present, foodgrain production has been able to keep pace 
with population increases, but such production cannot increase indefinitely 
without soil erosion, deforestation, and other environmental degradations. 
Moreover, when no more grasslands and forests are available for conversion to 
cropland, the number of landless households will increase. In fact, the number 
of landless households has already grown from 15 million in 1961 to 26 million 
in 1981 and is projected to reach 44 million by the year 2000. Among the 
implications of landlessless are agrarian conflicts, rural political unrest, low 
life expectancy, malnutrition, and illiteracy. To avoid the consequences of 
stagnation in the rate of fertility decline, the Government of India is urged to 
adopt an aggressive population control effort.

PMID: 12316277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Rev Mex Sociol. 1990 Jan-Mar;52(1):83-109.

[Mortality in the 1980s].

[Article in Spanish]

Camposortega Cruz S.

PIP: The author analyzes mortality levels in Mexico by age and sex according to 
selected socioeconomic and geographic variables for the period 1980-1985. 
Mortality in 1980 is first reviewed. Complete life tables are then provided for 
1983-1985 for the whole country. Male mortality showed the greatest decline, due 
to a decrease in deaths from violence and accidents.

PMID: 12316461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1990;8(2):11-35.

[The evolution of mortality by cause in France since 1925: problems and 
solutions].

[Article in Spanish]

Vallin J.

PIP: The author analyzes the evolution of mortality by causes of death in France 
since 1925. Aspects considered include reporting discontinuities caused by 
successive revisions of cause-of-death definitions; the number of deaths due to 
indeterminate causes; the formulation of an etiological reclassification; and 
the contribution of particular causes of death to changes in the expectations of 
life at birth.

PMID: 12316464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1990;8(2):51-72.

[Autoregulated mechanisms, demographic evolution, and intraregional 
diversification. The example of the population of Galicia at the end of the 
eighteenth century].

[Article in Spanish]

Eiras Roel A.

PIP: The author examines characteristics of the population of Galicia, Spain, at 
the end of the eighteenth century. Data from the 1787 census are analyzed 
concerning age and sex distribution, births, fertility, mortality by age, 
longevity, expectation of life, nuptiality, emigration, family size, and 
population growth using six different demographic models to illustrate regional 
differences in population trends.

PMID: 12316466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Chin J Popul Sci. 1989;1(1):77-94.

Effects of changing demographic factors upon women's family status in China: a 
model of a family status life table and its application.

Zeng Y.

PIP: The author presents a life table model for China based on Bongaarts nuclear 
family model and the concept marker of the family, who is identified as the 
senior women in the family. The attached appendix details the calculations. The 
type and size of the family are determined by the status change of every marker 
in the family; the marital, parity, and maternal states. Co-residence in the 3 
generation family as well as families maintaining close emotional and economic 
ties regardless of residence are included. Comparisons of demographic changes 
are made for 1950-70 and 1981. The following factors are relevant to 
understanding this model. 1) Fertility, mortality, and marriage rates by age 
group are considered artificially constant. 2) The Markov hypothesis operates in 
such a way that birth variations for women at specific age groups vary with 
marital status. 3) The model is female only. 4) The divorce and re-marriage rate 
is indirectly estimated. The findings indicate that along with provincial data, 
82.3% remained single in 1981 before the recommended marriage at the mature age 
of 20. Although the multi birth rate appears low, the distribution of births for 
50-year-olds indicates the 47.6% have 3 or more births and multi births still 
represent a serious problem.

PMID: 12316562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Imbonezamuryango. 1990 Aug;(18):6-9.

[Family planning and diverse declarations of human rights].

[Article in French]

Gakwaya D.

PIP: Human beings have always desired to claim their rights, even in times when 
only a small proportion of the population was considered fully human and the 
rest were slaves, servants, uncivilized, colonized, underdeveloped, or, in the 
recent euphemism, "developing". The French Declaration of the Rights of Man of 
1789 marked the 1st time in history that rights for all people were publicly 
affirmed. The rights in question were essentially constitutional and political, 
but the idea of claiming rights had been born. In 1948, the international 
community approved the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which encompassed 
all types of rights. Other international acts on civil and political rights and 
the rights of women and children have complemented and interpreted the 1948 
document. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirmed that all human 
beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that all persons have a 
right to satisfaction of economic, social, and cultural needs. The convention on 
elimination of all forms of discrimination against women referred in its 
preamble to the particular disadvantages of women living in poverty and affirmed 
the right of all women to education in health and family welfare, including 
family planning, as well as to medical and family planning services. Women were 
affirmed to have the same rights as men to decide freely and in an informed 
manner on the number and spacing of their children and to have access to the 
information, education, and means to exercise these rights. The United Nations 
has demonstrated its interest in Population Commission in 1946 and of the UN 
Fund for Population Activities in 1969, and through decennial worldwide 
population conferences in 1954, 1965, 1974, and 1984. UN demographic goals 
include reduced fertility on a worldwide basis, a reduced proportion of women 
not using reliable contraception, a substantial reduction of early marriage and 
adolescent pregnancy, reduction in infant and maternal mortality, a life 
expectancy of at least 62 years in all countries, and a better geographic 
distribution of population within national territories permitting rational use 
of resources. Governments which subscribed to the declaration and conventions on 
human rights should respect their promises. Population growth which outpaces 
increases in production will make it increasingly difficult to satisfy the 
rights and needs of all population sectors. A government confronted with this 
problem is obliged to explore every possible means of increasing production but 
must also seek to control population growth. Contraception is a legitimate means 
of achieving this end.

PMID: 12316572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Eur J Popul. 1990 Sep;6(3):205-25. doi: 10.1007/BF01796619.

Morbidity and mortality: differentials and their trends.

Pollard JH.

"To establish whether medical science has managed to ensure quality of life 
during the additional years of life now available in many populations requires a 
relatively complex interactive model of morbidity and mortality. The development 
of such a model has been the prime objective of this paper. For the model we 
describe, formulae were derived which allow a health scientist to explain the 
contributions, by age, of different diseases to changes in life expectancy in 
healthy or less than healthy states, and for a particular disease, the 
contribution of disease prevention, successful disease treatment (leading to 
recovery) and mortality prevention. Such an analysis can be very helpful for 
health policy purposes. Formulae were also developed for studying trends in life 
expectancy differentials in terms of changes in rates of disease prevention, 
disease treatment success and mortality prevention." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796619
PMID: 12316599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Yugosl Surv. 1989;30(4):3-28.

The population of Kosovo.

Breznik D.

PIP: Population dynamics in Kosovo, an autonomous region of the Yugoslav 
Republic of Serbia, are analyzed over the past 100 years. Sections are included 
on past trends; natural increase; fertility; life expectancy and mortality; 
migration; changes in population characteristics, including age, economic 
activity, and ethnic groups; and population projections to 2021.

PMID: 12316602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Demogr Issled. 1990;14:108-11.

[Socioeconomic aspects of regional differences in mortality among the rural 
population of working age].

[Article in Russian]

Foigt NA.

"Regional differences in the life duration of [the] able-bodied rural population 
[in the Ukrainian SSR] are briefly analyzed. [The] mortality rate of this 
population is considered in connection with labour conditions in agriculture." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG AND UKR)

excerpt

PMID: 12316711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Demogr Issled. 1990;14:44-50.

[Methodological problems of studying length of life among the population of the 
Ukraine].

[Article in Russian]

Rudnitskii EP.

PIP: The author critically analyzes methodological issues involved in studying 
length of life among the population of the Ukrainian SSR. Abbreviated life 
tables are constructed for the periods 1896-1897, 1926-1927, 1938-1939, and 
1948-1949. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND UKR)

PMID: 12316717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Integration. 1990 Oct;(25):19-22.

Recent trends of the population in the Soviet Union.

Kono S.

PIP: The author, who attended a UN seminar held in the USSR, reports on the 
recent trends of population dynamics in the host country, the 3rd most populous 
nation in the world. In 1989, the USSR's population was 286.72 million, up from 
262.44 million in 1979. 51.4% of the population lives in the Russian Soviet 
Federated Socialist Republic, an intriguing fact considering that there are a 
total of 15 republics in the USSR. Moreover, 3 republics (Russia, the Ukraine, 
and Byelorussia) account for 73.2% of the country's total population. The author 
questions reports that the Ukraine is seeking independence, noting the 
similarity in ethnicity and language between the Ukrainians and Russians. 
However, the author acknowledges cultural differences between Russia and the 
Baltic republics (latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia). Differences also exist 
between republics concerning fertility rates. While Russia, Byelorussia, and the 
Baltic states have a total fertility of 2.1 (net replacement fertility), 
minority republics in the southern region have dramatically higher fertility 
rates: 5.5 for Tajik, 4.7 for Uzbek and Turkemia, and 4.1 in Kyrgyz. Another 
significant fact of the USSR's population dynamics is its stagnant, or even 
retarded, life expectancy. Between 1960-70, life expectancy was 64.4 for men and 
73.4 for women. Between 1979-80, these figures dropped to 62.2 and 72.5, 
respectively. They somewhat recovered during 1985-86, increasing to 64.2 for men 
and 73.3 for women. Throughout the USSR, but especially in Russia, there is a 
wide disparity in the life expectancy between men and women (as high as 11.5 
years in Russia from (1979-80). In his visit, the author found that Soviet 
demographers and statisticians spoke candidly and openly, reflecting the changes 
brought about by perestroika and glasnost.

PMID: 12316754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1990;8(3):21-65.

[An example of demographic differences in Aragon: country and city in the 
seventeenth century].

[Article in Spanish]

Anson Calvo MD.

PIP: The author compares the demographic features of a rural and an urban area 
in the region of Aragon, Spain, in the seventeenth century. Aspects considered 
include fertility, nuptiality, mortality, age at marriage, life expectancy, and 
family structure and average number of children. Data are primarily from parish 
baptism, marriage, and burial records.

PMID: 12316835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Popul Today. 1991 Jun;19(6):3-4.

AIDS gains momentum in 1990s.

Roudi N.

PIP: The relentless course of the AIDS pandemic in the world, the U.S. and in 
Africa is summarized with recent data and theoretical models. WHO has received 
reports of 345,533 cases as of April 1, 1991 from 162 countries, but estimates 
that over 1 million is more accurate. The proportion of women infected is 1/3 
worldwide, 1/8 in the U.S. and 1/1 in Africa. In 2000 the ratio is expected to 
be 1:1 overall. In the U.S. 100,777 cases were reported from 1981-1990, yet 
one-third were actually reported in 1990, showing an acceleration in cases. AIDS 
became the leading cause of death in young deaths, including women aged 20-40. 
59% of cases were homosexual and bisexual men; 21% were intravenous drug users. 
Death rates have been highest for Blacks (29.3%), Hispanics (22.2%), compared to 
8.7% for Whites and 2.8% for Asians and American Natives. The CDC estimates that 
about 1 million are infected with HIV in the U.S., with median survival times of 
18 months. 25% of the world's AIDS cases are thought to be in sub-Saharan 
Africa, where heterosexual contact is the primary mode of transmission. AIDS is 
expected to kill 1.5-3 million women in Central and East Africa in the 1990s, 
orphaning million of children. 15-45% of pregnancy infected women pass HIV to 
their newborns, accounting for 250,000 HIV-infected infants in Africa by 1992. 
Predictions by the U.S. Department of State Interagency Working Group are that 
HIV will multiply by 7 in sub-Saharan Africa by 2015, infecting 8% of the total 
population and 16% of urban people. Average survival will be reduced by 19 years 
and population growth will decrease to 1.8%, still a moderate growth rate.

PMID: 12316883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Communist Econ. 1990;2(3):347-71. doi: 10.1080/14631379008427651.

Health and mortality in Eastern Europe, 1965-85.

Eberstadt N.

The author explores reasons and indicators for the high morbidity and mortality 
rates of Eastern Europe and the USSR during the period 1965 to 1985. 
"Epidemiological reasoning would prompt profound questions about the impact of 
governance on health conditions in these areas. The populations...have different 
languages, cultures and histories....[and] vary in material and technical 
attainment. The most obvious common characteristic of these countries is that 
they have all been ruled by Marxist-Leninist states.... After more than two 
decades of health decline...it is perhaps not premature to inquire into whether 
the health problems evidenced in these countries might be in part systemic."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/14631379008427651
PMID: 12316990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Chin J Popul Sci. 1989;1(4):449-58.

Mortality of population in China and Japan: a comparative analysis.

Huang R.

The author compares mortality in China and Japan from 1950 to 1985 and analyzes 
the differences between the two countries. Consideration is given to sex 
differences, regional differences, and trends in the major causes of death. The 
analysis shows "the gap between China and Japan in the health standards of the 
population [and also suggests] a course for [reducing] mortality of the Chinese 
population.... There is great potential...of reducing infant mortality, 
especially for female infants....Moreover, the further control of infectious 
diseases can still play a major role in raising the average life expectancy of 
the Chinese population in the years ahead."

excerpt

PMID: 12317000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Stat Szle. 1991 Aug-Sep;69(8-9):667-81.

[Decomposition of the differences in life expectancies].

[Article in Hungarian]

Valkovics E.

"This study decomposes the differences between average life expectancies at age 
x by double standardization into effect of differences in the mortality 
structure by causes of death, and into effect of differences in the average life 
expectancies of those deceased due to certain causes of death, relying on 
abridged life tables by causes of death as for Belgium and Hungary in 1984.... 
The mortality structure by causes of death is more favourable in the case of 
females in both countries, but it contributes less to the rather significant 
differences in general mortality level. It is worth mentioning that the 
differences in the mortality level of males and females presents itself more 
definitely in Hungary than in Belgium." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12317010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Health Millions. 1991 Dec;17(5):25-7.

A strategy for reducing numbers? Response.

Banerji D.

PIP: The article on human entrapment in India by Maurice King is just another 
example of the dogmatic, simplistic and reckless way in which the white scholars 
of the North formulate their ideas. It is these people who are responsible for 
the opium wars, programs against Jews, and carpet bombing, defoliation, and 
massacres in Vietnam. King's idea os using UNICEF and the WHO to kill the non 
white children of the South is just another example of this kind of racist 
brutality. It is based only upon the written opinions of other white scholars. 
In 1991 King produced no data about human entrapment in India. King ignores the 
writing of non whites like Ashish Bose who presided over the International 
Population Conference in 1989. Other mistakes that King makes include a failure 
to understand the applications of immunization (EPI) and oral rehydration 
programs (ORT). The EPI was implemented without ever taking baseline data, so 
that its effectiveness is impossible to determine with any accuracy. And nowhere 
in the world has ORT worked as well as UNICEF claimed it would. Further proof 
that King advocates genocide is his labeling of the insecticide-impregnated 
bednets as a dangerous technology in increasing entrapment. King fails to 
acknowledge the overwhelming influence of white consultants on the policies and 
planning strategies of family planning programs in India. Their list of failures 
includes: the clinic and extension approach, popularization of the IUD, mass 
communication, target orientation, sterilization camps, and giving primacy to 
generalists administrators. They should be held accountable for the 406 million 
people added to the base population between 1961-91 It should also be noted that 
India had the ability absorb this large number people while still maintaining a 
democratic structure, gather a substantial buffer stock of food grains, 
consistently increasing its per capita income while decreasing its infant 
mortality and crude death rates, increase its life expectancy at birth and 
improve the level of literacy, especially for females.

PMID: 12317111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Health Millions. 1991 Dec;17(5):30-3.

Kerala: a unique model of development.

Kannan KP, Thankappan KR, Ramankutty V, Aravindan KP.

PIP: This article capsules health in terms of morbidity, mortality, and maternal 
and child health; sex ratios, and population density in Kerala state in India 
from a more expanded report. Kerala state is known for its highly literate and 
female literate, and poor income population, but its well advanced state of 
demographic transition. There is a declining population growth rate, a high 
average marriage age, a low fertility rate, and a high degree of population 
mobility. One of the unique features of Kerala is the high female literacy, and 
the favorable position of women in decision making and a matrilineal inheritance 
mode. The rights of the poor and underprivileged have been upheld. The largest 
part of government revenue is spent on education followed by health. Traditional 
healing systems such the ayurveda are strong in Kerala, and Christian 
missionaries have contributed to a caring tradition. Morbidity is high and 
mortality is low because medical interventions have affected morality only. The 
reduction of poverty and environmentally related diseases has not been 
accomplished inspite of land reform, mass schooling, and general egalitarian 
policies. Mortality declines and a decline in birth rates have lead to a more 
adult and aged population, which increases the prevalence of chronic 
degenerative diseases. Historically, the death rate in Kerala was always lower 
(25/1000 in 1930 and 6.4 in 1986). The gains in mortality were made in reducing 
infant mortality (27/1000), which is 4 times less than India as a whole and 
comparable to Korea, Panama, Yugoslavia, Sri Lanka, and Colombia. Lower female 
mortality occurs in the 0-4 years. Life expectancy which was the same as India's 
in 1930 is currently 12 years higher than India's. Females have a higher 
expectation of life. The sex ratio in 1981 was 1032 compared to India's of 935. 
Kerala had almost replacement level in 1985. The crude birth rate is 21 versus 
32 for India. In addition to the decline in death rates of those 5 years, the 45 
year population has also experienced a decline. In the 15-24 age group, the most 
common cause of death is suicides (53/100,000 or 25% of all deaths) and 
accidents. Further study is needed to examine the determinants. 76% have 
hospital births. Home deliveries are related to low social class. Pregnancy risk 
is avoided in higher groups. Child health has been improved by the rise in 
marriage age, the small family norm, better women's education, greater decision 
making for women, and health care availability: all socioeconomic factors.

PMID: 12317117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1991;9(3):67-86.

[Inverse projection and indirect estimation of mortality: results for a group of 
Catalan localities].

[Article in Spanish]

Munoz Pradas F.

PIP: The author applies inverse projection and indirect estimation techniques to 
mortality data for a group of 12 localities in Catalonia, Spain, to determine 
changes in life expectancy at birth during the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries. The methodology is briefly described, and trends in mortality levels 
for these areas are estimated.

PMID: 12317193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Cah Que Demogr. 1991 Spring;20(1):115-44.

[Spatial mortality disparities in the metropolitan region of Montreal, 
1984-1988: an ecological analysis of the role of social, economic, and cultural 
factors].

[Article in French]

Choiniere R.

Geographic differentials in mortality and life expectancy in the region 
surrounding Montreal, Canada, are compared. The author notes that "despite a 
marked drop of mortality in the Montreal region, there are still important 
geographic disparities at the end of the [1980s]....A multiple regression 
analysis shows that the proportion of poor and the percentage of immigrants 
account for more than 80% in the geographic disparities of life expectancy in 
the Montreal region." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12317199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Cah Que Demogr. 1991 Spring;20(1):95-114.

[A logistical model of life tables according to cause of death. An application 
to the Italian tables of 1975-1979].

[Article in French]

Maccheroni C.

PIP: The author presents a model to estimate the life expectancy indicators used 
in the life table analysis of mortality by cause of death. Data from life tables 
for Italy for the period 1975-1979 are used to illustrate the model. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG AND SPA)

PMID: 12317205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Maandstat Bevolking. 1992 Mar;40(3):17-24.

[Marriage, marriage dissolution, and death 1976-1990: figures from life tables].

[Article in Dutch]

Prins CJ, Levering J.

Life table data for the Netherlands are presented by marital status, age, and 
sex for four Dutch cohorts: never married, married, divorced, and widowed. "The 
numbers of survivors in each marital status are computed using sex, age and 
marital status specific rates...." Consideration is given to nonmarital 
fertility; average ages at first marriage, divorce, and remarriage; life 
expectancy at birth; and average age at death by sex and marital status. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12317209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1991 Jun;25(1):1-10.

Mortality rates experience of Kuwait.

El Mansoury M, El Habashi M, El Bassioni MY.

PIP: The authors compute the death rate for the population of Kuwait, based on 
data from Kuwaiti insurance companies, which hitherto have used life tables from 
the United States and England to compute expected mortality. Graduated mortality 
rates are introduced, as is a discussion of data adjustment. Finally, Kuwait's 
new adjusted mortality rates are compared to foreign life tables, and large 
discrepancies are found. The time period covered is 1985-1989.

PMID: 12317211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Temas Poblac. 1991 Dec;1(4):5-16.

[Health levels in San Andres Cholula].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez Martinez A, Corro Fernandez G, Balmaceda M.

PIP: In matters of health and curing, the community of San Andres Cholula in 
Puebla, Mexico, demonstrates a syncretism similar to religious syncretism. 
Perspectives on illness and health consistent with the traditional medical 
practices of curanderos coexist with modern medical practices. Curanderos and 
physicians often treat the same patients. A curandero's powers are viewed as a 
special gift transmitted by God or the saints during a dream. The curandero 
effects a cure not only through knowledge of the medicinal plants, rites, and 
ceremonies, but by understanding the context of the patient. The Western medical 
concept of disease emphasizes a biological model and technological control, to 
the detriment of mental, behavioral, and social factors and determinants. The 
traditional medical concept stresses the relationship of the individual to the 
social and ecological environment. Improvements in life expectancy in the 
developing countries in recent years have been attributed to improved levels of 
living or to importation of vaccination programs, antibiotics, and similar 
technologies from the developed countries. The vital register of San Andres 
Cholula records many deaths whose cause cannot be easily interpreted according 
to the World Health Organization International Classification of Diseases. It is 
clear, however, that the root cause of many deaths is malnutrition. The 
proportion of deaths caused by infectious diseases has declined in Mexico since 
1940, but Puebla is still included among the states with the highest incidence. 
There are great regional and rural-urban mortality differentials in Mexico. In 
the past 50 years, the infant mortality rate has declined from 250 to 40/1000 
live births in San Andres Cholula, more as a result of vaccination campaigns 
than of improved levels of living. 89% of children have been vaccinated, but the 
population still lives in about the same state of material comfort as it has for 
generations except that most households have televisions. Less than 15% on the 
other hand have refrigerators, and many are poorly fed, clothed, and housed. A 
nutritional study found a very low consumption of animal protein, fruits, and 
vegetables in San Andres Cholula. 22% of households stated they had only 2 
meals/day. Although respondents were asked only about what foods they ate and 
not what quantities, the low weights for age of infants and children indicated 
deficient nutritional status.

PMID: 12317228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Bangladesh Dev Stud. 1991 Sep;19(3):125-7.

Human development index: a critique.

Chowdhury OH.

PIP: This discussion focuses on the advantages and disadvantages of constructing 
a summary measure of the multidimensional and dynamic concept of development. 2 
indexes are referred to: the UN Development Programme; human development index 
(HDI) and the Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI). PQLI weights equally life 
expectancy at 1 year, infant mortality, and literacy, regardless of the 
correlation of variables and the arbitrariness of the weights. PQLI also is 
assumed to measure the quantity of life, not the quality. HDI measures quantity 
and quality and includes life expectancy, literacy, and real GDP/capita, and may 
include a measure of human freedom. Objectivity is a major problem with any 
index. Assignment of weights is an example of arbitrariness without 
justification and the index is sensitive the weights assigned. There is a 
paradox between defending weights on the 1 hand and, if robustness of the index 
is assumed and components are correlated, then any single component could 
suffice. A more serious criticism of the HDI is the weighting of each rank order 
of the country by 1/3 and summing the weighted ranking of the 3 indicators. The 
flaw here is the problem of application of ratio scales on ordinal magnitudes. 
The rank correlation coefficient between real GDP/capita and life expectancy, 
real GDP/capita and literacy; and literacy and life expectancy are .90, .80, and 
.89, respectively. HDI is also correlated with GDP/capita (.87). Composite 
indexes are not sensitive to variability in components or the imbalance in 
components, e.g., a country with low means but high literacy. The goal should 
continue to be to develop a conceptually and methodologically acceptable summary 
measure. It is suggested that a necessary component is economic development. 
Countries may be ranked according to their level of economic development in 
order to measure their achievements in human development. A weighted 
distribution of income/capita is a better indicator of the economic well being 
of a country because it reflects the maldistribution of income. Access to 
available government goods and services by income groups should also be taken 
into account. Purchasing power parity should replace income/capita in nominal 
prices for international comparisons due to the presence of nontradable goods 
and services and distortions from exchange rate anomalies, tariffs, and taxes. 
Thus, a replacement for HDI is purchasing power parity adjusted real 
income/capita weighted by the distribution of income which uses the Gini 
Coefficients.

PMID: 12317337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Shengzhi Yu Biyun. 1991 May;11(2):63-5.

[Comparative evaluation of UCD and UCD-Cu].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng QG.

PIP: In order to improve the contraceptive effectiveness of the stainless steel 
uterine cavity shaped device (UCD), a copper-plated uterine cavity shaped device 
(UCDcu) was developed. A comparative study on these two kinds of IUDs was 
conducted between May 1986 and March 1987 involving ten collaborative 
institutions. 2009 women aged 20-40 who had regular menstrual cycles without 
excessive bleeding and with no history of pelvic infection were recruited for 
the study. The UCD cu was inserted in 1004 women, and the UCD was inserted in 
1005 women. The insertions were conducted after menstrual periods, after 
abortion procedures, during periods when the women were feeding, or after 
Cesarean sections. Both groups of women were comparable in their distributions 
of age, parity, occupation, and the time period of IUD insertions. They were 
examined at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the insertions. The life table method 
was used to calculate failure rates, and Chi-square tests were used to examine 
the differences in the rates. The 12 months accumulated pregnancy rate was 0.32 
in the UCDcu group and 2.99 for the UCD group. The difference was statistically 
significant. The differences in expulsion rates and experiences of side effects 
were not statistically significant. Excessive menstrual bleeding led to 10 
removals in the UCDcu groups and 5 in the UCd group, but there were more 
removals due to menstrual cramping in the UCD group than in the UCDcu group 
