(5:0). The UCDcu is superior to the UCD in pregnancy and expulsion rates is 
associated with no significant disadvantages when compared to the UCD. Further 
basic and clinical investigations on the UCDcu are warranted.

PMID: 12317372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Popul Bull UN. 1992;(33):32-46.

Sensitivity of aggregate period life expectancy to different averaging 
procedures.

Lutz W, Scherbov S.

PIP: In 1988 the UN gave a life expectancy of 59.6 years for both sexes for the 
world total for the 1980-1985 period. The 1990 revision gives a figure of 62.1 
years for the same period. This gain of 2.5 years in global life expectancy is 
rather the consequence of a different way of aggregating national life 
expectancies into regional and global ones. In the 1988 revision, life 
expectancies were weighted by the number of births in each population. In the 
1990 revision, populations were actually merged according to age groups, and the 
life expectancy of the joint population was calculated. The extent of the 
difference between the 2 methods of aggregation depends on heterogeneity in the 
aggregated age structures and on different mortality patterns. A set of 100,000 
pairs of populations were simulated by using the Brass logit life-table approach 
and expressing the complete range of regional model life-tables at different 
mortality levels. The result was that merging populations and calculating a 
joint life expectancy was the more appropriate procedure for migration between 
the subpopulations. Further mortality improvements in different populations also 
advise against weighting life expectancies by the number of births. In the US 
male and female life expectancies are weighted according to the sex ratio at 
birth, however, in Austria they are averaged 1:1, and in the Soviet Union the 
male and female populations are merged according to age groups. When averaging 
regions or other subpopulations which are open to migration, a merging of 
populations and the calculation of a joint life expectancy seems to be clearly 
preferable.

PMID: 12317480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Eur J Popul. 1992;8(3):217-46. doi: 10.1007/BF01797211.

Delayed childbearing in contemporary Spain: trends and differentials.

Castro Martin T.

PIP: Data from the 1985 Spanish Survey of Fertility including 8789 women aged 
18-49 years is used to examine the timing of 1st births from marriage. 
Premarital births are excluded. Life table estimates are used to describe trends 
and differentials. A piecewise constant hazard model, which assumes a constant 
transition rate within each duration segment (0-7, 8-12, 13-18, 19-24, 25-36, 
and 37-48 months), and discrete-time hazard models are used in the analysis. 
Analysis is devoted to the trends in the timing of 1st birth, differentials in 
the timing of transition to 1st birth as affected by age at marriage, education, 
labor force participation before marriage, religiosity, number of siblings, 
place of residence, and region. Fertility has declined from 2.7 in 1975 to 1.3 
in 1990 while the country adapted to a democratic political process, 
legalization of contraceptives, and relaxation of gender roles. There was rapid 
family formation during the 1960s and 1970s. Recent marriage cohorts have been 
delaying the birth of a 1st child and birth control has increased. Premarital 
conceptions have increased. Differentials in timing of 1st birth did not affect 
fertility because delayers still had children. Postponement of childbearing is 
new to Spain and may reflect unstable economic conditions or security of women's 
position in the labor market. Cultural norms have also changed to define an 
appropriate time for childbearing as not immediately after marriage. Life table 
estimates show the median age of women at 1st birth as 25.6 years in the early 
1980s compared to 24.6 years in the later 1970s. The interquartile timing of 1st 
births ranged from 14 months for the 1970-74 birth cohort to 26 months for the 
1980-83 cohort. Women who married in the 1960s and early 1970s had their 1st 
child within the 1st year of marriage. Observations are that motherhood remains 
unchanged, timing reflects intercohort differences, postponement occurs after 
1975, and differentials are not constant across marriage duration. Marriage 
cohort composition has changed to women with higher education, lower 
religiosity, smaller families of origin, and increasing labor participation 
before marriage, which shows in the life table estimates to postponement. The 
rate differentials between 1965-69 and 1970-74 cohorts are statistically 
significant in the multivariate model.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01797211
PMID: 12317495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Ren Kou Xue Kan. 1991 Feb;(1):49-52.

[Analysis of fundamental chains of family planning systematic engineering in the 
countryside].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu S.

PIP: Establishment of a system for old age support in rural areas of China is an 
important aspect to ensure the success of a family planning (FP) program. The 
necessity of such a system was examined from the following perspective. 1st, 
children are sources of old age support due to lack of social security and 
pension systems in rural areas. This had been the key reason motivating some 
rural farmers to ignore FP regulations and continue to have children. Unless the 
livelihood of a rural population is ensured in some way, it is difficult to 
achieve FP program objectives. 2nd, the increasing life expectancy and declining 
fertility made the population age process occur rapidly, e.g., the population 
aged 65 and over will increase from 7% at the end of the century to 17% in the 
2030s. Living and health care of the old age population at that time would be an 
important need for the society. 3rd, changes in family patterns from extended to 
nuclear families have gradually changed the position of old people in the family 
which made it unfeasible to rely entirely on children for old age support. 
Several systems of old age support have been suggested. Government and the 
community should take responsibility for establishing a social security system. 
The role of the government will be in educating the public on the importance of 
social security programs, training professionals to work in these programs, 
formulating laws and regulations on social security, and supporting a social 
security system through taxation and welfare programs. The communities may help 
set up the organizational structure and make financial contributions to the 
social security system. Insurance companies or commercial banks may set up 
special coverage or saving programs for old age support. The role of children to 
support parents would still be important for a certain period of time. The 
current pilot projects on a rural social security system in 270 countries were 
an important starting point for helping the rural population to reduce the need 
for children and to reduce the opposition to family planning programs.

PMID: 12317522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Naselenie. 1992;(4):45-54.

[Mortality, ethnicity, and the standard of living in Israel].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Anson J.

"The present analysis looks at the mortality differences between two major 
population groups in Israel, the Arabs and the Jews. While the differences in 
standard of living (SOL) between these two groups may be expected to account for 
most of the mortality difference between them, we consider whether there is also 
a qualitative majority-minority group effect.... The results indicate that Arab 
life expectancy is higher than would be expected given the SOL. Unlike Jewish 
life expectancy, however, which is positively related to the SOL, Arab life 
expectancy is negatively related for males, and unrelated for females. An 
explanation is offered in terms of the effects of discrimination on the sense of 
coherence of those members of the minority group who are the most integrated 
into the majority society." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12317544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. South Afr J Demogr. 1990 Jul;3:33-6.

The indicators used to monitor the progress of the Population Development 
Programme in South Africa.

Gouws NB.

PIP: The main goal of the Population Development Programme in South Africa is to 
ensure a balance between resources and population size. Secondary objectives 
include improving the quality of life for all sectors of society, accelerating 
development, integrating family planning with development programs, and 
fostering community involvement with the program. The program has identified 
education, manpower training, primary health care, the economy, and housing as 
areas of primary importance to address in seeking to realize program goals. The 
rate of infant mortality, life expectancy at birth, teen pregnancy, personal per 
capital income, literacy, children not attending school, and room density were 
then identified and quantified as indicators of progressin these areas. The 
importance of each indicator and its influence on fertility is discussed in 
turn.

PMID: 12317579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Konjunkturpolitik. 1991;37(3):183-97.

[The women of the German Democratic Republic in the mirror of demography (a 
retrospective look)].

[Article in German]

Roloff J, Speigner W.

PIP: A review of demographic trends in East Germany over the period of its 
existence from 1950 to 1989 is presented. The emphasis is on how social and 
economic conditions affected the fertility and mortality of women. The authors 
note that fertility remained relatively high, although below replacement level, 
despite widespread female labor force participation. They suggest that social 
policies designed to ensure compatibility between employment and motherhood may 
have contributed in this area. Increases in female life expectancy are also 
noted, but at lower levels than in other developed countries.

PMID: 12317601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Chin J Popul Sci. 1991;3(2):157-66.

Analysis of the marriage and fertility survey of Yi minority women in the fringe 
areas of Liangshan Mountain.

Pan X, Wang R, Zhang P.

PIP: Based on data from a survey of 937 Yi women aged 15-64 years in Bianyuan on 
Liangshan Mountain in Malong and Gaoping Townships in China, this study compared 
the marriage and fertility characteristics of 1986 to those of 1982. The more 
closely the Yi live together, the worse their economic and health care 
conditions are due to their isolation from the outside world. These conditions 
are not conducive to the practice of birth control. The results show that 
married Yi women living in fringe areas have fewer live births than Yi women 
living on Liangshan Mountain. Child survival is similar in both areas. The Yi of 
Liangshan Mountain believe that high fertility is a necessary compensation for 
high mortality. Evidence from Yi in fringe areas may help dispel the fears of 
birth control and change beliefs about the balance between mortality and births. 
The Yi in fringe areas have better economic, cultural, and health care 
facilities. They exhibited a postponed mean age of first marriage, fewer early 
marriages, and lower mortality. Life expectancy was longer and fertility lower 
as a result of the birth control program operating in the fringe area. Fertility 
among the Yi women in Bianyuan is 19.85% among the unmarried, 75.46% among the 
married, 4.48% among the widowed, and .21% among the divorced. Fertility is 
higher for the married and unmarried but lower for the divorced or widowed than 
in fringe areas. A higher percentage of 15-19 years old and a lower percentage 
of 20-24 years olds are married in Liangshan Mountain. 80% of Yi women 20-24 
years old who live in fringe areas are married. The mean age at marriage has 
been slowly rising, and until the 1980s, there was little significant difference 
between Yi women in fringe or mountain areas. There is as low rate of widowed 
and divorced women in fringe areas. The mean age of first birth has also risen 
over time. Liangshan Mountain fertility was 201.12/1000 for general fertility 
and 7.49993 for total fertility, while for fringe areas it was 85.11/1000 and 
2.7738 respectively. This demonstrates controlled fertility in fringe areas. 
Enforcement of family planning policy is lax on Liangshan Mountain. THe peak 
fertility among Liangshan Mountain women is 358.38/1000 in the peak age group of 
25-29 years, while for fringe areas, it is 236.38/1000 with the peak age group 
being 20-24 years. Live births/woman are 3.72 on Liangshan Mountain and 2.72 in 
fringe areas.

PMID: 12317653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Chin J Popul Sci. 1991;3(2):89-95.

The basic instrument for the study of China's population and employment: the 
labor life table.

Jiang Z.

PIP: The data and methods are provided for generating a labor life table for 
China in 1988. The purpose is to supply a useful instrument for studying, 
planning, and analyzing employment and social services, welfare programs, and 
insurance. These tables were constructed using age- and sex-specific employment 
data from the 1% sample of demographic data for 1987 in 13 nonfarming sectors. 
Employment was derived from the 1985 Industrial Survey on 2 sectors of the 
nonfarming population. Urban employment and rural agricultural employment were 
not calculated because of the imprecision of the data. The age structure has 
unique characteristic differences between the employment rate curves of the 
material and nonmaterial production sectors. The peak for the nonmaterial 
production sector is near 50 years for men and 44 years for women, while the 
curve for the material sector is more nearly bell-shaped with a peak for females 
at 20-30 years. The female employment pattern indicates that women continue 
working after the birth of a child, and women do not return to the work force 
once they resign. The reasons for the pattern in nonmaterial production are 
indicated. The method used to calculate the labor life table employs the same 
methods as the multiple life table approach for mortality, with some 
modifications. The assumption is a static labor population between the ages of 
15-70 years. The age for which employment is the highest is selected; then the 
number of people employed is generated. Employment beyond the peak age is 
derived through the % of the labor force in the total population. The arithmetic 
mean value of the labor force for adjacent age groups is determined by survivors 
until a particular age. Mean work expectancy years and age-specific cumulative 
labor force are calculated per the life table method. As data become available, 
causes of death of the labor force and transfer of labor between sectors and 
regions may be computed. An example of retirement information is that 60-year 
old workers receive their pensions for an average number of years following 
retirement of 17.8-3.33 give or take 14 years. The data provided in this article 
are also available from the 1990 Yearbook of the Chinese Populations.

PMID: 12317654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Rom J Gerontol Geriatr. 1991;12(3-4):257-65.

The influence of life expectancy variations and of the survivals number on the 
change in prevalence of some groups of persons from the overall population.

Ghenciu G, Balaci M, Arcan VM.

PIP: The authors examine changes in the distribution of cohorts aged 45, 60, 75, 
and 85 and over, using official data for Romania for the period 1900-1989. 
Consideration is given to the effect of changes in life expectancy and 
survivorship. (SUMMARY IN FRE AND RUM)

PMID: 12317677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. People Planet. 1992;1(3):24-5.

Planning for the next generation.

Valdes C.

PIP: Poverty, illiteracy, and lack of government commitment or ability to solve 
social ills translates into rapid population growth in central American isthmus 
countries: El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and even Costa Rica and 
Panama. The social conditions in Panama and Costa Rica lead to better family 
planning (FP). Educational and health resources are lacking for the rest of the 
countries. High birth and infant mortality rates and political unrest contribute 
to the total fertility rate in Honduras of 5.4 children/woman, the growth rate 
in Nicaragua of 3.4%, and the contraceptive use rate f 23% among married women 
in Guatemala and 27% in Nicaragua. The population of El Salvador is expected to 
double to 11 million in 25 years. FP efforts are being threatened in Costa Rica 
and Panama due to the doubling of the poor population since 1983 and the 
cutbacks in government spending for FP. For every North American woman who dies 
of maternal mortality, 134 die in Central America. Today the power of the 
Catholic Church is offset by the government population policy and programs of 
private organizations. Improvements have been made in Costa Rica in maternal and 
child health services and FP; life expectancy for children has increased 22 
years in Honduras; and total fertility is under 3 children/woman in Panama. 
Private organizations have taken the lead in FP programs. Although population 
policy is part of development, national governments still lack the political 
will to solve the problems of access to basic health care and education, better 
water and sewers, and good food and jobs. The civil wars in Nicaragua and El 
Salvador and insurgency in Guatemala have diverted resources for health care, 
housing, and education. The gross national products in each of these countries 
is US$910/person/year. FP funds must compete with education, health care, and 
other basic services for government spending. The systems for FP have been 
established, but the political will is missing. In 1992, the isthmus countries 
participated in a Safe Motherhood Conference which adopted a Guatemala 
Declaration for reducing maternal morbidity and mortality, to prevent unwanted 
pregnancies, and to solve the problems of abortion complications. FP priorities 
were to link population with health and FP and the environment and education and 
woman's status, to expand FP, to provide sex education, and to involve men in 
FP.

PMID: 12317703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Naselenie. 1992;(5):9-19.

[A brief outline of demographic development in Bulgaria].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Totev A.

The author reviews the major demographic trends of the twentieth century in 
Bulgaria. "The results from the analysis show that the demographic development 
of Bulgaria especially in the years after 1950 differs very little from the 
developed, urbanized and industrialized countries. The common features are: 
development towards [replacement] fertility, [lower mortality rates], zero 
natural growth [leading] to an increasing life expectancy at birth, [and] 
population ageing...." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12317747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Maandstat Bevolking. 1992 Dec;40(12):18-27.

[Population forecasts, 1992].

[Article in Dutch]

De Beer J.

PIP: The author summarizes the 1992 update of the official population projection 
to the year 2030 for the Netherlands and compares it with the forecast made in 
1991. A rise in life expectancy is anticipated. The odds are two to one that 
population size in 2030 will be between 16.4 million and 18.2 million." (SUMMARY 
IN ENG)

PMID: 12317748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Genus. 1992 Jan-Jun;48(1-2):1-17.

The second dimension: a proposed measure of the rectangularity of mortality 
curves.

Anson J.

"The present paper proposes a measure of the shape (rectangularity) of the 
mortality curve which is statistically orthogonal to (independent of) the level 
of mortality over a broad range of national life tables, both historical and 
contemporary.... We have proposed [using]...a ratio of survival probabilities in 
two broad age ranges, in middle and young adulthood. It is suggested that this 
measure is an effective first approximation, which can be built on both 
methodologically and substantively, in order to obtain a better understanding of 
the social and other conditions producing rectangular and troughed mortality 
curves." Data for selected developed countries are used to test the model. 
(SUMMARY IN FRE AND ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12317861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Genus. 1992 Jan-Jun;48(1-2):89-105.

Analysis of underlying and multiple-cause mortality data.

Moussa MA, El Sayed AM, Sugathan TN, Khogali MM, Verma D.

"A variety of life table models were used for the analysis of the (1984-86) 
Kuwaiti cause-specific mortality data. These models comprised total mortality, 
multiple-decrement, cause-elimination, cause-delay and disease dependency. The 
models were illustrated by application to a set of four chronic diseases: 
hypertensive, ischaemic heart, cerebrovascular and diabetes mellitus. The life 
table methods quantify the relative weights of different diseases as hazards to 
mortality after adjustment for other causes. They can also evaluate the extent 
of dependency between underlying cause of death and other causes mentioned on 
[the] death certificate using an extended underlying-cause model." (SUMMARY IN 
FRE AND ITA)

excerpt

PMID: 12317872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Int Migr Rev. 1992 Winter;26(4):1,342-69.

The internal migration and spatial redistribution of the foreign-born population 
in the United States: 1965-70 and 1975-80.

Belanger A, Rogers A.

"This article examines the importance of place of birth [for] the internal 
migration and spatial redistribution patterns of the foreign-born population in 
the United States during the 1965-70 and the 1975-80 periods, relying 
principally on the Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) files for our input data. 
The diverse nationalities are aggregated into eight different regions of origin: 
Mexico, Puerto Rico, Rest of South and Central America, Europe, Asia, Africa and 
Oceania, Canada and the Rest of the World. First, the regional distribution of 
these eight groups at the 1970 and 1980 censuses are examined. Next, the spatial 
redistribution of the foreign-born population and its changes over time are 
studied...." This paper was originally presented at the 1990 Annual Meeting of 
the Population Association of America.

excerpt

PMID: 12317910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1993 Jan;48(4):1-15.

[[Future life expectancy and causes of death in Japan]].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi S.

PIP: The author examines projected trends in life expectancy and mortality by 
cause in Japan to the year 2025. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12317976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Maandstat Bevolking. 1993 Apr;41(4):12-25.

[Mortality in the Netherlands population forecasts].

[Article in Dutch]

Van Hoorn WD.

Trends in life expectancy in the Netherlands are reviewed, using mortality data 
from the 1992 official Netherlands population forecasts. Data are presented by 
age and sex. "A main conclusion is that mortality in recent years has developed 
more favourably for men than for women." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12317997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Profamilia. 1992 Jun:4-13.

[The impact of family planning on reproductive health].

[Article in Spanish]

Trias M.

PIP: Until relatively recently, sheer survival has been a more pressing concern 
of most human populations than has control of population growth through 
contraception. Today family planning with its varied technologies has become an 
accepted behavior of the majority of fertile couples. Colombia has achieved a 
satisfactory contraceptive prevalence rate largely due to private institutions. 
The decline from 6.5 to 3.5 children per woman that required 58 years in the US 
(1842-1900) required just 15 years in Colombia, according to UN data. Other UN 
publications demonstrate that family planning prevalence is strongly correlated 
with quality of life as measured by income, life expectancy, and education, with 
family planning and quality of life tending to improve simultaneously and 
coherently. Reproductive health might more appropriately be considered sexual 
health, since most couples wish to continue sexual relations without fear of 
unwanted pregnancy. Reproductive health defined as referring to fertile-aged 
women and children under 15 concerns around 2/3 of the population in developing 
countries. Although the reproductive health of a country depends in large 
measure on the physical and mental well-being of its women, discrimination 
against women in education health, employment, and participation is a serious 
problem in many countries. Accessibility of family planning is another indicator 
of women's status. The potential health benefits of avoiding births before age 
20 and after 35, high parity births, and closely spaced births are well known. 
Avoiding all such births would reduce maternal mortality by 20-25% worldwide, 
saving 100,.000-125,000 maternal lives. Proper spacing would also combat infant 
mortality. Infant survival programs that omit family planning as a component are 
short sighted. Family planning has the important benefits of reducing recourse 
to abortion and of allowing savings in public services including health care, 
education, and nutrition. In the area of family planning, Colombia's PROFAMILIA 
continues to prefer a cafeteria approach in which numerous contraceptive options 
are available. It has been demonstrated that each new method increases the 
number of acceptors by 6% on average. The especially for women who want to 
terminate childbearing. Morbidity and mortality rates of the different 
contraceptive methods, even in the worst conditions, are lower than they would 
be if contraception were not used. Oral contraceptives, for example, are 4-5 
times less risky than nonuse of contraception. PROFAMILIA is currently seeking 
authorization to use a new combined monthly injectable contraceptive called 
Cyclofem. The subdermal implant NORPLANT has been well accepted in Colombia.

PMID: 12318090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Chin J Popul Sci. 1992;4(4):351-6.

An analysis of the longevous population in Bama.

Yang J.

PIP: Using data from the 1990 census and from a questionnaire survey conducted 
in Bama Yao Autonomous County, Guangxi, China, the author analyzes the 
population aged 80 or older. Characteristics examined include ethnic group, 
family surname, geographical area, season of birth, sex, occupation, literacy, 
family characteristics, health, and long-lived ancestors.

PMID: 12318214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. China Popul Today. 1993 Feb;10(1):14-8.

The situation of the Tibetan population in Tibet.

Sun H, Xia G.

PIP: A demographic profile of selected population statistics is provided for 
Tibet. Included are population growth trends and current population counts, the 
sex and age structure of the population, the fertility rate, the death rate, and 
the average life expectancy. Data are based on the 1990 national population 
census. The Tibet Autonomous Region had a population of 2,096,718 on July 1, 
1990, and represents 96.11% of the regional population. Population has increased 
from 1,300,900 in 1964 (96.6%) and 1,786,500 in 1982 (94.4%). The Han population 
living in Tibet was 2.93% in 1953, 4.85% in 1964, and 3.09% in 1982. The Han and 
other ethnic group populations have never exceeded 10% of the Tibetan 
population. Han and other ethnic groups are higher in Nyingchi and Lhasa City, 
but the other 5 prefectures have over 97% Tibetan population. The native Tibetan 
population numbers 1,034,819 males and 1,061,899 females, with a sex ration of 
97.45. There are more females in the population older than 50 years. The median 
age of the population was 21.77 years. 36.46% of the population aged 0-14 years 
and 4.81% is aged 65 years and older. The pyramidal age structure of the 
population follows a normal distribution. The total fertility rate was 4.36 in 
1000. The 5th and higher parities are the largest parity group and suggests that 
family planning is not being practiced. The mean childbearing age was 29.39 
years in 1989. The death rate was 8.70/1000 in 1989. Average life expectancy was 
61.99 years in 1989; for males it was 59.53 years and for females 64.31 years. 
Life expectancy is lower by 9 years than that of China's population in 1989. 
Fertility is at the level of all of China before family planning was introduced 
in the 1970s. Other measures are within the national averages.

PMID: 12318245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Asia Pac Pop Policy. 1993 Jun;(25):1-4.

Shifts in household demographics herald economic changes for Thailand.

Greenspan A.

PIP: In Thailand, dramatic changes in households and the health status of the 
population have led to important implications for the economic sector. These 
changes affect health, education, housing, employment and transportation. A new 
book on the economic impact of demographic change by Andrew Mason and Burnham O. 
Campbell is referred to as a full discussion of the issues. National planning 
and projections must include household characteristics as well as numerical 
projections. The analysis of Mason and Campbell is summarized in this article. 
Important changes are occurring in the size, rate of growth, and age structure 
of Thailand's population. Life expectancy has risen to 63 years for men and 68 
years for women. Fertility has fallen to 2 children/woman. Population growth was 
1.9% in 1990. In 1990, there were only 1 in 3 under the age of 15, and these 
numbers are expected to shrink to 1 in 4 by the year 2000. 60% of the population 
is of working age; this is expected to increase to 65% by the year 2000. The 60 
years old population is expected to be 7.5% of the total in the year 2000. The 
average household has 1.6 children. 96% of households live with a relative. The 
expectation is that household size will continue to decrease and the number of 
households will continue to grow. The number of elderly heads of households is 
expected to rise to 11% by 2010. Households will become "adultified." The policy 
implications for education are that the school age population will gradually 
decreases but the number enrolled will increase. Primary school enrollment will 
stabilize and then decline after 1995. Secondary school enrollment will increase 
and level off in 2005. Total enrollment will increase from 10.5 million in 1990 
to 11.4 million in 2000 and decline to 10.7 in 2015. These changes will allow 
for improvements in the quality of education and expand educational attainment. 
In health care, the demand for maternal and child health services will decline; 
changes will occur in the kinds of medical care needed.

PMID: 12318290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Popul Bull. 1993 Jul;48(1):1-40.

The Middle East population puzzle.

Omran AR, Roudi F.

PIP: An overview is provided of Middle Eastern countries on the following 
topics; population change, epidemiological transition theory and 4 patterns of 
transition in the middle East, transition in causes of death, infant mortality 
declines, war mortality, fertility, family planning, age and sex composition, 
ethnicity, educational status, urbanization, labor force, international labor 
migration, refugees, Jewish immigration, families, marriage patterns, and future 
growth. The Middle East is geographically defined as Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, 
Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Emirates, 
Yemen, Gaza and the West Bank, Iran, Turkey, and Israel. The Middle East's 
population grew very little until 1990 when the population was 43 million. 
Population was about doubled in the mid-1950s at 80 million. Rapid growth 
occurred after 1950 with declines in mortality due to widespread disease control 
and sanitation efforts. Countries are grouped in the following ways: persistent 
high fertility and declining mortality with low to medium socioeconomic 
conditions (Jordan, Oman, Syria, Yemen, and the West Bank and Gaza), declining 
fertility and mortality in intermediate socioeconomic development (Egypt, 
Lebanon, Turkey, and Iran), high fertility and declining mortality in high 
socioeconomic conditions (Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the 
United Arab Emirates), and low fertility and mortality in average socioeconomic 
conditions (Israel). As birth and death rates decline, there is an accompanying 
shift from communicable diseases to degenerative diseases and increases in life 
expectancy; this pattern is reflected in the available data from Egypt, Kuwait, 
and Israel. High infant and child mortality tends to remain a problem throughout 
the Middle East, with the exception of Israel and the Gulf States. War 
casualties are undetermined, yet have not impeded the fastest growing population 
growth rate in the world. The average fertility is 5 births/woman by the age of 
45. Muslim countries tend to have larger families. Contraceptive use is low in 
the region, with the exception of Turkey and Egypt and among urban and educated 
populations. More than 40% of the population is under 15 years of age. The 
region is about 50% Arabic (140 million). Educational status has increased, 
particularly for men; the lowest literacy rates for women are in Yemen and 
Egypt. The largest countries are Iran, Turkey, and Egypt.

PMID: 12318382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. China Popul Today. 1993 Jun;10(3):5-9.

A review of study of Chinese women.

Gu B, Liu P.

PIP: A review of studies of Chinese women in the population literature over the 
past decade indicates there have been significant changes in status, although 
many inequalities remain. Despite steady improvements in the education of young 
women and increased access to higher education, the average educational level 
for Chinese women was only 2.21 in 1987 compared to 2.65 for males. The maternal 
mortality rate has declined to 5/1000 and female life expectancy exceeds that 
for males; however, the mortality rate for girls 1-4 years of age remains 
unacceptably high due to son preference and infanticide. The employment rate of 
Chinese women has increased, but the overwhelming majority are working in manual 
labor jobs rather than in the commercial and service sectors. Moreover, the high 
proportion of employed females in the 15-19 year age group is reflective of the 
early abandonment of education. Also of concern is the low percentage of women 
over 50 years in the labor force, especially given the inadequacies of China's 
retirement system. The average age at marriage currently stands at 22.5 years, 
but at least 20% of marriages occur earlier than the legal age. Most encouraging 
are indicators of an increased consciousness of the importance of population 
control, even in remote rural areas. As expected, fertility decreases with 
increasing female education and employment, especially in sectors other than 
agriculture. Given the dearth of studies of Chinese women that are comprehensive 
or statistically sophisticated, researchers are urged to develop a set of 
indicators of women's status that can be applied to regularly generated 
population data.

PMID: 12318432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Sociol Focus. 1992 Oct;25(4):279-94. doi: 10.1080/00380237.1992.10570985.

Socioeconomic status, psychosocial factors and health in urban Guyana.

Williams DR, Wilson LC, Chung AM.

PIP: Individuals of higher socioeconomic status live longer and enjoy better 
physical and mental health relative to individuals of lower social status. 
Socioeconomic status differences in health status persist over time. This paper 
examines the association between socioeconomic status, psychosocial factors, and 
health in Georgetown, Guyana. The major causes of death are cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular disease; life expectancy at birth is 67.3 years for males and 
72.3 years for females; and the infant mortality rate is 44 per 1000 live 
births. Data for the study were drawn from a probability sample of 654 adult 
residents of Georgetown. A significant inverse association was found between 
formal education and morbidity for four of the six measures of health status. 
The authors investigated the extent to which self-concept, health behaviors, 
stress, and social ties are linked to health status and socioeconomic status, 
and can explain socioeconomic status differences in health status. Psychosocial 
factors, especially the self-concept measures of self-esteem and mastery, were 
found to play a moderate role in accounting for educational differences in 
health status.

DOI: 10.1080/00380237.1992.10570985
PMID: 12318541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Pop Sahel. 1993 Aug;(19):3.

[Return to the family].

[Article in French]

Ouaidou NG.

PIP: Sahelian countries occupy an inglorious place in the global list of human 
development. The human development index is superior to the gross national 
product (GNP) at measuring the progress of a country in terms of development, 
because it includes income, longevity, and educational level. The highest ranked 
Sahelian country holds the 114th position out of a 173 countries. The low human 
development index scores for the Sahel reflects the socioeconomic crisis which 
has overcome these countries. In 1991, only 3 of 9 Sahelian countries had a mean 
GP equal or superior to US$500. Just 2 countries had a life expectancy greater 
than 50 years. In fact, the Sahel had a lower life expectancy than all of Africa 
(50 years) and much lower than Asia (64 years) and Latin America (67 years). The 
economic crisis is worse than the cold statistics show. It destabilizes the most 
disadvantaged populations. The pressure it exerts often leads public authorities 
to adopt unpopular measures. It depreciates some sociocultural values and 
disintegrates traditional social structures. It is accentuated by the effects of 
war and drought. Internal and external migration increases even as urban hope is 
uncertain. For most people, the family (the traditional framework of individual 
development) is ready to break apart, leaving only a disincarnate nuclear entity 
to subsist. Yet, African history is built around the extended family: the place 
of reproduction, production, distribution, formation, management, perpetuation 
of demographic behavior, and social control. Senegal and Mali have created 
ministries which invest in families. The Third African Conference on Population, 
in 1992, chose its theme to be the relationship between family, population, and 
sustainable development. It is important to return to the natural or primordial 
framework--family--as a refuge against the economic crisis.

PMID: 12318645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. China Popul Today. 1994 Feb;11(1):9-10.

Uphold "three stresses" to improve family planning implementation.

China. Rongcheng. Family Planning Committee.

PIP: Shandong Peninsula, China, includes 24 towns, 4 townships, and 1006 
villages with a total 1992 population of 754,000. Due to the family planning 
program (instituted in the mid 1950s), and its emphasis on the "three stresses" 
since 1983, the rate of natural increase was maintained for the past decade at 
6.59/1000. Marriage and childbirth has been deferred and the annual rate of 
planned births is 99%. Neonatal mortality is below 10/1000 and life expectancy 
is 76 years. There have been 260,000 births averted. In 1966, national 
commendation was given for the achievements in family planning. The city now 
ranks 12th among the top 100 counties that are the most economically developed. 
Success was linked with an effective IEC programs. Changing public opinion was 
accomplished by placing family planning slogans and cards in windows of public 
places and commercial centers. Contests were held, and performances publicized 
family planning. There are 1162 population schools in the county which have 
trained 10,000 family planning publicity workers and about 400,000 others since 
1987. Radio and television stations have broadcast regular programs on family 
planning and population twice a week since 1987. Everyone has radio sets and 90% 
have televisions. IEC promotion has also been concerned with social security and 
alleviating poverty. Contraceptive prevalence among reproductive age women is 
now 91%. After 25 years of family planning operation, the "three stresses" were 
introduced and popularized in 1983. The goal was no early marriages, no early 
births, no induced abortions, and no unwanted births. The program strengthened 
family planning agencies, promoted women's services, oversaw birth quotas, and 
distributed contraceptives at the grassroots level. By 1991, the city began 
promoting control of population growth and improvement in human resources. The 
"four priorities" were formulated by the city for acceptors; housing sites, 
business licenses, recruitment of only-child parents for work, and nursery and 
kindergarten admissions for only children and employment of only children. 
Retirees with-only child certificates will receive an additional 5% pension.

PMID: 12318710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Math Popul Stud. 1994;4(4):225-33. doi: 10.1080/08898489409525377.

Frailty selection in bivariate survival models: a cautionary note.

Moreno L.

"One problem that researchers face in analyzing the survival times of groups of 
related individuals is selecting how the distribution of frailty--an unobserved 
(or not adequately observed) random factor--should be specified. Several 
distributions have received attention--for instance, the gamma distribution and 
a nonparametric N-point, discrete probability distribution. Researchers have 
selected these distributions more for mathematical convenience than for their 
ability to represent biological, social, or economic reality, and the 
implications of choosing one functional representation of frailty over 
alternative choices have not been studied extensively.... This research paper 
explores the association among survival times under gamma, inverse Gaussian, 
nonparametric N-point, and Poisson distributions. It shows that the pattern and 
strength of this association depends on how the distribution of frailty is 
specified." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898489409525377
PMID: 12318732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Math Popul Stud. 1994;4(4):259-81. doi: 10.1080/08898489409525379.

On the maximal life span of humans.

Aarssen K, De Haan L.

"Mortality data from the Netherlands are analyzed using recently developed 
statistical methods in the field of extreme value theory. It is shown that there 
is a finite age limit. A 95% confidence interval for the age limit is 113-124 
years. The results suggest differences between men and women. The suggested 
hypotheses could be tested on a larger data set." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898489409525379
PMID: 12318734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Bol Ed Col Mex. 1993 Jan-Apr;(47-48):27-32.

[Fertility change in Mexico and the politics of population].

[Article in Spanish]

Zavala De Cosio ME.

PIP: This introduction to a detailed study of fertility change in Mexico 
assesses the available fertility data and describes the sources used, traces the 
beginning and course of the demographic transition in Mexico, and describes the 
work. Mexico's demographic transition began around 1930 with the acceleration of 
mortality decline. The considerable time lag between the mortality decline and 
the beginning of the fertility decline resulted in a period of very rapid 
growth. Between 1955 and 1975, the growth rate exceeded 3% annually. The start 
of the fertility decline dated to about 1970, the time of a major reform of 
population policy and creation of institutions to reduce growth. But the 
fertility decline was not solely the result of population programs. An incipient 
fertility decline could be observed in the metropolitan and more educated 
population sectors beginning in the early 1960s. The onset of the mortality 
decline in the 1930s resulted from the sustained social and economic progress 
made possible after the conclusion of the Mexican Revolution. Between 1930 and 
1980, the adult illiteracy rate declined from 61.2% to 17%, while life 
expectancy increased from 33 years to 63.2 years. In Mexico as in other Latin 
American countries, the mortality decline, which disturbed the traditional 
balance between high mortality and high fertility, was the force setting off the 
demographic transition and the necessary precursor to fertility decline. The 
first of two main sections of the book focuses on examination of fertility 
variations in Mexico since around 1900 using cross-sectional and longitudinal 
methods of analysis. The second part describes the origins, history, and 
institutions involved in Mexico's population policies and the demographic 
programs and their principal results. The influence of population policies in 
demographic change is assessed, especially in the case of fertility changes 
induced by family planning programs. Both the first and second parts sought to 
place Mexican fertility trends in the context of the demographic transition and 
to observe the functioning and effects of demographic programs.

PMID: 12318847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Eur J Popul. 1994;10(1):43-68. doi: 10.1007/BF01268211.

Epidemiological transition of mortality curves in terms of the Brass logit 
system.

Vassin S.

"The purpose of this paper is to examine the long-term trends of life tables in 
developed countries according to two parameters of the Brass system in order to 
find the range of variation, consistent with historical life tables (or, in 
other words, to define 'a field of epidemiological transition')." The author 
finds that "1) In the past, the mortality curves had U- and J-shapes, the latter 
being connected with the impact of demographic crises....2) The elimination of 
the crisis component at the first stage of the transition resulted in the 
transformation of the mortality curves towards the U-shape....3) At the second 
stage social control is established over premature mortality. As a result, life 
expectancy grows, and the shape of the curves moves towards the J-shape....4) In 
the past the male and female life tables usually did not differ from each other 
as regards the value of the Brass model parameters. However, in the last 30-40 
years considerable sexual differences emerged both in the level and in the shape 
of the mortality curves." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01268211
PMID: 12318849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Audubon. 1994 Aug:51-2.

Crisis of a crowded world.

Chen V.

PIP: The debate ranges on about whether population growth is good or bad or 
neutral. Population experts have a new focus on the environment, education, and 
women's health, while giving continued attention to population control. 
Solutions are not apparent from Marxist or capitalist perspectives. The question 
is not free market and limits, but what lifestyles will be adopted by the mass 
population in developing countries. The Malthusian dilemma of balancing 
population and resources will remain. The problems of world population growth, 
natural resource conservation, and economic development are of such a magnitude 
that it will take international cooperation to provide solutions. The Cairo UN 
International Conference on Population and Development will begin to lay the 
foundation for a workable consensus. If 119 million people from Bangladesh or 
the 1.2 billion Chinese adopt Western life styles, there will be a devastating 
impact on environmental quality, not only from the numbers, but from the 
outdated and inefficient technologies. For example, in Mexico, cars do not have 
catalytic converters, which lack contributes to sever air pollution problems. In 
the United States, population growth is the 3rd fastest after Canada and 
Australia, and each American consumes vast amounts of natural resources. 
Environmental conservation might be better served if American population growth 
were curbed. It is the style of life and the level of life that is important, 
rather than sheer numbers. Population has grown from 1.7 billion in the world in 
1900 to 5.7 billion at present. Population will double again by 2050. The 
increase in numbers is accompanied by longer life expectancy, even with AIDS and 
the diseases. Africa has some of the fastest growing populations, and there is 
considerable poverty, disease, and lack of social services. There is ample 
evidence of environmental destruction and industrial pollution.

PMID: 12318863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Dev Sante. 1994;(112):23-6.

[The vaccination coverage rate: why is it so low?].

[Article in French]

Wembonyama O.

PIP: The problems hampering vaccination programs in Zaire include the 
inaccessibility of vaccination posts, the deplorable condition of vaccines and 
supplies, transport difficulties, and community disinterest. Most vaccination 
posts in Zaire are physically inaccessible and poorly stocked. They lack skilled 
staff and are unable to provide quality care. They do not have the means of 
providing themselves with vaccine; shortages are so common that vaccination 
schedules are difficult to follow. Refrigerators are usually not available in 
vaccination centers and are often diverted to other uses if they are available. 
The instructions for storing vaccines are often incorrectly followed. Single-use 
needles and syringes continue to be reused. Vehicles assigned to vaccination 
programs are often used for the private benefit of program officials or their 
families. Misuse of vehicles contributes to their short life expectancy. Local 
communities are disinterested in vaccination programs because they do not 
contribute to immediate survival. Moreover, the population regularly experiences 
the death of correctly vaccinated children. Some persons distrust vaccination as 
a trick to render women sterile or cause fever and convulsions in children. Mass 
vaccination programs are so poorly organized that their failure is predictable. 
The officials in charge spend most of their time in their offices rather than 
getting to know the target populations, and are often more interested in 
publicity for themselves than in the program. Press coverage is indispensable, 
but it should be devoted to furthering the program and not the careers of the 
officials in charge. Training of vaccinators, stocking of vaccination posts, and 
other essential tasks are often left until the last minute and improvised rather 
than carefully planned and implemented. The vaccinators are often unemployed 
persons who have little knowledge of correct techniques. Vaccination coverage 
could be improved if planners and health officials would acquaint themselves 
with the target communities, their health problems, and their perceptions of the 
vaccination program. Vaccination posts, hours of operation, and date of 
vaccination programs should be carefully planned to ensure that they are 
accessible to the population. The community should be informed about the program 
and motivated to participate. The logistics should be carefully worked out, and 
the vaccinators should be trained well in advance of the campaign.

PMID: 12318877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Afr Women Health. 1994 Jul-Sep;2(3):16-20.

Fertility reduction programmes should accompany land reforms.

Atiku J.

PIP: Changes in population size both affect and are affected by the rate of 
development. With the total world population estimated to be 5.7 billion in 
mid-1994 and annual growth at 1.7%, declines in total fertility rates and 
overall growth rates in developing countries have not been sufficient to 
precipitate a decline in actual numbers. The population of developing countries 
has doubled from 1962 to 1994. The highest growth rates are expected to be in 
sub-Saharan Africa, but the largest absolute increase in population is expected 
to occur in Asia. Uganda's population has increased from 4.9 to 16.7 million 
from 1948 to 1991. At the current rate of increase (2.5%) and taking AIDS into 
account, Uganda's population is expected to double in 28 years. Rapid population 
growth in developing countries can be explained by the following factors: 1) 
high levels of morbidity and mortality which threaten child survival and 
encourage large families; 2) early marriage which extends reproductive activity; 
3) a high value placed on children, especially sons; 4) unmet needs for family 
planning; 5) widespread poverty which causes children to be viewed as old age 
security; and 6) population momentum which would contribute to growth even if 
replacement fertility were achieved because of the current age-sex structure of 
the population. The impact of rapid population growth on development requires 
further study, but some things are clear. Economic development is hindered when 
the number of dependent and poor individuals in a population increases. High 
rates of fertility result in poor infant and maternal health. The provision of 
social welfare services and the capacity for providing basic services such as 
health care, education, safe water, and sanitation is strained by rapid 
population growth. Also, the quality of the environment is adversely affected by 
rapid population growth. Population policies should be developed for each 
country and should emphasize activities to improve individual health and 
welfare. Fertility reduction programs should be accompanied by economic 
policies, such as land reform. Uganda's proposed policy promotes intervention 
programs in health, nutrition, education, and the environment. To succeed, local 
support must be mobilized, and population problems should be addressed in a way 
