that integrates gender equity, empowerment of women, sustained economic growth, 
eradication of poverty, and international cooperation.

PMID: 12318956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Berl Hist Stud. 1994;19:129-43.

[Mortality of persons over age 80, Sweden 1750-1980].

[Article in German]

Tedebrand L.

PIP: Trends in the mortality and life expectancy of men and women aged 80 and 
over are analyzed for Sweden for the period 1750-1980. Comparisons are also made 
with other age groups. The data are from official statistics and the Demographic 
Database at Umea University.

PMID: 12319026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Berl Hist Stud. 1994;19:155-70.

[Mortality trends of birth cohorts in both German states: results and possible 
explanations].

[Article in German]

Dinkel RH.

PIP: Life tables for cohorts born after 1900 are used to compare mortality 
trends in East and West Germany. An attempt is made to explain the observed 
differences by examining factors such as medical care, environmental pollution, 
behavioral and dietary patterns, and migration.

PMID: 12319027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Berl Hist Stud. 1994;19:171-82.

[Mortality trends among the elderly in East and West Germany during the past 
decades].

[Article in German]

Schott J, Wiesner G, Casper W, Bergmann KE.

PIP: This article focuses on the extent to which increases in life expectancy in 
East and West Germany have been influenced by changes in the mortality of older 
people, particularly those aged 60-75 and over 75. The data are for the period 
1950-1987.

PMID: 12319028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Berl Hist Stud. 1994;19:183-96.

[Life expectancy in Germany today and tomorrow--and the consequences].

[Article in German]

Hohn C, Schwarz K.

PIP: The increase in life expectancy in Germany over the past century is 
reviewed, and projected changes up to the year 2019 are examined. Implications 
of demographic aging for areas such as health care costs, long-term care, and 
old-age security are discussed.

PMID: 12319029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Popul Today. 1995 Jan;23(1):1-2.

Demographic upheavals in the former USSR.

Haub C.

PIP: Fertility and life expectancy have changed since the breakup of the Soviet 
republics in 1991 and continue to change very rapidly. Before 1991, the USSR was 
the fastest growing developed country in the world. Annual growth rates in the 
mid-1980s were 0.9% compared to only 0.1% in Europe or 1.1% in the US. 
Immigration did not greatly affect the USSR's growth rate. By 1993, the 
population had declined in 8 of the 15 former republics. Deaths exceeded births 
in Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Estonia, and Latvia, followed by Lithuania in 1994. 
The last census was conducted in 1989. Fertility declined in Russia from 1.9 in 
1990 to 1.4 in 1993. Fertility has been low in Lithuania at 1.7, in the Ukraine 
at 1.6, in Latvia at 1.5, and in Estonia at 1.4. Kazakhstan, Georgia, and 
Kyrgyzstan have experienced fertility decline, which was affected by emigration 
to Russia and other countries after 1990. 25 million Russians have resided in 
the former republics in 1990. In Kazakhstan, the 160,000 more births than deaths 
were offset by 200,000 emigrants. Central republics with higher fertility 
experienced declines after 1990; for example, Kyrgyzstan declined from 3.7 in 
1990 to 3.3 in 1993. Life expectancy for males in Russia in 1993 was 58.9 years, 
which was a decline from 63.8 years in 1990. About 50% of the decline in life 
expectancy was due to circulatory diseases, and about 25% was due to external 
causes such as accidents, suicide, and alcoholism. Infant mortality has been 
increasing since 1990; for example, it increased in the Ukraine from 12.9 in 
1990 to 14.1 in 1992. Russia's population in 1993 experienced 700,000 more 
deaths than births. The demographic impact will be declining school enrollments 
and smaller employment among the working population to support the aged. The 
change to a market economy has been uneven in Russia, where it has advanced more 
rapidly than in the republics. It is unclear whether the declining birth rate 
and increasing mortality rates will continue, but ample evidence exists of rapid 
population change due to social and economic upheaval.

PMID: 12319057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. South Am Indian Stud. 1994 Mar;(4):18-36.

Demographic crisis and recovery: a case study of the Xavante of Pimentel 
Barbosa.

Flowers N.

PIP: This case study of the Xavante of Pimentel Barbosa is an example of an 
Amazonian Indian group that, when exposed to White society, experienced the 
common history of diseases and social disruption, and then eventually, recovered 
from the demographic shock, increased fertility, and reduced mortality. Early 
contact for the Xavante was during the early 18th century in Goias state, 
Brazil; by the end of the 19th century the Xavante had migrated west into Mato 
Grosso in isolation. Brazilian government interests (1940s) and a research 
expeditionary group (1962) resulted in health posts and extensive genetic, 
epidemiologic, and demographic studies. The results showed good physical and 
nutritional status, but stress from epidemic disease and social disruption. 
Conditions had improved by 1976, and the battle was with encroaching ranchers. 
Strong indian political action led to the securing of boundaries within the 
Pimentel Barbosa reservation by 1977. The population doubled from 249 in 1977 to 
411 in 1988, and increased to 3 villages. There was evidence of a return to more 
traditional practices. Data collection for this analysis occurred during 1976-77 
and 1988 and 1990. Results were provided for recent demographic change, recent 
births and deaths, factors affecting fertility, fertility change, parity and 
infant mortality, life expectancy changes, infanticide, population growth, 
marriage patterns, and health changes. Fertility histories were collected from 
71 women in 1971 and 109 women in 1990. Difficulties were encountered due to 
Xavante differences in enumeration of children. In the comparison of the surveys 
in 1977 and 1990, there was close correspondence of reported births, and 
discrepancies of 4-9 births and in age at death. The difficulties encountered 
were attributed to problems with interpreters. The demographic analysis showed 
evidence of introduced diseases, which increased infant mortality and threatened 
population replacement, followed by decreased infant mortality and a large 
cohort of reproductive age women increasing population growth. The history of 
this and similar populations is one of a rise and fall in population since 
colonial times. The seminomadic nature of this group may have saved them from 
extinction.

PMID: 12319064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Chin J Popul Sci. 1994;6(3):263-79.

A study on patterns in the average life expectancies and mortality rates of 56 
nationalities in China in 1990.

Jin Y, Su L, Chang P, Wang H.

PIP: Life expectancies and mortality rates were provided on the minority 
nationalities in China in the first half of 1990. For nationalities with a 
population over 1 million, data was provided for life expectancy, the total 
mortality rate, the standardized mortality rate, and the infant mortality rate. 
This data included 18 minorities: Mongolian, Hui, Tibetan, Uygur, Miao, Yi, 
Zhuang, Buyi, Korean, Man, Dong, Bai, Yao, Tujia, Hani, Kazak, Dai, and Li. Life 
expectancies for 47 minorities were under the national and Han average. The 
lowest was 51.45 years for the Wa. 20 minorities had values under 60 years, 
which amounted to about 25% of total minority population. About 80% of 
minorities had mortality higher than the national average. Infant mortality was 
about twice as high as the national and Han majority average. The range was 
between 10.1% for the Xibo nationality and 143.34% for the Wa nationality. The 
highest infant mortality was among 3 nationalities in Tibet and Xinjiang and 7 
nationalities in Yunnan Province. The lowest infant mortality (lower than the 
national average) occurs among a population of about 12.67 million, of which 95% 
are Man, Korean, Xibo, and Dawu'er. 95.53% of total minority population are 18 
minority groups with populations over 1 million people. Out of the 18 
minorities, 2 are above the national average (Man and Hui), 1 is just 2 years 
under the national average (Zhuang), and 5 are at or below 60 years of age 
(Hani, Tibetan, Kazak, Yi, and Uygar). The remaining 9 minorities have a life 
expectancy ranging between 63.75 and 66.72 years. 4.58% of total minority 
population comprise 15 nationality groups with population between 100,000 and 1 
million: Lisu, Wa, She, Lahu, Shui, Dongxiang, Naxi, Jingpo, Kirgiz, Dawu'er, 
Mulao, Qiang, Gelao, and Xibo. The Mulao, Xibo, and She groups are over 70 years 
life expectancy and the lowest life expectancies under 60 years include the Wa, 
Lahu, Lisu, and Kingpo from Yunnan Province. 15 nationality groups had a 
population from 10,000 to 100,000 and 7 had several thousand population. Life 
expectancies for the very small minorities follow similar patterns as other 
larger minority groups in the same geographic area. Standardized Life Loss 
Rates, where a high level indicates high child mortality, were also computed. 
Gender differences for the largest minorities were provided. Total and 
standardized mortality for females was below that for males. Female mortality 
lower than male mortality with similar life expectancy included the Man, Hui, 
Mongolian, Kazak, and Tu. Higher infant and child mortality for females included 
the Zhuang, Miao, Dong, Yao, Tukia, Yi, Buyi, Bai, and Hanni. Lower female 
middle age and elderly mortality was the pattern for the Korean, Buyi, Tibetan, 
Dai, and Yi. High reproductive age mortality occurred among the Uygur, Wa, 
Kirgiz, and Salar. Higher female elderly mortality than male mortality include 
the Qiang, Bulang, and Maonan. The highest level of health of minorities was in 
the northeast (10 million), which has a high minority population among the Man 
and Korean. The largest minority concentration is in the southwest with 30 
million distributed over 5 provinces; minority health is low in this region. 7 
million minorities with the worst health live in Yunnan Province. The lowest 
life expectancies occur among a population of 40 million, or 46% of total 
minority population: 11 groups in Yunnan, 4 groups in Xinjiang, the Tu in 
Qinghai, and Tibetans in Tibet, Sichuan, and Qinghai.

PMID: 12319168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Chin J Popul Sci. 1994;6(4):345-54.

Changes of the internal dependency rate and related childbearing strategies and 
policies for fertility rate at the replacement level.

Li Y.

PIP: In the early 1990s, China had a negative internal growth rate and a 
positive natural growth rate. Calculations were made of the percentage of stable 
population aged under 15 years and over 65 years according to the general 
reproduction rate (GRR) and life expectancy. If GRR stabilized at 1.25, the 
proportion of children and infants would remain stable at 24%. A decline in GRR 
would yield a decline in the infant and child population to 19%. The child 
dependency coefficient was affected by fertility and not mortality. Fertility 
decline would affect the population aged 0-14 years and speed of change of the 
proportion elderly. For example, a change in GRR from 1.75 to 1.5 would yield an 
elderly proportional increase of 2.0%, while a change from 1.25 to 1.0 would 
increase the proportion by 4.1%. GRR declines from 1.75 to 1.5 and then 1.25 
would decrease the internal dependency coefficient. When fertility was near or 
below replacement level, the internal dependency coefficient stopped and then 
increased. When fertility was high above replacement level, the internal 
dependency coefficient was determined mostly by the infant and child internal 
dependency coefficient. At replacement level or below, the elderly internal 
dependency coefficient had the strongest impact. Society would be affected 
differently by shifts in dependency groups from children to the elderly; the 
expenditures would shift from education to health and medical care. Berelson has 
contended that population growth and development were interrelated such that 
fertility decline would yield funds for development, which with increases over 
50 years would offset the increased costs for the elderly population increases. 
This policy was dependent on the speed of change and the balance between loans 
and debts. If fertility decline was accompanied by economic decline, the elderly 
burden would add to the debt. A GRR of 1.0 or a strict 2-child policy would 
produce milder bounce-back effects than a policy of 1 child and a GRR of 0.8. 
The one-child policy would be riskier and have potentially higher economic 
yields. China's economic growth has been rapid and fertility-limiting policy 
would yield a high profit. If economic development led to population growth 
limits, a policy with the lowest internal dependency coefficient and the least 
risk would be appropriate.

PMID: 12319206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Chin J Popul Sci. 1994;6(4):367-85.

Population in Tibet: its past, present, and prospects.

Zhang T.

PIP: Tibet Autonomous Region in China had 12.8% of China's total land area and 
45.6% of all Tibetan population in China in 1990. Other sizeable concentrations 
of Tibetans were in Sichuan Province (23.7%), Qinghai Province (19.9%), Gansu 
(8.0%), and Yunnan (2.4%). Doubling of its 2.0963 million people was expected 
every 37 years at the present rate of growth of 1.88%. The next largest 
population in Tibet were the Han who were mostly located in the city of Lhasa 
and Nyingchi region (over 10% of total population). Population density was low 
at 1.8 per sq. km. Higher densities could be found in Lhasa city (12.7), Qando 
region (4.6), and Shannon region (3.5). 12.7% of population was urban in 1953 
and 11.5% lived in two cities and 30 towns in 1990. The legal age of marriage 
was 20 years for males and 18 years for females. Tibetan women had a very high 
married-to-unmarried ratio for all age groups. This was a result of more women 
than men in Tibet, the unavailability for marriage among resident lamas, and the 
permissibility of multiple marriages for women. The average age at first 
marriage was 23.1 years in 1990. The average household size was 5.31 (94.5% of 
households). Tibetan and other mixed minority households had smaller family 
sizes. 46.2% were two-generation households and 18.5% were three-generation 
households. 7.6% were single-member households. 11.8% of households were 
composed of unrelated persons. In the late 1980s, 3% of persons had 2 or more 
spouses, of whom 88.1% were polyandrous. Fertility fluctuated between 1950 and 
1989, when it was still high at 4.22 children. Infertility was very high and 
ranging from 12.2% to 17.7% for women aged 50-64 years. Infertility for women 
aged 45-49 years was 10.0% and 9.4% for women aged 40-44 years. 45.3% had 1-2 
children, 11.9% had 4 children, and 28.3% had 5 children. Fertility tended to be 
low in cities (1.82) and towns (2.16) and high in rural counties (4.57). Only 
5.8% of women in cities had 4 or more children compared to 42.9% in rural areas. 
By 1990, the death rate had declined to 9.20. Infant mortality had been reduced 
in 1989 to 97.4. In 1990, life expectancy was 58.01 years: 59.62 years for males 
and 63.29 for females. The sex ratio was 97.4, and the sex ratio at birth was 
103.2 in 1990. Illiteracy for persons aged 15 years and older declined to 69.34% 
by 1990 and to 72.39% for females. Illiteracy was lower among younger cohorts.

PMID: 12319208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Genus. 1994 Jul-Dec;50(3-4):13-45.

The status of women and mortality.

Dormor DJ.

PIP: Data was obtained for 113 developed and developing countries on 
socioeconomic variables and status of women indexes in order to examine their 
impact on female mortality rates. The aim was to examine empirically whether 
women's status was an important factor in explaining mortality decline. Women's 
status was measured by female labor force participation, female/male educational 
ratios, percentage of population Muslim, and percentage married at 15-19 years 
old. Mortality measures included the infant mortality rate, child mortality 
rate, life expectancy at birth, and life expectancy at age 5 years. Moseley and 
Chen identified the determinants of child mortality as maternal factors, 
environmental contamination, nutrient deficiency, injury, and personal illness. 
Mason explained women's status effects on mortality decline through their 
mediating the effects of socioeconomic factors, through direct and independent 
effects, through conditioning of other factors affecting mortality, and as 
having no effect on the mortality transition or mortality affecting women's 
position. It is argued that the pre-existing position of women conditions the 
impact of other factors on mortality. This model was explicit in Caldwell's 
studies, but verification would require anthropological methodology and not the 
cross sectional methods of this multivariate regression approach. Mason argued 
that those inequalities in women's role having an impact on mortality include 
kinship structure and family power structures. Caldwell added the role of 
education as guarding against fatalism, as providing the capability of dealing 
with health services, and as changing the balance of power in family 
relationships. The findings were that 71.2% of variation in child death was 
explained by socioeconomic factors and 8.0% by women's status in developed 
countries and 4.7% in developing countries. Socioeconomic and women's status 
variables explained 78.2% (62.6% for socioeconomic factors) of the variance in 
infant mortality in developing countries and 89.9% in developed countries. 
Women's status factors increased explanatory power by 6.4% for life expectancy 
at birth. When fertility was added to the infant mortality model, an additional 
8% of variance was explained. Most of the variance in women's status was 
explained by family structure and female economic activity.

PMID: 12319253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Genus. 1994 Jul-Dec;50(3-4):151-69.

Extension of the preceding birth technique.

Aguirre A.

PIP: The Brass-inspired Preceding Birth Technique (PBT), is an indirect 
estimation technique with low costs of administration. PBT involves asking women 
at a time close to delivery about the survival of the preceding births. The 
proportion dead is close to the probability of dying between the birth and the 
second birthday or an index of early childhood mortality (II or Q). Brass and 
Macrae have determined that II is an estimate of mortality between birth and an 
age lower than the birth interval or around 4/5 of the birth interval. Hospital 
and clinic data are likely to include a concentration of women with lower risks 
of disease because of higher educational levels and socioeconomic status. A 
simulation of PBT data from the World Fertility Survey for Mexico and Peru found 
that the proportions of previously dead children were 0.156 in Peru and 0.092 in 
Mexican home deliveries. Maternity clinic proportions were 0.088 in Peru and 
0.066 in Mexico. Use of clinic and hospital data collection underestimated 
mortality by 32% in Peru and 15% in Mexico. Another alternative was proposed: 
interviewing women at some other time than delivery. If the interview was during 
a child/infant intervention after delivery, the subsample would still be subject 
to a bias, but this problem could be overcome by computing the weighted average 
of the actual probability of the older child being dead and the conditional 
probability of the younger child being dead or both younger and older children 
being dead. Correction factors could be applied using the general standard of 
the logit life table system of Brass. Calculation of a simple average of the 
ages of the younger children could provide enough information to help decide 
which tables to use. Five surveys were selected for testing the factors of 
dependence between probabilities of death of successive siblings: Bangladesh, 
Lesotho, Kenya, Ghana, and Guyana. Higher mortality was related to lower 
dependency factors between the probabilities of death of successive siblings. 
Application of the PBT to Mexican data with corrections proved valuable and 
could be applicable to an immunization campaign or child nutrition program for 
data collection.

PMID: 12319255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Genus. 1994 Jul-Dec;50(3-4):47-63.

Nonsense and unfeasibility of demographically-baseda immigration policies.

Gesano G.

PIP: Some demographically based immigration policies are proposed in order to 
prove their inherent consistency as pertains to difficulties in their 
realization on a real population of the present day Italy. A common population 
projection model is employed by sex, cohort, and 5-year age groups, and parallel 
populations are projected. These are natives, new immigrants, foreign people, 
and following generations. The sex and age compositions of the immigrant 
population are fixed. The base native population is the Italian population on 
January 1, 1991: 57.7 million with another 500,000 undocumented immigrants added 
as the foreign-born population. Life expectancy is assumed as 74.7 years for 
males and 81.4 years for females. The total fertility rate (TFR) of the native 
population was 1.32 in 1990, while that of the foreign-born population was 2.5. 
The demographic goals are achievement of an stationary population and keeping 
the immigrant population at fixed rates. Alternative immigration paths to a 
stationary population include constant immigration flows. A steady annual inflow 
of about 389,000 immigrants would be needed for a stationary population of the 
same size as the 1991 Italian population. This population would increase to a 
maximum of 69.2 million in 2036. Another option is fixed-rate immigration with 
varying inflows from 315,000 to 360,000 in the middle of the 21st century, 
eventually dropping to 300,000. The peak population would be 69 million in 2041. 
Another option is when the immigration flows are regulated as a constant 
percentage of the contemporary number of births in the receiving country. The 
inflow would start from 470,000 a year, going up to 500,000, and eventually 
levelling out at 350,000 for a stationary population. A step-by-step 
zero-population-growth policy would increase immigration to about 450,000 around 
2050, and level out at 389,000 for a stationary population. The real long-term 
alternative lies in increasing the internal reproduction rate up to replacement 
level.

PMID: 12319258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Genus. 1994 Jul-Dec;50(3-4):97-113.

An application of a probabilistic fertility model to estimate some female family 
life cycle stages in Paraguay.

Neupert RF.

PIP: Women's life cycle involves reproduction, labor force, and inactivity. In 
developing countries with inadequate data, mathematical models can be used to 
analyze economic behavior of individuals and families in different stages of the 
life cycle. This study described a model and empirically tested the model on 
data from Paraguay. The model provided estimates of the mean age of women at 
first birth, the mean age of women at last birth, time spent in reproduction, 
and mean life after the birth of the last child for 1950-55, 1980-85, and 
projection to 2020-25. Values were generated from age-specific mortality and 
fertility rates. Simulations were performed with varying mortality and fertility 
schedules. The method was based on techniques developed by Krishnamoorty, who 
based his methods on models proposed by Hoem and Goodman, Keyfitz, and Pullum. 
The method was based on an assumption of a stable population with a fixed age 
pattern of mortality and fertility. An assumption was also that more and less 
fertile women had the same mortality risks, and fertility and mortality at any 
one age was applicable to all ages. The total and net fertility rates and life 
expectancy followed a linear pattern. Application of the method showed that the 
net fertility rate declined by 27% from 6.15 during 1950-55 to 4.49 during 
1980-85, but the time spent in reproduction declined only by 15%, from 15.7 
years to 15.9 years. The cause of fertility decline was not a shortened 
reproductive period, but birth spacing. Projections to 2020-25 showed a decline 
in the reproductive period of 7 years and a net fertility rate of 3.0 children 
per woman. When a simulation of one of the 8 UN models of fertility age 
structure was used to project future fertility, the results showed the 
reproductive period declined from 11.8 years to 9.7 years. When fertility was 
assumed to be 2.3, which was considerably lower than 4.49 during 1980-85, the 
results showed replacement level fertility during 2020-25 and an early age peak 
in fertility over a short reproductive period of 8 years. The simulation may 
represent future urban fertility patterns in Paraguay, which would affect labor 
force participation, which presently is low and stable at 20-23%.

PMID: 12319261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Afr Popul Newsl. 1994 Jan-Jun;(65):6-7.

Activities in connection with the 7th World Population Day.

[No authors listed]

PIP: On the occasion of the 7th World Population Day, the Economic Commission 
for Africa (ECA) issued a press release. The total population of the world was 
estimated at 1 billion by 1830. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th billion marks were reached 
within 30-, 15-, and 12-year interval periods, respectively. On July 11, 1987, 
the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) instituted World Population Day to 
mark the world's population reaching 5 billion. In 1993 the world population was 
estimated at about 5.6 billion. The population of Africa was 0.7 billion, with 
the world's largest percent increases expected to occur in Africa. The 
Kilimanjaro Program of Action (KPA) on population was adopted in 1984, but 
fertility is still high in most member states of the region. There are also 
problems with bringing about desired declines in mortality levels and 
rural-urban migration rates; ensuring effective roles of women in development; 
implementing programs affecting children and youth; providing adequate data and 
information for the development of population policies; and ensuring the 
increased role of nongovernmental organizations in the development of such 
policies. The Dakar/Ngor Declaration on Population, Family and Sustainable 
Development was adopted at the 3rd African Population Conference with 42 
recommendations. Environmental issues and food security were given special 
attention, and population targets were set. These include reducing Africa's 
annual growth rate from 3% in 1994 to 2.5% by the year 2000 and to 2% by the 
year 2010; increasing life expectancy at birth to at least 55 years for the 
region by the year 2010; and increasing contraceptive prevalence to 20% by the 
year 2000 and 40% by the year 2010. ECA intensified its activities to reflect 
the changing needs of member states in population and development research, 
environment, family planning programs, women in development, and AIDS. ECA is 
appealing to its member states to implement the Dakar/Ngor Declaration in their 
national population programs and overall socioeconomic development strategies.

PMID: 12319341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Demografie. 1994;36(4):225-37.

[Population development in the Czech Republic in 1993].

[Article in Czech]

Ruzkova J, Ales M.

The "Czech Republic's demographic development in 1993 was characterized 
particularly by conspicuous abatement of nuptiality, continuance of natality 
decline, marked reduction of induced abortions...,continued decrease of infant 
and neonatal mortality rates and by considerable shrinkage of population 
increase due to migration. [A] steep fall of nuptiality became the most 
pronounced feature of population development in 1993.... The number of children 
born in 1993 in the Czech Republic was the [lowest] since 1918 and the crude 
birth rate...was the lowest...since 1785.... Marked diminution of abortions 
signifies another outstanding phenomenon of population development in the Czech 
Republic. There has [been a]...decline of deaths, [a] decrease of crude death 
rate and [a] medium life span extension." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12319421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1994 Jan;9(1):99-108. doi: 10.1007/BF00972068.

Aging trends: Indonesia.

Adlakha A, Rudolph DJ.

PIP: The authors discuss causes and consequences of aging trends in Indonesia. 
Aspects considered include median age and support ratios; life expectancy; 
marital status and living arrangements; health, mobility, and disability; 
education; and work and income.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00972068
PMID: 12319440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Maandstat Bevolking. 1995 Apr;43(4):19-22.

[Population growth in Western Europe in 1994 continues to decrease].

[Article in Dutch]

Zakee R.

"Fertility in most western [European] countries in 1994 decreased less than it 
did in 1993.... Monthly patterns show few births in most European countries in 
the second quarter of 1993 and in the third quarter of 1994." Information is 
also provided on mortality and life expectancy, natural increase, and migration. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12319633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Popul Today. 1997 Apr;25(4):1-3.

New UN projections depict a variety of demographic futures.

Haub C.

PIP: The UN Population Division current projection of a world population between 
7.7 and 11.2 billion by 2050 is lower than the 1994 projection of 7.9-11.9 
billion. This new projection is based on reduced total fertility rates in many 
regions. It is particularly difficult to make population projections in 
developing countries because demographers must base these projections on 
assumptions about birth and death rates. The UN, therefore, provides four 
projections based on various assumptions: high, medium, low, and constant 
fertility variants. The medium projection is usually labeled "most likely" to 
occur and assumes that fertility will converge at 2.1 children/woman by 2050. 
The low projection assumes that total fertility rate will decline to 1.6, and 
the high one uses a rate of 2.6. Constant fertility assumes that the 1990-95 
fertility level of 3.0 will prevail and will produce a population of 15 billion 
by 2050. Projections for Africa indicate slightly slower growth because of the 
onset of fertility decline and the impact of AIDS, which has reduced life 
expectancy by about 6 years. Asia had a lower overall birth rate than was 
assumed for the period 1990-95 due to a reduction in the crude birth rate of 
India for the period. The projection for Latin America was slightly lower 
because of a decrease in Brazil's total fertility rate. Europe's projected 
population decline in the medium figures reflects the "free-fall" in fertility 
seen in the former Soviet republics and the newly independent states. These new 
UN projections show that it is possible to achieve reductions in population 
growth in developing countries. The assumptions behind these figures should be 
examined carefully, however, before they are used.

PMID: 12319714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Popul Today. 1997 Apr;25(4):7.

Spotlight: Uganda.

Durbin S.

PIP: Uganda is a rural, agricultural society in which agriculture accounts for 
96% of all export income and 57% of gross domestic product. Almost 90% of the 
labor force works in agriculture, mainly in subsistence farming. Partly because 
the government has adopted International Monetary Fund-recommended economic 
reforms, Uganda has experienced an economic growth rate of 6% over the last 9 
years. The rate of inflation dropped to 5% in 1995 from 250% in 1987. However, 
while farmers who grow cash crops or food for market have realized economic 
gains, the most poor Ugandans have seen little improvement in living conditions. 
Living standards have actually most likely deteriorated for subsistence farmers, 
the majority of poor households. Infant mortality is high in Uganda and an 
estimated one in 12 Ugandans are infected with HIV. As a result of the AIDS 
epidemic, the US Census Bureau projects that life expectancy at birth in Uganda 
could decline to 31.5 years by 2010. A condom distribution program seems to have 
had some success in stemming the spread of HIV and a family planning 
communication campaign conducted during 1992-94 successfully taught the 
population about birth control and reproductive health. Ugandan men and women, 
however, stili prefer to have 5.8 and 5.3 children, respectively, and only 15% 
of married women use some form of contraception. One-third of all births are 
unplanned and almost half of the population is younger than age 15 years.

PMID: 12319716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Popul Today. 1995 Oct;23(10):1-2.

India's fertility declines, but it still leads world in population growth.

Visaria L, Visaria P.

PIP: Despite its fertility decline, India still has the world's second largest 
population size. Over the decades fertility declined to 3.6 in 1992 per woman. 
However great or rapid the decline, the population growth rate is an estimated 
1.9% a year. Only three countries in the world have a higher rate of growth: 
Nigeria, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. Fertility decline is attributed to increased 
literacy, urbanization, industrialization, modern communication and 
transportation, and women's status. The availability of government family 
planning services has also contributed to the fertility decline. Although female 
literacy has risen rapidly to 39% in 1991, male literacy is still higher at 64%. 
Girls lag behind in school attendance in both rural and urban areas. Fertility 
decline has occurred faster in urban areas, which are concentrated in cities of 
over 100,000 people. The childbearing period has declined, and childbearing is 
delayed. Contraceptive usage has grown dramatically since 1970 to around 40%, 
depending upon the data source. Population growth is attributed to improvements 
in health and mortality. Life expectancy has increased to 60 years, and infant 
mortality declined to 74 per 1000 live births. The age structure of the 
population is young due to demographic changes. Growth will continue for several 
decades due to population momentum. India is expected to surpass China as the 
most populous country in the world before 2050.

PMID: 12319784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Asia Pac Popul J. 1995 Jun;10(2):3-14.

The human development index: a portrait of the 75 districts in Nepal.

Thapa S.

PIP: A Human Development Index (HDI) is computed for Nepal's 75 districts based 
on minimum and maximum values. Life expectancy and literacy data are based on 
the 1991 census. Real per capita Gross Domestic Product is in purchasing power 
parity (PPP) in US dollars in 1994. Resource access per capita uses data on bank 
deposits and credits in mid-1991. Results show a range in life expectancy from a 
low of 37 years in Mugu district to a high of 74 years in Kathmandu district. 
National literacy averages about 40% of total population. District averages 
range from 21% in Humla district to 71% in Kathmandu. Resource access ranges 
from Rupees 147 in Kalilot district to Rupees 47,000 in Kathmandu district. The 
national average is Rupees 2590 (Rupees 37.2 = 1 US dollar in 1991). 
Correlations between the 3 HDI indicators show a stronger correlation between 
life expectancy and literacy. Each indicator appears to represent some unique 
aspect. District level correlation among the 3 indicators is weaker. The highest 
HDI ranks are in Kathmandu, followed by Lalitpur, which has a substantially 
lower rank. The 5th highest rank is in the industrial city of Biratnagar, and 
the 8th highest rank is in Chitwan. The traditional garments and brassware 
district of Palpa ranks 17th. Modern Gorkha district ranks 32nd. The Mount 
Everest district of Solukhumbu ranks 43rd. Kapilbastu, the birth place of 
Buddha, ranks 56th. Districts north of Kathmandu rank 51st and 54th. Only 5 
districts have a rank of over 5. 14 districts have HDI values ranging between 
0.4 and 0.5. 30 districts have values between 0.3 and 0.4. 15 districts have 
values between 0.2 and 0.3. The worst 11 districts have values under 0.2. The UN 
Development Programme considers a value below 0.5 a low level of human 
development, which means 70 of Nepal districts. Only Kathmandu has a high level. 
Lalitpur, Kaski, Bhaktapur, and Morang have a medium level of human development. 
Correlation of HDI with other development indicators indicates close 
correspondence.

PMID: 12319867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Popul Today. 1996 Feb;24(2):4-5.

China's "missing girls": prospects and policy.

Riley NE.

PIP: Women's conditions in China are viewed as deteriorating. The reduction in 
government control over urban factories and other places of employment has 
resulted in fewer women being hired. This leaves women in positions with low 
wages, poor working conditions, and discrimination based on sex, age, and 
marital status. The shift from rural state-controlled agricultural collectives 
to patriarchal family controls resulted in land distribution that gave men 
preference. The rapid growth in the economy and higher standards of living 
placed women at risk. Although the pressures to kill girl babies have relaxed, 
there is growing interest in making money from abducting and selling women for 
prostitution, marriage, and slavery. Women gained in recent decades greater 
participation in the labor force and higher educational levels. Women's access 
to health care is better. Female life expectancy is 72 years compared to 69 
years for men. Maternal mortality is 95 deaths per 100,000 live births. Yet 
women hold subordinate positions to men in their jobs, and women are segregated 
in the textile and service industries. Women in rural areas have primarily 
access to agricultural jobs, which can be combined with child care. Women are 
less likely to be promoted and are retired 5 years earlier than men. Women carry 
a double burden of domestic labor and paid or unpaid labor. Women still have 
higher illiteracy rates than men, and the gender gap in higher education has 
remained stable since the 1970s. The imbalanced sex ratio is increasing. In some 
provinces it is 114 males for every 100 females, when the normal ratio is 
105-106 males per 100 females. An estimated 12% of females are unaccounted for 
each year. The reasons for the missing children are identified as sex-selective 
abortion, infanticide, or underreporting. The next five-year plan holds the hope 
for improvement in women's status and an end to abuses against women and 
children.

PMID: 12319968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Afr Popul Newsl. 1995 Jul-Dec;(68):2-4.

The quantitative goals of the Dakar / Ngor Declaration and the Cairo Programme 
of Action.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The adoption of quantitative goals with an implementation schedule by the 
Dakar and Cairo conferences is considered by many to be a remarkable improvement 
upon previous population conferences. The scope of the goals is, however, more 
important than their quantitative character. A feasibility assessment of the 
goals based upon the UN Demographic Projections was presented at the Abidjan 
Workshop. It seems that the Dakar/Ngor Declaration and the Cairo Program of 
Action objectives on demographic growth, life expectancy at birth, and child 
mortality may not be achieved, at least within the set time limit. In fact, 
population trends, as projected by the UN indicate that the objective's 
implementation rate in Africa may be slower than expected by the countries which 
met in Dakar and Cairo. The quantitative goals of the Dakar/Ngor Declaration and 
the Cairo Program of Action are discussed.

PMID: 12320154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Afr Popul Newsl. 1995 Jul-Dec;(68):4-5.

The Fourth World Conference on Women.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing during September 4-15, 
1995, was a major success. The platform for action adopted by consensus at the 
conference is comprised of the mission statement, a global framework, critical 
areas of concern, strategic objectives and actions, and institutional and 
financial arrangements. The conference was an extension of other large 
international conferences organized under UN initiative over the past 15 years. 
The Beijing platform of action aims to remove all obstacles to women's active 
participation in all spheres of public and private life through a full and equal 
share in economic, social, cultural, and political decision-making. The 
following concerns were defined by the conference: eradicating poverty, 
increasing school enrollment and eliminating gender inequalities in access to 
education, improving access to health care and eliminating gender inequalities 
in access to services, eliminating violence against women, mitigating the 
consequences of armed conflicts against women, securing equal access of men and 
women to economic resources and employment, providing equal participation of men 
and women in power structures and decision making, enhancing national mechanisms 
to promote the advancement of women, protecting the rights of girls and women, 
eradicating stereotypes about women, participating in the management of natural 
resources and environmental protection, and improving the status of girls.

PMID: 12320155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Geogr Rev (Oxf). 1989 May;2(5):2-6.

Geography and gender.

Bondi L.

PIP: Most people in Britain today work in jobs dominated very markedly by either 
women or men. Sex-typing occurs in many other activities. For example, child 
care and domestic work, whether paid or unpaid, are generally considered to be 
tasks for women. However, with the exception of domestic work and child care, 
the allocation of activities to women or men varies between societies. For 
example, in much of sub-Saharan Africa, women work in fields, growing basic 
subsistence crops for their families, whereas in much of Latin America, women's 
agricultural work is confined to tending animals and food processing. Inequality 
arises because the role of women is generally associated with inferior status, 
socially, politically and/or economically. When mapping the geography of gender, 
an example shows that female life expectancy at birth is highest in the 
developed countries and lowest in the poorest countries of the Third World. 
Regarding the relationship between gender divisions and various aspects of 
spatial organization within societies most attention has focused on differences 
in ethnic group, social class, and stage in the life cycle. In mid-19th century 
Britain large-scale factory production precipitated a spatial separation between 
home and work and created the possibility of separate spheres of life for women 
and men. A particular social form, namely a nuclear family with a dependent 
wife, can operate as a factor contributing to changes in the spatial 
organization of urban areas in the form of suburban growth. After decades of 
outward movement by affluent social groups, a return to small pockets within 
inner-urban areas is now evident. This process is known as gentrification. An 
additional factor of significance in connection with gentrification is the 
increasing success of middle-class women in obtaining well-paid career jobs.

PMID: 12320248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Integration. 1995 Fall;(45):2-3.

Family planning under the Doi Moi policy.

Taniguchi H.

PIP: Vietnam's economy began to grow after the December 1986 implementation of 
Doi Moi policy, with the gross domestic product increasing by more than 5% 
annually since 1990. Per capita GNP has increased to US$220. In 1989, Vietnam 
achieved self-sufficiency in rice production and became the world's third 
largest exporter of rice, the infant mortality rate is 42 per 1000 live births, 
the average life expectancy is 65 years, and 88% of people aged 10 years and 
older are literate. Vietnam's economy is expected to continue to grow. However, 
population growth is a major constraint to Vietnam's projected steady economic 
and social development. The total population grew from 15.5 million in 1921 to 
74 million in 1995. A high unemployment rate and urbanization are already 
issues. Doi Moi policy therefore gives top priority to the Population and Family 
Planning (PFP) Program. The overall objective of the PFP policies is to achieve 
small and healthy families conducive to a happy and prosperous life. 
Specifically, it hopes to realize each family with one or two children so that 
by the year 2015 the average number of children for each family will be only 
two. Policy aims to stabilize Vietnam's population by the year 2050.

PMID: 12320322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Environment. 1995 Jul-Aug;37(6):6-11, 25-34. doi:
10.1080/00139157.1995.9930945.

The future of populous economies. China and India shape their destinies.

Livernash R.

PIP: Population in 1995 was about 1.2 billion in China and about 935 million in 
India. Populations are expected to reach respectively 1.5 billion and 1.4 
billion by 2025. These two countries now and in the future will average about 
35% of total world population. This article compares the current and expected 
demographic, economic, and environmental conditions in China and India. How 
these countries manage their growth, poverty, and population will affect the 
region and the world as well as each nation. China's fertility is now below 
replacement but population momentum will increase population by about 300 
million/year. India's fertility is 3.6 children/woman and India will add 450 
million/year. China's population over 60 years old will reach 20% by 2020, while 
India's will be under 15% in 2025. China will be almost 55% urban by 2025 from 
30% in the 1990s, and India will be 45% urban from 27% urban. China's economic 
growth has averaged over 9%/year compared to India's 5% annual growth during the 
1980s and the economic decline during the 1990s. China has 12% of rural 
population living below the poverty line and India has about 33% of its total 
population impoverished. China's life expectancy is about 10 years higher. 
Under-five mortality is 43/1000 live births in China and 131/1000 in India. 
Poverty-related diseases are still high in India. China is a homogenous 
population with an authoritarian regime. India is a democracy with a large 
nongovernmental community and a heterogenous population. India has about 33% of 
the land area of China but over twice the agricultural land per person. About 
50% of China's land and only 25% of India's land is irrigated. Water resources 
are problems in northern China and much of India. Air and water pollution are 
problems in both countries. Differences in the 
population-environment-development context are discussed in terms of the effects 
of poverty, the constraints posed by development, and the environmental impact 
of rising per capita consumption. It is concluded that India faces the more 
difficult future.

DOI: 10.1080/00139157.1995.9930945
PMID: 12320385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Eur J Popul. 1996 Mar;12(1):27-39. doi: 10.1007/BF01797164.

Potential demography: a second look.

Panush N, Peritz E.

"In the late forties Hersch (1944) and Mentha (1948) introduced, respectively, 
the concepts of 'potential years of life' (PYL) and 'potential years of life 
lost' (PYLL).... Our objectives are: (a) to draw attention to Hersch's concept 
of potential years of life (PYL) and to illustrate its usefulness; (b) to define 
and illustrate three different manners of computing PYLL and to recommend one 
that is simple, intuitively acceptable and reasonably accurate; (c) to propose 
some further indicators that can be derived from PYL, PYLL and the relations 
between them; and (d) to discuss briefly the assumptions underlying the 
calculation of PYL and PYLL, and in particular those assumptions that are made 
in the attribution of loss in potential years of life to specific risk factors." 
(SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01797164
PMID: 12320421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Cah Que Demogr. 1995 Autumn;24(2):245-83.

[Early retirement or prolonged working life? Aspirations of unionized 
professionals aged 50 years and over].

[Article in French]

Guerin G, Wills T, Saba T, St-jacques N.

"Two opposing retirement options--early retirement or prolonged working 
life--are being presented in the burgeoning literature related to the 
ineluctable ageing of the work force. Both are allegedly proposed for economic 
reasons and claim to meet the expectations and needs of ageing workers. But what 
in reality are the retirement goals of older workers and which factors, 
individual and organizational, affect the decision to retire? In tackling this 
question, the article draws on a survey conducted among workers from 15 unions, 
mostly affiliated with the Quebec Council of Managers and Professionals. Based 
on data from 1,319 respondents, the findings indicate that the majority of 
professionals would prefer to retire earlier, that 60 is much more considered a 
normal retirement age than 65, and that only 8% of the respondents wish to 
continue working after 65--and this mostly out of economic necessity, not 
choice. The factors that underlie this preference for early retirement are then 
identified and discussed." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12320569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. China Popul Today. 1996 Aug;13(4):17.

Situation of population aging in China and the strategy.

He C.

PIP: This article describes the trends in population distribution in China and 
the prospects for population aging during 1990-2050. Party General-Secretary and 
President Jiang Zemin is quoted as requesting more public attention to the needs 
of the aged and more services and support for the aged. The current social 
security system is deficient in provisions for the elderly. Further research is 
needed on suitable strategies for service provision. President Jiang Zemin urged 
that more funding be secured for support of the aged and income generation 
programs for young people who had elderly parents to support. He urged that the 
Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of the Elderly be strictly and 
effectively enforced. The author expresses a concern about the timing that will 
be required to prepare for elderly care and support. It is suggested that a plan 
be devised for controlling the extent of population aging. Over the past 20 
years, China went from a high birth rate, high death rate, and high rate of 
natural increase to a low birth rate, low death rate, and low rate of natural 
increase. The result was an increase in the number and proportion of the 
elderly. During 1970-95 the birth rate declined from 33.43/1000 to 17.43/1000. 
The death rate declined from 7.60/1000 to 6.48/1000. The rate of natural 
increase declined from 25.83/1000 to 10.95/1000. Average life expectancy 
increased from 65 to 70 years. The total fertility rate declined in 1995 to 2.0. 
In 1995 there were 110 million elderly aged 60 years and older (9.5% of total 
population). This elderly population is expected to increase to 130 million (10% 
of total population) by the year 2000. The elderly population aged 65 years and 
older is expected to increase from 50 million in 1995 to 92 million in 2000 and 
200 million in 2025.

PMID: 12320581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. China Popul Today. 1997 Feb;14(1):17-8.

Continuing improvement in health quality of China's population.

Gao M.

PIP: This article describes the health of the Chinese population, based on a 
report presented by the Minister of Public Health at a National Conference on 
Health Work. China is considered to have a healthier population than the world 
average. Infant mortality declined from 200/1000 to 31.4/1000 during 1949-95. 
Maternal mortality declined from 1500/100,000 women to 61.9/100,000 women during 
the past 45 years. Life expectancy doubled to 70 years. China has 5.37 million 
medical professionals, 1.22 million country doctors working in 190,000 medical 
institutions, and 56,000 graduates of 126 medical schools. 92,000 graduated from 
551 secondary medical and pharmacy schools. Many infectious and parasitic 
diseases were eliminated during the 1950s and 1960s. Small pox was eliminated in 
1963. Snail fever was reduced considerably and eliminated in 278 out of 391 
counties with a high prevalence of this disease. 85% of township children were 
immunized. Filariasis was eliminated in 1994, and polio was eliminated in 1995. 
Leprosy is very close to extinction. Infectious diseases declined from 
7061/100,000 to 176/100,000 between the 1970s and 1995. Notifiable diseases 
declined to 176.2/100,000 in 1995. Endemic diseases, such as Kaschin-Beck 
disease, Keshan disease, goiter, and diseases due to highly fluorinated water, 
declined. 80% of population had access to iodized salt. Improvements were 
evident in maternal and child health care and treatment of common gynecological 
infections. China has 2957 infant-related hospitals out of 7779 worldwide and is 
making progress in the treatment of gerontological diseases. China's health care 
delivery focuses on prevention and treatment of cerebrovascular and 
cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Each year more attention is paid to 
environmental protection.

PMID: 12320699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. China Popul Today. 1997 Feb;14(1):7-8.

Minister Peng Peiyun stresses improved management and services. Urban family 
planning programme.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article gives a summary of the main points of an address by Minister 
Peng Peiyun of the State Family Planning Commission at the National Conference 
on China's Urban Family Planning Program (December 1996). Minister Peng says 
that China made considerable progress in reducing fertility and increasing life 
expectancy in urban areas. The changes are attributed to the family planning 
(FP) program, urban socioeconomic development, improvements in education and 
medical and health care services, a sound social security system, effective IEC, 
and the contraceptive service network. Minister Peng characterizes the urban FP 
program as having a long-term, stable policy for promoting one child per couple. 
Units at all levels are required to practice family planning. Urban FP programs 
have effective IEC, a contraceptive service system, and scientific management 
within a community service system. The FP program targets the floating 
population of migrants. Urban populations pose may challenges that the FP 
