program has partially met. The aim is population development balanced with 
socioeconomic development and sustainable development. There is a need to 
increase public awareness of public services. The FP program recognizes the need 
to implement the "two transitions" in urban areas: to shift to a policy of FP 
integrated with socioeconomic development and to shift to an interest-oriented 
program integrated with social constraints. The aim is to improve the quality of 
life for the urban population and to sustain low fertility levels. FP programs 
are still weak in dealing with the floating population, unplanned and unintended 
pregnancies, abortions, and maternal health. IEC should be strengthened and 
include topics on women's rights, reproductive health, sex education, 
environmental protection, and sustainable development.

PMID: 12320704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Genus. 1996 Jul-Dec;52(3-4):107-34.

Trends and sex-differentials in Dutch mortality since 1850: insights from a 
cohort--and period--perspective.

Van Poppel F, Tabeau E, Willekens F.

"This paper makes use of a recently established comparative series of period and 
cohort life tables for the Netherlands for the period 1850-1991. Trends in 
period and cohort life expectancy at birth for males and females are discussed. 
A simple spline function is used to identify turning points in these trends. 
Trends in the contribution of specific age groups to the changes in life 
expectancy and to male excess mortality were studied using the Arriaga method. 
For this purpose, the results of period and cohort analysis were compared." 
(SUMMARY IN ITA AND FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12320814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. AIDS Wkly Plus. 1997 May 12:16-7.

Healthcare situation dismal, says government official. International (Ethiopia).

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to Dr. Kebede Tadesse, Minister of Social and Administrative 
Affairs, as stated in a speech before the Consultative Group Meeting in Addis 
Ababa in December 1996, the health status of Ethiopia is one of the worst in the 
world because of "backward socio-economic development, poor environmental 
quality, high fertility rate, repeated natural and man-made disasters, and 
inadequate health services." An article in the April 11, 1997, Addis Tribune 
supports this claim by describing the horrific conditions found in a public 
hospital in Addis Ababa. Patients returned home to die because of the shortage 
of beds. Dr. Kebede gave the following statistics: the average daily per capita 
food intake is 1750 calories, 80% of that recommended; 5% of children show signs 
of wasting; 64% of children have stunted growth; 17% of pregnant and lactating 
women are anemic; the average national fertility rate is 6.1%; the percentage of 
AIDS cases per 100,000 people is 10.7; 18% of people have access to potable 
water; 14% of births are attended; 16% of people receive antenatal care; 40% of 
the population is immunized; 8% of the population receives family planning 
services; the infant mortality rate is 130/1000 live births; the maternal 
mortality rate is 500-700/100,000 live births; there is 1 physician per 33,333 
Ethiopians; and the life expectancy at birth is 48 years. The article 
recommended the following "basic principles and guidelines" to improve the 
situation: 1) the population should be educated about good hygiene; 2) family 
planning should be popularized by the government; 3) the health budget should be 
increased to meet overall demand for health services and to target diseases such 
as malaria and tuberculosis; 4) private investment in health care is needed; 5) 
a safe drinking water supply must be made available; and 6) domestic conditions 
should be made favorable so that Ethiopian doctors educated abroad will return 
to practice in Ethiopia.

PMID: 12320872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Pol Popul Rev. 1996;(9):7-32.

Family and fertility careers of Polish females: a semi-parametric and life table 
approach.

Fratczak E.

"In this paper an evaluation has been made using the semi-parametric analysis 
and life table method of changes in the process of formation and dissolution of 
families in Poland, and changes in fertility careers by cohorts. An answer was 
sought to the following questions: What are the factors significantly 
determining the process studied? What differences appear between cohorts?"

excerpt

PMID: 12320913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Popul Today. 1997 Jun;25(6):7.

Spotlight: Nepal.

Rauniyar DS.

PIP: As of mid-1997, 22.6 million people lived on the 52,820 sq. miles which 
comprise Nepal. A constitutional monarchy with a multiparty system has governed 
Nepal since 1991, and with a per capita annual income of US$200, Nepal remains 
one of the poorest countries in the world. Even though Nepal had the region's 
highest average annual urban growth rate during the 1980s, it remains largely 
rural, with only 10% of the population living in urban areas. The agricultural 
sector employs 82% of the working population and generates 43% of gross domestic 
product. There were 35 births and 12 deaths per 1000 population, resulting in a 
2.3% annual rate of natural increase. The crude death rate declined from 30/1000 
in 1954 to 15/1000 in 1988, while infant mortality rates fell from 98/1000 live 
births in 1991 to 79/1000 in 1996. The under-five mortality rate is 118/1000 
births, only 24% of newborns receive prenatal care, and the maternal mortality 
rate is 515/100,000 live births. The 1996 level of total fertility was 4.6 
births/woman, down from 5.1 in 1991, while life expectancy was 53 and 54 years 
for men and women, respectively. Declining fertility in Nepal is associated with 
increases in female literacy rates and contraceptive use. 42% of Nepal's 
population is under age 15 years. Knowledge of family planning methods is almost 
universal and contraceptive use has almost doubled over the past decade to 29% 
of married women. Female sterilization, male sterilization, and injectables are 
the most popular methods of contraception.

PMID: 12320945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Third World Q. 1996 Dec;17(5):941-57. doi: 10.1080/01436599615191.

The "Kerala model" of development: development and sustainability in the Third 
World.

Parayil G.

PIP: The Indian state of Kerala with a population of 29 million has made the 
transition to a society with low infant mortality rate, low population growth, 
and a low crude death rate in less than 30 years. The average life expectancy 
for women is 74 years (vs. 60 years for India as a whole) and 71 years for men 
(vs. 59 years for India), the infant mortality rate is 16.5/1000 live births 
(vs. 91/1000 for India), and literacy is almost universal. The population growth 
rate fell from 44/1000 in the 1950s to 18/1000 in 1991. By 1985 the population 
growth rate had stabilized to a demographic replacement level net reproduction 
rate. Kerala's female/male ratio is 1.04:1 as opposed to the Indian average of 
0.93:1 and China's 0.94:1. All this was achieved without coercion by 
democratically elected state governments. In the late 1970s Kerala ranked number 
one in 15 out of 21 Indian states with respect to selected infrastructural and 
basic services. This development came about despite a low per capita income. In 
1991-92 the state of Punjab, with more than twice the per capita income of 
Kerala, had 33 PQLI (Physical Quality of Life Index) points less than Kerala. In 
addition, the HDI (Human Development Index) of Kerala was more than twice the 
national average. The HDI was 0.925 for the US in 1994 vs. 0.775 for Kerala, 
where the per capita income was one-hundredth of the US per capita income. This 
progress was accomplished by the elimination of absentee landlords and the 
return of the land to the tiller; and large amounts of funds spent on education, 
health care, infrastructure, agricultural credits, and housing. Staples were 
made available to the poor at subsidized prices. The Kerala model may be taken 
as an early prototype of sustainable development because of improvements in the 
quality of life, environmental stability, social and economic equality, and the 
decline in political strife.

DOI: 10.1080/01436599615191
PMID: 12321040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. People Planet. 1997;6(3):6-9.

Healthy world, healthy people.

Mcmichael T.

PIP: This article discusses the challenges to human health from environmental 
degradation. The environment includes the social environment as well as the 
physical and chemical environment. Housing quality, recreation, population 
growth, density and mobility, social networks, and political and distributive 
equity also impact on health. There are well known examples of man-made 
disasters, such as in Bhopal, Chernobyl, and the Love Canal. What are less 
understood are the general conditions of poor health, low life expectancy, and 
early death due to polluted air, contaminated drinking water, and pesticide and 
other chemical contamination. An estimated 66% of diarrhea episodes are 
attributed to contaminated food or water. Health and vital statistics do not 
measure public health problems, such as declines in intelligence from lead 
ingestion from auto emissions. Epidemiological tracking of cause and effect of 
environmental contaminants is elusive. Some key features of environmental impact 
are the threshold effect, indirect pathways, and long-term and systems effects. 
Environmental hazards may deplete or disrupt natural biophysical processes that 
are the basic source of sustained good health. These basic systems include the 
food production system, the vector borne disease routes, global hydrological 
cycles, and the stratosphere. Gains in life expectancy have been due to declines 
in infectious disease mortality in early life, food security, improved hygiene 
and water sanitation, vaccination, and antibiotics and other medical treatments. 
Rapid technological change, acquisitive consumerism, ignorance of distant and 
deferred environmental impacts, and a free market ethic limit social advancement 
and ignore public health and environmental stresses. The scale of today's 
environmental problems requires priority setting and socially and ecologically 
sustainable ways of living.

PMID: 12321048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Demogr Inf. 1995:93-106, 163.

[The demographic situation in Austria in 1995].

[Article in German]

Findl P.

PIP: "This article presents an overview of the recent demographic situation in 
Austria on the basis of the final results of vital statistics and estimates of 
net migration and population figures based on the 1991 census results.... The 
main results of the latest developments are: a decrease in births and fertility 
as a consequence of a strong decline in births of nationals, which was just 
partly compensated by a weaker rise in foreign births; a further increase in the 
proportion of extramarital births (to 27.4%); a further increase in life 
expectancy at birth as a consequence of reduced mortality at all ages, including 
a remarkable decline of infant mortality; reduced net immigration to the level 
of the first half of the eighties (1995: +7,500); a population growth to more 
than 8 million inhabitants (1995: 8.05)." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Math Popul Stud. 1997;6(4):319-30, 335. doi: 10.1080/08898489709525440.

Mixed estimation of old-age mortality.

Alho JM, Nyblom J.

PIP: "Section 2 will first extend the method of mixed estimation to maximum 
likelihood estimation in general. Then, we will review generalized linear models 
with logistic and Poisson regressions as examples. In Section 3 we discuss 
different approaches for formulating the auxiliary information in practice. 
Section 4 first reviews the method of Coale and Kisker, provides empirical 
estimates for it, and then proceeds with the mixed estimation variant. In 
Section 5 we apply the methods to the estimation of mortality at ages 80+ in 
Finland in 1980-1993. We will first consider the evidence for mortality 
crossover between males and females.... Then we will estimate life expectancies 
at age 100." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1080/08898489709525440
PMID: 12321151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1996;14(2):173-200.

[The epidemiologic transition in rural Catalonia: Sant Pere de Ruidebitlles, 
1880-1935].

[Article in Spanish]

Torrents A.

PIP: "This article examines the mortality fall in rural Catalonia [Spain] during 
the epidemiologic transition. The discussion focuses on an analysis of all 
causes of death in Sant Pere de Riudebitlles Register Office, from 1880 to 1935, 
the eve of the Civil War.... The main causes of death [were] epidemic and 
gastro-enteric diseases for children under five until the first decades of the 
twentieth century; from then on, the main causes of death [were] degenerative 
diseases affecting people over fifty years of age, and in turn, life expectancy 
increased." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Popul Today. 1997 Nov;25(11):7.

Spotlight: Mauritius.

Lutz W.

PIP: Mauritius is an island nation of 780 sq. miles, with land area just 10 
times the size of Washington, DC. Following malaria eradication in the late 
1940s, Mauritius experienced one of the world's highest population growth rates. 
In 1957, the Mauritius Family Planning Association was founded and, in 1962, the 
Roman Catholic Church began promoting natural family planning. Between 1963 and 
1972, the total fertility rate in the country fell from 6.2 children/woman to 
3.2. The population's understanding that land space is limited appears to have 
contributed to the rapid fertility decline. Economic growth followed the rapid 
fertility decline, with the well-educated female population providing the labor 
for the country's textile factories and per capita income rising to $3380. 
Mauritius' population as of mid-1997 was 1.1 million, or 1450 people per square 
mile. Birth and death rates are 18 and 7 per 1000 population, respectively, 
there are 19.7 infant deaths per 1000 live births, the population is growing 
through natural increase at the annual rate of 1.2%, the total fertility rate is 
2.1 births/woman, and the male and female life expectancies are 66 and 74 years, 
respectively. About half of all married women use modern contraception.

PMID: 12321258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Cah Que Demogr. 1996 Autumn;25(2):179-210.

[Health expectancy indicators for the measurement of population health status].

[Article in French]

Robine J-m.

PIP: "This overview reviews the indicators currently used to describe the health 
status of populations. It emphasizes Quebec's contributions in helping to 
develop such indicators, including the development of health expectancy 
indicators; various theories on changes in population health status and 
longevity; Quebec's role in the international harmonization of health expectancy 
indicators; and the initial findings emerging from the compilation of health 
expectancy time series. An appendix offers a brief survey of texts on 
demographic indicators, an area in which Quebec has come to specialize." 
(EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Cah Que Demogr. 1996 Autumn;25(2):241-59.

[Life expectancy and health expectancy by sex, marital status, and socioeconomic 
status in Canada].

[Article in French]

Nault F, Roberge R, Berthelot J-m.

PIP: "This article presents total life expectancy and health expectancy at age 
30 [in Canada] by sex, marital status, and two variables used to define 
socioeconomic status: level of education and household income. The article shows 
that: (1) there is a relatively important difference in life expectancy 
according to marital status, level of education and income; (2) this difference 
is always greater for men than women; (3) adjusting for health further 
accentuates this difference, and more so for women than men; and (4) the 
differences between men and women in mortality and health generally decrease as 
socioeconomic status increases." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Anthropotes. 1996 Jun;12(1):119-32.

[Socio-demographic aspects of the family around the world].

[Article in French]

Dumont GF.

PIP: Trends affecting the family around the world are reviewed. The author 
examines such issues as changing attitudes toward marriage, the decline in 
marriage rates and its consequences, changes in age at marriage, increases in 
life expectancy, divorce, and household size. He also discusses geographical 
differences in family patterns as well as features that are common to families 
everywhere.

PMID: 12321301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Popul Headl. 1997 Nov-Dec;(261):5.

Call to reverse decline in ODA.

[No authors listed]

PIP: In November 1997, the UN Secretary-General noted that population assistance 
was a development success story that has resulted in increased life expectancy, 
child survival, and use of family planning as well as decreased maternal 
mortality, family size, and population growth. Despite this success, development 
activities are at a critical juncture because official development assistance 
has dropped to its lowest level. The financial target agreed upon at the 1994 
International Conference on Population and Development called for $5.7 billion 
from donors, yet donors are committing only a small percentage of official 
development assistance to population programs. The income of the UN Population 
Fund will drop 8-10% for 1997 with the result that critical demands for 
reproductive health care will not be met. Because this will have critical 
consequences beyond the population field, the Secretary-General appealed to all 
nations to contribute to the highest level possible. In response to this 
statement, a Japanese newspaper asked why the Japanese government had cut 
donations by as much as 40% and urged the government to reconsider its 
reductions in donations to the UN.

PMID: 12321309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Demografie. 1997;39(3):157-72.

[Development of population in the Czech Republic in 1996 (from the processing of 
results by the Czech Statistical Office)].

[Article in Czech]

Kucera M, Simek M.

PIP: The authors review population trends in the Czech Republic as of 1996. 
Information is provided on population growth, age distribution, nuptiality and 
divorce, fertility, illegitimacy, age-specific birth rate, marriage and birth 
postponement, induced abortion, life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
migration. (ANNOTATION)

PMID: 12321322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Schweiz Z Volkswirtsch Stat. 1997;133(4):741-54.

[A dynamic approach to the study of differences in life expectancy by sex in 
Switzerland from 1910-1911 to 1988-1993. An application of the decomposition 
methods developed by Pollard and d'Arriaga].

[Article in French]

Fei P, Wanner P, Cotter S.

PIP: Reasons for the differences in life expectancy by sex in Switzerland, which 
have increased over the course of the twentieth century, are examined. "The 
purpose of this study is to estimate, on the basis of two demographic methods, 
which ages contributed to the differences in life expectancy by gender during 
the course of the century. While infant mortality explained the majority of 
these differences between the genders in 1910/11, this is no longer the case 
nowadays. Excess male mortality among members of the working-age population, and 
especially in the older age groups, explains both the differences in average 
longevity between the sexes and how these differences develop. Seen from another 
angle, the causes of death which contribute most to these gender disparities, 
ranked in order of importance, are cancers, violent deaths and ischaemic cardiac 
disorders." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nufusbil Derg. 1997;19:57-72.

Turkey's population at the beginning of the 21st century.

Unalan T.

PIP: This article describes the population structure in Turkey over the past 70 
years and presents population projections for the period 1990-2025. Demographic 
patterns and economic development vary widely within Turkey. Population 
increased from 13 million to about 60 million during 1923-95. The annual 
population growth rate was 2.2%. Turkey is one of the 20 most populous countries 
of the world. The government of Turkey maintained a pronatalist policy until the 
mid-1960s. The Population Planning Law of 1965 allowed limited imports of 
contraceptives. In 1983 the law was revised and liberalized to allow abortion up 
to the 10th gestation week and voluntary surgical sterilization. Past high 
fertility and growth rates are evident in the young population age structure. In 
the early 1990s the crude birth rate was about 25/1000. Contraceptive prevalence 
in 1993 was 63% of total married women in reproductive ages, but only 34.5% 
relied on effective methods. Withdrawal was the most popular method. Over 66% of 
women in 1993 reported a desire to stop childbearing, and 14% desired a delay in 
childbearing. Ideal family size was 2.4 children. The total fertility rate in 
1993 was 2.7 children compared to 3.4 in 1988. Infant mortality declined to 
53/1000 in the early 1990s. Maternal mortality was 132/1000 live births. Life 
expectancy was 63 years for males and 68 years for females. 51.4% of the 
population was urban in 1993. Net in-migration is expected until 2010. 
Population, under the medium variant, is expected to reach 66 million in 2000 
and 87 million in 2025. Under the low variant and a fertility rate decline to 
1.58 by 2025, population would reach about 84 million by 2025. Although Turkey 
remains different from European Union (EU) countries in socioeconomic and 
demographic profiles, Turkey is a middle-income country and offers the EU an 
important human resource.

PMID: 12321338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Indian J Gend Stud. 1997 Jul-Dec;4(2):231-52. doi:
10.1177/097152159700400205.

Women and work in Kerala: a comparison of the 1981 and 1991 censuses.

Gulati L, Rajan SI, Ramalingam A.

PIP: This study examines census data on women's work status during 1981 and 1991 
in Kerala state in India. During 1981 and 1991, Kerala had a stable female work 
participation rate (FWPR), which placed Kerala 19th out of 30 states and Union 
territories. However, Kerala's FWPR declined in size and in the ratio to the 
male work participation rate during 1951-81. The work participation rate in 
Kerala was 15.85 for women and 47.58 for men in 1991 and 16.61 for women and 
44.89 for men in 1981, which was under the national average. Fertility declined 
from 3.7 during 1970-75 to 1.7 in 1992. Life expectancy at birth was 74.7 years 
for women and 68.8 years for men, which is higher than the national average. The 
proportion of persons aged 15-59 years increased. Several explanations are 
offered to explain the low FWPR. Women increased in the number of enrollments in 
higher education. The increase for women was 50% compared to only 24% for men. 
The number of unemployed women aged 15-34 years rose during 1961-81. A 1987-88 
unemployment survey revealed that over 10% of the unemployed in India lived in 
Kerala state, which had only 3.4% of total Indian population. A 1987 migration 
survey indicated that 300,929 workers from Kerala migrated to the Middle East, 
of which 92.5% were men. 31.43% of Kerala's population in 1991 were workers. The 
increase in the proportion of workers during 1981-91 was due primarily to the 
increase in male workers. The number of main workers increased over the decade 
for men and women, although only marginally for women. Marginal workers declined 
for both genders. Work participation rates of main and marginal workers 
increased for men and declined for women. Urban employment for women increased. 
Two districts had very low FWPRs. 48.78% of the female work force worked as 
cultivators and agricultural laborers. Growth occurred in urban and tertiary 
activities.

DOI: 10.1177/097152159700400205
PMID: 12321347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Inf Geogr. 1997 Jun;61(3):114-21.

[The demographic regions of Europe: a classification at the end of the 1980s].

[Article in French]

Decroly JM.

PIP: The author presents a series of maps showing demographic indicators for 
sub-national regions of the countries of Europe. The indicators are: average 
annual rate of population growth, 1980-1988; average number of children per 
family, 1988; male life expectancy, 1980; and population density, 1980.

PMID: 12321394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Vopros Stat. 1997;(11):81-6.

[A statistical analysis of cardiovascular mortality in Russia and in the Moscow 
region (1990-1996)].

[Article in Russian]

Kharchenko V, Akopyan A, Mishiev V, Ioffina O.

PIP: Trends in mortality from cardiovascular diseases in Russia are analyzed for 
the period 1990-1996. A separate analysis is presented for the Moscow region. 
Information is also included on other causes of death such as accidents, cancer, 
and pulmonary effects. Differences in life expectancy by sex are also 
considered. Some comparisons are made to other developed countries.

PMID: 12321423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Cah Econ Brux. 1995;(147):267-94.

[Public pensions and demographic aging in a small open economy].

[Article in French]

Compagnie P.

PIP: Using the example of Belgium, the impact of the two main causes of 
demographic aging--fertility decline and increase in life expectancy--on the 
financing of pensions and on the economic behavior of individuals is analyzed. 
The results show that the economic behavior of individuals is influenced to a 
far greater degree by increases in life expectancy than by declines in 
fertility. In the long term, the author suggests that it makes more sense to 
develop a system in which the retired rather than the economically active bear 
the additional financial costs of aging.

PMID: 12321431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. China Popul Today. 1997 Dec;14(6):11-2.

The trend of aging in China.

Zhang G.

PIP: This article presents high, medium, and low variants of projections for 
China's population aged 0-14 years, 15-59 years, over 60 years, over 65 years, 
and over 80 years. Projections are based on data from the 1990 Census and the 
1995 1% sample survey. China's population is expected to reach 1.281 billion in 
2000, and 1.666 billion in 2050, under the high variant; 1.271 billion in 2000, 
and 1.535 billion in 2040, under the medium variant; and 1.261 billion in 2000, 
1.442 billion in 2030, and declining to 1.346 billion by 2050, under the low 
variant. Decreases will not occur under the medium variant until 2050, to 1.507 
billion. The total fertility rate is expected to decline from 2.3 in 2000, to 
2.0 before 2050, under the high variant; from 2.0 in 2000, to 1.8 before 2050, 
under the medium variant; and 1.8 in 2000, to 1.6 before 2050, under the low 
variant. By 2050, the average life expectancy is expected to increase to 75 
years for males and 79 years for females. The death rate will decline from 7% at 
present to 6.8% in 2000, and then increase to 14% by 2050. The total dependency 
ratio will decrease from 56.92% in 2000, to 53.53% in 2010, and then increase to 
72.46% in 2050, under the high variant. The child dependency ratio will decline 
from 41.13% in 2000, to 32.19% in 2050. The aged dependency ratio will rise from 
15.79% in 2000, to 40.27% in 2050. The aged-child ratio will increase from 
38.39% in 2000, to 125.08% in 2050.

PMID: 12321433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Eur J Popul. 1997;13(3):223-41. doi: 10.1023/a:1005844818027.

Survival trees: an alternative non-parametric multivariate technique for life 
history analysis.

De Rose A, Pallara A.

PIP: "In this paper an extension of tree-structured methodology to cover 
censored survival analysis is discussed.... The tree-shaped diagram...can be 
used to draw meaningful patterns of behaviour throughout the individual life 
history.... The fundamentals of tree methodology are outlined; [then] an 
application of the technique to real data from a survey on the progression to 
marriage among adult women in Italy is illustrated; [and] some comments are 
presented on the main advantages and problems related to tree-structured 
methodology for censored survival analysis." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005844818027
PMID: 12321461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Vopros Stat. 1998;(2):67-72.

[Demographic developments in the Republic of Belarus].

[Article in Russian]

Shakhot'ko L.

PIP: Recent demographic trends in Belarus are described and compared with trends 
in other countries that were once part of the USSR. The author notes that the 
total number of deaths exceeded the total number of births for the first time in 
1993, and that the gap between the two has continued to increase so that by 
1996, there were 37,000 more deaths than births recorded. Urban areas have been 
more affected by population decreases than rural areas. The main cause of low 
fertility is identified as the harsh socioeconomic conditions: the author points 
out that even in childless two-income families, couples have difficulty in 
making ends meet. The changes in age and sex distribution that have occurred 
over time are analyzed, as well as changes in health status, life expectancy, 
and mortality.

PMID: 12321465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Math Popul Stud. 1998;7(1):29-49, 109. doi: 10.1080/08898489809525445.

Coping with multiple morbidity in a life table.

Barendregt JJ, Van Oortmarssen GJ, Van Hout BA, Van Den Bosch JM, Bonneux L.

PIP: "We present the proportional multi-state life table method, that makes the 
inclusion of multiple diseases better manageable and allows for comorbidity 
implicitly, without the need to define additional states. We implement the 
method for heart disease and stroke [among Dutch males in 1988], and look at the 
effect of hypothetical but not unrealistic changes in incidence and survival on 
disease prevalence and comorbidity. Finally we discuss limitations and 
extensions of the method." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1080/08898489809525445
PMID: 12321476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Braz J Popul Stud. 1997;1:41-57.

Brazil: model life tables and stable population.

Frias LA, Rodriguez P.

"In the 1974 Meeting of the Brazilian Association for Population Studies, Frias 
and Leite presented a set of model life tables that were meant to reflect the 
sex-age structure of Brazilian mortality. A later examination of this study 
revealed the need for revision and further development in order to improve this 
valid piece of work." The present article reviews and complements the earlier 
study.

excerpt

PMID: 12321512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. China Popul Today. 1997 Aug;14(3-4):11-2.

Physical quality of Tibetan population.

Zhang T.

PIP: This article presents a profile of the Tibetan Autonomous Region, focusing 
on the physical development of Tibetan primary and middle school students, the 
composition of the disabled, the mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, infant 
mortality rate, and average life expectancy. Data were obtained from death 
registration records, population surveys, and a 1987 National Sampling Survey of 
Disabled Population. During 1965-82, the data reveal considerable improvement in 
height, weight, chest measurements, and sitting heights among male and female 
students. Height increased by 7.81% for boys and 6.47% for girls. Weight 
increased by 16.56% for boys and 11.02% for girls. Average heights and weights 
for Tibetans, aged under 17 years living in Lhasa City, were lower than for 
their counterparts in Beijing. Tibetans had larger chest measurements due to 
their adjustment to a plateau environment. 30.71% of Tibetan families had 
disabled members. This figure was the highest among all Chinese provinces and 
autonomous regions, and was 12.60% higher than the national average. 45.19% of 
the disabled in Tibet, and 14.62% of the disabled in China, had impaired limbs. 
5.97% of population in Tibet, and 19.70% in China, were mentally disabled. Total 
mortality declined from 9.85/1000 to 7.40 during 1971-91. Mortality declined 
continuously, with the exception of 1985, when mortality was 10.12/1000. The 
infant mortality rate declined from 430/1000 in 1951, to 155.15 in 1981, and 
97.40 in 1989. Infant mortality was twice the national average in 1989, and was 
particularly high in rural areas. The maternal mortality rate declined from 
500/1000 to 57/1000 during 1951-94, compared to the national average in 1989 of 
5.8. Life expectancy was 59.61 years for males and 61.52 for females, and even 
higher in the city, but lower among Tibetans in other provinces. Infant 
mortality and life expectancy are identified with high altitude, population 
density, medical workers, illiteracy, and urban population.

PMID: 12321518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Popul Today. 1998 Mar;26(3):7.

Spotlight: Costa Rica.

[No authors listed]

PIP: 3.5 million people lived in Costa Rica as of mid-1997. There were 24 births 
and 4 deaths per 1000 population, respectively, contributing to the annual 
natural increase rate of 2.0%. Each woman in Costa Rica bears an average of 2.8 
children during her reproductive lifespan and men and women were expected to 
live for 73 and 78 years, respectively. Costa Rica's low infant mortality rate 
and high literacy and life expectancy rates set it apart from the rest of 
Central America. Costa Rica is also the only country in the region which 
maintains no standing army. About 96% of the population is White or Mestizo, 3% 
is Black, and 1% is indigenous Indian. More than half of the country lives in 
San Jose and its metropolitan area, 6% of the country's total land area. 
Unemployment has run near 5% over the past 2 years, but much of the labor force 
is underemployed. Costa Rica's economy depends upon tourism and agricultural 
exports such as coffee, beef, and bananas. A large Intel factory opened in 1997. 
The government and Costa Rican environmentalists are planning a joint campaign 
to reconvert 80% of Costa Rica's pasture back to forest and tree crops. About 
20% of the government's budget is spent upon education and the 93% literacy rate 
is the highest in the region. Government health services provide low-cost 
contraceptives to more than 75% of users and 75% of women use some form of 
family planning.

PMID: 12321532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Geogr Rundsch. 1997 May;49(5):279-86.

[Demography and ethnography of Tibet].

[Article in German]

Gruschke A.

PIP: In 1950, the Chinese army occupied Tibet, putting an end to the de facto 
independence of lamaic theocracy from 1914. In 1990, the population numbered 
6.16 million in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), of which 4.6 million were 
ethnic Tibetans, 1.34 million were Han Chinese, and 0.62 million made up other 
ethnic groups. These other ethnic groups include Mongols and various Turkic 
peoples as a result of centuries of migration. It is noteworthy that the sex 
ratio is 92-98 men per 100 women for Tibetans vs. 105-110 men per 100 women 
among other ethnic groups and 106.3 men per 100 women in China. In the past 4 
decades the population has been growing at the rate of 1.7%. The average age at 
first birth for women is 24 years, and they continue to bear children up to the 
age of 55. In 1990, the age of marriage was 21 years vs. 24-25 years during 
earlier times. The proportion of unmarried women over age 25 is 20-35% vs. 1-2% 
among comparable ethnic areas of China. In 1981, the proportion of childless 
Tibetan women was 12-20% vs. only 2-5% among other ethnic groups. This was 
attributed to the large number of celibate monks up to 1959. In 1990, the birth 
rate among Tibetan women was 121.5/1000, which was 50% higher than the average 
rate in China. The child mortality rate decreased from 11.9% in 1981 to 8.6-8.9% 
by 1990, and the life expectancy of Tibetans increased to 62 years. A 1992 study 
indicated that, although the average age of the population was 21.7 years in 
1990, a transition period from a youth-type to an adult-type population 
composition had begun. 45% of the population over 15 years of age is semi- or 
fully illiterate.

PMID: 12321552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Popul Today. 1998 May;26(5):1-2.

Record number of youth approaching childbearing years.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article describes future population growth and fertility trends based 
on the 1998 "World Population Data Sheet" of the Population Reference Bureau. 
The 1998 report emphasizes that population growth reflects the number of women 
in their childbearing years. Questions about future population growth depend 
upon how many children today's youth will have when they enter their 
childbearing years. This critical cohort amounts to over 2 billion young persons 
aged under 20 years in developing countries, where 98% of population growth 
occurs. Every year 1% of women aged 15-19 years gave birth in Western Europe, 
compared to 18% in Middle Africa, and 5% in Southeast Asia. Future population 
growth appears to reflect high fertility in poor countries and low fertility in 
rich countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, births average 3 times replacement level 
fertility, which is 2 children/couple. Even if the total fertility rate declines 
in Africa, the proportion of women reaching their childbearing years (aged under 
20 years) will amount to 52% of the total population and thus yield high 
fertility in the short term. At present, there are 4 times as many people in 
developing countries as developed ones. Demographers expect 3.5 billion 
additional people to be born during 2000-2050. Future individual decisions on 
fertility will depend upon unpredictable factors, such as family planning, life 
expectancy, and economic circumstances. Life expectancy in Russia is increasing 
for both sexes. The gender gap in life expectancy of 12 years is the largest in 
the world. Men live to 61 years and die from circulatory diseases and accidents.

PMID: 12321553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1998 May;(22):25-30.

[Measurement of social development in China using the literate life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Huang R, Nanjo Z.

PIP: The authors examine whether the concept of " literate life expectancy" 
developed by Lutz and others can be used as a measure of social development in 
China.

PMID: 12321693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1998 May;(22):9-23.

[Evaluation and application of the Ewbank model].

[Article in Japanese]

Otsuka T.

PIP: "The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the four-parameter logit model 
developed by Ewbank and others, to ascertain the validity and the applicability 
of this model, and finally to look for a more rational way of estimating the 
four parameters." The focus is on the application of such models to the analysis 
of mortality data. The Ewbank model is applied to Japanese life tables. "As a 
result of the analysis, I found that the Ewbank model captures the mortality 
pattern of the Japanese, and that the four parameters of the model can be 
effectively estimated by using Simplex method and Marquardt method. As to the 
applicability of the Ewbank model, it might be possible to estimate the life 
table at any point of time from the past to the future by changing the values of 
the parameters of this model. I ascertained this by altering parameter a. As a 
result, the feasibility of this model is found to be quite high." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12321695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Asia Pac Popul J. 1998 Sep;13(3):41-66.

Long-term implications of low fertility in Kerala, India.

Rajan SI, Zachariah KC.

PIP: This study reviewed patterns of low fertility in Kerala state, India, and 
the implications for employment, the elderly, the marriage squeeze, and 
education. The total fertility rate (TFR) in Kerala declined from 5.6 to 1.7 
children/woman during 1951-93. In 1993, infant mortality was 13/1000 live 
births. The demographic transition was enhanced by high population density and 
state policies and programs. Economic conditions are poor. Unemployment in 
1997-98 was 10% of total Indian unemployment, despite Kerala's having only 3.4% 
of total population. Unemployment is high among the educated and those aged 
15-29 years. Kerala has a high level of migrant population. Health conditions 
are good in Kerala. Mortality is low; life expectancy at birth is high, 
especially among females. The TFR varied from 1.6 in Emakulam to 3.4 in 
Malappuram districts during 1984-90. Only 5 districts in 1990 had 
above-replacement fertility. Continued patterns of fertility decline suggest 
that zero population growth may occur in 25-30 years. The implications of the 
age distribution are that the school-age population will decline, as will the 
need for youth products and services. The demographic pressure on unemployment 
will not decline until after 2021. The proportion in the labor force will begin 
to decline after 2000. The proportion aged 50-64 years out of total population 
will increase to 35.5% by 2021. By 2001, the number of females aged 20-24 years 
will almost equal the number of males aged 25-29 years. In 2021, if old-age 
benefits are extended to all elderly, the cost will rise to Rs. 138 million. 
Elderly voters will be 1 in 5 in 2021.

PMID: 12321907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. J Aust Popul Assoc. 1996 May;13(1):1-15. doi: 10.1007/BF03029318.

Trends in health expectancies in Australia 1981-1993.

Mathers C.

"Health expectancy indices combine the mortality and morbidity experience of a 
population into a single composite indicator. This paper summarizes and 
evaluates methods for the calculation of health expectancies and presents trends 
in the expectation of life with disability and handicap in Australia from 1981 
to 1993. Unlike other countries for which recent health expectancy time series 
are available, Australian results indicate that the expectation of years with 
disability has increased for both males and females. Possible explanations for 
this are examined."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF03029318
PMID: 12321982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Vopr Ekon. 1998 May;(5):103-22.

[The demographic potential of Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Vishnevskii A.

PIP: This is a general review of current demographic trends in Russia. The 
author analyzes the decline in population size that is taking place at the end 
of the twentieth century, and traces its origins as far back as the disturbances 
associated with World War I, the Communist revolution, and the civil war that 
followed it. Political repression during the Stalinist period and the 
tribulations experienced during World War II also contributed to the current 
demographic crisis. The author discusses the changes in migration patterns and 
the declining fertility and increasing mortality rates. The decline in life 
expectancy is also addressed. Some comparisons are made with the demographic 
situation in other European countries.

PMID: 12322045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):32-3.

Indonesia: places people at centre of development.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Indonesia's population increased from 119.2 to 201.4 million in the past 26 
years, but its population growth rate has declined to an estimated 1.6%, and its 
total fertility rate has dropped from 5.6 during 1967-70 to less than 2.9. A 
decline in Indonesia's infant mortality rate from 150 in 1961 to 50 in 1997 has 
led to an almost 20-year increase in life expectancy.

PMID: 12322092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):33.

Myanmar: adopts pro-natalist policy.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Myanmar's population is expected to increase from 44.7 million to 49 
million during 1995-2000. Population may reach 67.9 million by 2020. Myanmar has 
a pronatalist population policy. Despite policy, fertility declined from a range 
of 3.4-5.2 children/woman in 1983 to 2.0-3.2 in 1991. The range in fertility 
accounts for differences between urban and rural areas. The dependent population 
under 15 years old is expected to decline from 33.6% to 30.1% (20.5 million) 
during 1995-2020. The elderly population is expected to increase from 7.1% to 
10.4% (7.1 million) during 1990-2020. Yangon is the most populated city, with 
3.5 million persons. 28.9% of the total population was urban in 1997. Life 
expectancy in 1997 was 64 years for women and 61 years for men. The mean age at 
marriage rose from 22.4 years to 26.4 years during 1983-97. Maternal mortality 
was an estimated 231/100,000 live births in 1994.

PMID: 12322093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):33.

Nepal: ICPD spurs changes in policies.

[No authors listed]

The adoption of the International Conference on Population and Development 
(ICPD) Program of Action by Nepal has spurred a number of changes to improve the 
population situation in that country, according to the country report presented 
at the High-Level Meeting. One of the most important of these was the 
establishment of the Ministry for Population and Environment in 1995. As a 
result, a number of policies and programs concerning the population and health 
sector have been formulated and implemented. These are considered important 
because social and economic development is at a low level in Nepal. According to 
the 1991 census, the literacy rate for both sexes was 40% (males 55% and females 
25%). The status of women in Nepal is very low and their role is confined to 
household chores. Some of the indicators of the status of women are the maternal 
mortality rate (MMR), life expectancy at birth, and age at marriage. MMR is 
estimated at 539/100,000 live births and life expectancy was an average of 53.5 
years.

full text

PMID: 12322094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):33.

Malaysia: population issues remain high on agenda.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The government of Malaysia takes population issues seriously despite the 
country's relatively small population of 20.7 million in 1995. Malaysia has 
signaled its commitment to implementing the goals of the 1994 International 
Conference on Population and Development by initiating changes in policies, 
programs, and institutional frameworks to reflect a concern for reproductive 
health, adolescent reproductive health, the family, and women. For 1995-2000, 
declines in overall fertility will reduce Malaysia's population growth to 2% per 
year from 2.6% during the 1980s. The population is expected to increase to 22.8 
million by 2000, 27.8 million by 2010, and 33.4 million by 2020. During this 
period, the proportion will drop of those younger than 15 years old. Malaysia's 
commitment to women is reflected in its low maternal mortality rate (20/100,000 
live births/year) and in the fact that life expectancy for women is 74 years 
compared to 70 years for men. Primary education is nearly universal, and the 
female literacy rate is 84.6%.

PMID: 12322095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):34.

Sri Lanka: transition continues.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Sri Lanka has experienced a unique process of almost reaching replacement 
level fertility. Population amounts to about 18.7 million persons. The growth 
rate is low at about 1.2%. Life expectancy is about 73 years. The low dependency 
ratios allow for socioeconomic development. Sri Lanka has achieved its 
transition due to enlightened population and social development policies. 
Compared to other developing countries at the same level of per capita income, 
Sri Lanka has made greater progress in basic educational enrollment, literacy, 
mortality and fertility decline, and other socioeconomic development. Population 
momentum may result in a rise in total population to about 22.2 million by 2020. 
The government's Health Council adopted a new Population and Reproductive Health 
Policy in December 1997. One goal is gender equity, which will be achieved by 
promotion of equal participation of women and men in all areas of family and 
household responsibilities, including family planning and child care.

PMID: 12322097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. CIRDAP Dev Dig. 1998 Dec;(74):34.
