
Philippines: ICPD has had major programme impact.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Philippines population management program has shaped its policy 
directions and implementation based on the 1994 ICPD. The program now includes 
reproductive health and gender equity goals within its management framework. 
Nongovernmental organizations are active in providing services in hard-to-reach 
areas and inaccessible sectors. Health is slowly improving. The infant mortality 
rate declined to 49/1000 live births. The child mortality rate declined to 
67/1000 during 1990-95. Life expectancy rose to 68 years for females and 65 
years for males. Population was an estimated 72 million or more persons in 1998. 
The growth rate was about 2% annually. Over 38% of the population is under 15 
years old. Over 54% of the population lives in 5 of the country's 15 regions. 
Rural-to-urban migration has contributed to over 50% of the population's living 
in urban areas. About 12.7% of total population live in Metro Manila. Most are 
young and female.

PMID: 12322099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. J Aust Popul Assoc. 1997 Nov;14(2):187-200. doi: 10.1007/BF03029339.

Changing sex differences in life expectancy in Australia between 1970 and 1990.

Trovato F, Lalu NM.

"In this study we decompose the gender based survival difference [in Australia] 
in 1970, 1980 and 1990 into components that can be attributed to different 
causes of death. Our analysis indicates that a significant component of the 
constriction in the differential was due to males having made larger gains than 
females over time with respect to heart disease, accidents and violence 
excluding suicide, and lung cancer.... We discuss [the] findings in the context 
of emerging epidemiological trends in the industrialized world, and the 
implications these have for the future of the sex differential in survival."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF03029339
PMID: 12322103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Integration. 1999 Summer;(60):29.

A reduction of abortions. Russian Federation. The Hague Forum.

Karelova GN.

PIP: Largely due to the country's prevailing socioeconomic conditions, the 
Russian Federation is experiencing complex problems developing its population 
policies. Since the mid-1990s, Russia's population has decreased, working-age 
men suffer high rates of mortality, there is below replacement-level fertility, 
the health of Russian citizens has deteriorated, and STDs are spreading fast. 
Falling life expectancy and the marked aging of the population and labor force 
are causing considerable concern. However, despite these challenging conditions, 
the Russian Federation has been working toward achieving the consensus reached 
at the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD). 
Implementation since 1994 of Presidential Program activities has led to a 33% 
reduction in the number of abortions in Russia and a 20% decrease in maternal 
mortality caused by abortions. Some educational programs for adolescents and 
youth are also under way. The government of the Russian Federation considers 
international cooperation in population issues to be an important activity which 
complements domestic policies and actions. International support needs to be 
mobilized in support of Russian reforms related to social and population issues.

PMID: 12322188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. World Watch. 1999 Sep-Oct;12(5):20-9.

Breaking out or breaking down.

Brown LR, Halweil B.

PIP: A new kind of challenge looms in several regions of the world, where the 
historic trend toward longer life expectancy has been sharply reversed. There 
are three clearly identifiable trends that are causing death rates to increase. 
The first is the spread of the HIV virus, which causes AIDS. As illustrated by 
the case of sub-Saharan Africa, the growth of the HIV epidemic damages a 
nation's social infrastructure, producing lingering demographic and economic 
effects. It reinforces conditions like poverty, illiteracy, and malnutrition. 
Second, the depletion of aquifers has become a major threat, particularly in 
India, where water tables are falling in almost every region. Water shortage 
leads to such problems as infectious diseases, waterborne microbes, and weakened 
water irrigation for farmers, which in turn leads to a diminishment of the food 
supply. The third threat that hangs over the future of nearly all countries 
where rapid population growth continues is the decline in the amount of cropland 
per person; this is a threat arising as a consequence of population growth and 
of the conversion of cropland to other uses. Land scarcity readily translates 
into malnutrition, hunger, rising mortality, and migration. In order to face all 
of these threats, leaders all over the world will need to understand that 
universal access to family planning is not only important for coping with 
resource scarcity and the spread of HIV/AIDS but is also likely to improve the 
quality of life for citizens of their countries.

PMID: 12322237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Afr Rep. 1988 Nov-Dec:17-22.

AIDS and apartheid: double trouble.

Seftel D.

PIP: This article discusses the impact of the apartheid system on health care 
and AIDS in South Africa. Statistics indicate grossly unequal health care 
services for Whites and Blacks. Black state hospitals are grossly overcrowded, 
underserviced, and poorly equipped and financed, while Whites served by the 
state health services enjoy a doctor-patient ratio of 1:330 and a nurse-patient 
ratio almost 700% better. According to the state-published South African 
Yearbook, the impact of this situation is reflected by the relative life 
expectancy of Blacks (58.9 years) versus Whites (73.2 years). Meanwhile, in the 
context of AIDS care in South Africa, White patients receive state-of-the-art 
intensive care unit and AZT treatment in the well-funded White patientsÂ¿ 
hospitals and most pay little or nothing for the service. In contrast, the 
state's response to the AIDS problem in the Black community is described as 
irresponsible and ineffectual, wherein apartheid regime is clearly illustrated. 
In conclusion, since one of the big problems in South Africa is the Black 
population explosion, it cannot fight AIDS effectively unless it fights the 
rigidly entrenched inequities of apartheid health care services.

PMID: 12322403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. AIDS Anal Afr. 2000 Feb-Mar;10(5):2.

AIDS epidemic update: December 1999.

Joint United Nations Programme on HIV / AIDS UNAIDS.

PIP: This article is a Joint UN Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) updated report from 
December 1999 on the AIDS epidemic. Observations included in the report are the 
following: 1) an estimated 33.6 million HIV/AIDS-infected individuals (23.3 
million in Africa); 2) in 1999, 5.6 million new infections (3.8 million are in 
Africa); 3) since the epidemic began, there have been 2.6 million AIDS-related 
deaths; and 4) the life expectancy has dropped to 45 years for the next 5 years. 
Furthermore, the antenatal estimates tend to underestimate the real level of HIV 
infection in women and the conclusion seems to indicate that there are 
significantly more women infected with HIV infection than men. UNAIDS estimates 
that the ratio for every 10 men infected, there are 12-13 women that are 
HIV-positive. It was suggested that a degraded macroeconomic situation directly 
influence the health services, which confirms the link between poverty and HIV 
infection. During the 1996 study conducted in South Africa, an estimate of 52% 
from the 11 million people between 16-30 years old were unemployed, half of them 
classified under marginalized with few prospects of formal sector employment. 
This has led young people to adopt short-term survival strategies, which often 
include exchanging sex for schooling, employment, money or shelter before 
long-term well-being. This article may prove to be a useful background for 
policy development aimed at reversing the situation.

PMID: 12322486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. China Popul Today. 2000 Jun;17(2-3):14-8.

Interactions between development and human health.

Song X.

PIP: The policy reform in China, which was adopted 20 years ago, has greatly 
boosted the country's economic development as a whole, but has in the process 
widened the economic gaps between the eastern and western part of the country. 
This paper examines the existing disparities between China's two regions, 
particularly the eastern and western part in terms of average life expectancy, 
infant mortality, and causes of death relative to its realization in achieving 
sustainable development. It is evident that the level of life expectancy in 
western China in the early 1990s did not measure up to the level of the early 
1970s in the eastern provinces. Average life expectancy in the eastern provinces 
ranged over 70 years in 1990 with its infant mortality rate registering between 
8.8 and 29.2 per 1000, whereas the life expectancy in the western areas ranged 
below the national average of 68.6 years and 37.3-96.2 per 1000 for its infant 
mortality rate. In the context of the causes of death, poverty-related and 
infectious diseases are considered as the main causes for the disparity between 
the eastern and western China in mortality rates. Level of socioeconomic 
development; population development; poor sanitary condition; poor health-care 
facilities; and adverse natural conditions and a fragile ecological environment 
are the compounding factors for these disparities. Several recommendations for 
decision-makers in implementing strategies to achieve sustainable development 
are presented.

PMID: 12322586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Popul Bull. 2000 Jun;55(2):1-43.

America's diversity and growth: signposts for the 21st century.

Riche MF.

PIP: This report provides a summary of the US demographic and population trends 
in the 21st century. It gives objective information on population growth, the 
determinants of population change, residential trends, racial and ethnic 
diversity, age profile, family life, households and families, measures of 
well-being, and future prospects. It is shown that US population is growing 
through relatively high fertility, migration and increasing life expectancy. 
Longer life expectancy has had a significant effect on American family life. 
Immigration fuels rapid population growth and social change creating increased 
ethnic diversity. Family life pattern also shifted, early marriage is replaced 
by cohabitation and divorce rates are increasing resulting in increased number 
of single-parent families. Many Americans have prospered well beyond their 
expectations; educational attainment vastly improved; more people moved out of 
poverty and more working women indicates a change in the workforce trends. 
Overall, it is noted that the US population will continue to grow. Prospect of 
such robust growth intensifies concerns about pollution and other environmental 
threats. At the same time, it seem that population growth is inextricably linked 
to the nations's prosperity.

PMID: 12322593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Med Hypotheses. 2002 Jun;58(6):540-3. doi: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1529.

Life duration: a new systemic hypothesis.

Kolomiytsev AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Rostov-na-Donu Medical University, Rostov-na-Donu, 
Russia. betrg@pbox.ttn.ru

A new hypothesis of ageing based on morphologic evidence is presented. The 
developmental process is determined by a kinetic curve of population growth 
which is typical for every association of cells. Every multicellular organism is 
considered as a system that consists of various cellular associations in 
symbiotic interaction. One of these associations is dominant and determines the 
developmental kinetics of the whole organism. The nervous system is the dominant 
cell association in mammals. The duration of its development is restricted by 
the lack of capability of neurons to regenerate in adult organisms. This may 
determine the duration of life and persistence of various pathologic processes.

DOI: 10.1054/mehy.2001.1529
PMID: 12323129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. N Engl J Med. 2002 Sep 26;347(13):993-1000. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa020969.

An economic evaluation of activated protein C treatment for severe sepsis.

Manns BJ(1), Lee H, Doig CJ, Johnson D, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
braden.manns@calgaryhealthregion.ca

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Sep 26;347(13):966-7.
    ACP J Club. 2003 May-Jun;138(3):81.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant human activated protein C was shown in the Recombinant 
Human Activated Protein C Worldwide Evaluation in Severe Sepsis (PROWESS) study 
to reduce mortality among patients with severe sepsis. A post hoc reanalysis by 
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of data from this study suggested that 
the reduction in mortality was restricted to patients with Acute Physiology and 
Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II) scores of 25 or more.
METHODS: We estimated the cost effectiveness of activated protein C as compared 
with conventional care for patients with severe sepsis. We performed an economic 
analysis involving all patients, as well as analyses of subgroups defined 
according to age and severity of illness. The probabilities of transition 
between clinical states and the estimates of resource use were derived from a 
population-based cohort of patients with severe sepsis. We used data on the 
effectiveness of activated protein C from the PROWESS study and analyses by the 
FDA.
RESULTS: The cost per life-year gained by treating all patients with activated 
protein C was $27,936. It was more cost effective to treat patients with an 
APACHE II score of 25 or more ($24,484 per life-year gained) than those with a 
lower APACHE II score ($35,632 per life-year gained). The cost effectiveness of 
treating patients with an APACHE II score of 24 or less increased to $575,054 
per life-year gained when the FDA's estimates of effectiveness were considered. 
For patients with an APACHE II score of 25 or more, the cost per life-year 
gained increased with age ($16,309 for patients less than 40 years of age; 
$28,100 for those 80 years of age or older).
CONCLUSIONS: Activated protein C is relatively cost effective when targeted to 
patients with severe sepsis, greater severity of illness (an APACHE II score of 
25 or more), and a reasonable life expectancy if they survive the episode of 
sepsis. Further research is needed to determine the cost effectiveness of 
activated protein C for patients with sepsis and less severe illness.

Copyright 2002 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa020969
PMID: 12324556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2002 Sep-Oct;18 Suppl 3:S27-31. doi:
10.1002/dmrr.280.

Diabetes trends in Latin America.

Aschner P(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Unit, Javeriana University, Scientific Subdirector, Diabetes 
Center, Colombian Diabetes Association, Colombia. paschner@cable.net.co

The incidence of type 1 diabetes in Latin America ranges from 0.4 to 8.3 cases 
per 100000 children under 15 years of age, and the prevalence of type 2 diabetes 
ranges from 1.2% to 8%, with higher prevalence rates in urban areas. The 
frequency of diabetes in Latin America is expected to increase by 38% over the 
next 10 years, compared with an estimated 14% increase in the total population. 
The total number of cases of diabetes is expected to more than double and to 
exceed the number of cases in the US, Canada, and Europe by 2025. Factors 
underlying this increase include aging and increased life expectancy of the 
population, increased urbanization, and lifestyle changes among Native American 
populations. In many places, only a minority of individuals currently receives 
treatment for diabetes. Furthermore, the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes often 
occurs late in the course of the disease, with the result that 10-40% of 
patients have chronic complications at the time of diagnosis. Hospital costs 
account for most direct expenditures associated with treatment, and mortality 
associated with diabetes has increased markedly in some areas over the past 2 
decades.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.280
PMID: 12324982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Stat Med. 2002 Oct 15;21(19):2879-88. doi: 10.1002/sim.1292.

Economic evaluation in long-term clinical trials.

Hlatky MA(1), Boothroyd DB, Johnstone IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-5405, USA. hlatky@stanford.edu

Economic endpoints have been increasingly included in long-term clinical trials, 
but they pose several methodologic challenges, including how best to collect, 
describe, analyse and interpret medical cost data. Cost of care can be measured 
by converting billed charges, performing detailed micro-costing studies, or by 
measuring use of key resources and assigning cost weights to each resource. The 
latter method is most commonly used, with cost weights based either on empirical 
regression models or administratively determined reimbursement rates. In 
long-term studies, monetary units should be adjusted to reflect cost inflation 
and discounting. The temporal pattern of accumulating costs can be described 
using a modification of the Kaplan-Meier curve. Regression analyses to evaluate 
factors associated with cost are best performed on the log of costs due to their 
typically skewed distribution.Cost-effectiveness analysis attempts to measure 
the value of a new therapy by calculating the difference in cost between the new 
therapy and the standard therapy, divided by the difference in benefit between 
the new therapy and the standard therapy. The cost-effectiveness ratio based on 
the results of a randomized trial may change substantially with longer follow-up 
intervals, particularly for therapies that are initially expensive but 
eventually improve survival. A model that projects long-term patterns of cost 
and survival expected beyond the end of completed follow-up can provide an 
important perspective in the setting of limited trial duration.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1292
PMID: 12325104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Stat Med. 2002 Oct 15;21(19):2889-97. doi: 10.1002/sim.1293.

Evaluating the costs and effectiveness of cardiovascular therapies: who cares 
about economic analyses?

Califf RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, 
North Carolina, USA. calif001@mc.duke.edu

The field of cardiovascular medicine is providing important insights about how 
the costs and effectiveness of diagnostic and therapeutic technologies are 
managed. As health-care budgets have taken up more of the economy and as 
employers and patients have become concerned about the escalating costs of 
health care, we have entered an era in which individual practitioners must 
become concerned with the costs of a service relative to its benefits. Further, 
increasing numbers of effective therapies in a time when finances are notably 
constrained, we clearly cannot use all effective therapies in all patients. 
Increasingly, therefore, we must assess the value derived from spending 
incremental money on health care products and services. This exercise has been 
termed cost-effectiveness analysis. The case of the platelet glycoprotein 
IIb/IIIa inhibitor, abciximab, is used to illustrate many of the issues 
surrounding the collection, interpretation, and (mis) application of 
cost-effectiveness data.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1293
PMID: 12325105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2002 Jul-Aug;(4):6-11.

[Migration and formation of medical-demographic processes].

[Article in Russian]

Tishuk EA.

The paper presents the results of a study into the impact of migration, 
including rotational one on the formation of medicodemographic processes, such 
as composition and natural movement of the population, general and 
age-standardized causes of death.

PMID: 12325437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Clin Term. 1970 Apr 30;53:1-22.

Our role in the generation, modification and termination of life.

Williams RH.

PIP: Questionnaries answered by professors of medicine indicate strong concern 
about but not agreement on ways of dealing with overpopulation. (Earth's 
population is now doubling every 37 years.). Overpopulation must be reduced by 
education, counseling, provision of contraceptive services and development of 
simple abortifacients. Extension of amniocentesis studies with simple abortion 
for defective fetuses is indicated. As organ transplantation becomes more 
successful, philosophic considerations must prevail with the advantages and 
disadvantages of prolonging life carefully weighed in each case. Prolongation of 
the life of the body in the absence of mentation is negligent. Problems of aging 
and potential suicide require sympathy and understanding. Physicians must 
consider negative euthenasia for people suffering agonies of physical and mental 
deterioration. Arrangements for positive euthenasia under appropriate conditions 
must also become a possibility.

PMID: 12331938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Am Stat Assoc. 1969 Dec;64(328):1234-44. doi:
10.1080/01621459.1969.10501052.

Higher female than male mortality in some countries of South Asia: a digest.

El-badry MA.

PIP: A statistical study was made of sex ratios and mortality in Ceylon, 
Pakistan, and India. Contrary to general expectations, female mortality was 
higher than male mortality. A greater divergence in the sex ratio was found with 
increased age. Female emigration and abnormal sex ratios at birth are discounted 
as explanations of the phenomenon. It is considered that underenumeration of 
females in the census and higher female mortality rates, especially during the 
reproductive years and childhood, are responsible for the inverted sex ratio. 
The projected sex ratios for these countries are not reflected in the model life 
tables derived from international experience.

DOI: 10.1080/01621459.1969.10501052
PMID: 12332319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. PSD Commun Newsl. 1978 Aug;1(2):10-1.

CFSC (Community and Family Study Center) study finds birth rates falling 
everywhere - family planning (family planning) is a factor.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The findings of the Community and Family Study Center study, based on 
estimated crude birthrates and total fertility rates for 1968 and 1975, indicate 
that there has been a significant reduction in fertility levels of both 
developed and developing countries. Despite regional variations, the estimates 
show an average proportional decline of 8.5% in total fertility rates between 
1968 and 1975. Of the 148 nations studied, 113 were in developing regions and 35 
in the developed regions. Information on important social and economic 
development factors, such as life expectancy, literacy, percent of labor force 
in agriculture, per capita income, and family planning program strength were 
gathered for each country. Analyses of these data are reported in "The Public 
Interest" (to be published) "Population Reference Bulletin," October 1978, and a 
paper presented at the 1978 Population Association of America Meetings in 
Atlanta, Georgia. The recent change in fertility affected 81% of the world's 
population, primarily the peoples of Asia, Latin America, and North America. The 
total fertility rate in the world in 1968 was 4635 and declined to 4068 in 1975. 
More substantial declines occurred in Asia and Latin America, where the number 
of fewer births 1000 women would bear under a given fertility schedule declined 
by 845 births and 617 births, respectively. As more research is conducted to 
investigate the underlying causes of this decline, it is likely to confirm the 
important role that family planning programs have had in developing nations. 
Although major improvements in the socioeconomic well-being of the developing 
areas continue as an essential goal, the need to maintain the organized 
provision of family planning services should not be understated.

PMID: 12335445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Hum Ecol. 1978 Dec;6(4):435-67. doi: 10.1007/BF00889419.

Population dynamics among Asmat hunter-gatherers of New Guinea: data, methods, 
comparisons.

Van Arsdale PW.

PIP: Since 1953 the Asmat hunter-gatherers of Irian Jaya have been experiencing 
rapid cultural change, yet demographically they still can be classified as 
"living primitives." Methods of nonstandard data analysis are used in an effort 
to provide specific information on age-sex structure, fertility, birthrates, 
death rates, population growth, internal migration, and life expectancy and to 
aid in the development of a 2-part model of population growth encompassing the 
immediate precontact and contact eras. The population data upon which the 
discussion is based were obtained in 1973 and 1974 as part of a broader field 
study that aimed at assessing the impact of externally induced culture change. 
Special attention is given to the continuing although reduced impact of 
infanticide. Brief comparisons with other Melanesian and 3rd world societies are 
presented; the Asmat average annual growth rate of 1.5% since 1st permanent 
contact in 1953 contrasts with the generally higher rates reported for most of 
these other groups.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00889419
PMID: 12335596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Adv Plan Parent. 1979;14(1):21-6.

Four years' experience with the TCu 220C, a long-acting multisleeved copper 
intrauterine device.

Thiery M, Van Der Pas H, Van Kets H, Boogers W, Haspels A, Amy J-j.

PIP: 4 years of experience with the TCu 220C (901 women; 28,071 woman months of 
use) - a long-acting multisleeved copper IUD - are analyzed. Event rates were 
calculated by life-table analysis with a computer program on an IBM 
370/148-OS/VS1. Net cumulative rates at 4 years were as follows: pregnancy 3.3, 
expulsion 5.2, removal for bleeding, pain and other medical reasons 7.7, and 4.3 
respectively. The incidence of pregnancy, expulsions, and removal for 
bleeding/pain decreases with time. Parity influences the performance of the TCu 
220C. It seems to affect the pregnancy rate only marginally, but the expulsion 
and removal rates (for bleeding, pain, or other medical reasons) are higher in 
the nulliparae, and the same trends appear to be present for women of lower age 
groups. The IUD insertion technique seems to be important when determining the 
effectiveness of the method. The expulsion rate is significantly higher when the 
push-in technique (without sounding) is used, and the same tendency is present 
for pregnancies and removals for bleeding/pain, albeit to a lesser degree. 
Refraining from sounding the uterus and pushing-in the TCu 220C introduces the 
risk of not inserting the IUD high enough into the uterine cavity and therefore 
increases the risk of expulsion.

PMID: 12335870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Estud Poblac. 1978 Dec;3(7-12):7-19.

[Mortality, distribution of income and rural-urban residence in Brazil].

[Article in Spanish]

De Carvalho JA, Wood CH.

PIP: This study defines the relationship among mortality, development planning, 
and economic growth in Brazil. The estimated life expectancy is a quantitative 
indication of socioeconomic differences according to region, social class, rural 
or urban residence. During the last 10 years of economic development there have 
been important changes in the amount of salaries: while the income of the upper 
classes, or 5% of the population, augmented 27.3-36.2%, the income of the lower 
classes, or 40% of the population, decreased 11.2-9.1%. This was the result of 
government policies designed to control inflation and to stimulate the economic 
development. Mortality rate in Brazil was strongly influenced by such changes, 
since a low salary tends to exclude the poor from many medical services, to 
reduce the quality and quantity of nutrition, and to relegate families to a 
generally inferior quality of life. Infant mortality was particularly sensible 
to changes in income, as surveys done in Sao Paulo and in Belo Horizonte amply 
demonstrated.

PMID: 12336081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1980 Apr;1(2):143-8.

Post-placental insertion of IUDs.

Aznar R, Reynoso L, Montemayor G, Giner J.

PIP: A study was conducted into the efficacy of high fundal insertion of IUDs 
immediately postplacental delivery. 1008 women who were delivered at 5 large 
hospitals in Mexico during 1978 accepted this method of contraception. 5 
different types of IUD were inserted by approximately 75 persons (ranging from 
medical students through interns and residents to certified gynecologists) by 3 
different insertion techniques. Age and parity of the acceptors are tabulated. 
Life table follow-up analysis is used to cover cumulative pregnancy, expulsion, 
removal and continuation events at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months postinsertion. The 
continuation rate at the end of a year was 61.8 and this rate may rise as the 
study is completed. There were no differences as to any of these events or in 
the extent of postinsertion bleeding among the groups using the 5 different 
devices or with the 3 different techniques. High fundus placement seems to have 
improved the retention of IUDs inserted immediately after delivery. Rates for 
accidental pregnancy and medical removal were the same as those obtained with 
interval IUD insertion. Infection rates did not increase with this timing of 
insertion. Patient acceptance of this method was high.

PMID: 12336241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1980 Apr;1(2):149-54.

Interim insertion of the ML Cu 250 intrauterine contraceptive device.

Vankets He Thiery M, Van Der Pas H, Delbeke L Van Os WA, Tauber PE, Dombrowicz 
N, Macdonald JS, Haspels AA, Drogenduk AC.

PIP: This report presents the results of a straight multicenter study of 
interval placement of the multiload IUD (ML Cu 250), covering a total of 100,871 
woman-months. Between 11/74 and 3/78, 4553 interim insertions of the ML Cu 250 
were performed in outpatients using the push-in technique. Life-table analysis 
was used to calculate event rates; a Chi-square test was used for comparison of 
event rates. Potential effects of age and gravidity/parity were analyzed for 3 
years of use. Significantly fewer unwanted pregnancies were observed in women 
over 30 (p 0.001), as were removals for either bleeding/pain (p 0.001) or other 
medical reasons (p 0.01). The reverse, however, was found for expulsion rate (p 
0.01). There was no significant difference in pregnancy rate and removal rate 
for other medical reasons (at 3 years) between nulligravidas and women with at 
least 1 child. Nulligravid IUD users however had significantly more expulsions 
(p 0.001) and removals for bleeding/pain (p 0.001) than did parous women.

PMID: 12336242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1980 Apr;1(2):95-101.

Pregnancy rate after longer use of two copper IUDs.

Kozuh-novak M, Andolsek L.

PIP: The life table method was used to analyze the longterm performance of 2 
types of Copper IUDs in a study in Yugoslavia. Follow-up was carried out for 7 
years in 93 Copper T 200 users and for 6 years in 165 Copper 7 users. The 
cumulative continuation rate for the Copper T 200 after 7 years was 46.2 and for 
the Copper 7 after 6 years was 42.9. Contrary to expectations, the pregnancy 
rate decreased with duration of use. Neither decreased coital frequency in 
higher ages nor the decreasing number of cases available for observation account 
for the lower pregnancy rate during the later years of follow-up. All data are 
tabulated and graphed. As a result of this study, it is concluded that Copper 
IUDs can be effective in preventing pregnancy for much longer than the 
recommended 3 years.

PMID: 12336244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Popul Bull UN. 1976;(8):97-106.

New United Nations projections: a brief summary of the projections of total 
population as assessed in 1973-1974.

United Nations. Secretariat.

PIP: Results of the quinguennial updating of United Nations projections carried 
out in 1973-74 are presented. A brief overview is followed by a more detailed 
discussion of total population growth, fertility, mortality, and projected 
changes in age structure in developed and developing regions and subregions. The 
rate of increase for the world is expected to be 1.9-2.0% per annum between 1970 
and 1985, but may decline by the year 2000 to 1.6% per year. In developing areas 
the annual rate of growth is expected to decline to 1.9% by the end of the 
century while that of the more developed areas declines to 0.6%. The world 
population may increase by 73% to 6254 million by 2000. The share of the more 
developed regions would shrink from 30 to 22% of total world population from 
1970 to 2000. Little change in fertility levels is expected in developed 
countries, but the gross reproduction rate in the less developed regions is 
anticipated to fall from 2.6 in 1970 to 1.8 in 2000, while the crude birth rate 
drops by 26% from 38 per 1000 in 1970 to 28 per 1000 in 2000. An overall gain of 
more than 10 years in life expectancy at birth for both sexes is expected in 
developing countries, from 52.2 in 1970 to 62.6 in 2000, and the crude death 
rate may decline from 14 to 9 per 1000. The world would experience an aging 
process due to the global decline in fertility, and the proportion under 15 
would decline from 37% to 32%.

PMID: 12336553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Notas Poblacion. 1981 Apr;9(25):95-144.

[The mortality model developed by Brass].

[Article in Spanish]

Chackiel J.

PIP: The author analyzes Brass's logit transformation, its properties, and the 
demographic significance of its parameters. Model life tables constructed using 
this system are compared with others, particularly the U.N. and Coale-Demeny 
tables. Possible uses of the model are indicated, including data evaluation and 
adjustment, life table construction, mortality projection, and the construction 
of stable populations. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12336942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Popul Policy Compend. 1980 Oct:1-7.

Malaysia.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs; United 
Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: The official government policy in Malaysia is to reduce the rate of 
population growth through decreasing fertility levels and a program of economic 
and social restructuring. Population policy was conceived as encompassing wider 
dimensions than family planning, with emphasis on spatial distribution policies. 
The first Population and Housing Census was undertaken by the government in 
1970. Regular decennial census taking occurred between 1891 and 1957. Birth and 
death registrations are considered incomplete. Population issues are integrated 
by various organizations into their ongoing programs such as those of the 
Ministries of Health, Education or Agriculture. The National Family Planning 
Board, an interministerial body in the Prime Minister's Department, has input 
from development planning units. A population studies group was established 
within the Economic Planning Unit. The total 1980 population was 13,640,000; the 
rate of population growth was 2.6 from 1975-80. Life expectancy was 61.3. 
Morbidity and mortality rates have dropped because of disease control and 
malnutrition reduction. 7.4% of the population are foreign born. Spatial 
distribution is to be adjusted through rural land development and resettlement; 
promotion of industrial development in low-income states; development of new 
growth centers and towns; and, urban development and renewal.

PMID: 12336969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1981 Oct;2(4):275-80.

Comparison of four different models of the Multiload copper IUD.

Os WA, Thiery M, Van Der Pas H, Rhemrev PE, De Nooyer CC, Kleinhout J.

PIP: This study evaluates the standard Multiload model (ML Cu 250) IUD in order 
to develop more effective and acceptable variants. The experiments consisted of 
1) shortening the vertical stem of the standard model (ML Cu 250-short); 2) 
reducing the size of the skeleton (ML Cu 250-mini); and 3) increasing the copper 
area of the ML Cu 250 to 375 mm square (ML CU 375). Data used in this 
multicenter assessment of ML models were derived from different time periods: 1) 
from November 1, 1974 to December 31, 1977, 2786 women were fitted with a 
standard ML Cu 250; 2) from February 1, 1977 to February 1, 1980, 813 were 
fitted with a ML Cu 250-short, and 444 with a ML Cu 250-mini; and 3) from 
December 1, 1978 to December 1, 1979, 746 women were fitted with a ML Cu 375. 
Net cumulative event rates at 12-month intervals and up to 3 years of use were 
calculated by life-table analysis using a computer program. No important 
differences in performance were observed between the ML Cu 250-standard and ML 
Cu 250-short during the first year of use. However, the ML Cu 250-mini was 
associated with a slightly higher pregnancy rate and a removal rate for 
bleeding/pain twice that of the standard model. The ML Cu 375 had a pregnancy 
rate of only 0.1 and a low removal rate for the other events. Results for the 
second and third years of use further confirmed the poor performance of the ML 
Cu 250-mini: a relatively high cumulative pregnancy rate (3.1 at 3 years), a 
higher rate for other complications, and a markedly reduced continuation rate. 
It is concluded that reducing the overall size of the ML Cu 250-standard 
skeleton results in loss of flexibility, especially the side arms. Because of 
high pregnancy and complication rates associated with the ML Cu 250-mini, use of 
this device should be restricted to women having a very small uterus (sound 
length 5 cm) and should be removed after 1 year.

PMID: 12336987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Popul Res. 1977;4(2):1-15.

Contribution of decline in infant and childhood mortality to the expectation of 
life at birth.

Gupta RB.

PMID: 12337063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Technol Forecast Soc Change. 1979;13(4):333-45. doi: 
10.1016/0040-1625(79)90088-x.

Longevity benefits and costs of reducing various risks.

Schwing RC.

"Increased longevity is one alternative to lives saved as a measure of benefits 
derived from large-scale risk-reduction programs that demand resources of the 
total population. This measure, for several categories of risk, is presented in 
the context of the risks prevalent to society. Some estimates of the theoretical 
benefits due to the successful reduction of risks imposed by industry are 
provided. Cost-effectiveness values and these measures of program impact on 
longevity are graphically presented for several mortality-reducing programs."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1016/0040-1625(79)90088-x
PMID: 12337460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. J Sci Ind Res (India). 1980 Jul;39(7):359-63.

A delphi study on health in future India.

Rohatgi K, Rohatgi PK.

PIP: A delphi study was conducted to identify or envision health scenarios in 
India by the year 2000. Questionnaires consisting of 48 questions on 5 areas 
(diagnosis and therapy; family planning; pharmaceuticals and drugs; biochemical 
and biomedical research; health services) were mailed to 250 experts in India. 
36 responded. Results were compiled and mailed back to the respondents for 
changes and comments. 17 people responded. Results of the delphi study shows 
that policy decisions with respect to compulsory family planning as well as 
health education at secondary school level will precede further breakthroughs in 
birth control technology. Non operation reversible sterilization procedures, 
immunological birth control, Ayurvedic medicines for contraception and abortion, 
and selection of baby's sex are all possible by 2000 thereafter. Complete 
eradication of infectious diseases, malnutrition and associated diseases is 
considered unlikely before 2000, as are advances in biomedical research. Changes 
in health services (e.g., significant increases in hospital beds and doctors, 
cheap bulk drugs), particularly in rural areas, are imminent, leading to 
prolonging of life expectancy to 70 years. Genetic engineering may provide 
significant breakthroughs in the prevention of malignancies and cardiac 
disorders. The India delphi study is patterned after a similar delphi study 
conducted in the U.S. by Smith, Kline and French (SKF) Laboratories in 1968. The 
SKF study was able to predict some breakthroughs with basic research which have 
been realized.

PMID: 12337597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1981 May;7(4):5-9.

Regression estimates of mortality from incomplete death registration.

Gunasekaran S, Palmore JA, Gardner RW.

PIP: Regression models using data from 280 populations have been used to develop 
a procedure to estimate life expectancy at birth using incomplete vital 
registration data under the alternative assumption of constant rules of 
incompleteness at all ages and all ages over 5 years. The model based on the 
latter assumption is preferred, since registration is usually less complete at 
ages below 5 than at older ages. These models were applied to 43 countries with 
reliable death registration data and 25 countries with incomplete registration 
data. The estimates of life expectancy at birth were found to be generally 
consistent with the UN estimates and those of a 1977 study. By use of a 
tabulation of registered deaths and population by broad age categories, it is 
possible to estimate with reasonable accuracy a common measure of mortality. The 
procedures are applicable regardless of the extent of underregistration under 
the basic assumption of constant rates of registration completeness at ages 
above 5. Application to data for several countries lends support to the 
plausability of this assumption and results in fairly accurate estimates. The 
importance of exploring empirical relationships between demographic indices and 
the usefulness of publishing vital registration data on a regular basis, even 
when registration is very incomplete is noted.

PMID: 12337612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1977;33(21):1,207-11.

[Diminished life expectancy for adolescent and young adult Belgians due to 
increase in violent deaths].

[Article in Dutch]

Vandenbroucke JP.

PMID: 12337730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Viitorul Soc. 1978;7(1):142-52.

[Life expectancy in Romania].

[Article in Romanian]

Ghetau V.

PMID: 12337797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Rev Bras Estat. 1977;38(151):305-240.

[Life tables for units of the Federation: 1970].

[Article in Portuguese]

Martins M, Frias Lam.

PMID: 12337802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Studia Demogr. 1979;(55):111-22.

[Investigations of the settlement complex of the population of the Tarnobrzeg 
group in Bachorze-Chodorowka].

[Article in Polish]

Bugajska B, Gedl M.

PIP: The authors use an anthropological examination of a cemetary in Poland to 
obtain information about the population structure of the area in the early and 
middle periods of the Bronze Age. Average life expectancy and mortality are 
estimated, and the characteristics and history of the society are considered 
(SUMMARY IN ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12337884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Studia Demogr. 1979;(55):123-35.

[Some results of paleo-demographic investigations of the population of 
Gdansk-Pomerania, 600-100 B.C].

[Article in Polish]

Gladykowska-rzeczycka J.

PIP: The author examines the biological structure of the populations of 
Gdansk-Pomerania using anthropological analyses of the bone remains from 10 
cemetaries dating from 600 to 100 B.C. Information is provided on mortality, 
life expectancy, probability of death, proportions surviving to specified ages, 
fertility, natural increase, and family structure (SUMMARY IN ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12337885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Studia Demogr. 1979;(55):137-44.

[Biological characteristics of the local community of the Hallstadt period 
living in the settlement micro-region of Wicina].

[Article in Polish]

Piontek J.

PIP: The author uses analyses of bone remains from a cemetary of the Luzyce 
culture in Wicina, Poland, to characterize the biological structure of the 
population. Patterns of mortality, fertility, and reproductive potential are 
determined using life table calculations based on the frequency distribution of 
death by age (SUMMARY IN ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12337886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Studia Demogr. 1979;(55):41-56.

[Connections between social policy and demography].

[Article in Polish]

Czyzowska Z.

PIP: The author discusses the possibility of helping solve social policy 
problems in Poland through the analysis of the country's demographic 
characteristics. Means of using data on factors such as population size and 
composition, rates of natural increase, infant mortality, life expectancy to 
formulate effective and comprehensive social and economic policies are examined 
(SUMMARY IN ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12337889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. An Soc Geogr Hist. 1977;50:133-49.

[Mortality in Guatemala at the end of the nineteenth century].

[Article in Spanish]

Arias De Blois J.

PMID: 12337922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Demografie. 1979;21(4):365.

[Live birth rate, mortality, and abortion rate in 1974-1979 and 12-months 
sliding averages].

[Article in Czech]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12337973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Demografie. 1979;21(4):375-8.

[Regional life tables, 1973-1974, 1974-1975, and 1975-1976].

[Article in Czech]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12337979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Wiad Stat (Warsaw). 1979;24(5):19-22.

[Impact of the decreasing child mortality on the extension of average life 
duration].

[Article in Polish]

Mijakowska J.

PMID: 12338009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Data Asia. 1981 Aug 24-30;10(35):8229.

China: economy: living standard.

[No authors listed]

The livelihood of the urban and rural population continued to improve last year, 
when the average consumption/person reached 224 yuan, according to the latest 
data released by the State Statisitical Bureau. The bureau, which is responsible 
for the collection, compilation, and analysis of economic and social statistics, 
said that after ajustment for inflationary factors, the per capital consumption 
reflected an increase of 99% since 1952 or an average of 2.5% annually (Table 
1). The sustained annual increase was attributed mostly to the remarkable 
improvement in production, which in turn led to the rise in Chinese peasants' 
income (L,8049). The Ministry of Agriculture said the average income of each 
rural inhabitant in China in 1980 was 155 yuan, which compared with 152.69 yuan 
in 1979, 143.17 yuan in 1978 and 133.94 yuan in 1977. As a result of the 
