increased income, the people's purchasing power also improved. Compared with 
1952, each Chinese consumed 8.2% more grain last year, 9.8% more vegetable oil, 
88.6% more pork, and 320% more sugar. In the World Banks's 1st extensive report 
on China, published last June, the improvement in the people's livelihood was 
cited as the country's most remarkable achievement, although "marked rural 
inequality and poverty still exist in some areas." The Statistical Bureau's data 
also revealed a significant decline in infant mortality--from 139/1000 in 1954 
to 20 in 1980. In contrast with the fall in mortality rate, the average life 
expectancy in China increased from 57 years in 1957 to 68 years in 1980, a 
development which was also hailed by the World Bank.

full text

PMID: 12338062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Contracept Deliv Syst. 1982 Apr;3(2):99-102.

Pregnancy rates during long-term use of copper IUDs.

Huber A, Olbrich E.

990 cases of women using standard copper IUDs (Cu 7; Cu T; Multiload) up to a 
maximum period of 8 years have been analyzed statistically. The long-term use 
effectiveness was evaluated mainly by using statistical methods (life table). 
Pregnancy rates decreased during the whole period of observation but more 
evidently after 2 years of use. It is recommended that medicated IUDs, free of 
side effects, be exchanged only after 5 years of use, corrosive changes being 
not too far advanced after this period. New IUD models are less likely to be 
subject to corrosion and will therefore need to be replaced less frequently.

PMID: 12338176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Rev Tunis Etud Popul. 1980;1(1):3-31.

[Mortality in the Maghreb].

[Article in French]

Bchir M, Tabutin D.

PMID: 12338277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Int J Sociol Fam. 1980;10(1):67-80.

Child and spouse replacement mechanisms: a life cycle perspective on family 
composition in Peru.

Tienda M.

PIP: The author assesses the patterns of family extension in Peru by examining 
variations in family composition over the family life cycle. The amount and type 
of extension among Peruvian families at successive stages of family development 
are examined. The relative importance of general overlap and of child and spouse 
replacement mechanisms as processes that help to ensure the viability of 
residential family units is studied. The empirical analysis is based on a 
1970-1971 survey of a national sample of Peruvian households

PMID: 12338281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1980;(3):1-7, 44.

[Quantity and quality of the aged population in Japan: the use of life tables 
for the assessment of group vitality].

[Article in Japanese]

Soda T.

PIP: Due to the gradual increase in standard of living and the development of 
health and welfare services, man has succeeded in decreasing the death rate for 
all age groups with the consequent prolongation of the lifespan as a whole. On 
the other hand, however, the quantitative accumulation of the elderly is causing 
serious anxiety among all groups of people. Thus, concern about care for the 
aged is very high. The author is not quite so pessimistic but it is expected 
that there will be a qualitative improvement in the productive activities of the 
elderly along with an increased lifespan. Though there is not yet sufficient 
data to confirm improvement in the physical and mental activities of this 
segment of Japanese population, there are life table functions related to life 
expectancy, increase of mortality rate, etc. as qualitative indicators of 
survival or productive ability for the aged. In Japan prior to World War 2, 
people between 15-60 were usually regarded as the productive age population. 
Life expectancy of males at age 60 was 12.6 years in the 6th life tables 
compiled for 1935-6. The same phenomenon of prolongation of the productive age 
period was also recognized in connection with other values. If the borderline 
age dividing productive and nonproductive elderly populations will move toward a 
higher age in the future, the proportion of nonproductive elderly as a 
percentage of the total as well as of the productive population will decrease 
markedly as compared to when the elderly borderline is fixed at the same age. It 
is advised that new ways be found to allocate the expanded labor force found 
among this group for providing some necessary services and functions. (author's 
modified)

PMID: 12338321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1980;(3):30-35; 46.

[Modernization of mortality order and its sociocultural factors, 1840-1969].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto F.

PIP: The author presents an analysis of some 565 life tables from various 
countries from 1840 to 1969. In particular, he uses multiple regression and path 
analysis to examine the relationships between improvements in mortality and 
changes in various socioeconomic factors such as education, health, and 
urbanization (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12338325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1980;(3):36-43; 47.

[Geographic variations in longevity and healthiness by age group in Japan and 
changes over the past 50 years].

[Article in Japanese]

Shigematsu T.

PIP: The author examines changes in longevity and morbidity by age groups and 
region in Japan from 1921-1925 to 1974-1976. A trend toward greater longevity in 
the urbanized areas is observed (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12338326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Demogr Afr. 1980;(34):41-6.

[A note on the four-parameter mortality model of Brass].

[Article in French]

Belhamra AA.

PMID: 12338360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Cuad Econ Soc. 1979;20(2):11-7.

[Current life tables versus a generation life table: Chile, 1920, 1930, and 
1940].

[Article in Spanish]

Kamps JE.

PMID: 12338361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Options Policy Pract. 1980;6(1-2):18-27.

Alternative population futures.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Philippines is now passing through a late demographic transitional 
period in which the death rate declines while the birth rate remains at a 
relatively high level; the population of young people under 15 rises to about 
45% of the population while proportions of people of working age and old people 
decline. In 1970, 4 of the Philippine's 12 regions had a birth rate exceeding 
40/1000; life expectancy at birth in these regions ranged from 57-64 years and 
population growth rates ranged from 2.6-4.2% annually. Also in 1970 40-49% of 
all 12 regional populations were young (under 15) and only 2-5% were old. In 
this transitional period there are a greater number of children in each 
household and thus heavier social and economic burdens occur; also the burden of 
youth dependency increases by more than 1/3. In the modern population structure, 
family burdens diminish as the average number of children surviving to age 20 
becomes identical with the number of children born and great improvements in the 
quality of life are allowed. Population projections are based on the following 
assumptions: 1) decrease in mortality, either rapid or slow, 2) increase in age 
at marriage, 3) decline in fertility will remain at 0.7% annually, and 4) 
migration trends will stay the same as during the 1960-75 period. Total 
population is expected to reach 83.8 million by 2000, a 98% increase from 1975; 
a low estimate, assuming lower fertility and nuptiality, is 64.1 million, a 52% 
increase from 1975. The urban population will more than double its size by the 
year 2000 and rural population will grow from 22-65% with the fastest urbanizing 
regions being the Central and Southern Luzon. From 1975-2000 a 3-fold increase 
is expected in the number of families in Metro Manila. By 2000 a national labor 
force of 27.5 million is expected, more than double the 1970 level, with late 
entry into the labor force and declines in participation by elderly males. The 
various regions will see lower economic activity among very young females but 
middle age female participation will be high. Early retirement will also be 
common among females.

PMID: 12338433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Demografie. 1981;23(2):97-130.

[Prolongation of human life].

[Article in Czech]

Demografie.

PIP: This special section is devoted to a conference on human longevity held in 
Smolenice, Czechoslovakia, October 3-5, 1979 (SUMMARY IN ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12338480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Popul Bull. 1982 Dec;37(4):1-39.

Black America in the 1980s.

Reid J.

PIP: This Bulletin reviews recent demographic and socioeconomic trends in the US 
black population in order to assess changes in the status of blacks relative to 
whites since publication of the 1962 edition of Gunnar Myrdal's 1944 classic "An 
American Dilemma." Blacks numbered 26.5 million in 1980, 11.7% of the total 
population, with 85% residing in urban areas compared to 71% of whites. Some 
suburbanization is now occurring among blacks but the majority remain segregated 
in central cities. In the 1970s, more blacks moved into the South than moved out 
in a reversal of the historic pattern. Blacks have shared the baby bust since 
the mid-1960s but teenage and out-of-wedlock fertility remain much higher than 
for whites as well as overall fertility (2.3 compared to 1.8 births/woman in 
1979). Black infant mortality is still double that of whites and life expectancy 
is 6 years shorter (68.3 vs. 74.4 years in 1979). Single parents (mostly 
mothers) with children now comprise 31% of black families compared to 10% for 
the general population. Divorce and separation have risen faster for blacks than 
whites. Many of these gaps are related to blacks' continuing socioeconomic 
disadvantages: median family income is 56% that of whites; the poverty rate is 
3.5 times higher; unemployment is twice as high. Occupational status has 
improved for blacks and their educational attainment is now close to that of 
whites, but these gains may be slowed and income differentials unimproved if the 
current administration's reversal of socioeconomic policy remains unchanged. 
Blacks are also affected more than other groups by the recent surge in 
immigrants who compete directly for the low-level jobs on which many blacks must 
still rely. (author's).

PMID: 12338496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 Aug:1-7.

Egypt.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs 
Population Division; United Nations. Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: There have been 10 censuses conducted in Egypt since 1882 and a national 
fertility survey in 1974-75. The Supreme Council for Population and Family 
Planning was established in 1974; Egypt was the 1st Arab country to be concerned 
with population issues. Egypt's population size in 1980 was 41,963,000 with an 
expected size of 67,230,000 in the year 2000. This indicates a growth rate of 
2.6 which is considered by the government to be too high. Population policy aims 
to reduce the rate to 1.6% by 1985 by decreasing fertility levels, increasing 
emigration, adjusting spatial distribution, and adjusting economic and social 
factors. The crude birth rate was 38.4 for 1975-80 which will be lowered by 
improved family planning programs. Between 1975-80 life expectancy was 54.8 with 
an estimated increase to 63.5 by the years 1995-2000. The UN Population 
Division's infant mortality estimate for 1980-85 is 96.7/1000. Current policy is 
to provide free basic and primary health care for rural and urban populations 
through integration of health care services with community development, 
education, and food programs. Urban population was 45.4% of the total in 1980 
and the rate of urban growth was 3.4%. The government would like to readjust the 
distribution by controlling the growth of metropolitan Cairo, channelling 
potential migrants to new desert cities, and promoting regional development. 
Other nondemographic indicators are: 1) primary school enrollment is 75% of age 
group, 2) 50% of the population is in the labor force, and 3) there are 1050 
people/physician. The government's overall approach is to modify demographic 
variables in combination with economic and social development.

PMID: 12338624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Vopr Ekon. 1980 Jul;(7):110-6.

[The demographic situation in the European countries of COMECON].

[Article in Russian]

Galetskaya R.

PIP: The author describes the current unfavorable trends in natural population 
growth in the Socialist countries of Eastern Europe, excluding the USSR. Such 
trends include a reduction in fertility, an increase in male mortality, and an 
aging of the population. The author also examines variations in life expectancy 
be sex and country, age at marriage by country, and the provision of preschool 
facilities for young children. Recent pro-natalist measures adopted in various 
countries are also examined.

PMID: 12338703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Demografie. 1982;24(2):174-86.

[Surveys].

[Article in Czech]

Czechoslovakia. Federalni Statisticky Urad.

PIP: Routine tables of vital statistics are presented, followed by brief summary 
articles illustrated with tabular and graphic material. In this issue, data are 
included on population change in Czechoslovakia, 1975-1981; live birth rate, 
mortality, and abortion rate, 1976-1981, and 12-month sliding averages; and life 
tables for Czechoslovakia and the Czech and Slovak Socialist Republics, 
1970-1979.

PMID: 12338763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1982 Jul;(163):44-68.

[An approach to the problems of elderly women].

[Article in Japanese]

Wakabayashi K.

PIP: This is a report on the problems of demographic aging in Japan, with 
particular reference to the problems faced by older women. Factors considered 
include the high life expectancy of females compared with males, higher male age 
at marriage, and the larger proportion of single women at higher ages. The 
implications of these trends are discussed, and the need to focus attention on 
the problems of aging among the female population is noted. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12338776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Ceres. 1983 Mar-Apr;16(2):23-7.

Measuring malnutrition.

Srinivasan TN.

PIP: The FAO defines undernutrition as a pathological state arising from an 
intake of an inadequate amount of food over a considerable period of time with 
reduced body weight as its principal manifestation. Implicit in this definition 
are the notions that the energy intake required to maintain the body weight of 
an individual is well defined and constant, and that the chief cause of 
undernutrition is an inadequate intake of calories. Neither of these 
implications is well established. Studies have shown that there are substantial 
variations in the intakes of individuals of the same sex, age, and activity 
patterns, even after adjusting for body weight differences. It has also been 
demonstrated that an individual's intakes vary substantially while his energy 
expenditures vary much less. Humans possess a physiological regulartory 
mechanism for controlling appetite and energy expenditure, so that variation in 
intakes, within limits, are absorbed without leading to undernutrition. Thus 
defining undernutrition as a consequence of food intakes being below a fixed 
requirement is fundamentally wrong. Data on life expectancy at birth from 
several countries show that there is no relationship between it and the 
estimated extent of undernutrition based on the FAO/WHO energy norm. More 
studies based on sound scientific methodologies are needed to establish a set of 
norms for nutritional adequacy. In designing policies for tackling the problems 
of poverty and undernutrition one can consider wide policies that affect the 
rapidity and character of economic development oriented toward such groups as 
school-age children and the landless rural population, and policies that improve 
the access of the poor to health care, education, hygiene, and sanitation. Hope 
for the rapid reduction of poverty lies in the spread of the technology of the 
green revolution and designing programs aimed at target groups so that leakage 
of benefits to nontargeted groups does not occur.

PMID: 12338813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Maandstat Bevolking. 1982 Apr;30(4):27-40.

[Population of the Netherlands by sex, age, and marital status, 1830-2000].

[Article in Dutch]

Beets Gcn.

PIP: A review of population developments in the Netherlands since 1830 is 
presented, together with high, medium, and low variants of official population 
projections to the year 2000. Variations in demographic characteristics over 
time are noted, with consideration given to the sex ratio, the dependency 
burden, marital status, life expectancy, and age distribution. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12338876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Maandstat Bevolking. 1982 May;30(5):13-40.

[Life tables, a concept of differentiation within a population].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H.

"In this article a survey is presented of the different kinds of life tables 
published by the Netherlands Central Bureau of Statistics, such as cohort life 
tables for the Netherlands, regional tables of survivors for the eleven 
provinces and life tables by marital status." The author examines some problems 
concerning these life tables, discusses the utility of the increment-decrement 
method developed by Rogers and Willekens, and introduces an extension of that 
method that takes into account transitions as well as moves. This method is used 
to develop a life table by marital status for the Netherlands. (summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12338877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1982 Jan;(161):62-9.

[The thirty-fourth abridged life tables, 1980-1981].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PMID: 12338887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Maandstat Bevolking. 1982 Nov;30(11):16-27.

[Living and deceased persons aged 100 years or over in the Netherlands, 
1830-1982].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Information on persons aged 100 years or over in the Netherlands is 
presented for the period 1830-1982. Data are included on living and deceased 
persons 100 years of age and over by sex, age, marital status, province of 
residence, and month of death; the probability of dying by sex and age, 
1950-1960 to 1970-1980; and life tables by sex and age, 1970-1980. (summary in 
ENG)

PMID: 12338893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Maandstat Bevolking. 1982 Nov;30(11):28-35.

[Life tables for the Netherlands, 1976-1980].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Life tables for the Netherlands population are presented by sex and single 
year of age for the period 1976-1980. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12338894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. UFSI Rep. 1982;(42):1-15.

Brazilian population 1982: growth, migration, race, religion.

Sanders TG.

PIP: The rate of population increase dropped to less than 2.5% annually in 
Brazil between 1970-80, but 26 million more people were born. The 1980 census 
also provides details of continuing urbanization, settlement of the farthest 
frontiers, and changes in racial composition. The direct cause of the drop in 
population increase was a drop of about 15% in the fertility rate that had been 
projected for the decade. Brazil's rate of population increase declined 
impressively despite the fact that the country continued to make progress in 
reducing mortality. The greatest improvement occurred between 1930-60. The 
mortality rate averaged 20.9/1000 between 1940-50 but dropped to 14.2/1000 
between 1950-60. Even though the crude death rate dropped 28% in the 1970-80 
decade and each child born in 1980 can expect to live 6.5 years longer than a 
child born in 1970, the life expectancy of 62 years compares with Colombia and 
El Salvador, which are much poorer countries. In Brazil as a whole the crude 
birthrate in the 15-19 age group was 66/1000 in 1980. It was 46/1000 in 1970, an 
increase of nearly 50%. In urban areas the rate increased from 37/1000 to 
57/1000 and in the countryside from 59/1000 to 89/1000. The crude birthrate went 
down slightly in Brazil from 1970-80 from 34 to 32/1000. The total fertility 
rate (TFR) dropped in the same period from 4.9ll to 3.983. The question that 
arises is whether fertility rates will increase, with women in the youngest age 
group continuing to have more children during their reproductive years. Internal 
migration plays a major role in the distribution of the population. Between 
1970-80 there were changes in the migration pattern from the previous decade. 
All the rapidly growing areas, defined as the frontier, have high fertility 
rates, but much of their growth results from migration. Between 1960-70 and 
1970-80 the most rapidly growing areas of the frontier changed. Few are aware of 
the extent to which Brazil is becoming a country of large cities. The top 10 of 
the 30 largest cities in the country all have more than 1 million inhabitants. 
Another manifestation of urbanization within states is the overall loss of 
population in the rural areas while most of the capital cities grew quite 
rapidly. Brazil is a multiracial society based on the native Amerindians, 
Europeans, Middle Easterners, the decendants of African slaves, and Orientals. A 
substantial portion of the population is racially mixed and cannot be placed 
within any of these categories. In the 1980 census the racial categories were 
the ones used in prevouse censuses: white, black, yellow, and "parda" (mixed). 
Brazil's population is predominantly white, but nearly 45% is racially mixed or 
black. Orientals are less than 1%. In regard to religion, the clearest trend is 
an increase in Protestants.

PMID: 12338986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Genus. 1982 Jan-Jun;28(1-2):185-97.

Estimation of infant and child mortality trends from reported and surviving 
children.

Ekanem II.

PIP: A major problem in the analysis of infant/child mortality trends from 
survey data on pregnancy histories is the lack of knowledge on the year of birth 
or exact age at death of reported live births. As a possible solution, the 
present study develops a life-table technique for estimating infant and child 
mortality trends using the number of surviving rather than all live births 
reported by women aged 15-49 years. The basic data for the estimation technique 
is a distribution of the children (by sex) that survived to the survey date in 
years before survey (0-4, 5-9, ...., 30-34) as well as the total reported 
livebirths per cohort of the women (15-19, 20-24, ...., 45-49) interviewed 
during the survey. Using the 2 sets of data, a distribution of all the 
livebirths in years before survey by age of mother is then derived. By relating 
the number of surviving to all live births in years before survey by age of 
mother and examining comparable cell entries, the trends in the infant/child 
mortality per female cohort are easily discerned. However, in terms of giving an 
error free picture of the changing mortality situation, there is no claim that 
the method is fool proof. The problem of omitted live births still remains and 
is likely to affect the observed trend in infant/child mortality. The data used 
in illustrating the operational mechanics of the method derives from a KAP of 
family planning survey in southwestern Nigeria. Despite slight fluctuations, the 
general tendency was a declining infant/child mortality in southwestern Nigeria 
during the period 1937 to 1971. (author's modified)

PMID: 12339002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Oxf Bull Econ Stat. 1981 Nov;43(4):287-319. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-0084.1981.mp43004001.x.

Public action and the quality of life in developing countries.

Sen A.

PIP: An attempt is made to identify the developing countries that have performed 
better than others in terms of the indicators of the so called "quality of 
life," relating this progress to the nature of these economies and to the public 
policies followed in these countries. A table presents data on life expectation 
at birth and adult literacy rates for 100 countries that had a gross national 
product per head of less than $3000 in 1977. The data have some comparability, 
and it is reasonable to use them for a rough international comparison of 
performance. 38 countries have shown distinction in 1 or both of the fields. 
There are 10 communist countries in the total list of 100, and 9 of them show 
some distinction. 8 of the 9 do this despite not having literacy figures 
reported. The entry is longevity, which is arguably a more basic indicator of 
success than poverty. Many of the communist countries are wealthier than the 
mean or median developing country. Although the indices are relative ones, the 
richer countries have typically done better, on the whole. The longevity 
performance of the communist countries is typically superior. This applies to 
the poorer group also. Some of the high growth early capitalist countries also 
have very good performance in terms of the chosen indicators (e.g., Taiwan, 
South Korea, Hong Kong, and Singapore). Taiwan and Hong Kong have the best 
overall performance record in terms of the 2 criteria for those 61 countries for 
which both sets of data are available. The countries that appear to have done 
relatively worse in terms of the indicators are those in the "middle," i.e., 
neither communist nor successfully capitalist. There are some exceptions. 
Tanzania appears to have been relatively successful in terms of the removal of 
illiteracy, and Sri Lanka has been successful in raising life expectancy. In 
examining the excellent performance of the Republic of Korea and Taiwan, the 
lesson to be learned from their experience is the great importance of employment 
expansion in poverty removal. The experiences of Sri Lanka and Tanzania are 
recounted to illustrate the positive role of state action. Like Sri Lanka's 
program of social welfare, Tanzania's literacy program shows how much can be 
achieved by a determined effort, sensibly directed toward specific goals. 
Poverty removal and related features, including longevity enhancement, is 
ultimately dependent on a wide distribution of effective entitlements. This, for 
any given level of per capita income--would tend to be reflected in the low 
level of inequality in the distribution of income.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0084.1981.mp43004001.x
PMID: 12339005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Bol Demogr. 1981 Oct-Dec;12(4):51-86.

[Recent aspects of population dynamics in urban Amazonia].

[Article in Portuguese]

Simoes CC, De Oliveira LA.

PMID: 12339024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1983 May;9(4):7-9.

Durbin-Watson statistics for model life tables.

Smith DP.

PIP: In populations with inaccurate age reporting, even very careful mortality 
surveys can produce implausible survival estimates because of age heaping, 
because of a mismatch between numerators and denominators (e.g., when deaths are 
taken from vital registration and population from a census), or because of a 
combination of the 2. The Brass logit regression enables one to smooth least 
squares values estimated from census or survey data to those of a reference life 
table, but the characteristics of human mortality are so strong, and the 
differences between related life tables so subtle, that it is often difficult to 
determine which model table gives the best fit. Standard tests, such as r 
squared by 2, t, and x squared by 2 tests, are generally not sensitive enough to 
help with our selection. The presence of a systematic pattern of errors, 
however, implies that the reference life table is not closely representative of 
the observed population (or that the data contain systematic biases). The 
Durbin-Watson test for serial correlation of errors is a powerful tool for 
detecting systematic error, and consequently, can be quite useful for 
determining the best reference table for a smoothing operation.

PMID: 12339028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Desarro Soc. 1980 Jul;(4):307-34.

[The determinants of population change in Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Castaneda T.

PIP: The author examines the causes of the rapid fertility decline that has 
occurred in Colombia since the 1960s and the relationship between demographic 
trends and socioeconomic development. Particular attention is given to changes 
in the characteristics of the population, including health, life expectancy, and 
education, and their effect on fertility. Attention is also given to the impact 
of migration and of the government's population policy. The effects of infant 
mortality, age of mother at first childbirth, mother's education, family income, 
family size preferences, marital status of mother, length of urban residence, 
female labor force participation, and age of mother are examined, and their 
relationship with fertility is analyzed.

PMID: 12339039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Econ Stat. 1983 Apr;(154):57-62.

[The demographic situation in 1982].

[Article in French]

Dinh QC, Labat J.

PIP: A brief survey of the demographic situation in France in 1982 is presented, 
primarily in the form of 10 figures. These figures include data on population 
trends, age structure, marriages, births, infant mortality, life expectancy, and 
deaths. Most of the figures cover the period 1968-1982.

PMID: 12339053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Maandstat Bevolking. 1983 Oct;31(10):22-34.

[Life tables by marital status, 1976-1980].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H.

PIP: Life tables by sex, age, and marital status are presented for the 
Netherlands for the period 1976 to 1980. The tables are constructed to take into 
account changes among the never married, married, widowed, and divorced. 
(summary in ENG)

PMID: 12339235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Popul Policy Compend. 1982 Dec:1-8.

Viet Nam.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: Attention in this discussion of Viet Nam focuses on the following: history 
of the demographic situation; the government's overall approach to population 
problems; population data systems and development planning; institutional 
arangements for the integration of population within development planning; the 
government's view of the importance of population policy in achieving 
development objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; morbidity 
and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. 
Relatively little information has been available on demographic trends in Viet 
Nam due to the absence of any major survey or census until the last few decades. 
The government increasingly has been concerned about the high rate of population 
growth and is working to change the situation through programs directed at 
fertility reduction. As part of its program for overall social and economic 
restructuring, the government seeks to give special attention to health 
problems, particularly those relating to maternal and child health and 
environmental sanitation. Population censuses in Viet Nam have been undertaken 
only in the last 2 decades, with censuses conducted in the North in 1960 and 
1974. No population census was undertaken in the South, and any population 
information available was based upon the periodic population and household 
surveys conducted alternately in different provinces, cities, and rural areas 
during 1962, 1967, 1971, and 1974. The government considers the formulation and 
implementation of population policy to be a critical variable for realizing 
national development objectives. The population of Viet Nam has grown 
considerably since the 1950s, increasing from over 30 million in 1950 to 35.4 
million in 1960 and reaching 43.1 million by 1970, according to UN estimates. 
1979 census results indicate that the population of Viet Nam had reached 52.7 
million. The current rate of growth is estimated at 2.2%. The government 
perceives the current rate of population growth as unsatisfactory because it is 
too high. The official government policy is to take steps to reduce the rate of 
population growth as rapidly as possible. All 3 demographic factors--mortality, 
fertility, and spatial distribution--are viewed as subject to direct policy 
intervention to achieve this goal. Rates of morbidity and mortality have 
declined considerably in the past few decades. The government reports a decline 
in the crude death rate from 12.2 in 1957 to 7.0 in 1980 and an increase in the 
life expectancy at birth from 34 years in 1936 to 60 in 1978. UN estimates are 
considerably higher. According to UN estimates, the infant mortality rate was 
90.3/1000 live births during 1975-80 for Viet Nam as a whole. The current 
mortality and morbidity situation is considered to be unacceptable. The 
government estimates the crude birthrate as 29.3/1000 in 1980, an unsatisfactory 
level. The government perceives the present levels and trends of immigration as 
not significant and satisfactory and the spatial distribution as inappropriate.

PMID: 12339360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Res Econ Anthropol. 1983;5:185-223.

Economic growth and population control in preindustrial Japan.

Hanley SB.

PIP: The onset of industrialization in Japan was preceded by a century and a 
half of very slow population growth, allowing incomes to increase faster than 
population. It is posited that the Japanese intentionally curtailed their 
population growth in the 18th and 19th centuries in order to maintain or improve 
their standard of living. Analysis of the population patterns and growth rates 
for 4 villages in central Japan indicates that birth rates during this period 
(Tokugawa period) were between 20-30/1000 and similar at the upper end to 
birthrates during the Meiji period, suggesting that the concept of a demographic 
transition may not be applicable to Japan at this time. Death rates were 
generally slightly below the birthrates, while life expectancy during the last 
century of the Tokugawa period was in the low 40s. The low rate of population 
growth was further slowed by famines; however, it is asserted that the number of 
deaths attributed to famines has been greatly overemphasized. Comparison of 
population trends in 18th century Tokugawa Japan show remarkable similarities 
with those in Europe after the onset of industrialization. There are also 
indications that the villagers followed customs that maximized per capita 
income. Tight social controls limited who married and at what age, leaving large 
numbers of unmarried women in the reproductive age group. Although there is no 
evidence of widespread knowledge of effective birth control measures to prevent 
conception, infanticide and abortion were widely practiced. It is suggested that 
the rapidity of Japan's economic growth following the Meiji Restoration is 
attributable to these unique demographic features.

PMID: 12339409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Popul Index. 1984 Summer;50(2):193-213.

Life table construction on the basis of two enumerations of a closed population.

Coale AJ.

The author demonstrates that an accurate detailed life table that represents 
average mortality experience between two censuses can be constructed if the 
censuses provide accurate records of the single-year age distribution of a 
closed population. This life table can begin at age zero if accurate data on the 
annual number of births during the inter-censal period are available; otherwise 
the first age in the life table must equal the duration of time between the 
censuses. "The estimation technique involves the calculation of the number of 
persons attaining each age during the period between the censuses and the 
determination of the average rate of increase in the number at each individual 
age. The success of the technique comes from the use of interpolation to 
calculate how many in each cohort attain each exact age the cohort passes 
through between the censuses." The estimation technique is tested using two 
alternative methods of interpolation. Some illustrations based on data for 
Sweden and China are included.

excerpt

PMID: 12339444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Popul Index. 1984 Summer;50(2):214-26.

Some general relationships in population dynamics.

Arthur WB, Vaupel JW.

PIP: This paper extends the Lotka system of stable population equations to any 
population. The authors present this new general system and describe its duality 
with the recent Preston-Coale system. They derive these results by considering 
the calculus of change on the surface of population density defined over age and 
time. They show that analysis of this Lexis surface leads to all the known 
fundamental relationships of the dynamics of single-region human populations, 
several interesting new relationships, and a duality between period and cohort 
life tables.

PMID: 12339445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Demografie. 1984;26(2):110-22.

[Nuptiality tables and methods for constructing them].

[Article in Czech]

Rychtarikova J.

PIP: Two methods of constructing nuptiality tables are described. One method 
involves modeling the process of marriage events in the population without 
taking other events, such as mortality of single persons, into account. The 
other method takes into account both marriage and intervening events, such as 
death, and involves the compilation of two-way tables of nuptiality. These 
methods are illustrated using data for Czechoslovakia. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 12339495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Notas Poblacion. 1983 Dec;11(33):151-64.

[Speech by Oscar Julian Bardeci, director of the Centro Latinoamericano de 
Demografia (CELADE), at the Latinamerican Regional Meeting prior to the 
International Conference on Population in recognition of the Second Meeting on 
Population by the Committee of Upper-Level Government Experts (CEGAN), Havana, 
Cuba, November 16-19, 1983].

[Article in French]

Bardeci OJ.

PIP: This work examines the relationship between population growth and economic 
development in Latin America and assesses progress in the 10 years since the 
Bucharest World Population Conference. The Latin American population increased 
from about 159 million in 1950 to 275 million in 1970 and around 325 million in 
1980. The rate of growth reached a maximum of 2.8%/year in the early 1970s and 
has now declined to about 2.3%/year. The regional growth rate is a product of 
population dynamics that differ greatly in individual countries. Crude birth 
rates declined in every country of Latin America between 1975-80, but still 
exceeded 40/1000 in 1980-85 in Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, 
and Nicaragua. Current fertility is the result of the different trajectories of 
the demographic transition in different countries. While fertility in Argentina, 
Cuba, and Uruguay underwent a slow but sustained decline that began prior to 
1960, other countries including Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, and Venezuela began 
an accelerated fertility decline in the 1960s that diffused rapidly through all 
age and social groups. Other countries have still not entered a definite phase 
of fertility decline. Mortality rates have declined appreciably in Latin America 
in the past few decades although they remain high in some countries. After the 
end of World War II and until the mid-1970s, most countries of the region 
experienced rapid economic growth coupled with profound changes in the 
productive structure. The industrial labor force grew in almost all countries 
along with urbanization, the decline of agricultural employment, and the 
increase of the tertiary sector. These and other important economic advances 
through the mid-1970s occurred despite rapid population growth, and the 
beginning of the fertility decline coincided with slowing economic growth that 
saw negative rates in 1981-82. Various studies have shown that not all 
population sectors were incorporated in the process of economic and social 
development. The proportion of the population in active age groups has increased 
dramatically, but no corresponding increase in employment opportunities has 
occurred. The informal sector has absorbed most of the excess growth, a trend 
reflected in the exclusion of a large segment of the population from the fruits 
of economic progress. Population growth and increased life expectancy have 
created demands for more retirement benefits, health and educational services, 
transportation, recreation, and housing. Nevertheless, it cannot be concluded 
that rapid population growth necessarily has negative consequences for economic 
development or social welfare. There are indications that the problem of poverty 
in Latin America could be solved if the political will to do so existed; 
obstacles to overcoming poverty are not primarily material or 
population-related. Urbanization, settlement of marginal areas, and relative 
decline of agricultural areas are 3 trends in spatial distribution of varying 
intensity and repercussions in different countries.

PMID: 12339528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Notas Poblacion. 1983 Dec;11(33):67-140.

[Population policies in Latin America: 10 years' experience].

[Article in Spanish]

United Nations. Economic Commission for Latin America.

PIP: The 1974 World Population Plan of Action (WPPA) recommended that the 
developing countries reduce their rate of population growth to 2.0% by 1985. The 
population of Latin America, which reached 357 million in 1980, grew at a rate 
of 2.41% in 1975-80; the rate for 1980-85 is estimated at 2.32%. Birth rates 
decreased in all countries; the overall rate is close to the WPPA target of 3%, 
although many countries exceed this rate. The fertility rate decreased in all 
countries except Argentina; the relative declines varied from 15% (Mexico) to 
less than 3% (Bolivia, Haiti). Global fertility rates ranged from 6 to less than 
3 children. The WPPA goal of a life expectancy of 62 years in 1985 has been 
reached. Bolivia is the only country with an infant mortality exceeding the WPPA 
level of 120/1000 live births. Migration trends include a rise in urbanization 
(from 49.6% in 1960 to 63% in 1980), an increase (from 11 to 26) in the number 
of cities with more than 1 million inhabitants, and the movement of unskilled 
workers in search of jobs. Countries having explicit population policies 
comprise 2 groups: 1) those seeking to decrease their rate of population growth, 
and 2), those who want to increase their population. The former, which comprise 
38% of the region's inhabitants, are trying to reduce fertility by promoting 
family planning through both public and private efforts. The 2nd group 
(Argentina, Bolivia, Chile), seek to increase fertility by hindering access to 
contraceptives and providing incentives for childbearing. Most Latin American 
countries, however, lack an explicit population policy; they provide family 
planning as part of their health services, but have not adopted specific 
demographic goals. Only a few countries are attempting to bring about a better 
distribution of their population. A review of the Latin American experience 
during the past decade leads to the following proposals: the integration of 
demographic policies within socioeconomic development plans, the development of 
regional plans of action within the WPPA, the adoption of population targets, 
the creation of national institutions to deal with population policy and 
implementation, the strengthening of training in population, the development of 
demographic information and research activities, and the integration of the WPPA 
with other plans of action.

PMID: 12339530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Naselenie. 1983;1(1):6-25.

[Basic issues and trends in the demographic development of Bulgaria].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Totev A.

PIP: Demographic trends in Bulgaria are outlined, with a focus on the period 
since World War II. Topics considered include changes in birth, death, and 
natural increase rates; life expectancy at birth; the aging of the population; 
urbanization and migration to the cities; development of agricultural and 
nonagricultural means of production; and industrialization. The pro-natalist 
policy of the Bulgarian government is also briefly reviewed. (summary in ENG, 
RUS)

PMID: 12339559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Asian Pac Cens Forum. 1984 May;10(4):5-10.

Regression estimates of the gross reproduction rate using moments of the female 
age distribution.

Gunasekaran S, Palmore Ja Jr.

PIP: The 2 most common regression methods for estimating fertility are those 
developed by Rele (1967) and Bogue and Palmore (1964) as revised by Palmore 
(1978); these methods are sometimes more useful than others because they employ 
the data that most censuses collect--especially the child-woman ratio by 
subnational geographic areas. Both the Rele and Palmore equations base their 
estimates on the child-woman ratio (CWR), the ratio of children ages 0-4 to 
women ages 15-49. However, in countries where children ages 0-4 are severely 
undercounted, these estimates will reflect the errors. Furthermore, the Palmore 
equations cannot be applied if information on marital status and the infant 
mortality rate is missing, or will reflect the errors if that information is 
inaccurate. India and many other countries have these data problems. The authors 
therefore present an alternate method for estimating the gross reproduction rate 
from the age distribution of females and an estimate of female life expectancy 
at birth, and apply this new method to Indian state data for 1961 and 1971. 
Finally, the results are compared to the other estimates by Rele, Bogue-Palmore 
and Premi (1974) for Indian states. Findings suggest that the authors' Model 6 
may be a useful method for estimating fertility if age data for ages 0-4 are 
suspected to be inaccurate and if data are available for estimating female life 
expectancy at birth. No assumptions are made about the stability of the 
population, but it may work better when fertility has not fluctuated greatly.

PMID: 12339581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Demogr Inf. 1984:21-48, 175.

[Factors behind global fertility development after 1950: a multivariate analysis 
of 128 countries].

[Article in German]

Lutz W.

PIP: Time series of selected socioeconomic indicators of 128 countries 
representing 97.4% of the world population in 1975 are related to gross 
reproduction rates (GRR) in various models of bivariate and multivariate 
analysis assuming linear as well as logistic functional relationships. The data 
base stems mainly from UN publications and special attention is given to China. 
For the pooling of time series and cross-sectional data, countries are grouped 
according to geographical and cultural criteria, and variables accounting for 
these regional effects are included in the equations. Special emphasis is placed 
on the development of an analytical framework trying to combine aspects of 
economic and sociological fertility analysis which account for shortterm 
economic determination as well as for changes in the system of social norms and 
in the degree to which these norms are forced on individual behavior. Among 
other findings, there is a pronounced dichotomy between more and less developed 
countries with respect to most variables but especially so with fertility. There 
are those countries with GRRs above 2.0 and below. The explanatory values of the 
models of multivariate analysis are generally very high with the RZs ranging 
from 0.73-0.97, depending on the weighting used and on the specification of the 
model. Mutlicollinearity was reduced by transformation and aggregation of 
variables. Female life expectancy at birth seems to be the single most important 
variable in explaining differential fertility; however, no direct causal link 
may be assumed; instead life expectancy can be seen as a very general indicator 
of health conditions and quality of life which in turn influence fertility 
development. Female educational status is the 2nd most important variable. 
Measures of female educational status relative to men also supports the argument 
that female social status is relevant for fertility. A positive income effect on 
fertility appears for the gross domestic product per caput in a multivariate 
setting which is not significant, however, like the proportion of the population 
in agriculture, the other economic variable that was included. Religion appears 
to be significant in explaining differential fertility, even after accounting 
for all the other variables. Concerning the importance of culture-geographical 
country groups, it appears that in Europe, North America, and China, fertility 
has the tendency to be lower than would be expected from the level of 
socioeconomic development when comparing all the countries--in the Islamic world 
and in some Central American countries, fertility tends to be higher than 
