expected from socioeconomic standing. In a longitudinal comparison, it seems 
that from 1950-75, cultural factors became increasingly important in explaining 
different national fertility levels, whereas the importance of economic 
development diminished.

PMID: 12339590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Maandstat Bevolking. 1984 Sep;32(9):40-50.

[Crude mortality quotients for the Netherlands, 1982].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj.

PIP: Mortality trends in the Netherlands in 1982 are examined using official 
data. The results show that, compared with 1976-1980, mortality at most ages 
continued to decline in 1981 and 1982. However, in 1982 male mortality for ages 
10-15 and female mortality for ages 15-20 increased significantly. Life 
expectancy at birth in 1982 was 72.7 years for men and 79.4 years for women. 
(summary in ENG)

PMID: 12339745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Soc Action. 1984 Jul-Sep;34(3):286-306.

Use-effectiveness of fertility awareness among the urban poor.

Dorairaj K.

PIP: The efficacy, the ability of Indian women to use the Billings' Ovulation 
Method, and its effectiveness in helping them to control their fertility was 
studied in a sample of urban poor living in the Delhi slums. No attempt was made 
to develop a design which would rigorously test the acceptability of the method 
because the study was concerned with: the question of the ability of poor women 
to define fertility and to avoid an unwanted pregnancy by avoiding sexual 
relations during the fertility period; and the efficacy and use-effectiveness of 
the modified method which had not been tested. The study, which extended over 36 
months, recruited a sample of 5752 eligible acceptors of fertility living in the 
urban slums. Natural family planning (NFP) use requires recurrent decision 
making at 2 stages: in the beginning of the menstrual cycle to check for signs 
of fertility; and to abstain from sexual relations in the fertility period. Age 
was an important variable in the use of sexual abstinence oriented methods and 
fertility determining methods. 192 of the acceptors were below 19 years, 1545 
between 20-24 years, 2089 between 25-29 years, 1236 between 30-34 years, 520 
between 35-39 years, and 170 between 40-44 years. Of 4380 of the 5302 acceptors 
in Treatment 1 who began to use the method after menstruation, 7 (0.16%) had a 
profuse discharge and could not distinguish the change in mucus because of 
cervicitis which was treated in cycle 2. 663 (5.4%) acceptors did not see or 
feel fertile mucus but noticed patches of infertile mucus throughout the cycle. 
419 (69.19%) of them had a family income of less than Rs300 and 25 (3.77%) were 
open cases of pulmonary tuberculosis. 16 acceptors (0.37%) noticed wetness and 
lubrication characteristic of fertile type mucus for about 2 hours, 145 (3.31%) 
for 3-4 hours, and 218 (4.98%) for nearly half a day. 867 (19.79%) had 1 day, 
406 (9.27%) 1-1/2 days, 939 (21.44%) for 2 days, 291 (6.64%) 2-1/2 days, 636 
(14.52%) for 3 days and 187 (4.27%) 3-1/2 to 4 days of fertile mucus. 1 acceptor 
had 5 days of fertile mucus. 4 acceptors failed to check regularly and therefore 
may have missed the fertile period. In Treatment 2 the initial decision to 
accept the use of the method was made by the 450 husbands before instructing 
their wives. The continuation rate of 91.86% for 12 months with a standard error 
of 0.67% was surprisingly high for a sample with low literacy and occupational 
status, low female work participation rates, small family size and a preference 
for sons with low motivation to use other methods. There were 9 unplanned 
pregnancies classified as method failures--pregnancies which occurred in 
acceptors who followed the method accoring to the instruction but got pregnant. 
The 1 year efficacy rate (life table analysis) was 99.86%. The 1-year 
use-effectiveness rate was 97.43% for the 5752 cohort. The high efficacy rate of 
the method can be due to 2 factors: the correct identification of the fertile 
mucus; and the ability to clearly distinguish between infertile and fertile 
mucus.

PMID: 12339804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Econ J Nepal. 1983 Oct-Dec;6(4):11-22.

Demographic situation and development in Nepal.

Pradhanang AL.

PIP: In Nepal economic development has not kept pace with population growth. The 
government must develop a vigorous dual program to promote economic development 
and to reduce population growth. Previous efforts to promote economic 
development, using a macrolevel approach, failed to improve the economic 
conditions for the majority of Nepal's citizens. The macrolevel approach 
required large capital outlays and resulted in an influx of foreign investors 
and the importation of inappropriate technologies from the developed countries. 
As a result, urbanization and pollution increased, and both the proportion and 
the absolute number of poor persons increased. A microlevel approach is now 
being instituted by the government, and an emphasis is being placed on meeting 
the basic needs of the poor and on promoting economic self-sufficiency. The 
country has extensive water resources which can be tapped for irrigation 
purposes. Nepal also has rich mineral deposits which should be exploited in such 
a way as to ensure that the profits accrue to the Nepalese. The country has an 
abundance of manpower resources, but there is a dearth of skilled workers. 
Unemployment, especially in rural areas, is a serious problem, and efforts 
should be made to either develop the agricultural sector or create new jobs in 
other sectors. Nepal's demographic problems include rapid population growth, the 
influx of a large number of migrants from India, and a high rural to urban 
migration rate. In 1981, the population size was 15 million, the annual growth 
rate was 2.6%, the crude birth rate was 38.5, the crude death rate was 18.4, and 
life expectancy was 47.5 years. The government is currently developing plans 1) 
to promote the development of core sectors of the economy, 2) to provide family 
planning services for the poor, 3) to meet the basic needs of rural residents in 
order to stem the flow of migration to urban areas, 4) to mobilize women to play 
an active role in the country's development and population programs, 5) to 
introduce population education into the school curriculum, 6) to promote 
economic development research, and 7) to coordinate the work of the numerous 
family planning agencies and organizations which are operating in the country. 
Many voluntary, international, foreign, and government agencies are involved in 
Nepal's economic and population endeavors. These organizations are listed.

PMID: 12339820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1983 Oct;(168):62-71.

[Abridged working life tables for Japanese men and women: 1980].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Abridged tables of working life by sex are presented for Japan in 1980. The 
tables are given for five-year age groups and by single years of age.

PMID: 12339826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Rev Mex Sociol. 1983 Jan-Mar;45(1):293-308.

[Population policy and women: the relevance of previous studies].

[Article in Spanish]

De Barbieri MT.

PIP: Although Mexico has had high rates of population growth since the 1930s 
caused by continuing high fertility but declining infant and general mortality, 
and has undergone deep structural change including declining agricultural 
production, rapid industrialization, urbanization, and increasing urban 
umemployment, it was not until the 1970s that the government began to adopt 
measures aimed at controlling population growth. Opponents of family planning 
argued that economic and social development would lead to fertility decline, but 
its proponents believed that reducing population growth would free resources for 
productive investment that otherwise would have to be used to finance services 
for the ever-growing population. At the same time that the constitution and laws 
were changed to allow or promote family planning, Mexican civil and labor laws 
were changed to provide for equality of men and women. Some background is 
necessary to understand the effect of such changes in the role and status of the 
Mexican woman. A relationship has been noted between demographic models--the 
form in which a society reproduces over a given time--and the social condition 
of women. Women have generally been subordinated to men during known history, 
but recent research indicates that their history has not been as uniform as once 
supposed. The particular form in which each society defines the 
natural-biological basis of sex roles varies; social definitions of sex and 
gender vary depending on the extension of "natural-biological" character to 
specific areas and tasks. The cases of French women in the 16th-18th centuries 
and German women under Hitler illustrate different ways in which demographic 
models and the condition of women have varied within a general framework of 
subordination of women. But when attempts are made to change a given demographic 
model, the condition of women is redefined at the level of practice as well as 
of value orientations concerning motherhood, female labor force participation, 
and the role of women in society. Moreover, the literature concerning fertility 
decline contains numerous statements by both those opposed to and in favor of 
birth control, that improving the status of women is 1 of the most effective 
means of reducing population growth. It can then be asked what changes in the 
role of women in Mexico will attend application of a fertility reduction policy. 
The crude birth rate declined from 44.2 in 1970 to 34.4 in 1980, with fertility 
falling among all age groups but especially among women over 40. The decline 
occurred primarily among urban nonmanual occupations. More research must be done 
on recent fertility change in Mexico and on related changes in the role 
orientations of men and women in different classes and life cycle stages, that 
have occurred at various stages of the population debate.

PMID: 12339829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Bull Liaison Demogr Afr. 1984 Mar-Apr;(44):24-7.

[The demographic situation in Cameroon].

[Article in French]

Njeck RA.

PIP: The population census in 1976 and the Cameroon Fertility Survey (CFS) of 
1978 have allowed the population profile of Cameroon to be better known, but 
data are still scarce on many topics. Several hypotheses were adopted for the 
elaboration of population estimates for 1983: mortality was assumed constant 
between 1976-86 despite constant improvements in the health infrastructure, 
fertility was assumed to be constant despite increases over the previous 2 
decades, net migration was assumed to be negligible, and different structures 
such as education and employment were assumed constant in the absence of data. 
The population of Cameroon was estimated at about 9,540,000 as of June 1984. 
42.8% was under 15 years of age. Children of school age (6-14 years) represented 
23.7% of the total population, and 4.9% was over 60 years of age. The 
masculinity ratio was 99.6. In some rural areas the sex ratio was under 70 
between ages 20-30. According to the 1976 census, in 1976 among men and women 
respectively, 39.5 and 15.9% were single, 55.8% and 66.8% were married, 2.1% and 
13.9% were widowed, and 2.6% and 3.4% were divorced. According to CFS data, 
among men and women in 1978, 36.0% and 13.6% were single, 58.5% and 69.6% were 
married, 2.2% and 13.5% were widowed, and 3.0% and 3.6% were divorced. CFS data 
indicated that 63% of women and 46% of men had never attended school. 39.9% of 
the population was economically active in 1976. Unemployment reached 17.2% in 
urban areas and 4.3% in rural areas. The birth rate increased from 43/1000 in 
1960-65 to 45/1000 in 1976. The mortality rate declined from 23/1000 in 1960-65 
to 20/1000 in 1976, and life expectancy at birth increased from 37.5 to 44.6 in 
the same period (47 years for women and 42.3 for men). The infant mortality rate 
was 113/1000 in 1978, and the rate of natural increase was estimated at 2.5%.

PMID: 12339834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Philipp Dev. 1983 Nov;11(6):36-44.

Philippine population projections 1980-2030.

Philippines. National Economic and Development Authority.

PMID: 12339984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Dirasat Sukkaniyah. 1984 Apr-Jun;11(69):3-18, [17-21].

Lessons of "what-if" thirty years ago in population policy.

El-khorazaty MN.

PIP: Egypt's rapid rate of population growth (3.0%/year) must be seriously 
addressed by policy makers either by making a major effort to promote family 
planning or by developing and implementing plans for providing services and 
employment for a population of massive size in the near future. If the current 
population growth rate continues into the future, population size will increase 
from its current level of 46 million to 137 million in the year 2020 and to 333 
million by 2050. Egypt currently has the 26th highest growth rate in the world 
and 9th highest population density in the world. Those who argue that population 
growth is economically beneficial claim that a large labor force is needed to 
increase production. They ignore the fact that Egypt cannot provide sufficient 
jobs nor adequate training for its current working age population. Other 
proponents argue that a large home market is necessary to obtain the economic 
benefits of scale economies in production; however, these benefits can just as 
easily be derived through increasing international trade. It is also argued that 
Egypt's excess labor force can be absorbed by the current high demand for 
workers in other Arab countries and that the remittances of these workers can 
contribute toward the economic development of Egypt. Reliance on foreign 
employment is not a practical longterm solution. If the external demand for 
workers declines, Egypt will be confronted with an even more serious 
unemployment problem. If the government had heeded the advice of those who 
advocated the adoption of growth reduction polcies in 1953, many of Egypt's 
current development problems could have been minimized. If the average growth 
rate had been reduced to 1.5% over the past 30 years: 1) existing food stocks 
would be sufficient to eliminate the current pattern of substandard diets among 
a large segment of the population; 2) the need to rely on imported grain would 
now be minimal or completely unnecessary; 3) the number of persons/physician 
would be 900 rather than 1200, and the number of persons/hospital bed would be 
370 rather than 500; 4) the infant mortality rate would be lower than its 
present 132 level, and life expectancy would be greater than its current 55 year 
level; and 5) current educational facilities could accommodate a 85% primary 
school enrollment rate instead of the current 65% enrollment rate. Egypt had a 
population policy and a family planning program; however, the contraceptive 
prevalence rate remains low. What is lacking is a total commitment strategy. At 
the present time, population programs have a moderate priority, and population 
policies are pursued half-heartedly. Population planning must be integrated into 
all aspects of development planning, and all relevant government agencies must 
assume responsibility for promoting the country's population policies. A total 
commitment strategy will ensure that in the future Egypt has a healthy, 
educated, and productive population rather than a massive population with a high 
level of unmet needs.

PMID: 12340161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Maandstat Bevolking. 1985 Apr;33(4):44-56.

[Life tables for the Netherlands, 1982-1983 and 1983].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H, Van Dipten J.

PIP: Life tables based on official data for the Netherlands are presented. The 
tables are provided by sex and single year of age. Abridged life tables by sex 
are also included. The data concern the years 1979 to 1983. The main reasons for 
the observed increase in life expectancy are improvements in age-specific 
mortality rates for both sexes around the age of 65. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12340177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Comp Soc Res. 1984;7:197-229.

Cohort marriage and divorce in five Western countries.

Schoen R, Baj J.

An analysis of cohort trends in family formation and dissolution in five Western 
countries during the twentieth century is presented. The countries concerned are 
the United States, England and Wales, Belgium, Sweden, and Switzerland. "To 
obtain the indicators of family formation and dissolution used in this study, 
male and female cohort marital status life tables were constructed in each of 
the five countries for single year cohorts born between the years 1888 and 
1945." Consideration is also given to the impact of changes in mortality. Data 
are from official sources. This is a revised version of a paper originally 
presented at the 1983 Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America 
(see Population Index, Vol. 49, No. 3, Fall 1983, pp. 384-5).

excerpt

PMID: 12340259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Comp Soc Res. 1984;7:259-86.

Mortality patterns in developed countries.

Manton KG.

The implications of recent demographic trends in developed countries are 
considered. The emphasis is on the increase in life expectancy, and particularly 
in the rate of growth of the numbers of the very old (those aged 85 and over). 
"To evaluate the impact of recent mortality reductions on the social security 
and health service systems of developed countries [the author analyzes] the 
mortality conditions of 11 developed countries over the period 1950 to 1978." 
The countries concerned are the United States, Canada, Japan, Norway, Sweden, 
Denmark, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of 
Germany, and France. "The results of [the] analyses show that major increases in 
life expectancy have occurred at advanced ages for females and that the 
cross-country differences in the cause of death structure indicate that advances 
were achieved through a variety of mechanisms. Thus, it appears that no single 
uniform model of biological aging will currently explain cause specific 
mortality trends in countries with historically high life expectancies. This 
implies that further mortality reductions are possible in these countries by 
achieving cause specific mortality reductions observed to have occurred in 
another country." This is a revised version of a paper originally presented at 
the 1983 Annual Meeting of the Population Association of America (see Population 
Index, Vol. 49, No. 3, Fall 1983, p. 413).

excerpt

PMID: 12340261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Maandstat Bevolking. 1985 Jul;33(7):48-60.

[Population forecasts 1984: hypotheses on mortality].

[Article in Dutch]

Beets Gcn, Prins Cjm.

PIP: The authors describe the mortality assumptions on which the 1984 official 
population forecasts for the Netherlands are based. The main conclusions are 
that the negative and positive influences on mortality will approximately 
balance out and that future death rates will continue to decrease at a moderate 
level. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12340274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Popul Index. 1985 Spring;51(1):3-6.

A comment on Coale's life table construction.

Kim YJ.

PIP: In a recent issue of Population Index, Coale (1984) described a method of 
deriving a life table for an intercensal period separated by T years from 2 
census single-year age distributions of a closed population. This note examines 
the formula used by Coale and points out that although it works well for all 
practical purposes, the formula with his new growth rate is an approximation, 
not an identity as is assumed by Coale. The Coale formula involves more steps 
than the usual method of estmating mortality and yields less accurate results. 
Coale's formula is explained. In general, in the case under consideration, if a 
larger cohort is followed by a smaller cohort, the survival probability 
calculated by the formula exceeds unity, whereas if a smaller cohort is followed 
by a larger cohort, the calculated survival probability becomes less than unity. 
The size of the relative cohorts determines the degree of error in the 
calculated probability. The formula does not give the survival probability of 
unity as it should if it were an identity. The formula in the continuous time is 
an identity. Feeney's alternative method presented in Coale's Computational 
Appendix 3 produces an exact life table without using any formula. Feeney's 
method is, however, less accurate than the usual method, given the same data, 
because it omits some information. The Coale procedure losses its usefulness in 
that it requires extra data manipulation, only to yield less accurate results.

PMID: 12340289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Popul Index. 1985 Spring;51(1):6-9.

A reply to Kim's comment.

Coale AJ.

PIP: This reply criticizes Kim's note as incorrectly characterizing the 
essential feature of the method proposed for life table construction. The method 
suggested for estimating N(a), the number attaining age 2 during the intercensal 
period, is to make a separate estimate of the contribution to N (a) made by each 
single-year cohort that attains 'a' during the period between censuses. Each 
cohort estimate is constructed by interpolation, utilizing as data the recorded 
number in the relevant single-year cohorts in the 2 censuses. 2 methods of 
interpolation were proposed. 1 is an iterative procedure that constructs a 
preliminary life table by linear interpolation for each cohort and then derives 
more refined interpolation factors from this preliminary life table. The other 
procedure derives interpolation factors on the assumption that the proportionate 
distribution of deaths by age as each cohort moves from the earlier to the later 
census date is the same as the proportionate distribution of deaths by age over 
the same age range in a model life table. The advantage of the proposed 
procedure is that it supplies better estimates of N (a) than do alternative 
methods. The author concedes that a life table calculated from accurately 
recorded deaths and an accurately enumerated population would ordinarily be 
superior. However, he also notes that in the absence of registered deaths data, 
there is no precise enough conventional method to yield accurate values of 
average intercensal single-year age-specific mortality rates from nothing more 
than 2 accurate censuses 11 years apart. A common procedure for calculating life 
expectation at a very advanced age is to calculate the reciprocal of the death 
rate among persons over the age in question.

PMID: 12340290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Probl Econ. 1984 Oct 24;(1895):26-32.

[World population and development: an important change in perspective].

[Article in French]

Vallin J.

PIP: The International Population Conference in Mexico City was much less 
controversial than the World Population Conference in Bucharest 10 years 
previously, in part because the message of Bucharest was widely accepted and in 
part because of changes that occurred in the demographic and economic situations 
in the succeeding decade. The UN medium population projection for 1985 has been 
proved quite accurate; it is not as alarming as the high projection but still 
represents a doubling of world population in less than 40 years. The control of 
fertility upon which the medium projection was predicated is well underway. The 
movement from high to low rates of fertility and mortality began in the 18th 
century in the industrial countries and lasted about 1 1/2 centuries during 
which the population surplus was dispersed throughout the world, especially in 
North and South America. The 2nd phase of movement from high to low rates 
currently underway in the developing countries has produced a far greater 
population increase. The proportion of the population in the developed areas of 
Europe, North America, the USSR, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand will decline 
from about 1/3 of the 2.5 billion world population of 1950 to 1/4 of the 3.7 
billion of 1985, to 1/5 of the 4.8 billion of 2000, and probably 1/7 of the 10 
billion when world population stabilizes at the end of the next century. The 
growth rates of developing countries are not homogeneous; the populations of 
China and India have roughly doubled in the past 35 years while that of Latin 
America has multiplied by 2 1/2. The population of Africa more than doubled in 
35 years and will almost triple by 2025. The number of countries with over 50 
million inhabitants, 9 in 1950, will increase from 19 in 1985 to 32 in 2025. The 
process of urbanization is almost complete in the industrialized countries, with 
about 75% of the population urban in 1985, but urban populations will continue 
to grow rapidly in the developing countries as rural migration is added to 
natural increase. The number of cities with 10 million inhabitants has increased 
from 2 to 13 between 1950 and 1985, and is expected to reach 25 by 2000, with 
Mexico City, Sao Paulo, and Shanghai the world's largest cities. The peak rate 
of world population growth was reached in the 1960s, with annual increases of 
2.4%. In 1980-85 in the developed and developing worlds respectively the rates 
of population growth were .7% and 2.0%/year; total fertility rates were 2.05 and 
4.2, and the life expectancies at birth were 72.4 and 57.0. Considerable 
variations occurred in individual countries. Annual rates of growth in 1980-85 
were 2.4% in Latin America, 3.0% in Africa, 2.2% in South Asia and 1.2% in East 
Asia. Today only Iran among high fertility countries pursues a pronatalist 
policy. Since Bucharest, it has become evident to developing and developed 
countries alike that population control and economic development must go hand in 
hand.

PMID: 12340345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Popul Today. 1985 Sep;13(9):12.

Spotlight: Peru.

Yacher L.

PIP: This article highlights population statistics from Peru, the 3rd largest 
country in Latin America. The population in 1985 has been estimated at 19.7 
million. In 1982, the birth rate was 35/1000 and the mortality rate was 10/1000. 
Infant mortality stood at 99/1000 live births and life expectancy at birth was 
59 years. 41% of Peru's population is under 15 years of age, and only 4% is 65 
years of age or older. The country's total fertility rate is 5.2 births/woman. 
Only 0.4% of the population is foreign born. Peru is highly urbanized, and 65% 
of the country's total population growth in 1981 occurred in its cities. 1 in 3 
Peruvians resides in the capital city of Lima. The 2 largest racial groups are 
mestizos and whites (53%) and Indians (46%). 21% of the population is 
illiterate. 40.7% of the labor force is employed in agriculture; however, only 
15% of the national income is derived from agriculture. The GNP per capita was 
US$1040 in 1983. The country's economy is in serious trouble at present, with an 
annual inflation rate of 250% and a foreign debt of US$13.5 billion.

PMID: 12340368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Soc Stat Paris. 1985;126(2):63-76.

[The search for a general law of mortality].

[Article in French]

Damiani P.

PIP: The author attempts to identify a general law of the probability of human 
death by age since conception. In order to achieve this, a physiological time is 
defined that is different from observed time. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 12340387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Popul Policy Compend. 1984 Mar:1-8.

Ethiopia.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This discussion of Ethiopia reviews the history of the country's 
demographic situation and reports on the government's overall approach to 
population problems; the population data systems and development planning; 
institutional arrangements for the integration of population with development 
planning; the government's view of the importance of population policy in 
realizing development objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; 
morbidity and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial 
distribution. Ethiopia is 1 of the few remaining countries in the world that has 
never conducted a population census. The prevailing demographic data come from 
sample surveys, none of which had a complete national coverage. UN estimates 
indicate a crude birthrate of 51.8/1000 for the 1950s, with a slight decline to 
49.6/1000 by 1970-75. The crude death rate was estimated to have dropped from 
30.6/1000 in the early 1950s to 23.2/1000 in the early 1970s. Infant mortality 
is reported to have declined from 208/1000 in the early 1950s to 155/1000 during 
1970-75. and life expectancy increased from 32.9 years in 1950-55 to 40.9 in 
1970-75. Historically, Ethiopia is not known to have experienced any serious 
migration problems except for the massive exodus of refugees into neighboring 
countries in recent years due to continuous military operations. The government 
has no explicit policy to modify fertility or population growth, although in 
recent years it has acknowledged that these rates are too high. The most 
pressing concern is the improvement of the health situation through a primary 
health care approach. Institutional arrangements in the area of population 
remain at an early stage of development. The government explicitly recognizes 
the interrelationships between population and socioeconomic development. The 
Central Statistical Office estimated the population size at 24.1 million in 
January 1970, and the annual rate of population growth at 2.2% for the early 
1970s. The government considers the current rate of population growth not 
satisfactory as it is too high. This is a marked departure from the previous 
perception which regarded the growth rate as satisfactory. The government 
considers the level and trends of morbidity and mortality to be unacceptable. It 
also considers the current level of fertility as not satisfactory because it is 
too high. The government regards levels and trends of immigration to be not 
significant and thus satisfactory. Ethiopia is basically an agrarian country, 
but in the last 30 years the urban population has been growing rapidly. The 
government considers the trends in the population distribution within the 
national territory to be inappropriate. Concern covers the rapid population 
growth in Addis Ababa and Asmara and the population pressure in the northern 
plateau.

PMID: 12340412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Cah Que Demogr. 1984 Oct;13(2):215-45.

[Description of a marital mobility model and its application to Quebec].

[Article in French]

Lavoie C.

"The marital mobility model allows for the simultaneous study of the formation 
and break-up of couples in a given cohort. The model is equally suited for 
longitudinal and for period analysis. Its essential feature is the construction 
of a multiple status life table that deals either with initial status changes or 
with successive ones. Preliminary results obtained for Quebec indicate that, in 
recent generations, individuals marry less and divorce more; at the same time 
the prevalence of cohabitation and the number of births out of wedlock both 
continue to increase." (summary in ENG, SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12340424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Etud Togol Popul. 1985;(9):22.

[The Courbage-Fargues method of indirect measure of mortality. Adequacy or 
inadequacy in the case of Togo in 1971?].

[Article in French]

Gbenyon KK.

PIP: An indirect method of mortality estimation developed by Y. Courbage and P. 
Fargues is evaluated using incomplete data from a demographic survey carried out 
in Togo in 1971. The author concludes that the method gives good results in this 
case. The method is used to estimate life expectancy at birth to be 40.51 for 
men and 43.12 for women.

PMID: 12340438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Etud Togol Popul. 1985;(9):22 p..

[The Courbage-Fargues method of indirect measurement of mortality: adequacy and 
inadequacy of the case of Togo in 1971].

[Article in French]

Kuakuvi GK.

PIP: This study tests the validity of an indirect method of estimating mortality 
from inaccurate data from demographic investigations conducted in Togo in 1971. 
The method yields good results for Togo where life expectancy at birth is 
estimated at 40.51 years for males and 43.12 years for females. The article 
responds to the request of participants of the Colloquim of Abidjan and then 
corrects the mortality level of Togo in 1971 derived from the biased demographic 
investigation in Togo in 1971. OCDE tables were used to support estimates of 
mortality. A hypothesis of the method was that the deaths of the last 12 months 
are underreported in a constant proportion. A 2nd hypothesis was that the 
mortality of the country is related to a mortality pattern according to age. 
This method of Courbage-Fargues has produced satisfactory results. Certain 
demographers believe that the undercount rates are probably differentials 
according to age, particularly among those who die in the 1st few years of life. 
Others believe that knowledge of deaths that occur in the later years lacks 
certainty. Mortality data in Africa are not adequate enough to utilize as bases 
for estimates. For Togo, in particular, the application of other indirect 
measures of mortality is hoped for to allow comparisons.

PMID: 12340439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Futuribles. 1984 Jul-Aug;(79):69-81.

[Social inequality in the face of death].

[Article in French]

Parant A.

PIP: Data from official and other published sources are analyzed in this 
examination of differential mortality in France. The measurement of mortality in 
France by socio-professional category is first discussed. Probabilities of dying 
for males aged 35 to 60 and life expectancy at age 35 for the years 1975-1980 
are presented separately according to occupational category. Information is also 
included concerning female mortality rates by occupation and male mortality by 
cause and occupation. Life expectancy and suicide figures for France in 1976 are 
compared with those for selected other European countries.

PMID: 12340491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Dev Forum. 1986 Jan-Feb;14(1):3.

With firm resolve: family planning in China.

Laquian AA.

PIP: China has accelerated its family planning efforts. In 1979 a national 
policy of 1 child per couple was launched and has been vigorously pursued. Thus 
far, China's program has had remarkable success. The rate of natural increase 
was nearly halved in 10 years, from 23.4/1000 in 1972 to 12/1000 in 1982. The 
average annual population growth rate fell from 2.37% in 1970-75 to 1.17% in 
1980-85. Yet, the crisis is far from over. The total population numbers 1.063 
billion. The national target is to keep it to 1.2 billion by the end of the 
century, an increase of less than 20%. On July 1, 1982, after 3 years of 
intensive preparation, more than 5 million enumerators began the biggest and 1 
of the most accurate censuses ever undertaken. The perception of growth which 
produced the 1 child policy was heightened by the results, which showed China to 
be the world's 1st "demographic billionaire." The census made it possible to 
prepare population monographs for each of the 29 provinces and autonomous 
regions of China. The information gathered has stimulated further development of 
skills in survey design and analysis, data processing, and publication of 
population information. 3 new training centers have been opened to supply the 
demographers and statisticians for further census work. The key to China's 
population strategy is voluntary family planning practice based on accurate 
information. The State Family Planning Commission and family planning 
organizations at national and local levels have mobilized hundreds of thousands 
of community-based workers in massive family planning publicity and education 
campaigns. In a country where only 2% of the population has television, 
face-to-face communication is the norm. An extensive network of trained 
community-level workers is the basis of China's famous primary health care and 
preventive medicine system which has been so important in improving the 
country's health and extending life expectancy from under 40 years in 1950-55 to 
over 65 in 1980-85. The approach links well with the family planning philosophy. 
Long before an active family planning program was begun, maternal and child 
health care had included family planning as 1 means of assuring the health of 
mothers and children. So vast is China and so great its need that the UN Fund 
for Population (UNFPA) assistance for family planning is concentrated either on 
pilot schemes or on a "training of trainers" approach. In the 1st phase of UNFPA 
assistance, 8 maternal and children's hospitals were selected for UNFPA support 
in advanced care and training. The biggest share of UNFPA assistance to China in 
its 2nd phase goes to contraceptive development and production.

PMID: 12340547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1985 Oct;(176):1-17.

[Re-estimation of the population by age and sex and vital rates in postwar 
Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Atoh M, Itoh T, Takahashi S, Ishikawa A.

"In this study Japanese population by age and sex was re-estimated for the 
postwar years and both fertility and mortality rates were also re-estimated 
based on these revised populations." Using the cohort component method, the 
authors analyze data from seven censuses conducted between 1950 and 1980, 
adjusting for international migration. The revised population figures are then 
used to re-estimate age- and sex-specific death probabilities and to derive life 
table functions for the postwar years. Problems with the reliability of the 
census data are emphasized, in particular the under-enumeration of the total 
population and of specific subgroups, and the bias in offical birthrate 
estimates arising from the procedure for estimating mid-year populations. 
(summary in ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12340548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Maandstat Bevolking. 1986 Apr;34(4):28-38.

[Life tables for the Netherlands, 1980-1984].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas Rfj, Van Der Hoeven Ltj.

PIP: An analysis of the official life tables for the Netherlands for the period 
1980-1984 is presented. It is noted that for almost all ages, the mortality 
quotients for females are lower than that for males, with the greatest 
differences at ages 16.5-27.5 and 55.5-74.5 years. A bibliography of 
publications on life tables in the Netherlands since 1840 is included. (summary 
in ENG)

PMID: 12340632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Child Trop. 1985;(159):1-56.

Women's lives, mothers' health.

Chauliac M, Masse-raimbault AM.

PIP: This document dealing with women's lives and the health of mothers 
identifies factors conditioning the health and nutritional status of women and 
girls (life expectancy at birth, maternal mortality rate, and the birthrate); 
considers nutritional requirements of pregnant and lactating women, weight gain 
during preganncy, mothers' age and number of children and interbirth interval, 
maternal nutritional status and breastfeeding, anemia, work and women's health, 
pregnancy in adolescents, abortion, the growth of small girls and its effect on 
future pregnancies, and sexual mutilations; and reports on actions aimed at 
improving the health of women as well as health problems facing rural women. The 
3 key concepts of this reflection on women's lives are: women's health should be 
taken into account as well as children's health; the development of the whole 
human being should be respected, implying ongoing surveillance of the health 
status of women and of their children; and the overall living conditions of 
women within the family and society must be analyzed at the different phases of 
their life, so as to encourage integrated actions rather than various 
uncoordinated efforts. Women's health status, like the health status of 
everyone, depends on a multitude of socioeconomic and sanitational factors. A 
figure illustrates several of the many interrelations between the various 
factors which influence the nutritional status of all individuals. Women of 
childbearing age are at greater risk than other population groups, due to their 
reproductive function and their ability to nurse children: pregnancy, like 
lactation, generates metabolic changes and increases nutritional needs. Delivery 
itself presents a series of risks for the woman's health, and only regular 
surveillance of pregnancy may prevent many of these. A woman's health status 
and, most of all her nutritional status during pregnancy and delivery, condition 
her future health and ability to assume her many tasks as well as the 
development of her child. As far as health and development are concerned, the 
mother-child couple cannot be separated. More than in any other individual, 
there is dynamics to women's nutritional status, since it may have negative 
consequences for the following generation. A few examples of desirable actions 
aimed at promoting women's health are discussed. These actions fall into the 
categories of education, surveillance of pregnant women, food supplementation, 
planned parenthood, technology, and legislation.

PMID: 12340715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Oct:1-7.

Solomon Islands.

United Nations Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population DivisionUnited Nations. Department of International Economic and 
Social Affairs. Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population 
Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This discussion of the Solomon Islands focuses on the following: the 
history of the demographic situation; the government's overall approach to 
population problems; population data systems and development planning; 
institutional arrangements for the integration of population within development 
planning; the government's view of the importance of population policy in 
realizing development objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; 
mortality and morbidity; fertility; international migration; and spatial 
distribution. Declining mortality and relatively constant fertility rates have 
led to a steady rise in the rate of natural increase. As reported in 1972, the 
average annual growth rate was 2.7% between 1960-70. This increased to 3.4% 
between 1970-76. The total population, according to census figures, grew from 
94,000 in 1931 to 124,000 in 1959, to 160,000 in 1970, and to almost 197,000 in 
1976. The birthrate in 1969 was 36.1/1000, the crude death rate 13/1000, and the 
infant mortality rate 52.4/1000. By the mid-1970s, the crude birthrate had 
increased to 49/1000; the death rate had remained unchanged. The government 
considers a slower rate of population growth necessary for people to benefit 
from development initiatives, and hopes this will be achieved through greater 
emphasis on family planning. The first 3 censuses (in 1931, 1949, and 1959) were 
considered relatively incomplete. The 1st scientifically conducted census was 
taken in 1970, followed by the 1976 census. The next census is planned for June 
1986. The Solomon Islands does not as yet have a complete system of vital 
statistics. Registration is particularly deficient regarding deaths and 
marriages. The most recent development plan, the Solomon Islands National 
Development Plan 1980-84, intends to promote rural development to allow more 
people to benefit from the country's development. No specific institution exists 
for integrating population within development planning. In the 1980-84 
development plan, the government set a population growth rate target of 3% per 
annum. The government perceives the current rates of mortality to be 
unacceptable and is particularly concerned about the low levels of female life 
expectancy. Special emphasis is to be placed on preventive medicine and 
rehabilitation.

PMID: 12340725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Popul Policy Compend. 1985 Mar:1-6.

Swaziland.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division; United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: This discussion of Swaziland covers the following: the history of the 
country's demographic situation; the government's overall approach to population 
problems; population data systems and development planning; institutional 
arrangements for the integration of population within development planning; the 
government's view of the importance of population policy in achieving 
development objectives; population size, growth, and natural increase; morbidity 
and mortality; fertility; international migration; and spatial distribution. 
Swaziland's 1st organized population count in 1898 estimated the total African 
population of Swaziland to be 43,512. The most recent population census (1976) 
enumerated a total population of 519,959. This represents a 32% increase over 
the 1966 census figure, or an average annual rate of growth of 2.8% between 
1966-76. The government does not have an explicit policy to modify fertility or 
population growth, yet it has explicitly recognized that current levels of 
fertility and natural increase are very high and has included family planning 
programs within public health services as a means of bringing about a gradual 
decline in fertility over the longer term. Over the past decade, a number of 
surveys of varying scope have been carried out in Swaziland. The government's 
current policy seeks to resolve population-related problems by means of 
socioeconomic development, including attempts to slow rural-urban migration 
through expanded rural development and to provide greater employment 
opportunities through the promotion of labor-intensive projects. The crude death 
rate in Swaziland was 17.2/1000 population during 1980-85. Life expectancy at 
birth was estimated to be 47 years for females and 44 years for males. Infant 
mortality was estimate to be around 140/1000 live births. The government 
considers the country's current health conditions and levels of mortality to be 
unacceptable because they are too high and has identified the 0-5 age group as 
the target group of particular policy concern. During 1975-80 the crude 
birthrate was estimated to be 47.6/1000 population and the total fertility rate 
to be 6.5 births per woman. The government considers levels and trends of 
fertility to be unsatisfactory because they are too high. The government 
considers the current pattern of population distribution in Swaziland to be 
inappropriate, particularly with regard to achieving national development 
objectives.

PMID: 12340741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Studi Emigr. 1986 Jun-Sep;23(82-83):251-8.

[A study of the demographic behavior of the foreign population: methodological 
aspects and foreigners' experiences].

[Article in Italian]

Giacomello P.

PIP: The author discusses two categories of demographic measurement that can be 
used to study the distinguishing characteristics of a country's foreign 
population. The first category pertains to data that can be obtained from 
censuses concerning structural characteristics such as age, marital status, 
legitimacy, infant mortality, and place of birth. The second category concerns 
data that can be derived from various other sources and includes such items as 
life expectancy and general fertility rate. The author also examines the 
usefulness of these methods for studying the foreign population in Italy given 
experiences with the methods used in other countries.

PMID: 12340779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1985 Dec;5(2):3-18.

[Estimation of birth rates for Korea during 1970-1980 through Preston's 
technique].

[Article in Korean]

Byun YC.

PIP: This paper estimates Korean birth rates during the periods 1970-1975 and 
1975-1980. The ressults are compared to existing estimates constructed by 
several researchers. The parameter representing adult mortality is also 
estimated and through this, life tables for females aged 5 and above are 
constructed. Data are taken from the 1970, 1975, and 1980 population census 
reports on age disttibution. The important advantage of this method is that it 
provides fairly robust estimates of birth rates in the presence of various forms 
of error in the age distribution usually found in developing countries. The 
estimated Korean total birth rate is 27.7 for 1970-1975, and 23.3 for 1975-1980 
per thousand poulation. Comparing these results with other estimates, this 
method provides quite reasonable results on birth rates. Life expectancy at age 
5 of 64 for 1970-1975, and 64.7 for 1975-1980 are obtained--a little less than 
that of official values published by the National Bureau of Statistics 
Econonomic Planning Board. This is due to high mortality rates of females aged 5 
and younger. This affects the value of p* significantly, a parameter of 
mortality in the paper.

PMID: 12340811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Math Sociol. 1985;11:245-63. doi: 10.1080/0022250X.1985.9989991.

Nonparametric inference procedures for multistate life table analysis.

Dow MM.

PIP: Recent generalizations of the classical single state life table procedures 
to the multistate case provide the means to analyze simultaneously the mobility 
and mortality experience of 1 or more cohorts. This paper examines fairly 
general nonparametric combinatorial matrix procedures, known as quadratic 
assignment, as an analysis technic of various transitional patterns commonly 
generated by cohorts over the life cycle course. To some degree, the output from 
a multistate life table analysis suggests inference procedures. In his 
discussion of multstate life table construction features, the author focuses on 
the matrix formulation of the problem. He then presents several examples of the 
proposed nonparametric procedures. Data for the mobility and life expectancies 
at birth matrices come from the 458 member Cayo Santiago rhesus monkey colony. 
The author's matrix combinatorial approach to hypotheses testing may prove to be 
a useful inferential strategy in several multidimensional demographic areas.

DOI: 10.1080/0022250X.1985.9989991
PMID: 12340865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Janasamkhya. 1986 Jun;4(1):1-9.

Assessing the effect of mortality change in an age group on the expectation of 
life at birth.

Chandrasekaran C.

"This article compares four procedures in assessing the effect of the change in 
mortality conditions in an age group between two periods on the expectation of 
life at birth. The differences and similarities are pointed out. The outcome of 
applying the different approaches on the difference in the expectation of life 
at birth of the life tables of Sweden for the periods 1901-10 and 1936-40 is 
also discussed."

excerpt

PMID: 12341002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Janasamkhya. 1986 Jun;4(1):65-79.

Working life tables, Bangladesh 1981.

Matin KA.

PIP: Data from the 1981 Bangladesh Population Census were used to construct life 
tables for working men and women. Bangladesh has a dependency burden of 109 
dependents to 100 economically active population. Labor force participation 
rates in 1981 were 74.1/100 population aged 10 years and over for males and 
4.3/100 population aged 10 years and over for females. The age-specific economic 
activity rates provided the essential link in translating life table data to 
working life table data. It was calculated that a newborn Bangladesh male had a 
working life expectancy of 37.8 years and an overall life expectancy of 50.0 
years; working life expectancy peaks at 44.2 years at 10 years of age. A newborn 
female has a working life expectancy of 1.8 years and an overall life expectancy 
of 49.0 years; a maximum working life expectancy of 2.4 years is obtained at 10 
years of age. In the period 1962-81, male working life expectancy registered a 
slight decline at all ages, while female working life expectancy increased by 
about 6 months for ages up to 30 years. Mortality accounts for a loss of about 
10% of gross years of active life in the 10-69-year goups and 20% in the 
10-79-year age group. The male working life expectancy values for Bangladesh in 
1981 correspond well with those found in India in 1971, Pakistan in 1978, and 
Sri Lanka in 1971. However, there is wide divergency in terms of female working 
life expectancy values: such rates were significantly higher in Sri Lanka and 
India than in Bangladesh up to the age of 30 years, after which point there was 
little divergence.

PMID: 12341006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Asia Pac Popul J. 1987 Mar;2(1):3-20.

Socio-economic development and mortality patterns and trends in Malaysia.

Tan Poo Chang, Kwok Kwan Kit, Tan Boon Ann, Shyamala Nagaraj, Tey Nai Peng, Siti 
