Norazah Zulkifli.

PIP: Morality in Peninsular Malaysia has reached a level that is quite similar 
to that prevailing in the low mortality countries. This article systematically 
documents changes in mortality levels and differentials in Malaysia over time 
and relates these to changes in development indicators and health-related 
policies. Remedial measures undertaken by the authorities including the 
expansion of hospital and health services into the estates, together with a 
comprehensive malaria-eradication program, improvements in sanitation laws, and 
increased provision of public utilities and education, resulted in beriberi 
being eliminated and the incidence of malaria, typhus, and smallpox being 
greatly reduced by the time of World War II. The gain in life expectancy over 
the period of 1957-1979 was greatest for the Malay, the most significant period 
being 1957-1967, which saw the introduction of rural health programs. The infant 
mortality rate and the neonatal and post-neonatal rates declined substantially 
for all ethnic groups in Peninsular Malaysia for the same time period. Although 
the lower infant mortality of the Chinese can be explained by their advantageous 
socioeconomic position the same reason cannot explain the lower decline in 
infant mortality levels of the Indians. Much still needs to be done to narrow, 
if not to eliminate, the existing mortality differentials of different groups in 
the country. Overall, the quality of life of the general population can be 
further enhanced by reducing the high mortality level of disadvantaged groups.

PMID: 12341034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Netw Res Triangle Park N C. 1986 Summer;7(4):1-5.

The misunderstood pill: thirty years of testing and development have reduced 
pill's major, minor side effects.

United States. Centers for Disease Control CDC. Advisory Committee on 
Immunization Practices.

PIP: Many users of oral contraceptives (OCs) and potential users misunderstand 
the risks and benefits of OCs. A recent poll in the US revealed that 3 out of 4 
women thought the pill carried substantial health risks. Nearly 2/3 of the women 
surveyed believe using OCs is at least as risky as childbearing. Family Health 
International (FHI) recently conducted a world survey of perceptions of OCs. It 
shows that women in many other countries share US womens negative image of the 
pill. Women believe in pill-related dangers scientists have never even 
suspected, much less proven, such as an increased risk of stomach cancer. Yet, 
many women, especially women in developing countries, are unaware of problems 
such as cardiovascular disease that are related to OC use, and they are ignorant 
of the proven health benefits of OCs, such as protection against ovarian and 
endometrial cancer. Despite the persistence of negative perceptions of the pill, 
research conducted over the past 30 years has shown that the pill is safe for 
the great majority of women and, in fact, provides significant health benefits 
for many users. With the contraceptive effectiveness of the pill established 
through the early tests, drug companies began steadily lowering the hormone 
dosages. By 1983, more than half of the OCs sold in the US contained less than 
0.5 mg estrogen. Many of the combination OCs now sold have only 0.2 to 0.4 mg 
estrogen. Eventually, pill researchers learned that OCs containing only 
progestogen, even in comparatively small doses, also could effectively prevent 
pregnancy, though not as effectively as pills containing estrogen. The first 
progestogen-only pills received US Food and Drug Administration approval in 
1973. Continued research on OCs shows that the increased risks of cardiovascular 
diseases actually were almost entirely confined to specific groups women who 
were over 35 or who both were over 30 and smoked. For the great majority of 
women, studies showed, the risk of cardiovascular disease was increased little 
by OC use. FHI's recent study of long-term OC risks and benefits, based on 
previous epidemiological research, demonstrates that OC use has no net effect on 
life expectancy for most women. Among younger women who do not smoke, life 
expectancy is slightly increased by OC use, the study shows. This is because OCs 
provide protection against ovarian and endometrial cancer. In an effort to 
improve compliance with recommended OC procedures, FHI has initiated a series of 
studies which will examine the interaction between OC side effects, the 
information and support given OC users by family planning providers, and OC 
compliance.

PMID: 12341093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Renkou Yanjiu. 1985 Mar 29;(2):31-5.

[On model life tables].

[Article in Chinese]

You Y.

PIP: A comparative study and detailed analysis of various standard model life 
tables are presented. After examining the development of various methods by 
which demographic factors and weighting techniques are applied, the reasons for 
the existence of vast discrepancies among the model life tables for various 
world regions are discussed. It is argued that the 1955 UN model life tables and 
others developed in Europe and in the United States theoretically apply to 
Western populations, thus the so-called Chilean, Far East, Southern Asia, and 
Latin American models, all of which are extensions of Western models, are not 
totally applicable. Nonetheless, it is concluded that the UN's model population 
tables 90, 95, and 100 (published in 1955) closely approximate China's 1982 
census statistics for life expectancy.

PMID: 12341117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Renkou Yanjiu. 1985 Mar 29;(2):36-40.

[Economic estimate and comparative study of the population of Wuxi in 1980].

[Article in Chinese]

Luo S.

PIP: In 1980, an economic survey was conducted in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China, 
in which the members of the general population were asked various questions 
related to their past and current employment status. The purpose of this survey 
was to provide information in the following areas: average life expectancy of 
Wuxi residents (72.32 years); ratio of average number of years of employment; 
difference between the number of years of employment among Wuxi residents 
compared with Hong Kong residents (including relevant factors); expected number 
of years of employment for a life expectancy of 72.32 years; total goods and 
services consumed in an average lifetime vs. Expected income over an average 
lifetime; age at which Wuxi residents begin to produce more than they consume; 
and the age of highest economic productivity. Survey and statistical methods and 
interpretation of data are explained at length. The information provided by this 
economic survey should prove useful for economic planning, as well as providing 
baseline figures for future comparative studies.

PMID: 12341118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Renkou Yanjiu. 1985 May 29;(3):16-9.

[Population quality must be improved to carry out the strategic goal of economic 
construction].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng J.

PIP: The poor population quality (quality of life of the population as a whole) 
of Zhejiang Province in southeast China and the imperative need for its 
improvement are the subject of this report. Its 40 million inhabitants have a 
life expectancy of 69 years. For every 1000 people there is only 1 doctor and 
1.7 hospital beds. These figures are lower for all the other southeastern 
provinces. According to the 1982 census, there are 47 college graduates, 517 
high school graduates, and 1779 middle school graduates for every 10,000 people. 
The quality of life of the population can be improved through increased 
productivity because there is a direct relationship between the 2. Although 
China already enjoys a high level of productivity, it is up to the government to 
concentrate its efforts on the quality of productivity through reform. China's 
political structure, its rules, regulations and conventions have contributed to 
making the economy backward. A substantial change within the social system is 
imperative to put China's economy on a more progressive footing. Moreover, 
efforts in family planning must continue. The current population growth rate is 
not commensurate with the economic growth rate. As population control and 
population quality are interrelated, a smaller population would mean a higher 
standard of living. The report concludes that in order to fulfill the strategic 
goal of economic construction quality is a task that cannot be postponed, since 
it concerns Zhejiang Province's economic projections, as well as the quality of 
the new labor force that will be in place by then.

PMID: 12341123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Statistica. 1985 Apr-Jun;45(2):251-64.

[Concerning differences in male and female life expectancy in Italy].

[Article in Italian]

Ge Rondi C.

PIP: This citation corrects the information on the author's name as provided in 
52:10167. The author assesses methods of estimating mortality rates of males and 
females in Italy during the nineteenth century. Of the methods discussed, 
Arriaga's index of relative change is considered the most suitable. Two methods 
for determining the contribution of mortality changes in different age groups to 
total change in life expectancy are outlined. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND FRE)

PMID: 12341192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Demogr Afr. 1985 Jul-Dec;(48-49):8-18.

[Population of Comoros].

[Article in French]

Tallon F.

PIP: The 3 islands administered by the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros had a 
total population of 335,150 in the 1980 census. The population grew at an annual 
rate of 3.3% after the 1966 census, but growth rates were slower on Grand 
Comoros than on the other 2 islands. 54.5% of the population lived in villages 
of less than 2000 inhabitants. There is not much rural-urban migration because 
of the lack of employment opportunities in urban areas. The age structure of 
Comoros is poorly known, and ages ending in 5 and especially in 0 are greatly 
overrepresented in the census. The proportion under age 15 has increased from 
44.0% in 1966 to 47.2% in 1980. 96% of men and 98% of women marry. The average 
age at 1st marriage is 20.0 for women and 26.8 for men. The proportion of 
polygamous men has decreased from 24.9% in 1966 to 19.1% in 1980. Polygamy is 
more common among older men. Marriage is unstable because of the ease of 
divorce. 48.8% of persons aged 12 and over are illiterate. The active population 
numbered 99,463 in 1980, or 29.7% of the total. 73.6% of the active population 
was male, but female activity rates were probably underestimated. 13.3% of the 
population was unemployed. 65.3% of the active population was engaged in 
agriculture, 5.7% in fishing, and 4.1% in construction. The economic development 
of the 3 islands is uneven; Anjouan seems to be the poorest and least developed. 
Because of the poor quality of age and other data in the census, the method of 
Brass was used to estimate fertility levels. The resulting fertility rates per 
1000 women were 134.5 for ages 15-19, 327.4 for those 20-24, 337.9 for those 
25-29, 276.6 for those 30-34, 178.8 for those 35-39, 80.6 for those 40-44, and 
74.7 for those 45-49. The general fertility rate was 219/1000, the crude birth 
rate was 46.0/1000, the total fertility rate was 7.05, and the crude 
reproduction rate was 3.41. Indirect methods yielded estimates for males, 
females, and the total population respectively of 16.4, 15.1, and 15.7 for 
general mortality, 132.4, 110.4, and 127.1 for infant mortality, and 54.2, 53.9, 
and 54.0 for life expectancy. Migration from 1 island to another is increasing, 
but is still relatively unimportant. Short-term population projections indicate 
total populations of 395,410 in 1985 and 466,277 in 1990. Long-term demographic 
prospects are bleak because of the young age structure and lack of employment 
opportunities. A population policy with a family planning component should be 
put in place if future economic and demographic disaster is to be averted.

PMID: 12341246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. JOICFP Rev. 1987 Jul;13:28-9.

Population in Africa: trends, problems and policies.

United Nations Fund for Population Activities UNFPA.

PIP: The population of Africa is expected to increase from 553 million in 1985 
to 877 million by the year 2000 and to reach 1.64 billion by 2025 before 
eventually stabilizing at 2.2 billion in the 22nd century. Further population 
growth will reflect a combination of further improvements in mortality the 
continuation of moderately high fertility rates, and a young age structure. 
Another crucial aspect of Africa's demography is overurbanization (42% of the 
population will be in urban areas by 2000) without concomitant economic growth, 
social change, or industrial development. These demographic trends manifest 
themselves in 4 problems: 1) fetal wastage, infant deaths, child losses, 
shortened life expectancy, and a lack of motivation to live better; 2) frequent 
childbirth, combined with poverty, malnutrition, ill health, and an incapacity 
to provide for one's children; 3) social, political, and economic chaos 
resulting from overcrowding, unemployment, the spread of slums and squatters, 
inadequate infrastructure, and the breakdown of social services caused by 
overurbanization; and 4) inadequate land resources, and thus food insufficiency, 
resulting from deforestation, environmental stress, and resource constraints. 
The following policies are needed to respond to these problems: 1) an integrated 
package of policies and programs to improve infant, child, and maternal health; 
2) an integrated package of measures to induce rapid reductions in desired 
family size and to make family planning services available; 3) a comprehensive 
program to improve the status, role, and participation of women in development 
activities; 4) an integrated approach to population and development that takes 
into account spatial and territorial planning; and 5) a program to develop 
manpower capacities through comprehensive training and transfer of technology 
and skills.

PMID: 12341262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Int Demogr. 1987 Mar;6(3):1-7.

Beijing--ten years after Mao: country profile.

Rusoff D.

PIP: An examination of demographic trends in Beijing--China's capital and the 
center of its political and cultural life--can yield important information on 
future consumer trends for the country as a whole. Age and income are the most 
influential demographic characteristics in determining what people will buy. As 
a result of economic reforms under Deng Xiaoping, per capita income available 
for living expenses in urban China almost doubled between 1978 and 1984, from 
316 to 608 yuan. By the year 2000, the purchase of commodities in urban staff 
and worker households is projected to account for 88% of total expenditures, 
with noncommodity expenditures accounting for the remaining 12%. The average age 
of 1st marriage and 1st childbirth is gradually rising, while the interval 
between marriage and 1st birth is decreasing. The fertility rate in Beijing was 
1.6 births/woman in 1981 and 91% of all births in 1983 were 1st births. Despite 
its one-child policy and drastically reduced fertility rates, Beijing's 
population will continue to grow until the large numbers of young people born 
during the high fertility period of the 1950s and 1960s pass out of their 
childbearing years. Given a life expectancy of 78 years for men and 80 years for 
women and an average of 1.5 births/woman, the proportion of those over age 65 
years in China is projected to stand at 29% by 2040. This trend toward 
demographic aging suggests a need to revamp social policies to alleviate the 
stress placed on Chinese families and increase financial aid to the elderly. 
There have been proposals to adopt a norm that would allow couples 2 children 
spaced 8-10 years apart. The average household size in Beijing in 1982 was 3.9 
persons, with 2.3 jobholders/household. Between 1981 and 1984, the percentage of 
urban households having annual per capita incomes above 600 yuan rose from 18% 
to 49%.

PMID: 12341268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Ber Raumforsch Raumplan. 1986;30(1-3):7-14.

[Population forecast for the Austrian provinces from 1984 until 2015].

[Article in German]

Findl P.

PIP: Population projections for Austria and its provinces up to the year 2015 
are presented, based on age and sex data for January 1, 1984. Tables and text 
provide information on total fertility, life expectancy at birth, migration, 
mortality, changes in age and sex structure, the retired population, the working 
population, youth, and sex ratio. Vienna and selected provinces are discussed 
separately. Some data for earlier years are also given, and general demographic 
trends are outlined.

PMID: 12341320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Rev Stat. 1987 Jul;36(7):34-42.

[The evolution of Romania's population and its numerical components in the last 
century].

[Article in Romanian]

Lungu G.

PIP: Population trends in Romania from 1886 to 1986 are reviewed. The available 
data on total population, birth and death rates, and natural increase are 
recalculated for the territory included in contemporary Romania. Data are also 
provided on life expectancy and on fertility and marriage rates for the period 
1966-1985. Reasons for the observed increase in population are discussed.

PMID: 12341322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Stat Szle. 1987;65(8-9):737-49; 837-58.

[Population trends in Hungary after the year 2000, Parts 1 and 2].

[Article in Hungarian]

Hablicsek L, Monigl I.

PIP: Some long-term population trends concerning Hungary are explored in this 
two-part article. Population projections up to the year 2021 are first 
presented. The authors consider how a population decline can be avoided and 
conclude that both an increase in life expectancy and in the number of children 
families have are required. The need for the development of an effective 
population policy by the end of the present century is stressed. The authors 
also consider the concept of the demographic transition in the light of 
Hungarian experience and suggest some theoretical modifications to it.

PMID: 12341324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. China Popul Newsl. 1986 Aug;3(4):4-7.

Developing undertakings for the aged of China.

Tao L.

PIP: Due to declining fertility and mortality and an increasing life expectancy, 
the proportion of the aged population is increasing in China. In 1982, the aged 
constituted 7.6% of the entire population; by 2000 this percentage will reach 
11%. In 1982, the China National Committee of World Assembly on Aging was set up 
to develop the thousand-year-old tradition of respecting, loving, and supporting 
the elderly so that old people may be provided with proper support, recreation, 
medical service, learning facilities, and the chance of serving society. The 
tasks of the Committee are to 1) investigate major aging issues, 2) make an 
overall plan, 3) coordinate the departments and organizations concerned, 4) 
supervise and inspect the work done, 5) participate in international and 
regional specialized conferences on aging, and 6) promote activities involving 
multilateral and bilateral aid and cooperation, from foreign countries. In the 
past few years, many provincial and municipal communities, mass organizations, 
and old-folks universities have been set up to serve the needs of the elderly. 
The undertakings for the aged are run in China's characteristic way, that is, by 
the joint efforts of the state, the collective, and the individual. The 
childless solitary and widowed elderly in urban areas are either supported by 
social welfare institutions and homes for the aged or taken care of by 
neighborhood committees. In rural areas, old folks usually participate in some 
kind of manual labor for the collective; they usually live on their own earnings 
or are supported by their children. A retirement system with monthly pensions 
operates in some towns and villages with more developed economies.

PMID: 12341379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1984 Dec;18(2):107-18.

The pattern of family formation in Sudan.

Khalifa M.

PIP: This paper examines birth intervals in Sudan using life table analysis. The 
data used for this study is based on the Sudan Fertility Survey conducted in 
1979. The life table approach adopted here divides the family formation process 
into a series of events and studies the transition from each parity to the next. 
The report indicates approximately 85% of women proceed to the next parity 
regardless of age or parity. The tempo of fertility is almost constant 
regardless of parity. However, older women wait longer before proceeding to 
their next birth mainly due to biological factors as well as some fertility 
control at higher parity. Since 1973, women in Sudan have started to use family 
planning. The effect of this practice is not significant as far as the quantity 
of fertility is concerned. It is only used for the purpose of spacing births and 
has no effect on reducing the number of total births per woman. This attitude 
continues until the woman reaches parity 7; afterward family planning may be 
used to limit future births.

PMID: 12341382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1984 Dec;18(2):119-50.

Levels of mortality and relative contribution by socio-economic and health 
related factors in Arab countries.

El-shalakani M.

PIP: All Arab countries are concerned with devising socioeconomic policies and 
programs to aid in reducing levels of mortality. This study consists of 2 
sections. The 1st reviews the mortality statistics and organization of census 
surveys in Arab countries. The 2nd section deals with the relationship between 
the mortality levels and 8 specific socioeconomic and health related indicators 
in these countries. These indicators include the total fertility rate; urban 
population rate; per capita gross national product; adult literacy rate; daily 
per capita calorie supply (obtained by dividing the calorie equivalent of food 
supply by the population); the number of hospital beds per 10,000 persons; the 
number of physicians per 100,000 residents; and the % of population with access 
to safe water. The basic data was compiled in 1980 and includes 20 Arab 
countries grouped into 4 geographic categories. The report indicates that 
economic growth in Arab countries has resulted in medical advances in the 
technology of disease control and prevention. Financial resources have 
significantly reduced mortality in these countries.

PMID: 12341383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1984 Dec;18(2):87-107.

The Kuwaiti mortality rates and some comparisons.

Abaza AK.

PIP: Abaza presents abridged Kuwaiti life tables to aid in estimating the future 
need for Kuwaiti social security and old age pensions. He uses the Chiang method 
of constructing Kuwaiti mortality rates and presents them in graphs and tables. 
According to these tables, the life expectancy at birth for 1965-1970 was 61.75 
years for Kuwaiti males and 61.11 years for females. During 1975-1980, life 
expectancy rose to 66.39 years for males and 71.99 years for females. The 
possibility of dying is high in infancy, falls to a minimum from ages 10-14, 
rises slowly toward middle life, and rises rapidly with increasing age. Abaza 
links the high infant mortality with the low educational level of Kuwaiti 
mothers and the practice of allowing uneducated domestic servants to feed and 
care for Kuwaiti children. He also feels that the presence of servants may 
contribute to a mother's uncontrolled fertility and subsequent short birth 
intervals, leading ultimately to higher infant mortality. Abaza speculates that 
the large number of Bedouins who have higher than average fertility and 
mortality rates may be responsible for the high overall Kuwaiti infant mortality 
rate. It is noted that mortality is lower for females than males at almost all 
ages; this is attributed to greater male exposure to hazardous environments, 
accidents, and violence, and to female genetic superiority.

PMID: 12341384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Spec Publ Am Philos Soc. 1987;(44):85-95.

Demographic effects of scientific progress.

Coale AJ.

PIP: This essay refutes the commonly held view that the demographic transition 
in the west occurred as a result of scientific progress, but admits that the 
drop in mortality in the developing world since 1950 is largely due to 
technology. Human populations have grown at about 0.05% annually for 10,000 
years, until about 1750, when the rate grew to 0.5%, then to 0.7% after 1900, 
and to 2% in the 1960s. Looking at life expectancy, which was about 35 years in 
the 18th century and 40 in the 19th in Europe, as well as advances in treatment 
and prevention of the major killer diseases, it is apparent that death rates 
fell substantially well before any effective therapy or immunization was 
developed. This can be demonstrated for tuberculosis and smallpox. Probably, 
life-style changes such as wearing washable cotton clothing, bathing, and better 
nutrition contributed to longer life. Advances in the understanding of contagion 
and infection contributed toward eradication of typhoid and cholera after 1850. 
Hence, public health projects such as sewage and water systems, better housing 
and working conditions, helped stop typhoid and diarrhea and to prolong life 
generally. The decline in fertility documented in the west also took place 
before any scientific birth control methods were available: only folk methods 
such as withdrawal, and social methods such as later marriage were responsible. 
In the less developed world, death rates began to plummet after 1950, largely 
due to immunization, mosquito control and other advances in health technology. 
It is hoped that contraceptive technology, with methods unrelated to sexual 
behavior, will reduce births in parallel. In conclusion, although science may 
not have been responsible in detail for the demographic transition in the west, 
scientific ideas prompted new attitudes about social change and secularism, 
which may have played a role in lowering birth rates.

PMID: 12341386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Demografie. 1987;29(1):46-54.

[Differences of life expectancy between men and women in selected countries].

[Article in Czech]

Vilgocka M.

PIP: This study deals with the development of differences in life expectancy at 
birth between men and women since the 1950s. With the help of model curves and 
standardized differences in the medium life span of 65 years, the author tries 
to estimate the share of biological and social conditioning of sex differentials 
in life expectancy for 23 developed countries. The growth of different in life 
expectancy between men and women was originally caused by mortality 
discrepancies up to 65 years old, stabilizing at values around 3 years. In most 
developed countries, these differences have declined. Most recently, the growth 
of differences in life span was caused by mortality differentials after 65 years 
of age; these now oscillate around 4 years. The total difference obviously will 
not permanently exceed the limit of 8 years. The biological conditioning of 
differential mortality between men and women is probably very low and does not 
cause more than 1 year of discrepancy.

PMID: 12341429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Cah Que Demogr. 1987 Apr;16(1):99-118.

[Evolution of Quebec's mortality rates, by cause of death].

[Article in French]

Mao Y, Fortier L, Wigle D.

"The evolution of mortality in Quebec over the past three decades is reviewed. 
Life expectancies and potential years of life lost from birth to age 75 are 
calculated. Also, interprovincial comparisons of mortality are included. 
Quebec's mortality experience, in comparison to the other provinces, is poor. 
Causes of death that are of particular concern are suicide and lung cancer. 
Mortality rates for cerebrovascular diseases, stomach cancer and kidney diseases 
have markedly declined, for males as well as females." (SUMMARY IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12341459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1987 Jul;(183):1-22.

[[Development of new relational models for the age pattern of mortality]].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaneko R.

After a discussion of the Brass logit model of age-specific mortality, the 
author proposes five new relational models of the age pattern of mortality. 
These models and related mathematical extensions of the conventional logit model 
are assessed as to "their applicability as model life table systems and 
projection tools of age patterns of mortality in time series. The results 
indicate that [the] relational models serve as useful demographic tools for 
estimation and projection besides [their] original use in analytical studies of 
aging and mortality processes." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12341597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Stat Szle. 1988 Jan;66(1):40-76.

[Factor decomposition of the differences in life expectancy: a Hungarian 
method].

[Article in Hungarian]

Valkovics E.

"The author shows the Hungarian method of decomposition according to factors 
causing differences in life expectancies. He uses abridged mortality tables by 
causes of death of Hungary's male and female population in 1972-1973 and 
1982....[The author explains that] the significant increase in the difference 
between males' and females' average life expectancies at birth can be explained 
primarily with the ever increasing differences in life expectancies of the 
victims of various causes of death shifted in favour of females." (SUMMARY IN 
ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12341634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Stat Szle. 1988 Jan;66(1):5-14.

[Hungary's retirement life table, 1984].

[Article in Hungarian]

Klinger A.

"Multivariate tables [for Hungary] present mortality and retirement of [the 
economically] active male and female subpopulations as well as the mortality 
order of [the] retired population postulating the probabilities valid for 1984. 
The author points out large differences in mortality order by sexes at the age 
of retirement and among pensioners. The computation not only shows the present 
situation but also provides a basis for the reform of the pension system...." 
(SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12341635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1987 Oct;(184):84-94.

[Abridged working life tables for the Japanese men and women: 1985].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishikawa A.

PIP: Abridged working life tables are presented for men and women in Japan for 
the year 1985.

PMID: 12341711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Math Popul Stud. 1988;1(1):101-21, 124. doi: 10.1080/08898488809525262.

A Markov chain for calculating the durability of marriage.

Keyfitz N.

"The usual Markov model of marriage permits informative experiments on the 
effect of alterations in the transition rules. It can tell, for example, what 
difference it would make to the durability of marriage if there was no divorce 
and the other transitions were as observed. This is in addition to the capacity 
of the usual model to find the effect of small changes in the transition rates. 
Canadian data for 1970-1982 permit comparisons over time, and show among other 
things not only that married men live longer than single, but that the 
difference is increasing; the increase in the 'marriage bonus' over time also 
appears for women." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898488809525262
PMID: 12341713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Front Lines. 1987 Sep;27(8):8-9, 11.

USAID in Nepal.

Weiss D.

PIP: The USAID's mission in Nepal is to assist development until the people can 
sustain their own needs: although the US contributes only 5% of donor aid, USAID 
coordinates donor efforts. The mission's theme is to emphasize agricultural 
productivity, conserve natural resources, promote the private sector and expand 
access to health, education and family planning. Nepal, a mountainous country 
between India and Tibet, has 16 million people growing at 2.5% annually, and a 
life expectancy of only 51 years. Only 20% of the land is arable, the Kathmandu 
valley and the Terai strip bordering India. Some of the objectives include 
getting new seed varieties into cultivation, using manure and compost, and 
building access roads into the rural areas. Rice and wheat yields have tripled 
in the '80s relative to the yields achieved in 1970. Other ongoing projects 
include reforestation, irrigation and watershed management. Integrated health 
and family planning clinics have been established so that more than 50% of the 
population is no more than a half day's walk from a health post. The Nepal 
Fertility Study of 1976 found that only 2.3% of married women were using modern 
contraceptives. Now the Contraceptive Retail Sales Private Company Ltd., a 
social marketing company started with USAID help, reports that the contraceptive 
use rate is now 15%. Some of the other health targets are control of malaria, 
smallpox, tuberculosis, leprosy, acute respiratory infections, and malnutrition. 
A related goal is raising the literacy rate for women from the current 12% 
level. General education goals are primary education teacher training and adult 
literacy. A few descriptive details about living on the Nepal mission are 
appended.

PMID: 12341727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Popul Today. 1988 Feb;16(2):12.

Spotlight: Kuwait.

Patriquin W.

PIP: The population of Kuwait was estimated at 1.9 million in 1987, with a 3.2% 
rate of natural increase. The total fertility rate stood at 4.4, with 34 
births/1000 population and 3 death/1000. The infant mortality rate is 19/1000, 
and life expectancy at birth is 72 years. The gross natural product per capita 
is US$14,270. As a result of the large number of resident foreign workers, 
native Kuwaitis comprise only 43% of the population. The majority of foreign 
workers are Arabs from neighboring states. During the last 3 decades, Kuwait's 
population has increased by 950%, largely through migration. Another consequence 
of migration is Kuwait's sex ratio of 132 males per 100 females. Kuwait's 
extremely low crude death rate, 3/1000, reflects a fertile, young population 
benefiting from sudden, large-scale health expenditures over the past 2 decades. 
Huge revenues from petroleum have enabled the government to establish a highly 
developed welfare system, with free education and no personal income taxes. 
Literacy currently stands at 71%. No family planning programs exist, although 
contraceptive supplies are available commercially. The government considers the 
current rate of population growth to be too slow to meet the requirements of an 
expanding economy and would like to be able to reduce the number of foreign 
workers in the country.

PMID: 12341735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Popul Today. 1988 Mar;16(3):12.

Spotlight: Malaysia.

Patriquin W.

PIP: Focus is on Malaysia -- its population and land area, its total fertility 
rate and mortality rate, economic development, contraceptive usage, and 
population policy. In 1987 Malaysia's population was estimated to be 16.1 
million with births 31/1000 population and deaths 7/1000 population. The rate of 
natural increase is 2.4%, the total fertility rate 3.9 children/woman, and the 
infant mortality rate 30/1000 live births. Ethnically, Malaysia is made up of 
several distinct groups. Indigenous Malays are the most numerous -- about 50% of 
the population. Their unique characteristics include that they are Moslem, 
rural, and usually of lower economic status. Chinese make up the 2nd largest 
group of Malaysians, nearly 1/3 of the population. This group is active in 
trade, business, and finance and possesses considerable economic power. About 
10% of the population is of Indian descent. Malaysia has experienced much 
economic growth. Traditional exports grew in volume and value during the 1970; 
the petroleum sector expanded so rapidly it accounts for 1/4 of all exports. One 
reason for Malaysia's rapid economic growth is the government's promotion of 
industrialization and foreign investment. According to the 1982 contraceptive 
prevalence survey, 42% of currently married women 15-44 years were using 
contraception. The government considers the current rate of national increase to 
be satisfactory, but in 1984 it adopted a population policy to more than 
quadruple its population in 2100 to 70 million. It intends to accomplish this by 
instituting pronatalist incentives to help the fall in the national growth rate. 
The government's rationale for more population growth is that a larger domestic 
population could better support industrial growth that otherwise might be 
stymied by "protectionist policies practiced by developed countries." Incentives 
to encourage fertility include income-tax deductions and maternity benefits for 
women who have up to 5 children.

PMID: 12341834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Politiq Popul. 1986 Jul;2(3):73-86.

[Updating of the tables from the study by J. C. Chasteland. Population policies 
in the third world eight years after Bucharest: hopes and realities].

[Article in French]

Pelet J.

PIP: The author provides updates for 1985 for eight tables published in an 
earlier study by Jean-Claude Chasteland concerning perceptions and realities of 
population dynamics in developing countries. Information is presented in tabular 
form on perceived and observed rates of population growth, population policies, 
quantitative goals for fertility reduction, official government positions on 
observed life expectancies and fertility rates, access to family planning, and 
government viewpoints concerning population distribution and migration. Some of 
the data are provided for regions of the world and some for selected developing 
countries.

PMID: 12341849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Demogr Afr. 1986 Mar-Apr;(50):61-8.

[The activities of the Demographic Research Unit of the University of Benin].

[Article in French]

Locoh T, Nomenyo A.

PIP: The Demographic Research Unit of the University of Benin was created in 
1975, to contribute to a better knowledge of population in Togo and Africa. It 
now has 5 researchers, good administrative support, and a team of trained 
interviewers. The unit publishes textbooks and gives demography training to 
teachers (in primary and secondary schools) and to students (in Togo as well as 
West Africa), creating knowledgeable interlocuters in various sectors of 
society; integrates student these into its own researchs, and contributs to new 
vocational research. Its Documentation Center collects, processes, and 
circulates information on population and development (2300 books and pamphlets), 
computerizes information on Togolese demographic documents, and publishes 
reports on the unit's research in 2 publications: Togolese Studies on 
Population" (10 issues), and "Togolese Population." The unit is conducting 
research on 1) fertility and family in Togo and black Africa: in progress is a 4 
year study on "the coming of the 1st child in Lome sample size=2500 women), and 
a study on teenagers' fertility; 2) population and aspects of economic 
development in Togo: completed in 1985 was a study on the utilization of 
demographic data for plans, and a study, in 2 rural areas (N=1000), of the 
relation between high birth rate and migration to the cities; 3) spatial 
redistribution and migration movements in Togo: in progress is a study of the 
results of the 1981 census, and surveys in 6 areas highly concerned by 
migration; 4) mortality and morbidity: studies on life expectancy in 1970 (men 
40.2 years, women 43.), on infant death in Lome (1980-1982), of pediatric 
consultations of to 5 years children in several hospitals; 5) prospects for 
population: a population of 4,836,000 is expected in 2006 if there is a fast 
decrease in birth-rate, and of 6,214,000 with a slow increase.

PMID: 12341941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Renkou Yanjiu. 1987 Jan 29;(1):22-9.

[[Estimate of indicators of life tables in 1953-1964 and 1964-1982]].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhai Z.

PIP: The variable-r method is applied to data from the 1953, 1964, and 1982 
censuses of China to produce life tables for 1953-1964 and 1964-1982. The tables 
are used to discuss a selection of mortality indicators, including infant 
mortality, age-specific mortality, and life expectancy by sex.

PMID: 12341950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1988 Jul;(187):57-66.

[[Marriage tables for Japanese couples: 1975-1985]].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaneko T, Mita F.

PIP: Marriage tables are presented for Japan for the years 1975, 1980, and 1985.

PMID: 12341961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. New Int. 1987 Oct;(176):32.

Benin: country profile.

Gabriel A.

PIP: Since 1972, Benin has had an official Marxist-Leninist ideology; however, 
centralized state control contributed to economic stagnation and a search for 
capital investment. A special section of the World Bank is advising the 
Government of Benin on public sector reform and privatization, and an agreement 
with the International Monetary Fund seems likely. At present, 65% of Benin's 
labor force is engaged in subsistence agriculture, most of which is 
collectivized, and the gross national product per capita is US$260. The main 
cash crops are seed cotton and palm oil kernels used in soap and margarine. 
While women occupy key trade positions in the south of Benin, they are very 
oppressed in the north. Benin has a population of 4 million. The infant 
mortality rate is 115/1000 lives births and life expectancy is 43 years. Only 
21% of the population has access to clean water. 40% of men, compared to just 
17% of women, are literate.

PMID: 12341978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Popul Bull UN. 1988;(25):51-64.

Sex differentials in survivorship in the developing world: levels, regional 
patterns and demographic determinants.

United Nations. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. 
Population Division.

PIP: This study analyses patterns of sex differentials in survivorship in less 
developed countries (LDCs) and compares the findings to the historical (1850s to 
present) experience of the more developed world (MDCs). On average, the sex 
differential in life expectancy at birth (SDLE) increases by about 1/5 of a 
year, in favor of females, for each 1 year improvement in life expectancy at 
birth. At current average levels of life expectancy in the LDCs (59 years), the 
SDLE is estimated to be 3.2 years. Even after controlling for differences in 
mortality level, strong regional variation exists in sex differentials. 
Within-continent variations in the Americas and Asia are mainly due to 
differences in female life expectancy. Within Africa, however, the variation in 
sex differentials is due to a combination of low female life expectancy and high 
male life expectancy. Within-continent variation is due to mortality 
differentials among all age groups. However, different age groups play greater 
or lesser roles within the different continents. At high mortality levels, SDLEs 
on average are smaller in the LDCs than those historically found in the MDCs, 
but by the later stage of the mortality transition, the SDLEs in LDCs are, on 
average, similar to those found in the MDCs. The widening of the female-male 
differential in life expectancy at birth does not appear to be a concomitant 
consequence of mortality decline, and may, in fact, prove to be a post 2nd World 
War phenomenon related to post-War changes in areas of personal behavior, 
societal modernization and economic structure. That women live longer than men 
is one of those few demographic facts known to lay persons and demographers 
alike. Only in a few countries, concentrated in South Asia and Northern Africa, 
do women, on average, die at earlier ages than men and in most of those 
countries this female disadvantage is minimal by the time of marriage and has 
disappeared by the end of the childbearing period. Size of female advantage in 
life expectancy varies among population and is systematically associated with 
geographical region and overall mortality levels and within societies to 
interrelationships with habits of culture and with modernization. Of less 
importance but also associated is genetic traits and ecology of the land.

PMID: 12342008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Popul Today. 1988 May;16(5):12.

Spotlight: Afghanistan.

Felt JC.

PIP: Afghanistan is a landlocked country approximately the size of Texas with an 
estimated population of 14.5 million. The fertility level (6.7 children per 
women) is estimated to be very high, as is the mortality rate (183 infant 
deaths/1,000 live births). Demographic data sources are scarce, and current 
estimates are based on a 1972-1974 series of surveys and a 1979 census which 
enumerated only 55-60% of the population. The government of Afghanistan, a 
Marxist state, has asked for international aid to improve data collection and 
analysis. Compounding the problems of accurate data collection is the state of 
civil war that has existed in Afghanistan since the Marxist coup in in 1978 and 
Soviet occupation in 1979. The war impelled the emigration of 5 million 
refugees, who live in camps in neighboring Pakistan and Iran. Although the 
population decline that resulted from this emigration is significant, the 
repatriation of the refugees will play a role in determining the population 
dynamics for the next decade, as will the withdrawal of Soviet troops -- 
expected in 1990. Because of Afghanistan's central-Asia location, there is a 
unique ethnic and linguistic mixture of tribes. The largest group is the 
Pushtus, who make up 40% of the population. Afghan Persian and Pushtu are the 
dominant languages, and 98% of all Afghans are Moslem. The economy is largely 
agricultural and half the cultivated land must be irrigated. 85% of the 
population live in rural areas and another 2.5 million are nomads. The low 
status of women and female children, low levels of health care, and high 
fertility contribute to the lower life expectancy of females over males. 
Although the government supports contraceptive services, such services are 
inadequate, and sterilization is illegal. The withdrawal of Soviet troops and 
the possible end to civil war between the Kabul government and the rebel 
factions, and the effects of repatriation of refugees will determine the 
direction of Afghanistan's future development.

PMID: 12342031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Demogr Issled. 1988:105-21.

[Biological-demographic aspects of investigating the duration of life].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA.

PIP: The author discusses the importance of investigating the biological factors 
that influence mortality, with a focus on the positive impact such 
investigations have on research concerning population reproduction.

PMID: 12342143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Demogr Issled. 1988:44-64.

[Interpolation of demographic data using rational spline functions].

[Article in Russian]

Barkalov NB.

PIP: The author describes the use of symmetrical national spline functions for 
the interpolation of age coefficients and of numbers surviving, as well as for 
the construction of a full life table based on average age coefficients.

PMID: 12342148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Demogr Issled. 1988:95-105.

[Some demographic issues in contemporary Spain].

[Article in Russian]

Echenike VK.

PIP: The author reviews demographic trends in Spain since 1900, with a focus on 
changes in population growth, birth rates, mortality, age and sex distribution, 
reproduction, total fertility rates, and life expectancy.

PMID: 12342150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Off Stat. 1987;3(1):19-36.

Past and recent attempts to model mortality at all ages.

Hartmann M.

"Most laws of mortality are partial in the sense that they apply only to a broad 
age group and not to all ages. This paper focuses on three laws of mortality 
that apply to all ages. Two of them were developed by the actuaries Thiele and 
Wittstein in the late 19th century. The third, developed by Heligman and 
Pollard, is of recent origin. The three laws are discussed with references to 
Scandinavian mortality data. The results suggest that the most recently proposed 
law can be used for generation of model life tables, for making population 
projections, simulations, and other statistical work where there is a need for a 
realistic model of human mortality."

excerpt

PMID: 12342229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Eur J Popul. 1988;4(3):247-69. doi: 10.1007/BF01796896.

The impact of first-birth timing on divorce: new evidence from a longitudinal 
analysis based on the Central Population Register of Norway.

Kravdal O.

"The association between divorce risks in first marriage and the timing of the 
first birth is inspected in a life-table analysis of registered birth and 
marriage histories from Norway. One of the main conclusions is that the high 
propensity to divorce among women who have had a premarital birth is not 
