confined to those who marry someone other than the father of their child. Also, 
women who have had a premarital child with their husband, run a much higher risk 
of marital breakup than do those who had their first baby in wedlock.... It is 
argued that couples who postpone childbearing beyond two years of marriage may 
have particularly low divorce rates." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01796896
PMID: 12342269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Maandstat Bevolking. 1989 May;37(5):23-9.

[Life tables by marital status].

[Article in Dutch]

Storm H, Levering J.

"A life table by marital status presents a distribution among the four marital 
statuses, i.e. never married, married, widowed and divorced, for a range of 
ages, starting at a specific age with an initial (fictitious) cohort of males or 
females. The numbers of survivors in each marital status are computed using sex, 
age and marital status-specific quotients concerning death or changes in marital 
status." The geographical focus is on the Netherlands. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12342273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Popul Today. 1988 Jun;16(6):5.

Survey report: El Salvador.

Kent MM.

PIP: The total fertility rate of women in El Salvador has declined from an 
average of 6 children per woman in the 1970s to 4.4 in 1985, according to the 
Demographic and Health Survey report by Westinghouse's Institute for Resource 
Development. 5200 women aged 15-49, from areas covering 75-80% of the country, 
were surveyed. Contraceptive usage has risen from 34 to 47%. The usual method 
chosen is sterilization, by 70% of women. Only 7% of married women use the pill, 
3% the IUD, 3% rhythm or withdrawal. Rural women, making up the majority of the 
population, accounted for a decline in total fertility from 8.4 to 5.9 children. 
In the capital San Salvador, fertility has risen from 2.6 to 3.3 children, 
reflecting migration of rural people into the city. The instability in El 
Salvador is probably responsible for a lowered life expectancy from 60 to 57 
years, and for heavy out migration in the 1980s. Vaccination rates have improved 
recently to 47% of children under 5 years.

PMID: 12342349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Demogr Inf. 1989:112-31.

[The demographic situation of Austria in the year 1987].

[Article in German]

Findl P.

PIP: Information is presented on demographic trends in Austria during 1987. Some 
comparative data for earlier years are also provided. Topics covered include 
births, fertility rates, population reproduction, deaths, life expectancy, 
marriages, divorces, international migration, refugees, naturalizations, changes 
in population size, age structure, and the dependency burden.

PMID: 12342428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Aust Popul Assoc. 1989 May;6(1):18-37. doi: 10.1007/BF03029468.

The old old or the new old? Part 2--health status and trends of the population 
aged 80 years and over.

Howe AL, Sharwood P.

"This paper is the second part of a study of the old old population, those aged 
80 years and older, in Australia. It poses the question, as the experience of 
advanced old age becomes increasingly the norm, are more people living longer 
because of better health, or surviving longer in poorer health? Three aspects of 
population health are examined: patterns and trends in mortality, the morbidity 
implications of these findings, and service utilization. The study identifies a 
need to integrate analyses of mortality, morbidity and service use, and to 
develop a methodology able to express the diversity of the old old population."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF03029468
PMID: 12342440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Age (Omaha). 1989 Apr;12(2):61-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02432637.

A quantitative model for lifespan curves.

Witten M.

"This paper addresses the issue of a model for the total lifespan survival 
curve, with particular interest in the later life or geriatric years. This new 
model is based upon the basic premise that the population under study is a 
mixture of individuals comprising three major subgroups: (1) neonatal deaths, 
(2) standard Gompertzian-like survival, (3) geriatric survival. It is 
demonstrated that a standard mixture model, mixing three survival distributions, 
more than adequately describes survival over the entire lifespan of the 
population. Further, this newer model has the desirable added virtue that the 
model parameters may be interpreted in a biological manner."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF02432637
PMID: 12342449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Egypt Popul Fam Plann Rev. 1986 Jun;20(1):1-12.

The Kuwaiti cause of death and expectation of life.

Abaza AK.

PIP: The author examines the changes in life expectancy during the period 
1970-1979 in Kuwait. Causes of death and age and sex differentials in life 
expectancy at birth are presented. Data are from official Kuwaiti sources.

PMID: 12342490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Renkou Yanjiu. 1988 Jan 29;(1):31-9.

[[Mortality distribution factors and life tables]].

[Article in Chinese]

Lu L.

PIP: This is an introduction to life table methodology. Particular attention is 
given to problems concerning the calculation of the distribution of deaths by 
age and their impact on estimates of life expectancy. Problems are illustrated 
using data from the abbreviated life tables of China for 1982.

PMID: 12342507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Popul Econ. 1988 Jun;1(1):5-16. doi: 10.1007/BF00171507.

The notion of population economics.

Van Praag BM.

PIP: Economic literature has not adequately addressed population problems and 
growth models have assumed the population growth rate as an exogenous constant. 
Life expectancy and the quality of documentation over a long period have 
corrected the problem of nonstationary population, however. In addition, 
mathematical and computational possibilities have been increased thereby 
allowing population issues to be considered endogenous and variable in models. 
Recognizing that population changes affect supply and demand and should be 
studied, a group of economists have found a society to address such population 
problems--the European Society for Population Economics. Within the realm of 
population economics are subfields that should be included in any studies. For 
example, economists must examine household behavior and its influence on having 
or not having children. Another subfield includes studying the effects of 
changes in birth rates. For example, birth rates affect age distribution and 
each age distribution has a typical distribution of demand. A young society 
would demand schooling and child care, while an old society would need elderly 
care and health facilities. To enhance optimum population growth, policy makers 
have several options. For example, family allowances and child care influence 
procreation, but they require an increase in state expenditures and taxes. 
Providing health care for all members of society improves the quality of the 
population and its size. Implementing a migration policy also increases the 
population. Education and retraining strengthens the quality of the labor force, 
but some argue that it does not lead to procreation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00171507
PMID: 12342564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. New Afr. 1989 Sep;(264):27.

Facing the population nightmare.

Ankomah B.

PIP: African countries are today suffering from the ill effects of uncontrolled 
population growth--massive unemployment, environmental degradation, and poor 
quality of people's lives. And the continent's population is growing at an 
alarming rate. According to U.N. projections, Africa's population will reach 1.5 
billion in the year 2025. West Africa's population is growing at a rate of 3.3% 
per year, East Africa's at 3.1%, Central Africa's at 2.9%, and North Africa's at 
2.7%. African women have 1 of the highest fertility rates in the world: an 
average of 6 children. While population is growing, the infant mortality rate is 
increasing. 113 of 1000 infants die in Africa compared to about 10 of 1000 
infants who die in developed countries. The life expectancy of African men is 49 
years; that of women is 52. African governments have responded poorly to the 
population growth crisis. Some African intellectuals have even termed the crisis 
a hoax put forth by westerners to destroy the black population or to sell 
contraceptives. Such illusory thinking will not remove the need for action, and 
the time for acting is now.

PMID: 12342623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1989 Dec;9(2):214-26.

Socio-economic correlates of life expectancy at birth--the case of developing 
countries.

Sufian AJ.

PIP: The effects of socioeconomic and health services related variables on life 
expectancy at birth and examined. National data for 50 developing countries 
obtained from the book "Family Planning and Child Survival: 100 Developing 
Countries" compiled by the Center for Population and Family Health, Columbia 
University, and from the 1987 World Population Data Sheet, have been used in 
this analysis. The multiple regression technique has been employed to identify 
the variables significantly associated with the life expectancy at birth. 13 
explanatory variables include energy consumption/capita, male literacy rate, 
female literacy rate, per capita gross national product, population living in 
urban areas, % of population with access to safe water supply, 
population/hospital bed, population/physician, of oral rehyd ration solution 
packets used/100 diarrhea episodes, and family planning program effort score. 
Among these the 1st 2 variables were dropped from the analysis as they posed 
threats of multicollinearity. The remaining 11 variables were considered for 
inclusion in the regression model. Only female literacy rate, family planning 
program effort, and per capita daily calories are significantly associated with 
life expectancy at birth. The female literacy rate has the largest contribution 
in lowering the life expectancy at birth followed by family planning program 
effort, and per capita daily calories. These 3 variables have a number of policy 
implications. High female literacy rate has a depressant effect on infant 
mortality rate. It is expected that the higher the family planning program 
effort, the lower the fertility. Also, calorie supply measures nutritional 
status and differences in food availability. In conclusion, there is a need in 
developing countries to express development goals in terms of progressive 
reduction in infant mortality through maternal education, limitation of family 
size through family planning efforts, and eventual elimination of malnutrition 
from the poverty-stricken people, to achieve the goal of minimum mortality 
level.

PMID: 12342756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Ingu Pogon Nonjip. 1989 Dec;9(2):3-33.

[A review of the family planning program in the third stage of the Korean 
population transition].

[Article in Korean]

Kong SK, Cho AJ.

PIP: The authors discuss the role of family planning in the fertility decline of 
the Republic of Korea. Age-specific fertility rates are presented for the years 
1960-1985. Population projections for selected demographic indicators such as 
life expectancy, birth rate, death rate, and total fertility rate are projected 
up to the year 2020. The authors are concerned with below-replacement fertility, 
demographic aging, spatial distribution, population density, and implications 
for population policy and the direction of family planning programs. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

PMID: 12342757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Jinkogaku Kenkyu. 1989 May;(12):1-10.

On the relation between mortality levels and age distributions of deaths.

Katsuno M.

PIP: The author attempts to establish a link between two mortality indicators, 
age distributions of deaths and life expectancy at birth. This method is 
proposed as an alternative way of estimating mortality levels based on data for 
deaths at age 50 and above, to compensate for the difficulty of obtaining 
reliable demographic data in many developing countries. Data are from 1986 U.N. 
life tables for 43 developing countries. (SUMMARY IN JPN)

PMID: 12342764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Popul Index. 1989 Winter;55(4):613-43.

Revised regional model life tables at very low levels of mortality.

Coale A, Guo G.

PIP: This paper presents and discusses new model life tables at very low 
mortality, which make use of age-specific death rates from the 1960s, 1970s, and 
1980s. These life tables fit recorded death rates in very low mortality 
populations better than do the existing ones at expectations of life of 77.5 and 
80 years. The old tables incorporate too-high mortality at the higher ages and 
in infancy and they incorporate regional differences that no longer exist. The 
new tables "close out" the mortality schedules above age 80 more realistically. 
The convergence of age patterns of mortality at very high life expectancies in 
populations that used to conform to different families is in itself of 
demographic interest. Some convergence may perhaps be expected. Sullivan (1973) 
found that, in Taiwan, the comparison of mortality at ages 1-5 to mortality at 
5-35 in the late 1950s showed higher mortality at the younger ages relative to 
the ensuing 30-year age interval than was found in any of the models, including 
the South model, which has the highest relative mortality from ages 1-5 among 
the 4 regional patterns. Then, in the late 1960s, the relation of mortality at 
1-5 to mortality at 5-35 in Taiwan fell to a position intermediate between the 
West and South tables. Sullivan found in data on mortality by cause of death a 
large reduction in mortality from diarrhea and enteritis, no doubt as a result 
of environmental sanitation. Mortality from these causes is concentrated among 
young children, and reduction in deaths from these causes would naturally 
diminish the excess mortality in this age interval. The East pattern, 
characterized by very high mortality in infancy (but not from 1-5), may be the 
result of the prevalence of early weaning or avoidance of breast feeding 
altogether in the populations characterized by this pattern. As health 
conditions have improved, evidenced by the overall design of mortality, these 
special factors are diminished or erased. Model life tables at these very low 
mortality levels have different uses from most applications of model life tables 
at higher mortality. The use of model tables to estimate accurate schedules of 
mortality when the basic data are incomplete or inaccurate is less relevant in 
this range of mortality levels.

PMID: 12342771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Aging Jud. 1990 Summer;4(4):289-303.

Mortality patterns among elderly American Jews.

Rosenwaike I.

"Mortality studies of ethnic and religious subgroups within a nation are of 
interest as they provide indicators of health differentials that may result from 
differences in life style and risk-factor exposures. The mortality experience of 
North American Jews has been documented over many years and is of particular 
interest because of the unusual pattern that has been observed, a crossover from 
relatively low rates at younger ages to relatively high rates at older ages. 
This study examines mortality in 1979-81 among more than 100,000 Medicare 
enrollees who held 22 surnames common among American Jews. The findings 
substantiate those of a recent mortality study of a Canadian Jewish population 
which indicated more rapid improvement in life expectancy among elderly Jewish 
than non-Jewish males, and a lessening of the relative disadvantage of elderly 
Jewish women."

excerpt

PMID: 12342785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Rev Bras Estud Popul. 1989 Jul-Dec;6(2):1-16.

[The family in the twenty-first century: a demographic review].

[Article in Portuguese]

Berquo E.

PIP: The future of the family in Brazil is examined in the context of 
convergence theory concerning family transformation. In particular, the author 
considers whether industrialization and urbanization will affect the family in 
different societies in the same way. Factors considered include declining 
fertility, increased life expectancy, increased female labor force 
participation, sexual liberation, the fragility of conjugal relationships, and 
growing individualism. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12342853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Demogr Issled. 1989;13:94-101.

[Trends in the death rate and length of life among the Ukraine's population in 
the postwar period].

[Article in Russian]

Rudnitskii EP.

PIP: Trends in mortality and life expectancy in the Ukrainian SSR are analyzed 
based on life tables for 1948-1949 and 1953-1954. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12342878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Popnet. 1990 Fall;(18):5-10.

Spatial mapping of sex ratios.

Oberg S.

PIP: The author describes the use of a computer mapping process, the overlapping 
reference areas technique, to produce maps depicting the geographical 
distribution of sex ratios in Sweden using official data. Factors affecting sex 
ratios are discussed, including life expectancy, sex ratio at birth, trends in 
household formation, and geographic imbalances.

PMID: 12343026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Asia Pac Popul J. 1990 Dec;5(4):47-56.

A decomposition analysis of recent fertility decline in Fiji.

Gubhaju B, Shahidullah M.

PIP: Over the period 1966-86, both the Fijian and Indian populations of Fiji 
demonstrated declines in fertility. Differentials in the decline were, however, 
noted with the total fertility rate (TFR) of the Fijian population declining by 
26% over the period compared to a 50% decline in the Indian TFR. Moreover, rate 
declines were not smooth and consistent over the period. Faster fertility 
decline was experienced in the 1st decade for both groups, slowing in the 2nd 
decade for Indian women, and stabilizing among the Fijians. This paper 
decomposes these differential changes in fertility rate into marital structure 
and marital fertility. The study was conducted using data from the censuses of 
1966, 1976, and 1986. For the period 1966-76, declines in marital fertility 
contributed most to overall TFR decline for both ethnic groups. Marital 
structure had a reducing effect upon TFR among Indian women in the 1st decaed, 
but not during the 2nd. Fijian women experienced an overall negative impact from 
marital structure. Contraception plays an important role in limiting fertility 
in these 2 populations. Accordingly, differentials in acceptance were noticed, 
the family planning acceptance rate for Indians being almost twice that of 
Fijians; 35.6% and 18.7%, respectively in 1986. Compared to Indian women, Fijian 
women were more literate, more economically active, had higher life 
expectancies, and experience lower infant mortality rates. Nonetheless, they are 
not motivated to use family planning. Motivational, cultural, religious, and 
behavioral factors are suggested as causal factors determining acceptance and 
use of modern contraceptive methods.

PMID: 12343031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Sov Econ. 1990 Jul-Sep;6(3):191-251.

Trends in mortality of the Soviet population.

Anderson BA, Silver BD.

A review of current mortality trends in the Soviet Union is presented. 
"Discussed are variations (by republic and over time) in life expectancy, infant 
mortality, and mortality in the working ages. Analyzing trends since 1959, the 
authors highlight problems relating to the quality and interpretation of 
pertinent statistical data of Soviet origin. Distinguishing real trends from 
pseudotrends, they evaluate mortality differences among regions and illustrate a 
more favorable long-term trend in mortality than suggested by official 
figures...."

excerpt

PMID: 12343067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Sociol Rom. 1990;(1-2):171-9.

[The demographic situation in Romania. Where to?].

[Article in Romanian]

Boja I.

PIP: This is the text of an interview with Vasile Ghetau on the demographic 
situation of Romania at the end of the Ceausescu era. Dr. Ghetau points out the 
high levels of infant mortality, declines in life expectancy for both sexes, and 
continued low levels of fertility despite vigorous pronatalist measures such as 
the banning of induced abortion. He suggests that these negative trends are 
directly linked to the fact that the regime's population policy violated 
individual human rights; the deteriorating economic condition of the country; 
and shortages of many essentials, including food, heat, medicines, and health 
services generally.

PMID: 12343118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Demogr Inf. 1991:111-38.

[The demographic situation of Austria in 1989].

[Article in German]

Findl P.

PIP: Information is presented on population trends in Austria in 1989, along 
with some comparative data for earlier years and for other countries. Topics 
covered include fertility and population reproduction, mortality and life 
expectancy, marriages, divorces, international migration, naturalizations, 
changes in population size, age structure, the dependency burden, and population 
projections for 1990-2030.

PMID: 12343121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Rural Demogr. 1988;15(1-2):27-39.

Trends and regional differentials in mortality in Bangladesh.

Ahmad S.

PIP: A researcher from the University of Chittagong in Bangladesh applied data 
from the 1974 Bangladesh Retrospective Survey of Fertility and Mortality to the 
Palloni-Heligman model life tables and to the Coale-Demeny model life tables to 
estimate trends in infant mortality and life expectancy in 4 regions. Both 
models exhibited a slight fall in infant mortality during 1960-1965, but in 
increased during 1967-1971. It fell during 1959-1965 in Rajshani, Khulna, and 
Dhaka and increased after 1965. On the other hand, it remained basically the 
same from 1959-1969 in Chittagong then increased. Rajshani and Khulna had higher 
infant mortality from 1959-1967 than Dhaka and Chittagong. Even though Dhaka had 
the lowest infant mortality in 1971, the rates for all the regions were 
essentially the same. Life expectancy at birth hovered around 47 years during 
1960-1969 then fell to 45 years in 1971. In Rajshani and Khulna, it rose 
consistently from 1959-1967. Dhaka also had increasing life expectancy, but it 
was not consistent. All 4 regions exhibited a fall in life expectancy after 
1969. Improved medical and public health services in the 1950s accounted for the 
fall in infant mortality and rise in life expectancy at birth between 1959-late 
1960s. A cluster of disasters in the early 1970s including a cyclone, civil 
uprising related to independence, and famine resulted in high infant mortality 
rates and lower life expectancy rates. To reduce mortality and increase life 
expectancy, major headway must be made in improving the standard of living, 
nutritional status of the population, water supply, and sanitary facilities. In 
addition, a child health program that provides basic immunization and oral 
rehydration therapy for diarrhea will further improvements.

PMID: 12343242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Stat J UN Econ Comm Eur. 1990;7(1):13-25.

Trends and future prospects of the female overlife by regions in Europe.

Siampos GS.

The author analyzes trends in the sex differential in life expectancy in 
twentieth-century Europe. "The magnitude of the sex differential in life 
expectancy at birth--which is the most convenient measure for summarising 
changes in the relative mortality of the sexes through the available national 
life tables...is set forth for each member country together with a geographic 
classification by regions...." The results indicate that a continuation of the 
widening of the difference favoring women will occur. Gains for both males and 
females will be quite small during the next century, however.

excerpt

PMID: 12343274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Imbonezamuryango. 1991 Apr;(20):3-7.

[Foreword].

[Article in French, Kinyarwanda]

Habyarimana J.

PIP: This document presents the address of the President of Rwanda, Major- 
General Juvenile Habyarimana, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the 
National Office of Population (ONAPO), observed on January 16, 1991. ONAPO's 
mandate was to study population growth and its impact on socioeconomic 
development, create awareness of population problems through an IEC program, 
ensure good use of family planning methods, study methods of integrating family 
planning services into the public health system, suggest ways of balancing 
population and production, and develop population education programs for all 
educational levels. ONAPO in its 1st 10 years succeeded in drawing to the 
attention of officials and administrators the interrelations between population 
and development and creating awareness among the population of the imbalances 
between population growth and available resources. ONAPO has tried to develop an 
awareness in all citizens of their individual responsibility for population 
control. ONAPO has put into place a vigorous IEC program based essentially on 
volunteer motivators. The proportion of users of some family planning method has 
increased from 1% in 1983 to 10% in 1990, and family planning services have been 
integrated into 80% of health facilities. ONAPO has conducted significant 
studies on the impact of population growth which are invaluable for development 
planning. Despite the accomplishments, Rwanda's family planning program is faced 
with enormous challenges. Rwanda is currently the most densely populated country 
on earth. From 1 million inhabitants in 1990, the population increased to 2 
million around 1950 and over 7 million in 1990. It will exceed 10 million in 
2000 at current rates or growth. Among foreseeable consequences is widespread 
famine, already experienced in the most populated areas of Rwanda. ONAPO and the 
Planning Ministry have jointly prepared a document spelling out Rwanda's 
population policy. Its basic objectives include promoting use of all authorized 
contraceptive methods, improving health and reducing mortality rates, increasing 
the knowledge of population problems through family life education, increasing 
the contribution of women to development, and seeking improved population 
distribution through internal migration and emigration. Specific objectives for 
the year 2000 are to reduce the total fertility rate from 8.5 to 4, raise the 
contraceptive prevalence rate from 10% to 40%, reduce the rate of population 
growth from 3.7% to under 2% and increase life expectancy from 49 to 53.5 years.

PMID: 12343292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Philipp Popul J. 1987 Jan-Dec;3(1-4):51-61.

Can NFP be taught in two short, easy lessons? Simplified NFP for isolated and/or 
busy couples.

Madigan FC, Sealza LP, Tabor MD.

PIP: Researchers used life table rates from study and comparison groups from 
rural and urban areas of Cagayan de Oro City, the Philippines to test a 
simplified method of teaching natural family planning (NFP) defined by calendar, 
mucus, and cervix indicators. This method included a 6 page booklet, 2 30-minute 
training sessions, and a question and answer period. Fear of side effects from 
other contraceptive methods was the leading reason for using NFP (79.4% urban, 
85.8% rural). Religious motivation and fear of side effects followed for urban 
couples, but the percentage was low (14.6%). In rural areas, religious 
motivation place 3rd (4.1%) preceded by other reasons (6.9%). User error 
resulted in low accidental pregnancy rates (.8%). Method failure was responsible 
for higher failure rates than user error, but they were still relatively low 
(3.4% total). In rural areas, the reason for failure was unclear in 2.6% of 
couples, but it was only .9% among urban couples. Rural couples who used NFP to 
space births (spacers) had 2 times the failure rate of those rural couples who 
used NFP to limit births (limiters) [69% vs. 31%]. Urban spacers had a higher 
failure rate than urban limiters, but the difference was smaller than it was for 
rural couples (54.8% vs. 45.2%). Lactation did not have a clear effect on 
failure rates. For example, in urban areas, partially lactating women had a 
lower failure rate than nonlactating women (41.9% vs. 58.1%), but in rural 
areas, lactation had the opposite effect (63.6% for lactating women and 36.4% 
for nonlactating women). Risk taking resulted in more 6 month pregnancy rates 
among urban couples than rural couples (12.3% vs. 8.2%). At the end of 6 months, 
67.5% of all couples still used the new simplified NFP method (70.3% rural vs. 
64.7% urban). Therefore the new simplified NFP method was an effective method 
for spacing or limiting births.

PMID: 12343298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Enfoques Aten Prim. 1991 Mar;6(1):19-32.

[How to teach human sexuality?].

[Article in Spanish]

Bravo S.

PIP: 3 small scale sex education programs developed in recent years by 
nongovernmental organizations in Chile are described. In 1 case, PAESMI 
cooperated with the Organization of American States to develop a sex education 
program for schools in the municipality of Estacion Central. The 1st phase 
involved training of 40 teacher-monitors who attended a 3-day workshop during 
the 1988 summer vacation. They later served as instructors for the remaining 
teachers in the 12 participating schools. Saturday workshops were held over 4 
months to familiarize teachers with the program and its objectives. No specific 
curriculum was established; teachers were to introduce the topics at their 
discretion into the existing program. A methodological guide was prepared for 
preschool and primary children in 1988, and in 1989 the program was extended to 
older children. The majority of participating teachers were enthusiastic, but at 
present the Biomedical Extension Center of the University of Chile is teaching a 
course on foundations for human sexuality for educators. It provides teachers 
with an improved factual basis to complement the stress on attitudes and ethics 
of the earlier course. A segment of the original course dealing with attitudes 
toward pornography is included. The 2nd program was a 10-session workshop 
organized by 4 psychologists, 2 teachers, and a midwife belonging to the Father 
Andre Jarlan Center for Research and Action in People's Health (CIASPO) for 
students in 4 intermediate schools in the commune of Santiago. The objective of 
CIASPO, a nongovernmental organization founded in 1985, is to provide sex 
education from a multidisciplinary perspective to enable students to assume 
responsibility for their own sexuality and improve attitudes. The workshop 
stressed the importance of the body, sentiments, and emotions, examined culture 
and sex roles, and contraceptive methods. A preworkshop evaluation questionnaire 
indicated that the participants had a deficient knowledge of sexuality. Workshop 
organizers emphasized the need for support from school authorities in 
implementing sex education programs. The final sex education initiative 
consisted of a mental health program developed by a group of professional women 
who worked with lower class urban women. The Center for Development of Women 
(DOMOS) began its work in the area of female sexuality, but by 1987 had become 
specialized in the mental health of women. DOMOS has a program of shortterm 
individual psychotherapy and a program of preventive education consisting of 
workshops on different themes lasting 4-12 weeks each. A sexuality workshop was 
held to help participants understand their sexuality as a natural function and 
an important part of human life.

PMID: 12343307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Biom J. 1991;33(2):143-62. doi: 10.1002/bimj.4710330204.

A general theory of life table construction and a precise abridged life table 
method.

Hsieh JJ.

"In this paper we lay the foundation of life table construction by unifying the 
existing life table methods. We also present a new method of constructing 
current (period) abridged life tables.... The development includes (1) a careful 
formulation and computation of age-specific death rates, (2) derivation of a new 
set of formulas for computing the survivorship function from the observed 
age-specific death rates and populations, (3) estimation of the main life table 
functions by spline interpolation, integration and differentiation, and (4) use 
of a quadratic and a Gompertz function to close the life table.... The method is 
illustrated with construction of abridged life tables using Canadian data."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1002/bimj.4710330204
PMID: 12343327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Genus. 1990 Jul-Dec;46(3-4):55-69.

The effect of women's status on sex differentials in infant and child mortality 
in South Asia.

Amin S.

PIP: The differentials in infant and child mortality is discussed, with special 
attention given to patterns related to sex-specific birth order and the mother's 
education. Data was collected from rural Punjab between 1968-73 during a health 
intervention project. Findings suggest that the influence of maternal education, 
sex and birth order interacted in a complex manner. 2nd and higher order 
daughters were found to have a higher mortality rate relative to 1st daughters 
and sons. Children of educated mothers had a lower risk of dying even though the 
population's education level was very low. Even among educated mothers daughters 
of 2nd or higher birth order had abnormally high mortality in the 1st month of 
life. This is theorized to reflect the fact that resource allocation is devoted 
to 1st order sons and daughters. 4 factors determined the health of the 
children: 1) the resources like money, time and skills available to the family. 
2) the disease environment in which the child lives. 3) the child's genetic 
endowment. 4) the allocation decisions made by the family regarding distribution 
of available resources. During the health intervention operation data on 
mortality, fertility, health service utilization, and socioeconomic status were 
collected by continuous record systems, longitudinal surveys, and cross 
sectional retrospective surveys. The determinants of child survival were 
examined using a multivariate extension of life tables known as hazard models.

PMID: 12343334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Demografie. 1991;33(2):106-13.

[Mortality of the Czech and the Slovak populations considering historically low 
mortality rates].

[Article in Czech]

Burcin B, Stloukal L.

PIP: The mortality rates of the Slovak and Czech populations of Czechoslovakia 
from 1953 to 1988 are analyzed. The lowest death rates in the country's history 
were achieved for all age groups during this period. The authors calculate that 
a significant increase in life expectancy for both ethnic groups will occur in 
1988. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12343370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Demografie. 1991;33(3):210-21.

[Contributions to regional mortality differentials].

[Article in Czech]

Kraus J.

"In this article there have been applied some analytical methods of 
multidimensional analysis based on calculated abridged mortality tables for the 
districts of Czechoslovakia (1981-1985)." The techniques were used to assess 
average life span and probability of death. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12343399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Maandstat Bevolking. 1991 Dec;39(12):18-22.

[Period life tables for the Netherlands by sex and age, 1986-1990].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: Life tables are presented by age and sex for the Netherlands for the period 
1986-1990. A decline in age-specific mortality is demonstrated, especially for 
younger males. An increase in life expectancy across the population is shown. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12343434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Maandstat Bevolking. 1991 Dec;39(12):29-40.

[Population forecasts 1991: method, assumptions, and results].

[Article in Dutch]

De Beer J.

PIP: A population projection to the year 2000 for the Netherlands is presented. 
Consideration is given to expected levels of migration, life span, fertility, 
female labor force participation, mortality, consensual union, marriage, 
divorce, and mortality. Data are from various official and other published 
sources, to which a variety of estimation techniques were applied. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

PMID: 12343436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Contracept Technol Update. 1992 Jan;13(1):15-6.

What is breast cancer risk with Depo-Provera?

[No authors listed]

PIP: A recent World Health Organization (WHO) study found that women using 
Depo-Provera have only a slight increased risk of breast cancer. WHO examined 
case-control data from 5 hospitals in Africa, Mexico, and Thailand. The study 
revealed a 1.21 relative risk of breast cancer among all women in the study who 
had used Depo-Provera (a relative risk of 1.0 means that there is neither an 
increased or decreased likelihood to develop the disease in question). A 
relative risk of 1.21 indicates that there is a 21% increased likelihood of 
developing the disease, but any relative risk of less than 2.0 is considered 
slight. The study also found that among the diagnosed breast cancer cases, 12.5% 
had ever used Depo-Provera, compared to 12.2% among the control patients. 
Although an increased risk of breast cancer among women--especially women under 
35--within the first 4 years of exposure to Depo-Provera was found, the risk did 
not increase with the duration of use, and it did not increase among women who 
had used the drug for more than 5 years. WHO explains that the risk of breast 
cancer among Depo-Provera user is similar to that found among oral 
contraceptives users, whose relative risk ranges from 1.0-1.42. Based on their 
findings, WHO investigators estimate that there would be 7-8 new cases of breast 
cancer per 100,000 Depo-Provera users annually, compared to 5 new cases annually 
among women who had not used the drug. As a recent commentary by Family Health 
International (FHI) points out, this increased risk of breast cancer must be 
weighted against the benefits provided by Depo-Provera. FHI concludes that there 
is a net gain for women using Depo-Provera, since despite the slight risk of 
breast cancer, it would result in a higher life expectancy compared to women not 
using contraception.

PMID: 12343459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Man India. 1991 Mar;71(1):235-9.

Indian tribal fertility patterns from Orissa.

Ray AK, Roth EA.

PIP: Researchers used 1954 vital statistics from 23 villages of the Juang tribe 
in Orissa, India to determine if the historic view of a distinctive marital 
fertility pattern maintains tribal fertility differentials and to test the 
hypothesis that the death of an infant or child brings about a quick return of 
fecundity through cessation of lactation. They also examined demographic data 
collected in the 1980s from the Koya Dora tribe in Orissa, India and such data 
on Bangladeshi women. The Juang population had a total marital fertility rate of 
about 6 and a life expectancy at birth of 35.9 years. The Juangs had a higher 
proportion of 15-19 year old married women than the Koya Doras (17.4% vs. 12%). 
Further the Juangs exhibited a higher index of proportion married than the Koya 
Doras (97% vs. 87%). The researchers also compared the biological interval 
effect for pre and postmenopausal Koya Dora women, Bangladeshi women, and Juan 
women. For Juan Women, the interval of live births that resulted in infant or 
child mortality was 31.9 months compared to 36.9 months for those that resulted 
in survival (p.001). The biological replacement effect stood at 0.14. The 
biological replacement effect for pre and postmenopausal Koya Dora women and 
Bangladeshi women were 0.25, 0.32, and 0.28 respectively. In conclusion, the 2 
leading factors for Juang fertility included almost universal marriage and early 
marriage and birth spacing dependent upon child survival or mortality.

PMID: 12343540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Econ Reun. 1991 Sep-Oct;(55):12-5.

[One small century and then it's gone..].

[Article in French]

Cimbaro P.

PIP: Data from the 1990 census of Reunion are used to develop life tables and 
estimates of life expectancy by sex.

PMID: 12343631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Consum Mark Abroad. 1988 Jul;7(7):2-8.

Recovery in river country.

Tyrrell PJ.

PIP: As the 3rd largest sub-Saharan African country with a highly developed and 
diversified economy, Zairian's life expectancy rose from 43.5 to 51.5 years 
between 1965-85. A larger medical staff which in 1980 equated 1 doctor/15,000 
people contributed to an increase in health care. Zaire's Project SIPA, one of 
the largest AIDS programs in Africa, uses, e.g., TV messages to publicize public 
health messages to the population. Food production increased by 10% into the 
1980s; 1982 marked the beginning of an upward trend in per capita income. 
Between 1984-85, the gross national product (GNP) of US $5.7 billion increased 
by 2.5%, or US $170/capita. Rich natural resources contributed to exports of US 
$1.87 billion in 1986 and imports of US $1.5 billion. But, hyperinflation 
abounds with a family of 6 in 1982 requiring US $330 dollars/month when minimum 
wage was US $70/month for unskilled workers and US $104 for skilled workers. 
Basic reforms in 1982 to deal with the foreign-debt of US $5 billion reduced 
inflation to 30% in 1985 from 76% in 1983 and created aa 1% GNP surplus. 
However, 50% of the government's annual budget was required recently to meet 
debt repayment schedules. New investment codes protect foreign investment and 
efforts are underway to channel this into timber (250 million acres), 
horticulture, and aquaculture. Favorable assets include low labor costs, 
well-run air cargo transport, and fertile land. Population data are limited, at 
present, to un demographic projections.

PMID: 12343686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Math Popul Stud. 1992;3(4):259-76. doi: 10.1080/08898489209525345.

Multistate life-tables and regression models.

Gill RD.

"A survey is given of the use of modern statistical techniques in event history 
analysis, and in particular in the study of multi-state life-tables in 
demography. Emphasis is placed on the interplay between partial likelihood and 
nonparametric maximum likelihood based methods, a) when analysing semi-Markov 
models or models with repeated spells, and b) in frailty models for unobservable 
heterogeneity."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898489209525345
PMID: 12343718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Maandstat Bevolking. 1992 Jun;40(6):31-7.

[Marriage dissolution table for the Netherlands by duration of marriage, 
1986-1990].

[Article in Dutch]

Tas RF.

PIP: Tables enumerating marriage dissolution by separation, divorce, or death of 
either partner are presented for the Netherlands for the period 1986-1990. 
Comparisons are made with the period 1981-1985. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12343748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Aust Popul Assoc. 1992 May;9(1):1-23. doi: 10.1007/BF03029547.

Recent trends in mortality in Australia--an analysis of the causes of death 
through the application of life table techniques.

Jain SK.

"The paper examines the post-1971 reduction in Australian mortality in light of 
data on causes of death. Multiple-decrement life tables for eleven leading 
causes of death by sex are calculated and the incidence of each cause of death 
is presented in terms of the values of the life table functions. The study found 
that in the overall decline in mortality over the last 20 years significant 
changes occurred in the contribution of the various causes to total 
mortality.... The sex-age-cause-specific incidence of mortality changed and the 
median age at death increased for all causes except for deaths due to 
motor-vehicle accidents for both sexes and suicide for males. The paper also 
deciphers the gains in the expectation of life at birth over various time 
periods and the sex-differentials in the expectation of life at birth at a point 
in time in terms of the contributions made by the various sex-age-cause-specific 
mortality rates."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF03029547
PMID: 12343789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Shengzhi Yu Biyun. 1991 Feb;11(1):65-8.

[Attempt to evaluate a contraceptive method using fuzzy mathematics: a study on 
the acceptability of Norplant].

[Article in Chinese]

Lo XW.

PIP: Life table analysis has been a good method for evaluating the effectiveness 
of contraceptive methods. However, it does not take into account factors such as 
safety, reversibility, side effects, acceptability, and costs, which are 
important aspects of a contraceptive methods. Fuzzy mathematics is an evaluation 
system that includes those elements. The data of a 1 year follow-up study on 
1000 Norplant users were used in the analysis. Included in the fussy sets were a 
matrix which combined the contraceptive method continuation rate, occurrence of 
side effects, reversibility, rating of method from a opinion poll, and financial 
costs with an assigned ranking of acceptability of the method. Weights were 
assigned to the fuzzy sets, and, after the data manipulation, a value was 
obtained for a particular method. Results showed that Norplant is in the "easily 
acceptable" category, the best of 4 categories. As the safety indicator was 
lacking, it was not included in the analysis. Due to the fact that the 
indicators to be included in the fuzzy set and the weights given to the 
indicators are subjective, different variables or weights may produce very 
different results. Therefore, this contraceptive evaluation method should be 
used by experienced professionals. The proposed method could also be used to 
compare different contraceptive methods or the same contraceptive method at 
different stages and in different geographic areas in terms of effectiveness and 
acceptability.

PMID: 12343818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Popul Bull ESCWA. 1989 Jun;(34):37-44.

Sex-role homogeneity, female status and demographic change.

Burch TK.

"This study attempts to investigate the nature of the relationships governing 
child-bearing models and family formation by measuring the status and role of 
women in society....[The author] proposes that inductive analysis should be 
adopted using the difference in life-expectancy among males and females at birth 
