as a measurement of women's status to define the distinction between the roles 
of the two sexes. This is carried out by analysing the interrelationships 
between the variables of development, religion, area, fertility and women's 
relative status in a group of 120 countries. The study concludes that the 
analysis of the downward slope at the international level may explain the effect 
of the roles of the two sexes and women's status on demographic change on the 
one hand, and the effect of cultural factors such as region and religion on 
women's role and status on the other."

excerpt

PMID: 12343848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Chin J Popul Sci. 1991;3(4):259-75.

A study of the mortality rate and life expectancy of the Chinese population over 
the last forty years.

Yan R, Chen S.

"In order to make up for the incompleteness of data in the last 40 years, this 
paper will try to make a preliminary study of the age-specific mortality rate 
and average life expectancy and its changing trends [for] the Chinese population 
over the last 40 years, based on the relevant data on mortality from sample 
surveys on fertility and birth control among Chinese women."

excerpt

PMID: 12343852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Chin J Popul Sci. 1991;3(4):277-83.

Method of life table construction by level and pattern of death.

Lu L.

"In this paper the author has discussed a method of estimating life tables 
according to level and pattern of death." The model is then compared to those 
for calculating life tables developed by Coale and Demeny (1983) and by the 
United Nations (1982). The author finds that "the model in this paper...has 
strong applicability [and]...flexibility.... It can generate both simple life 
tables and integrated life tables. Our model can generate correspondingly simple 
or integrated life tables according to the roughness of the original information 
supplied by the user." The geographical scope is worldwide.

excerpt

PMID: 12343853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Demografie. 1992;34(4):273-83.

[Population developments in Czechoslovakia in 1991].

[Article in Czech]

Ales M.

PIP: The author reviews political and economic trends in Czechoslovakia since 
late 1989 and their effects on population characteristics, with a focus on the 
effect of changes in migration policy. A sharp decline in fertility, continued 
high levels of legal induced abortion due to unmet contraceptive need, and one 
of the shortest life expectancies in Europe are all noted. Some comparisons are 
made between the Czech Republic and Slovakia. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12343978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1989;16:2.

Interim Economic and Social Development Plan, 1983-1986. [Selected provisions].

Comoros.

PIP: The Comoros interim economic and social development plan, 1983-86, 
contained provisions relating to family planning (FP), maternal and child 
health, and population education. Without FP, the high demographic growth rate 
in Comoros would increase even further. When this growth is added to the reduced 
infant mortality rate and the expected increased life expectancy of adults due 
to improvements in sanitary and nutritional conditions, demographic pressure 
will become intolerable, the attainment of social objectives will be delayed, 
and improvement in the quality of life of the population will be slowed. A FP 
program will be instituted as soon as possible to provide education and 
information and place contraceptive material freely at the disposal of the 
people. As part of the A.I.D. project which will help realize these goals, a 
division of FP will be created in the Ministry of Public Health, the 
pharmaceutical supply network will be decentralized, a detailed labor plan will 
be created for each sector, and a master plan will be implemented for the 
establishment and modernization of a network of hospitals. The project depends 
on construction of 2 maternal-child health clinics and the and the revival of an 
unspecified number of sanitary posts. A new building will be necessary for the 
central pharmacy, and a warehouse for pharmaceutical products will be needed on 
each island. Technical assistance will amount to 168 million Comoran francs, 
with the cost rising to 690 million Comoran francs after 1982. These costs will 
be financed by an A.I.D. loan and by a 4.7% contribution from the Comoran 
government.

PMID: 12344283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1989;16:3, 267-8.

National Population Programme 1989-1994. [Summary].

Mexico.

PIP: Mexico's National Population Program, 1989-1994, offers the following 
specific objectives: to promote a better rhythm of population growth be reducing 
the fertility level (to a growth rate of 1.8% in 1994 and to 1% in 2000), 
improving population welfare and increasing life expectancy; to achieve a 
population distribution according to the development potential of the different 
regions, with consideration of national and international migration, with the 
hope of lessening the size of the great metropolitan zones and encouraging the 
growth of small and intermediate cities; to promote the development and welfare 
of indigenous groups, considering their demographic structure and dynamics, and 
respecting their ethnic identity; to promote the integration of demographic 
objectives into the country's economic and social planning, particularly to 
improve the well-being of those living in extreme poverty; to promote women's 
participation, in conditions equal to those of men, in economic, political, 
social, and cultural life, to contribute to the achievement of a better level of 
individual, family, and community well-being. The priorities established: to 
promote the reduction of fertility through population education and family 
planning services; to establish demographic objectives to guide regional 
development and the development of urban centers to reorient migration flows as 
required; to support family participation in population policy objectives; to 
increase women's educational level; to analyze mortality and morbidity trends; 
to analyze the demographic behavior of the indigenous population to facilitate 
actions taken to fulfill their needs and preserve their identity; and to balance 
population actions with other actions taken to assist disadvantaged rural and 
urban groups. The strategy for implementation: the integration of population 
policy into development policy; decentralization to the state and municipal 
levels; coordinating the activities in various sectors (health, education, 
housing); enhancement of community participation; development of information and 
research activities and of human resources and strengthening of population 
education and communication activities.

PMID: 12344374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1992 Oct;48(3):16-45.

[[Population projections for Japan: 1991-2025]].

[Article in Japanese]

Atoh M, Kaneko T, Takahashi S, Kaneko R, Ohba T, Mita F.

PIP: Population projections for Japan to 2025 are presented and discussed. 
Consideration is given to life expectancy by age and sex, and to mortality 
rates. Some discussion of the methodology used in the analysis is offered.

PMID: 12344604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Asia Pac J Rural Dev. 1992 Jul;2(1):1-34.

How poor are women in rural India?

Rajuladevi AK.

PIP: The assessment of poor women in India as dependent and exploited regardless 
of poverty focused strategies is reflected in this review of relevant 
literature. The scholarly approaches to the problems of poor women involve 
redirection and expansion of resources to women (increase bank credit) through 
policy and institutional changes, and involve improving women's welfare through 
changes in class and gender hierarchies; both pertain to restructuring power 
groups. A little ascribed to belief is that the organization of women's numbers 
will empower women; the constraints are stated. There is also some argument over 
whether to design women-specific programs or integrate women into existing 
programs; some examples are given of successes and difficulties. The 
regionalization of poverty in eastern and central India is discussed. The growth 
of the poor has been among the landless, wage-dependent households. 9.6% of 
households (7.5 million) are headed by women. Women work fewer hours and at 
lower wage scales and have fewer employment opportunities. Lower earnings are 
coupled with differentials in demand for female and male labor in agriculture 
and a crowded labor market. There is a concentration of women in less visible, 
nonmonetary subsistence production and domestic work. Women are undercounted in 
employment studies. Women predominate in agricultural activity. Women's status 
is influenced by economic status, caste, and ethnic background. Domestic work 
increases status for women and households. The poorer households have greater 
labor force participation, particularly as wage laborers rather than unpaid 
family workers. Regional factors affecting rural household strategies are 
factors affecting the economy (topography, rainfall, climate) and the degree of 
development, plus sociocultural variables (kinship and religious beliefs which 
affect the social domain of women), and the degree of dependence on hired vs. 
family labor. There are sharp contrasts in the value and survival of women 
regionally. Female labor force participation is low in all regions; the nature 
and distribution of agricultural laborers is discussed followed by examples from 
3 different regions (east, south, and north). The gender inequalities in access 
to basic needs are reviewed for sex ratio, mortality, and nutrition, and 
education. The preference is for gender-based policies targeting women.

PMID: 12344615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Imbonezamuryango. 1992 Aug;(24):20-30.

[Women, fertility, development: the case of Rwanda].

[Article in French]

Kabagwira A.

PIP: Rwanda's high fertility rate and very rapid population growth have a 
negative impact on the welfare of women. Traditionally, women in Rwanda won the 
respect of their in-laws by having many children, on whom they depended for 
social status, help in agricultural work, and support in old age. Women also 
played a very important role in agricultural production in addition to their 
daily household activities. Migration of men and young people to urban areas has 
left many women totally in charge of agricultural production and has further 
deprived them of their limited leisure time. Low income, legal obstacles, 
literacy, custom and other factors limit women's resulting from their inferior 
social and juridical status conditions their reproductive behavior despite the 
development of a family planning program dating to 1981. The low level of female 
education is an important factor; 33% of women vs. 61% of men are literate. 25% 
of Rwanda's budget is devoted to education, but population growth has impeded 
progress Illiteracy implies a lack of receptivity to new ideas, including family 
planning. A 1983 fertility study in Rwanda showed that marriage age increased 
with education, from 18.8 years for illiterate women to 19.5 for those within 
3-5 years. The number of children declined with the educational attainment of 
the mother, as did infant mortality rates. Considering the physical labor that 
women carry out, their repeated pregnancies are a handicap to the promotion of 
their own and their family's health. The prevailing high fertility exacerbates 
nutritional problems; some 20% of infants weigh less that 2.5 kg at birth. 
Efforts have recently been made to recognize the contribution of women and to 
elevate their status, such as improving their access to education, raising the 
legal marriage to 21, and prohibiting polygamy. The National Office of 
Population was created in 1981 to study population problems and take action to 
resolve them. The national population policy adopted in 1990 seeks to increase 
awareness of population problems, promote use of contraception, improve health, 
promote participation of women in development, and improve population 
distribution. Its specific goals are to reduce the annual growth rate from 3.6% 
in 1990 to 2.0% in 2000, increase contraceptive prevalence from 12% in 1990 to 
48.4% in 2000, and increase life expectancy from 49 years in 1985 to 53.5 years 
in 2000. New strategies have been developed to improve the status of women, and 
other actions that will be needed have been identified.

PMID: 12344671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Sankhya. 1990 Dec;52(3):271-86.

Reconstruction of Indian life tables for 1901-1981 and projections for 
1981-2001.

Malaker CR, Roy SG.

"An attempt has been made to reconstruct life tables for India from 1901-11 to 
1971-81 and to project for the decades 1981-91 and 1991-2001 by adopting a Brass 
relational model. The earlier actuarial life tables seem to have been based on a 
British model of sex differentials in mortality leading to higher life 
expectancies for females--not in tune with Indian experience. Consistency has 
been attained in this study by taking recourse to mortality patterns obtained 
from the Sample Registration System."

excerpt

PMID: 12344757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Popul Today. 1993 May;21(5):1-3, 10.

Population experts debate impact of immigration, longevity's limits, 
population-environment links, and more.

Kalish S.

PIP: Highlights of new research findings from the 1993 annual meeting of the 
Population Association of America are given for the following topics: 
immigration and birth rates of immigrants, longevity, environmental protection 
and girls education, demographic perspectives on world population growth, the 
demographic transition in Africa, China's fertility, AIDS in Africa, and 
residential segregation. A recent report by Los Angeles County showed that 
immigrants consumed considerable county government services, but California 
demographers found that recent immigrants also paid substantially more in 
federal, state, and local taxes. A New Jersey researcher found that for each 1% 
concentration of Puerto Rican born males, and not all immigrants, in New Jersey, 
there was a 4% decrease in average weekly wages of black men. A longevity study 
found that "successful aging factors" overlap rather than add up to contribute 
to good health among the very old. A Duke University researcher countered that 
there was a poor evidence of a natural limit to life; Americans over the age of 
85 years may have the lowest mortality in the world.

PMID: 12344762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Pop Sahel. 1992 Jul;(Spec No):8-10.

[The demographic situation in the Sahel: two times more inhabitants in the year 
2015].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The characteristics of the Sahel's population of some 44 million 
inhabitants are fairly well known due to the censuses and surveys that have been 
conducted in recent decades. All countries in the region except Chad have had at 
least 2 general population censuses. The Sahel accounts for around 6.5% of the 
total African population. Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Chad have the 
largest population in the Sahel, but the highest densities are in Cape Verde 
(98/sq km), Gambia (83/sq km), Senegal (38/sq km), and Burkina Faso (35/sq km). 
Over 65% of the Sahel population is rural. Mauritania, Mali, Niger and Chad have 
some nomads, but sedentarization has been increasing over the past decades 
because of recurring drought. 30-40% of the population in Chad, Cape Verde, 
Senegal, and Mauritania is urban. The total Sahel population is 51.3% female and 
48.7% male. 47% are under age 15 and 4% are 65 or over. The crude birth rate of 
48/1000 is somewhat over the African average of 44. The total fertility rate is 
6.5 overall, 7.2 in Burkina Faso, and 5.2 in Chad. About 1% of women in the 
Sahel use contraception. The highest prevalence rates were 7% in Gambia and 3¿ 
in Senegal between 1977-87. The crude death rate is 18 in the Sahel, 14 in 
Africa, and 9 for the world. Public Health interventions have led to significant 
mortality declines in the region. Cape Verde has the lowest mortality in the 
Sahel region at 8/1000 in 1991. Average life expectancy at birth is 49 for the 
Sahel, 53 for Africa, and 65 for the world. Life expectancy ranges from 42 years 
in Gambia to 66 in Cape Verde. The infant mortality rate of 122/1000 live births 
has a major effect on life expectancy. Infant mortality rates range from 44 in 
Cape Verde to 147 in Burkina Faso. The magnitude of migration is not known, but 
emigration outpaces immigration throughout the region. Internal migration is as 
important as international migration and is the major factor in urban growth in 
the region. The natural increase rate of 3.1% is very high. Natural increase 
ranges from 1.9% in Guinea-Bissau to 3.7% in Mali. The population of the Sahel 
will double in 23 years if the rate of natural increase in maintained.

PMID: 12344772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Biol Zent Bl. 1993;112(1):28-81.

[Mortality in past centuries].

[Article in German]

Stephan P.

"Mortality and life expectancy over a time period of 300 years were studied for 
a relatively large village population [in Germany]. From synchronous and 
diachronous comparisons of the data concerning different social classes of this 
village (subdivided according to their sex and age, social rank, number of 
children/family and birth rank, registration of orphans, half-orphans, 
illegitimate children as well as progeny of old parents and children with a high 
inbreeding degree, and interpretation of causes of death) significant 
differences in mortality were deduced." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12344900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Eur J Popul. 1993;9(1):33-54. doi: 10.1007/BF01267900.

The shape of mortality curves: an analysis of counties in England and Wales, 
1911.

Anson J.

"Previous analysis has shown that life tables may be distinguished by two 
orthogonal pieces of information, the level of mortality in the population and 
the relative shape of the mortality curve. We show that both the regions of 
England and Wales in 1911, and locality types (county boroughs, other urban, and 
rural) differ in the shape of their mortality curves. Using data for the 
administrative counties, we examine the underlying correlates of this 
differentiation, paying particular attention to the socio-economic structure of 
the counties as reflected in their wealth, opportunity levels, and degree of 
urbanisation." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01267900
PMID: 12344902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Pol Popul Rev. 1993;(3):24-41.

Mortality and life expectancy in Poland 10 years before the end of the century.

Indulski J, Kowaleski JT.

"In the article we discuss the mortality rates in Poland by [voivodship] at the 
end of the 80's. In the comparative analysis, we employed general standardized 
rates of deaths for men and women, and coefficients presenting the levels of 
mortality resulting from...circulatory system diseases and malignant 
neoplasms.... In the second part of the paper, we examine the differences 
in...life expectancy by sex and administrative provinces."

excerpt

PMID: 12345060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Pol Popul Rev. 1993;(3):5-23.

Mortality in Poland in the period 1950-1990.

Baran A.

"In this paper, crude, specific [mortality] rates as well as nonstandardized and 
standardized indices of regional mortality differentials are analysed [for 
Poland] for the period 1950-1990, in order to show mortality differentiation, 
its increase by age, sex, and place of residence. Taking into account cause 
specific death rates, the pattern of causes of deaths was found to be similar to 
that existing in the western countries, although the level of standardized 
mortality is higher in Poland. Values of calculated indices of regional 
mortality differentials point to significant differences in mortality by 
voivodship."

excerpt

PMID: 12345061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Scand J Dev Altern. 1992 Sep-Dec;11(3-4):195-209.

A cross-national analysis on determinants of life-expectancy in Africa.

Gbesemete KP, Jonsson D.

The authors estimate and compare life expectancy for 28 African countries in 
1984 and 1987, and relate the length of life to selected socioeconomic 
variables. "The objective of the study is...to identify some determinants of 
life expectancy and achieve some understanding of their underlying structures so 
as to make it possible to know those that can be manipulated by policy in order 
to increase the life expectancy in Africa." Data are from published UN sources.

excerpt

PMID: 12345068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Popul Headl. 1993 Jun;(219):4-5.

Highlights of interventions at meeting for 1994 International Conference on 
Population and Development.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Preparatory Committee for the International Conference on Population 
and Development in Cairo, Egypt (September 5-14, 1994), has received 
recommendations for the conference's final document from various population and 
development organizations. UNFPA's Executive Director, who serves as 
Secretary-General of this Conference, recommends that the document should list 
goals for all countries to achieve over 20 years, particularly a goal of 
dedicating 20% of public sector expenditures to social programs. She also calls 
for developing countries to reach levels of developed countries in maternal and 
infant mortality, life expectancy, education, gender equality, and access to the 
entire spectrum of family planning services. The Conference should affirm 
reproductive rights. Population activities of official development assistance 
should increase from 1.5% to 4%. Representatives from other groups and/or 
countries echo her concerns, but some want to accord more emphasis to other 
issues as well, including development, demographic aging, employment, the 
disabled, and poverty. The Japanese representative informs the Committee that 
the Government of Japan, UNFPA, and the United Nations University are sponsoring 
an international conference on global population issues in Tokyo during the 
summer of 1994. The Nepalese representative hopes the Conference recommendations 
will be practical, affordable, and appropriate to the objectives of developing 
countries. The Pakistani representative wants the Cairo Conference to build on 
the Bucharest and Mexico City Conferences and on the UN Conference on 
Environment and Development rather than renegotiating them.

PMID: 12345093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Demografie. 1993;35(4):225-35.

[Population development in Czechoslovakia in 1992].

[Article in Czech]

Ales M.

PIP: The author reviews population dynamics in Czechoslovakia in 1992. 
Information is provided on fertility, nuptiality, abortion, contraception, 
mortality, life expectancy, infant mortality, migration, and natural increase. 
(SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

PMID: 12345169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Demografie. 1993;35(4):247-62.

[On mortality in the Czech Republic].

[Article in Czech]

Rabusic L.

"In this article, Czech mortality rates are inspected in a new perspective...the 
levels of mortality constructed in Coale's and Demeny's Regional Model Life 
Tables and in Coale's and Guang Guo's revised edition of the life tables. Czech 
male and female life expectancies are also contrasted with hypothetical ones 
computed by means of Coale's equation which sets a 'standard' pattern of life 
expectancy development in low mortality societies." The impact of past political 
and social systems is also considered. (SUMMARY IN ENG AND RUS)

excerpt

PMID: 12345171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Chin J Popul Sci. 1993;5(1):67-73.

Impact of changes in China's urban mortality on the average life expectancy.

Rao K, Chen Y.

PIP: The differences and changes in gender-specific and age-specific mortality 
during the periods of 1973-1989 were analyzed based on changes in average live 
expectancy (ALE) and disease-induced mortality among China's urban population 
during 1973-1989. The data were obtained from the Center of Health Statistics 
and Information, Ministry of Public Health. During 1973-1980, ALE at birth 
increased from 69.0 to 70.70 among men and from 70.26 to 73.34 among women. 
During 1980-1989, ALE at birth grew to 71.77 among men and 75.62 among women. 
The difference in ALE in birth between men and women increased from 1.26 years 
in 1973 to 3.85 years in 1989. The increase in ALE during 1973-1989 was caused 
mainly by the decline of mortality in each age group below the age of 15. During 
1980-1989, the drop of mortality in the age groups of 45 and above substantially 
affected the increase of ALE. The increase of ALE prior to 1980 was caused 
mainly by the decline of mortality from respiratory (particularly pneumonia 
among lower age groups) and infectious diseases, and the increase during 
1980-1989 was attributed to the drop of mortality caused by cerebrovascular and 
respiratory diseases (particularly chronic bronchitis among the middle-aged and 
elderly population). Among women, mortality caused by malignant tumors dropped 
(e.g., cervical cancer). The decline of mortality caused by cerebrovascular 
diseases in the 1980s accounted for 36.8% of the increase in ALE among men and 
women, respectively, during 1980-1989. The increase in mortality among men 
caused by malignant tumor reduced the increase in their ALE during 1980-1989 by 
-30.8%, mostly among the population above the age of 45, and among men in 
particular. The increase in ALE among the urban population will further slow 
down, mainly because of the decrease in mortality from chronic diseases 
(cerebrovascular diseases and senile chronic bronchitis) among the middle-aged 
and elderly population.

PMID: 12345192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Matekon. 1993 Spring;29(3):69-82.

The epidemiological transition and causes of death in the USSR.

Vishnevskii AG, Shkol'nikov VM, Vasin SA.

"Within the context of the theory of epidemiological transition, an analysis is 
made of life expectancy and its structure as related to the causes of death in 
the USSR and the union republics, and also their lag behind the life expectancy 
level achieved by developed countries."

excerpt

PMID: 12345300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Res Adolesc. 1993;3(2):193-215. doi: 10.1207/s15327795jra0302_5.

The determinants of young women's pregnancy-resolution choices.

Namerow PB, Kalmuss DS, Cushman LF.

PIP: A longitudinal study of young women's pregnancy resolution decision making 
provided evidence of the important role of significant others; also observed was 
a positive association between prior adoption socialization experiences and the 
choice of adoption. Conceptual approaches to decision making considered in the 
analysis included opportunity structures, socialization, social networks, and 
expectancy value theory. Subjects included 527 unmarried women 21 years of age 
or younger who were recruited from US maternity residences and prenatal clinics. 
Mean age was 17 years; 73% of subjects were White. On a descriptive level, the 
adoption choice was more frequent among White women (55%), and those with 
above-average educational aspirations (51%). When the subject's mother was in 
favor of placement, 75% chose adoption and only 18% kept the child; when the 
boyfriend wanted adoption, these statistics were 82% and 34%, respectively. If 
the subject or a close relative had been adopted, 59% chose adoption and 39% 
kept the child. Next, logistic regression was used to develop a multivariate 
analysis of pregnancy resolution decisions. The most significant (p 0.001) 
determinants of pregnancy choice were mother wants placement of child, close 
relative wants placement, and the expectancy that the quality of the mother and 
child's life would be adversely influenced by keeping the child. Significant at 
the 0.01 level were not having a boyfriend or having a boyfriend who wants 
placement. Only 1 demographic variable--women in an age-appropriate grade--was 
significantly associated with adoption. Since adoption is selected by less than 
3% of US women, this outcome was overrepresented in this sample by the inclusion 
of maternity homes as a recruitment site.

DOI: 10.1207/s15327795jra0302_5
PMID: 12345378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Integration. 1993 Dec;(38):23-5.

Improving the quality of life.

Suyono H.

PIP: It is encouraging that most developing countries now have population 
policies, but it is discouraging that some countries have been unable to 
implement their policies. Therefore, Indonesia believes technical cooperation 
should be strengthened among developing countries. International cooperation is 
working in 108 developing countries, but the desired impact has yet to be 
reached, and the quality of life in many countries is still unacceptable. For 
example, life expectancy at birth in developing countries is 14-17 years shorter 
for females and 10-13 years shorter for males as compared to developed countries 
which have superior health and welfare systems. The speed of population growth 
is also hindering efforts to help improve living conditions, and the biggest 
increase in growth will occur in Asia and Africa. This will increase the numbers 
of poor, hungry, and illiterate in developing countries and will lead to a lack 
of arable land, deterioration in education, and increase in unsafe sanitation. 
In order to slow population growth, quality family planning (FP) services must 
be provided to those who want them. By the year 2000, developed countries and 
donors should be ready to provide half of the required US$10.5 billion to FP 
services in developing countries. In Indonesia, population programs and policies 
have been governed by the National FP Coordinating Board as well as by the State 
Ministry for Population and the Environment, which was divided into two 
ministries in 1993 in order to deal with the enormity and seriousness of the two 
issues.

PMID: 12345388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Afr Women Health. 1993 Apr-Jun;1(3):1-4.

International Women's Day address.

Museveni HE.

PIP: The government of the National Resistance Movement of Uganda has 
consistently supported the socioeconomic and political development of women. 
Thus, women participate in politics right from the village committees to the 
National Resistance Council. Women are saluted for initiating community efforts 
through the Safe Motherhood programme. In Uganda, life expectancy is estimated 
at 53 years, the crude death rate at 20 deaths per 1000 people, the infant 
mortality rate at 110 deaths per 1000, and the under-five child mortality rate 
at 180/1000 live births. During the 1960s, malaria had been brought under 
control, and the majority of the population had access to good quality medical 
care. The political turmoil and economic decline of the 1970s and early 1980s 
grossly affected health delivery. Government health expenditure declined from 
5.3% of the budget in 1972 to 4.3% in 1983. In the rehabilitation strategy, the 
share of the health sector rose to 8% of the FY 1992/93 budget. The Ministry of 
Health facilities can cover only 30% of the population. 50% of the annual deaths 
are caused by preventable diseases: malaria causes 15% of the deaths and 
diarrhea another 8.7%. High fertility rates, coupled with inadequate maternal 
and child health care, are responsible for a large part of female morbidity and 
mortality. The maternal mortality rate is estimated at 500 per 100,000 live 
births, mainly resulting from hemorrhage, infections, obstructed labor, and 
abortion. Only 26% of the women deliver in health institutions, 23% use 
traditional birth attendants, and 51% give birth at home. 18.4% of children 
under 5 years are moderately malnourished. Health workers should educate 
expecting and nursing mothers on child and maternal nutrition. In rural areas 
about 20% and in urban areas about 50% have access to safe water. To provide 
clean and safe water needs the co-operation of communities and non-governmental 
organizations. Women are involved in developmental activities through 
non-governmental organizations and various women's groups such as the National 
Association of Women's Organizations of Uganda.

PMID: 12345401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Integration. 1994 Jun;(40):51.

Contraceptive revolution.

Segal SJ.

PIP: Global population will increase by almost 1 billion people in the 1990s, 
the largest 10-year increase ever recorded. In 1994 alone, population will 
surpass 5.7 billion. The prospect of double-digit billions of people is 
worrisome, especially since these numbers may affect global warming, supplies of 
fresh water, destruction of rain forests, industrial pollution, and sustainable 
development. Yet, many indicators of quality of life show that people enjoy a 
better quality of life today than they did 100 years ago. Between India's 
independence and now, life expectancy increased by 20 years, infant mortality 
decreased 2-fold, literacy increased, and the food supply stabilized. Even 
though India's population has almost tripled since 1947, its economy increased 
rapidly and is 1 of the world's top 10 economies. University enrollment stands 
at 4.5 million. Agricultural production has exceeded demand. India represents 
the potential for human achievement through technological advancement and social 
organization. If the world's first national family planning program had been 
more successful when it began in 1952 in an India of 350 million people, India's 
population would be around 500 million instead of the expected 1 billion in 
2000. All countries need to achieve a sustainable balance between human numbers 
and needs and natural resources. Family planning is an essential, cost-effective 
part of any development strategy. Family planning use has reduced fertility from 
6 to 3.6 in developing countries. In 1965, only 8% used contraception, while 
more than 50% use it now. The most remarkable family planning/fertility 
reduction successes are Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, and 
Thailand. Sufficient investment in family planning is needed if significant 
declines in fertility are to occur. More than 90% of the developing world's 
people are in countries with official family planning programs. Cost-effective 
assistance by donors and developing countries implementing their own sustainable 
development policies should curb population growth.

PMID: 12345685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Safe Mother. 1994 Mar-Jun;(14):12.

In Eastern Europe and former Soviet republics, maternal deaths become more 
common.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Maternal mortality is becoming more common in Central and Eastern Europe 
and the newly independent states of the former Soviet Union, reflecting a 
decline in women's health because of economic and maternity care problems. Women 
are vulnerable to the economic and social disruption in Central and Eastern 
Europe and the former Soviet Union. A recent conference organized by the World 
Health Organization Regional Office for Europe addressed women's health in these 
countries. The gap between the health of women in the former socialist countries 
and those in the rest of Europe seems to be widening. A woman in Turkmenistan 
can expect to live 10 years less than a woman in the European Union. In 
Lithuania and Poland, female life expectancy fell during the early 1990s. 
Maternal mortality in the newly independent states is twice as high as in 
Central and Eastern Europe and four times higher than in Western Europe. 
Although maternal mortality in Albania and Romania fell dramatically after 
abortion was legalized a few years ago, levels are still well above the average 
for Europe. The risk of pregnancy-related death is increasing in Lithuania, 
Kyrgyzstan, and St. Petersburg, some of it on account of better reporting 
systems. However, increases in maternal death are also the result of 
deteriorating socioeconomic conditions, inadequate health systems, and use of 
abortion rather than contraception to regulate fertility. The role of midwives 
is severely limited; newborn babies are separated from their mothers; 
information about treatment options is lacking; and financial costs of health 
care are growing.

PMID: 12345696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Int J Health Sci. 1992;3(3-4):157-66.

Trends in regional and socio-economic mortality differentials in Finland.

Valkonen T.

Trends in mortality in Finland are reviewed over the past 20 years. The author 
notes that "Finnish female life expectancy has increased more than five years 
since 1965-1969 and it is now slightly higher than the average in Western 
Europe. It is also almost five years higher than the average life expectancy in 
Eastern Europe. The male life expectancy has also risen by more than five 
years...." However, the author also states that regional differences in 
mortality have not diminished over this period, despite prevention programs 
designed to reduce such differences. Furthermore "socio-economic differences in 
mortality have increased during the same period among men, but had been 
relatively stable among the women."

excerpt

PMID: 12345858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Grassroots Dev. 1994;18(2):2-12.

The quiet revolution. Child survival comes of age.

Bendahmane DB.

PIP: Programs to reduce infant and child mortality have led to improvements in 
most countries of the world, developed and developing alike. These improvements 
can be seen graphically on maps produced by the USAID Child Survival Program 
which was launched in 1985 and which provided a "package" of health 
interventions that has led to a 10% mortality decline. These interventions have 
led to an increase in life expectancy in developing countries from 50 years in 
1965 to over 60 years in 1986. Unfortunately, the children whose lives have been 
saved face a cruel paradox because their prospects for improving their lives are 
slim. They are the victims of deepening poverty, the stresses of urban life, and 
war and violence. In addition, the education which could allow them to escape 
their fate is largely denied to them. Although 90% of the children in developing 
countries enter school, an estimated 100 million drop out before grade 5. To 
make matters worse, most of the child survivors live in countries where the 
young age of the majority of the citizens is straining government resources. 
Even young people in the developed world are not immune from these problems; in 
the US, children are worse off than they were 25 years ago. While the struggle 
to increase child survival must continue, the world must also nurture the 
children who survive. The vicious cycle of population growth, poverty, and 
environmental degradation (PPE), which causes and is exacerbated by political 
and social instability, has been weakened by child survival programs which have 
reduced fertility rates. Education, especially of girls, also has a positive 
effect on the spiral. The effects of education, health and nutrition, and family 
planning programs can create a "virtuous" cycle which can increase gross 
domestic income and equity of income distribution (resulting in shared growth 
and "human capital accumulation"). Such initiatives as innovative community 
youth programs and new financing mechanisms can have a longterm positive effect 
on the virtuous cycle if the political will exists to follow through on them. 
Otherwise, the PPE downward spiral will be the dominant mode of underdevelopment 
in the next century.

PMID: 12345889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Cah Mediterr Orient Monde Turco Iran. 1993 Jul-Dec;(16):297-314.

[Recent demographic trends in Turkey].

[Article in French]

Behar C.

PIP: Coverage of Turkey's vital registration system remains incomplete, and it 
cannot yet be used to measure annual population changes. Data and demographic 
indices based on the 1990 census and the 1989 National Demographic Survey are 
the most recent available. Turkey's population in 1990 was 56 million. The 
proportion urban increased to 59% from 49.2% in 1980. Nearly 35% of the 
population was under 15 years old, and the median age was 21.6 for males and 
22.3 for females. The average age at first marriage in 1989 was 24.8 for men and 
21.8 for women. Mortality has been in continuous decline. The crude death rate 
dropped from 16.4/1000 in 1960-65 to slightly under 8 in 1989. Life expectancy 
at birth was 63.3 for men and 66 for women. The infant mortality rate declined 
from 166 in 1965-70 to 85 in 1989. Rural or urban residence and maternal 
educational level were the most significant determinants of infant mortality 
differentials. Turkey's total fertility rate declined from 6.2 in 1960 to 4.3 in 
1978 and 3.4 in 1988-89. The crude birth rate declined from around 40/1000 in 
1968 to under 28/1000 in 1989. Fertility began to decline in the last third of 
the nineteenth century in Istanbul and other large cities of the Ottoman Empire. 
Istanbul's total fertility rate was a relatively low 3.9 even before World War 
I. Turkey adopted a policy to slow demographic growth in the mid 1960s, and 
family planning activities were supported by nongovernmental organizations. The 
direct impact of these policies on demographic behavior appears to have been 
somewhat limited, and the use of traditional methods of birth limitation remains 
widespread. Abortion was legalized in 1983 and is available at public hospitals. 
The proportion of married women aged 15-49 who use contraception increased from 
38% in 1973 to 63% in 1988. Regional differentials in demographic indices are 
significant in Turkey, with the Anatolian East and Southeast lagging behind 
other regions in fertility and mortality decline, contraceptive usage, and other 
indicators. Turkey thus appears to be divided into a region in which the 
demographic transition is well advanced and one where it is proceeding more 
slowly.

PMID: 12345976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Demos. 1993;(6):10-1.

[Maternal mortality: levels, trends, and differentials].

[Article in Spanish]

Langer A, Lozano R, Hernandez B.

PIP: Maternal mortality in Mexico has declined significantly over the past half 
century. The maternal mortality rate was 53/10,000 live births in 1940 and 5.1 
in 1990. The greatest and most rapid decline occurred in the 1940s. The maternal 
mortality rate is still too high, and in addition the differential between 
Mexican rates and those of the developed countries has increased. The average 
age at maternal death is 29 years, a full 40 years less than potential life 
expectancy. The risk of death from causes related to reproduction varies 
substantially by educational level. Of all maternal deaths between 1986 and 
1991, 26% were in illiterate women, 33% in women with incomplete primary, and 
24% in those with complete primary. In 1990, the average female school 
attainment was complete primary. The maternal mortality rate was eight times 
higher among illiterate women and five times higher in those not completing 
primary than in those finishing preparatory. Geographically, states with low 
maternal mortality rates of under 3.1 are mainly located in the north and those 
with high maternal mortality of over 6.0 are in the south. The central zone is 
an intermediate area. The 1991 maternal mortality rates of Oaxaca, Puebla, 
Tlaxcala, Veracruz, and the state of Mexico are similar to those of Nuevo Leon 
30 years ago or Aguascalientes, Sonora, and Baja California 20 years ago. 72% of 
maternal deaths in the 1980s occurred in rural areas. The rates were 6.5/10,000 
in rural areas and 4.1/10,000 in urban areas. The maternal mortality rate also 
increases with marginalization. An index of marginalization constructed with 
census data using multivariate techniques showed that fertile aged women in very 
marginalized municipios had maternal mortality rates of 11.5/10,000, or a risk 
of death three times greater than women in municipios scoring low for 
marginalization. Maternal mortality continues to be a priority public health 
problem in Mexico. Because so many maternal deaths are preventable, maternal 
mortality is one of the most revealing indicators of social inequality.

PMID: 12346036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Indian J Matern Child Health. 1991;2(3):70-1.

Strategies for nutritional improvement.

Gill KS.

PIP: India has achieved self-sufficiency in the production of food grains, yet 
the production of milk, legumes, vegetables, oils and fats, eggs, and meat is 
far short of the needs of the population. The Indian diet predominantly 
comprises cereals, and the diets of expectant and nursing mothers as well as 
children are grossly deficient in protective foods. Serious nutritional 
inadequacies have resulted in low birth weight, retarded growth, and nutritional 
deficiencies (protein energy malnutrition in preschool children, vitamin A 
deficiency, iron deficiency in women of reproductive age, and iodine deficiency 
disorders among neonates and schoolchildren). General malnutrition is prevalent 
in 25% of the rural and 20% of the urban population. Deficiency symptoms of 
vitamin B complex and vitamin C are also not uncommon. 37% of the population of 
India lives below the poverty limit, the literacy rate is only 52.1% (39.4% for 
women), safe drinking water is scarce, nutritional ignorance is rampant, there 
is a lack of personal hygiene, and poor sanitation all account for malnutrition. 
A number of government and nongovernmental organizations' programs have 
attempted to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living of the 
people. Some of them include the integrated child development services, special 
nutritional program, national vitamin A deficiency prophylaxis program, national 
anemia prophylaxis program, national goiter control program, midday meal 
program, special class feeding programs, universal immunization program, 
nutritional and health education through the mass media as well as the 
observance of world food day and world health day. The national health policy 
gives high priority to the promotion of family planning, the provision of 
primary health care, and the acceleration of welfare programs for women and 
children. As a result of policies and programs of health and nutrition, the 
infant, child, and maternal mortality rates have declined and life expectancy at 
birth has risen.

PMID: 12346051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Cah Que Demogr. 1993 Spring;22(1):153-78.

[Interprovincial migration among foreign-born Canadians, 1981-1986].

[Article in French]

Belanger A.

"This article analyzes the spatial distribution as well as interprovincial 
migration of foreign-born persons living in Canada, using data from the 1986 
census. The focus is placed on differences observed in migratory behaviour 
between native-born Canadians and those born abroad. Net migration patterns as 
well as the propensity to migrate by place of origin and destination are 
presented for different population groups according to birthplace. Finally, 
multiregional life tables are used to evaluate the effect of these migratory 
differentials on the retentive force exerted by the various regions." (SUMMARY 
IN ENG AND SPA)

excerpt

PMID: 12346105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Jinruigaku Zasshi. 1990;98(4):513-20. doi: 10.1537/ase1911.98.513.

A simulation model for migrations and dispersals of prehistoric human 
populations.

Ohba T, Masaki M, Ohtsuka R.

PIP: A new simulation model was constructed to estimate demographic processes of 
prehistoric human populations who migrated and dispersed, particularly to 
uninhabited habitats. The characteristics of the simulation model are: the 
minimum component is an individual with sex and age properties; each 
individual's death is determined in each year by comparing the age-specific 
probability of dying and a random number; childbirth of each woman of 
reproductive age in each year is determined by the age-specific probability of 
childbirth and a random number; sex ratio at birth is fixed at 1.05, and each 
newborn baby's sex is determined by a random number; people live in settlements; 
each settlement is located in a cell on a hexagonal-linkage land and the cells 
temporarily number 64 (8x8); each cell has its own optimal carrying capacity; 
and the net reproduction rate (NRR) is used for determining the speed of 
population increase in each cell. The preliminary trial applied the following 
conditions: 64 cells, carrying capacity of each cell is 160, age-specific 
probability of dying was based on the life table of prehistoric Maori in New 
Zealand (infant mortality rate of 157/1000 and life expectancy of 23.49 years). 
500-year-interval changes of the total population of all cells increased almost 
exponentially to the year 2000 from 346 persons at year 500 to 2208 at year 
2000. It gradually increased further and peaked at about 10,000 at the year 
5000. By year 8000 all the cells were inhabited with a total population of 
10,978. The population in the year 2000 was 27.6 times more than in year zero. 
The intergenerational interval of 25 years yielded a NRR of 1.042. During the 
period between the year 2000 and the year 4000 the population increased by 3.42 
times corresponding to a NRR of 1.015. After the year 5000 population increase 
declined to almost zero with a NRR of almost 1.00. Preliminary trials have 
produced satisfactory results.

DOI: 10.1537/ase1911.98.513
PMID: 12346147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Pak Dev Rev. 1994 Winter;33(4 Pt 2):1123-37.

Safe motherhood in South Asia: current status and strategies for change.

Sathar ZA, Raza B.

PIP: Already large, the population of South Asia is growing rapidly. Stable and 
high levels of fertility along with declining mortality have built a population 
in which approximately 45% of the total is younger than 15 years old. Women in 
South Asia comprise almost one-third of the world's female population. The 
average woman in the region marries young and begins to bear children shortly 
thereafter. While fertility has been declining in most of India and Bangladesh, 
and is already relatively low in Sri Lanka, levels of fertility have not 
declined dramatically in Nepal and Pakistan. Contraception is used at moderate 
levels in India and Bangladesh, but almost not at all in Nepal and Pakistan. 
Contraceptive use rates in the region, with the exception of Sri Lanka, remain 
far lower than the average of less developed countries which is 45%. Female life 
expectancy in South Asia does not exceed that of males by very much and is lower 
than that of males in Bangladesh, Maldives, and Nepal. High levels of maternal 
mortality and excess mortality among females during the postneonatal period and 
between ages 1 and 5 are principal reasons for the situation. Gender 
differentials in mortality in South Asia are explained followed by consideration 
of health, fertility, and women's status, and strategies needed to promote safe 
motherhood.

PMID: 12346194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Genus. 1993 Jul-Dec;49(3-4):147-63.

Population policies in industrialized nations: reactive or proactive?

Serow WJ, Sly DF.

PIP: This paper considers policy shifts regarding demographic behavior in 
industrialized countries in light of both trends in such behavior over the 
recent past as well as projections of this behavior according to the United 
Nations mid-range assessments prepared in 1988. Recent trends in population 
