change and their projections were presented in a group of four industrialized 
regions and the appropriateness of policy and policy change in light of 
perceptions was also considered for future policy direction. Demographic change 
in industrialized nations from 1965 to 2025 revealed that the population would 
grow to 1.5 billion; however, the share of northern and western Europe would 
decline from 21% to 16%. Fertility would remain 5-10% below replacement level. 
There would also be a further increase of 4 years in life expectancy until 2025, 
with the longest extensions in eastern Europe (5 years or 8%). During the past 
several decades the industrial regions' populations residing in urban areas has 
risen from 62% to 72%, and this is projected to continue to rise to 79% by 2025, 
with the greatest increases in southern and eastern Europe. The share of 
dependents who are at least 65 years old is likely to double from its initial 
level of about 25%. Government views on demographic behavior from 1976 and 1989 
are also compared and summarized. Perception and policies on the rate of 
population growth changed in 6 countries between 1976 and 1989. Cyprus and 
Hungary had shifted policies towards enhancing the rate of population growth. 
Regarding the fertility rates, 8 countries changed perceptions; in Switzerland, 
Cyprus, and Romania the policy regarding access to contraception was changed. 
Regarding international migration, 10 governments reported a shift in their 
perception and 4 indicated previous dissatisfaction for the change, which became 
more restrictive. Regarding mortality, 8 countries considered that the level had 
become unacceptable, 4 of these in eastern Europe.

PMID: 12346223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Genus. 1993 Jul-Dec;49(3-4):205-8.

Additions to Pollard's "fun with Gompertz".

Krishnamoorthy S, Kulkarni PM.

"In a recent paper, Pollard (1991) has demonstrated that under the Gompertz law 
of mortality quick accurate or approximate answers can be obtained to many 
queries on survival. Some of Pollard's formulae can also be developed in the 
context of multiple decrement life tables so as to arrive at simple solutions to 
problems on the probability of death due to a given cause and the effect of the 
elimination of a cause of death. It is realized that the cause-specific force of 
mortality may not obey the Gompertz law. Still, it may be possible to group the 
causes in such a way that for each group the Gompertz curve provides a good 
approximation."

excerpt

PMID: 12346227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Jinko Mondai Kenkyu. 1994 Jul;50(2):73-96.

[[Marital status life tables for Japan: 1975, 1980, 1985, and 1990]].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikenoue M, Takahashi S.

PIP: Marital status life tables are presented for Japan for the years 1975, 
1980, 1985, and 1990. The tables show marital status by sex at each year of age 
up to age 90.

PMID: 12346238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Popul Bull. 1994 Dec;49(4):1-52.

Population change in the former Soviet Republics.

Haub C.

PIP: Demographic trends in the former Soviet Republics and Russia are summarized 
and discussed in this publication. The former Soviet Republics in Europe as well 
as Georgia and Armenia had completed or almost completed their demographic 
transition before October 1991. Other Central Asian republics experienced 
reduced mortality, but, despite rapid declines, fertility is still above 
replacement level (at 3-4 children per woman). The economic and social 
dislocation of the breakup of the republics has hastened fertility decline. The 
annual population growth rate of the USSR in the mid-1980s was 0.9%; this rate 
declined to 0.4% in 1991, and the decline has continued. The 1991 population of 
the USSR was 289.1 million. Between 1989 and 1991, the crude birth rate was 
18/1000 population, and the crude death rate was 10/1000. The net migration rate 
of -4/1000 helped to reduce growth. Total fertility in the USSR was 2.3 children 
in 1990. In Russia, fertility declined from 1.9 in 1990 to 1.4 in 1993. The 
preferred family size in Russia was 1.9 in 1990 and 1.5 in 1993. This decline 
occurred due to lack of confidence in the economy and insufficient income. Only 
19% of women used contraception in 1990. Marriages declined after 1990. Age 
pyramids were similar in the republics in that there was a narrowing in the 
proportion aged 45-49 years, and the male population aged over 65 years was 
diminished, due to the effect of World War II. The cohort of those aged 20-24 
years in 1992 was very small due to the small parental birth cohort. The 
differences in the republics was characterized as broad-based in the younger 
ages because of high fertility. The number of childbearing women will remain 
large. Life expectancy has been 70 years since the 1950s and has declined in 
some republics due to substandard health care, lack of job safety measures, and 
alcoholism. Some republics experienced increased life expectancy, but, after 
1991, mortality increased. Tajikistan had the highest infant mortality of 
47/1000 live births in 1993. A demographic profile provided for each republic 
offers several population projection scenarios.

PMID: 12346298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Pop Sahel. 1995 Mar;(22):12-4.

[Population aging in the Sahel: a process of contrasts].

[Article in French]

Kouame A, Richmond T.

PIP: Demographic aging has been occurring in developing countries over many 
years. The size of the elderly population in Africa is steadily rising, yet its 
proportion relative to the entire population remains low. Demographic aging in 
Africa is occurring without a corresponding decrease in the proportion of the 
youth. Africa maintains high fertility, while mortality has decreased 
considerably and the quality of life has improved. Thus, demographic aging is a 
corollary of development. It can have negative consequences for society as well 
as for the elderly themselves if aging is not addressed. In the case of Africa, 
some demographers think that fertility will remain the most immediate 
determining cause of demographic aging due to its impact on population 
structure. Thus, aging will remain insignificant for a long time. Other 
demographers think that mortality is the leading determining factor of 
demographic aging because life expectancy in the advanced ages in developing 
countries matches that in developed countries. This view reinforces the 
insignificance of demographic aging in Africa. Gains in life expectancy in 
Africa could be attributed to a reduction in infant mortality. Stagnant 
fertility combined with reduced infant mortality contributes to a very 
pronounced rejuvenation of African populations. Demographic aging is not yet an 
important phenomenon in Mali. Mali is very open to emigration, which changes the 
population structure because the economically active age group leaves. 6.2% of 
the population of Mali were elderly in 1987, and 6.3% were in 1976. Demographic 
aging results in an increase in widows. It will lead to a variety of family 
structures, which could mean a different status for the elderly. Population 
research and policies should address the changes in the quality of life of the 
elderly.

PMID: 12346444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Indian J Matern Child Health. 1995 Jul-Sep;6(3):61-5.

Life cycle of maternal health and child health.

Ghosh S.

PIP: This editorial presents data on maternal and child health and mortality in 
India. Since 1946, government health recommendations have recognized the high 
rate of mortality affecting women and children as well as the extent of 
malnutrition and disease they suffer. The Eighth Five-Year Plan has set specific 
goals for the years 2000 in terms of the infant, under age five years, and 
maternal mortality rate; the crude birth and death rates; life expectancy; 
elimination of poliomyelitis and neonatal tetanus; immunization coverage; and 
delivery by trained attendant. A discussion of recent data reveals that only 
slow declines have occurred in neonatal mortality and that a significantly 
higher age specific death rate for 0-4 years exists in rural than in urban 
areas. Malnutrition is shown to affect nearly half of all children and to 
contribute to 60% of all child deaths. Irrational drug use is also a major 
health problem. The family planning program has been burdened with targets and 
has focused on sterilization in women over age 35. This approach has had little 
effect on the birth rate. Tabulation of the relationship between birth rate, 
infant mortality rate, and marriage age shows the importance of marriage age. A 
table also illustrates the percentage of births by type of attendant in rural 
and urban areas. The low status of women is seen as contributing to the problem, 
with females having a higher death rate than males until age 35. While these 
statistics are pessimistic, some organizations are producing excellent work in 
an effort to solve these problems.

PMID: 12346498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. AIDS Anal Afr. 1999 Aug-Sep;10(2):10.

Human development and HIV / AIDS: the use of data.

Sendah M.

PIP: This paper reviews the 1998 Zimbabwe Human Development Report, addressing 
the issue of HIV/AIDS. The report cites statistics only up to 1994, despite 
significant changes in HIV statistics after that year. The HIV/AIDS epidemic was 
not associated with the economy or human development. It was not explained why 
HIV/AIDS is linked to the worsening morbidity and mortality levels, life 
expectancy, infant, child and maternal mortality rates. These omissions may be 
due to sheer oversight, conceptual limitations and difficulties in getting 
relevant HIV/AIDS and other population data. Consolidation of data sources is 
vital when discussing policy planning, resource allocation, program 
implementation, and motivating commitment of decision-makers involved in health 
development.

PMID: 12346533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. AIDS Anal Afr. 1999 Aug-Sep;10(2):11.

The HIV / AIDS epidemic in SADC.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This paper discusses the increasing HIV/AIDS prevalence in southern Africa. 
One-third of the global population of HIV-infected people live in southern 
Africa. Additionally, about an estimated 12% of the adult population is 
infected. The effects of the epidemic are measured by: 1) decreased life 
expectancy; 2) increased orphaning; and 3) higher rates of infant and child 
mortality. There were an estimated 2,214,000 orphans from the HIV/AIDS epidemic 
in 1998. The impact of HIV/AIDS mortality on life expectancy was viewed for the 
first time in the 1997 Human Development Report. The report was an effort by the 
UN Development Program to assess the prevalence of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

PMID: 12346534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1987;14:257-60.

National Rehabilitation and Development Plan, 1984-1987.

Bolivia.

PIP: This document reprints sections of Bolivia's National Rehabilitation and 
Development Plan for 1984-87. The plan identifies Bolivia's greatest problem as 
the low growth rate of its productive population and calls for a redistribution 
of population in accordance with the optimal exploitation of the country's 
natural resources. A further objective, contingent upon a substantial 
improvement in the nutrition and health of the population, is to improve the 
country's educational system. The growth rate of the population must be 
increased in accordance with a strategy that allows productivity to increase 
even faster. The required changes in demographics include a rapid increase in 
life expectancy at birth, an increase in agriculturally-oriented immigration, 
and moderate urban growth. Specific policies include providing education to 
increase literacy, promoting breast feeding and health as well as the rights of 
women, eliminating sex discrimination in formal education, reducing mortality, 
influencing migration and population settlements, and promoting agricultural 
technology. Specific health initiatives should lead to increased accessibility 
to medical care, research to identify health problems related to specific 
populations, promotion of breast feeding, promotion of community participation 
in provision of health services, development of sanitation programs, and 
promotion of sex education to reduce the incidence of unsafe abortion.

PMID: 12346656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1987;14:283-6.

Ordinance No. 87-015, Economic and Social Development Plan of Niger, 1987-1991, 
30 April 1987.

Niger.

PIP: This document contains major provisions of the Economic and Social 
Development Plan of Niger (1987-91) and Niger's 1987 Ordinance No. 87-16 
containing the National Charter. The development plan notes the problems 
attendant upon Niger's population growth and calls for voluntary, not coercive, 
measures to manage population growth. A program of action is outlined that 
involves a reduction in mortality and morbidity, an emphasis on family planning 
programs, demographic research and education, and provision of population 
information. The reprinted portions of Niger's National Charter define national 
unity; call for improvement in the status and education of women; and guarantee 
freedom of movement and of residence as well as the right to education and to 
health. Specific actions sought include making basic education obligatory, 
improving literacy, protecting health by increasing life expectancy and 
improving quality of life, protecting the family, protecting the handicapped and 
the aged, and providing sex education for young people. The foundation of the 
population policy of Niger will be to improve living conditions and the health 
of the people. Efforts will be made to allow women to master the appropriate 
technologies to lighten the burden of their domestic work and free them for 
training activities. Specific actions are delineated to protect agricultural 
resources, reduce desertification, improve housing conditions, and address 
urbanization.

PMID: 12346671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Pak Dev Rev. 1993 Winter;32(4 Pt 2):1081-93.

An indirect view of the fertility changes in Pakistan.

Afzal M, Kayani MF, Mohammad A.

PIP: Data on children ever born from surveys conducted between 1984 and 1988 
provide evidence for fertility decline in Pakistan and little evidence for a 
"zig zag" pattern of variations in the levels of the birth rate reported in 
surveys conducted between 1962 and 1988. This study is concerned with the 
indirect estimation of the crude birth rate (CBR). Input data is available on 
age specific mortality and the age distribution of the population. CBR was 
calculated on the basis of the life table method. The estimation of CBR from 
1962-65 to 1979 revealed a declining trend, which also appeared in estimations 
based on survey data after 1979. Estimation of CBR based on infant and child 
mortality risks showed declining trends through 1979, a slight elevation in 
infant mortality in 1984, and then decline followed by a higher increase in 
1988. The increased risk of infant mortality was interpreted as an artifact of 
the data. Further analysis of the correlation between infant and child mortality 
risks in the ordinary least squares equations indicated that 50% of the 
variation in infant mortality risk was explained by child mortality risk 
variation between 1962 and 1979. The adjusted values were then used to estimate 
mortality between 1984 and 1988, which indicated similar values (91/1000 births) 
as the 1990-91 survey data. In the ordinary least squares examination of the 
association between child mortality risks and the estimates of crude birth rates 
between 1962 and 1979, the finding was that 70% of the variation in the values 
of CBR were explained by variations in child mortality risks. The indirect 
estimation for 1984 to 1988 however showed elevated CBR, which was construed to 
be due to increased infant mortality risks, which may be in error. When CBR was 
estimated using the proportions in the population aged 0-4 years and mortality 
risk, the life table estimates showed a reduced rate by 3.3 for 1984 and by 1.1 
for 1988, and with other substitutions, lower CBR. The conclusion from the 
exploration of different methods of calculating was that CBR may be even lower 
that 37/1000, and the rate of natural increase may be lower than 2.7%.

PMID: 12346806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Boll Demogr Stor. 1994;(20):95-109.

[Aggregate methods for calculating life tables from incomplete data: the example 
of post-unification Tuscany].

[Article in Italian]

Martelli C, Salvini S, Santini A.

PIP: Various alternative methods are used to estimate trends in mortality in 
Tuscany, Italy, in the period from 1871 to 1881. The focus is on the 
methodological issues raised.

PMID: 12346999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Notas Poblacion. 1995 Jun;23(61):147-76.

[Causes of adult mortality in developing and developed countries with low 
mortality rates].

[Article in Spanish]

Vallin J.

"In a certain number of developing countries, life expectancy levels now 
approach those of the developed world. But, though life expectancies at birth 
may be similar, the infant mortality rate in developing countries remains 
higher, but is compensated by a lower rate of mortality for adults. Is it to be 
expected that as infant mortality rates continue to decline, the developing 
countries will maintain their advantageous adult mortality rates and that life 
expectancy will forge ahead of the level achieved in developed countries?... To 
answer this question, recent trends in adult cause-specific mortality rates in 
four developing countries (Chile, Hong Kong, Mexico, and Costa Rica) were 
compared with those in three industrialized countries (France, Germany and 
Japan). The results were inconclusive. Whilst life expectancies in some of these 
countries may be expected to forge ahead (Chile, Hong Kong), in others the 
margin between their life expectancies and those of developed countries have 
already narrowed." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12347045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):100.

[Iraq].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Iraq is Baghdad. As of 1995, Iraq had a population of 20.4 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $24 billion and $1200. In 1994, Iraq owed 
$75-86 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 3% annually. 
In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 66 years, 93% had access to health 
services, and 77% had access to drinkable water. UNICEF estimates that almost 
100,000 children have died in Iraq since the beginning of the Gulf War, while 
the FAO estimates that the UN embargo against Iraq has precipitated the death of 
560,000 children in the country since the end of the War. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):101.

[Iran].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Iran is Teheran. As of 1995, Iran had a population of 67.3 
million governed by an Islamic republic regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $122 billion and $1820. Per capita income 
declined by 1% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Iran owed $22.7 
billion, then being serviced at $3.7 billion. For the same year, Iran exported 
$19.765 billion in goods and services and imported $16.384 billion. As of 1995, 
the population was growing in size by 2.1% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy 
at birth was 67.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 66 per 1000 births, 80% 
had access to health services, and 89% had access to drinkable water. Other data 
are presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):102.

[Israel].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Israel is Tel-Aviv. As of 1995, Israel had a population of 
5.6 million governed by a parliamentary regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $80.9 billion and $14,900. Per capita 
income grew at 2.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Israel owed $19 
billion. For the same year, Israel exported $16,884 billion in goods and 
services and imported $23.775 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in 
size by 1.5% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 76.5 years and 
the infant mortality rate was 6.6 per 1000 births. Other data are presented on 
the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal 
cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, economics and 
finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):103.

[Jordan].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Jordan is Amman. As of 1995, Jordan had a population of 5.4 
million governed by a parliamentary monarchy regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $5.8 billion and $1390. Per capita 
income declined by 6.3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Jordan owed 
$7.1 billion, then being serviced at $878 million. For the same year, Jordan 
exported $4.151 billion in goods and services and imported $4.783 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 3.3% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 67.9 years, the infant mortality rate was 36 per 1000 
births, 97% had access to health services, and 99% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):104.

[Kuwait].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Kuwait is Kuwait City. As of 1995, Kuwait had a population 
of 1.8 million governed by a monarchy endowed with a parliament regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $25.14 billion 
and $14,360. Per capita income declined by 1.3% per year over the period 
1985-94. In 1994, Kuwait owed $17.24 billion. For the same year, Kuwait exported 
$10.8 billion in goods and services and imported $6.6 billion. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 3.2% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 74.9 years, the infant mortality rate was 18 per 1000 births, 100% had 
access to health services, and 100% had access to drinkable water. Other data 
are presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):105.

[Lebanon].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Lebanon is Beirut. As of 1995, Lebanon had a population of 3 
million governed by a parliamentary republican regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $9.5 billion and $3200. In 
1994, Lebanon owed $2 billion, then being serviced at $122 million. For the same 
year, Lebanon exported $1.532 billion in goods and services and imported $5.476 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 1.8% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 68.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 
34 per 1000 births, 95% had access to health services, and 92% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):106.

[Oman].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Oman is Muscat. As of 1995, Oman had a population of 2.2 
million governed by an absolute monarchy. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $10.1 billion and $5200. Per capita income 
grew at 0.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Oman owed $3.1 billion, 
then being serviced at $525 million. For the same year, Oman exported $5.839 
billion in goods and services and imported $5.558 billion. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 3.9% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 69.6 years, the infant mortality rate was 30 per 1000 births, 96% had 
access to health services, and 84% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):107.

[Palestine].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: As of 1995, Palestine had a population of 2.3 million governed by an 
autonomous regime. 1994 gross national product and per capita income were, 
respectively, $2.4 billion and $1200. Palestine exported $236 million in goods 
and services and imported $1130 million. As of 1995, the population was growing 
in size by 4.2-4.8% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 64.9-67.4 
years and the infant mortality rate was 44 per 1000 births. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):108.

[Qatar].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Qatar is Doha. As of 1995, Qatar had a population of 600,000 
governed by an absolute monarchy. 1994 gross national product and per capita 
income were, respectively, $7.85 billion and $14,540. Per capita income declined 
by 0.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Qatar owed $2.1 billion. For 
the same year, Qatar exported $3.1 billion in goods and services and imported 
$1.8 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.1% annually. 
In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 71 years, the infant mortality rate was 
2.6 per 1000 births, 100% had access to health services, and 89% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):109.

[Syria].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Syria is Damas. As of 1995, Syria had a population of 14.7 
million governed by a military presidential regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $17 billion and $1250. Per capita 
income declined by 2.4% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Syria owed 
$20.6 billion, then being serviced at $1.53 billion. For the same year, Syria 
exported $5.332 billion in goods and services and imported $5.979 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 3.3% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 67.1 years, the infant mortality rate was 39 per 1000 
births, 90% had access to health services, and 74% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):110.

[Turkey].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Turkey is Ankara. As of 1995, Turkey had a population of 
61.9 million governed by a parliamentary republican regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $149 billion and $2450. Per 
capita income grew at 1.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Turkey 
owed $66.3 billion, then being serviced at $9.4 billion. For the same year, 
Turkey exported $32.711 billion in goods and services and imported $30.785 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 1.8% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 67 years, the infant mortality rate was 56 
per 1000 births, % had access to health services, and 92% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):111.

[Yemen].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Yemen is Sanaa. As of 1995, Yemen had a population of 14.5 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $3.7 billion and $280. Per capita income grew 
at 1.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Yemen owed $5.9 billion, then 
being serviced at $360 million. For the same year, Yemen exported $3.069 billion 
in goods and services and imported $3.178 billion. As of 1995, the population 
was growing in size by 3.2% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 
50.7 years, the infant mortality rate was 119 per 1000 births, 38% had access to 
health services, and 32% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented 
on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal 
cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, economics and 
finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):27.

[Algeria].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Algeria is Algiers. As of 1995, Algeria had a population of 
27.9 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $40.2 billion and $1470. Per capita income 
declined by 2.04% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Algeria owed 
$29.898 billion, then being serviced at $5.4 billion. For the same year, Algeria 
exported $9.698 billion in goods and services and imported $12.919 billion. As 
of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.2% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 67.1 years, the infant mortality rate was 55 per 1000 
births, 88% had access to health services, and 68% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):29.

[Angola].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Angola is Luanda. As of 1995, Angola had a population of 
11.1 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $4.6 billion and $430. Per capita income 
declined by 0.9% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Angola owed $10.6 
billion, then being serviced at $1.1 billion. For the same year, Angola exported 
$3 billion in goods and services and imported $1.6 billion. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 3.3% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 46.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 53 per 1000 births, 30% had 
access to health services, and 41% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):31.

[Benin].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo. As of 1995, Benin had a population of 
5.4 million governed by a plural democratic regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $2 billion and $370. Per capita income 
declined by 0.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Benin owed $1.6 
billion, then being serviced at $52 million. For the same year, Benin exported 
$405 million in goods and services and imported $518 million. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 2.9% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 47.6 years, the infant mortality rate was 86 per 1000 births, 18% had 
access to health services, and 51% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):32.

[Botswana].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Botswana is Gaborone. As of 1995, Botswana had a population 
of 1.5 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 gross 
national product and per capita income were, respectively, $4 billion and $2800. 
Per capita income grew at 6.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Botswana owed $691 million, then being serviced at $97 million. For the same 
year, Botswana exported $2.3 billion in goods and services and imported $2.1 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.9% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 64.9 years, the infant mortality rate was 
43 per 1000 births, 89% had access to health services, and 51% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):35.

[Burkina Faso].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Burkina Faso is Ouagadougou. As of 1995, Burkina Faso had a 
population of 10.3 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $3 billion and 
$300. Per capita income declined by 0.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 
1994, Burkina Faso owed $1.1 billion, then being serviced at $43 million. For 
the same year, Burkina Faso exported $495 million in goods and services and 
imported $933 million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.5% 
annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 47.4 years, the infant 
mortality rate was 130 per 1000 births, 49% had access to health services, and 
56% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):37.

[Burundi].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Burundi is Bujumbura. As of 1995, Burundi had a population 
of 6.4 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $898 million and $150. Per capita 
income declined by 1% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Burundi owed 
$1.126 billion, then being serviced at $41 million. For the same year, Burundi 
exported $163 million in goods and services and imported $333 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 50.2 years, the infant mortality rate was 102 per 1000 
births, 80% had access to health services, and 57% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):39.

[Cameroon].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Cameroon is Yaounde. As of 1995, Cameroon had a population 
of 13.2 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 gross 
national product and per capita income were, respectively, $8.735 billion and 
$680. Per capita income grew at 3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Cameroon owed $7.3 billion, then being serviced at $374 million. For the same 
year, Cameroon exported $2.3 billion in goods and services and imported $2.5 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 3% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 56 years, the infant mortality rate was 63 
per 1000 births, 41% had access to health services, and 50% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):40.

[Cape Verde].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Cape Verde is Praia. As of 1995, Cape Verde had a population 
of 400,000 governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $346 million and $910. Per 
capita income grew at 1.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Cape Verde 
owed $169.9 million, then being serviced at $11.9 million. For the same year, 
Cape Verde exported $53 million in goods and services and imported $188 million. 
As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 5.5% annually. In 1992-93, 
life expectancy at birth was 64.7 years and the infant mortality rate was 130 
per 1000 births. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):41.

[Central African Republique].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Central African Republic is Bangui. As of 1995, Central 
African Republic had a population of 3.3 million governed by a presidential 
regime. 1994 gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, 
$1.2 billion and $370. Per capita income declined by 2.8% per year over the 
period 1985-94. In 1994, Central African Republic owed $890.6 million, then 
being serviced at $79.6 million. For the same year, Central African Republic 
exported $185.5 million in goods and services and imported $280.4 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.4% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 49.4 years, the infant mortality rate was 102 per 1000 
births, 45% had access to health services, and 24% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):42.

[Comoros].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Comoros is Moroni. As of 1995, Comoros had a population of 
700,000 governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $249 million and $510. Per capita income 
declined by 1.3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Comoros owed $188.7 
million, then being serviced at $12.7 million. For the same year, Comoros 
exported $59.2 million in goods and services and imported $75.6 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 1.9% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 56 years and the infant mortality rate was 89 per 1000 
births. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):45.

[Congo].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Congo is Brazzaville. As of 1995, Congo had a population of 
2.6 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $1.6 billion and $640. Per 
capita income declined by 2.7% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Congo 
owed $5.275 billion, then being serviced at $1.524 billion. For the same year, 
Congo exported $1.078 billion in goods and services and imported $1.4 billion. 
As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.7% annually. In 1992-93, 
life expectancy at birth was 51.3 years, the infant mortality rate was 84 per 
1000 births, 83% had access to health services, and 38% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):48.

[Ivory Coast].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Cote d'Ivoire is Yamoussoukro. As of 1995, Cote d'Ivoire had 
a population of 14.3 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $7.1 billion 
and $510. Per capita income declined by 5.2% per year over the period 1985-94. 
In 1994, Cote d'Ivoire owed $18.452 billion, then being serviced at $2.144 
billion. For the same year, Cote d'Ivoire exported $3.177 billion in goods and 
services and imported $3.59 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in 
size by 3.2% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 51 years, the 
infant mortality rate was 92 per 1000 births, 30% had access to health services, 
and 76% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):49.

[Djibouti].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Djibouti is Djibouti. As of 1995, Djibouti had a population 
of 600,000 governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $445.1 million and $830. Per capita income 
declined by 2.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Djibouti owed $246.9 
million, then being serviced at $13 million. For the same year, Djibouti 
exported $404 million in goods and services and imported $463.2 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.6% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 48.3 years and the infant mortality rate was 115 per 
1000 births. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):50.

[Egypt].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Egypt is Cairo. As of 1995, Egypt had a population of 62.9 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $42.3 billion and $710. Per capita income grew 
at 1.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Egypt owed $33.358 billion, 
then being serviced at $2.685 billion. For the same year, Egypt exported $15.585 
billion in goods and services and imported $16.121 billion. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 1.9% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 63.6 years, the infant mortality rate was 67 per 1000 births, 99% had 
access to health services, and 90% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):55.

[Gabon].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Gabon is Libreville. As of 1995, Gabon had a population of 
1.3 million governed by a presidential, multiparty regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $3.7 billion and $3,550. Per 
capita income declined by 2.3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Gabon 
owed $3.967 billion, then being serviced at $1.441 billion. For the same year, 
Gabon exported $2.418 billion in goods and services and imported $2.275 billion. 
As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, 
life expectancy at birth was 53.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 94 per 
1000 births, 90% had access to health services, and 68% had access to drinkable 
