water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):56.

[Gambia].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Gambia is Banjul. As of 1995, Gambia had a population of 1.1 
million governed by a military regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $373 million and $360. Per capita income grew 
at 0.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Gambia owed $419.2 million, 
then being serviced at $31.8 million. For the same year, Gambia exported $163.1 
million in goods and services and imported $225.6 million. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 5.3% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 45 years, the infant mortality rate was 132 per 1000 births, and 90% 
had access to health services. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):57.

[Ghana].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Ghana is Accra. As of 1995, Ghana had a population of 17.5 
million governed by a multiparty, presidential regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $7.3 billion and $430. Per 
capita income grew at 1.4% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Ghana owed 
$5.389 billion, then being serviced at $322 million. For the same year, Ghana 
exported $1.395 billion in goods and services and imported $2.123 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.9% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 56 years, the infant mortality rate was 81 per 1000 
births, 60% had access to health services, and 68% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):58.

[Guinea].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Guinea is Conakry. As of 1995, Guinea had a population of 
6.7 million governed by a presidential military regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $3.3 billion and $510. Per 
capita income grew at 1.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Guinea 
owed $3.1 billion, then being serviced at $244 million. For the same year, 
Guinea exported $687 million in goods and services and imported $952 million. As 
of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.9% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 44.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 134 per 1000 
births, 80% had access to health services, and 55% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):59.

[Guinea Bissau].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Guinea Bissau is Bissau. As of 1995, Guinea Bissau had a 
population of 1.1 million governed by a multiparty, presidential regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $253 million 
and $240. Per capita income grew at 1.9% per year over the period 1985-94. In 
1994, Guinea Bissau owed $816 million, then being serviced at $68.7 million. For 
the same year, Guinea Bissau exported $55.4 million in goods and services and 
imported $101.6 million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.1% 
annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 43.5 years, the infant 
mortality rate was 140 per 1000 births, 40% had access to health services, and 
41% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):60.

[Equatorial Guinea].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Equatorial Guinea is Malabo. As of 1995, Equatorial Guinea 
had a population of 400,000 governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross 
national product and per capita income were, respectively, $167 million and 
$430. Per capita income grew at 1.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Equatorial Guinea owed $290.6 million, then being serviced at $22.3 million. For 
the same year, Equatorial Guinea exported $66.1 million in goods and services 
and imported $85.6 million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 
2.55% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 48 years and the infant 
mortality rate was 117 per 1000 births. Other data are presented on the 
country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, 
population distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, 
foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):61.

[Kenya].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Kenya is Nairobi. As of 1995, Kenya had a population of 28.3 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $6.6 billion and $260. Per capita income 
remained stable at 0% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Kenya owed 
$7.273 billion, then being serviced at $1.356 billion. For the same year, Kenya 
exported $2.666 billion in goods and services and imported $2.844 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 55.7 years, the infant mortality rate was 69 per 1000 
births, 77% had access to health services, and 49% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):62.

[Lesotho].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Lesotho is Maseru. As of 1995, Lesotho had a population of 
2.1 million governed by a constitutional monarchy regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $1.4 billion and $700. Per 
capita income grew at 0.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Lesotho 
owed $600 million, then being serviced at $32 million. For the same year, 
Lesotho exported $665 million in goods and services and imported $1.108 billion. 
As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.6% annually. In 1992-93, 
life expectancy at birth was 42.9 years, the infant mortality rate was 79 per 
1000 births, 80% had access to health services, and 47% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):63.

[Liberia].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Liberia is Monrovia. As of 1995, Liberia had a population of 
3 million governed by a government in transition. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $1 billion and $374. In 1994, Liberia 
owed $2.056 billion, then being serviced at $160 million. For the same year, 
Liberia exported $433 million in goods and services and imported $574 million. 
As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 3.2% annually. In 1992-93, 
life expectancy at birth was 41.3 years, the infant mortality rate was 126 per 
1000 births, 39% had access to health services, and 50% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):70.

[Morocco].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Morocco is Rabat. As of 1995, Morocco had a population of 27 
million governed by a constitutional monarchy regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $29.5 billion and $1150. Per 
capita income grew at 1.1% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Morocco 
owed $22.5 billion, then being serviced at $2.981 billion. For the same year, 
Morocco exported $9.096 billion in goods and services and imported $9.901 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 1.8% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 63.3 years, the infant mortality rate was 
68 per 1000 births, 70% had access to health services, and 54% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):71.

[Mauritius].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Mauritius is Port-Louis. As of 1995, Mauritius had a 
population of 1.1 million governed by a parliamentary regime. 1994 gross 
national product and per capita income were, respectively, $3.5 billion and 
$3180. Per capita income grew at 5.6% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Mauritius owed $1.4 billion, then being serviced at $144 million. For the same 
year, Mauritius exported $2.087 billion in goods and services and imported $3.86 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 1.1% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 70.2 years, the infant mortality rate was 
18 per 1000 births, 100% had access to health services, and 97% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):72.

[Mauritania].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Mauritania is Nouakchott. As of 1995, Mauritania had a 
population of 2.3 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $1.1 billion and $480. Per 
capita income grew at 0.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Mauritania 
owed $2.3 billion, then being serviced at $188 million. For the same year, 
Mauritania exported $451 million in goods and services and imported $587 
million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.5% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 51.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 
101 per 1000 births, 45% had access to health services, and 66% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):73.

[Mozambique].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Mozambique is Maputo. As of 1995, Mozambique had a 
population of 16 million governed by a multiparty, presidential regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $1.3 billion 
and $80. Per capita income grew at 3.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 
1994, Mozambique owed $5.5 billion, then being serviced at $361 million. For the 
same year, Mozambique exported $395 million in goods and services and imported 
$1.403 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 3.4% annually. 
In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 46.4 years, the infant mortality rate 
was 148 per 1000 births, 39% had access to health services, and 22% had access 
to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, 
climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):74.

[Namibia].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Namibia is Windhoek. As of 1995, Namibia had a population of 
1.5 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $3 billion and $2030. Per capita income 
grew at 3.4% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Namibia owed $370 
million. For the same year, Namibia exported $1.3 billion in goods and services 
and imported $1.2 billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 
2.6% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 58.8 years, the infant 
mortality rate was 60 per 1000 births, 72% had access to health services, and 
52% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):75.

[Niger].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Niger is Niamey. As of 1995, Niger had a population of 9.2 
million governed by a transitional military regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $2 billion and $230. Per capita income 
declined by 2.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Niger owed $1.6 
billion, then being serviced at $242 million. For the same year, Niger exported 
$254 million in goods and services and imported $351 million. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 3.3% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 46.5 years, the infant mortality rate was 124 per 1000 births, 32% had 
access to health services, and 59% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):76.

[Nigeria].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Nigeria is Abuja. As of 1995, Nigeria had a population of 
111.7 million governed by a military regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $33 billion and $280. Per capita income grew 
at 1.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Nigeria owed $33.5 billion, 
then being serviced at $5.8 billion. For the same year, Nigeria exported $9.795 
billion in goods and services and imported $11.94 billion. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 50.4 years, the infant mortality rate was 84 per 1000 births, 66% had 
access to health services, and 36% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):77.

[Uganda].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Uganda is Kampala. As of 1995, Uganda had a population of 
21.3 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $3.9 billion and $200. Per capita income 
grew at 3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Uganda owed $3.5 billion, 
then being serviced at $173 million. For the same year, Uganda exported $344 
million in goods and services and imported $901 million. As of 1995, the 
population was growing in size by 2.9% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at 
birth was 44.9 years, the infant mortality rate was 115 per 1000 births, 49% had 
access to health services, and 31% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):78.

[Rwanda].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Rwanda is Kigali. As of 1995, Rwanda had a population of 8 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $579 million and $75. Per capita income 
declined by 2.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Rwanda owed $954 
million, then being serviced at $31.5 million. For the same year, Rwanda 
exported $51 million in goods and services and imported $495.6 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.6% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 47.3 years, the infant mortality rate was 110 per 1000 
births, 80% had access to health services, and 51% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):79.

[Sao Tome and Prinicple].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Sao Tome and Principe is Sao Tome. As of 1995, Sao Tome and 
Principe had a population of 100,000 governed by a presidential regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $31 million and 
$250. Per capita income declined by 2.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 
1994, Sao Tome and Principe owed $252 million, then being serviced at $8.7 
million. For the same year, Sao Tome and Principe exported $12.4 million in 
goods and services and imported $46.5 million. As of 1995, the population was 
growing in size by 2.2% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 51 
years and the infant mortality rate was 72 per 1000 births. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):80.

[Senegal].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Senegal is Dakar. As of 1995, Senegal had a population of 
8.3 million governed by a presidential, pluralist regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $5 billion and $610. Per 
capita income declined by 0.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Senegal owed $3.7 billion, then being serviced at $465 million. For the same 
year, Senegal exported $1.349 billion in goods and services and imported $1.74 
billion. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.7% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 49 years, the infant mortality rate was 68 
per 1000 births, 40% had access to health services, and 48% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):81.

[Seychelles].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Seychelles is Victoria. As of 1995, Seychelles had a 
population of 72,000 governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $471 million and $6210. Per 
capita income grew at 4.5% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Seychelles 
owed $170 million, then being serviced at $21 million. For the same year, 
Seychelles exported $291.1 million in goods and services and imported $306.8 
million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 1.1% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 71 years, the infant mortality rate was 76 
per 1000 births, and 85-100% had access to drinkable water. Other data are 
presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):82.

[Sierra Leone].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Sierra Leone is Freetown. As of 1995, Sierra Leone had a 
population of 4.5 million governed by a transitional, military regime. 1994 
gross national product and per capita income were, respectively, $741 million 
and $150. Per capita income declined by 1.9% per year over the period 1985-94. 
In 1994, Sierra Leone owed $1.4 billion, then being serviced at $186 million. 
For the same year, Sierra Leone exported $146 million in goods and services and 
imported $285 million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 2.3% 
annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 39 years, the infant 
mortality rate was 166 per 1000 births, 38% had access to health services, and 
37% had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's 
topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population 
distribution, religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign 
commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):83.

[Somalia].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Somalia is Mogadishu. As of 1995, Somalia had a population 
of 9.3 million governed by no central state regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $835 million and $110. In 1994, 
Somalia owed $2.5 billion, then being serviced at $11 million. For the same 
year, Somalia exported $91 million in goods and services and imported $433 
million. As of 1995, the population was growing in size by 3.1% annually. In 
1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 47 years, the infant mortality rate was 
122 per 1000 births, 27% had access to health services, and 37% had access to 
drinkable water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate 
and vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, 
religions, political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):84.

[Sudan].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Sudan is Khartoum. As of 1995, Sudan had a population of 
28.1 million governed by a military, Islamic regime. 1994 gross national product 
and per capita income were, respectively, $5.9 billion and $250. In 1994, Sudan 
owed $18 billion, then being serviced at $1.3 billion. For the same year, Sudan 
exported $609 million in goods and services and imported $2.209 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.7% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 53 years, the infant mortality rate was 78 per 1000 
births, 51% had access to health services, and 48% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):85.

[Swaziland].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Swaziland is Mbabane. As of 1995, Swaziland had a population 
of 900,000 governed by a monarchy regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $1 billion and $1160. Per capita income 
declined by 1.3% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Swaziland owed $237 
million, then being serviced at $26.7 million. For the same year, Swaziland 
exported $1.016 billion in goods and services and imported $1.083 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 5.7% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 57.5 years and the infant mortality rate was 75 per 1000 
births. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):86.

[Tanzania].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Tanzania is Dodoma. As of 1995, Tanzania had a population of 
29.7 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $3 billion and $100. Per capita income 
grew at 4.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Tanzania owed $7.4 
billion, then being serviced at $548 million. For the same year, Tanzania 
exported $855 million in goods and services and imported $2.067 billion. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 52.1 years, the infant mortality rate was 85 per 1000 
births, 76% had access to health services, and 50% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):87.

[Chad].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Chad is Ndjamena. As of 1995, Chad had a population of 6.4 
million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and per 
capita income were, respectively, $1.2 billion and $190. Per capita income grew 
at 0.9% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Chad owed $816 million, then 
being serviced at $25.3 million. For the same year, Chad exported $181 million 
in goods and services and imported $336 million. As of 1995, the population was 
growing in size by 2.8% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy at birth was 47.5 
years, the infant mortality rate was 122 per 1000 births, 30% had access to 
health services, and % had access to drinkable water. Other data are presented 
on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, principal 
cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, economics and 
finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):93.

[Zaire].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Zaire is Kinshasa. As of 1995, Zaire had a population of 
43.9 million governed by a presidential regime. 1994 gross national product and 
per capita income were, respectively, $6 billion and $135. Per capita income 
declined by 0.8% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, Zaire owed $12.336 
billion, then being serviced at $1.294 billion. For the same year, Zaire 
exported $1.2 billion in goods and services and imported $600 million. As of 
1995, the population was growing in size by 3% annually. In 1992-93, life 
expectancy at birth was 52 years, the infant mortality rate was 93 per 1000 
births, 26% had access to health services, and 39% had access to drinkable 
water. Other data are presented on the country's topography, climate and 
vegetation, demographics, principal cities, population distribution, religions, 
political structure, economics and finances, foreign commerce, and 
transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Jeune Afr. 1996 May 1-14;36(1843-1844):97.

[Saudi Arabia].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PIP: The capital of Saudi Arabia is Riyadh. As of 1995, Saudi Arabia had a 
population of 17.9 million governed by an absolute monarchy. 1994 gross national 
product and per capita income were, respectively, $126.597 billion and $7240. 
Per capita income declined by 1.2% per year over the period 1985-94. In 1994, 
Saudi Arabia owed $17.089 billion. For the same year, Saudi Arabia exported 
$41.5 billion in goods and services and imported $22.893 billion. As of 1995, 
the population was growing in size by 3.5% annually. In 1992-93, life expectancy 
at birth was 69.7 years, the infant mortality rate was 29 per 1000 births, 97% 
had access to health services, and 95% had access to drinkable water. Other data 
are presented on the country's topography, climate and vegetation, demographics, 
principal cities, population distribution, religions, political structure, 
economics and finances, foreign commerce, and transportation and communications.

PMID: 12347116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. World Watch. 1996 Jan-Feb;9(1):22-3.

Russia's population sink.

Nelson T.

PIP: Russia's public health problems, which are a result in part of uncontrolled 
development, are a lesson for developing countries. Trends in births and deaths 
in Russia indicate that as socioeconomic conditions declined in recent years, 
the death rate increased. During 1992-93 the death rate increased from 12.1 per 
1000 population to 14.5, with 75% of the increase due to cardiovascular disease, 
accidents, murder, suicide, and alcohol poisoning. Quality of health care was 
given as one reason for the high cardiovascular disease rate that included 
deaths due to even mild heart attacks. 20-30% of deaths are attributed to 
pollution. 75% of rivers and lakes in the former Soviet Union are considered 
unfit for drinking, and 50% of tap water is unsanitary. An estimated 15% of 
Russia's land area is considered to be an ecological disaster zone. Births 
declined from a peak of 2.5 million in 1987 to 1.4 million in 1994. During this 
same period deaths increased from 1.5 million to 2.3 million. In 1994 deaths 
exceeded births by 880,000. Life expectancy declined from 65 to 57 years for men 
and from 75 years to 71 years for women. Infant mortality is rising. 11% of 
newborns had birth defects, and 60% showed evidence of allergies or vitamin D 
deficiencies. The death rate during pregnancy was 50 per 1000 births, and 75% of 
Russian women experienced complications during pregnancy. Women's health in the 
reproductive years was compromised by gynecological infections. A survey in 1992 
revealed that 75% of Russian women gave insufficient income as a reason for 
reduced childbearing. The social conditions in Russia and the former Soviet 
republics reflect a lack of confidence in the future. Demographic trends are 
affected by a complex set of factors including economic collapse, economic 
change and uncertainty, inadequate health care, and poor environmental 
conditions. These changes occurred during the mid-1980s and before the collapse 
of the Soviet Union in 1991.

PMID: 12347136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Eur J Popul. 1995 Dec;11(4):343-69. doi: 10.1007/BF01267725.

Life table analysis for areas using vital register data.

Congdon P.

"This study considers the utility of parameterised life tables derived by 
survival analysis for comparing mortality between areas, using death 
registration records and accompanying information on the social characteristics 
for each individual deceased. Such methods enable a comparison of summary 
measures of mortality experience such as life expectancy and median age at death 
before and after adjustment for socio-economic variables. In the absence of 
comparable information on the survivor population an approximate life table 
method is investigated as a means of comparing mortality profiles and the 
effects of social factors. Such factors may pertain both to the individuals 
(e.g. their birthplace) or to their small area of residence (e.g. measures of 
area deprivation). These methods also permit a comparison of the impact of 
socio-economic factors on different causes of death. The application is to 
mortality in London over the period 1990-92 and to its constituent boroughs and 
electoral wards."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF01267725
PMID: 12347158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Popul Bull UN. 1995;(39):18-44.

Sex differentials in old-age mortality.

Buettner T.

"This article examines levels and trends of sex differentials in life expectancy 
at older ages for 29 developed countries. Significant sex differentials in life 
expectancy among the elderly have been found--but no common trend among 
countries.... The article concludes that it is necessary to draw more attention 
to old-age mortality, and to sex differentials in particular, since the size and 
relative weight of the elderly segment of the population continues to grow. 
Also, it seems to be necessary to include specific goals for old-age mortality 
in national health strategies aimed at reducing overall mortality and narrowing 
inequalities between social groups."

excerpt

PMID: 12347201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Math Popul Stud. 1995;5(4):321-39, 377. doi: 10.1080/08898489509525410.

Survival of related individuals: an extension of some fundamental results of 
heterogeneity analysis.

Yashin AI, Iachine IA.

"Many ideas in the analysis of heterogeneous mortality are based on the 
relationship between individual and observed hazard rates. This connection is 
established with the help of conditional averaging procedure: The observed risk 
of death at age x is calculated among those who survive this age. The analogy of 
this result for bivariate survival model with correlated individual hazards is 
derived. In the case of correlated frailty model the parametric specification of 
the mean, variance and correlation coefficient of the bivariate frailty 
distribution among survivors is obtained. The relationship between local 
association measure and the characteristics of the bivariate frailty 
distribution among survivors is established." (SUMMARY IN FRE)

excerpt

DOI: 10.1080/08898489509525410
PMID: 12347230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. AIDS Anal Afr. 1996 Aug-Sep;6(4):10-1.

Vancouver AIDS conference: special report. AIDS and development: the tangled 
nexus between economic growth and social equality.

Whiteside A.

PIP: Economists have written papers on their belief that the HIV/AIDS epidemic 
could adversely affect macroeconomic growth in countries with high levels of HIV 
infection. It has, however, recently become apparent that while HIV and AIDS may 
affect economic growth, the effect may be small and extremely difficult to 
measure. Moreover, there is a growing debate over whether purely economic 
indicators are the most appropriate ones by which to measure development. The 
United Nations Development Program has proposed an alternative indicator, the 
Human Development Indicator (HDI), derived from life expectancy at birth, the 
adult literacy rate, mean years of schooling, and an adjusted measure of per 
capita income. Participants at the Vancouver AIDS Conference addressed the 
question of where the impact of the HIV epidemic will be felt. Biological, 
cultural, and structural co-factors and development projects, and HIV/AIDS in 
Southern Africa are discussed.

PMID: 12347377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Genus. 1996 Jan-Jun;52(1-2):71-82.

Cohort survival in ageing populations: a model life table approach.

Rowland DT.

"In populations where higher proportions are surviving longer, cohort life 
tables are a valuable means of measuring changes and anticipating future 
developments. Yet cohort life tables are calculated only infrequently from 
national mortality statistics because of difficulties in adjusting observed data 
and projecting cohort survival. To facilitate regular updating, an approach to 
cohort life table construction is needed that circumvents the problems of data 
adjustment and projection. This paper proposes a method based on model life 
tables which provides information consistent with official life tables and 
projections of life expectancy. The paper also compares the results with those 
obtained by other methods and discusses some implications of trends in cohort 
survival." (SUMMARY IN ITA AND FRE)

excerpt

PMID: 12347419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. China Popul Today. 1996 Apr;13(2):18.

Striking improvement in public health and MCH.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This news brief identifies some achievements in maternal and child health 
in China during 1991-95. Maternal mortality declined from 94.70/100,000 people 
in 1990 to 64.80/100,000 in 1995. Infant mortality declined from 50.19/1000 to 
37.79/1000. Child mortality declined from 61.00/1000 to 46.75/1000. The 
incidence of birth defects declined from 105.23/10,000 to 90.60/10,000. The 
proportion of breast-fed babies aged under 4 months in urban areas increased 
from 23.60% to 47.50%. 46.60% of rural babies were delivered at hospitals in 
1995. The life expectancy of women reached 71.0 years in 1995. Other 
accomplishments include greater prevention of tetanus infections among newborns 
and declines in the incidence of common childhood diseases. The international 
program for "Strengthening Maternal and Child Health Care and Family Planning 
Services in the Grassroots Units of China" was implemented in 305 poor counties 
that comprised a population of 120 million. The Law on Maternal and Infant 
Health Care assures improvement in the quality of lives of mothers and children 
and protection of their health.

PMID: 12347490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Estud Demogr Urbanos Col Mex. 1995 Jan-Apr;10(1):133-65, 236-7.

[Avoidable causes of death and their effects on life expectancy. A 
socio-demographic interpretation. The case of the northern frontier, 1980-1990].

[Article in Spanish]

Garcia Molina CA, Lopez Lopez MV.

"This study forms part of [a] research project on the health-disease-death 
process along the [Mexican] Northern Frontier--a by-product of the 
socio-economic structure of a specific social formation that determines disease 
and death--to support regional and sectorial design of policies and actions for 
the improvement of health conditions for its population.... An important finding 
is a 4.1 year increase of life expectancy due, among other causes, to a slight 
decrease in avoidable death causes, although these still produce about 50% of 
deaths." (SUMMARY IN ENG)

excerpt

PMID: 12347663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Popul Today. 1997 Mar;25(3):7.

Spotlight: Trinidad and Tobago.

Haub C.

PIP: Trinidad and Tobago's major source of income is oil. First discovered in 
the early 20th century, oil made the country one of the most prosperous in the 
Western Hemisphere during the 1970s, during which the government had an 
expansive program of infrastructure improvement. The oil industry also gave rise 
to the country's famous steel pan music. However, when oil prices collapsed in 
the 1980s, Trinidad and Tobago fell into a serious recession from which it has 
only recently emerged. Much of the hope for the economy now lies in natural gas, 
a significant amount of which is pumped by Amoco. Fertilizers, chemicals, and 
sugar are other important exports. In the country's 1990 census, East Indians 
comprised 40% of the population, slightly larger than the population of African 
descent. Trinidad and Tobago's population has about doubled since the first 
postwar census in 1946 and population halfway through 1996 stood at 1.3 million. 
This relatively modest growth of the population is due to a slowly declining 
birth rate and some emigration although the country receives some immigrants 
from neighboring islands. The total fertility rate fell to 2.0 in 1995, lower 
than replacement level, while infant mortality is low and life expectancy is 
rising to near that of developed countries. There is concern, however, that the 
poor economy has made health care and medical supplies less accessible. A 1987 
Demographic and Health Survey found 53% of all married women using contraception 
and 44% using modern methods. The level of use has probably increased since 
then. Finally, Trinidad and Tobago enjoys an excellent education system and the 
proportion of women age 15 years and older in the labor force is increasing.

PMID: 12347776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Asia Pac Popul J. 1996 Dec;11(4):3-26.

A socio-demographic profile of the population of Maldives.

Chaudhury RH.

PIP: This article presents a sociodemographic profile of the Maldive population. 
The Maldives are an archipelago of 1190 small islands in the Indian Ocean south 
of India. Only 201 of the islands are inhabited. Gross domestic product grew 
during 1984-94 at a rate of 8.77% per year based on a multi-sector economy. The 
1990 population numbered 213,215. During 1985-90 the growth rate was 3.37%. The 
high growth rate is attributed to the sharp fall in mortality. The mortality 
rate in 1990 was 6/1000. 25.9% (55,130 persons) live in the capital city of 
Mali. 47% of population was aged under 15 years, and about 5% were aged over 60 
years. Every 100 working-age individuals provided 108 persons with food, 
clothing, shelter, education, and health care. The sex ratio was 105 males per 
100 females. Female mortality is higher than male mortality. The sex ratio 
favoring males increases with age. Almost 90% of females are married by the age 
of 30-34 years. The singulate mean age at marriage was 24 years for men and 
18-19 years for women in 1990. 2% of men and 5% of women were widowed and 9% of 
women and 6% of men were divorced in 1990. Over 50% of ever married women aged 
40 years and older were married at least four times. The frequency of marriage 
declined with an increase in educational level. 90% of males and 91% of females 
were literate in 1990. 11.3% of the population aged over 6 years had completed a 
primary education. 69.6% of males and 21.4% of females were economically active 
in 1990. Female employment declined during 1985-90. The crude birth rate was 
43/1000 in 1990. Fertility peaked among women aged 25-29 years. Lifetime 
fertility averaged an estimated 7.53 children/woman. Infant mortality was an 
estimated 40 deaths/1000 live births in 1989. Estimated life expectancy at birth 
was 56.3 years in 1987. Most housing is permanent but lacks basic amenities, 
with the exception of electricity.

PMID: 12347777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Demografie. 1996;38(4):233-47.

[Population development in the Czech Republic in 1995 (from the annual report of 
the Czech Statistical Office)].

[Article in Czech]

Ales M.

PIP: The author reviews population trends in the Czech Republic in 1995. Tables 
and text provide data on total fertility rate, natural increase, immigration, 
demographic aging, marriage, life expectancy, infant and postneonatal mortality, 
spatial distribution, and sex distribution. (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 12347809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Boll Demogr Stor. 1994;(21):103-25.

[The evolution of longevity and the process of aging in Western societies].

[Article in Italian]

Salvini S.

PIP: The author discusses the issues of rising life expectancy and population 
aging by examining the definitions and realities of these two terms. She argues 
that the concepts "old age" and "population aging" are historical cultural 
constructs, and that it is time to redefine the later stages of life and the 
role of older people. The concept of a "third age" of life, during which people 
can continue to make important contributions to society, is presented. The 
geographical focus is on developed countries.

PMID: 12347811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Boll Demogr Stor. 1994;(21):127-51.

[Estimation of mortality by use of data on deaths alone].
