
[Article in Italian]

Ventisette M.

PIP: The author discusses the problems of calculating life tables from mortality 
data alone. He reviews the assumptions underlying this method, particularly the 
assumption of a stable population, and shows how distortions are introduced if 
these assumptions are not met. He argues that in order to create accurate life 
tables, it is necessary to have some other data, such as births, in addition to 
deaths by age. He then works through some examples using Italian data, creating 
life tables for the first and last years of life, and then for the middle years.

PMID: 12347812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Bol Asoc Demogr Hist. 1996;14(1):11-30.

[Differences in the growth of four regional populations in Italy, 1750-1911].

[Article in Spanish]

Breschi M, Pozzi L, Rettaroli R.

PIP: The authors discuss the use of inverse projection to examine population 
growth in four regions of Italy between 1750 and 1911. Information is included 
on population and growth rates; life expectancy at birth; crude birth rate; and 
nuptiality, fertility, and mortality.

PMID: 12348112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Maandstat Bevolking. 1997 May;45(5):10-7.

[Mortality: trends, background, and forecast].

[Article in Dutch]

Van Hoorn WD.

PIP: "This article opens with a brief review of the trends in life expectancy 
and in mortality rates by age in the Netherlands. The most striking development 
in recent years is the continuous rise of life expectancy for men and the 
stagnation for women. A few methodological issues are discussed, such as 
selection processes and the possible use in forecasts of death rates by cause. 
Subsequently some important determinants of mortality and expert opinions, 
especially on future longevity, as well as hypotheses in forecasts of other 
developed Western countries, are reviewed." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12348124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Popul Today. 1998 Jan;26(1):1-2.

AIDS, population growth shape sub-Saharan Africa's future.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article discusses AIDS impact on fertility decline and life expectancy 
in sub-Saharan Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa includes very high rates of fertility, 
mortality, urbanization, illiteracy, and HIV/AIDS. Countries in this region also 
possess sizeable natural resources and human resources. The region faces 
challenges in reducing fertility and halting the spread of HIV/AIDS. According 
to the UN Program on AIDS, sub-Saharan African has an estimated 20.8 million 
people with HIV, or 66% of the world total of cases for 1997. Figures are 
tentative because many AIDS cases go unreported. Factors in Africa that 
contribute to high levels of HIV include the high prevalence of sexually 
transmitted diseases and the low use of condoms. HIV is concentrated in southern 
and eastern Africa. At least 20% of the adult population is infected with HIV in 
Botswana and Zimbabwe. Expected declines in infant and child mortality have not 
occurred due to deaths from AIDS. UN and US Census Bureau estimates indicate 
reversals in life expectancy due to AIDS mortality. Life expectancy at birth 
declined from 61 years in the late 1980s to 50 years in the late 1990s. The US 
Census Bureau estimates life expectancy in Botswana will decline to 33 years by 
2010. By 2010, it is expected that there will be almost 40 million orphans due 
to AIDS deaths. This high mortality over a short time period is expected to 
create social and political upheaval, particularly in high prevalence countries. 
AIDS mortality is expected to affect the age structure and halt expected 
declines in population growth. The UN medium projections estimate a future 
population in 2050 of almost 1.5 billion. There is hope in countries such as 
Uganda, which showed a leveling off of HIV/AIDS prevalence rates among 15-19 
year olds in rural areas and declining rates in urban areas.

PMID: 12348208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Popul Today. 1998 Jan;26(1):7.

Spotlight: Bangladesh.

Parikh L.

PIP: This brief article highlights the progress made in Bangladesh in reducing 
fertility and improving women's status. The mid-1997 population was an estimated 
122.2 million persons. The land area is 50,260 square miles. Population density 
was 2432 people per square mile. Births were 31 per 1000 persons. Deaths were 11 
per 1000 persons. Infant deaths were 77 per 1000 live births. Natural increase 
was 2% per year. The total fertility rate was 3.3 births per woman. Life 
expectancy was 58 years for males and females. Bangladesh is one of the most 
densely populated countries in the world and has about 50% of US population 
situated on land the size of Wisconsin. Average annual income is about $240. 
Livelihoods from agriculture are affected by monsoons and natural disasters. 
Bangladesh has reduced its fertility by half since the mid-1970s. Almost 50% of 
married women relied on contraception during 1996-97, compared to only 8% of 
married women in 1975. Increases in contraceptive prevalence are attributed to 
the family planning program and parents' desire for smaller families. The 
government has made slowing population growth a priority since the 1970s. The 
35,000 field workers provide door-to-door contraception and counseling. Mass 
media has promoted messages about the economic and health advantages of limiting 
or spacing births. Women continue to play a subordinate role to men, despite 
their improved control over fertility. Under 30% of women are literate compared 
to 50% of men. Islamic practices still confine women to the home. Programs are 
directed to improving women's financial status through credit programs. Women 
now hold many jobs in the new garment industry, which is the largest 
nonagricultural employer.

PMID: 12348209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Popul Bull ESCWA. 1996;(44):3-28.

Infant and child mortality in Palestinian camps in Lebanon.

Khawaja KZ.

"This study aims at producing acceptable estimates of a number of indicators of 
infant and child mortality in Palestinian camps in Lebanon by using the Brass 
technique. The study utilized data provided by two comprehensive 
surveys...carried out in 1979 and 1989." Results are provided on the decline in 
infant mortality between 1977 and 1989; the reduction in the probability of 
dying between ages one and five; life expectancy at birth; sex differences in 
infant mortality; and changes in death rates and life expectancy by mother's 
educational level.

excerpt

PMID: 12348281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Afr Health. 1997 Nov;20(1):7.

AIDS and Uganda.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Published statistics collected in Uganda regarding the HIV and AIDS 
epidemic often conflict. While 460,000 Ugandans have died of AIDS according to 
the STD/AIDS Control Programme, the program's estimated number of HIV-positive 
Ugandans (1.5 million) is less than that of others (2 million). Dr. Hatib Njie, 
the WHO representative to Uganda, believes the epidemic is in decline because of 
the decrease (27-12%) 3 years ago in seroprevalence in all patients treated at 
Ugandan clinics. Yet UK Medical Research Council studies indicate that life 
expectancy in some areas is decreasing rapidly; it dropped from age 58 to 43 
within the last few years in a southwestern Ugandan community. Although Uganda's 
Rakai district is one of the most AIDS-afflicted areas in the world, figures 
published recently in "Nature Medicine" indicate that the population is growing, 
rather than undergoing predicted 'negative growth rates.' This may indicate that 
the AIDS epidemic will stabilize more quickly than anticipated. However, within 
Rakai, HIV prevalence rates vary from 1% to 40%, depending on the parish. In 
these parishes, mortality rates are high, the number of deaths among children is 
larger than expected, and 'negative population growth' is apparent.

PMID: 12348381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Soc Sci. 1994;25(1):86-96.

Demographic changes in East European countries and Russia.

Dyagilev B, Luchkina L.

PIP: The authors outline demographic trends in Eastern Europe and Russia since 
1970. Aspects considered include population size, birth rate and number of 
births, marriage and divorce, death rate, infant mortality, natural increase, 
sex ratio, and life expectancy.

PMID: 12348392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Vopros Stat. 1997;(12):53-6.

[The demographic situation in the Russian Federation during the structural 
transition associated with perestroika and the subsequent economic 
stabilization].

[Article in Russian]

Antonova O, Brui B, Gorbunova T, Nikitina S.

PIP: The authors describe the demographic situation in the Russian Federation in 
the period of perestroika and in the subsequent period of economic and social 
turmoil associated with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Topics covered include 
changes in population growth and decline, life expectancy, morbidity, health 
status, the health system, and age distribution.

PMID: 12348413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Eur J Popul. 1997 Dec;13(4):381-99. doi: 10.1023/a:1005993113820.

[Mortality by age and cause of death in Switzerland: an analysis of cantonal 
disparities during the period 1978/83-1988/93].

[Article in French]

Wanner P, Peng F, Cotter S.

PIP: "During the 1980s, expectation of life at birth increased in all the Swiss 
cantons, but at very different tempi. The characteristics of the level and 
trends of mortality in the cantons are described here by the decomposition 
methods developed by Pollard and Arriaga. The pace of the development of 
mortality in the cantons is compared, and the particular characteristics 
observed are accounted for by life table analysis according to age and cause of 
death. The results show in particular the dominant role [of] economically active 
ages and beyond in recent mortality trends, and the importance of AIDS and of 
violent deaths in accounting for differences between cantons." (EXCERPT)

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005993113820
PMID: 12348441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Statistica. 1997 Apr-Jun;57(2):211-20.

[Survival functions and life tables at the origins of actuarial mathematics].

[Article in Italian]

Spelta D.

PIP: "In the determination of death probabilities of an insured subject one can 
use either statistical data or a mathematical function. In this paper a survey 
of the relationship between mortality tables and survival functions from the 
origins until the first half of the nineteenth century is presented. The author 
has tried to find the methodological grounds which have induced the actuaries to 
prefer either of these tools." (EXCERPT)

PMID: 12348442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Pol Popul Rev. 1997;(11):133-42.

Demographic situation in Poland on the background of changes in the European 
countries--in relation to forecast assumptions.

Nowak L.

PIP: The author discusses demographic trends in Poland and compares these trends 
with those in other European countries. Aspects considered include family 
formation and dissolution; fertility; mortality, life expectancy, and health 
status; demographic resources and changes in the age structure; and demographic 
aging.

PMID: 12348446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Janasamkhya. 1994;12(1-2):151-7.

Estimating the person years lived in the infant and childhood ages.

Krishnamoorty S, Mathew AC.

"This paper proposes the use of Weibull Hazard function to obtain [an] improved 
estimate of person years lived in infant and childhood ages. As the estimation 
procedure is too involved for those who construct life tables, an easier method 
of obtaining the same is provided.... An illustrative application of the 
procedure is also presented." The data used for this illustration are from the 
Sample Registration System of India.

excerpt

PMID: 12348452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Health Millions. 1998 Jan-Feb;24(1):2.

A pestilent monster on prowl.

Mathew NM.

PIP: World AIDS Day 1997 was commemorated in Delhi, India, with a "walk for 
life" led by the Union Minister of State for Health and the premier of a 
telefilm on AIDS. In India, by August 1997, 66,460 out of 3,156,800 HIV tests 
had positive results and nearly 1% of the adult population is estimated to be 
infected. An estimated 1 million children are HIV-positive. As a result of the 
strong associations between AIDS and poverty, inequality, culture, and high-risk 
sexual behaviors, Asia will soon hold half the world's AIDS cases. The epidemic 
has reversed many recent gains in health and life expectancy and is overwhelming 
the health care system. Only 2.5% of the HIV-infected Indian population has 
access to newly developed antiretroviral drugs that slow the progression to 
AIDS. As this editorial states, "AIDS is a war where the target is clear, but 
the strategies are still amorphous, thereby making the attacks blurred."

PMID: 12348527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Health Millions. 1998 Jan-Feb;24(1):3-5.

HIV epidemic -- a global update. Excerpts from the UN World AIDS Day report.

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to the 1997 United Nations World AIDS Day Report, over 30 million 
adults and children worldwide are HIV-infected and, if current transmission 
rates remain constant, 40 million people will be infected by the year 2000. In 
1997, an estimated 5.8 million people became HIV-infected and 2.3 million died 
of AIDS-related infections. Nearly half of these deaths were in women and 
460,000 were in children under 15 years. In sub-Saharan Africa, where the 
epidemic is progressing most rapidly, 7.4% of the population aged 15-49 years is 
HIV-positive. Unprotected sex accounted for most of the 3.4 million new HIV 
infections among adults in sub-Saharan Africa in 1997. In Asia, the epidemic is 
more diverse, both in terms of intercountry variation and modes of transmission. 
In the developed world, newly available antiretroviral drugs are reducing the 
speed at which HIV-infected people develop AIDS. Of particular concern is the 
impact of HIV/AIDS on reversing gains in life expectancy and child survival in 
developing countries. Moreover, an estimated 9 out of 10 HIV-positive people 
worldwide are not aware they are infected. The future course of the epidemic 
depends in large part on expanded access to information about how HIV is 
transmitted and how to avoid infection.

PMID: 12348530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Popul Today. 1998 Jun;26(6):7.

Spotlight: Syria.

Fischbach MR.

PIP: As of mid-1998, Syria had a population of 15.6 million people residing in a 
land area of 70,958 sq. miles, of which only 28% is arable. There were 33 births 
and 6 deaths per 1000 population, as well as 35 infant deaths for every 1000 
live births, and a population growing in size at 2.8% annually. The average 
woman had 4.6 births during her reproductive lifetime and life expectancy was 67 
years for men and 68 years for women. About 9% of Syria's population is Arab. 
About half of the population lives in urban areas. While war has caused several 
population movements over the past 50 years, there is now only a small degree of 
external migration. Approximately 300,000 Palestinian Arabs, refugees, and their 
descendants reside in Syria. The government's liberalization of the country's 
state-dominated economy in the early 1990s led to a period of economic growth 
which has slowed since the mid-1990s. The current 9% unemployment rate is will 
rise in the future context of a stagnant economy and a growing body of work-age 
youths; 45% of the population is under age 15 years. Estimated per capita gross 
national product in 1996 was US$1160, with approximately 28% of gross domestic 
product derived from agriculture, 18% from industry, and 54% from services. 
Although Syria has enough water resources for its population, that supply is 
threatened by pollution. Basic health care is not always available in rural 
areas and the government has no initiative to reduce fertility, even though the 
country's population will double in 25 years at current growth rates. 40% of 
married women use some form of contraception and 28% use a modern method. Only 
26 AIDS cases had been reported in the country up to 1993.

PMID: 12348559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Maandstat Bevolking. 1998 Apr;46(4):8-11.

[Probability distribution of population forecasts].

[Article in Dutch]

Alders M, De Beer J.

PIP: "On the basis of assumptions on the probability distribution of future 
fertility, life expectancy and net migration, the probability distribution of 
the future size and age structure of the population [of the Netherlands] can be 
calculated.... The calculations are based on three main assumptions.... On the 
basis of these assumptions it can be calculated that the probability of the 
population size in 2010 lying between 15.8 million and 17.2 million is 90%." 
(EXCERPT)

PMID: 12348624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Maandstat Bevolking. 1998 Jun;98(6):8-16.

Analysis and projection of national and regional mortality for countries of the 
European Economic Area.

Van Hoorn WD, De Beer J.

"Three scenarios of future mortality trends are presented for all countries of 
the European Economic Area. The high scenario assumes a considerable decline in 
mortality rates. Consequently life expectancy at birth will continue to increase 
at about the same rate as during the last decades.... In the low scenario only a 
small decline in death rates is assumed. This scenario assumes that there will 
be no convergence between countries. Moreover the current differences between 
male and female mortality are assumed to persist."

excerpt

PMID: 12348630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Demografie. 1998;40(1):3-22.

[Population of the Czechoslovak Republic 1918-1938].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PIP: The author analyzes population trends in Czechoslovakia between 1918 and 
1938. Tabular data are provided on population size by territory and 
administrative division, population density, rural and urban population, age 
distribution, literacy, economically active population, nationality, religion, 
natural increase, fertility, life expectancy, emigration, and occupation. 
(ANNOTATION)

PMID: 12348728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. CVI Forum. 1994 Nov;(8):10-1.

Coping with size: China's efforts pay off.

[No authors listed]

PIP: With a population of 1.2 billion people, China is the world's most populous 
country. With so many people and more than 24 million births per year, China has 
difficulty ensuring that all of its children have been immunized. Most difficult 
is keeping track of an increasingly mobile population in the current move toward 
a market economy. Two immunization targets, set by the Chinese government and 
supported by the World Health Organization and UNICEF, have been reached. By 
1988, immunization programs launched in the 1980s had vaccinated at least 85% of 
infants under 1 year old in all provinces and regions against tuberculosis, 
diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, and measles. By 1990, the same coverage 
level had been achieved in all of China's urban districts and rural counties, 
and China is now well on its way to achieving 85% coverage in all townships by 
the end of 1995. China's coverage against individual diseases is also 
impressive. The incidence of targeted vaccine-preventable diseases has 
plummeted, while life expectancy at birth has risen from approximately 64 years 
in the 1970s to 69 years in 1992 for both sexes combined. Despite reducing its 
estimated neonatal tetanus (NT) death rate from around 55 deaths/1000 births in 
1954 to 4/1000 in 1980, an estimated 98,000 infants still die annually in China 
due to NT. Education programs and two 1-day immunization campaigns against NT 
are planned for the southern province of Guizhou.

PMID: 12348742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Popul Today. 1998 Sep;26(9):4-5.

A world profile of environment and population. United States [and] world.

Population Reference Bureau PRB; National Audubon Society. Population and 
Habitat Campaign; League of Women Voters. Population Coalition.

PIP: The US's 1997 population of 267.7 million is projected to grow at the 
annual rate of 0.9% to 335.1 million in 2025. The average woman in the US has 
2.0 children over the course of her reproductive lifetime, there are 7.2 infant 
deaths per 1000 live births, and male and female life expectancies are 73 and 79 
years, respectively. 75% of the US population lives in urban areas and, overall, 
there are 76 inhabitants per sq. mile. 10% of US land is protected and 1994 per 
capita gross domestic product (GDP) was US$26,434. The world's 1997 population 
of 5840 million is projected to grow at the annual rate of 1.5% to 8036 million 
in 2025. The average woman has 3.0 children over the course of her reproductive 
lifetime, there are 59 infant deaths per 1000 live births, and male and female 
life expectancies are 64 and 68 years, respectively. 43% of the population lives 
in urban areas and, overall, there are 116 inhabitants per square mile. 7% of 
the world's land is protected and 1995 per capita GDP was US$4909. Levels of 
water, energy, and cropland use, as well as demographic trends, natural 
resources and wildlife issues, and socioeconomic factors are described for both 
the US and the world.

PMID: 12348786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Popul Today. 1998 Sep;26(9):7.

Spotlight: El Salvador.

[No authors listed]

PIP: As of mid-1998, El Salvador had a population of 5.8 million people residing 
in a land area of 8000 sq. miles. There were 29 births and 4 deaths per 1000 
population, as well as 41 infant deaths for every 1000 live births, and a 
population growing in size at 2.5% annually. The average woman has 3.9 births 
during her reproductive lifetime and life expectancy is 65 years for men and 72 
years for female. With 39% of El Salvador's population under age 15 years, it 
will continue to grow rapidly even as birth rates decline. The proportion of 
urban residents in El Salvador is expected to grow beyond the 1994 level of 45%. 
Population growth has intensified competition for farmland and jobs, with 
extreme poverty forcing Salvadoran farmers and laborers to make choices which 
are beneficial in the short term, but which may cause long-term environmental 
damage. Human and chemical wastes, often untreated and unregulated, pollute 90% 
of the rivers and almost all topsoil and drinking water in heavily populated 
areas. 66% of farmland in the mountainous area is eroded, and the resulting 
pollution and agricultural runoff threaten shellfish and seafood businesses 
close to the coast. While forests once covered 85% of El Salvador, now only less 
than 5% is forest, and much of the cleared land is so degraded that there is 
little hope of restoring endangered plant and animal species. Most of the 
country's workers are employed in agriculture, but industrial parks are helping 
the country's economic growth. 74% of Salvadoran men and 70% of women are 
literate, school enrollment levels are low, and about 4% of the country's gross 
national product comes from official development assistance. The El Salvador 
Environment Fund was created in 1994 to support small projects for environmental 
protection and child development.

PMID: 12348787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Popul Headl. 1998 Nov-Dec;(267):2.

"Tidal wave" of AIDS may wipe out hard-won gains of development.

[No authors listed]

PIP: 14 million people have already died due to HIV/AIDS, with at least 95% of 
all infections and deaths occurring in the developing world. HIV has not been 
stopped in any country, even where expensive new drugs against AIDS are widely 
available. Such drugs are scarcely available or affordable in developing 
countries. Relatively late to arrive in Asia, HIV is rapidly gaining ground in 
some Asian countries. For example, recent research in India indicates that HIV 
is firmly rooted in the general population and is spreading into rural areas. A 
new survey in the state of Tamil Nadu found that almost 500,000 people are 
infected with HIV and that the infection rate is 3 times higher in villages than 
in cities. In nine countries in which at least 10% of the adult population is 
HIV-positive, it is estimated that AIDS will soon cost an average of 17 years of 
life expectancy compared with what the countries would have experienced in the 
absence of an HIV/AIDS epidemic. Some evidence does, however, suggest that HIV 
education and prevention efforts are convincing young people and teenagers to 
adopt HIV/AIDS risk reduction behaviors.

PMID: 12348829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Health Millions. 1998 Sep-Oct;24(5):20-2.

Population ageing: a looming public health challenge.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The World Health Organization (WHO) launched the "International Year of 
Older Persons" on October 1, 1998, and announced that the theme of 1999 World 
Health Day in April would be "Active Aging." Both initiatives seek to draw 
attention to the necessity of creating policies dealing with aging in light of 
the demographic aging found throughout the world. Physically, aging slows the 
body's capacity for self-regulation and self-healing. Socially, old age may be a 
period of increasing isolation as children migrate and companions die. Currently 
355/580 million people aged 60 years and older live in developing countries. 
This increase has been fueled by declining mortality rates and increases in 
average life expectancy from 41 years in the early 1950s to 62 years in 1990. By 
2020, the number of elderly people is projected to reach more than 1000 million, 
with 70% living in developing countries, especially in China, India, Indonesia, 
Brazil, and Pakistan. More than 20 developing countries currently have a life 
expectancy at birth of 72 years or more. It is expected that by 2020, 75% of 
mortality will be age-related. Also, the number of people with mental health 
disorders, such as senile dementia, will increase as will the incidence of 
visual impairment and general morbidity. Issues that require attention are 
policies to deal with treatment choices that merely prolong life robbed of its 
quality, the creation of a reliable database, ways to improve quality of life in 
old age, and provision of care for the elderly.

PMID: 12348878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Integration. 1998 Winter;(58):19.

Classifying the economically productive population as persons aged 20-69.

Ishibashi T.

PIP: This article discusses census classification of population by age group in 
Japan. It is argued that the economically productive population should include 
some elderly and exclude some teenagers and span ages 20-69 years. The current 
scheme includes 15-19 year olds who are mostly still in high school or college 
and excludes persons aged 64-69 years who are still capable of being 
economically productive. The prior age scheme does not accurately reflect 
Japanese society in the modern age, where life expectancy is greater and elderly 
people are healthy and able to work. Japan is an aging society that will peak in 
population size at 127 million in 2005. In 1995, the population aged over 65 
years was 14.6% of total population. One-third of the Japanese population will 
be elderly by 2050. The mass media have recently focused on the crisis of an 
overburdened working-age population and the loss of national strength. The 
proposed age groupings would reduce the number of dependents and create a 
stronger base for economic productivity.

PMID: 12348883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Popul Today. 1998 Dec;26(12):1-2.

UN projections assume fertility decline, mortality increase.

Haub C.

PIP: This article summarizes the latest findings from the UN Population 
Division's 1998 review of World Population Estimates and Projections. The 
revisions reflect lower future population size and faster rates of fertility and 
mortality decline. The medium variant of population projection for 2050 
indicates 8.9 billion, which is 458 million lower than projected in 1996 and 924 
million lower than projected in 1994. The changes are due to changes in 
developing countries. Africa's changes accounted for over 50% of the change. The 
UN medium projection assumes that the desire for fewer children and effective 
contraceptive practice will continue and that the availability of family 
planning services will increase. The revisions are also attributed to the 
widespread prevalence of AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa and greater chances for 
lower fertility in developing countries. AIDS mortality may decrease average 
life expectancy in 29 African countries by 7 years. The UN medium projection 
assumes a decline in fertility from 2.7 children/woman during 1995-2000 to 2.0 
children/woman by 2050. The UN high variant is 10.7 billion by 2050; the low 
variant is 7.3 billion. It is concluded that efforts of national governments and 
international agencies have contributed to increased access to reproductive 
health services and subsequent fertility decline. Future declines will depend on 
accessibility issues. Despite declines, world population is still growing by 78 
million annually. Even countries such as Botswana, with 25% of the population 
infected with HIV/AIDS, will double in size by 2050.

PMID: 12348891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Popul Today. 1998 Dec;26(12):7.

Spotlight: Egypt.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Egypt is the most populous country in the Arab world and the second most 
populous country in Africa, with 65.5 million people living in a land area of 
384,344 square miles as of mid-1998. There were 28 births and 6 deaths per 1000 
population, as well as 63 infant deaths for every 1000 live births, and a 
population growing in size at 2.2% annually. The average Egyptian woman has 3.6 
births during her reproductive lifetime and life expectancy is 65 years for men 
and 69 years for women. Egypt has major issues to address with regard to the 
management and use of its water resources, balancing the protection and use of 
rural lands, and expanding industry while protecting the air, water, and land. 
Much of Egypt's water is polluted and its soil damaged and depleted due to 
irrigation-related salinization. With Cairo and Alexandria already densely 
populated, the proportion of Egypt's population expected to live in urban areas 
should exceed 60% by 2025. Almost all of Egypt's population lives along the 
banks of the Nile and its delta, almost all of the country's agricultural 
production occurs on 5% of that land, and less than 1% of the land is protected. 
Population momentum will cause Egypt's population to grow a projected 51% by 
2025 even though 47% of married women use some form of contraception. 51% of 
Egyptian adults are literate and tense relations with Israel influence Egypt's 
public expenditures and foreign assistance.

PMID: 12348893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Popul Today. 1999 Feb;27(2):7.

Spotlight: Azerbaijan.

[No authors listed]

PIP: As of mid-1998, Azerbaijan had a population of 7.7 million people residing 
in a land area of 33,436 square miles. There were 17 births and 6 deaths per 
1000 population, as well as 19 infant deaths for every 1000 live births, and a 
population growing in size at 1.1% annually. The average woman had 2.1 births 
during her reproductive lifetime and life expectancy was 67 years for men and 74 
years for women. Azerbaijan is an oil-producing country, although the 
agricultural sector is responsible for 25% of gross domestic product and employs 
31% of the work force. Despite its oil wealth and strong agricultural and mining 
sectors, Azerbaijan is struggling to improve its environmental conditions and 
support a large refugee population. The country's air, water, and soil are 
severely polluted. Air pollution stems from petrochemical plants, refineries, 
exhaust fumes, and the burning of untreated garbage; water pollution is the 
result of oil spills, leaky pipelines and tanks, runoff of fertilizers and 
pesticides, and improperly treated sewage; and land pollution is due to 
inadequate waste management. The high incidence of waterborne diseases, 
including cholera, in Azerbaijan is caused by the inadequate treatment of 
drinking water and sewage intrusion into leaky distribution pipes. Although over 
90% of infants under age 1 year are immunized against diphtheria, whooping 
cough, tetanus, polio, and measles, babies in Azerbaijan are 3 times as likely 
to die before reaching age 1 year than are babies in the US. Azerbaijani 
children are 5 times more likely to die by age 5 than are US children. Living 
conditions are especially difficult for the 12% of the overall population which 
are refugees.

PMID: 12348921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Compare. 1997 Oct;27(3):287-95. doi: 10.1080/0305792970270305.

Girls' access to education in a developing country.

Geissinger H.

PIP: This article provides an overview of girls' access to education in Papua 
New Guinea (PNG). PNG is a nation state formed by groups speaking over 800 
languages. In 1990, population, except in the North Solomons, numbered about 3.5 
million. Life expectancy is about 56.1 years. 43% are aged under 15 years. PNG 
has one of the highest rates of subsistence living in the world. Most live in 
villages. Fees are charged for schooling. European style education was brought 
by the missionaries and was directed mainly to boys. Girls could be included in 
Bible studies. In 1906, Australia began building schools for boys to work in 
colony administrative jobs. Colonial control was expanded through development of 
schools. PNG is mountainous and has few roads, bus routes, or trains. Secondary 
schools must offer dormitories. In 1988, at least 50% of children were in 
primary school in all 19 provinces and the area comprising the National Capital 
District. The government became independent in 1975. Statistical data were 
unreliably collected. North Solomons was known for having high female primary 
school enrollments, high status for women, and limited data. Physical location 
of schools depends on availability of land and resources. Tribal fighting 
interferes with access. Lotteries determine entrance to secondary school. There 
are bottlenecks in advancing from one grade to the next. Girls in remote 
villages may not see women role models and have little desire to obtain any 
education. Parents may prevent female schooling. Cultural and historical factors 
are key obstacles to female schooling. Female schooling may not equate with job 
options.

DOI: 10.1080/0305792970270305
PMID: 12348992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Popul Bull. 1999 Mar;54(1):1-44.

World population beyond six billion.

Gelbard A, Haub C, Kent MM.

PIP: This world report reviews population growth pre-1900, population change 
during 1900-50 and 1950-2000, causes and effects of population change and 
projections to 2050. World population grew from 2 billion in 1900 to almost 6 
billion in 2000. Population showed more rapid growth in the 17th and 18th 
centuries. Better hygiene and public sanitation in the 19th century led to 
expanded life expectancies and quicker growth, primarily in developed countries. 
Demographic transition in the 19th and 20th centuries was the result of shifts 
from high to low mortality and fertility. The pace of change varies with 
culture, level of economic development, and other factors. Not all countries 
follow the same path of change. The reproductive revolution in the mid-20th 
century and modern contraception led to greater individual control of fertility 
and the potential for rapid fertility decline. Political and cultural barriers 
that limit access affect the pace of decline. Population change is also affected 
by migration. Migration has the largest effect on the distribution of 
population. Bongaarts explains differences in fertility by the proportion in 
unions, contraceptive prevalence, infertility, and abortion. Educational status 
has a strong impact on adoption of family planning. Poverty is associated with 
multiple risks. In 2050, population could reach 10.7 billion or remain low at 
7.3 billion.

PMID: 12349065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Aust Popul Assoc. 1996 Nov;13(2):101-24. doi: 10.1007/BF03029490.

How often do Australians move? Alternative measures of population mobility.

Bell M.

"Conventional census-based measures of population mobility are conceptually 
abstruse, ignore multiple moves and obscure the diversity of human migration 
experience. This paper explores three alternatives and outlines their strengths 
and limitations. Application of life table techniques to convert transition 
rates to migration expectancies generates measures that are more readily 
understood, automatically standardizes for age and enables the timing of 
mobility to be analysed methodically. Data on movement frequencies and residence 
duration provide new perspectives indicating substantial chronic mobility and 
significant differences between frequent movers and long term stayers. A number 
of simple summary statistics are proposed to supplement transition rates."

excerpt

DOI: 10.1007/BF03029490
PMID: 12349129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Papeles Poblac. 1998 Jul-Sep;4(17):39-44.

[The next step for population policies].

[Article in Spanish]

Cabrera Acevedo G.

PIP: In modern and postmodern societies, age has been transformed into a symbol 
of isolation, sadness, poverty, physical and mental inactivity, and economic and 
emotional burden for families, societies, and nations. Humanity has struggled to 
postpone death through medical advances and greater life expectancy. Declines in 
mortality and fertility lead inexorably to demographic aging. In Mexico, as in 
many other societies, poverty is concentrated at the beginning and end of life. 
While it has undeniably been an achievement to add years to life, social and 
cultural changes in response to demographic aging and greater life expectancy 
have not occurred. The additional years have not been accompanied by social 
actions that provide the elderly with a dignified and tranquil life free from 
want. In 1965, Mexico's population over 65 years of age was 1.7 million, 
accounting for 4.6% of the population, life expectancy was 57.9 years, and the 
total fertility rate was 6.9. In 1995, 4.4% of the population was over 65 years 
of age and the total fertility rate was 2.8. By 2030, a projected 17 million, or 
13.1%, will be over 65 years old. The future demographic profile is the result 
of societal desires for better health, longer life, and fewer children living in 
better circumstances. The great challenge of the next century will be to create 
strategies, policies, and programs to attend to population aging. Collective 
awareness must be created of the material and other needs of the elderly, and 
the sociopolitical system must adapt in response.

PMID: 12349180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Stat Szle. 1999 Jan;77(1):16-36.

[Mortality after the Second World War].

[Article in Hungarian]

Valkovics E.

PIP: Mortality trends in Hungary since the Second World War are analyzed. Two 
periods are distinguished; the first, from 1946 to 1966, was a period of 
declining mortality and increasing life expectancy, and the second, from 1966 
until the present, a period of rising mortality and declining life expectancy, 
particularly for males, coupled with relatively stable mortality levels for 
females. The author analyzes differences in causes of death by age in these two 
periods. (ANNOTATION)

PMID: 12349240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. China Popul Today. 1999 Oct;16(4-5):22-4.

Family planning program in Guangxi.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article reports on the impact of family planning program in Guangxi 
Zhuang, China. Introduced in 1964, there has been organizational buildups and 
strengthening in leadership within the family planning program. By the end of 
1998, the region had set up 6 family planning service centers at the prefectural 
level, 106 at the county level, 1309 at the township level, and 12,442 at the 
village level. Subsequently, Guangxi has made significant progress in 
controlling rapid population growth and improving people's health and education 
conditions. Population development has evolved from a pattern of high birth 
rate, low death rate and high natural increase rate to one of low birth rate, 
low death rate and low natural increase rate. In addition, there has been an 
increase in the health and educational levels of the population. A sampling 
survey indicated that the number of people with a college education rose from 
6.1 in 1978 to 16.7 in 1998 for every 10,000; and average life expectancy of 
Guangxi's population has been greatly extended. Moreover, provision of family 
planning publicity and services centering on human reproduction and daily life 
and the integration of the family planning program with poverty alleviation has 
also been fruitful.

PMID: 12349375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Health Millions. 1999 Sep-Oct;25(5):8-9.

Ageing in the South-East Asian region.

Wibowo A.

PIP: The increasing trend in the aging population of countries in the South-East 
Asia Region (SEAR) transforms these countries from "mature societies" to "aging 
societies.¿ The elderly population in this region would be increasing from 18.1% 
in 1995 to 21.4% of the world elderly population in 2025. Since women have a 
longer life expectancy than men, the proportion of elderly women in the region 
would increase to 13.2% by 2025, while the proportion of elderly men would be 
11.6%. In SEAR, 11.8 million people reportedly suffered from blindness in 1998; 
50-80% of these cases are caused by cataract, which is most common in those aged 
60 years and above. Although the aged is one of the most vulnerable population 
groups, little attention is given to geriatric care. Health services in many 
countries still focus largely on communicable diseases, maternal care, and child 
care, rather than on the enormous needs of the elderly population. Care of the 
elderly should be a priority of the primary health care system, focusing on the 
promotion of a healthy old-age lifestyle and prevention of behaviors that are 
hazardous to health.

PMID: 12349422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Afr Popul Dev Bull. 1999 Jun-Jul:13-4.

Fear and hope.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Joint UN Programme for HIV/AIDS reported that, at the end of 1998, 33.4 
million people were infected with HIV/AIDS, 95% of whom live in developing 
countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, about 22.5 million were infected despite 
decades of effort in the eradication of the disease. Social and political 
instability in Africa has been the major factor in the spread of the infection. 
This includes the huge migration of single men to the mining industry and huge 
population movements during and after genocide. The spread of HIV infection in 
sub-Saharan Africa was observed to be through heterosexual contacts. 
Furthermore, causes for these high prevalence rates included higher fertility 
rates of HIV-infected mothers, vertical transmission of HIV through 
breast-feeding, and inaccessibility of treatment drugs. Decreased life 
expectancy and increased infant and child mortality have resulted because of the 
infection. Differences in the prevalence of HIV infection were observed 
globally. Industrialized countries reported a higher prevalence of infection 
among the low socioeconomic class sectors, unlike the higher prevalence of HIV 
found among the high literacy and socioeconomic sectors in the sub-Saharan 
region. Moreover, a positive relationship between education and HIV prevalence 
was observed. Thus, development of program activities such as sex education, 
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, and condom promotion, which targets 
the younger generation, may prove to be beneficial in the decline of HIV 
infection.

PMID: 12349446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Afr Popul Dev Bull. 1999 Jun-Jul:7-8.

Quantitative targets in DND and ICPD-PA: the prospects for West Africa.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This article presents an overview of the population estimates and 
projections of the UN for total fertility rates (TFRs), contraceptive prevalence 
rates, infant mortality rates (IMRs), and life expectancy at birth (LEAB) in 
West Africa. Countries with a good potential to reach a TFR of 4 children or 
less within 10-15 years are Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, and perhaps Gambia 
and Guinea, while the TFRs of countries such as Niger and Mali will remain above 
5 in the coming decade. Low contraceptive prevalence is one of the reasons 
behind the slow progress in attaining low fertility levels in the subregion. 
When basing the data on this indicator, it appears that only Ghana and Cape 
Verde will attain the target of 20% by the year 2000 and 40% by the year 2010. 
Moreover, IMRs will continue to decline, but none of the West African countries 
will reach the quantitative objectives set in the Dakar/Ngor Declaration (DND) 
and in the International Conference on Population and Development Programme of 
Action (ICPD-PA). Similarly, considerable improvements will be seen in the LEAB 
during the next decade, but, with the exception of Cape Verde and Ghana, none of 
the other countries are expected to come close to the goals set in the DND and 
ICPD-PA.

PMID: 12349457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Asia Pac Popul J. 1999 Dec;14(4):21-38.

Good health for many: the ESCAP region, 1950-2000.

Caldwell JC.

PIP: The Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) region 
is of prime demographic interest, being that its populous as well as successful 
in the area of economic development, fertility control and reducing mortality. 
This article examines the demographic history and mortality transitions and 
causes of death in the ESCAP region before 1950, and how they struggled for good 
health from 1950-55 to 1995-2000. Moreover, it presents predictions concerning 
the future of all ESCAP subregions in terms of health and life expectancy. There 
are three other aspects of the future to be addressed: achievement of small 
family size, tremendous growth of cities in the region, and mortality 
implications of the AIDS epidemic in these countries. Outlined are measures to 
accelerate fertility decline in ESCAP constituent nation states.

PMID: 12349483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Economist. 2000 Jul 15;356(8179):77-9.

A turning-point for AIDS?

[No authors listed]

PIP: According to UN estimates, 25 million of the 34 million HIV-infected people 
in the world live in Africa. South Africa has the most cases with about 20% of 
the adult population infected with the virus. However, several of its neighbors 
have even worse ratios, including Botswana with 36% of the adult population 
infected with HIV. It is noted that AIDS affects those in the prime of life, 
resulting in social dislocation on a grand scale. In Botswana, it is projected 
that the life expectancy of the people will decline to 29 years. Stopping the 
AIDS epidemic requires the reduction of transmission of the disease, as 
indicated in the experience of prevention initiatives in Senegal and Uganda. 
Three suggested ways to tackle AIDS transmissibility include the use of condoms, 
the development of a microbicide that will kill the virus in the vagina, and the 
treatment of other sexually transmitted diseases. Although none of these things 
alone will be enough to stop the epidemic in its tracks, a combination may 
achieve the goal.

PMID: 12349694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Health Econ. 2002 Sep;21(5):781-803. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(02)00013-9.

Exploring the effects of population change on the costs of physician services.

Denton FT(1), Gafni A, Spencer BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont., Canada.

The effects of population aging on future health care costs are an important 
public policy concern in many countries. We focus in this paper on physician 
services and investigate how changes in the size and age distribution of a 
population can affect the aggregate and per capita costs of such services. The 
principal data set (unpublished, for Ontario) provides information about 
payments to physicians, by age and sex of patients. Using it, we derive age/cost 
profiles for 19 categories of physicians. Adopting an index-theoretic framework, 
we then use the profiles to analyse the "pure" effects of population change 
(historical and projected) on physician costs, and to decompose the effects into 
population growth effects and population aging effects. We present calculations 
for Ontario, for the population of 15 industrialized countries, and for four 
theoretical populations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(02)00013-9
PMID: 12349882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. J Health Econ. 2002 Sep;21(5):827-43. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(02)00011-5.

Is it really possible to build a bridge between cost-benefit analysis and 
cost-effectiveness analysis?

Dolan P(1), Edlin R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of 
Sheffield, UK.

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2004 Sep;23(5):887-98.
