Col NF(1), Goldberg RJ, Orr RK, Erban JK, Fortin JM, Chlebowski RT.

Author information:
(1)Ncol@dsg.harvard.edu

The authors estimate tamoxifen's impact on life expectancy among healthy women. 
A Markov model compared the effects of 5 years of tamoxifen on survival among 
50-year-old postmenopausal women. Scenarios were explored using alternative 
assumptions with regard to tamoxifen's long-term effects on breast and 
endometrial cancer. Postmenopausal women without a uterus had substantial life 
expectancy gains from tamoxifen (1 to 4 months), whereas women with a uterus had 
such gains only if they were at a very high breast cancer risk. If tamoxifen's 
impact on endometrial cancer persists after treatment is discontinued, women at 
high risk for endometrial cancer have life expectancy losses from tamoxifen 
unless they are at a very high risk for breast cancer. The authors conclude that 
tamoxifen use among postmenopausal women is associated with substantial life 
expectancy gains. However, this benefit is modulated in women at increased 
endometrial cancer risk and depends on assumptions concerning tamoxifen's 
lingering effects on breast and endometrial cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902236942
PMID: 12365480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5):410-6. doi: 10.1177/027298902236929.

Your money or your health: time preferences and trading money for health.

Chapman GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey 
08854-8020, USA. gbc@rci.rutgers.edu

BACKGROUND: Time preferences reflect how future outcomes are valued relative to 
present ones. Previous research has found that time preferences for one domain 
(say, money) are inconsistent (uncorrelated) with those from another (say, 
health). The present studies evaluated whether this domain independence was due 
to decision makers' sensitivity to a normatively appropriate principle about the 
tradability of health and money.
METHOD: Participants read a scenario in which health and money were described as 
tradable or not tradable and then responded to hypothetical intertemporal 
trade-off questions. RESULTS. In experiment 1, participants showed higher 
agreement between health and money time preferences in the tradable condition, 
as predicted. In experiment 2, participants responded from either an individual 
decision maker or policy maker perspective. Perspective had little effect on 
agreement between health and money discount rates, but there was again higher 
agreement in the tradable as compared to the not-tradable condition.
CONCLUSION: Previous demonstrations of domain independence may have been due in 
part to decision makers' assumption that health and money are not tradable.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902236929
PMID: 12365483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5):417-30. doi: 10.1177/027298902236927.

Health economic evaluations: the special case of end-stage renal disease 
treatment.

Winkelmayer WC(1), Weinstein MC, Mittleman MA, Glynn RJ, Pliskin JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. wolfgang@post.harvard.edu

This article synthesizes the evidence on the cost-effectiveness of renal 
replacement therapy and discusses the findings in light of the frequent practice 
of using the cost-effectiveness of hemodialysis as a benchmark of societal 
willingness to pay. The authors conducted a meta-analytic review of the medical 
and economic literature for economic evaluations of hemodialysis, peritoneal 
dialysis, and kidney transplantation. Cost-effectiveness ratios were translated 
into 2000 U.S. dollars per life-year (LY) saved. Thirteen studies published 
between 1968 and 1998 provided such information. The cost effectiveness of 
center hemodialysis remained within a narrow range of $55,000 to $80,000/LY in 
most studies despite considerable variation in methodology and imputed costs. 
The cost-effectiveness of home hemodialysis was found to be between $33,000 and 
$50,000/LY. Kidney transplantation, however, has become more cost-effective over 
time, approaching $10,000/LY. Estimates of the cost per life-year gained from 
hemodialysis have been remarkably stable over the past 3 decades, after 
adjusting for price levels. Uses of the cost-effectiveness ratio of $55,000/LY 
for center hemodialysis as a lower boundary of society's willingness to pay for 
an additional life-year can be supported under certain assumptions.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902236927
PMID: 12365484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Oct;36(4):663-7.

Outcome of nonoperative management of asymptomatic high-grade carotid stenosis.

Erzurum VZ(1), Littooy FN, Steffen G, Chmura C, Mansour MA.

Author information:
(1)Hines Veterans Administration Hospital, Hines, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the outcome of nonoperative 
management (NOM) of asymptomatic high-grade (80% to 99%) carotid stenosis.
METHODS: From April 1994 to December 2000, asymptomatic high-grade (80% to 99%) 
carotid stenosis was identified in 196 carotid arteries in 180 male veterans. Of 
the original number identified, 137 carotid endarterectomies (CEs) were 
performed in 123 patients (OP group) and 59 carotid arteries in 57 patients were 
managed nonoperatively (NOM group.) The NOM group was further subdivided into 
those patients who refused care (NOM-R group; n = 21; 36.8%) versus those who 
were not offered CE on the basis of comorbid conditions (NOM-C group; n = 36; 
63.2%). Clinical follow-up was obtained to determine rates of neurologic events, 
patient survival, and progression to occlusion.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, a total of 13 ipsilateral neurologic 
events occurred: two amaurosis fugax (15.4%), two transient ischemic attacks 
(15.4%), and nine strokes (69.2%). The NOM-R group had a significantly lower 
ipsilateral neurologic event-free rate when compared with the OP group at both 
18 months (81% +/- 9.8% versus 96% +/- 1.8%; P <.02) and 2 years (81% +/- 10.6% 
versus 95% +/- 2.1%; P <.04.) However, the NOM-C group and the OP group had no 
significant difference in their ipsilateral neurologic event-free rate out to 3 
years (96% +/- 6.8% versus 95% +/- 2.7%). As would be expected, the NOM-C group 
had a much lower patient survival rate when compared with either the OP group 
(59% +/- 9.2% versus 84% +/- 3.6% at 2 years; P <.002) or the NOM-R group (59% 
+/- 9.2% versus 100% at 2 years; p <.0001). The cumulative patency rate of 
carotid arteries in the NOM group was 86% +/- 7.6% at 3 years. Progression to 
occlusion was associated with a neurologic event in two of five occurrences. No 
carotid artery progressed to occlusion in the OP froup.
CONCLUSION: Although CE is the preferred treatment for asymptomatic high-grade 
carotid stenosis, NOM is an acceptable alternative in selected patients at high 
risk with diminished life expectancy.

PMID: 12368722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 2002 Aug;12(4):262-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-34476.

Pancreatectomy extension in persistent hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia: a new 
strategy.

Martinez-Ibanez V(1), Gussinyer M, Toran N, Lloret J, Abad P, Carrascosa A, 
Boix-Ochoa J.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Surgery Department, Hospital Universitario Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Persistent neonatal and infantile hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia 
(PNHH) is a rare entity which remains to be elucidated but is associated with 
severe lesions in paediatric patients. The aim of this study was to present our 
current surgical strategy with this disease, based on our pathologic findings 
and clinical experience.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 29 patients treated, 
medically and surgically, at our centre. In 15 surgical patients, morphologic, 
morphometric and immunohistochemical studies for insulin, somatostatin and 
glucagon were performed and consequently it was possible to establish a focal 
and different forms of a diffuse type.
RESULTS: Of 29 patients studied, 25 were diagnosed before one year of age and 4 
between the first and second year of infancy. Of the first 25 patients, one died 
7 hours post partum. Twelve patients received medical treatment alone: one died 
at 45 days of life and the remaining 11 had a good outcome. Another 12 patients 
additionally received surgical treatment. In 2 of these, adenoma were observed 
and removed and the patients cured. Subtotal pancreatectomy was performed in the 
remaining 10. (One case was normal and cured and the other 9 had the diffuse 
type.) Of these 9 patients with diffuse type, 4 died, 3 were cured and 2 
underwent repeat surgery. Of the 4 patients diagnosed later, 3 underwent surgery 
(2 with adenomas and 1 diffuse type) and the other received medical treatment 
alone.
CONCLUSIONS: We currently give medical treatment for all types and forms of 
PNHH. If the patient is resistant to therapy, adenoma is ruled out. If adenoma 
is diagnosed, it is removed. If the type is diffuse, near-total pancreatectomy 
is performed with a perioperative biopsy. In cases of hyperplasia or mixed forms 
we recommend total pancreatectomy and in cases of nesidioblastosis, partial 
pancreatectomy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-34476
PMID: 12369005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S102-14. doi: 
10.1177/027298902237706.

Measurement of health preferences among patients with tuberculous infection and 
disease.

Dion MJ(1), Tousignant P, Bourbeau J, Menzies D, Schwartzman K.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Epidemiology Unit, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Health preferences have not previously been investigated among patients with 
tuberculous infection or disease. The authors assessed the reliability of visual 
analogue scale (VAS) and standard gamble (SG) measurements in this patient 
population. Participants were interviewed 3 times in English or French, at 
weekly intervals. They evaluated their own health status, as well as 3 marker 
health states, derived by consensus among tuberculosis (TB) practitioners. For 
the VAS, health states were assigned a duration of 6 months, whereas for the SG, 
the duration was 10 years. One hundred eighty-six potentially eligible 
individuals were identified from the TB clinic database of the Montreal Chest 
Institute. One hundred twelve (60%) were successfully located; of these, 106 
were confirmed eligible. Sixty-seven (63%) agreed to participate, and 50 
completed all study measurements (25 treated for latent TB, 17 treated for 
active TB, and 8 with previous active TB); 38 out of 50 were foreign-born. 
Intraclass correlation coefficients for the marker states were 0.57 to 0.81 for 
the VAS, and 0.75 to 0.87 for the SG. For respondents' own health, the 
coefficients were 0.60 and 0.87, respectively. Median VAS scores for 
respondents' own health were 85.0 to 88.0 for the 3 interviews, whereas the 
median utility score was 97.5 for all 3. Administration of the visual analogue 
scale and standard gamble instruments appeared reliable in a selected group of 
tuberculosis patients. Major barriers to recruitment were language and mobility 
in this largely foreign-born population.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237706
PMID: 12369225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S26-37. doi:
10.1177/027298902237708.

Cost-effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for smoking cessation: a 
literature review and a decision analytic analysis.

Song F(1), Raftery J, Aveyard P, Hyde C, Barton P, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. f.song@bham.ac.uk

To evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of nicotine replacement therapy 
(NRT) and bupropion SR for smoking cessation, the authors reviewed published 
studies and developed a decision analytic model from the UK National Health 
Services perspective. Irrespective of the methods or assumptions involved, the 
results of published studies consistently indicated that NRT for smoking 
cessation is cost-effective. No published studies have evaluated the relative 
cost-effectiveness of bupropion SR for smoking cessation. The results of the 
decision analyses indicated that, as compared with advice or counseling alone, 
the incremental cost per life-years saved is about $1,441-$3,455 for NRT, 
$920-$2,150 for bupropion SR, and $1,282-$2,836 for NRT plus bupropion SR. The 
cost-effectiveness of adding NRT and bupropion SR to advice or counseling for 
smoking cessation is better than many other accepted health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237708
PMID: 12369228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S3-10. doi:
10.1177/027298902237969.

Analytic tools for public health decision making.

Owens DK(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Health Care System (111A), 3801 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. 
owens@stanford.edu

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237969
PMID: 12369229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S45-57. doi:
10.1177/027298902237705.

Cost-effectiveness of the pneumococcal vaccine in healthy younger adults.

Pepper PV(1), Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, Naval Medical Center San Diego, 
34800 Bob Wilson Drive, Box 130, San Diego, CA 92134-5000, USA. 
pvpepper@nmcsd.med.navy.mil

OBJECTIVES: Routine vaccination for Streptococcus pneumoniae has been 
recommended as a cost-effective measure for elderly and immunocompromised 
patients, yet no analysis has been performed for healthy younger adults in 
America. The authors evaluated the cost-effectiveness of the pneumococcal 
vaccine and determined the net health benefits conferred for the healthy young 
adult population.
METHODS: The authors developed a decision model to compare the health and 
economic outcomes of vaccinate versus do not vaccinate for S. pneumoniae.
RESULTS: Vaccinating patients for S. pneumoniae generates benefits that are 
dependent on incidence rates and the efficacy of the vaccine. In the 22-year-old 
patient with a pneumonia incidence of 0.3/1000, the vaccine would need to be > 
71 percent effective for the vaccination strategy to cost less than $50,000/QALY 
gained. At an incidence of 0.4/1000, the threshold efficacy is 53 percent, 
whereas at 0.5/1000 it is 43 percent. In the 35-year-old patient where the 
incidence of pneumococcal pneumonia is higher (0.85/1000), the vaccine would be 
cost-effective with an efficacy as low as 30 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the S. pneumoniae vaccine in young adults would provide 
modest reductions in pneumonia-associated morbidity and mortality. Vaccination 
of young adults is moderately expensive unless vaccine efficacy is above 50% to 
60%. In 35-year-old adults, use of the vaccine is cost-effective even with 
moderate efficacy.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237705
PMID: 12369231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S80-91. doi:
10.1177/027298902237704.

Optimal allocation of resources across four interventions for type 2 diabetes.

Earnshaw SR(1), Richter A, Sorensen SW, Hoerger TJ, Hicks KA, Engelgau M, 
Thompson T, Narayan KM, Williamson DF, Gregg E, Zhang P.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, RTI, 3040 Cornwallis Road, P.O. Box 12194, Research 
Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA.

BACKGROUND: Several interventions can be applied to prevent complications of 
type 2 diabetes. This article examines the optimal allocation of resources 
across 4 interventions to treat patients newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. 
The interventions are intensive glycemic control, intensified hypertension 
control, cholesterol reduction, and smoking cessation.
METHODS: A linear programming model was designed to select sets of interventions 
to maximize quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), subject to varied budget and 
equity constraints.
RESULTS: For no additional cost, approximately 211,000 QALYs can be gained over 
the lifetimes of all persons newly diagnosed with diabetes by implementing 
interventions rather than standard care. With increased availability of funds, 
additional health benefits can be gained but with diminishing marginal returns. 
The impact of equity constraints is extensive compared to the solution with the 
same intervention costs and no equity constraint. Under the conditions modeled, 
intensified hypertension control and smoking cessation interventions were 
provided most often, and intensive glycemic control and cholesterol reduction 
interventions were provided less often.
CONCLUSIONS: A resource allocation model identifies trade-offs involved when 
imposing budget and equity constraints on care for individuals with newly 
diagnosed diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237704
PMID: 12369234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Med Decis Making. 2002 Sep-Oct;22(5 Suppl):S92-101. doi: 
10.1177/027298902237713.

Assessing preferences for prevention versus treatment using willingness to pay.

Corso PS(1), Hammitt JK, Graham JD, Dicker RC, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University School of Public Health, USA. pcorso@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Rising health care costs and limited resources necessitate 
trade-offs between resources allocated toward prevention and those toward 
treatment. Information from opinion polls suggests citizens favor spending a 
higher proportion of all health care dollars on prevention rather than 
treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the policy implications of willingness to pay (WTP) for 
use in cost-benefit analysis (CBA) as a method for capturing individual 
preferences for prevention and treatment in the context of resource allocation 
decisions.
METHODS: The authors recruited a random sample of 1456 US residents age 18 years 
and greater by telephone using random-digit dialing. The survey was designed as 
a 3-stage (phone-mail-phone) process and was conducted between December 1998 and 
March 1999. For all persons completing the survey (N = 1104), the authors 1st 
collected respondents' opinions about the costs and effectiveness of prevention 
versus treatment programs in general. Half of respondents were then asked to 
state their WTP for a hypothetical prevention scenario and half were asked to 
state their WTP for a hypothetical treatment scenario. Both scenarios were 
specific to the same health context and included an identical reduction in 
mortality risk.
RESULTS: WTP for treatment was significantly greater than WTP for prevention, 
$665 and $223, respectively. Prior opinions on the relative effectiveness 
afforded by preventive and treatment interventions moderately influenced the WTP 
estimates for persons randomized to either scenario. Prior opinions on costs had 
no significant effect on WTP estimates for either scenario. WTP significantly 
increased with age and household income in the full sample but was not 
significantly affected by gender or educational attainment.
CONCLUSIONS: The aggregated WTP responses from the prevention and treatment 
scenarios presented in our study would imply that treatment is more strongly 
preferred by society than prevention when the health context is the same and 
benefits of each are held constant. A better understanding is needed of the 
discrepancy between citizens' stated preferences for prevention (e.g., through 
polling) and our findings that they were willing to pay substantially more for 
treatment than for prevention.

DOI: 10.1177/027298902237713
PMID: 12369235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Am J Epidemiol. 2002 Oct 15;156(8):714-9. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwf111.

Age and the burden of death attributable to diabetes in the United States.

Saydah SH(1), Eberhardt MS, Loria CM, Brancati FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Diabetes is a well-established cause of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
all-cause mortality. The burden of death attributable to diabetes in the United 
States is not well quantified, particularly with regard to age. The authors 
analyzed data from the Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES II) (1976-1980) and the NHANES II Mortality Study, in which a nationally 
representative cohort of 9,250 adults aged 30-75 years was followed for 12-16 
years, to determine all-cause and cause-specific mortality. Overall, between 
1976 and 1980, the prevalence of diagnosed diabetes was 4.3%. By 1992, the 
relative hazard of all-cause mortality was 1.9 (95% confidence interval: 1.5, 
2.3), and the population attributable risk (PAR) was 3.6%. The relative hazard 
of CVD mortality was 2.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.8, 2.8), and the PAR was 
5.2%. Including participants with undiagnosed diabetes in the estimates 
increased the PAR for all-cause mortality to 5.1% and that for CVD mortality to 
6.8%. Women had a higher prevalence of diagnosed diabetes than men and a greater 
relative hazard of death than nondiabetic women, leading to a higher PAR for 
women (3.8% for all causes and 7.3% for CVD) versus men (3.3% for all causes and 
3.8% for CVD). These data suggest that diabetes accounts for at least 3.6% of 
all deaths and 5.2% of CVD deaths in US adults. Improvements in diabetes 
prevention and treatment should produce noticeable effects on US life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwf111
PMID: 12370159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Biol Chem. 2002 Dec 6;277(49):47114-22. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M208997200. Epub
2002  Oct 4.

Analysis of O-acetyl-ADP-ribose as a target for Nudix ADP-ribose hydrolases.

Rafty LA(1), Schmidt MT, Perraud AL, Scharenberg AM, Denu JM.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, Portland, Oregon 97201-3098, USA.

The Sir2 family of NAD(+)-dependent histone/protein deacetylases has been 
implicated in a wide range of biological activities, including gene silencing, 
life span extension, and chromosomal stability. Recent evidence has indicated 
that these proteins produce a novel metabolite O-acetyl-ADP-ribose (OAADPr) 
during deacetylation. Cellular studies have demonstrated that this metabolite 
exhibits biological effects when microinjected in living cells. However, the 
molecular targets of OAADPr remain to be identified. Here we have analyzed the 
ADP-ribose-specific Nudix family of hydrolases as potential in vivo metabolizing 
enzymes of OAADPr. In vitro, we found that the ADP-ribose hydrolases (yeast 
YSA1, mouse NudT5, and human NUDT9) cleaved OAADPr to the products AMP and 
acetylated ribose 5'-phosphate. Steady-state kinetic analyses revealed that YSA1 
and NudT5 hydrolyzed OAADPr with similar kinetic constants to those obtained 
with ADP-ribose as substrate. In dramatic contrast, human NUDT9 was 500-fold 
less efficient (k(cat)/K(m) values) at hydrolyzing OAADPr compared with 
ADP-ribose. The inability of OAADPr to inhibit the reaction of NUDT9 with 
ADP-ribose suggests that NUDT9 binds OAADPr with low affinity, likely due to 
steric considerations of the additional acetylated-ribose moiety. We next 
explored whether Nudix hydrolytic activities against OAADPr could be observed in 
cell extracts from yeast and human. Using a detailed analysis of the products 
generated during the consumption of OAADPr in extracts, we identified two robust 
enzymatic activities that were not consistent with the known Nudix hydrolases. 
Instead, we identified cytoplasmic esterase activities that hydrolyze OAADPr to 
acetate and ADP-ribose, whereas a distinct activity residing in the nucleus is 
consistent with an OAADPr-specific acetyltransferase. These findings establish 
for the first time that select members of the ADP-ribose hydrolases are 
potential targets of OAADPr metabolism. However, the predominate endogenous 
activities observed from diverse cell extracts represent novel enzymes.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M208997200
PMID: 12370179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Minerva Chir. 2002 Oct;57(5):543-60.

The current status and future outlook of intestinal transplantation.

Abu-Elmagd K(1), Bond G.

Author information:
(1)Thomas E. Strazl, Transplantation Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. abuelmagdkm@msx.upmc.edu

Recently, the clinical reality of intestinal, combined liver-intestinal, and 
multivisceral transplantation qualified the procedure by the American Health 
Care Financing Administration (HCFA) as the standard of care for patients with 
irreversible intestinal failure. The decision was supported by a decade of 
clinical experience with cumulative improvement in survival. Prior to 
tacrolimus, the worldwide experience was plagued with uncontrolled rejection, 
graft versus host disease (GVHD), and fatal infection. These undefeated barriers 
stemmed from the large gut lymphoid mass and heavy microbial load contained in 
the intestinal lumen with the absence of an effective immunosuppressive and 
antimicrobial therapy. With the emerge of small bowel and multivisceral 
transplantation in 1990, multiple factors, in addition to the clinical 
introduction of tacrolimus, have sustained and increased these efforts including 
evolution in surgical techniques and improvements in postoperative care. The 
most valuable achievement, however, has been the effective control of rejection 
and treatment of life threatening opportunistic infections. This chapter 
outlines the common current practice, surgical techniques and postoperative 
management of the three different types of intestinal transplantation. In 
addition, new strategies to overcome some of the current immunologic and 
biologic challenges are defined with the aim of raising the level of such a 
creative surgery to be a better therapy for TPN dependent patients.

PMID: 12370657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Minerva Chir. 2002 Oct;57(5):641-7.

[Superextended lymphadenectomy (D4) in the treatment of gastric adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Di Leo A(1), Pedrazzani C, Bonfiglio M, Borzellino G, Zerman G, Tasselli S, De 
Manzoni G.

Author information:
(1)I Divisione Clinicizzata di Chirurgia Generale, Università degli Studi di 
Verona, Verona, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of paraaortic lymph node metastasis (N4) in relation 
with the site of the tumour, and survival in patients with gastric cancer who 
underwent gastric resection and superextended lymphadenectomy (D4), have been 
analyzed.
METHODS: The frequency of paraaortic lymph node metastasis was studied in 132 
patients who underwent gastrectomy with D4 lymphadenectomy during the period 
June 1988 - December 2000. Six patients with plastic linitis and 3 with 
carcinoma of the gastric stump were excluded from the analysis.
RESULTS: In personal experience the most frequent postoperative morbidity were 
respiratory complication (7.6%) and pancreatic fistula (6.8%). Among the 132 
patients the total number of dissected nodes was 6362 and the mean number of 
dissected nodes per case was 48.2. The total number of retrieved lymph nodes 
from the paraaortic station was 755 with a mean number 5.7 per patients. N4 
nodal involvement was found in 25 (19%) of 132 patients: 14 (36%) patients with 
carcinoma located in the proximal third, 5 (13%) with tumour located in the 
middle third and 6 (11%) with carcinoma of the distal third of the stomach. The 
median survival time and the overall cumulative 5-year survival rate for 
curatively (R0) resected patients were 74 months and 52% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of metastasis in paraaortic lymph nodes in 19% of our 
patients, the low morbidity and mortality, the good survival after superextended 
lymphadenectomy, suggest that this lymphadenectomy should be considered in the 
curative surgical treatment of advanced gastric cancer, especially if located in 
the proximal third of the stomach (N4 in 36% of cases).

PMID: 12370665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2002 Oct;83(10):1472-5. doi: 10.1053/apmr.2002.35093.

Effect of a functional knee brace on knee flexion and extension strength after 
anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.

Birmingham TB(1), Kramer JF, Kirkley A.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Western 
Ontario, London, Ont, Canada. tbirming@uwo.ca

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effect of a knee brace on knee flexion and 
extension muscular strength of patients after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) 
reconstruction and to evaluate whether the effect of the brace depends on 
patient symptoms and muscular strength.
DESIGN: Repeated measures.
SETTING: A university-based outpatient orthopedic clinic and musculoskeletal 
assessment laboratory.
PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-seven patients (14 women, 13 men; mean age, 28+/-11 y) 
having undergone arthroscopically assisted ACL reconstruction by using a 
semitendinosus and gracilis autograft.
INTERVENTION: A custom-fit ACL functional knee brace.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The brace effect was calculated as the change in peak 
torque observed with the brace, expressed as a percentage of peak torque 
observed without the brace, during isokinetic concentric knee flexion and 
extension movements performed at 90 degrees /s. Patient symptoms were quantified 
by using a disease-specific health-related quality of life questionnaire.
RESULTS: Knee flexion strength decreased significantly with the brace (mean 
brace effect=-7.3%, P<.05). The brace effect during knee flexion varied 
considerably (-52% to 47%) and was significantly related to peak torque observed 
without the brace (r=-.50, P<.01). All other comparisons and correlations were 
not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that brace effects depend on patient 
strength. A brace may inhibit knee flexion strength of stronger patients, yet 
result in no change or even improvements in strength of weaker patients. Future 
research is required to further elucidate which patients may derive most benefit 
or detriment from bracing.

Copyright 2002 by the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine and the 
American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation

DOI: 10.1053/apmr.2002.35093
PMID: 12370890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Cardiol Clin. 2002 Aug;20(3):459-68, vii. doi:
10.1016/s0733-8651(02)00007-3.

Atrial arrhythmias in congenital heart disease.

Balaji S(1), Harris L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Cardiology, Oregon Health Sciences 
University, 707, SW Gaines Road, Mailcode CDRC-P, Portland, OR 97201, USA.

Surgical scars, volume overload and pressure overload are the three main 
determinants of atrial arrhythmias in patients with prior congenital heart 
surgery. The workup should include a thorough hemodynamic assessment. Treatment 
modalities available include drugs, pacemakers, catheter ablation and surgery. 
Despite the above, arrhythmias have a significant negative impact on life 
expectancy and quality in these patients. Newer surgical strategies for repair 
of the heart defect may delay or prevent the development of arrhythmias and are 
being actively pursued.

DOI: 10.1016/s0733-8651(02)00007-3
PMID: 12371013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2002 Sep;16(3):697-712. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5520(02)00017-x.

Skin and soft tissue infections in injection drug users.

Ebright JR(1), Pieper B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Wayne State 
University, Detroit Medical Center, 3990 John R, 4 Brush Center, Harper 
Hospital, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. jebright@intmed.wayne.edu

Skin and soft tissue infections are the most common cause for hospital admission 
of injection drug users. Cutaneous and subcutaneous abscesses are the most 
frequent type of SSTI and occur most commonly when drug users are no longer able 
to inject intravenously and resort to injection directly into skin or muscle. 
Abscesses may be difficult to differentiate from uncomplicated cellulitis or may 
be confused with pseudoaneurysms, hematoma, phlegmon, or thrombosed vein. 
Special studies, including ultrasonography; CT scans, and MR imaging; or careful 
incision and inspection may be necessary to clarify the extent of infection and 
the presence of abscess. These procedures may also help differentiate a 
subcutaneous abscess from a vascular structure. Uncomplicated cellulitis most 
commonly responds to antibiotic therapy directed toward Staphylococcus aureus 
and Streptococcus spp. In several recent studies, cutaneous and subcutaneous 
abscesses have been found to be caused by polymicrobial infections and to 
include anaerobic organisms as well as aerobic gram-positive cocci in a little 
more than 50% of cases. Complete, often repeated, incision and drainage is a 
prerequisite for successful outcome in these cases. Complications of SSTI are 
many and are potentially life threatening. They include direct extension of 
subcutaneous abscess into vital areas or structures, necrotizing fasciitis and 
myositis, bacteremia, and sepsis. An outbreak of a highly lethal SSTI that 
recently occurred in Scotland, Ireland, and England seems to have resulted from 
infection with Clostridia spp, including C. novyi and C. perfringens. A rare but 
well-documented SSTI in injection drug users is pyomyositis, an abscess-forming 
infection of skeletal muscle. More than 20 cases have been reported in temperate 
climates to date. Although not life-threatening, chronic cutaneous venous ulcers 
of the lower extremities are common and debilitating, requiring long-term 
multidisciplinary care for successful healing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5520(02)00017-x
PMID: 12371123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2002 Jun;107(6):561-6.

[Is there any difference in quality of life after 12 months surgical treatment 
of acquired heart valve disease in comparison to results after three months?].

[Article in Polish]

Rawczyńska-Englert I(1), Zakrzewski D, Hryniewiecki T, Cybulski M, 
Orłowska-Baranowska E, Nyznyk M, Grabowski M.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Wad Nabytych Serca Instytutu Kardiologii w Warszawie.

The quality of life in eighty patients three and twelve months after surgical 
treatment of acquired heart valve disease was assessed. The significant 
extension of distance in 6 minute walk test and clinical improvement measured in 
change of NYHA functional classes after three and twelve months was noticed. 
However twelve months after valve replacement in comparison to results after 
three months no further improvement of quality of life in the matter of 
physical, psychical and social factors was seen.

PMID: 12371389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Kidney Int. 2002 Nov;62(5):1848-54. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2002.00612.x.

Risk factors for late kidney allograft failure.

Ponticelli C(1), Villa M, Cesana B, Montagnino G, Tarantino A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Nefrologia e Dialisi, and Epidemiologic Unit, IRCCS Ospedale 
Maggiore Milano, Milano, Italy.

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2003 May;63(5):1960-1; author reply 1961.

BACKGROUND: While graft survival rates in the short term have improved 
dramatically, only a modest improvement has been shown in long-term graft 
survival rates. We evaluated the causes of late failure in renal allograft 
recipients treated with cyclosporine A (CsA).
METHODS: A total of 864 adults with a functioning graft at one year were 
evaluated. The end points were dialysis or death with a functioning graft.
RESULTS: The 13-year patient and graft survival probabilities were 0.82 and 
0.64, respectively. The graft half-life was 20.1 years and the pure graft 
half-life was 31.1 years. At multivariate analysis, plasma creatinine at one 
year (P = 0.0006; RR 1.72), low-density lipoproteins (LDL) at one year (P = 
0.0014; RR 1.65), older age (P = 0.0128; RR 1.50) and delayed graft function (P 
= 0.0350; RR 1.45) were associated with the end point. Chronic allograft 
nephropathy was the cause of failure in 97 patients, death in 70, recurrence of 
glomerulonephritis in 24, other events in 6. Cardiovascular complications were 
the most frequent cause of death. Post-transplant cardiovascular events were 
associated with: pre-transplant cardiovascular events (P = 0.0012; RR 2.65), 
older age (P = 0.0001; RR 2.46), pre-transplant arterial hypertension (P = 
0.0249; RR 1.57), smoking (P = 0.0235; RR 1.29), duration of dialysis (P = 
0.0229; RR 1.28). Mean serum cholesterol, LDL and triglycerides were each 
significantly associated post-transplant cardiovascular events.
CONCLUSIONS: The graft half-life was 20 years. Chronic allograft nephropathy was 
the leading cause of late failure, followed by death. If the data were censored 
by death, the projected pure graft half-life would be 31.1 years. Pre-transplant 
selection and preparation of the candidate as well as appropriate life style are 
recommended to improve life expectancy and extend graft survival.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2002.00612.x
PMID: 12371988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Eur J Pediatr. 2002 Oct;161 Suppl 1:S112-9. doi: 10.1007/s00431-002-1016-7.
Epub  2002 Aug 24.

Guidelines for management of glycogen storage disease type I - European Study on 
Glycogen Storage Disease Type I (ESGSD I).

Rake JP(1), Visser G, Labrune P, Leonard JV, Ullrich K, Smit GP; European Study 
on Glycogen Storage Disease Type I (ESGSD I).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University Hospital 
Groningen, PO Box 30001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands. rakejp@cs.com

Life-expectancy in glycogen storage disease type I (GSD I) has improved 
considerably. Its relative rarity implies that no metabolic centre has 
experience of large series of patients and experience with long-term management 
and follow-up at each centre is limited. There is wide variation in methods of 
dietary and pharmacological treatment. Based on the data of the European Study 
on Glycogen Storage Disease Type I, discussions within this study group, 
discussions with the participants of the international SHS-symposium 'Glycogen 
Storage Disease Type I and II: Recent Developments, Management and Outcome' 
(Fulda, Germany; 22-25th November 2000) and on data from the literature, 
guidelines are presented concerning: (1). diagnosis, prenatal diagnosis and 
carrier detection; (2). (biomedical) targets; (3). recommendations for dietary 
treatment; (4). recommendations for pharmacological treatment; (5). metabolic 
derangement/intercurrent infections/emergency treatment/preparation elective 
surgery; and (6). management of complications (directly) related to metabolic 
disturbances and complications which may develop with ageing and their 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: In this paper guidelines for the management of GSD I are presented.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-002-1016-7
PMID: 12373584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Eur J Pediatr. 2002 Oct;161 Suppl 1:S120-3. doi: 10.1007/s00431-002-1017-6.
Epub  2002 Sep 13.

Consensus guidelines for management of glycogen storage disease type 1b - 
European Study on Glycogen Storage Disease Type 1.

Visser G(1), Rake JP, Labrune P, Leonard JV, Moses S, Ullrich K, Wendel U, Smit 
GP; European Study on Glycogen Storage Disease Type I.

Author information:
(1)Beatrix Children's Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
g.visser@oprit.rug.nl

Life expectancy in glycogen storage disease type 1 (GSD-1) has improved 
considerably. Its relative rarity implies that no metabolic centre has 
experience of large series of patients and therefore experience with long-term 
management and follow-up at each centre is limited. There is wide variation in 
methods of dietary and pharmacological treatment. Based on data from the 
European Study on Glycogen Storage Disease Type 1, discussions within this study 
group together with those at the International SHS Symposium 'Glycogen Storage 
Disease Type I and II: Recent Developments, Management and Outcome', Fulda, 
Germany (2000) and on data from the literature, a series of guidelines were 
drawn up.
CONCLUSION: the following guidelines for the management of patients with 
glycogen storage disease type 1b are in addition to those general guidelines for 
glycogen storage disease type 1 and address specific problems related to 
neutropenia and neutrophil dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-002-1017-6
PMID: 12373585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Arch Virol. 2002 Oct;147(10):1963-75. doi: 10.1007/s00705-002-0857-8.

Properties of a chimeric simian-human immunodeficiency virus expressing an 
hybrid HIV-1 Nef/SIVmac Nef protein.

Bertsch C(1), Cluet D, Beyer C, Gloeckler L, Cecile A, Gut JP, Aubertin AM.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U544, Institut de Virologie, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, 
France.

The nef genes of human and simian immunodeficiency viruses code for a membrane 
associated protein critical for AIDS development. SIVmac Nef presents C-terminal 
a 27 amino acid extension absent of HIV-1 Nef. To estimate the influence of this 
C-terminal domain on virus properties, we constructed viruses derived from 
SIVmac239 by replacing SIV nef with HIV-1 Lai nef gene (SHIV NefLai4) or with a 
sequence encoding a Nef fusion protein: HIV-1 Lai Nef/SIV Nef-Cterm 
(SHIV-Cterm). The recombinant viruses replicated efficiently in vitro in CEMx174 
cells and in activated macaque PBMCs. The addition of SIV Nef C-terminal domain 
to HIV-1 Nef in SHIVNefLai4 did not change the in vitro properties of the 
chimeric virus, both viruses being more infectious than a nef deleted virus. 
Although the half-life of Nef fusion protein was augmented, SHIV-Cterm remained 
slightly less infectious than SIVmac239.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-002-0857-8
PMID: 12376757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. JAMA. 2002 Oct 16;288(15):1851-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.288.15.1851.

Cost and cost-effectiveness of an early invasive vs conservative strategy for 
the treatment of unstable angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction.

Mahoney EM(1), Jurkovitz CT, Chu H, Becker ER, Culler S, Kosinski AS, Robertson 
DH, Alexander C, Nag S, Cook JR, Demopoulos LA, DiBattiste PM, Cannon CP, 
Weintraub WS; TACTICS-TIMI 18 Investigators. Treat Angina with Aggrastat and 
Determine Cost of Therapy with an Invasive or Conservative Strategy-Thrombolysis 
in Myocardial Infarction.

Author information:
(1)Emory Center for Outcomes Research, Division of Cardiology, Department of 
Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, 1256 Briarcliff Rd, Suite 1N, 
Atlanta, GA 30306, USA. emahone@emory.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2002 Oct 16;288(15):1905-7.
    J Fam Pract. 2003 Jan;52(1):24-8.

CONTEXT: In the Treat Angina with Aggrastat and Determine Cost of Therapy with 
an Invasive or Conservative Strategy (TACTICS)-Thrombolysis in Myocardial 
Infarction (TIMI) 18 trial, patients with either unstable angina or 
non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (UA/NSTEMI) treated with the 
platelet glycoprotein (Gp IIb/IIIa) inhibitor tirofiban had a significantly 
reduced rate of major cardiac events at 6 months with an early invasive vs a 
conservative strategy.
OBJECTIVE: To examine total 6-month costs and long-term cost-effectiveness of an 
invasive vs a conservative strategy.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial including a priori economic end points.
SETTING: Hospitalization for UA/NSTEMI with 6-month follow-up period.
PATIENTS: A total of 2220 patients with UA/NSTEMI; economic data from 1722 
patients at US-non-VA hospitals.
INTERVENTION: Early invasive strategy with routine catheterization and 
revascularization as appropriate vs a conservative strategy with catheterization 
performed only for recurrent ischemia or a positive stress test.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Total 6-month costs and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio.
RESULTS: The average initial hospitalization costs among those in the invasive 
strategy group were $15714 vs $14047 among those in the conservative strategy 
group, a difference of $1667 (95% confidence interval [CI], $387-3091). The 
in-hospital costs were offset significantly at the 6-month follow-up, with an 
average cost in the invasive group of $6098 vs $7180 in the conservative group, 
a difference of $1082 (95% CI, -$2051 to $76). The average total costs at 6 
months, including productivity costs, for the invasive group was $21 813 vs $21 
227 for the conservative group, a $586 difference (95% CI, -$1087 to $2486). The 
average 6-month costs excluding productivity costs in the invasive group was $19 
780 vs $19 111 in the conservative group, a difference of $670, 95% CI; (-$1035 
to $2321). Estimated cost per year of life gained for the invasive strategy, 
based on projected life expectancy, was $12739 for the base case, and ranged 
from $8371 to $25769, based on model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with UA/NSTEMI treated with the Gp IIb/IIIa inhibitor 
tirofiban, the clinical benefit of an early invasive strategy was achieved with 
a small increase in cost, yielding favorable projected estimates of cost per 
year of life gained. These results support the broader use of an early invasive 
strategy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.288.15.1851
PMID: 12377083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. JAMA. 2002 Oct 16;288(15):1905-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.288.15.1905.

Invasive vs conservative management of acute coronary syndromes: do the data 
support the guidelines?

Cohen DJ.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2002 Oct 16;288(15):1851-8.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.288.15.1905
PMID: 12377091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Korean Med Sci. 2002 Oct;17(5):604-10. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2002.17.5.604.

Estimation of the burden of major cancers in Korea.

Yoon SJ(1), Lee H, Shin Y, Kim YI, Kim CY, Chang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. yoonsj02@korea.ac.kr

We estimated the burden of diseases in Korea especially caused by major cancers 
using DALY (disability adjusted life year) measurement. Firstly, the burden of 
disease due to premature death was estimated by using YLLs (years life lost due 
to premature death) measurement developed by the global burden of disease study 
group. Secondly, for the calculation of the YLD (years lived with disability), 
the following parameters were estimated in the formula; incidence rate, case 
fatality rate and disability weight of major cancers. Thirdly, we estimated DALY 
of major cancers by adding YLLs and YLDs. The burden of major cancers for male 
per 100,000 population was attributed mainly to liver cancer (528.8 
person-year), stomach cancer (451.4 person-year), and lung cancer (374.9 
person-year). The burden of major cancers for female per 100,000 population was 
attributed mainly to liver cancer (140.0 person-year), stomach cancer (259.7 
person-year), and lung cancer (125.2 person-year). Each of these cancers was 
responsible for the loss of over 100 person-year per 100,000 population based on 
our DALY measurement. We found the DALY method employed was appropriate to 
quantify the burden of disease. Thereby, it would provide a rational bases to 
plan a national health policy regarding the burden of disease caused by major 
cancers in Korea.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2002.17.5.604
PMCID: PMC3054945
PMID: 12378009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Pediatr. 2002 Oct;141(4):524-31. doi: 10.1067/mpd.2002.128116.

Newborn screening with tandem mass spectrometry: examining its 
cost-effectiveness in the Wisconsin Newborn Screening Panel.

Insinga RP(1), Laessig RH, Hoffman GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences and the Wisconsin State Laboratory 
of Hygiene, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53726-2397, USA.

Erratum in
    J Pediatr. 2003 Jan;142(1):56.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) 
in a neonatal screening panel for 14 fatty acid oxidation and organic acidemia 
disorders in the Wisconsin Newborn Screening Program.
STUDY DESIGN: An incremental cost-effectiveness analysis with a hypothetical 
cohort of 100,000 infants was performed. A threshold of $50,000/QALY 
(quality-adjusted life-year) was used to determine whether screening for 
medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MCAD) alone is cost-effective or 
whether additional disorders would need to be incorporated into the analysis to 
arrive at a conclusion regarding the overall cost-effectiveness of MS/MS.
RESULTS: Under conservative assumptions, screening for MCAD alone yields an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $41,862/QALY. With the use of more 
realistic assumptions, screening becomes more cost-effective ($6008/QALY) and 
remains cost-effective so long as the incremental cost of screening remains 
under $13.05 per test. Adding the incremental costs of detecting the 13 other 
disorders on the screening panel still yields a result well within accepted 
norms for cost-effectiveness ($15,252/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: In Wisconsin, MS/MS screening for MCAD alone appears to be 
cost-effective. Future analyses should examine the cost-effectiveness of 
alternative follow-up and treatment regimens for MCAD and other panel disorders.

DOI: 10.1067/mpd.2002.128116
PMID: 12378192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 2002 Jul-Sep;22(3):213-20.

[Value of the preoperative carcinoembryonic antigen as an independent prognostic 
factor in cancer of the colon and rectum].

[Article in Spanish]

Young Tabusso F(1), Payet Meza E, Celis Zapata J, Ruiz Figueroa E, Berrospi 
Espinoza F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugia de Abdomen del Instituto de Enfermedades Neoplasicas 
Eduardo Caceres Graziani, Lima Peru.

The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) has diverse applications when dealing with 
patients with colon-rectal cancer. The clinical value may be divided between 
preoperative evaluation of the tumor extension and its prognosis and the 
postoperative monitoring of the recurrence. We carried out this study to 
investigate and determine whether there is a relation between the preoperative 
value of the CEA and survival and if it may be considered as an independent 
prognosis factor in colon-rectal cancer. We evaluated 122 patients with 
colon-rectal cancer, who had had curative surgery and we analyzed different 
variables in univaried and multivaried form, to determine independent prognosis 
factors (CEA, sex, age, degree of differentiation, tumor size, ganglionar 
compromise, and the level of wall infiltration). The ganglionar compromise, the 
level of intestine wall infiltration and the CEA preoperative value lower than 5 
ng/ml had a significantly higher survival than those with values higher than 5 
ng/ml, regardless of other factors. We concluded that the preoperative 
determination of Carcinoembryonic Antigen represents a non-invasive study 
clinically useful in dealing with colon-rectal cancer and that its value has a 
significant statistical value as an independent prognosis factor in colon-rectal 
patient survival.

PMID: 12378215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(9):714-20.

Gender, literacy, and survival among Ethiopian adults, 1987 - 96.

Berhane Y(1), Hogberg U, Byass P, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia. rhr.aau@telecom.net.et

OBJECTIVE: To examine relationships between gender, literacy and survival among 
adults in Meskan and Mareko district, Ethiopia.
METHODS: On the basis of an established demographic surveillance system, an 
open-cohort analysis of 172726 person-years covering the period January 1987 to 
December 1996 was conducted in 10 randomly selected local communities.
FINDINGS: The crude mortality rate was 11.2 per 1000 person-years among adults 
