aged > or =15 years; the values for males and females were 11.9 and 10.6 per 
1000 person-years, respectively. Kaplan - Meier estimates showed that literacy 
and being female were both favourable for survival throughout adulthood. Cox's 
regression models showed that age, gender, literacy and area (rural lowland, 
rural highland and urban) were significant factors in survival: younger, female, 
literate urban dwellers were the most favoured. Gender differences in mortality 
were small in the rural areas, possibly because of the harsh living conditions 
and the marginalization of women. Literacy was a more significant factor for 
survival in the rural areas, where mortality was highest, while gender was more 
important in the one urban area studied. The levels of literacy were lowest 
among rural females.
CONCLUSION: Special attention should be given to raising literacy levels among 
rural women with a view to improving their survival.

PMCID: PMC2567606
PMID: 12378289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Osteoporos Int. 2002 Oct;13(10):765-7. doi: 10.1007/s001980200106.

Economic evaluation of interventions for osteoporosis.

Kanis JA, Jonsson B.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200106
PMID: 12378364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Osteoporos Int. 2002 Oct;13(10):768-76. doi: 10.1007/s001980200107.

A systematic review of health state utility values for osteoporosis-related 
conditions.

Brazier JE(1), Green C, Kanis JA; Committee Of Scientific Advisors International 
Osteoporosis Foundation.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

An important weakness of economic models in the field of osteoporosis has been 
the dependence on assumptions or expert judgements rather than empirical 
estimates for the utility values of key health events associated with 
osteoporosis such as hip, vertebral, wrist fracture and established 
osteoporosis. This paper seeks to identify the best available utility estimates 
for health states associated with osteoporosis and make recommendations about 
their use. It is based on a systematic search of the main literature databases. 
Studies meeting inclusion criteria have been reviewed in terms of the 
appropriateness of the valuation technique, the validity of the descriptive 
system (if one was used), the number and type of respondents, and overall 
quality of the study. Twenty three estimates of health state values (HSVs) were 
found across the four conditions from five studies. These empirical estimates 
were found to differ significantly from the commonly used assumptions in 
economic evaluation, but with a wide variation between estimates for the same 
state (0.32 to 0.80 for vertebral fracture states). This variation can be partly 
explained by the valuation technique, health state description and the 
background and perspective of respondent, and leaves scope for considerable 
discretion that could be abused. There are also problems in using values 
obtained from the study populations to those in economic models and the 
difficulty of predicting health state values in those who avoid a fracture. The 
review recommends a set of health state values as part of a "reference case" for 
use in economic models. Due to the paucity of good quality of estimates in this 
area, further recommendations are made regarding the design of future studies to 
collect HSVs relevant to economic models.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200107
PMID: 12378365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Prescrire Int. 2002 Oct;11(61):156-7.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: only treat when symptomatic.

[No authors listed]

(1) Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia usually occurs after the age of 60. It is more 
common in men than in women. (2) Life expectancy of asymptomatic patients 
differs little from that of the general population, and simple monitoring is 
generally recommended. (3) Chlorambucil is the standard drug used to slow 
progression of symptomatic disease. Fludarabine is used if chlorambucil fails. 
(4) There is no evidence that combination cytotoxic therapy is any better than 
chlorambucil or fludarabine alone. (5) Alemtuzumab is not yet adequately 
evaluated. It may prolong survival by a few months, but only at the cost of 
sometimes serious side effects.

PMID: 12378749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Otolaryngol Pol. 2002;56(4):437-43.

[Prognostic significance of Ki 67 and PCNA expression in laryngeal squamous cell 
carcinoma (morphometric evaluation of labelling index-L1].

[Article in Polish]

Woźniak A(1), Golusiński W, Kaczmarek E, Kaczmarek J, Kaczmarek J.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Zakład Patomorfologii Klinicznej AM im. K. Marcinkowskiego w 
Poznaniu.

There are no certain histological or morphological criteria which would improve 
the precision of life expectancy and the selection of the most efficient methods 
of treatment in patients with squamous cell laryngeal carcinoma. The analysis of 
proliferation activity using immunohistochemical markers such as antigens Ki 67 
and PCNA may be helpful to evaluate the aggressiveness of neoplastic cells. The 
study was conducted in 55 patients (aged 36-86 years, mean 62 years), 52 men and 
3 women. Immunohistochemical staining of antigens Ki 67 and PCNA using 
avidin-biotin method was performed in all cases. Microscopic images were stored, 
then nuclei of neoplastic cells expressing immunohistochemical reaction were 
localized using level segmentation method. Next labelling index was calculated. 
The correlation was observed between the LI for Ki 67 and tumor size (p < 
0.00001), stage (p < 0.001), metastases to lymph nodes (p, 0.00001) and site (p 
< 0.005). A weak correlation was observed between the LI for Ki 67 and presence 
of distant metastases (p < 0.06). The LI of neoplastic cells for PCNA was 
correlated with the tumor size (p < 0.00001), stage (p < 0.0001), metastases to 
lymph nodes (0.0001), site (p < 0.005) and presence of distant metastases (p < 
0.03). On the ground of the obtained results both markers can be suggested for 
the morphological and biological evaluation of the neoplastic cells in laryngeal 
squamous cell carcinoma.

PMID: 12378803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2002 Oct 18;298(1):60-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0006-291x(02)02396-3.

Interaction of casein kinase II with ribosomal protein L22 of Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Zhao W(1), Bidwai AP, Glover CV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Life Sciences Building, The 
University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-7229, USA.

The ubiquitous eukaryotic protein kinase CKII (casein kinase II) has been found 
to interact with a number of cellular proteins, either through the catalytic 
subunit or the regulatory subunit. Using the yeast two-hybrid screening method, 
we found that the catalytic subunit of Drosophila melanogaster CKII (DmCKII) 
interacts with Drosophila ribosomal protein L22 (rpL22). This interaction was 
also observed in vitro with a glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-rpL22 fusion 
protein. The predicted full-length Drosophila rpL22 protein has an N-terminal 
extension rich in alanine, lysine, and proline that appears to be unique to 
Drosophila. Deletion mapping revealed that the conserved core of rpL22 is 
responsible for the interaction with CKII. Moreover, purified DmCKII can 
phosphorylate a GST-L22 fusion protein at the C-terminal end, suggesting that 
this protein may be a substrate of CKII in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-291x(02)02396-3
PMID: 12379220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Endocrinol. 2002 Oct;175(1):129-41. doi: 10.1677/joe.0.1750129.

Bone defects in latent TGF-beta binding protein (Ltbp)-3 null mice; a role for 
Ltbp in TGF-beta presentation.

Dabovic B(1), Chen Y, Colarossi C, Zambuto L, Obata H, Rifkin DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, New York University School of Medicine, 550 First 
Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA.

The latent transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta binding proteins (LTBP)-1, -3 
and -4 bind the latent form of the multipotent cytokine TGF-beta. To examine the 
function of the LTBPs, we made a null mutation of Ltbp-3 by gene targeting. The 
homozygous mutant animals developed cranio-facial malformations by 12 days. By 
three months, there was a pronounced rounding of the cranial vault, extension of 
the mandible beyond the maxilla, and kyphosis. The mutant animals developed 
osteosclerosis of the long bones and vertebrae as well as osteoarthritis between 
6 and 9 months of age. These latter phenotypic changes were similar to those 
described for mice that have impaired TGF-beta signaling. Thus, we suggest that 
Ltbp-3 plays an important role in regulating TGF-beta bioavailability as the 
phenotype of the Ltbp-3 null mouse appears to result from decreased TGF-beta 
signaling. Histological examination of the skulls from null animals revealed no 
effects on calvarial suture closure. However, the synchondroses in the skull 
base were obliterated within 2 weeks of birth. This is in contrast to the 
wild-type synchondroses, which remain unossified throughout the life of the 
animal and enable growth of the skull base through endochondral ossification. 
Histological changes in mutant basooccipital-basosphenoid synchondrosis were 
observed 1.5 days after birth. Compared with wild-type or heterozygous 
littermates, the basooccipital-basosphenoid synchondrosis of Ltbp-3 null mice 
contained increased numbers of hypertrophic chondrocytes. The expression of bone 
sialoprotein-1 (a marker for osteoblasts) was observed in cells surrounding the 
synchondrosis at postnatal day 1.5 indicating ectopic ossification. The 
expression of Indian hedgehog (Ihh) (a marker for chondrocytes committed to 
hypertrophic differentiation) was found through the basooccipital-basosphenoid 
synchondrosis, whereas the expression of parathyroid hormone related protein 
(PTHrP), which inhibits chondrocyte differentiation, appeared to be diminished 
in Ltbp-3 null mice. This suggests that Ltbp-3 may control chondrocyte 
differentiation by regulating TGF-beta availability. TGF-beta may regulate PTHrP 
expression either downstream of Ihh or independently of Ihh signaling.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1750129
PMID: 12379497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2002 Oct 15;166(8):1062-72. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.2105116.

Randomized controlled economic evaluation of asthma self-management in primary 
health care.

Schermer TR(1), Thoonen BP, van den Boom G, Akkermans RP, Grol RP, Folgering HT, 
van Weel C, van Schayck CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice/Family Medicine, Center for Quality of Care 
Research, and University Lungcentre Dekkerswald, University Medical Center St. 
Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2003 Apr;3(2):117-9.

In this randomized controlled economic evaluation we compared guided asthma 
self-management with usual asthma care according to guidelines for Dutch family 
physicians. Nineteen family practices were randomized, and 193 adults with 
stable asthma (98 self-management, 95 usual care) were included and monitored 
for 2 years. We hypothesized that introducing self-management would not 
compromise asthma control and cost would be equal to or lower than in usual 
care. Patient-specific cost data were collected, preference-based utilities were 
assessed, and incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and 
successfully treated week gained was calculated. Self-management patients gained 
0.039 QALY (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.003 to 0.075) and experienced 81 
(95% CI, 78 to 84) successfully treated weeks in 2 years' time; the 
corresponding figures for usual care were 0.024 (95% CI, -0.022 to 0.071) and 75 
(95% CI, 72 to 78). Total costs were 1,084 euros(95% CI, 938 to 1,228) for 
self-management and 1,097 euros (95% CI, 933 to 1,260) for usual care. 
Self-management patients consumed 1,680 (95% CI, 1,538 to 1,822) puffs of 
budesonide, usual care patients 1,897 (95% CI, 1,679 to 2,115). Mean 
productivity cost due to limited activity days was 213 euros lower among 
self-management patients. When all costs were included, self-management was 
cost-effective on all outcomes. The probability that self-management was 
cost-effective relative to usual care in terms of QALYs was 52%. We conclude 
that guided self-management is a safe and efficient alternative approach 
compared with asthma treatment usually provided in Dutch primary care.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.2105116
PMID: 12379549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Ethiop Med J. 2001 Oct;39(4):271-81.

Burden of disease analysis in rural Ethiopia.

Abdulahi H(1), Mariam DH, Kebede D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, 
P.O. Box 9086, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

We describe the design and results of a study conducted to determine the 
magnitude and healthy years of life lost due to morbidity and mortality for 
major causes in rural Ethiopia. The design included a cross-sectional household 
survey to determine the magnitude and causes of morbidity and a retrospective 
longitudinal study to determine the magnitude and causes of mortality. The study 
was conducted between June 1 and July 12, 1998, within the Butajira Rural Health 
Project (BRHP) setting. The source population were all people residing in the 
district and the study population were the sample of households for the BRHP 
which are the inhabitants of nine rural and one urban Kebeles (villages) in 
Butajira area, which is located about 130 Kms south of Addis Ababa. The sample 
was previously selected randomly using probabilities proportional to size, 
constituting 10% of the total district population (approximately 32,000) and has 
been under continuous demographic surveillance since 1987. All individuals who 
were sick two weeks preceding the survey and all those who deceased in the two 
years prior to the survey were included in the present analysis. The 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) lost was used as a measure of the burden 
of disease from the analyzed data. According to the results, prevalence of 
morbidity within the preceding two weeks was 13.8% (95% CI = 12.8-14.8). In 
addition, there were 875 deaths during the preceding two years making an annual 
mortality rate of 13.5 per 1,000 populations (95% CI = 13.13-13.87). The total 
burden of disease in terms of DALYs lost calculated from these data was 59,125 
per 100,000 populations (95% CI = 58,591-59,659). Communicable, maternal, 
perinatal and nutritional problems contributed to 72% of the total DALYs lost; 
non-communicable diseases contributed to 24% of the DALYs lost while the 
proportion of DALYs lost due to injuries was only 4%. The results were similar 
to previous estimates for countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.

PMID: 12380227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Food Prot. 2002 Oct;65(10):1580-5. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-65.10.1580.

Effective use of nisin to control Bacillus and Clostridium spoilage of a 
pasteurized mashed potato product.

Thomas LV(1), Ingram RE, Bevis HE, Davies EA, Milne CF, Delves-Broughton J.

Author information:
(1)Danisco, Innovation Department, Beaminster, Dorset, UK. 
linda.thomas@danisco.com

Heat-resistant spore-forming bacteria such as Bacillus and Clostridium can 
survive and grow in cooked potato products. This situation represents both a 
public health problem and an economic problem. The natural food preservative 
nisin is used in heat-treated foods to prevent the growth of such bacteria. A 
cocktail of Clostridium sporogenes and Clostridium tyrobutyricum spores was 
inoculated into cooked mashed potatoes, which were vacuum packed, pasteurized, 
and incubated at 8 and 25 degrees C. The shelf life of the mashed potatoes at 25 
degrees C was extended by at least 58 days with the addition 6.25 microg of 
nisin per g. At 8 degrees C, in control samples not containing nisin, the 
natural contaminant Bacillus grew, but the inoculated Clostridium strains did 
not until the temperature was raised to 20 degrees C after 39 days. No bacterial 
growth occurred in nisin-containing samples. The shelf life of the mashed 
potatoes was extended by at least 30 days with 6.25 microg of nisin per g. In 
trials involving a cocktail of Bacillus cereus and Bacillus subtilis strains, 
6.25 microg of nisin per g extended the shelf life of mashed potato samples that 
were not vacuum packed by at least 27 days at 8 degrees C. At 25 degrees C, 25 
microg of nisin per g extended shelf life by a similar period. Shelf life 
extension was also observed at lower nisin levels. Microbiological analysis of 
the mashed potato ingredients showed that a high spore level was associated with 
the onion powder. It is emphasized that the preservative and the ingredients 
must be well mixed to ensure good nisin efficacy. Nisin remained at effective 
levels after pasteurization, and good retention was observed throughout the 
shelf life of the mashed potatoes.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-65.10.1580
PMID: 12380742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Sep-Oct;17(5):671-7.

Clinical outcome of Brånemark System implants of various diameters: a 
retrospective study.

Friberg B(1), Ekestubbe A, Sennerby L.

Author information:
(1)The Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, Faculty of Odontology, 
Göteborg University, Sweden. bertil.friberg@vgregion.se

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcome of the 3 
different diameters of Brånemark System implants, with special focus on the 
5.0-mm-diameter implant.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ninety-eight patients (99 jaws) with a mean age of 62 
years were included in this retrospective report. The mean follow-up period was 
2 years and 8 months. A total of 379 Brånemark System implants (3.75 mm 
diameter, n = 146; 4.0 mm diameter, n = 76; 5.0 mm diameter, n = 157) were 
placed in 29 edentulous and 70 partially edentulous jaws.
RESULTS: Eight of the 146 implants in the 3.75-mm-diameter group failed (5.5%). 
The corresponding figures for the 4.0- and 5.0-mm-diameter implants were 3 of 76 
(3.9%) and 7 of 157 (4.5%), respectively.
DISCUSSION: All failures were recorded in maxillae, ie, 18 of the 298 placed, 
and the majority of these were found in bone quantity group B and quality group 
2. Only 3 implants of 131 failed in bone judged as quality 4. The marginal bone 
loss was low for the 3 implant diameter groups.
CONCLUSION: The favorable outcome in bone of poor quality is ascribed partly to 
the use of an adapted preparation technique and extended healing periods for 
achievement of the best primary and secondary implant stability possible.

PMID: 12381067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Sep-Oct;17(5):678-86.

A follow-up study of maxillary implants supporting an overdenture: clinical and 
radiographic results.

Mericske-Stern R(1), Oetterli M, Kiener P, Mericske E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of Bern, Switzerland. 
regina.mericske@zmk.unibe.ch

PURPOSE: Studies of maxillary overdentures supported by endosseous implants 
often show a high implant failure rate. The aim of the present investigation was 
to evaluate clinically and radiographically non-submerged implants supporting an 
overdenture in the maxilla.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-one patients were consecutively admitted for 
treatment. The standard procedure was to place 4 implants and to mount a 
U-shaped bar for overdenture connection. When the overdenture was delivered to 
the patients, peri-implant parameters were recorded and radiographs were taken. 
All patients were required to follow a maintenance care program. In the context 
of this study, all patients were clinically examined and the peri-implant 
parameters were compared. Crestal bone loss was analyzed using linear 
radiographic measurements. A life table analysis was applied to calculate the 
cumulative survival rate (CSR).
RESULTS: Three implants failed in the early healing phase, and 3 patients lost 6 
implants during the loading period. The 5-year CSR of all implants was 94.2%. 
The peri-implant parameters gave evidence of healthy soft tissues and good oral 
hygiene. The increases in probing depths and attachment loss were significant (P 
< .05). The mean marginal crestal bone loss was about 0.7 mm and was 
statistically significant at mesial and distal sites (P < .001).
DISCUSSION: The correlation between clinical attachment loss and crestal bone 
loss was not significant. Pronounced marginal bone loss was found around some 
implants.
CONCLUSION: In planned maxillary overdenture treatment, it is possible to 
achieve a satisfactory survival rate of the implants.

PMID: 12381068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Drugs Aging. 2002;19(9):647-69. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200219090-00003.

HIV disease and advanced age: an increasing therapeutic challenge.

Manfredi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, University of Bologna, S. Orsola Hospital, Via Massarenti 11, I-40138 
Bologna, Italy. manfredi@med.unibo.it

The mean age of patients at both first HIV detection and AIDS diagnosis is 
progressively rising over time. However, reliable epidemiological estimates, 
clinical data or controlled therapeutic and outcome figures are lacking for 
elderly patients, especially with regard to laboratory and clinical response to 
antiretroviral therapy, treatment tolerability, drug-drug interactions, short- 
and long-term toxicity, and interactions with underlying illnesses and 
concurrent pharmacological treatment. In fact, the large majority of randomised, 
controlled trials evaluating and comparing new antiretroviral drugs or anti-HIV 
therapeutic strategies, as well as antimicrobial treatment or chemoprophylaxis 
of HIV-related complications, either excluded patients with advanced age and/or 
concurrent disorders or did not offer substudies or detailed data analysis 
focusing on older patients compared with younger ones. The life expectancy of 
HIV-infected persons receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) is 
now extended (approaching that of the general population), so that the 
definition of AIDS has lost its epidemiological and clinical significance thanks 
to the immune reconstitution resulting from potent antiretroviral therapy. 
However, an ever-increasing number of individuals aged > or =50 years with HIV 
infection is expected in the coming years, as a result of both increased 
survival of patients with treated disease and delayed recognition of individuals 
with occult HIV disease. The limited data available about combined 
antiretroviral therapy in the elderly seem to show an overlapping virological 
success rate but a slower and blunted immune recovery compared with younger 
patients. Thymic output, however, seems somewhat preserved even in adulthood and 
may contribute to the reconstitution of most of the quantitative and functional 
T cell abnormalities caused by HIV disease. More attention must be paid to 
underlying end-organ disorders, as well as expected pharmacological interactions 
and combined drug toxicity that may interfere with HAART efficacy and patients' 
compliance with recommended regimens and could lead to increased adverse 
effects. The available guidelines for antiretroviral treatment and therapy and 
prophylaxis of AIDS-related illnesses should be regularly updated and should 
include problems related to HIV disease in an aging population. Specific trials 
or substudies focusing on older people are warranted to obtain controlled data 
on all issues of antiretroviral therapy in the elderly, including time and mode 
of initiation, and modification and salvage HAART regimens. Antiretroviral drug 
dosage adjustment to take into account underlying pathological conditions or 
other pharmacological treatments is another emerging issue.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200219090-00003
PMID: 12381235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Drugs Aging. 2002;19(9):671-84. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200219090-00004.

Optimising the use of beta-blockers in older patients with heart failure.

Owen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Kent and Canterbury Hospital, Kent. Etherbert Road, Canterbury, CT1 3NG, UK. 
DrAOwen@aol.com

Heart failure is predominantly a disease of the older person with half of all 
patients with the condition aged >75 years. Diuretics are the first-line 
symptomatic treatment for heart failure. beta-blockers should be initiated on an 
outpatient basis once the patient is stable, euvolaemic (by means of a diuretic) 
and established on an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Large 
trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of the beta-blockers carvedilol, 
metoprolol and bisoprolol in patients with heart failure, most of whom were also 
receiving ACE inhibitors. However, the mean age of patients in these trials was 
generally 60 to 65 years, with very few patients aged >75 years being recruited. 
It is, thus, not immediately clear how to apply these trial results to older 
patients with heart failure. Subgroup analyses from these large beta-blocker 
heart failure trials suggest that older patients gain similar benefit from 
beta-blocker treatment to younger patients. The trials, however, give no 
guidance as to whether older patients should receive the same target dosage or 
titration regimen as younger patients. It is suggested that a less aggressive 
titration regimen may be more appropriate for older patients while still 
attempting to achieve the trial target dosages. Titration can be safely achieved 
on an outpatient basis. In particular, a period of observation in the clinic 
after initiation of treatment does not appear to be necessary. The survival 
benefit resulting from the use of a beta-blocker in patients with heart failure 
is modest (months rather than years). It is, thus important not to neglect the 
effects of treatment on quality of life. A proportion of patients experience 
adverse effects with a beta-blocker. For such patients a balance needs to be 
made between the adverse effects on quality of life and the likely extension of 
life from the use of a beta-blocker. For patients who can tolerate a 
beta-blocker, the available evidence suggests that it can improve quality of 
life. The evidence currently available does not support the use of an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) in addition to an ACE inhibitor and 
beta-blocker. For patients unable to tolerate an ACE inhibitor or beta-blocker, 
the use of an ARB may confer some advantage.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200219090-00004
PMID: 12381236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Med J Aust. 2002 Oct 21;177(8):428-34. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2002.tb04883.x.

Cholesterol-lowering therapy with pravastatin in patients with average 
cholesterol levels and established ischaemic heart disease: is it 
cost-effective?

Glasziou PP(1), Eckermann SD, Mulray SE, Simes RJ, Martin AJ, Kirby AC, Hall JP, 
Caleo S, White HD, Tonkin AM.

Author information:
(1)c/- Professor John Simes, NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, Locked Bag 77, 
Camperdown, NSW 1450, Australia. p.glasziou@sph.uq.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To measure the cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering therapy 
with pravastatin in patients with established ischaemic heart disease and 
average baseline cholesterol levels.
DESIGN: Prospective economic evaluation within a double-blind randomised trial 
(Long-Term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischaemic Disease [LIPID]), in which 
patients with a history of unstable angina or previous myocardial infarction 
were randomised to receive 40 mg of pravastatin daily or matching placebo.
PATIENTS AND SETTING: 9014 patients aged 35-75 years from 85 centres in 
Australia and New Zealand, recruited from June 1990 to December 1992.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per death averted, cost per life-year gained, and 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained, calculated from measures of 
hospitalisations, medication use, outpatient visits, and quality of life.
RESULTS: The LIPID trial showed a 22% relative reduction in all-cause mortality 
(P < 0.001). Over a mean follow-up of 6 years, hospital admissions for coronary 
heart disease and coronary revascularisation were reduced by about 20%. Over 
this period, pravastatin cost $A4913 per patient, but reduced total 
hospitalisation costs by $A1385 per patient and other long-term medication costs 
by $A360 per patient. In a subsample of patients, average quality of life was 
0.98 (where 0 = dead and 1 = normal good health); the treatment groups were not 
significantly different. The absolute reduction in all-cause mortality was 3.0% 
(95% CI, 1.6%-4.4%), and the incremental cost was $3246 per patient, resulting 
in a cost per life saved of $107 730 (95% CI, $68 626-$209 881) within the study 
period. Extrapolating long-term survival from the placebo group, the 
undiscounted cost per life-year saved was $7695 (and $10 938 with costs and 
life-years discounted at an annual rate of 5%).
CONCLUSIONS: Pravastatin therapy for patients with a history of myocardial 
infarction or unstable angina and average cholesterol levels reduces all-cause 
mortality and appears cost effective compared with accepted treatments in 
high-income countries.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2002.tb04883.x
PMID: 12381252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Ann Rheum Dis. 2002 Dec;61 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):iii51-60. doi: 
10.1136/ard.61.suppl_3.iii51.

Anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha therapy for ankylosing spondylitis: 
international experience.

Braun J(1), Sieper J, Breban M, Collantes-Estevez E, Davis J, Inman R, 
Marzo-Ortega H, Mielants H.

Author information:
(1)Rheumazentrum Ruhrgebiet, Landgrafenstrasse 15, 44652 Herne, Germany. 
j.braun@rheumazentrum-ruhrgebiet.de

The conventional approach to treatment of patients with spondyloarthritis (SpA), 
particularly ankylosing spondylitis (AS), has serious limitations, adding a 
sense of urgency to the evaluation of new treatments for these rheumatic 
disorders. Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) is a cytokine that has been 
shown to mediate inflammatory and regulatory activities in SpA and other immune 
mediated diseases, including other arthritides and inflammatory bowel disease. 
Positive results have been reported in several international open label and 
randomised controlled trials of infliximab and etanercept, the two main 
biological agents targeting TNFalpha, which have included approximately 300 
patients with SpA. Specifically, TNFalpha-directed therapy resulted in 
significant improvements in disease activity, function, and quality of life in 
these patients, most of whom had AS and received infliximab. Preliminary 
evidence from open label, long term extension trials suggests clinical benefit 
with continued use. Serious side effects were rare and consistent with 
experience from patient groups receiving infliximab or etanercept treatment for 
inflammatory bowel disease or rheumatoid arthritis. Together, these findings 
herald an age of more effective treatment of patients with AS with anti-TNFalpha 
and other emerging biological agents.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.61.suppl_3.iii51
PMCID: PMC1766732
PMID: 12381511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Oncology. 2002;63(3):266-9. doi: 10.1159/000065475.

Long-term mortality of women with a diagnosis of breast cancer.

Levi F(1), Randimbison L, Te VC, La Vecchia C.

Author information:
(1)Registre vaudois des tumeurs and Unité d'épidémiologie du cancer, Institut 
universitaire de médecine sociale et préventive, CHUV-Falaises 1, Lausanne, 
Switzerland. Fabio.Levi@inst.hospvd.ch

Survival from breast cancer has improved over the last few years, but scanty 
information is available on the long-term follow-up. We therefore considered 
data on 1,095 women with breast cancer diagnosed between 1974 and 1984 in the 
Swiss Cancer Registry of Vaud (population 616,000 inhabitants) who had survived 
for at least 10 years. Overall, 129 deaths from breast cancer were observed 
10-19 years after the original diagnosis, corresponding to a standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) of 20.3 (95% confidence interval (CI) 17.0-24.2). An 
excess mortality from breast cancer was observed 10-14 (SMR = 22.6) and 15-19 
(SMR = 13.4) years after the original diagnosis. The SMR was 25.2 for women 
diagnosed with breast cancer at age <60 years. Consequently, total mortality was 
also elevated (SMR = 2.0, based on 294 deaths). None of the other causes of 
death was significantly elevated, but mortality from cardiovascular disease was 
1.4 (95% CI 0.9-2.0) 15-19 years after breast cancer diagnosis. A second primary 
breast cancer was observed in 89 women. Of these, 19 (21%) died of breast 
cancer. Therefore in women diagnosed with breast cancer, there remains a 
substantial excess of breast cancer mortality up to 20 years after the original 
diagnosis.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000065475
PMID: 12381906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Jpn J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Sep;50(9):366-70. doi:
10.1007/BF02913185.

Surgical treatment for cardiovascular lesions of patients with Marfan syndrome.

Yamazaki F(1), Shimamoto M, Fujita S, Nakai M, Kono T, Aoyama A, Chen F, Nakata 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Shizuoka City Hospital, 10-93 
Ootemachi, Shizuoka 420-8630, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Without treatment, the life expectancy of patients with Marfan 
syndrome is reduced by the associated cardiovascular abnormalities. In this 
study, we reviewed our experience of the surgical treatment of this condition to 
identify the primary indication for surgical repair and the optimal surgical 
management.
METHODS: Between January 1986 and December 2000, 44 patients underwent surgery 
for Marfan syndrome at Shizuoka City Hospital. There were 28 male and 16 female 
patients, with a mean age of 40.9 +/- 15.0 years. Nineteen of the patients had 
developed type A dissection of the aortic arch. Three patients underwent 
remodelling of the aortic root. Ten patients required multiple repeat surgical 
interventions.
RESULTS: There were four early and five late deaths. The survival rate at 1, 5, 
and at 10 years was 90.9%, 80.5%, and 74.3%, respectively. Freedom from 
postoperative events, which included cardiac death, additional surgery, and new 
or repeat aortic dissection at 1, 5, and at 10 years was 93.0%, 69.1%, and 
53.2%, respectively. Among patients having type A dissection, the mean annual 
enlargement in the diameter at the level of the proximal descending aorta was 
4.0 +/- 4.0 mm. Postoperative echocardiography with Doppler studies was 
performed in series on patients who had received remodelling of the aortic root, 
with subsequent mild aortic regurgitation in 2 patients and moderate 
regurgitation in 1 patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Repeated postoperative studies with CT scans and earlier surgical 
intervention before the onset of aortic dissection are mandatory for improvement 
in the long-term survival rate of patients with Marfan syndrome. A valve-sparing 
procedure for a deformed aortic valve is promising, although the long-term 
results are not yet clear.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02913185
PMID: 12382402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1999 Jul;54(4):P205-13. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/54b.4.p205.

Contribution of social arrangements to the attainment of successful aging--the 
experience of the Israeli Kibbutz.

Leviatan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research of the Kibbutz, University of Haifa, Israel. 
leviatan@soc.haifa.ac.il

The aging populations of the Israeli Kibbutz communities demonstrate 
characteristics of "successful aging" expressed in high life expectancy and 
positive well-being. This article summarizes twenty years of focused research 
about the elderly members of kibbutzim to show that their demonstration of 
successful aging is mostly due to the social arrangements and policies adopted 
by their communities in the domains of work, social relations, stability in 
social roles, and surroundings. Further support for the importance attached to 
social arrangements is illustrated by the negative effects on well-being that 
result of structural changes, experienced by some kibbutzim, in the direction of 
becoming more similar to the rest of society. It is suggested that many of the 
kibbutz principles of social policies and arrangements could be emulated by the 
rest of industrial societies to improve chances of "successful aging" among 
their elderly populations.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/54b.4.p205
PMID: 12382589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1999 Jul;54(4):S184-93. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/54b.4.s184.

Estimating the proportion of Americans ever experiencing poverty during their 
elderly years.

Rank MR(1), Hirschl TA.

Author information:
(1)George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University, St. Louis, 
Missouri, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study estimates the age-specific and cumulative proportions of 
American adults who will experience poverty at some point during their elderly 
years. These life-span proportions represent a substantially different approach 
to understanding poverty than calculating either yearly cross-sectional rates or 
poverty spell durations.
METHODS: Our estimations are derived through a series of life tables built upon 
25 waves of the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID).
RESULTS: The analyses indicate that 40% of America's elderly population will 
experience a year below the poverty line at some point between the ages of 60 
and 90, and 48% of elders will experience poverty at the 125% level. The data 
further reveal that this life-span risk of poverty has remained relatively 
stable throughout the period of data collection (1968-1992). Finally, the 
likelihood of elderly Americans ever encountering a year below the poverty line 
increases dramatically for those who are Black, not married, and/or who have 
less than 12 years of education.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that in spite of relatively low cross-sectional 
rates of elderly poverty in America, the likelihood of impoverishment at some 
point during the later years of life remains a very real possibility.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/54b.4.s184
PMID: 12382596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2002 Sep 16;50(15):1-119.

Deaths: final data for 2000.

Miniño AM, Arias E, Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Smith BL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2000 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic 
origin, race, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State of 
residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described. A previous 
report presented preliminary mortality data for 2000.
METHODS: In 2000 a total of 2,403,351 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, 
and coroners complete death certificates. Original records are filed in the 
State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a national 
database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center 
for Health Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Causes 
of death are processed in accordance with the Tenth Revision of the 
International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10).
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate for the United States in 2000 was 872.0 
deaths per 100,000 standard population, a decrease of 1.1 percent from the 1999 
rate and a record-low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth rose by 0.2 
year to a record high of 76.9 years. Considering all deaths, age-specific death 
rates rose only for those 45-54 years and declined for a number of age groups 
including those 1-4 years, 55-64 years, 65-74 years, 75-84 years, and 85 years 
and over. Fourteen of the 15 leading causes of death are the same for 1999 and 
2000. Heart disease and cancer continued to be the leading and second leading 
causes of death, accounting for over one-half of all deaths when combined. 
Aortic aneurysm, which was the 15th leading cause of death in 1999, dropped from 
the list in 2000 and, in its place, Pneumonitis due to solids and liquids is the 
15th leading cause of death. The infant mortality rate reached a record low 
value of 6.9 infant deaths per 1,000 live births, declining 2.8 percent from the 
infant mortality rate in 1999 (7.1 deaths per 1,000 live births).
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality continued long-term trends. The slight 
increase in the age-adjusted death rate that was experienced in 1999 reversed 
itself in accordance to a longer standing decreasing pattern. Life expectancy 
increased 0.2 years, and the infant mortality rate decreased statistically to a 
record low 6.9 deaths per 1,000 live births, thus maintaining the steady decline 
that has characterized it for the past four decades.

PMID: 12382630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Hist Cienc Saude Manguinhos. 2002 Jan-Apr;9(1):61-78. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-59702002000100004.

[Old age, normality versus pathology].

[Article in Portuguese]

Groisman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Alzheimer do Instituto de Psiquiatria da Universidade, Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro. dgrois@pobox.com

Since life expectancy of Brazilian population increased and aging was considered 
a "social problem", there has been a boom of specialists in old age. 
Gerontologists and geriatricians are now playing a relevant role in setting new 
trends to the management of issues related to old age. However, gerontology as a 
field of knowledge seems to have internal questions that apparently hinder its 
professional consolidation and its scientific recognition. In this article, the 
author focus the difficulties gerontology has in order to delimitate its field 
of action and to define the object of its studies. The author argues that such 
difficulties derive from a central point: the impossibility to delimitate the 
frontiers between what is normal and what is pathological in old age. He also 
analyzes the constitution of medical knowledge on aging in a historical 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-59702002000100004
PMID: 12382633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Int J Food Microbiol. 2002 Nov 15;79(1-2):3-16. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00174-5.

Preservation and fermentation: past, present and future.

Ross RP(1), Morgan S, Hill C.

Author information:
(1)pross@moorepark.teagasc.ie

Preservation of food and beverages resulting from fermentation has been an 
effective form of extending the shelf-life of foods for millennia. 
Traditionally, foods were preserved through naturally occurring fermentations, 
however, modern large scale production generally now exploits the use of defined 
strain starter systems to ensure consistency and quality in the final product. 
This review will mainly focus on the use of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) for food 
improvement, given their extensive application in a wide range of fermented 
foods. These microorganisms can produce a wide variety of antagonistic primary 
and secondary metabolites including organic acids, diacetyl, CO2 and even 
antibiotics such as reuterocyclin produced by Lactobacillus reuteri. In 
addition, members of the group can also produce a wide range of bacteriocins, 
some of which have activity against food pathogens such as Listeria 
monocytogenes and Clostridium botulinum. Indeed, the bacteriocin nisin has been 
used as an effective biopreservative in some dairy products for decades, while a 
number of more recently discovered bacteriocins, such as lacticin 3147, 
demonstrate increasing potential in a number of food applications. Both of these 
lactococcal bacteriocins belong to the lantibiotic family of posttranslationally 
modified bacteriocins that contain lanthionine, beta-methyllanthionine and 
dehydrated amino acids. The exploitation of such naturally produced antagonists 
holds tremendous potential for extension of shelf-life and improvement of safety 
of a variety of foods.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00174-5
PMID: 12382680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Int J Food Microbiol. 2002 Nov 15;79(1-2):27-34. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00176-9.

Bacterial membranes: the effects of chill storage and food processing. An 
overview.

Russell NJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Imperial College, Ashford, Kent, UK. 
nicholas.russell@ic.ac.uk

The shelf life of food is extended by refrigeration because the metabolic 
processes of food-associated microorganisms are slowed by the lowered 
temperature. Nonetheless, cold-adapted psychrotrophic food-poisoning and 
food-spoilage bacteria remain a concern because they possess cold-adapted 
proteins and membrane lipids that facilitate growth at low temperatures. The use 
of membrane-disrupting novel preservation techniques, such as ultrasound, high 
hydrostatic pressure or pulsed electric field, offer the potential for an 
extension of shelf life. This review considers the interacting and potentially 
synergistic effects of chill storage or mild heat treatment on membrane 
properties, with the disruptive effects of membrane-targeted physical 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00176-9
PMID: 12382682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Int J Food Microbiol. 2002 Nov 15;79(1-2):35-45. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00177-0.

Preservation of fresh meat with active and modified atmosphere packaging 
conditions.

Skandamis PN(1), Nychas GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Agricultural University of Athens, 
Greece. gjn@aua.gr

The sensory, microbiological and physicochemical attributes of fresh meat stored 
at 5 and 15 degrees C were affected by the combined effect of volatile compounds 
of oregano essential oil and modified atmosphere packaging conditions (40% 
CO2/30% N2/30% O2, 100% CO2, 80% CO2/20% air, vacuum pack and air). It was found 
that the extension of shelf life of meat samples depended on the packaging 
conditions and augmented in the order: air < vacuum pack < 40% CO2/30% N2/30% O2 
< 80% CO2/ 20% air < 100% CO2. Longer shelf life was observed in samples 
supplemented with the volatile compounds of oregano essential oil and stored 
under the same packaging conditions mentioned above. The extension of shelf life 
may be due to the synergistic effect of volatile compounds of oregano essential 
oil and the modified atmosphere packaging used on the microbiological and 
physicochemical characteristics of meat. Indeed, both these hurdles can prolong 
and delay microbial growth or suppress the final counts of the spoilage 
microorganisms in comparison with the 'control' samples. The effect of essential 
oil volatile compounds was even more pronounced on the physicochemical changes 
of meat samples caused by microbial association. Oregano essential oil delayed 
glucose and lactate consumption, both indicators of meat spoilage aerobically as 
well as under 40% CO2/30% N2/30% O2, and 100% CO2. Finally, changes in other 
metabolites such as formic acid were also observed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1605(02)00177-0
PMID: 12382683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Pediatr Dermatol. 2002 Sep-Oct;19(5):412-4. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1470.2002.00116.x.

Autosomal recessive form of congenital cutis laxa: more than the clinical 
appearance.

Andiran N(1), Sarikayalar F, Saraçlar M, Cağlar M.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics, Hacettepe University, Ihsan Dogramaci Childrens 
Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. nandiran@hotmail.com

Congenital cutis laxa is an uncommon disorder of generalized elastolysis. The 
clinical picture is characterized by inelastic, loose, hanging skin that gives 
the appearance of premature aging. The disease is inherited most commonly in a 
severe autosomal recessive form, or as a relatively benign, autosomal dominant 
form. There is often systemic organ involvement in patients with the autosomal 
recessive form. Cardiopulmonary abnormalities are common and mainly determine 
the prognosis and life expectancy. Pulmonary emphysema, cor pulmonale, and 
right-sided heart failure generally caused by pulmonary disease are often seen 
in infancy. Various cardiovascular abnormalities including aortic aneurysm, 
pulmonary artery multiple branch stenosis have been reported in patients with 
this form of congenital cutis laxa. We report a 10-month-old boy with the 
autosomal recessive form of congenital cutis laxa who had pulmonary valve 
stenosis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of this 
association to be reported in the English language literature. We also emphasize 
the systemic complications that may be associated with congenital cutis laxa.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1470.2002.00116.x
PMID: 12383097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 2002 Oct;27(5):387-91. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.2002.00601.x.

Bioplastique medialization therapy improves the quality of life in terminally 
ill patients with vocal cord palsy.

Alves CB(1), Loughran S, MacGregor FB, Dey JI, Bowie LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, UK. 
crawfordbalves@talk21.com

Unilateral vocal cord palsy can result in a weak breathy voice and an inability 
to communicate effectively. This study was designed to assess prospectively the 
efficacy of polymethylsiloxane elastomer (Bioplastique) medialization injection 
therapy in patients with vocal cord palsy and terminal disease with particular 
regard to quality of life issues. Patients with unilateral vocal cord palsy 
secondary to malignant disease were offered Bioplastique injection. A digital 
voice recording was taken preoperatively and at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months 
postoperatively. Maximum phonation time (MPT) was recorded at the same 
intervals, and patients completed two questionnaires: the voice handicap index 
(VHI) and SF 36 general health questionnaire. Sixteen patients were entered into 
the study. There was a significant improvement in voice score, MPT, VHI and in 
three subgroups of the SF 36 at 1 month postoperatively, and the improvement was 
maintained in the small number who survived to 3 and 6 months. Bioplastique 
injection for unilateral vocal cord palsy produces a significant improvement in 
quality of life in addition to measured voice quality in patients with terminal 
disease. It should be recommended in patients even when the life expectancy is 
short.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.2002.00601.x
PMID: 12383303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Gene. 2002 Aug 21;296(1-2):161-9. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)00854-5.

The Burkholderia pseudomallei oxyR gene: expression analysis and mutant 
characterization.

Loprasert S(1), Sallabhan R, Whangsuk W, Mongkolsuk S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Chulabhorn Research Institute, Lak Si, Bangkok 
10210, Thailand. suvit@tubtim.cri.or.th

Burkholderia pseudomallei (Bp) is the causative agent of the life-threatening 
melioidosis in humans. The global transcription factor oxyR gene was isolated 
and characterized. It is located between recG, encoding a putative DNA helicase, 
and katG, encoding a putative catalase-peroxidase. oxyR is expressed as a 
monocistronic 1 kb mRNA and is induced by oxidative stress compounds. Northern, 
primer extension, and transcription reporter fusion analyses showed that oxyR 
mRNA is induced by 0.2 mM menadione, 2 mM paraquat, and 10 mM H(2)O(2). Two 
knockout mutants of oxyR were constructed, by single- and double-crossover 
recombination, and found to be hypersensitive to H(2)O(2) and paraquat. Bp 
lacking OxyR exhibited autoaggregation when cultured in liquid broth and an 
increased ability to form biofilms in minimal medium, but not in Luria-Bertani 
broth. The oxyR mutants also have a decreased level of extracellular protease 
activity. The altered phenotypes of oxyR deficient mutants were complemented 
when a copy of oxyR was transposed into the mutant chromosomes on the mini-Tn5 
transposon.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)00854-5
PMID: 12383513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2002 Oct 2;40(7):1259-66. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(02)02140-x.

Cost/utility ratio in chronic heart failure: comparison between heart failure 
management program delivered by day-hospital and usual care.

Capomolla S(1), Febo O, Ceresa M, Caporotondi A, Guazzotti G, La Rovere M, 
Ferrari M, Lenta F, Baldin S, Vaccarini C, Gnemmi M, Pinna G, Maestri R, Abelli 
P, Verdirosi S, Cobelli F.

