Author information:
(1)Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri, IRCCS, Dipartimento di Cardiologia, Istituto 
Scientifico di Montescano, Montescano, Pavia, Italy. scapomolla@fsm.it

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003 May 21;41(10):1850; author reply 1850-1.

OBJECTIVE: This study compared the effectiveness and cost/utility ratio between 
a heart failure (HF) management program delivered by day-hospital (DH) and usual 
care in chronic heart failure (CHF) outpatients.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies showed that about 50% of readmissions for CHF can 
be prevented by a multidisciplinary approach. However, the performance, 
effectiveness, and cost/utility ratio of a process of HF outpatient management 
related to evidence-based medicine have not been considered.
METHODS: A total of 234 prospective patients discharged by a HF Unit were 
randomized to two management strategies: 122 patients to usual community care 
and 112 patients to a HF management program delivered by the DH. Management 
(rate of readmissions, therapeutic interventions), functional parameters (New 
York Heart Association [NYHA] functional class, left ventricular diameters, and 
ejection fraction, deceleration time of early diastolic mitral flow, peak oxygen 
uptake, and mitral regurgitation) and hard outcomes (cardiac death and urgent 
cardiac transplantation) were evaluated. The cost/utility ratios of the two 
strategies were compared.
RESULTS: After 12 +/- 3 months of follow-up, the individual rate access in DH 
was 5.5 +/- 3.8 days. The DH subjects were readmitted to the hospital less 
frequently than were the usual-care group patients (13 vs. 78, p < 0.00001). 
Patients allocated to usual-care management showed heterogeneous changes in NYHA 
functional class (13% improved and 16% worsened p = NS); In contrast, the DH 
group showed significant changes in NYHA functional class (23% improved and 11% 
worsened, p < 0.009). Hard cardiac events in the one-year follow-up occurred in 
25/234 (10.6%) patients; cardiac death occurred in 21/122 (17.2%) of the 
community group and in 3/112 (2.7%) in the DH group (p < 0.0007). One DH patient 
underwent urgent transplantation. Comparison of the two managerial models by Cox 
regression analysis showed that DH management significantly protected against 
the appearance of hard events (relative risk [RR] 0.17; confidence interval [CI] 
0.06 to 0.66). The cost/utility ratio of the two management strategies was 
similar (usual care $2,409 vs. DH $2,244). The incremental analysis revealed a 
cost savings of $1,068 for each quality-adjusted life year gained. The 
cost/utility ratio for the integration of DH management of CHF was $19,462 (CI 
$13,904 to $34,048).
CONCLUSIONS: A heart failure outpatient management program delivered by a DH can 
reduce mortality and morbidity of CHF patients. This management strategy is 
cost-effective and has an equitable value from a societal point of view.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(02)02140-x
PMID: 12383573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Clin Epidemiol. 2002 Aug;55(8):741-7. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00413-4.

The influence of economic development on the association between education and 
the risk of acute myocardial infarction and stroke.

Chang CL(1), Marmot MG, Farley TM, Poulter NR.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Studies Unit, Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Imperial 
College of Science, Technology and Medicine, St. Mary's Campus, London W2 1PG, 
UK.

Rates of myocardial infarction and stroke increase as countries "develop." These 
disorders emerge among higher socio-economic groups, but once "developed," most 
events occur in lower socio-economic groups. We evaluated the association 
between education as a measure of socio-economic status and risk of acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI) and stroke in regions at various stages of 
development and between stroke risk and life expectancy. The study comprised 
2,478 cases of AMI or stroke and 6,819 controls among women aged 19-49, from 
Africa, Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe. Compared to those with high 
educational attainment, stroke risk was reduced among less educated women in 
Africa, but was significantly higher in the other three regions. Low education 
was associated with increased risk of AMI in Eastern Europe but not in the other 
three regions combined. Educationally related stroke risk was positively 
correlated with national life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00413-4
PMID: 12384187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Clin Epidemiol. 2002 Aug;55(8):791-9. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00448-1.

The EQ-5D and the Health Utilities Index for permanent sequelae after 
meningitis: a head-to-head comparison.

Oostenbrink R(1), A Moll HA, Essink-Bot ML.

Author information:
(1)Sophia Children's Hospital Rotterdam, Room Sp 1545, Dr Molewaterplein 60, The 
Netherlands. oostenbrink@alkg.azr.nl

Framed in a study on the cost-effectiveness of different diagnostic strategies 
regarding children with meningeal signs, this study evaluated the quality 
weights for permanent sequelae after childhood bacterial meningitis obtained 
with two different classification instruments: the EQ-5D, and Health Utilities 
Index (HUI). A panel of 28 pediatricians classified seven standardized 
descriptions of patients with permanent sequelae after bacterial meningitis 
according to the EQ-5D and HUI classification system. Quality weights for each 
classification were calculated using the EQ-5D and HUI standard scoring 
algorithms. HUI Mark 3 quality weights were substantially lower than the EQ-5D 
for all descriptions (mean difference 0.11; 95% CI: 0.08-0.14). Mean Kendall W 
for agreement of the ranking order between EQ-5D and HUI Mark 3 was 0.90. The 
EQ-5D and HUI resulted in different absolute quality weights, in particular for 
states associated with "deafness" and "mental retardation." Due to their 
performance differences, the HUI may be preferable to EQ-5D in studies focussed 
on "sensation" (hearing, vision, speech) or "cognition." These differences 
proved not to be relevant in the present cost-utility study of diagnostic 
strategies to rule out bacterial meningitis, as such consequences were at the 
distal end of the decision tree. This may be different in a cost-utility 
analysis of therapeutic strategies. Hence, sensitivity analysis to quality 
weights is recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00448-1
PMID: 12384194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Gene. 2002 Sep 4;297(1-2):11-9. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)00888-0.

Characterization of a stress-responsive operon in the cyanobacterium 
Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803.

Singh AK(1), Sherman LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, 1392 Lilly Hall of Life 
Sciences, West Lafayette, IN 47907-1392, USA.

We previously identified a gene, slr0374, in the unicellular cyanobacterium, 
Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803, that was highly expressed under 
iron-deficient conditions [J. Bacteriol. 182 (2000) 3536]. The gene product 
contains an AAA domain, a putative leucine zipper and a phosphorylation site and 
is part of an operon (with slr0373 and slr0376) that is responsive to various 
environmental stresses. Primer extension mapping and transcript analysis in 
insertion mutants showed that all transcripts from this operon originated 
upstream of slr0373 at four contiguous transcription start sites before being 
processed into individual transcripts. Both primary and processed transcripts 
were quite stable. The start sites were sensitive to changes in sulfur, light 
and redox agent, as well as iron. The structural and regulatory elements of this 
operon were highly conserved in phycobilisome-containing cyanobacteria that have 
been sequenced to date. Slr0374 and Slr0376 show homology with Ycf46 and Ycf35, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)00888-0
PMID: 12384281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3095-100. doi: 10.1182/blood-2001-12-0297.

Flow cytometric disease monitoring in multiple myeloma: the relationship between 
normal and neoplastic plasma cells predicts outcome after transplantation.

Rawstron AC(1), Davies FE, DasGupta R, Ashcroft AJ, Patmore R, Drayson MT, Owen 
RG, Jack AS, Child JA, Morgan GJ.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Haematology and Oncology, Algernon Firth Building, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS1 3EX, UK. andy.rawstron@hmds.org.uk

Conventional monitoring strategies for myeloma are not sufficiently sensitive to 
identify patients likely to benefit from further therapy immediately after 
transplantation. We have used a sensitive flow cytometry assay that quantitates 
normal and neoplastic plasma cells to monitor the bone marrow of 45 patients 
undergoing high-dose chemotherapy. Neoplastic plasma cells were detectable at 3 
months after transplantation in 42% of patients. Once detected, neoplastic cell 
levels increased steadily until clinical progression: these patients had a 
significantly shorter progression-free survival (PFS) (median, 20 months) than 
those with no detectable disease (median, longer than 35 months; P =.003). 
Neoplastic plasma cells were detectable in 27% (9 of 33) of 
immunofixation-negative complete-remission patients. These patients had a 
significantly shorter PFS than immunofixation-negative patients with no 
detectable neoplastic plasma cells (P =.04). Normal plasma cells were present in 
89% of patients immediately after transplantation, but were not sustained in 
most cases. Patients with only normal phenotype plasma cells present at 3 months 
after transplantation and also at second assessment had a low risk of disease 
progression. Patients with neoplastic plasma cells present at 3 months after 
transplantation, or with only normal plasma cells present at first assessment 
and only neoplastic plasma cells at second assessment, had a significantly 
higher risk of early disease progression (P <.0001) with a 5-year survival of 
54% for the high-risk group, compared with 100% in the low-risk group (P =.036). 
Analysis of normal and neoplastic plasma cell levels is more sensitive than 
immunofixation and can identify which patients may benefit from additional 
treatment strategies at an early stage after transplantation.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2001-12-0297
PMID: 12384404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3115-20. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0972.

Phase 2 study of a combined immunochemotherapy using rituximab and fludarabine 
in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Schulz H(1), Klein SK, Rehwald U, Reiser M, Hinke A, Knauf WU, Aulitzky WE, 
Hensel M, Herold M, Huhn D, Hallek M, Diehl V, Engert A; German CLL Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Clinic I of Internal Medicine, University of Cologne, Cologne 50924, Germany.

This multicenter phase 2 trial investigated safety and efficacy of a new 
immunochemotherapeutic regimen combining rituximab (R) and fludarabine (F) in 
patients with fludarabine- and anthracycline-naive chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL). The rationale for using R + F includes single-agent efficacy of both 
drugs, in vitro synergism of R and F, and no apparent overlapping toxicity. Of 
31 eligible patients with B-CLL enrolled, 20 were previously untreated and 11 
relapsed. Treatment consisted of fludarabine administered at standard doses (25 
mg/m(2)/d; days 1-5, 29-33, 57-61, and 85-89) and rituximab (375 mg/m(2)/d) 
given on days 57, 85, 113, and 151. Side effects such as fever, chills, and 
exanthema were generally mild (National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity 
Criteria [NCI-CTC] grade 1/2 in 48% and grade 3 and/or 4 in 3% of patients). 
Fever and chills were mainly associated with the first rituximab infusion. 
Hematologic toxicity included neutropenia (grade 1 and/or 2 in 26%, grade 3 
and/or 4 in 42%) and thrombocytopenia (grade 1 and/or 2 in 19%, grade 3 and/or 4 
in 9%). One patient died of cerebral bleeding during prolonged thrombocytopenia 
after the second cycle of fludarabine. There were a total of 32 infections in 16 
patients, none of which was fatal. The overall response rate (complete remission 
[CR] and partial remission [PR]) was 87% (27 of 31 evaluable patients). In 20 
previously untreated patients, 17 (85%) responded. Ten of 31 patients achieved 
CR (5 of 20 untreated; 5 of 11 pretreated; 9 of 21 Binet stage B, 1 of 10 Binet 
stage C). The median duration of response was 75 weeks. We conclude that the 
combination of rituximab and fludarabine is feasible and effective in patients 
with B-CLL.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0972
PMID: 12384407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3121-7. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0701.

Nonmyeloablative transplantation with or without alemtuzumab: comparison between 
2 prospective studies in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders.

Pérez-Simón JA(1), Kottaridis PD, Martino R, Craddock C, Caballero D, Chopra R, 
García-Conde J, Milligan DW, Schey S, Urbano-Ispizua A, Parker A, Leon A, Yong 
K, Sureda A, Hunter A, Sierra J, Goldstone AH, Linch DC, San Miguel JF, 
Mackinnon S; Spanish and United Kingdom Collaborative Groups for 
Nonmyeloablative Transplantation.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital Universitairo de Salamanca, Paseo de San 
Vicente s/n, 37007 Salamanca, Spain. pesimo@usal.es

Although nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen transplantations (NMTs) induce 
engraftment of allogeneic stem cells with a low spectrum of toxicity, 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains a significant cause of morbidity and 
mortality. In vivo T-cell depletion, using alemtuzumab, has been shown to reduce 
the incidence of GVHD. However, this type of maneuver, although reducing GVHD, 
may have an adverse impact on disease response, because NMTs exhibit their 
antitumor activity by relying on a graft-versus-malignancy effect. To explore 
the efficacy of alemtuzumab compared with methotrexate (MTX) for GVHD 
prophylaxis, we have compared the results in 129 recipients of a sibling NMT 
enrolled in 2 prospective studies for chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. 
Both NMTs were based on the same combination of fludarabine and melphalan, but 
the United Kingdom regimen (group A) used cyclosporin A plus alemtuzumab, 
whereas the Spanish regimen (group B) used cyclosporin A plus MTX for GVHD 
prophylaxis. Patients receiving alemtuzumab had a higher incidence of 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation (85% versus 24%, P <.001) and a significantly 
lower incidence of acute GVHD (21.7% versus 45.1%, P =.006) and chronic GVHD (5% 
versus 66.7%, P <.001). Twenty-one percent of patients in group A and 67.5% in 
group B had complete or partial responses 3 months after transplantation (P 
<.001). Eighteen patients in group A received donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs) 
to achieve disease control. At last follow-up there was no difference in disease 
status between the groups with 71% versus 67.5% (P =.43) of patients showing 
complete or partial responses in groups A and B, respectively. No significant 
differences were observed in event-free or overall survival between the 2 
groups. In conclusion, alemtuzumab significantly reduced GVHD but its use was 
associated with a higher incidence of CMV reactivation. Patients receiving 
alemtuzumab often required DLIs to achieve similar tumor control but the 
incidence of GVHD was not significantly increased after DLI.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0701
PMID: 12384408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3128-34. doi: 10.1182/blood.V100.9.3128.

Chronic graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic blood stem cell 
transplantation: long-term results of a randomized study.

Mohty M(1), Kuentz M, Michallet M, Bourhis JH, Milpied N, Sutton L, Jouet JP, 
Attal M, Bordigoni P, Cahn JY, Boiron JM, Blaise D; Société Française de Greffe 
de Moelle et de Thérapie Cellulaire (SFGM-TC).

Author information:
(1)Transplantation and Cellular Therapy Unit, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, 232 
Boulevard Sainte Marguerite, 132273 Marseille Cedex 09, France.

The use of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) is rapidly growing in the 
allogeneic transplantation setting as an alternative to bone marrow (BM). We 
previously reported a higher incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease 
(cGVHD) associated with allogeneic PBSC transplantation in a randomized trial. 
In this follow-up report, we analyzed the evolution of cGVHD in the patients (n 
= 101) enrolled on this study. At a median follow-up of 45 months (range, 31-57 
months), we found that the 3-year cumulative incidence of cGVHD was 65% (95% 
confidence interval [CI] 51%-78%) in the PBSC group and 36% (95% CI 23%-49%) in 
the BM group (P =.004). We also found that extensive cGVHD was more frequent in 
the PBSC group (44% [95% CI 30%-58%] vs 17% [95% CI 7%-27%]; P =.004). The 
prevalence of cGVHD was always higher in the PBSC arm. Ocular involvement was 
more frequent in PBSC recipients (P =.02). Cutaneous and liver involvement was 
similar among BM and PBSC recipients. Chronic GVHD required multiple courses of 
immunosuppressive therapy in addition to cyclosporine and corticosteroids during 
longer periods (P =.03). Altogether, this translated into longer periods of 
hospitalization after transplantation in the PBSC group (P =.04). Finally, we 
also confirm that cGVHD after PBSC transplantation is associated with an 
antileukemic effect that is at least as potent as after BM. However, to date, 
this has not translated into a survival difference, possibly due to the 
early-stage leukemic status of these patients or to the relatively small size of 
the study population.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.V100.9.3128
PMID: 12384409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3135-40. doi: 10.1182/blood.V100.9.3135.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for de novo erythroleukemia: a study of 
the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT).

Fouillard L(1), Labopin M, Gorin NC, Polge E, Prentice HG, Meloni G, Reiffers J, 
Pigneux A, Willemze R, Schattenberg A, Sica S, Lagrange M, Fenneteau O, Perot C, 
Frassoni F; Acute Leukemia Working Party of the EBMT.

Author information:
(1)Centre International Greffe de Moelle (EBMT), Centre de Recherche Claude 
Bernard sur la Thérapie Cellulaire, Université Pierre et Marie Curie Paris VI, 
75571 Paris Cedex 12, France. fouillar@ext.jussieu.fr

De novo erythroleukemia (EL) is a rare disease. Reported median survival are 
poor and vary from 4 to 14 months. The value of hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) for EL is unknown. This EBMT registry study reports on 
the largest series of patients with EL treated with HSCT in first complete 
remission-103 autologous and 104 HLA identical sibling allogeneic HSCT. Outcome 
and identification of prognostic factors for each type of transplantation were 
evaluated. For autologous HSCT, outcome at 5 years showed a leukemia-free 
survival (LFS) of 26% +/- 5%, a relapse incidence (RI) of 70% +/- 6%, and a 
transplant-related mortality (TRM) of 13% +/- 4%. By multivariate analysis, the 
only prognostic factor was age. For allogeneic HSCT, outcome at 5 years showed 
an LFS of 57% +/- 5%, an RI of 21% +/- 5%, and a TRM of 27% +/- 5%. By 
multivariate analysis, prognostic factors were graft-versus-host disease and 
age. This study represents the largest series of de novo EL treated with HSCT 
and shows that allogeneic HSCT is by far the most effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.V100.9.3135
PMID: 12384410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Blood. 2002 Nov 1;100(9):3344-51. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-01-0084.

Prognostic value of enhanced bone marrow angiogenesis in early B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia.

Molica S(1), Vacca A, Ribatti D, Cuneo A, Cavazzini F, Levato D, Vitelli G, 
Tucci L, Roccaro AM, Dammacco F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese-Ciaccio, 
Viale Pio X, I-88100 Catanzaro, Italy. smolica@libero.it

Because tumor progression is angiogenesis-dependent, angiogenesis density was 
investigated by immunohistochemistry and computed image analysis in bone marrow 
(BM) biopsies of 45 newly diagnosed patients with Binet stage A B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (BCLL) and correlated to upstaging and progression-free 
survival during a 40-month follow-up period. Their microvessel areas and counts 
were significantly higher than those of patients with anemia due to iron or 
vitamin B(12) deficiencies. A cutoff value of 0.90 mm(2) x 10(-2) or greater of 
the microvessel area identified patients with earlier upstaging and shorter 
progression-free survival. When the cutoff was applied to the Rai 
subclassification, both Rai 0 and Rai I-II patients who upstaged and shortened 
the progression-free survival were classified correctly. Information of this 
type was not given by the microvessel counts. The cutoff did not correlate with 
other predictors representative of tumor mass or disease progression. The 
microvessel area correlated with the expression of angiogenic vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by tumor tissue, and serum levels of VEGF were 
found to be of prognostic value. A causal relationship between risk of 
progression and BM angiogenesis in BCLL is suggested. A risk stratification 
inside Rai is proposed. The prognostic usefulness of BM angiogenesis in patients 
with BCLL is envisaged.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-01-0084
PMID: 12384436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Nov 1;35(9):1135. doi: 10.1086/342325.

Reply to Dr. Charlebois et Al. (Clin infect dis 2002; 34:425-33).

Daly P, Bryce EA, Buxton J.

Comment on
    Clin Infect Dis. 2002 Feb 15;34(4):425-33.

DOI: 10.1086/342325
PMID: 12384849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Urology. 2002 Oct;60(4):628-33. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)01832-0.

United States radiation oncologists' and urologists' opinions about screening 
and treatment of prostate cancer vary by region.

McNaughton Collins M(1), Barry MJ, Zietman A, Albertsen PC, Talcott JA, Walker 
Corkery E, Elliott DB, Fowler FJ Jr.

Author information:
(1)Medical Practices Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2003 Aug;170(2 Pt 1):696.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether physicians' views on prostate cancer screening 
and treatment vary by geographic region in the United States.
METHODS: A mail survey was sent in 1998 to a random sample of physicians in the 
United States who were listed as radiation oncologists (response rate 76%, n = 
559) and urologists (response rate 64%, n = 504) in the American Medical 
Association Registry of Physicians and practicing at least 20 hr/wk.
RESULTS: Radiation oncologists and urologists in Florida were more likely to 
report recommending routine prostate-specific antigen testing for men aged 75 
years and older than were their colleagues in other regions of the United 
States. The Florida physicians were more likely to report treating at least 20% 
of their patients with brachytherapy and to report believing that brachytherapy 
has survival value for men with a less than 10-year life expectancy. No regional 
differences were found in the radiation oncologists' and urologists' beliefs 
about the survival value of radical prostatectomy; however, for men with a less 
than 10-year life expectancy, Florida urologists had more confidence in the 
survival benefit of external beam radiotherapy than urologists in other regions 
(P = 0.04). Radiation oncologists in Florida reported higher rates of 
recommending early androgen deprivation for a rising PSA after both radiotherapy 
and surgery (P = 0.008 and P = 0.001, respectively) than did their colleagues in 
other regions.
CONCLUSIONS: Florida radiation oncologists and urologists reported beliefs and 
practices that differed from their colleagues in other regions of the United 
States. Whether the distinctive style of prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment 
in Florida results in improved outcomes has yet to be proved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)01832-0
PMID: 12385923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2002 Oct;43(5):609-15.

Selective management of high risk patients with an ascending aortic dilatation 
during aortic valve replacement.

Ogus NT(1), Ciçek S, Isik O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Maltepe University Faculty of Medicine, 
Istanbul, Turkey. togus@superonline.com

Comment in
    J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2003 Apr;44(2):279.

BACKGROUND: The ascending aortic dilatation secondary to aortic valve disease 
may be a risk for rupture or dissection unless it is not corrected with a graft 
replacement during valve surgery. This additional procedure requires prolonged 
operation time that can be harmful for the critical patient. External 
reinforcement of diseased aorta is an old but simple method with debated long 
term results, providing brief duration and lower complication rate of the 
aneurysm operation for critically ill patients whose life expectancy is poor.
METHODS: Twenty-two patients underwent aortic valve replacement and external 
aortic wrapping procedure in our clinic. All of the patients had severe 
associated risk factors to complicate the classical aortic graft replacement 
procedure. In this prospective clinical study, the follow-up period of the 
patients is 79.91 patient-years.
RESULTS: There was no operative mortality. The average hospital stay was 
8.6+/-2.6 days. There was no late death or cardiac morbidity. All of the 
patients were in NYHA Class 1 at postoperative 3rd month and thereafter. In CT 
scans the mean preoperative ascending aortic diameter was 5.12+/-0.38 cm while 
the mean diameter at 3rd month postoperatively was 3.19+/-0.25 cm. The reduction 
in diameter showed a significant difference (p<0.0001). The time related changes 
in luminal diameters showed some enlargement within the first year of the 
operation (p=0.03) that remained the same thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: The early results and 4 years follow-up suggest that the technique 
can be regarded as safe and effective in selected high risk patients.

PMID: 12386571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Strahlenther Onkol. 2002 Oct;178(10):556-61. doi: 10.1007/s00066-002-0980-1.

A comparison of two different radiation schedules for metastatic spinal cord 
compression considering a new prognostic factor.

Rades D(1), Karstens JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. 
Rades.Dirk@gmx.net

BACKGROUND: Patients with metastatic spinal cord compression are often presented 
for emergency radiotherapy. The optimum radiotherapeutic regimen is still 
debated, studies comparing different radiation schedules on therapeutic outcome 
are scarce. This analysis compares the effect of two schedules on motor function 
considering three relevant prognostic factors (type of primary tumor, 
pre-treatment ambulatory status, time of developing motor deficits before 
radiotherapy).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective analysis, two radiation schedules, 
30 Gy/10 fractions (n=78) and 37.5 Gy/15 fractions (n = 75), applied due to 
motor deficits caused by metastatic spinal cord compression, were compared for 
post-treatment functional outcome and ambulatory status. Response and ambulatory 
status were evaluated directly, 3, 6 and 12 months after radiotherapy. For 
functional outcome a multivariate analysis including radiation schedule and the 
relevant prognostic factors was performed.
RESULTS: Between the two radiation schedules no significant difference was 
observed for post-treatment ambulatory rates (p values: 0.450-0.888) and for 
functional outcome (p values: 0.940-0.999). According to the multivariate 
analysis, the strongest predictors for functional outcome were the time of 
developing motor deficits before radiotherapy (p < 0.001) and the pre-treatment 
ambulatory status (p < 0.001), followed by the type of primary tumor (p = 
0.058). For the radiation schedule a significant impact on functional outcome 
was not observed (p = 0.822).
CONCLUSIONS: The two radiation schedules were comparable for functional outcome. 
The less time consuming schedule (30 Gy/10 fractions) can be recommended in 
metastatic spinal cord compression, as life expectancy is markedly reduced in 
the majority of these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-002-0980-1
PMID: 12386787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Theriogenology. 2002 Oct 15;58(7):1409-24. doi:
10.1016/s0093-691x(02)01038-5.

Ultrasound and endocrine evaluation of the ovarian response to PGF2alpha given 
at different stages of the luteal phase in ewes.

Barrett DM(1), Bartlewski PM, Cook SJ, Rawlings NC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Biomedical Sciences. Western College of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ovarian response of ewes to two 
treatments with PGF2alpha using transrectal ovarian ultrasonography and hormone 
measurements. Fifteen milligrams of PGF2alpha was given to six cyclic Western 
White Face (WWF) ewes early in the estrous cycle (Days 4 to 7) and to six late 
in the cycle (Days 10 to 12 after ovulation), and a second treatment was given 9 
days after the first. Ultrasound scanning and blood sampling started 7 days 
prior to the first PGF2alpha treatment and ended 10 days (scanning) or 19 days 
(blood sampling) after the second PGF2alpha treatment, for both groups of ewes. 
Mean ovulation rate (2.6 +/- 0.7) did not differ significantly between the ewes 
first treated early or late in the cycle, or after the first or second 
treatments with PGF2alpha. The time from treatment to ovulation was longer in 
ewes first treated early (4.0 +/- 0.3 days) compared to late (2.8 +/- 0.4 days) 
in the cycle (P < 0.05). Both the number of ovulations (range: 0-7) and time 
from treatment to ovulation (range: 1-9 days) were highly variable. This 
variability appeared to be due to the extension of the life span of ovulating 
follicles that emerged prior to PGF2alpha administration and also ovulation of 
some follicles that emerged after treatment. When results for first and second 
treatments were pooled, the total number of follicles > 5 mm in diameter on the 
day of treatment that failed to ovulate in response to PGF2alpha was higher in 
ewes first treated early (0.8 +/- 0.2/ewe) compared to late (0.3 +/- 0.2/ewe) in 
the cycle (P < 0.05). The proportion of detected luteal structures relative to 
the number of ovulations was lower in ewes first treated early compared to late 
in the cycle (60 and 86%, respectively; P < 0.05). Disruption of ovulatory 
follicle dynamics and normal luteogenesis, and variability in the timing of 
ovulation after PGF2alpha treatments could all contribute to poor or variable 
fertility when prostaglandins are used for estrus synchronization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0093-691x(02)01038-5
PMID: 12387353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Jun;14(3):170-7. doi: 10.1007/BF03324432.

Understanding the physiological and functional consequences of menopause: the 
PROSALMEN study. PROgetto SALute MENopausa.

Bandinelli S(1), Lauretani F, Benvenuti E, Corsi A, De Marco MF, Bartali B, 
Ruotolo G, Miniati B, Macchi C, Russo CR, Guralnik JM, Ferrucci L.

Author information:
(1)INRCA Geriatric Department, Firenze, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Women live longer and are more often affected by disability 
and poor health than men. The mechanism underlying this sex-related 
"mortality-morbidity" paradox is still unclear but it has been suggested that 
the physiological and functional changes occurring during the menopausal 
transition play an important role. The aim of PROSALMEN (PROgetto SALute 
MENopausa: Health in Menopause Project) is to study in great detail how these 
changes affect the integrity and function of the physiologic subsystems that are 
relevant to the maintenance of an active and healthy life-style during the aging 
process.
METHODS: PROSALMEN is a cross-sectional comparison of age-matched pre- and 
post-menopausal women. Thirty post-menopausal women, aged 48-58 years, were 
enrolled in the study together with 30 age-matched pre-menopausal controls. A 
number of clinical, biological and functional parameters were collected 
assessing the integrity and level of function of the physiological subsystems 
that are important for mobility. Furthermore, we collected information on risk 
factors, medical conditions and symptoms that frequently develop or become 
clinically evident after menopause, including the most important elements of the 
classical post-menopausal syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS: This rich dataset will be used to start dissecting the causal 
pathway leading from menopause to damages in the musculoskeletal system and, in 
turn, to reduced physical function. The final goal is to understand how and to 
what extent changes in health behavior and pharmacological treatments in 
addition to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) may counteract these processes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324432
PMID: 12387523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Math Biosci. 2002 Nov-Dec;180:1-21. doi: 10.1016/s0025-5564(02)00122-0.

Daniel Bernoulli's epidemiological model revisited.

Dietz K(1), Heesterbeek JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biometry, University of Tübingen, Westbahnhofstr. 55, 
72070 Tübingen, Germany. klaus.dietz@uni-tuebingen.de

The seminal paper by Daniel Bernoulli published in 1766 is put into a new 
perspective. After a short account of smallpox inoculation and of Bernoulli's 
life, the motivation for that paper and its impact are described. It determines 
the age-specific equilibrium prevalence of immune individuals in an endemic 
potentially lethal infectious disease. The gain in life expectancy after 
elimination of this cause of death can be explicitly expressed in terms of the 
case fatality and the endemic prevalence of susceptibles. D'Alembert developed 
in 1761 an alternative method for dealing with competing risks of death, which 
is also applicable to non-infectious diseases. Bernoulli's formula for the 
endemic prevalence of susceptibles has so far escaped attention. It involves the 
lifetime risk of the infection, the force of infection and the life expectancy 
at birth. A new formula for the basic reproduction number is derived which 
involves the average force of infection, the average case fatality and the life 
expectancy at the time of infection. One can use this estimate to assess the 
gain in life expectancy if only a fraction of the population is immunized.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-5564(02)00122-0
PMID: 12387913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2002 Oct;28(10):1742-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0886-3350(02)01220-8.

Cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery. Method to assess cost-effectiveness 
using registry data.

Kobelt G(1), Lundström M, Stenevi U.

Author information:
(1)Health Dynamics International, London, United Kingdom. 
gisela.kobelt@easynet.fr

To develop a method to estimate the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained with cataract surgery using large patient registries.Four centers in 
Sweden. Five hundred patients scheduled for cataract extraction in 1 eye at 1 of 
4 centers in Sweden during March 1999 were asked to complete the EQ-5D, a 
preference-based quality-of-life instrument, and the Catquest, a 
disease-specific disability measure, before surgery. Multiple regression 
analysis was used to study the correlation between utility and visual acuity 
and/or disability and utility and QALY gain through the intervention estimated. 
Visual acuity and Catquest scores were available for 484 patients. The mean age 
was 76.1 years; the mean logMAR visual acuity was 0.59 in the surgical eye and 
0.26 in the other eye. The mean Catquest disability score was 13.79 and the mean 
utility, 0.74. Utilities correlated significantly with visual acuity and 
disability scores, and the correlations remained significant when both were 
included in a regression model, indicating that the 2 measure different 
concepts. The hypothetical cost per QALY gained (discounted at 3%) was estimated 
at 45000 SKr (4500 US dollars) using the Swedish Cataract Registry. The results 
indicate that visual acuity and visual disability significantly affect utilities 
controlled for age and ophthalmic comorbidity. It is thus possible to use data 
on visual acuity and disability in large registries to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery and to compare the cost per QALY gained 
with other health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0886-3350(02)01220-8
PMID: 12388022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2002 Nov;56(11):843-50. doi: 
10.1136/jech.56.11.843.

Measuring the health burden of chronic disease and injury using health adjusted 
life expectancy and the Health Utilities Index.

Manuel DG(1), Schultz SE, Kopec JA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Canada. 
d.manuel@utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the burden of illness from chronic disease and injury 
using a population based health survey, which contains both measures of chronic 
disease and a utility based health related quality of life (HRQOL) measure.
DESIGN: An adapted Sullivan method was used to calculate cause deleted health 
adjusted life expectancies for chronic conditions.
SETTING: Ontario, Canada, 1996/97.
SUBJECTS: The 1996/97 Ontario Health Survey (n=35 527) was used to estimate the 
prevalence of chronic conditions. A cause deleted approach was used to estimate 
the impact of these conditions on the Health Utilities Index (HUI). Cause 
deleted probabilities of dying were derived with the cause eliminated life table 
technique and death data from vital statistics for Ontario 1996/97 (n=156 610).
RESULTS: Eliminating cardiovascular disease and cancer will cause an "expansion 
of morbidity", while eliminating mental conditions and musculosketal disorders 
will result in a "contraction of morbidity". The HUI score varies depending on 
chronic condition, age, and sex-most of which were assumed not to vary in 
previous summary measures of population health.
CONCLUSIONS: Health adjusted life expectancy estimated for chronic conditions 
using a utility based measure of health related quality of life from population 
health surveys addresses several limitations of previous studies that estimate 
the burden of disease using either a categorical measure of disability or expert 
opinion and related epidemiological evidence.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.56.11.843
PMCID: PMC1732044
PMID: 12388577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Lakartidningen. 2002 Sep 19;99(38):3706.

[Smoking cessation--the best treatment in the world].

[Article in Swedish]

Gilljam H(1).

Author information:
(1)Centrum för tobaksprevention, Samhällsmedicin, Stockholms läns landsting. 
hans.gilljam@smd.sll.se

PMID: 12389254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Pediatr Transplant. 2002 Oct;6(5):378-87. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-3046.2002.01082.x.

History of pediatric liver transplantation. Where are we coming from? Where do 
we stand?

Otte JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery and Liver Transplantation, Université 
Catholique de Louvain, Cliniques Saint-Luc, Brussels, Belgium. 
otte@chex.ucl.ac.be

The history of pediatric liver transplantation cannot be dissociated from one 
man, Thomas E. Starzl, whose pioneer efforts contributed more than anyone else 
to what has become a routinely successful clinical procedure. During the 
pre-cyclosporine era, the pediatric experience was confined nearly exclusively 
in Denver: first attempt in 1963, first success with survival beyond one year in 
1967, cumulative experience with 84 pediatric cases in the pre-cyclosporine era 
(1967-1979) with a 2-year patient survival rate of 30%. The stampede for the 
development of other liver transplant centers came with the introduction of 
cyclosporine in the early eighties. Besides Pittsburgh, seven centers (Brussels, 
Cambridge and Hanover in Europe; Boston, Dallas, UCLA, Minneapolis in USA) had 
performed up to 1986 at least 20 pediatric liver transplants each with a 
long-term (>1 year) patient survival rate ranging between 57% and 83%. At the 
moment, a long-term patient survival rate in excess of 90% in elective patients 
-including infants - is commonly obtained in experienced centers. The shortage 
of size matched liver donors which was responsible for a high death rate on the 
cadaveric waiting list stimulated the development or technical innovations based 
on the segmental anatomy of the liver: reduced ('cutdown') liver graft, split 
graft and living liver transplantation. Challenging technical aspects in the 
recipient have been solved in order to reduce the incidence of surgical 
complications like outflow obstruction, arterial and portal thrombosis, and 
biliary problems. The indications of liver transplantation have been refined; 
regarding biliary atresia, which is the most frequent indication, a consensus 
has developed to propose a sequential strategy with a single attempt at 
hepatoportoenterostomy followed, when it fails, by liver transplantation. Some 
contra-indications accepted in the past are not currently valid with better 
understanding of the pathophysiology and/or increased clinical experience; such 
is the case of the hepatopulmonary syndrome. A major progress in preoperative 
management has been achieved through a multidisciplinary approach, particularly 
regarding nutrition and control of portal hypertension-related bleeding and 
ascites. Perioperatively, liver transplantation has derived benefit from the 
expertise of anesthetists managing babies with serious conditions and increased 
experience of the transplant surgeons regarding the knowledge of all the 
technical modalities, good strategy, technical skills and meticulous control of 
bleeding. It is well-recognized that children require more immunosuppression 
than adults. As in adults, the first breakthrough came with the introduction of 
cyclosporine which more than doubled the one-year patient survival rate. The 
next advance during the last decade was afforded by FK 506 - Tacrolimus which 
allows steroid withdrawal with the first year post-transplant in most patients. 
Besides its efficacy in reducing the incidence of rejection and absence of 
cosmetic side-effects, the steroid-sparing effect of Tacrolimus is of utmost 
importance to preserve the growth potential of children. The use of OKT-3 both 
for induction and treatment of rejection has been abandoned nearly universally 
because its use, cumulated with other immunosuppressants, resulted in a high 
incidence of lymphoproliferative disorder. In contrast, anti-IL2-receptor 
monoclonal antibodies, will most likely gain an increasing place in induction, 
with the availability of chimeric or humanized preparations. The side-effects of 
immunosuppression can endanger both the quality of life and the life expectancy; 
they are a special source of concern in pediatric recipients whose survival can 
be expected to be more than a few decades. Children would benefit most from the 
development of a marker able to identify the patients who have developed graft 
acceptance, allowing complete wearing of immunosuppression. Also they would 
benefit most from research protocols of tolerance induction. Since the vast 
majority of liver-transplanted children will have a reasonably normal life 
expectancy, the focus should be switched to their long-term rehabilitation and 
the assessment of their quality of life when they reach adulthood.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3046.2002.01082.x
PMID: 12390423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2002 Nov;87(3):F193-201. doi: 
10.1136/fn.87.3.f193.

Association between breast feeding and growth: the Boyd-Orr cohort study.

Martin RM(1), Smith GD, Mangtani P, Frankel S, Gunnell D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 
Whiteladies Road, UK. richard.martin@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association of breast feeding with height and body 
mass index in childhood and adulthood.
DESIGN: Historical cohort study, based on long term follow up of the Carnegie 
(Boyd-Orr) survey of diet and health in pre-war Britain (1937-1939).
SETTING: Sixteen urban and rural districts in Britain.
SUBJECTS: A total of 4999 children from 1352 families were surveyed in 
1937-1939. Information on infant feeding and childhood anthropometry was 
available for 2995 subjects.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mean differences in childhood and adult anthropometry 
between breast and bottle fed subjects.
RESULTS: Breast feeding was associated with the survey district, greater 
household income, and food expenditure, but not with number of children in the 
household, birth order, or social class. In childhood, breast fed subjects were 
significantly taller than bottle fed subjects after controlling for 
socioeconomic variables. The mean height difference among boys was 0.20 standard 
deviation (SD) (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.32), and among girls it 
was 0.14 SD (95% CI 0.02 to 0.27). Leg length, but not trunk length, was the 
component of height associated with breast feeding. In males, breast feeding was 
associated with greater adult height (difference: 0.34 SD, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.55); 
of the two components of height, leg length (0.26 SD, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.50) was 
more strongly related to breast feeding than trunk length (0.16 SD, 95% CI -0.04 
to 0.35). Height and leg length differences were in the same direction but 
smaller among adult females. There was no association between breast feeding and 
body mass index in childhood or adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with bottle fed infants, infants breast fed in the 1920s 
and 1930s were taller in childhood and adulthood. As stature is associated with 
health and life expectancy, the possible long term impact of infant feeding on 
adult mortality patterns merits further investigation.

DOI: 10.1136/fn.87.3.f193
PMCID: PMC1721475
PMID: 12390990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Mol Cell Biol. 2002 Nov;22(22):8056-66. doi:
10.1128/MCB.22.22.8056-8066.2002.

High osmolarity extends life span in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by a mechanism 
related to calorie restriction.

Kaeberlein M(1), Andalis AA, Fink GR, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Longenity, Inc., Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, USA. matt@longenity.com

Calorie restriction (CR) extends life span in many different organisms, 
including mammals. We describe here a novel pathway that extends the life span 
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mother cells but does not involve a reduction in 
caloric content of the media, i.e., there is growth of yeast cells in the 
presence of a high concentration of external osmolytes. Like CR, this 
longevity-promoting response to high osmolarity requires SIR2, suggesting a 
common mechanism of life span regulation. Genetic and microarray analysis 
indicates that high osmolarity extends the life span by activating Hog1p, 
leading to an increase in the biosynthesis of glycerol from glycolytic 
intermediates. This metabolic shift likely increases NAD levels, thereby 
activating Sir2p and promoting longevity.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.22.22.8056-8066.2002
PMCID: PMC134739
PMID: 12391171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2002 Summer;18(3):461-6.

Preference-based outcome measures in cost-utility analyses. A 20-year overview.

Greenberg D(1), Pliskin JS.

Author information:
(1)Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.

OBJECTIVES: The study evaluated the extent to which quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and healthy-years equivalents (HYEs) were used in cost-utility studies 
over the past 20 years (1981-2000) as well as possible changes in the quality of 
journals reporting cost-utility studies.
METHODS: Cost-utility studies were identified through an electronic search. For 
each study the journal name, date of publication, article's language and 
research origin, and the journal's impact factor were recorded.
RESULTS: The number of published cost-utility studies increased in the last 20 
years but has leveled off in 1997. Most studies were performed in the United 
States and were published in English. All studies except one used QALYs as an 
outcome measure. The mean journal's impact factor has changed slightly over the 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-utility studies would possibly gain more popularity if they 
were used as a vehicle in the decision-making process regarding healthcare 
budgets and were more visible in the scientific literature.

PMID: 12391940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2002 Summer;18(3):467-84.

Healthy-year equivalents in major joint replacement. Can patients provide 
meaningful responses?

Llewellyn-Thomas HA(1), Arshinoff R, Bell M, Williams JI, Naylor CD.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Healthy-years equivalents (HYEs) have been proposed as an evaluative 
measure with advantages over quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The main 
purpose was to assess the feasibility of eliciting HYEs from patients who have 
undergone major joint replacement; a secondary objective was to examine 
relationships with postsurgical health status.
METHODS: Pre- and postsurgical reports of perceived comorbidity and current 
arthritic burden were obtained from 194 patients, using a comorbidity checklist, 
summary scores from the Western Ontario/McMaster Osteoarthritis Questionnaire 
(WOMAC), summary scores derived from six Likert scales, and holistic utility 
scores for the same attributes. After surgery, HYEs for the full across-time 
health profile were also elicited.
RESULTS: All measures of arthritic burden were sensitive to pre/postsurgical 
changes (p = .0001), and comorbidity scores were stable. Two HYE subgroups 
emerged. An HYE-invariant subgroup ascribed full HYEs to their profiles, while 
reporting higher Likert (t = 2.1309; p = .0344) and utility (s = 4.1504; p = 
.0001) scores for their postsurgical health state. An HYE-variant subgroup 
reported HYEs that were weakly but significantly (p < .009) correlated with 
Likert (r = .30), utility (rs = .25), and comorbidity (r = -.26) scores for 
their postsurgical state.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that patients can understand the HYE 
assessment procedures and provide interpretable responses. However, a 
significant proportion reports invariant HYEs that could inflate estimates of 
the overall mean HYE. Further exploration of the HYEs reported by different 
clinical and attitudinal populations is needed before widespread adoption of 
this measure.

PMID: 12391941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2002 Summer;18(3):485-96.

Cost-utility analysis of patient care in children with meningeal signs.

Oostenbrink R(1), Oostenbrink JB, Moons KG, Derksen-Lubsen G, Essink-Bot ML, 
Grobbee DE, Redekop WK, Moll HA.

Author information:
(1)Sophia Children's Hospital and University Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: We designed a model of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions 
applied in children with meningeal signs. Using this model, we determined in a 
cost-utility analysis the consequences for society of different diagnostic 
strategies in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs.
METHODS: Data were used from 360 children (0.1-15 years) visiting the pediatric 
emergency department of the Sophia Children's Hospital Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands (1988-98) with meningeal signs. Model inputs included probabilities 
of meningitis and adverse outcome, QALYs for years lived with long-term 
sequelae, and costs of tests and treatments. Mean outcome measures were costs 
and effects of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in children suspected of 
bacterial meningitis, key determinants of the model outcomes, and evaluation of 
alternative diagnostic strategies and two vaccination programs in an analysis.
RESULTS: The population comprised 99 children with bacterial meningitis (adverse 
outcome in 10), 36 with serious other bacterial infections, and 225 with 
self-limiting diseases. Key determinants were the risk of bacterial meningitis 
or sequelae, costs of treatment, and long-term morbidity. Minimizing lumbar 
punctures and empirical treatments using a diagnostic decision rule, without 
missing a single case of meningitis, was a dominant strategy to actual practice. 
Vaccination strategies of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis 
resulted in our model in incremental cost-utility ratios of 401,965 Euro dollar 
([symbol: see text])/QALY and [symbol: see text]22,635/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs of long-term morbidity of bacterial meningitis largely 
outweigh diagnostic and treatment costs. Modeling interventions in children at 
risk of bacterial meningitis should include long-term consequences in terms of 
costs and QALYs.

PMID: 12391942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2002 Summer;18(3):718-27.

Evaluation of biotechnology-based healthcare products for prioritization in 
Indian context.

Visalakshi S(1), Mohan S.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Science Technology and Development Studies.

Biotechnology (BT) has implications in the diagnosis, treatment/cure and 
prevention of diseases. Based on BT, a wide range of advanced drugs, diagnostics 
and vaccines have become available and are integral part of the health care 
system. Many new imaging and surgical intervention techniques also have great 
positive impact. However, given the limited resources available, especially in 
developing countries, the new techniques must be prioritized for correct policy 
decisions. This paper presents an exercise in prioritizing diagnostics and 
vaccines and comparing them with other high-tech medical care, which often 
receive the attention and favor of decision-makers and health care providers. 
This involves assessing the technologies for their beneficence index. This index 
is derived by accumulating the ratings for seven different factors e.g., need, 
efficacy, additional QALY, ease of integration. The outcome of the exercise 
shows diagnostics and vaccines to be more beneficial than surgical procedures 
and imaging technologies in the Indian context. Such an exercise could form a 
basis for resource allocation and can be favored by incentive structures for 
better social benefits.

PMID: 12391962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

