
912. Exp Physiol. 2002 Jul;87(4):423-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-445x.2002.tb00055.x.

Mortality, cardiac vagal control and physical training--what's the link?

Buch AN(1), Coote JH, Townend JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Birmingham, UK. 
a.n.buch@bham.ac.uk

There is little doubt that regular exercise results in increases in life 
expectancy and protects against adverse cardiac events in both healthy subjects 
and patients with cardiovascular disease. The mechanism of action of physical 
training remains unclear but a variety of evidence points towards an enhancement 
in cardiac vagal activity protecting against lethal arrhythmias. Just how 
physical training increases cardiac vagal activity is an area that is ill 
understood but plausible mechanisms include mediation via angiotensin II or NO. 
Further research is needed in this area. Exercise training is demanding and 
difficult, particularly for patients with cardiac disease. If the mechanism of 
increase in cardiac vagal activity with training can be determined it may be 
possible to use pharmacological approaches to mimic the effects of exercise with 
potentially beneficial effects.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-445x.2002.tb00055.x
PMID: 12392106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Nutr Rev. 2002 Oct;60(10 Pt 1):308-26. doi: 10.1301/002966402320583433.

Roles of vitamins E and C on neurodegenerative diseases and cognitive 
performance.

Martin A(1), Youdim K, Szprengiel A, Shukitt-Hale B, Joseph J.

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on 
Aging,Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

Demographic changes, together with improvements in nutrition, general health, 
and life expectancy, will greatly change the social and economic structures of 
most industrialized and developing countries in the next 50 years. Extended life 
expectancy has increased the number of chronic illnesses and disabilities, 
including cognitive impairments. Inflammatory processes and vascular 
dysfunctions appear to play important roles in the pathogenesis of 
age-associated pathologies including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. A 
large body of evidence shows that both vitamins E and C are important for the 
central nervous system and that a decrease in their concentrations causes 
structural and functional damage to the cells. Several studies reveal a link 
between diets rich in fruits and vegetables containing generous amounts of 
vitamins E and C and lower incidence of certain chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.1301/002966402320583433
PMID: 12392148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4358-66. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-05-1496. Epub
2002  Aug 22.

Invasive aspergillosis in allogeneic stem cell transplant recipients: changes in 
epidemiology and risk factors.

Marr KA(1), Carter RA, Boeckh M, Martin P, Corey L.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Programs in Infectious Diseases and 
Long-term Follow-up, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. kmarr@fhcrc.org

The incidence of postengraftment invasive aspergillosis (IA) in hematopoietic 
stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients increased during the 1990s. We determined 
risks for IA and outcomes among 1682 patients who received HSCTs between January 
1993 and December 1998. Risk factors included host variables (age, underlying 
disease), transplant variables (stem cell source), and late complications (acute 
and chronic graft-versus-host disease [GVHD], receipt of corticosteroids, 
secondary neutropenia, cytomegalovirus [CMV] disease, and respiratory virus 
infection). We identified risk factors associated with IA early after 
transplantation (<or= 40 days) and after engraftment (41-180 days). Older 
patient age was associated with an increased risk during both periods. Chronic 
myelogenous leukemia (CML) in chronic phase was associated with low risk for 
early IA compared with other hematologic malignancies, aplastic anemia, and 
myelodysplastic syndrome. Multiple myeloma was associated with an increased risk 
for postengraftment IA. Use of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related 
(MR) peripheral blood stem cells conferred protection against early IA compared 
with use of MR bone marrow, but use of cord blood increased the risk of IA early 
after transplantation. Factors that increased risks for IA after engraftment 
included receipt of T cell-depleted or CD34-selected stem cell products, receipt 
of corticosteroids, neutropenia, lymphopenia, GVHD, CMV disease, and respiratory 
virus infections. Very late IA (> 6 months after transplantation) was associated 
with chronic GVHD and CMV disease. These results emphasize the postengraftment 
timing of IA; risk factor analyses verify previously recognized risk factors 
(GVHD, receipt of corticosteroids, and neutropenia) and uncover the roles of 
lymphopenia and viral infections in increasing the incidence of postengraftment 
IA in the 1990s.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-05-1496
PMID: 12393425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Blood. 2003 Mar 1;101(5):1715-7. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2441. Epub 2002
Oct  17.

Prognostic value of angiogenesis in solitary bone plasmacytoma.

Kumar S(1), Fonseca R, Dispenzieri A, Lacy MQ, Lust JA, Wellik L, Witzig TE, 
Gertz MA, Kyle RA, Greipp PR, Rajkumar SV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Angiogenesis plays an important role in the biology of multiple myeloma (MM) and 
has prognostic importance in this disease. Solitary plasmacytoma is a localized 
plasma cell malignancy that progresses to MM in a significant number of 
patients. We examined if angiogenesis is increased in solitary plasmacytoma and 
if it can help identify patients likely to progress to myeloma. We studied 
angiogenesis in plasmacytoma biopsy samples and bone marrow biopsies from 25 
patients. High-grade angiogenesis was present in 64% of plasmacytomas. In 
contrast, bone marrow angiogenesis was low in all patients. Patients with 
high-grade angiogenesis in the plasmacytoma sample were more likely to progress 
to myeloma and had a shorter progression-free survival compared with patients 
with low-grade angiogenesis (P =.02). Angiogenesis is increased in solitary 
plasmacytoma and is a significant predictor of progression to myeloma and 
provides further evidence of its importance in the pathogenesis of myeloma.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2441
PMID: 12393501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4298-302. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-02-0632. Epub
2002  Aug 15.

All-trans retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemia: long-term outcome and 
prognostic factor analysis from the North American Intergroup protocol.

Tallman MS(1), Andersen JW, Schiffer CA, Appelbaum FR, Feusner JH, Woods WG, 
Ogden A, Weinstein H, Shepherd L, Willman C, Bloomfield CD, Rowe JM, Wiernik PH.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University, Feinburg School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, 
IL 60611, USA. m-tallman@northwestern.edu

We previously reported a benefit for all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in both 
induction and maintenance therapy in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia 
(APL). To determine the durability of this benefit and identify important 
prognostic factors, long-term follow-up of the North American Intergroup APL 
trial is reported. A total of 350 patients with newly diagnosed APL were 
randomized to either daunorubicin and cytarabine (DA) or ATRA for induction and 
then either ATRA maintenance or observation following consolidation 
chemotherapy. The complete remission (CR) rates were not significantly different 
between the ATRA and DA groups (70% and 73%, respectively). However, the 5-year 
disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were longer with ATRA than 
with DA for induction (69% vs 29% and 69% vs 45%, respectively). Based on both 
induction and maintenance randomizations, the 5-year DFS was 16% for patients 
randomized to DA and observation, 47% for DA and ATRA, 55% for ATRA and 
observation, and 74% for ATRA and ATRA. There was no advantage of either 
induction regimen among any subgroups when CR alone was considered. However, 
female sex, classical M3 morphology (vs the microgranular variant [M3v]), and 
treatment-white blood cell count (WBC) interaction (ATRA/WBC below 2 x 10(9)/L 
[2000/microL] best, DA/WBC above 2 x 10(9)/L worst) were each significantly 
associated with improved DFS (P <.05). Treatment with ATRA, WBC below 2 x 
10(9)/L, and absence of bleeding disorder were each significantly associated 
with improved OS. Age more than 15 years, female sex, and treatment-morphology 
interaction (DA/M3v worst, ATRA best regardless of morphology) were each 
significantly associated with improved DFS based on maintenance randomization. 
The improvement in outcome with ATRA in APL was maintained with long-term 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-02-0632
PMID: 12393590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4310-6. doi: 10.1182/blood-2001-11-0107. Epub
2002  Aug 15.

Chemoresistant or aggressive lymphoma predicts for a poor outcome following 
reduced-intensity allogeneic progenitor cell transplantation: an analysis from 
the Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow 
Transplantation.

Robinson SP(1), Goldstone AH, Mackinnon S, Carella A, Russell N, de Elvira CR, 
Taghipour G, Schmitz N; Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Blood 
and Bone Marrow Transplantation.

Author information:
(1)Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow 
Transplantation, London, United Kingdom. stephen@ifeoma.fsnet.co.uk

We report the outcome of reduced-intensity allogeneic progenitor cell 
transplantation (alloPCT) for 188 patients with lymphoma from the Working Party 
Lymphoma of the European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow Transplantation (EBMT). 
The median age of the patients was 40 years, the median number of prior 
treatment courses was 3, and 48% of patients had undergone a prior autologous 
transplantation. Eighty-four percent of the patients received conditioning with 
fludarabine-based regimens and 10% with the BEAM (BCNU, etoposide, cytosine 
arabinoside, melphalan) protocol. Full donor chimerism was confirmed in 71% of 
100 patients assessed. Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) developed in 37% 
of patients and chronic GVHD in 17%. A disease response to donor leukocyte 
infusion (DLI) was seen in 10 of 14 patients. With a median follow-up of 283 
days, the overall survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 62% and 50%, 
respectively. The 100-day and 1-year transplantation-related mortality (TRM) 
rates were 12.8% and 25.5%, respectively, and were significantly worse for older 
patients. The probability of disease progression at 1 year for patients with 
chemoresistant and chemosensitive disease were 75% and 25%, respectively (P 
=.001). The progression-free survival at 1 year was 46% and was significantly 
better for those with chemosensitive disease, Hodgkin disease (HD), and 
low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Patients with high-grade NHL, mantle cell 
lymphoma, or chemoresistant disease had a poor outcome. Reduced-intensity 
progenitor cell transplantation is associated with a reduced TRM and may control 
advanced HD and low-grade NHL. A longer period of follow-up is required to 
determine the benefit of DLI and the graft-versus-lymphoma effect.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2001-11-0107
PMID: 12393626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4671-5. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-01-0104. Epub
2002  Aug 1.

Expression of MUM1/IRF4 correlates with clinical outcome in patients with B-cell 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Chang CC(1), Lorek J, Sabath DE, Li Y, Chitambar CR, Logan B, Kampalath B, 
Cleveland RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Division of Hematology/Oncology, and Division of 
Biostatistics, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226, USA. 
jeffchang@pol.net

In this study, we evaluated the prognostic significance of multiple 
myeloma-1/interferon regulatory factor-4 (MUM1/IRF4) expression in B-cell 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Our results demonstrated that the absence 
of MUM1/IRF4 expression showed the highest relative risk among the factors 
analyzed in determining the probability for death in patients with B-CLL using 
univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis. Patients without MUM1/IRF4 
expression had significantly worse overall survival than did those with 
MUM1/IRF4 expression (52% cumulative survival, 63 months vs not reached, 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis; P <.03, log-rank test). Patients with MUM1/IRF4 
expression were more likely to have disease at low Rai stage and 
interstitial/nodular marrow involvement. Furthermore, only 1 of 11 patients with 
MUM1/IRF4 expression and interstitial/nodular marrow involvement died during a 
100-month follow-up. Our results suggest that B-CLL with expression of 
MUM1/IRF4, indicative of postgerminal center origin, has a more favorable 
clinical course and that MUM1/IRF4 is an important prognostic marker in B-CLL.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-01-0104
PMID: 12393648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Blood. 2002 Dec 15;100(13):4325-36. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0772. Epub
2002  Aug 1.

Pretreatment cytogenetic abnormalities are predictive of induction success, 
cumulative incidence of relapse, and overall survival in adult patients with de 
novo acute myeloid leukemia: results from Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB 
8461).

Byrd JC(1), Mrózek K, Dodge RK, Carroll AJ, Edwards CG, Arthur DC, Pettenati MJ, 
Patil SR, Rao KW, Watson MS, Koduru PR, Moore JO, Stone RM, Mayer RJ, Feldman 
EJ, Davey FR, Schiffer CA, Larson RA, Bloomfield CD; Cancer and Leukemia Group B 
(CALGB 8461).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Ohio 
State University, Columbus 43210-1240, USA. byrd-3@medctr.osu.edu

Comment in
    Blood. 2023 Feb 16;141(7):800-805.

We analyzed prospectively 1213 adults with de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
to ascertain the prognostic impact of cytogenetic abnormalities on complete 
remission (CR) rate, 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), and 5-year 
overall survival (OS). All patients received similar induction therapy. Median 
follow-up for surviving patients was 8.3 years. Nonprioritized cytogenetics 
distinguished t(8;21) and inv(16)/t(16;16) as conferring a significantly better 
prognosis than normal karyotype. Prognostic impact of many abnormalities could 
not be determined independently because of their association with complex 
karyotype. Neither complex karyotype nor secondary aberrations affected outcome 
of patients with t(8;21), inv(16)/t(16;16), or t(9;11). Among other patients, 
those with complex karyotypes had significantly worse outcomes than 
cytogenetically normal patients. Based on outcome for specific cytogenetic 
abnormalities and karyotype complexity, patients were divided into 3 risk 
groups: favorable (CR 88%, CIR 54%, OS 55%), intermediate (CR 67%, CIR 67%, OS 
24%), and adverse (CR 32%, CIR 92%, OS 5%). Multivariate analyses confirmed the 
major contribution of cytogenetics to the probability of attaining CR, CIR, and 
OS. For the adverse-risk group, the probability of achieving CR was 4.0 and 11.9 
times lower, the probability of relapse 3.0 and 4.4 times higher, and the risk 
of death 2.1 and 4.3 times higher than those for the intermediate and favorable 
groups, respectively. We conclude that although the prognostic impact of many 
recurring abnormalities has not been ascertained independently of complex 
karyotype, cytogenetics is among the most useful factors predicting attainment 
of CR, CIR, and long-term survival in adult AML.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0772
PMID: 12393746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Gerontology. 2002 Nov-Dec;48(6):343-53. doi: 10.1159/000065506.

Aging Liver. A review.

Anantharaju A(1), Feller A, Chedid A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, FUHS/Chicago Medical School and Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, North Chicago, IL 60064, USA.

Aging is characterized by a progressive decline of cellular functions. The aging 
liver appears to preserve its function relatively well. Aging is associated in 
human liver with morphological changes such as decrease in size attributable to 
decreased hepatic blood flow. Ultrastructural analysis of the human liver has 
revealed that the integrity of mitochondria and enzymatic activity remain mostly 
unchanged with aging. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the aging 
process and result mainly from nonenzymatic processes in the liver. Endogenous 
free radicals are generated within mitochondria and suspected to cause severe 
injury to mitochondrial DNA. This damaged DNA accumulates with aging. In 
addition, polyunsaturated fatty acids, highly sensitive to ROS, decrease in 
liver mitochondria from human centenarians, a feature acquired during evolution 
as a protective mechanism to favor longevity. Diet is considered the main 
environmental factor having effect on lifespan. It has a major impact on aging 
liver, the central metabolic organ of the body. The ubiquitin proteolytic 
pathway in the liver serves to destroy many proteins, among them p21 which is 
encoded by abundant mRNA in senescent cells, can inhibit cell proliferation and 
favors DNA repair. Drug therapy in the elderly may be complicated by several 
factors such as decline in body weight, renal function, liver mass and hepatic 
blood flow, making adverse drug reactions more frequent. Hepatic drug metabolism 
is mainly mediated by the cytochrome P(450 )system and drug interactions in the 
elderly are likely related to the progressive decline of this system after the 
fifth decade of life and another decrease in individuals aged >70. 
Antihypertensive therapy in the elderly depends upon either hepatic or renal 
function and should be adjusted accordingly. Finally, telomerases are the 
biological clocks of replicative lifespan. Shortening of telomeric ends of 
chromosomes correlates with aging and decline in the replicative potential of 
the cell: replicative senescence. Telomere DNA of human somatic cells shortens 
during each cell division thus leading to a finite proliferation. Transfection 
of the telomerase reverse transcriptase gene results in elongation of telomeres 
and extension of lifespan. This also applies to humans. Replicative senescence 
in human cells evolved as a mechanism to protect them from continuous divisions 
leading to multiple mutations. Longer-lived species such as humans had to 
develop replicative senescence to ensure that they would have the increased 
protection that their longevity necessitates.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000065506
PMID: 12393949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Gerontology. 2002 Nov-Dec;48(6):360-8. doi: 10.1159/000065504.

Knee extension strength is a significant determinant of static and dynamic 
balance as well as quality of life in older community-dwelling women with 
osteoporosis.

Carter ND(1), Khan KM, Mallinson A, Janssen PA, Heinonen A, Petit MA, McKay HA; 
Fall-Free BC Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Fall-Free BC Research Group: BC Women's Hospital and Health Centre 
Osteoporosis Program and Faculty of Medicine (Department. of Family Practice), 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Determinants of balance have not been well studied in women with 
osteoporosis yet falls are the major cause of fracture in this population.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the associations among knee extension strength, 
medication history, medical history, physical activity and both static and 
dynamic balance in women diagnosed with osteoporosis.
METHODS: We assessed health history, current medication and quality of life by 
questionnaire in 97 community-dwelling women with osteoporosis. Static balance 
was measured by computerized dynamic posturography (Equitest), dynamic balance 
by timed figure-eight run, and knee extension strength by dynamometry.
RESULTS: The 97 participants (mean (SD) age 69 (3.2) years) had a mean lumbar 
spine BMD of T = -3.3 (0.7) and total hip BMD of -2.9 (0.4). In stepwise linear 
regression, the significant determinants of static balance that explained 18% of 
total variance were knee extension strength (10%, p < 0.001), age (5%, p < 0.01) 
and tobacco use (3%, p < 0.05). The significant predictors of dynamic balance 
were knee extension strength (26%, p < 0.001), medications (6%, p < 0.05), age 
(4%, p < 0.05), height (4%, p < 0.001), as well as years of estrogen use (2%), 
tobacco use (2%) and weight (2%) (all p < 0.05). Knee extension strength was 
also associated with quality of life (r(2) = 0.12, p < 0.001). Based on these 
models, a 1 kg/cm ( approximately 3%) increase in mean knee extension strength 
was associated with 1.2, 2.4 and 3.4% greater static balance, dynamic balance 
and quality of life, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Knee extension strength is a significant determinant of performance 
on static and dynamic balance tests in 65- to 75-year-old women with 
osteoporosis. In this cross-sectional study, knee extension strength explained a 
greater proportion of the variance in balance tests than did age. Investigation 
into the effect of intervention to improve knee extension strength in older 
women with osteoporosis is warranted.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000065504
PMID: 12393951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Nurse Pract. 2002 Oct;27(10):26, 31-6; quiz 37. doi: 
10.1097/00006205-200210000-00008.

Identify and manage marfan syndrome in children.

Ryan-Krause P(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Nursing, New Haven, Conn, USA.

Marfan syndrome can reduce life expectancy and quality of life because of 
cardiac, orthopedic, ocular, and other system impairments. This article 
describes the syndrome from infancy through adolescence and our role in its 
identification and management.

DOI: 10.1097/00006205-200210000-00008
PMID: 12394586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Med Care. 2002 Oct;40(10):965-75. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200210000-00013.

New estimates of lifetime nursing home use: have patterns of use changed?

Spillman BC(1), Lubitz J.

Author information:
(1)The Urban Institute, Washington DC 20037, USA. bspillma@ui.urban.org

OBJECTIVES: The elderly population at risk for costly nursing home care is 
increasing. It is important to understand patterns of lifetime nursing home use 
and their implications for public and private payers. We provide new lifetime 
nursing home use estimates, project future use, and discuss cost implications.
METHODS: Data are next-of-kin reports of nursing home use for representative 
samples of decedents from the 1986 and 1993 National Mortality Followback 
Surveys. Future use is based on projected mortality from the Social Security 
Administration.
RESULTS: The proportion of elderly decedents who ever used a nursing home rose 
modestly between 1986 and 1993, with increased use before the last year of life. 
Rising longevity after age 65 and older the next 20 years will increase the risk 
for a 65 year old ever entering a nursing home to 46%. With increased survival 
to age 65, the number of 65 year olds ultimately using nursing homes will double 
by 2020.
CONCLUSIONS: Disability declines and changes in Medicare policy between 1986 and 
1993 had little impact on overall patterns of nursing home use. Barring dramatic 
changes in health status or other factors, population aging will make nursing 
home costs a growing share of national health spending. More needs to be known 
about relationships between nursing home use and alternative care settings and 
the cost and quality implications of shifts from one setting to the other. A key 
issue is how constraints on Medicare SNF and home health benefits will affect 
use and the distribution of costs.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200210000-00013
PMID: 12395029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):385-6. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0118-1.

[Life expectancy in Germany].

[Article in German]

Klein T.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0118-1
PMID: 12395232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):387-99. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0119-0.

[Long-term trends of the demographic aging in Germany].

[Article in German]

Birg H(1), Flöthmann EJ.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Bevölkerungsforschung und Sozialpolitik der Universität 
Bielefeld Postfach 100131 33501 Bielefeld, Germany. herwig.birg@uni-bielefeld.de

At the beginning of the 21st century, Germany is experiencing the highest 
demographic aging after Japan. The aging process was first initiated by the 
increase of life expectancy, especially at the age above 60 years which caused 
an increase in the number of old people. During the next phase (1970-2000) the 
aging process was additionally affected by decreasing birth rates. Since the end 
of the 1960s the total fertility rate in Germany has been below the replacement 
level. As a consequence the number of children is decreasing and the number of 
old people has been increasing for 30 years. Various population projections 
published by the Institute for Population Research and Social Policy (IBS) 
demonstrate that the aging process will intensify during the next 50 years: the 
number of the oldest old population will triple, and the dependancy ratio will 
at least double. This process cannot be stopped or considerably diminished by an 
increasing number of young immigrants. After 2050 the cohorts born after the 
second world war (the baby boom cohorts) will be dead. But the decreasing number 
of old people beyond 2050 will not automatically lead to a lower dependancy 
ratio, because the age group 0-20 is diminishing continuously. Only a rise of 
the total fertility rate to the replacement level of 2.1 children per women 
could stop the aging process effectively in the long run (i.e., after two 
generations or after 60 years, respectively). In this case, the dependancy ratio 
will not double or triple but increase by a factor of 1.5.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0119-0
PMID: 12395233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):400-5. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0120-7.

[The long-run development of mortality in Germany].

[Article in German]

Dinkel RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Univ. Rostock Ulmenstr. 69 18051 Rostock, Germany.

The paper deals with the long-run development in mortality at individual ages in 
Germany by using a relative index of change in probabilities to die. The 
mortality at early childhood ages diminished to about one percent of what it was 
in the first German life table of 1871/81. Changes in infant mortality alone 
were responsible for 25 percent of the total increase in "life expectancy at 
birth" in the observation period. Changes in mortality at ages below 10 
accounted for roughly 50 percent of change in life expectancy at birth. In the 
second part of the paper the measurement concept is used to evaluate assumptions 
about the future course of mortality in Germany. The most recent official 
forecast by the German Statistical Office is used to demonstrate the principle. 
The official assumptions about the future mortality proof to be unrealistically 
conservative. At ages below 20 the latest available data on mortality are more 
favorable than what is assumed for the year 2050.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0120-7
PMID: 12395234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):406-11. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0121-6.

[Development of mortality in western and eastern Germany since 1991].

[Article in German]

Sommer B(1).

Author information:
(1)Statistisches Bundesamt 65180 Wiesbaden, Germany.

At the beginning of the 1990s, life expectancy was clearly higher in the western 
part of Germany than in the eastern part (life table 1991/93, difference in life 
expectancy of newborn boys 3.25 years, girls 2.3 years). Since then the life 
expectancy has increased in western and eastern Germany differently. Despite a 
harmonization, differences still exist (life table 1997/99: boys 1.8 years, 
girls 0.8 years). Based on age-specific mortality rates, the decrease of 
mortality between 1991 and 1999 was particularly strong in the group of 25- to 
35-year-old persons in eastern Germany as well as in the group of 30- to 
35-year-old persons in western Germany. The largest differences in mortality - 
based on the probabilities of death in 1997/99 - are evident in the group of 
18-year-old men and women as well as in the group of men between 35 and 44 
years. At present women in eastern Germany show a lower mortality in some age 
groups than in western Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0121-6
PMID: 12395235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):412-29. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0122-5.

[Sex differences in mortality - time to take a second look].

[Article in German]

Luy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Bundesinstitut für Bevölkerungsforschung Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 4 65180 
Wiesbaden, Germany.

Ever since mortality has been measured, the existence of a female survival 
advantage is well known. This topic reached particular interest with the 
widening of the male-female survival gap during the general decline of mortality 
in the 20(th) century to an extent of seven years. Only in the last 20 years has 
a slight narrowing of this gap been observed. The numerous examinations of these 
sex differences in mortality can be classified into two main explanation 
categories: the biological and the behavioral or environmental explanations. 
While in the past, scientists searched for the responsible factors solely in one 
of these complexes, it is obvious today that the cause of this phenomenon can 
only be found in a multi-causal context. This article describes the current 
knowledge and summarizes the most important of them inside the framework of more 
current research which has enabled researchers to exclude the non-biological 
factors in comparing female and male survival patterns. Those indicate the 
existence of a female biological advantage, which however should not exceed a 
difference of 1-2 years. Consequently, the rest should be due to behavioral and 
environmental factors. But the additional existence of a cohort effect of people 
born between 1930 and the mid 1940s with a significant higher male excess 
mortality often remains unrecognized. This effect could lead again to a widening 
of this mortality gap in the near future. However, in the long term, we should 
expect a further decline of sex differences in mortality closer to the 
biological level due to the continuous approximation of female and male life 
styles and sex-specific mortality risks.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0122-5
PMID: 12395236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):430-40. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0123-4.

[Family biography and mortality in East and West Germany].

[Article in German]

Brockmann H(1), Klein T.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Soziologie Universität Heidelberg Sandgasse 9 69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany.

Since more than 200 years, it has been well known that a marriage prolongs one's 
life. Current research distinguishes between protective and selective processes. 
However, it has been missed that today's marital biographies are not 
characterized by one marital status but through a sequence of different events 
and transitions. It is the aim of the present study to try to determine the 
effect of marital biographies and mortality. An East-West German comparison 
tests, if and how historical events influence this connection. The analysis is 
based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. It can be shown that the 
protective effect of being married cumulates over years. Furthermore, each 
change in marital status increases the risk of mortality. However, persons 
recover from negative events (divorce, widowhood) over time. In East Germany, 
despite of historical change in 1989/90, the impact of the marital biography is 
at least as significant as in West Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0123-4
PMID: 12395237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):441-9. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0124-3.

[Social relationships, stress and mortality].

[Article in German]

Klein T(1), Löwel H, Schneider S, Zimmermann M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Soziologie Universität Heidelberg Sandgasse 9 69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany.

Empirically it has been demonstrated in many cases that social networks induce 
lower mortality rates. This article discusses various approaches to explain this 
phenomenon in consideration of the influence of stress. The empirical analysis 
refers to the complex interrelation between social networks, stress and 
mortality. In doing so, quantitative and qualitative aspects of social networks, 
different indicators of stress as well as the interaction effect of stress and 
social network is analyzed. Data derive from the German "MONICA Project" 
(MONICA=Monitoring of trends and determinants of cardiovascular diseases). The 
data comprise two cross-sectional surveys in 1984/85 and 1989/90 in the Augsburg 
area as well as a mortality follow-up in 1997/98. The study includes 7329 
persons between the age of 25 and 74 years with German nationality. The 
empirical analyses confirm the findings that social relationships induce lower 
mortality rates. Yet, social relationships lead to lower mortality independent 
of stress and social strains.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0124-3
PMID: 12395238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Oct;35(5):482-6. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0111-8.

[The parlamentary inquiry commission into the demographic change presents its 
final report].

[Article in German]

Naegele G(1).

Author information:
(1)Forschungsgesellschaft für Gerontologie e.V. Institut für Gerontologie 
Evinger Platz 13 44135 Dortmund, Germany.

In the spring of 2002, the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission into the Demographic 
Change finished its work and published its final report. The commission has been 
working for more than 10 years to analyze the challenges posed to the individual 
and society by the aging German society in a mid- and long-term perspective (up 
to 2050). The respective policy recommendations refer to the following issues: 
housing and living environments, intergenerational relations, family relations 
and other social networks, competence and productivity in old age, income 
security, demographic change and its effects on economic trends and the labor 
market, health, health care, long-term care and social services, migration and 
integration and the implications of the increasing cultural diversity in society 
and among the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0111-8
PMID: 12395242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Orv Hetil. 2002 Sep 22;143(38):2193-8.

[Delayed interval delivery in multiple pregnancy--case report and review of the 
literature].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nagy S(1), Dúcz R.

Author information:
(1)Petz Aladár Megyei Oktató Kórház, Szülészeti és Nógyógyászati Osztály, Gyór.

INTRODUCTION: The incidence of multiple pregnancies is increasing with 
concomitant increased risk in maternal and fetal complications. Premature 
rupture of membranes and consecutive premature delivery, especially that of 
immature babies with very low birth weight is accompanied by a high rate of 
perinatal morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVES: This is a case report of a mother with twin pregnancy, who aborted 
the first fetus at 17 weeks and successfully delivered the second one at 29 
weeks of gestation with an interval of 84 days following conservative treatment.
METHODS: Review of the literature reports the possibilities of the management of 
delayed interval delivery.
RESULTS: The authors conclude that by the use of tocolysis, antepartum steroid-, 
and antibiotic prophylaxis the life-expectancy of the retained fetus can be 
improved.
CONCLUSION: After the birth of the first fetus delayed delivery in multiple 
pregnancies can be successful in selected cases. They advocate it only in well 
prepared perinatal centers for physically and psychologically balanced patients, 
who are well informed about the risks and benefits of this trial.

PMID: 12395476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2002 Oct 5;146(40):1899-903.

[The 14th International Aids Conference: 'Knowledge, commitment and action'].

[Article in Dutch]

Prins M(1), van Asten LC, Stolte IG, Dukers NH, Coutinho RA.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum/Universiteit van Amsterdam, afd. Humane 
Retrovirologie, Amsterdam. mprins@gggd.amsterdam.nl

During the world AIDS conference in Barcelona it became clear that the 
worst-case scenario of 10 years ago has become a reality: the HIV epidemic is 
continuing to spread. Also in industrialised countries the incidence of HIV 
infections among homosexual men is once again increasing. An HIV vaccine is 
still not available. Although the development of antiretroviral therapy 
continues, HIV inhibitors do not result in an eradication of HIV. It is still 
not clear as to when therapy can best be started and what the consequences are 
of temporarily withdrawing therapy. In countries where HIV inhibitors are widely 
available, the life expectancy of HIV-infected persons is increasing. The life 
expectancy of HIV patients will possibly decrease again due to an increased 
resistance towards the currently available antiretroviral drugs.

PMID: 12395600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Biosoc Sci. 2002 Oct;34(4):541-58.

Demographic and health patterns in a rural community from the Basque area in 
Spain (1800-1990).

Alfonso Sánchez MA(1), Mendietat VP, Peña JA, Calderón R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal y Genetica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad 
del Pais Vasco, Bilbaó, Spain.

In this work, the evolution of demographic and health patterns in a Basque rural 
population from Spain is analysed, as they relate to progress in demographic and 
epidemiological transition. For this purpose, parochial record data on 13,298 
births and 9,215 deaths, registered during the 19th and 20th centuries 
(1800-1990), were examined. The study area is a rural community called Lanciego, 
which is located at the southern end of the Rioja Alavesa area (Alava Province, 
Basque Country). In Lanciego, demographic transition began in the final decade 
of the 19th century, when a definite, irreversible trend began towards a 
reduction in mortality. The decrease in the birth rate came later than that in 
the death rate, and did not start until the 1930s. The post-transitional stage 
seemed to be reached in the 1970s, when the birth and death rates showed values 
below 20 per 1,000. Other characteristics observed for the post-transitional 
stage in Lanciego are: (i) very low rates of infant mortality achieved at the 
expense of effective control of exogenous mortality; (ii) the mortality curve by 
ages changes from a U-shape (typical of populations with a high infant mortality 
rate and low life expectancy at birth) to a J-shape more characteristic of 
modern societies where longevity and life expectancy are considerably higher; 
(iii) a certain level of over-mortality among women in the senior age group 
(>65); and (iv) a significant proportion of mortality in recent times (1970-90) 
resulting from cardiovascular diseases and malignant neoplasms (post-transition 
causes). This last point is in contrast with observations from the first four 
decades of the 20th century, when infectious diseases and respiratory ailments 
were determining factors in mortality among this population. The data provided 
by the study of the variation over time in demographic and health patterns 
indicate that reducing the risk of mortality is one of the most important 
preconditions for fertility decline.

PMID: 12395868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Epidemiol. 2002 Jul;12(4):310-9. doi: 10.2188/jea.12.310.

Life-style and other characteristics of radiation workers at nuclear facilities 
in Japan: base-line data of a questionnaire survey.

Murata M(1), Miyake T, Inoue Y, Ohshima S, Kudo S, Yoshimura T, Akiba S, Tango 
T, Yoshimoto Y, Shimizu Y, Sobue T, Kusumi S, Iwasaki T, Yamagishi C, Matsudaira 
H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Radiation Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Association, Tokyo, 
Japan.

To examine confounding on the risk assessment of the radiation workers at 
nuclear facilities in Japan, a questionnaire survey of their characteristics 
such as life-style and occupational history was performed for 54,369 male and 
470 female workers who were currently engaged in the job and valid answers were 
obtained from 48,281 males and 428 females. In order to know whether these 
characteristics were different among different dose groups, the Mantel extension 
statistical test was performed only for male respondents, with cumulative 
radiation doses stratified into 5 classes. Increasing trend according to the 
increasing doses was statistically significant for the percentages of tobacco 
smokers and of heavy smokers. It was also the case for heavy alcohol drinkers. 
Percentages of workers who were engaged in jobs dealing with specific toxic 
materials were also increasing in the higher dose groups. On the other hand, 
percentage of workers who underwent the X-ray examination of the upper digestive 
tracts or other radiological examinations tended to be lower in higher dose 
groups. These results indicate that characteristics of radiation workers such as 
life-style are different among dose groups and thus may play a role as a 
confounding factor in the statistical relation between the radiation doses and 
cancer mortalities.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.12.310
PMCID: PMC10616363
PMID: 12395871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2002 Sep 29;357(1425):1197-210. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2002.1121.

Determinants of human population growth.

Lutz W(1), Qiang R.

Author information:
(1)Population Project, International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, 
Schlossplatz 1, A-2361 Laxenburg, Austria. lutz@iiasa.ac.at

The 20th century has seen unprecedented growth of the human population on this 
planet. While at the beginning of the century the Earth had an estimated 1.6 
billion inhabitants, this number grew to 6.1 billion by the end of the century, 
and further significant growth is a near certainty. This paper tries to 
summarize what factors lie behind this extraordinary expansion of the human 
population and what population growth we can expect for the future. It discusses 
the concept of demographic transition and the preconditions for a lasting 
secular fertility decline. Recent fertility declines in all parts of the world 
now make it likely that human population growth will come to an end over the 
course of this century, but in parts of the developing world significant 
population growth is still to be expected over the coming decades. The slowing 
of population growth through declining birth rates, together with still 
increasing life expectancy, will result in a strong ageing of population age 
structure. Finally, this paper presents a global level systematic analysis of 
the relationship between population density on the one hand, and growth and 
fertility rates on the other. This analysis indicates that in addition to the 
well-studied social and economic determinants, population density also presents 
a significant factor for the levels and trends of human birth rates.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2002.1121
PMCID: PMC1693032
PMID: 12396512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2002 Apr;28(2):69-72. doi: 
10.1783/147118902101196216.

Clinical performance of the Nova T380 intrauterine device in routine use by the 
UK Family Planning and Reproductive Health Research Network: 5-year report.

Cox M(1), Tripp J, Blacksell S; UK Family Planning and Reproductive Health 
Research Network.

Author information:
(1)Consultant Obstetrician and Gynecologits (Retired), Nuneaton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the pregnancy and 
complication rates of this new device, with its increased area of copper, in 
comparison with other published results, in the clinical setting of British 
general practice and family planning clinics.
DESIGN: Doctors working in general practice and at family planning clinics 
throughout the UK who collaborate in the UK Family Planning and Reproductive 
Health Research Network were responsible for the fitting of 574 Nova T380 
intrauterine contraceptive devices (IUDs). The Nova T (and formerly the 
identical Novagard IUDs have copper with a surface area of 200 mm(2). The Nova 
T380 has copper with a surface area of 380 mm(2).
RESULTS: This is the first 5-year report on this device. The 5-year cumulative 
life-table event rates per 100 women were pregnancy 2.0, expulsion 13.0, and 
removal for bleeding problems and bleeding with pain 29.6.
CONCLUSIONS: The increased surface area of copper was associated with a reduced 
pregnancy rate as compared to the Nova T though no statistical comparison is 
possible. Although the present study was not a direct comparative study with the 
Nova T, the result lends weight to the notion that increasing the copper reduces 
the pregnancy rate. The discontinuation rate for bleeding problems and bleeding 
with pain and the expulsion rates were higher than in published Nova T studies.

DOI: 10.1783/147118902101196216
PMID: 12396775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2002 Apr;28(2):73-7. doi: 
10.1783/147118902101196225.

Clinical performance of the levonorgestrel intrauterine system in routine use by 
the UK Family Planning and Reproductive Health Research Network: 5-year report.

Cox M(1), Tripp J, Blacksell S.

Author information:
(1)Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist (Retired), Nuneaton, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to determine the performance of the 
levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG IUS) in British women in routine 
clinical use.
DESIGN: Doctors working in general practice and at family planning clinics 
throughout the UK who collaborate in the UK Family Planning and Reproductive 
Health Research Network were responsible for the fitting of 678 LNG IUSs.
RESULTS: Gross cumulative event rates at 5 years per 100 women were pregnancy 
1.0, expulsion 5.9, removal for bleeding problems 16.7, removal for pain 4.3, 
and removal for pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) 1.2. Removals were also 
required for side effects that may be due to absorbed levonorgestrel. Positive 
effects include effective contraception and considerably reduced quantity of 
bleeding for most participants.
CONCLUSIONS: A need was identified to counsel women about the early bleeding 
problems including the possibility of oligomenorrhoea or amenorrhoea. This is 
considered to be very important as it will help women to persevere so that they 
can enjoy the longer-term benefits.

DOI: 10.1783/147118902101196225
PMID: 12396776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2002;3 Suppl 1:S65-6.
doi:  10.1080/146608202320374336.

Cost effectiveness: con.

Ramsey S(1).

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, USA.

DOI: 10.1080/146608202320374336
PMID: 12396812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Nature. 2002 Oct 24;419(6909):808-14. doi: 10.1038/nature01135.

Stochastic and genetic factors influence tissue-specific decline in ageing C. 
elegans.

Herndon LA(1), Schmeissner PJ, Dudaronek JM, Brown PA, Listner KM, Sakano Y, 
Paupard MC, Hall DH, Driscoll M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers, The State 
University of New Jersey, A232 Nelson Biological Laboratories, 604 Allison Road, 
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2002 Oct 24;419(6909):794-5.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an important model for studying the 
genetics of ageing, with over 50 life-extension mutations known so far. However, 
little is known about the pathobiology of ageing in this species, limiting 
attempts to connect genotype with senescent phenotype. Using ultrastructural 
analysis and visualization of specific cell types with green fluorescent 
protein, we examined cell integrity in different tissues as the animal ages. We 
report remarkable preservation of the nervous system, even in advanced old age, 
in contrast to a gradual, progressive deterioration of muscle, resembling human 
sarcopenia. The age-1(hx546) mutation, which extends lifespan by 60-100%, 
delayed some, but not all, cellular biomarkers of ageing. Strikingly, we found 
strong evidence that stochastic as well as genetic factors are significant in C. 
elegans ageing, with extensive variability both among same-age animals and 
between cells of the same type within individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature01135
PMID: 12397350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Crit Care. 2002 Oct;6(5):411-7. doi: 10.1186/cc1532. Epub 2002 Aug 15.

Clinical review: Intensive care follow-up--what has it told us?

Broomhead LR(1), Brett SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Hammersmith Hospital, London, 
UK.

The majority of intensive care practitioners, until comparatively recently, was 
content to discharge surviving patients to the care of referring primary 
specialty colleagues who would undertake subsequent inpatient and outpatient 
care. With the exception of mortality statistics from clinical studies, the 
practitioners were thus denied the opportunity of understanding the full impact 
of critical illness on a patient and their family. The concept of the intensive 
care follow-up clinic has developed more recently, and is run commonly on 
multidisciplinary lines. These clinics serve a number of purposes, but 
importantly have drawn attention to broader patient-centred outcomes after 
intensive care. Investigators are just beginning to identify, and in some cases 
quantify, the postdischarge burden on patient and family; additional useful data 
have also come from follow-up of specific disease states. The purpose of the 
present review is to highlight some of the important issues that impact on 
