recovery from critical illness towards an acceptable quality of postdischarge 
life. We have concentrated on the adult literature, and specifically on studies 
that inform us about the more general effects of critical illness. Head and 
spinal injury are thus largely ignored, as the effects of the primary injury 
overwhelm the effects of 'general' critical illness.

DOI: 10.1186/cc1532
PMCID: PMC137315
PMID: 12398780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Bacteriol. 2002 Nov;184(22):6343-50. doi:
10.1128/JB.184.22.6343-6350.2002.

Functional analysis of TraA, the sex pheromone receptor encoded by pPD1, in a 
promoter region essential for the mating response in Enterococcus faecalis.

Horii T(1), Nagasawa H, Nakayama J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Japan. 
aa07041@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Conjugative transfer of a bacteriocin plasmid, pPD1, of Enterococcus faecalis is 
induced in response to a peptide sex pheromone, cPD1, secreted from plasmid-free 
recipient cells. cPD1 is taken up by a pPD1 donor cell and binds to an 
intracellular receptor, TraA. Once a recipient cell acquires pPD1, it starts to 
produce an inhibitor of cPD1, termed iPD1, which functions as a TraA antagonist 
and blocks self-induction in donor cells. In this study, we discuss how TraA 
transduces the signal of cPD1 to the mating response. Gel mobility shift assays 
indicated that TraA is bound to a traA-ipd intergenic region, which is essential 
for cPD1 response. DNase I footprinting analysis suggested the presence of one 
strong (tab1) and two weak (tab2 and tab3) TraA-binding sites in the intergenic 
region. Primer extension analysis implied that the transcriptional initiation 
sites of traA and ipd were located in the intergenic region. Northern analysis 
showed that cPD1 upregulated and downregulated transcription of ipd and traA, 
respectively. The circular permutation assay showed that TraA bent a DNA 
fragment corresponding to the tab1 region, and its angle was changed in the 
presence of cPD1 or iPD1. From these data, we propose a model that TraA changes 
the conformation of the tab1 region in response to cPD1 and upregulates the 
transcription of ipd, which may lead to expression of genes required for the 
mating response.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.184.22.6343-6350.2002
PMCID: PMC151941
PMID: 12399504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Surg Endosc. 2003 Jan;17(1):134-42. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8901-z. Epub
2002  Oct 29.

Laparoscopic versus open donor nephrectomy.

Pace KT(1), Dyer SJ, Phan V, Stewart RJ, Honey RJ, Poulin EC, Schlachta CM, 
Mamazza J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. kenneth.pace@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: As compared with open donor nephrectomy (OpenDN), laparoscopic donor 
nephrectomy (LapDN) offers donors more rapid recovery and recipients equivalent 
graft function, but LapDN costs remain greater. This study compared LapDN and 
OpenDN with cost-utility analysis.
METHODS: Utilities were assessed with time trade-off, probabilities derived from 
systematic review of the literature and the costs derived from 27 OpenDN and 34 
LapDN patients treated contemporaneously. A societal perspective was taken. Lost 
employment costs were included. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
was calculated with best- and worst-case scenarios for confidence intervals. 
Sensitivity analyses assessed robustness.
RESULTS: LapDN costs are lower (11,170.71 dollars vs 12,631.91 dollars), whereas 
quality of life (QOL) is superior (0.7247 vs 0.6585 quality-adjusted life years 
[QALY], rendering LapDN a dominant strategy. The model was robust to all 
variables, and LapDN remained dominant from a payer perspective. In a worst-case 
scenario, the ICER for LapDN was at most 2,231.61 dollars per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: LapDN offers improved QOL at lower costs, despite the fact that 
this analysis included patients treated during the learning curve of LapDN at 
our institution. By potentially increasing organ donor rates, LapDN may be 
further cost saving by decreasing the number of patients receiving dialysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8901-z
PMID: 12399837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. N J Med. 2002 Oct;99(10):29-37.

Coronary heart disease and cancer in twentieth-century America. An etiological 
dilemma.

Grob GN(1).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers University, USA.

PMID: 12400234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2002;21(1):29-44. doi: 10.1023/a:1020164206406.

Surgery for prostate cancer: rationale, technique and outcomes.

Downs TM(1), Kane CJ, Grossfeld GD, Meng MV, Carroll PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and UCSF/Mt Zion Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California, San Francisco 94143-0738, USA.

Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous malignancy in men and poses a 
substantial risk to the life and health of patients. Treatment options for 
patients with prostate cancer are plentiful. Radical prostatectomy is one option 
that can be performed using several different surgical approaches. It can be 
performed with limited risk of complications and is likely to be curative in 
patients with organ-confined disease and those with limited extracapsular 
extension.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1020164206406
PMID: 12400995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Lancet. 2002 Oct 19;360(9341):1184-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11289-X.

Cardiopulmonary mortality and air pollution.

Peters A(1), Pope CA 3rd.

Author information:
(1)GSF National Research Centre for Environment and Health, Institute of 
Epidemiology, 85758, Neuherberg, Germany. peters@gsf.de

Comment on
    Lancet. 2002 Oct 19;360(9341):1203-9.
    Lancet. 2002 Oct 19;360(9341):1210-4.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11289-X
PMID: 12401239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Lancet. 2002 Oct 19;360(9341):1203-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11280-3.

Association between mortality and indicators of traffic-related air pollution in 
the Netherlands: a cohort study.

Hoek G(1), Brunekreef B, Goldbohm S, Fischer P, van den Brandt PA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Environmental and Occupational Health 
group, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands. g.hoek@iras.uu.nl

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Oct 19;360(9341):1184-5.
    Lancet. 2003 Feb 1;361(9355):430; author reply 430.

BACKGROUND: Long-term exposure to particulate matter air pollution has been 
associated with increased cardiopulmonary mortality in the USA. We aimed to 
assess the relation between traffic-related air pollution and mortality in 
participants of the Netherlands Cohort study on Diet and Cancer (NLCS), an 
ongoing study.
METHODS: We investigated a random sample of 5000 people from the full cohort of 
the NLCS study (age 55-69 years) from 1986 to 1994. Long-term exposure to 
traffic-related air pollutants (black smoke and nitrogen dioxide) was estimated 
for the 1986 home address. Exposure was characterised with the measured regional 
and urban background concentration and an indicator variable for living near 
major roads. The association between exposure to air pollution and (cause 
specific) mortality was assessed with Cox's proportional hazards models, with 
adjustment for potential confounders.
FINDINGS: 489 (11%) of 4492 people with data died during the follow-up period. 
Cardiopulmonary mortality was associated with living near a major road (relative 
risk 1.95, 95% CI 1.09-3.52) and, less consistently, with the estimated ambient 
background concentration (1.34, 0.68-2.64). The relative risk for living near a 
major road was 1.41 (0.94-2.12) for total deaths. Non-cardiopulmonary, non-lung 
cancer deaths were unrelated to air pollution (1.03, 0.54-1.96 for living near a 
major road).
INTERPRETATION: Long-term exposure to traffic-related air pollution may shorten 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11280-3
PMID: 12401246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2002 Jun;15(2):277-93. doi: 
10.1016/s1521-6926(02)90006-x.

Diagnosis and management of genetic haemochromatosis.

Dooley JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Hepatology, Royal Free and University College Medical School 
(Royal Free Campus), Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, UK.

Haemochromatosis may be inherited or acquired. The commonest inherited form is 
HFE-related genetic haemochromatosis (GH). This is associated with homozygosity 
for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene. Individuals with GH present in several 
ways depending upon the severity of iron overload. However, only a small 
proportion of genetically susceptible individuals develop disease. Diagnosis of 
GH is based on measurement of transferrin saturation, serum ferritin levels and 
mutation analysis of HFE. Liver biopsy is not necessary for diagnosis. It is 
used to establish the severity of liver disease in selected patients. Other 
complications of iron overload are identified by specific tests. Initial 
management of GH is by weekly venesection until borderline iron deficiency is 
achieved. The serum ferritin is then maintained at 50 microg/l by 3-6 monthly 
venesection. Specific organ damage is managed appropriately. Early diagnosis and 
treatment before irreversible damage has occurred gives a normal life 
expectancy. Non-HFE related inherited iron overload may be due to mutations in 
other iron related genes. Management is along the same lines as for GH, although 
if venesection is not tolerated, other approaches may be necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/s1521-6926(02)90006-x
PMID: 12401308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Am J Med. 2002 Oct 1;113(5):400-8. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01243-3.

Estimating the cost-effectiveness of 54 weeks of infliximab for rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Wong JB(1), Singh G, Kavanaugh A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tupper Research 
Institute, Tufts-New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. jwong@lifespan.org

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of infliximab plus methotrexate for 
active, refractory rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: We projected the 54-week results from a randomized controlled trial of 
infliximab into lifetime economic and clinical outcomes using a Markov computer 
simulation model. Direct and indirect costs, quality of life, and disability 
estimates were based on trial results; Arthritis, Rheumatism, and Aging Medical 
Information System (ARAMIS) database outcomes; and published data. Results were 
discounted using the standard 3% rate. Because most well-accepted medical 
therapies have cost-effectiveness ratios below $50,000 to $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, results below this range were 
considered to be "cost-effective."
RESULTS: At 3 mg/kg, each infliximab infusion would cost $1393. When compared 
with methotrexate alone, 54 weeks of infliximab plus methotrexate decreased the 
likelihood of having advanced disability from 23% to 11% at the end of 54 weeks, 
which projected to a lifetime marginal cost-effectiveness ratio of $30,500 per 
discounted QALY gained, considering only direct medical costs. When applying a 
societal perspective and including indirect or productivity costs, the marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratio for infliximab was $9100 per discounted QALY gained. 
The results remained relatively unchanged with variation of model estimates over 
a broad range of values.
CONCLUSIONS: Infliximab plus methotrexate for 54 weeks for rheumatoid arthritis 
should be cost-effective with its clinical benefit providing good value for the 
drug cost, especially when including productivity losses. Although infliximab 
beyond 54 weeks will likely be cost-effective, the economic and clinical benefit 
remains uncertain and will depend on long-term results of clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01243-3
PMID: 12401535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol. 2002 Oct;14(5):453-7. doi: 
10.1097/00001703-200210000-00003.

Fertility options for HIV patients.

Bendikson KA(1), Anderson D, Hornstein MD.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This paper reviews the latest reproductive options for HIV 
infected couples. In light of the new treatment options and improved prognosis 
for HIV patients, policymakers have issued recent statements to guide physicians 
in the care of HIV patients desiring fertility. We will review the advances in 
reproductive technologies and ethical considerations that have led to these most 
recent statements.
RECENT FINDINGS: Millions of young adults of reproductive age are afflicted with 
the HIV virus. With the improvement in treatment options for HIV patients and 
the increase in their life expectancy it is not surprising that many HIV 
patients desire children. Assisted reproductive technologies can assist 
serodiscordant couples in achieving pregnancy while at the same time minimizing 
risk of HIV transmission to the uninfected partner. Several European fertility 
clinics have a great deal of experience in providing both intrauterine 
inseminations and in-vitro fertilization to serodiscordant couples without 
seroconversion of the uninfected female partners. This is both a medical and an 
ethical issue. Guidelines from policymakers regarding this issue have changed 
over the years as a result of both changes in disease prognosis and the 
reproductive technologies.
SUMMARY: Reproductive technologies provide a logical way to minimize HIV 
transmission for HIV couples desiring pregnancy. Although the most recent 
research is compelling, much more needs to be performed in order to establish 
the safety of these techniques. Protocols need to be put in place in order to 
assist physicians in better serving these patients. In addition, many ethical 
and legal issues need to be addressed before these treatments can become 
standard of care in the United States.

DOI: 10.1097/00001703-200210000-00003
PMID: 12401971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol. 2002 Oct;14(5):527-35. doi: 
10.1097/00001703-200210000-00015.

The role of synthetic and biological prostheses in reconstructive pelvic floor 
surgery.

Birch C(1), Fynes MM.

Author information:
(1)Pelvic Reconstruction and Urogynaecology Unit, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK. 
birch_colin@hotmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Uterovaginal prolapse and urinary incontinence are common 
problems whose pathogenesis remains unclear. As life expectancy increases, 
significantly greater numbers of women will present with pelvic floor prolapse 
and incontinence requiring surgical intervention. Currently, the lifetime risk 
of undergoing prolapse or continence surgery in the USA is one in 11, and up to 
30% of patients will require repeat prolapse and 10% repeat continence surgery. 
In an attempt to improve surgical outcomes and to preserve vaginal capacity and 
coital function, a number of synthetic and biological prostheses have been 
developed. This review aims to look at the controversies that exist as the 
'ideal' prosthetic material is developed.
RECENT FINDINGS: The recent literature has reflected the increasing interest in 
the use of biological prostheses (Allograft/Xenograft) and synthetic absorbable 
meshes. There has been a focus on the risk factors for erosion seen with the use 
of synthetic non-absorbable material and a review of techniques for the 
reduction and management of this complication. The advent of mesh placement in 
minimally invasive continence surgery (tension-free vaginal tape, intravaginal 
sling, and Supra Public ARC) is now seeing surgical success to 5 years, but the 
reporting of complications remains inconsistent.
SUMMARY: The use of prosthetics in pelvic floor and continence surgery is an 
evolving field. Further randomized controlled trials are required to evaluate 
the role of both biological and synthetic prostheses in reconstructive surgery, 
to determine which type of prosthesis is most suitable for specific procedures. 
Prosthetic reinforcement should not be used to replace good surgical techniques.

DOI: 10.1097/00001703-200210000-00015
PMID: 12401983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2002 Oct;29(10):1779-83.

[Serum lactate dehydrogenase and CD4+/CD8+ lymphocyte ratio predict survival in 
terminally ill cancer patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohara T(1), Takahashi M, Yamanaka H, Yamamoto Y, Shimada A, Nakaho T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pain Control, Dept. of Anesthesiology and Emergency Medicine, 
Tohoku University Postgraduate Medical School.

Accurate estimation of survival is important for effective palliative medicine 
of patients with cancer. In most clinical practice, however, the life expectancy 
has been predicted based on subjective evaluations. The purpose of this study 
was to find objective biological markers that can contribute to accurate 
prediction of survival in terminally ill cancer patients. Consecutive terminally 
ill cancer patients admitted to the Palliative Care Center in Tohoku University 
hospital from January to May 2001 were approached for this study. Forty-eight 
blood samples were obtained from 25 patients who provided a written informed 
consent. Common serum enzyme markers were determined using standard hospital 
laboratory methods. Cellular immunity status was evaluated by peripheral blood 
lymphocyte-subset analysis using flow cytometry. Mean patient survival was 33.5 
+/- 21.6 (1-80) days. Multiple regression analysis revealed that lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) and the CD4+/CD8+ ratio were significantly associated with 
survival (r = 0.64, p < 0.0001). Further prospective studies are warranted to 
validate the usefulness of these determinants for accurate prediction of 
survival.

PMID: 12402429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. World Hosp Health Serv. 2002;38(2):31-5.

Trends in international health development.

Lien L(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), Oslo, Norway.

"... Good population health is a crucial input into poverty reduction, economic 
growth and long-term economic development... This point is widely recognised by 
analysts and policy makers, but is greatly underestimated in its qualitative and 
quantitative significance, and in the investment allocations of many developing 
country and donor governments."--Commission on Macroeconomics and Health
PURPOSE OF ARTICLE: The international health development scene has changed 
rapidly during the past 5 years. From being a merely bilateral effort together 
with a few multilateral organisations and many NGOs new global partnerships have 
entered the scene and become major funding agencies. The provision of aid has 
also changed from small-scale project basis to financial support of large 
programmes. The purpose of this article is to describe some of the major 
transformations taken place in the organising, delivery and objective of 
international health development. But before presenting the new international 
health development agenda, a short introduction to the challenges inducing the 
need for renewed thinking about international aid is shortly presented.

PMID: 12402750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20(14):943-61. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200220140-00001.

Theoretical arguments for the discounting of health consequences: where do we go 
from here?

Lazaro A(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Derecho, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain. 
alazaro@posta.unizar.es

Despite the theoretical arguments presented in the literature regarding 
discounting over the last 25 years, no satisfactory reply has yet been offered 
to the question of whether health consequences have to be discounted at the same 
rate as monetary consequences in the economic evaluation of health programmes or 
interventions designed to improve health. Against this background, the main 
objective of this paper was to review and systemise these theoretical arguments, 
with the aim of determining whether any of the positions identified can be 
accepted without reservation. Having determined that this is not possible, we 
investigated the rationality of discounting in the literature and, on this 
basis, propose a potential way to resolve the problem. Thus, we argue that the 
relationship between the discount of monetary and health consequences has to be 
determined in an indirect manner, by reference to the relationship maintained by 
the individual time preference rates for health and money in the context of 
private and social choice. Although this proposal moves the debate into the 
empirical field, its advantages must be weighed against the difficulties 
associated with the estimation of the time preferences.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220140-00001
PMID: 12403636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Mol Endocrinol. 2002 Nov;16(11):2657-66. doi: 10.1210/me.2002-0142.

Gene expression patterns in calorically restricted mice: partial overlap with 
long-lived mutant mice.

Miller RA(1), Chang Y, Galecki AT, Al-Regaiey K, Kopchick JJ, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, 
USA. millerr@umich.edu

To gain insight into the pathways by which caloric restriction (CR) slows aging, 
gene expression levels were assessed for each of 2,352 genes in the livers of 
9-month-old CR and control mice. A total of 352 genes were found to be 
significantly increased or decreased by CR. The distribution of affected genes 
among functional classes was similar to the distribution of genes within the 
test set. Surprisingly, a disruption or knockout of the gene for the GH receptor 
(GHR-KO), which also produces life extension, had a much smaller effect on gene 
expression, with no more than 10 genes meeting the selection criterion. There 
was, however, an interaction between the GHR-KO mutation and the CR diet: the 
effects of CR on gene expression were significantly lower in GHR-KO mice than in 
control mice. Of the 352 genes altered significantly by CR, 29 had shown a 
significant and parallel alteration in expression in a previous study of liver 
gene expression that compared mice of the long-lived Snell dwarf stock (dw/dw) 
to controls. These 29 genes, altered both by CR and in dwarf mice, provide a 
list of biochemical features common to both models of delayed aging, and thus 
merit confirmation and more detailed study.

DOI: 10.1210/me.2002-0142
PMID: 12403853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Intervirology. 2002;45(3):142-9. doi: 10.1159/000065867.

Large hepatitis delta antigen is phosphorylated at multiple sites and 
phosphorylation is associated with protein conformational change.

Choi SH(1), Park KJ, Hwang SB.

Author information:
(1)Ilsong Institute of Life Science, The Hallym Academy of Sciences, Hallym 
University, Anyang, Korea.

Hepatitis delta antigen (HDAg) consists of two species, small HDAg (SHDAg) and 
large HDAg (LHDAg), which are identical in sequence with the exception that the 
large form contains an additional 19 amino acids at the C-terminus. Both HDAgs 
are nuclear phosphoproteins. However, LHDAg is hyperphosphorylated, i.e. it is 
at least 10 times more phosphorylated than SHDAg. To determine the 
phosphorylation site(s) of the LHDAg, we mutated all the conserved serine 
residues and expressed these mutant proteins using a recombinant baculovirus 
expression system. By labeling insect cells in vivo with (32)P-orthophosphate 
and immunoprecipitation, we showed that LHDAg is phosphorylated at multiple 
serine residues. Although LHDAg contains two additional serines at its 19-amino 
acid extension, mutations of these two amino acids did not affect the overall 
phosphorylation level. Most importantly, the phosphorylation level of middle 
domain-deleted LHDAg (M75del) was significantly higher than that of wild-type 
LHDAg. We conclude that phosphorylation of the LHDAg occurs at multiple sites 
and that hyperphosphorylation is associated with alteration of protein 
conformation.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000065867
PMID: 12403918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2002 Sep;39(5):483-8.

[Cost-effectiveness of hip fracture in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Ota T, Harada A, Tokuda H.

PMID: 12404738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Biomedica. 2002 Sep;22(3):303-18.

[AIDS mortality and its economic impact in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, 
1995-2000].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvis N(1), Correa Reyes J, Carcamo A.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Cartagena, Cartagena, Colombia.

PMID: 12404931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2002;41(14):1115-33. doi:
10.2165/00003088-200241140-00001.

Antiretroviral pharmacokinetics in the paediatric population: a review.

King JR(1), Kimberlin DW, Aldrovandi GM, Acosta EP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama 35294-0019, USA.

Characteristics unique to paediatric pharmacotherapy should be considered when 
treating children infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Processes of 
growth and development in the paediatric patient can significantly affect drug 
absorption and disposition. Immature renal function, altered hepatic enzyme 
activity and differences in drug absorption lead to variations in systemic 
exposure of antiretrovirals among children. Paediatric patients are also subject 
to unique circumstances that may prevent adherence to antiretroviral regimens. 
The pharmacokinetics of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors differ 
significantly among preterm infants, full-term infants and older children. 
Decreased hepatic glucuronidation activity in neonates results in 
pharmacokinetic differences in zidovudine disposition when compared with older 
children. Didanosine, stavudine and lamivudine are renally eliminated, thus 
resulting in differences among young children with immature renal function. 
Pharmacokinetic data for non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors in 
children are limited. Decreased elimination of nevirapine among neonates has 
been observed, primarily due to decreased enzymatic activity. Pharmacokinetic 
differences across age groups have been noted for efavirenz, but no formal 
assessments have been conducted in children weighing less than 10kg. Protease 
inhibitors are metabolised by the cytochrome P450 enzyme system, which is not 
fully developed in younger children. Decreased metabolism can result in elevated 
plasma concentrations, thereby increasing the chance of toxicity. Unfortunately, 
few studies exist evaluating the pharmacokinetics of antiretrovirals in 
children. As a result, dosage selection of antiretrovirals in children often 
occurs without adequate data. As the life expectancy of HIV-infected children 
increases, use of antiretrovirals to prevent disease progression also increases. 
If prevention of treatment failure continues to be the goal of antiretroviral 
therapy, the pharmacokinetics of antiretrovirals in children need to be assessed 
early in the drug development process.

DOI: 10.2165/00003088-200241140-00001
PMID: 12405863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Dec;55(11):1905-21. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00320-3.

The contribution of medical care to changing life expectancy in Germany and 
Poland.

Nolte E(1), Scholz R, Shkolnikov V, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, UK. 
ellen.nolte@lshtm.ac.uk

This paper assesses the impact of medical care on changes in mortality in east 
Germany and Poland before and after the political transition, with west Germany 
included for comparison. Building upon Rutstein's concept of unnecessary 
untimely deaths, we calculated the contribution of conditions considered 
responsive to medical care or health policy to changes in life expectancy 
between birth and age 75 [e(0-75)] for the periods 1980/1983-1988 and 
1991/1992-1996/1997. Temporary life expectancy, between birth and age 75, has 
been consistently higher in west Germany, intermediate in east Germany and 
lowest in Poland. Although improving in all three regions between the early 
1980s and the late 1990s, the pace of change differed between countries, 
resulting in a temporary widening of an initial east-west gap by the late 1980s 
and early 1990s. In the 1980s, in east Germany, 50-60% of the improvement was 
attributable to declining mortality from conditions responsive to medical care 
(west Germany: 30-40%). A net positive effect was also observed in Poland, 
although counterbalanced by deterioration in ischaemic heart disease 
mortality.In the former communist countries, improvements attributable to 
medical care in the 1980s were due, largely, to declining infant mortality. In 
the 1990s, they benefited also adults, specifically those aged 35+ in Poland and 
55+ in Germany. A persisting east-west gap in temporary life expectancy in 
Germany was due, largely, to higher mortality from avoidable conditions in the 
east, with causes responsive to health policy contributing about half, and 
medical care 16% (men) to 24% (women) to the differential in 1997. The findings 
indicate that changes in the health care system related to the political 
transition were associated with improvements in life expectancy in east Germany 
and, to a lesser extent, in Poland. Also, differences in the quality of medical 
care as assessed by the concept of "unnecessary untimely deaths" appear to 
contribute to a persisting east-west health gap. Especially in Poland and the 
former German Democratic Republic there remains potential for further progress 
that would narrow the health gap with the west.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00320-3
PMID: 12406460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Am J Prev Med. 2002 Nov;23(4):276-89. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(02)00516-0.

Do HEDIS measures reflect cost-effective practices?

Neumann PJ(1), Levine BS.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Center for Risk 
Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
pneumann@hsph.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: Whether the Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set (HEDIS) 
performance measures for managed care plans encourage a cost-effective use of 
society's resources has not been quantified. Our study objectives were to 
examine the cost-effectiveness evidence for the clinical practices underlying 
HEDIS 2000 measures and to develop a list of practices not reflected in HEDIS 
that have evidence of cost effectiveness.
DATA SOURCES: Two databases of economic evaluations (Harvard School of Public 
Health Cost-Utility Registry and the Health Economics Evaluation Database) and 
two published lists of cost-effectiveness ratios in health and medicine.
STUDY SELECTION: For each of the 15 "effectiveness of care" measures in HEDIS 
2000, we searched the data through 1998 for cost-effectiveness ratios of similar 
interventions and target populations. We also searched for important 
interventions with evidence of cost-effectiveness (<$20,000 per life-year [LY] 
or quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained), which are not included in HEDIS. 
All ratios were standardized to 1998 dollars. The data were collected and 
analyzed during fall 2000 to summer 2001.
DATA EXTRACTION: Cost-effectiveness ratios reporting outcomes in terms of 
cost/LY or cost/QALY gained were included if they matched the intervention and 
population covered by the HEDIS measure.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Evidence was available for 11 of the 15 HEDIS measures. 
Cost-effectiveness ranges from cost saving to $660,000/LY gained. There are 
numerous non-HEDIS interventions with some evidence of cost effectiveness, 
particularly interventions to promote healthy behaviors.
CONCLUSIONS: HEDIS measures generally reflect cost-effective practices; however, 
in a number of cases, practices may not be cost effective for certain subgroups. 
Data quality and availability as well as study perspective remain key challenges 
in judging cost effectiveness. Opportunities exist to refine existing measures 
and to develop additional measures, which may promote a more efficient use of 
societal resources, although more research is needed on whether these measures 
would also satisfy other desirable attributes of HEDIS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(02)00516-0
PMID: 12406482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. CMAJ. 2002 Oct 15;167(8):880-1.

Searching for El Dorado: the impossibility of finding the right rate.

Frohlich N(1), Roos NP.

Author information:
(1)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, Department of of Community Health 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg.

PMCID: PMC128401
PMID: 12406947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2002 Sep;58(4 Pt 1):195-212.

[Long-term oxygen therapy for chronic respiratory failure. Rationale, 
indications, modalities].

[Article in French]

Weitzenblum E(1), Chaouat A, Kessler R.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire de Strasbourg, 67098 Strasbourg 
Cedex, France.

Long-term oxygen therapy (LOT) has become quite popular over the last 20 years 
due to better knowledge of the beneficial effect (improved life expectancy, 
improved quality of life, stabilization of the pulmonary hypertension) and to 
technological progress (concentrators, liquid oxygen). Ambulatory techniques 
have greatly contributed to the widespread use of oxygen therapy as has the 
decision of the French National Health Insurance System to reimburse this costly 
treatment. Almost all the studies devoted to the clinical and functional aspects 
of LOT have concerned patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). By extension, it is generally accepted that LOT is warranted in other 
forms of respiratory failure (diffuse fibrosis, cyphoscoliosis, cystic fibrosis, 
etc.) when blood gas criteria similar to those retained for COPD are present: 
PaO(2)<=55 mmHg during stable periods with control measurements at lest 3 weeks 
apart; PaO(2) between 56 and 60 mmHg if there is also an elevated red cell count 
or pulmonary hypertension, signs of cor pulmonale ou frank hypoxemia during 
sleep. These consensus indications are widely accepted but other indications 
remain controversial: should LOT be prescribed for moderate hypoexmia (PaO(2) 
>=60 mmHg), exercise-induced hyoxemia alone, sleep hypoxemia alone? Appropriate 
studies are lacking so systematic prescription of LOT cannot be recommended in 
these three situations. The duration of LOT should be >=16 h/d, and if possible 
>=18 h/d. It has been established that objective results (life expectancy, 
improvement in pulmonary hypertension) are better for longer daily treatment. 
Patient compliance is however often insufficient. In addition to education, the 
best way to improve patient participation is to strive for improved quality of 
life with oxygen therapy (portable device, liquid oxygen) in these patients.

PMID: 12407284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Public Health. 2002 Nov;116(6):315-21. doi: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900865.

Adjusted mortality rates: a tool for creating more meaningful league tables for 
stillbirth and infant mortality rates.

Joyce R(1), Webb R, Peacock JL, Stirland H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK. rachel.joyce@beds-ha.anglox.nhs.uk

A number of problems associated with league tables of performance indicators 
have been discussed in the literature. This paper attempts to address these 
problems for stillbirth and infant mortality rates in order to produce 
meaningful and useful information for the government, general public and health 
professionals. Composite stillbirth and infant mortality rates, low birth-weight 
and very low birth-weight rates were determined for the 100 English Health 
Authorities for 1996-1997. Townsend deprivation scores for these districts were 
also obtained. The mortality rates were adjusted by multiple regression for very 
low birth-weight and Townsend score separately and together. Confidence 
intervals were calculated for the dual-adjusted rates. Almost 60% of the 
variability in mortality rates were explained by Townsend score and very low 
birth-weight rates together. Adjusted league tables showed how the individual 
and combined predictors affect the individual mortality rates for each Health 
Authority. There was considerable overlap in the confidence intervals for the 
adjusted rates although there were a few Health Authorities whose mortality 
rates were clearly below most others. We conclude that fairer and more useful 
information is provided by geographically based league tables which give both 
crude rates and rates adjusted for single and multiple predictor variables. The 
inclusion of confidence intervals aids interpretation of annual random 
variations and knowledge of differences in the effects of the individual 
predictors enables better resource targeting.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ph.1900865
PMID: 12407470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Stat Med. 2002 Nov 30;21(22):3337-51. doi: 10.1002/sim.1303.

Aggregate data meta-analysis with time-to-event outcomes.

Williamson PR(1), Smith CT, Hutton JL, Marson AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Liverpool, UK. 
prw@liv.ac.uk

In a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials with time-to-event outcomes, 
an aggregate data approach may be required for some or all included studies. 
Variation in the reporting of survival analyses in journals suggests that no 
single method for extracting the log(hazard ratio) estimate will suffice. 
Methods are described which improve upon a previously proposed method for 
estimating the log(HR) from survival curves. These methods extend to 
life-tables. In the situation where the treatment effect varies over time and 
the trials in the meta-analysis have different lengths of follow-up, 
heterogeneity may be evident. In order to assess whether the hazard ratio 
changes with time, several tests are proposed and compared. A cohort study 
comparing life expectancy of males and females with cerebral palsy and a 
systematic review of five trials comparing two anti-epileptic drugs, 
carbamazepine and sodium valproate, are used for illustration.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1303
PMID: 12407676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2002 Aug;3(8):831-6.

[Refractory heart failure. Multisite stimulation].

[Article in Italian]

Boccanelli A(1), Gaita F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento per le Malattie dell'Apparato Cardiocircolatorio Azienda 
Ospedaliera San Giovanni-Addolorata Via dell'Amba Aradam, 8 00184 Roma. 
boccanelli.a@tin.it

The pathophysiological background of cardiac resynchronization therapy is 
represented by the intraventricular conduction delay such as left bundle branch 
block, present in about one third of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Intraventricular conduction block, with or without atrioventricular delay, 
adversely influences ventricular function due to unsynchronized contraction and 
is associated with a poor prognosis. Contractile dyssynchrony and abnormal 
atrioventricular delay can be corrected by non-conventional stimulation 
modalities such as left ventricular pacing or biventricular pacing associated 
with preexcitation to restore the physiological atrioventricular timing. Over 
the last decade several studies have reported the short- or long-term favorable 
effects of resynchronization therapy on the left ventricular function and 
remodeling, the quality of life, the functional capacity, the adrenergic 
activity, and the reduced rehospitalization rate. The most significant results 
have been reported in patients with a QRS duration > or = 150 ms, while the 
InSync Italian Registry has shown improvement even in patients with a QRS 
duration < 150 ms as well as in patients with atrial fibrillation. On the basis 
of such data it may be argued that the activation sequence of the different 
walls of the left ventricle is likely more important than the QRS duration. 
Inclusion criteria commonly used in the published or ongoing trials are: 
moderate to severe congestive heart failure (NYHA functional class III-IV) on 
optimized pharmacological treatment; left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 
35%; left ventricular diastolic diameter > 60 mm; end-diastolic mitral 
regurgitation; no need of conventional pacing. While with regard to the 
surrogate endpoints the results of published trials are very encouraging, we do 
not yet know whether resynchronization therapy prolongs the life expectancy of 
patients with heart failure. Studies able to provide important answers to these 
problems are near completion. In the meanwhile, in agreement with the guidelines 
of the European Society of Cardiology, it seems prudent to employ such a therapy 
only in case of patients satisfying the above-mentioned criteria.

PMID: 12407838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 2002 Nov;13(4):477-503. doi: 
10.1177/104920802237532.

Socioeconomic, cultural, and behavioral factors affecting Hispanic health 
outcomes.

Morales LS(1), Lara M, Kington RS, Valdez RO, Escarce JJ.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, USA.

Evidence suggests that social and economic factors are important determinants of 
health. Yet, despite higher porverty rates, less education, and worse access to 
health care, health outcomes of many Hispanics living in the United States today 
are equal to, or better than, those of non-Hispanic whites. This paradox is 
described in the literature as the epidemiological paradox or Hispanic health 
paradox. In this paper, the authors selectively review data and research 
supporting the existence of the epidemiological paradox. They find substantial 
support for the existence of the epidemiological paradox, particularly among 
Mexican Americans. Census undercounts of Hispanics, misclassification of 
Hispanic deaths, and emigration of Hispanics do not fully account for the 
epidemiological paradox. Identifying protective factors underlying the 
epidemiological paradox, while improving access to care and the economic 
conditions among Hispanics, are important research and policy implications of 
this review.

DOI: 10.1177/104920802237532
PMCID: PMC1781361
PMID: 12407964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Dig Liver Dis. 2002 Sep;34 Suppl 2:S19-24. doi:
10.1016/s1590-8658(02)80158-x.

Gastrointestinal tract and the elderly: functional foods, gut microflora and 
healthy ageing.

Saunier K(1), Doré J.

Author information:
(1)Ecology and Digestive Tract Physiology, UR910, National Institute of 
Agronomic Research, Jouy-en-Josas, France.

Advances in science and medicine as well as improved living standards have led 
to a steady increase in life expectancy. Yet ageing is associated with increased 
susceptibility to degenerative or infectious diseases, which may be exacerbated 
by a poor nutritional status. The intestinal microflora will mediate crucial 
events towards the protection or degradation of health. It is hence essential 
and timely that strategies of preventive nutrition aimed at maintaining or 
improving the quality of life of the ageing population be developed. 
"CROWNALIFE" is a newly funded EuropeanUnion project, so called because of its 
emphasis on the preservation of the period of independence of the elderly, 
recognised as the "crown of life". The project aims at assessing age-related 
alterations and exploring strategies to restore and maintain a balanced healthy 
intestinal environment. Current knowledge on the composition and function of the 
human intestinal microflora is still improving with the use of better 
methodologies and yet their evolution with ageing has not been investigated in 
detail. There have been a few reports that putatively protective lactic acid 
bacteria, in general, and bifidobacteria, in particular, seem less represented 
in the elderly faecal flora. We have also observed an increase in species 
diversity of the dominant faecal microflora with ageing. This certainly warrants 
confirmation and is being addressed by the investigation of age-related changes 
in the structure and function of the intestinal flora of the elderly in 
countries across Europe. Ensuing results will constitute a baseline for 
functional-food based strategies aimed at providing health benefits for the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/s1590-8658(02)80158-x
PMID: 12408434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 2002;(236):4-8. doi:
10.1080/003655202320621373.

Surveillance in Barrett's oesophagus: a critical reappraisal.

Craanen ME(1), Blok P, Meijer GA, Meuwissen SG.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology,Vrije Universiteit Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. me.craanen@vumc.nl

Comment in
    Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 2002;(236):9-14.

BACKGROUND: Current recommendations are for endoscopic surveillance of patients 
with Barrett's oesophagus to detect dysplasia and to diagnose carcinoma at an 
early and possibly treatable stage. However, observations suggest that these 
current practice guidelines are thwarted by many factors often not taken into 
account. These observations stem from general surveillance aspects as well from 
specific data on Barrett's oesophagus. This review therefore aims at discussing 
data on the current surveillance strategy in conjunction with general 
surveillance aspects relevant for their interpretation.
METHODS: Literature survey of published articles.
RESULTS: A critical reappraisal of the literature shows that the current 
surveillance strategy is hampered by multiple problems with the marker 
dysplasia, cost-ineffectiveness, an overrated cancer risk and an astonishing 
lack of prospective, randomized data showing a clear benefit in terms of a 
greater life expectancy. Moreover, the decisive study is unlikely ever to be 
performed because of the large number of patients needed and the required length 
of follow-up. As a result, protocols are being carried out that have never been 
critically tested prior to large-scale clinical implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Although these findings should not lead to therapeutic nihilism, 
the data raise the issue of whether or not surveillance protocols should be 
restricted to specialized referral centres with particular research efforts 
aimed at improving existing and developing new techniques that lack most of the 
described pitfalls and problems. Since it is foreseen that matters will not 
change rapidly in the (near) future, the clinician has no other choice than to 
rely on individually tailored arguments to survey taking into account for 
example family history, age and anxiety about potential long-term effects.

DOI: 10.1080/003655202320621373
PMID: 12408496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2002 Oct;37(10):1212-9. doi:
10.1080/003655202760373443.

Benefit of population-based screening for phenotypic hemochromatosis in young 
men.

Asberg A(1), Tretli S, Hveem K, Bjerve KS.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clinical Chemistry, Trondheim University Hospital, Norway. 
arne.asberg@rit.no

BACKGROUND: Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common genetic disease leading 
to accumulation of iron in the body, most notably in the liver. More men than 
women become clinically ill. The prognosis is excellent if phlebotomy treatment 
is started before liver cirrhosis develops. Screening has been recommended, but 
the benefit of population-based screening has never been shown in a randomized 
clinical trial. In this article, we estimate the benefit of screening young men, 
using a theoretical model.
METHODS: A phenotypic screening scenario was modelled using a decision tree. 
Gain of quality-adjusted life-years was used as a measure of benefit, and 
estimated using Markov processes. Data on the accuracy of the screening tests, 
the prevalence of HH and the risk of liver cirrhosis were mainly derived from a 
cross-sectional study on the prevalence and morbidity of HH in 30509 men. Data 
on the excess mortality of cirrhosis were taken from relevant literature. 
Sensitivity analysis was done for important variables.
RESULTS: Assuming basal case values for variables, screening a cohort of 1000 
men aged 30 years for phenotypic HH would gain about 8 quality-adjusted 
life-years, compared to awaiting symptomatic disease. Based on actual costs of 
our cross-sectional study, the screening cost was US$250 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. The prevalence of phenotypic HH, the excess mortality of liver 
cirrhosis, the quality of life in non-cirrhotic HH patients, and the fractions 
of patients compliant with treatment were the most important variables in the 
sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION: Incorporating screening for phenotypic HH in health survey 
programmes for young men may be worthwhile.

DOI: 10.1080/003655202760373443
PMID: 12408528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Lancet Infect Dis. 2002 Nov;2(11):659-66. doi:
10.1016/s1473-3099(02)00437-1.

Ageing and infection.

Gavazzi G(1), Krause KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2002 Nov;2(11):655.

Average life expectancy throughout developed countries has rapidly increased 
during the latter half of the 20th century and geriatric infectious diseases 
have become an increasingly important issue. Infections in the elderly are not 
only more frequent and more severe, but they also have distinct features with 
respect to clinical presentation, laboratory results, microbial epidemiology, 
treatment, and infection control. Reasons for increased susceptibility include 
epidemiological elements, immunosenescence, and malnutrition, as well as a large 
number of age-associated physiological and anatomical alterations. Moreover, 
ageing may be the cause of infection but infection can also be the cause of 
