ageing. Mechanisms may include enhanced inflammation, pathogen-dependent tissue 
destruction, or accelerated cellular ageing through increased turnover. In most 
instances, treatment of infection leads to a satisfactory outcome in the 
elderly. However, in palliative care situations and in patients with terminal 
dementia, the decision whether or not to treat an infectious disease is becoming 
a difficult ethical issue.

DOI: 10.1016/s1473-3099(02)00437-1
PMID: 12409046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Dec;55(12):2149-58. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00358-6.

The role of adaptation to disability and disease in health state valuation: a 
preliminary normative analysis.

Menzel P(1), Dolan P, Richardson J, Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, WA 98447, USA. menzept@plu.edu

Chronically ill and disabled patients generally rate the value of their lives in 
a given health state more highly than do hypothetical patients imagining 
themselves to be in such states. Much of this difference may be due to actual 
patients' adaptation to their health states, a phenomenon that would not 
typically affect the ratings of persons who only hypothetically imagine 
themselves to be patients. This article pursues a non-empirical, normative 
question: does such adaptation render actual patients' ratings of quality of 
life morally questionable for purposes of resource allocation? Distinguishing 
the different basic elements in patient adaptation reveals why, and in what 
respects, people are pulled strongly in opposite directions in responding to 
this question. Several more explicit moral arguments against using adapted 
patients' ratings have been articulated by economists and philosophers, and 
others are developed by the authors. While most of these arguments do not 
survive careful analysis, several do. Given the subsequent complexity of the 
matter, it is argued that: (1) Neither solely actual nor solely hypothetical 
patient perspectives should be used for rating quality of life. (2) Even if 
representatives of the general public acting as hypothetical patients provide 
ultimately the best perspective from which to discern societal values about 
health states, patients' values that are often influenced by adaptation must 
still be conveyed to and clearly understood by public representatives as a 
critically important fact about health-related quality of life. The article also 
points to the need for much additional work on adaptation, both empirical 
research and normative analysis.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00358-6
PMID: 12409128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Dec;55(12):2177-88. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00361-6.

Determinants of and inequalities in self-perceived health in Ukraine.

Gilmore AB(1), McKee M, Rose R.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, WC1E 7HT, London, UK. 
anna.gilmore@lshtm.ac.uk

Ukraine is the second most populous of the former Soviet Republics and since 
transition its economy has fared even more poorly than Russia. Although the 
impact of the collapse of the former Soviet Union on health in Russia has been 
investigated, little is known of its impact in other post-Soviet republics. We 
report a cross-sectional study undertaken in Ukraine in March 2000. A 
multi-stage random sampling technique was used and 1600 interviews completed 
(72% response rate) with a representative national sample of Ukrainian adults. 
We investigated socioeconomic and psychosocial determinants of self-perceived 
health, which has been shown to be a valid and reliable measure of overall 
health and predictive of mortality. Odds ratios for less than good physical 
health were calculated using logistic regression. The self-rated health of 
Ukrainians was poor, 25% of men and 43% of women rated their health as poor or 
very poor. This is worse than levels recorded in Russia and considerably worse 
than levels seen in western Europe. Marked gender, geographical and 
socioeconomic inequalities in health were recorded. Women are at increased risk 
of poor self-rated health compared with men (OR 3.58, 2.50-5.14) as are women 
living in villages compared with those in cities (OR 3.24, 1.30-8.07). 
Socioeconomic factors including poor material situation (OR 1.64, 1.01-2.67), 
and psychosocial factors including low control over life (OR 1.89, 1.15-3.11) 
were identified as independent health determinants. Control over life was found 
to account for the negative impact of low social position on health. Good family 
relations protected against poor health. The findings suggest that a decrease in 
control, arising from an increasingly uncertain political and economic 
environment, a reduction in material wealth and the stress of change may all 
have contributed to the decline in life expectancy seen with transition.

Copyright 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(01)00361-6
PMID: 12409131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Soc Sci Med. 2002 Dec;55(12):2267-82. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00060-6.

Using the DATCAP and ASI to estimate the costs and benefits of residential 
addiction treatment in the State of Washington.

French MT(1), Salom√© HJ, Carney M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Health Services Research Center 
(D93), University of Miami, 1801 NW 9th Avenue, Third Floor, Miami, FL 33136, 
USA. mfrench@miami.edu

Funding agencies and policy makers often criticize residential addiction 
treatment because the cost of residential services is typically higher than for 
outpatient services and it is unclear whether the outcomes are significantly 
better for most clients. To address these concerns, proponents of residential 
treatment require economic evidence to justify further investments in this 
modality over less intensive and less costly options. Recent studies have 
developed methods and empirical guidelines for using the drug abuse treatment 
cost analysis program (DATCAP) and the addiction severity index (ASI) in a 
comprehensive economic evaluation of addiction treatment. The present study 
applied these methods and guidelines to estimate the economic costs and benefits 
of residential addiction treatment at five programs in the State of Washington, 
USA that serve publicly funded clients. Program- and client-specific economic 
cost estimates were derived using data collected on-site with the DATCAP along 
with opportunity cost estimates associated with treatment attendance. Economic 
benefits were calculated from client self-reported information at treatment 
entry and at 6 months post discharge using the ASI. Outcome categories included 
inpatient services, employment, medical and psychiatric conditions, and criminal 
activity. Results indicate that average weekly economic cost of treatment 
services at the five programs ranged from 463 dollars to 703 dollars. Average 
(per client) economic cost of treatment was 4912 dollars (composed of 3650 
dollars in program cost and 1262 dollars in client cost) for all subjects that 
completed both a baseline and follow-up questionnaire (N = 222; 82%). Average 
(per client) total economic benefit was 21,329 dollars, leading to estimates of 
16,418 dollars for average net benefit and 4.34 for the benefit-cost ratio. 
Total and net economic benefits were significantly related to gender, race, 
religious preference, and baseline ASI composite scores for drug use and legal 
status. A detailed sensitivity analysis did not alter the qualitative findings. 
This study provides conclusive evidence that, for this sample of programs in 
Washington State, the economic benefits of residential addiction treatment 
significantly exceeded the economic costs. Although the results are not 
necessarily generalizable to private-paying clients or clients from other States 
in the US, the methods are based on widely used data collection instruments and 
well-accepted economic principles. Thus, extensions of this research to other 
clients, States, and modalities should be feasible and straightforward.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00060-6
PMID: 12409139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Pediatr Res. 2002 Nov;52(5):656-9. doi: 10.1203/00006450-200211000-00009.

Shift of serum osteocalcin components between cord blood and blood at day 5 of 
life.

Shimizu N(1), Shima M, Hirai H, Nakajima S, Nishimura K, Yamaoka K, Okada S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Medicine (Pediatrics), Osaka University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.

Vitamin K deficiency is a relatively common condition in neonates. However, the 
role of vitamin K in neonatal bone metabolism remains to be determined. 
Osteocalcin (OC) is the most abundant noncollagenous protein in bone, and is 
regulated to be gamma-carboxylated by vitamin K. In this study, we measured 
gamma-carboxylated osteocalcin (Gla-OC) and non- or undercarboxylated 
osteocalcin (Glu-OC) separately, and examined the effects of vitamin K on 
osteocalcin metabolism. Eighteen full-term healthy neonates were enrolled in 
this study. In the cord and d-5 blood samples, the OC levels were determined by 
three different methods to examine the intact OC by immunoradiometric assay 
(IRMA), Gla-OC, and Glu-OC. Serum vitamin K fractions, hepaplastin test, and 
type 1 procollagen carboxyl extension peptide were also determined. Urine 
samples were also collected from the first voiding and on d 5 to determine 
urinary pyridinoline, deoxypyridinoline, and gamma-carboxylated glutamic acid. 
Serum levels of phylloquinone (PK) and menaquinone (MK)-4 increased on d 5 
following vitamin K administration and increased intake in breast milk and/or 
formula. The OC levels determined by IRMA did not change between cord and d-5 
blood samples, but the Gla-OC level increased remarkably and Glu-OC reduced to a 
negligible level. OC in cord blood is mainly Glu-OC, and Glu-OC is replaced with 
Gla-OC within 5 d of life after vitamin K supplement. The IRMA assay fails to 
distinguish Gla-OC from Glu-OC and caution is needed to estimate bone turnover 
with this method in the perinatal period.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-200211000-00009
PMID: 12409510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Radiology. 2002 Nov;225(2):337-44. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2252011687.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms: cost-effectiveness of elective endovascular and open 
surgical repair.

Bosch JL(1), Kaufman JA, Beinfeld MT, Adriaensen ME, Brewster DC, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Zero Emerson Pl, Suite 2H, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
johanna@the-data-group.org

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of elective endovascular and open 
surgical repair of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) by taking into 
account short- and long-term outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov decision model was developed to evaluate 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and lifetime costs of endovascular and open 
surgical repair. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (CER) was calculated 
for endovascular repair relative to open surgery in a cohort of 70-year-old men 
with an AAA between 5 and 6 cm in diameter. Clinically effectiveness data were 
derived from the literature. Cost data were derived from Medicare reimbursement 
rates, the hospital database, and the literature. One- and multiple-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed on uncertain model parameters. Costs were 
converted to year 2000 U.S. dollars; future costs and outcomes were discounted 
at 3%.
RESULTS: The incremental CER of endovascular repair was 9,905 dollars per QALY. 
QALYs and lifetime costs were higher for endovascular repair than for open 
surgery (6.74 vs 6.52 and 39,785 dollars vs 37,606 dollars, respectively). In 
sensitivity analyses, the incremental CER was insensitive to immediate 
conversion rate and procedure mortality rate. The incremental CER was sensitive 
(ie, more than 75,000 dollars per QALY or endovascular repair was ruled out by 
dominance) to systemic-remote complications, long-term failures, and ruptures.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that endovascular repair is a cost-effective 
alternative compared with open surgery for the elective repair of AAA. The 
benefits and cost-effectiveness are highly dependent on uncertain outcomes, 
however, particularly long-term failure and rupture rates.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2252011687
PMID: 12409564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Nov;50(11):1886-901. doi: 
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50521.x.

The development of outpatient Clinical Glidepaths.

Flaherty JH(1), Morley JE, Murphy DJ, Wasserman MR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Saint Louis University Medical Center, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63104, USA. Flaherty@slu.edu

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2002 Nov;50(11):1905-6.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2004 Apr;52(4):651; author reply 651-2.

For clinicians who are struggling with the complexities of medical 
decision-making, practice guidelines and evidence-based medicine (EBM) have 
become increasingly popular and have potential to positively influence the 
practice of medicine. Nevertheless, they have their limitations. Guidelines are 
often rigid, based solely on age, and usually do not take into account a 
patient's comorbidities, life expectancy, and nonmedical preferences. EBM 
studies may not always include particular patient populations commonly seen by 
the geriatric clinician (e.g., studies on lipid-lowering agents or 
antihypertensive drug usually exclude the very old or patients who are frail, 
demented, or at the end of life). These limitations have made it difficult for 
geriatric clinicians to use these guidelines because of the need to 
individualize evaluation and treatment approaches and take into account the 
varied preferences of their older patients. The purpose of this paper is to 
present an alternative model of care for geriatric clinicians called The 
Clinical Glidepaths. The Clinical Glidepaths are outpatient tools intended to 
assist geriatric clinicians in their decision-making process. They are based on 
the following principles. (1) Clinicians need guidance concerning many different 
types of patients, not rigid guidelines based solely on age. (2) EBM should be 
used but has some limitations of which to be aware. (3) Clinical experience, 
which emphasizes individual outcomes instead of populations, is an important 
component of medical decisions. (4) There needs to be room for patient 
preferences in medical decision-making. (5) An approach to patients based on 
probable life expectancy and function, instead of age, will be more applicable 
and useful. (6) Making a useful tool will focus on common problems seen in every 
day geriatric practices.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2002.50521.x
PMID: 12410913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2002 Jun;23(3):194-7.

[Study on the life expectancy of residents in Xinjiang Production and 
Construction Group, from 1997 to 1999].

[Article in Chinese]

Li F(1), Chen C, Liu W.

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease Control, Xinjiang Production and Construction Group, 
Urumqi 830002, China.

OBJECTIVE: To understand the life expectancy of residents in Xinjiang production 
and Construction Group, from 1997 to 1999.
METHODS: Stratified cluster sampling method was used to obtain mortality rate, 
sequence of death causes, life expectancy, life eliminated major cause of 
deaths, years of potential life lost (YPLL) and level of long life. These 
indeices were used to compare and analyze health status on residents in the 
area.
RESULTS: The life expectancy on residents in the area was 75.61 years old for 
all residents, 72.73 years old for males, 80.02 years old for females from 1997 
to 1999. The life expectancy for people living in agricultural and livestock 
farms was lower (73.97 years old). It was found that life expectancy was 
parallel to the level of economy. Life expectancy of northern residents was 
higher than those living in the southern and eastern parts of the area. The 
annual average mortality rate of the residents was 5.17 per thousand (standard 
mortality rate 4.02 per thousand ). The sequence of major causes of death was 
shown as below: malignant tumors, cerebrovascular diseases, respiratory system 
diseases, cardiac diseases, accidental deaths, infectious diseases, certain 
conditions originated in the perinatal period. In the life eliminated major 
cause of deaths, respiratory system diseases and certain conditions originated 
in the perinatal period were higher than others. In both sequences of YPLL and 
SYPLL for major causes of death, accidental death was always in the leading 
place. There was a higher longevity on residents from the better economic area.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher life expectancy in the area was noticed, but the differences 
among the different area were bigger. In order to improve the level of health on 
all residents in the area, it is necessary to strengthen the administration on 
social and natural environment of the area. Furthermore, decreasing accidental 
deaths, controlling respiratory system diseases (especially for infant) and 
improving health care of infants in perinatal period are very important tasks in 
the area.

PMID: 12411088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. BMJ. 2002 Nov 2;325(7371):985. doi: 10.1136/bmj.325.7371.985.

Simple measures could increase life expectancy by 5-10 years.

Dyer O.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.325.7371.985
PMCID: PMC1124540
PMID: 12411335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Cancer. 2002 Nov 15;95(10):2112-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.10941.

The diagnostic accuracy of the age-adjusted and prostate volume-adjusted biopsy 
method in males with prostate specific antigen levels of 4.1-10.0 ng/mL.

Ito K(1), Ohi M, Yamamoto T, Miyamoto S, Kurokawa K, Fukabori Y, Suzuki K, 
Yamanaka H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Gunma University School of Medicine, Maebashi, Japan. 
k.ito@azr.nl

BACKGROUND: The authors evaluated a new age-adjusted and prostate 
volume-adjusted biopsy method for the detection of prostate carcinoma through 
the transperineal and the transrectal approaches in men with PSA levels of 
4.1-10.0 ng/mL.
METHODS: The value of the adjusted biopsy method was calculated by using the 
following four factors: 1) life expectancy in Japanese men in 1998, 2) prostate 
volume estimated by transrectal ultrasonography, 3) tumor doubling time (4 
years), and 4) tumor volume that influenced death (20 cc). The number of biopsy 
sites was set at 8-20. Between August, 1999 and December, 2001, 100 men age <or= 
79 years with prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels of 4.1-10.0 ng/mL underwent 
age-adjusted and volume-adjusted, systematic prostate biopsy.
RESULTS: The detection rate for the adjusted biopsy method was 46% (46 of 100 
men). The clinical stage of prostate carcinoma was Stage II in 85% of patients 
and Stage III in 15% of patients. If routine six-sextant biopsy had been 
performed in all of the men who underwent adjusted systematic biopsy, then 15 of 
46 patients (33%) with prostate carcinoma would have been missed. The detection 
rates of prostate carcinoma in men who underwent adjusted biopsies were 
relatively high, especially in men with PSA levels of 6.1-10.0 ng/mL, men age 
<or= 64 years, men with prostate volumes >or= 50 cc, and men with PSA density 
(PSAD) levels <or= 0.15 ng/mL/cc compared with the detection rates from 
six-sextant and directed biopsies. The high detection rates were observed from 
biopsy sites at the posterior aspect of the lateral lobe through both the 
transperineal approach and the transrectal approach and at the anterior aspect 
of the transition zone through the transperineal approach.
CONCLUSIONS: The age-adjusted and prostate volume-adjusted prostate biopsy 
method was more useful for detecting clinically significant disease compared 
with the traditional six-sextant biopsy method. This adjusted biopsy method was 
especially useful in patients age <or= 64 years, patients with large prostate 
volumes (>/= 50 cc), and patients with PSAD levels <or= 0.15 ng/mL/cc. The 
authors recommend that patients undergo an additional transition zone biopsy at 
the anterior aspect through the transperineal approach.

Copyright 2002 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.10941
PMID: 12412164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Pediatr Dent. 2002 Sep-Oct;24(5):448-55.

The use of amalgam in pediatric dentistry.

Fuks AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Hebrew University, Hadassah School of 
Dental Medicine, Jerusalem, Israel. fuks@cc.huji.ac.il

Amalgam has been widely utilized to restore posterior teeth in pediatric 
dentistry, and is still taught as the material of choice for Class I and Class 
II restorations in many dental schools in the United States and Canada. Results 
of clinical trials are difficult to compare due to their heterogenicity, mainly 
due to differences in caries risk, operator skills, study duration, or patients' 
age. Thus, the different studies report failure rates of amalgams ranging from 
12% to over 70%. Treatment of caries should meet the needs of each particular 
patient, based on his/her caries risk. In general, for small occlusal lesions, a 
conservative preventive resin restoration, using composite or compomer in 
conjunction with sealant, would be more appropriate than the classic Class I 
amalgam preparation. For proximal lesions, amalgam would be indicated for 
2-surface Class II preparations that do not extend beyond the line angles of 
primary teeth. This recommendation might not be appropriate for high-risk 
patients or for restoring first primary molars in children 4 years of age and 
younger where stainless steel crowns have demonstrated better longevity. 
Currently, amalgam demonstrates the best clinical success for Class II 
restorations that extend beyond the proximal line angles of permanent molars.

PMID: 12412959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2002 Oct;26(5):443-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00345.x.

Towards a standardised methodology for estimating alcohol-caused death, injury 
and illness in Australia.

Chikritzhs T(1), Stockwell T, Jonas H, Stevenson C, Cooper-Stanbury M, Donath S, 
Single E, Catalano P.

Author information:
(1)National Drug Research Institute, Western Australia, Perth. 
tanya@ndri.curtin.edu.au

Two key methodological issues underlying different methods for calculating 
estimates of the number of alcohol-caused deaths are identified and 
recommendations suggested for future work. 1. How to adjust alcohol aetiologic 
fractions across time and place to reflect different levels of risky drinking. A 
common approach is outlined for both acute and chronic alcohol-related 
conditions. In the absence of consistent, reliable and regionally specific 
measures of the prevalence of risky alcohol consumption from national surveys, 
the use of per capita consumption data as a means of adjusting alcohol 
population aetiologic fractions over time and across regions is recommended. 2. 
Whether abstainers or low-risk drinkers should be used as the reference group 
when assessing the impact of alcohol consumption and how the resulting 
information is best presented. It is recommended that when abstainers are used 
as the reference group, the costs and benefits for both 'low-risk' and 
'risky/high-risk' drinking should be identified. Using this approach, it was 
estimated that for Australia in 1998 there was a net benefit of 5,100 lives 
saved due to low-risk drinking, while there was a net loss of 2,737 lives due to 
risky/high-risk drinking. On its own, the figure of a net saving of 2,363 lives 
per year is a simplistic and potentially misleading picture of alcohol as a net 
benefit to public health and safety. For public health communications, there is 
still value in providing estimates using the low-risk drinking contrast, of the 
number of lives saved if risky/high-risk drinkers all became low-risk drinkers 
(n = 3,292 in 1998). The use of the abstinence contrast, however, allows the 
more complex picture of alcohol's impact on public health to be apparent, e.g. 
including the estimated 1,505 deaths associated with low-risk drinking (mostly 
from cancer).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00345.x
PMID: 12413289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2002 Oct;26(5):468-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00349.x.

Socio-economic position and height in early adulthood.

Turrell G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Queensland University of Technology, Kelvin Grove. 
g.turrell@qut.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relationship between socio-economic position and 
height in early adulthood.
METHOD: A representative probability sample of Australian households (part of 
the 1995 National Health Survey). Data were collected by face-to-face 
interviews. Socio-economic position was measured using occupation and family 
income. Participants comprised 9,577 Australian-born males and females aged 
20-24 (n = 3,186), 25-29 (n = 3,184), and 30-34 (n = 3,207). Height was 
self-reported and operationalised in terms of mean height and 'short' stature 
(defined as 1 SD below mean height for each sex-age subgroup).
RESULTS: Graded, positive associations were found between occupation, family 
income, and height for males and females in each age cohort. Among males, mean 
height differences between blue-collar employees and professionals were 1.1 cm 
to 1.5 cm (depending on age-cohort), and for females, 1.6 cm to 2.1 cm. The 
corresponding height differences for males and females living in the least and 
most affluent families were 1.6 cm to 2.3 cm, and 1.0 cm to 2.5 cm, 
respectively. Persons in blue-collar jobs and those in low-income families were 
more likely to be classified as 'short'.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Estimates of mortality risk associated with short 
stature suggest that these height differences translate to about a 2-5% 
increased risk of death for the most disadvantaged groups. Given that 
socioeconomic height differences in adulthood have their genesis in the 
formative stages of biological and social development, public health 
intervention efforts need to focus on early life exposures and environments. The 
greatest reduction in height inequalities, and by extension health inequalities, 
is likely to flow from macro-level public policies to alleviate poverty and 
minimise the social and economic divide.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.2002.tb00349.x
PMID: 12413293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2002 Nov;23(11):527-34. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-6147(02)02093-x.

Estrogen and cognitive aging in women.

Sherwin BB(1).

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Dept of Psychology, 1205 Dr Penfield Ave, Quebec, H3X 1B1, 
Montreal, Canada. bsherwin@ego.psych.mcgill.ca

The steady increase in female life expectancy has attracted attention to the 
importance of preventing cognitive aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in women. 
Evidence from randomized, controlled trials and from cross-sectional and 
longitudinal studies shows that estrogen-replacement therapy preferentially 
protects against a decline in verbal memory in healthy postmenopausal women and 
decreases the risk of AD. Although results are not consistent across studies, 
they indicate that treatment with estrogen during the postmenopausal years might 
protect against cognitive aging in women during the latter part of their life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-6147(02)02093-x
PMID: 12413808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Nat Rev Cancer. 2002 Nov;2(11):873-9. doi: 10.1038/nrc930.

Quality of life: a new perspective for cancer patients.

Fallowfield L(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychosocial Oncology Group at Brighton and Sussex Medical School, University 
of Sussex, Falmer, East Sussex BN1 9QG, UK. L.Fallowfield@biols.susx.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1038/nrc930
PMID: 12415257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Mt Sinai J Med. 2002 Oct;69(5):291-8.

The small world of global health.

Koplan JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

This article is based on the Solomon Berson lecture, delivered by Dr. Koplan in 
January 2000. In his remarks, Dr. Koplan discussed the current status of global 
health and projected trends in three categories: communicable diseases, risk 
factors for disease, and selected diseases and health conditions. Reflecting on 
differences in health issues in the 30 years since he left Mount Sinai, Dr. 
Koplan pointed out that the health problems of developed and developing nations 
are strikingly similar now which also means they are amenable to similar 
interventions.

PMID: 12415322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Surg Endosc. 2003 Feb;17(2):180-9. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8849-z. Epub 2002
Nov  6.

A cost--utility analysis of treatment options for inguinal hernia in 1,513,008 
adult patients.

Stylopoulos N(1), Gazelle GS, Rattner DW.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The controversial issue of the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic 
inguinal hernia repair is examined, employing a decision analytic method.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The NSAS, NHDS (National Center for Health Statistics), 
HCUP-NIS (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) databases and 51 
randomized controlled trials were analyzed. The study group constituted of a 
total of 1,513,008 hernia repairs. Projection of the clinical, economic, and 
quality-of-life outcomes expected from the different treatment options was done 
by using a Markov Monte Carlo decision model. Two logistic regression models 
were used to predict the probability of hospital admission after an ambulatory 
procedure and the probability of death after inguinal hernia repair. Four 
treatment strategies were modeled: (1) laparoscopic repair (LR), (2) open mesh 
(OM), (3) open non-mesh (ONM), and (4) expectant management. Costs were 
expressed in US dollars and effectiveness in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). The main outcome measures were the average and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness (ICER) ratios.
RESULTS: Compared to the expectant management, the incremental cost per QALY 
gained was 605 dollars (4086 dollars, 9.04 QALYs) for LR, 697 dollars (4290 
dollars, 8.975 QALYs) for OM, and 1711 dollars (6200 dollars, 8.546 QALYs) for 
ONM. In sensitivity analysis the two major components that affect the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of the different types of repair were the ambulatory 
facility cost and the recurrence rate. At a LR ambulatory facility cost of 5526 
dollars the ICER of LR compared to OM surpasses the threshold of 50,000 
dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of our assumptions this mathematical model shows that 
from a societal perspective laparoscopic approach can be a cost-effective 
treatment option for inguinal hernia repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8849-z
PMID: 12415334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Int J Hematol. 2002 Oct;76(3):219-28. doi: 10.1007/BF02982791.

Iron toxicity and chelation therapy.

Britton RS(1), Leicester KL, Bacon BR.

Author information:
(1)brittonr@slu.edu

Iron is an essential mineral for normal cellular physiology, but an excess can 
result in cell injury. Iron in low-molecular-weight forms may play a catalytic 
role in the initiation of free radical reactions. The resulting oxyradicals have 
the potential to damage cellular lipids, nucleic acids, proteins, and 
carbohydrates; the result is wide-ranging impairment in cellular function and 
integrity. The rate of free radical production must overwhelm the cytoprotective 
defenses of cells before injury occurs. There is substantial evidence that iron 
overload in experimental animals can result in oxidative damage to lipids in 
vivo, once the concentration of iron exceeds a threshold level. In the liver, 
this lipid peroxidation is associated with impairment of membrane-dependent 
functions of mitochondria and lysosomes. Iron overload impairs hepatic 
mitochondrial respiration primarily through a decrease in cytochrome C oxidase 
activity, and hepatocellular calcium homeostasis may be compromised through 
damage to mitochondrial and microsomal calcium sequestration. DNA has also been 
reported to be a target of iron-induced damage, and this may have consequences 
in regard to malignant transformation. Mitochondrial respiratory enzymes and 
plasma membrane enzymes such as sodium-potassium-adenosine triphosphatase (Na(+) 
+ K(+)-ATPase) may be key targets of damage by non-transferrin-bound iron in 
cardiac myocytes. Levels of some antioxidants are decreased during iron 
overload, a finding suggestive of ongoing oxidative stress. Reduced cellular 
levels of ATP, lysosomal fragility, impaired cellular calcium homeostasis, and 
damage to DNA all may contribute to cellular injury in iron overload. Evidence 
is accumulating that free-radical production is increased in patients with iron 
overload. Iron-loaded patients have elevated plasma levels of thiobarbituric 
acid reactants and increased hepatic levels of aldehyde-protein adducts, 
indicating lipid peroxidation. Hepatic DNA of iron-loaded patients shows 
evidence of damage, including mutations of the tumor suppressor gene p53. 
Although phlebotomy therapy is effective in removing excess iron in hereditary 
hemochromatosis, chelation therapy is required in the treatment of many patients 
who have combined secondary and transfusional iron overload due to disorders in 
erythropoiesis. In patients with beta-thalassemia who undergo regular 
transfusions, deferoxamine treatment has been shown to be effective in 
preventing iron-induced tissue injury and in prolonging life expectancy. The use 
of the oral chelator deferiprone remains controversial, and work is continuing 
on the development of new orally effective iron chelators.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982791
PMID: 12416732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2002 Nov-Dec;11(6):352. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.01319.x.

Atrial fibrillation in the elderly--a near epidemic.

Camm AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Cardiology, St. Georges Hospital Medical School, 
London, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.01319.x
PMID: 12417839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Am J Geriatr Cardiol. 2002 Nov-Dec;11(6):357-62; quiz 363-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.00070.x.

Atrial fibrillation in the elderly: anticoagulation strategies and indications 
in the very elderly.

Kamath S(1), Lip GY.

Author information:
(1)Hemostasis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology Unit, University Department of 
Medicine, City Hospital, Birmingham B18 7QH, England.

With increasing life expectancy and the older mean age of the general 
population, the prevalence of atrial fibrillation is likely to increase, making 
this arrhythmia an even more important public health problem, especially in the 
elderly. While atrial fibrillation is increasingly common in the elderly, 
paradoxically, the data on intervention trials in atrial fibrillation among the 
elderly are limited. When considering anticoagulation in the elderly patient 
with atrial fibrillation, the following five questions should be addressed. 1) 
Is there a definite indication (for example, atrial fibrillation plus risk 
factor[s])? 2) Is there a high risk of bleeding or strong contraindication 
against anticoagulation? 3) Will concurrent medication or disease states 
significantly increase bleeding risk or interfere with anticoagulation control? 
4) Is drug compliance and attendance at anticoagulant clinic for monitoring 
likely to be a problem? 5) Will there be regular review of the patient, 
especially with regard to risks and benefits of anticoagulation? Careful and 
continuing evaluation of the elderly patient with atrial fibrillation is 
necessary to ensure that the risks of bleeding do not outweigh the benefits from 
anticoagulation.

Copyright 2002 CVRR, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1076-7460.2002.00070.x
PMID: 12417841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2002 Sep;58(2):135-9.

[Integrated models between hospital and field for patients with heart failure].

[Article in Italian]

Di Lenarda A(1), Sabbadini G, Sinagra G.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Complessa Cardiologia, Ospedale Maggiore, Trieste.

Chronic heart failure is a major health problem, which is growing parallel to 
the increasing proportion of elderly in the population. Recurrent 
hospitalizations occur in about half of the subjects within 6 months after the 
initial admission. Several co-morbidities usually coexist in these patients and 
influence resource utilization and outcome. The high re-admission rates and low 
proportion of patients who are currently enrolled in specific follow-up programs 
underscore the existing pitfalls in outpatient care, and the lack of 
co-operation between hospital departments and out-of-hospital clinics or general 
practitioners. As a consequence, up to half of the hospital admissions may be 
caused by potentially preventable factors. As worldwide health-care 
cost-containment escalates, it becomes crucial to develop new cost-effective 
strategies to improve the quality of care of more severe patients. The 
implementation of clinic-based heart failure programs showed some evidence of an 
improvement in functional status and in the frequency of hospital readmissions. 
However, patients referred to Heart Failure Clinics represent a selected 
population of patients compared to the overall population of "real-world" 
elderly patients with incapacitating symptoms, serious co-morbidities and 
frequent inability to attend an outpatient clinic. Few trials are currently 
available to verify the efficacy of a clinic-based approach in such patients, 
with discordant results. Other studies have extended the multidisciplinary 
program to the patient's home. These strategies might be particularly 
appropriate and cost-effective if targeted to elderly and higher-risk patients, 
and appear to be of particular relevance given the phenomenon of progressive 
aging of the general population. The results of our intensive, nurse-monitored, 
homecare surveillance on quality of life and hospitalization rate in elderly 
patients with refractory heart failure who previously failed to reach the goal 
of clinical stability with a clinic-based program extend the effectiveness of 
heart failure programs, in terms of quality of life and hospital readmission, to 
terminally ill subjects with short life expectancy and very high resource 
utilization.

PMID: 12418428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Public Health Rev. 2001;29(2-4):93-107; discussion 107-9.

Women's health in perspective: progressing or regressing?

Kornitzer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Promotion, Free University of Brussels, 
School of Public Health.

PMID: 12418700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Public Health Rev. 2001;29(2-4):231-40.

To screen or not to screen: the issue of breast cancer screening in older women.

Caplan LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine, Morehouse School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30315, USA. lcaplan@msm.edu

INTRODUCTION: The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 
recommends that women aged 50-69 receive timely breast cancer screening, but 
does not make a recommendation for women aged 70 and older. Our purpose is to 
assess the relationship between age and breast cancer screening trends, and to 
consider the issue of breast cancer screening of women 70 years of age and older 
in light of demographics, disease burden, life expectancy, and activity level.
METHODS: Data were analyzed from the state-based Behvioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) and the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) on 
breast cancer screening practices and activity limitation status of women 50 and 
older.
RESULTS: The percentage of women who reported receiving mammography and clinical 
breast examination within two years was lower among older women compared with 
younger women, and the gap has widened over time. In 1991-92, 61.4% of women 
50-69 received screening within two years, compared to 49.5% of women 70 and 
above, while in 1997-98, the percentages were 71.1 and 56.7, respectively. Among 
both age groups and in both time periods, those unable to perform a major 
activity of daily living were less likely to report receiving mammography within 
two years than those with no limitation, and the gap was much wider in the 
elderly. Most (62.7%) women 70 and older reported having no activity limitation; 
only 5.5% reported being unable to perform a major activity.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest that elderly women are less likely than 
younger women to receive timely breast cancer screening. The USPSTF does not 
recommend continued screening in elderly women because most studies of breast 
cancer efficacy included inadequate numbers of these women. Few, if any, studies 
have yielded evidence that screening is ineffective in women 70 and over. Given 
the higher breast cancer incidence and mortality seen in elderly women, as well 
as the increased life expectancy with little or no activity limitation seen 
among today's elderly, consideration should be given to including elderly women 
in the recommendation to receive timely breast cancer screening. Since surgical 
and adjuvant therapy for breast cancer in older women has less complications 
than therapy for other cancers of the elderly, the cost-benefit ratio for breast 
cancer screening in this age group may prove to be more promising.

PMID: 12418709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2002 Nov 15;54(4):1160-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)02979-6.

Role of radiotherapy in the treatment of motor dysfunction due to metastatic 
spinal cord compression: comparison of three different fractionation schedules.

Rades D(1), Karstens JH, Alberti W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. 
Rades.Dirk@gmx.net

PURPOSE: The optimum fractionation schedule for radiotherapy (RT) of metastatic 
spinal cord compression (MSCC) is still debated in the literature. Several 
reports have compared different fractionation schedules for pain relief. To our 
knowledge, this retrospective analysis is the first to compare three different 
schedules for functional outcome.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: For posttreatment functional and ambulatory outcome, 
three schedules, 30 Gy in 10 fractions (n = 93), 37.5 Gy in 15 fractions (n = 
80), and 40 Gy in 20 fractions (n = 74), were compared. Motor function was 
evaluated by a 6-point scale before and at the end of RT and 3, 6, and 12 months 
later. A multivariate analysis was performed for functional outcome, including 
fractionation schedule and the three relevant prognostic factors (primary tumor 
type, time of developing motor deficits before RT, and ambulatory status).
RESULTS: No significant difference was observed for posttreatment motor function 
or ambulatory rates among the three schedules. According to the multivariate 
analysis, the radiation schedule had no significant impact on functional outcome 
(p = 0.223) in contrast to the three prognostic factors (p <0.001, p <0.001, and 
p = 0.012).
CONCLUSION: The three fractionation schedules were comparable for functional 
outcome. The least time-consuming schedule (30 Gy in 10 fractions) should be 
considered for patients with a markedly reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)02979-6
PMID: 12419444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Am J Cardiol. 2002 Oct 17;90(8A):77i-84i. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(02)02637-1.

Lipoprotein abnormalities related to women's health.

Bittner V(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.vbittner@cardio.som.uab.edu

Although women have a greater life expectancy than men and tend to develop 
coronary artery disease (CAD) 10 to 20 years later than men, the burden of CAD 
in women is high, with a lifetime risk >20%. Beginning at puberty, women have 
more favorable lipoprotein profiles than men. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) 
cholesterol levels remain higher in women than men throughout their lifetime. 
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels in women exceed those in men 
after middle age, but despite a shift toward smaller, denser LDL particles at 
the time of menopause, LDL particle number remains lower in women than in men 
throughout the lifespan. Lipoprotein levels strongly predict incident and 
recurrent CAD events in both sexes, and LDL particle size may be a better 
predictor of premature CAD in women than of CAD associated with advanced age. 
The effects of postmenopausal hormonal therapy on lipoprotein levels are 
complex, and the benefits of such therapy are not established. In contrast, 
lifestyle changes and pharmacological lipid-lowering therapy have been shown to 
favorably influence the natural course of atherosclerotic disease and reduce 
cardiovascular events in men and women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(02)02637-1
PMID: 12419484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Biol Chem. 2003 Jan 17;278(3):1480-6. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M209395200. Epub
2002  Nov 4.

3-Mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase of Leishmania contains an unusual 
C-terminal extension and is involved in thioredoxin and antioxidant metabolism.

Williams RA(1), Kelly SM, Mottram JC, Coombs GH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infection and Immunity, Institute of Biomedical and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, United Kingdom.

Cytosolic 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferases (EC ) of Leishmania major and 
Leishmania mexicana have been cloned, expressed as active enzymes in Escherichia 
coli, and characterized. The leishmanial single-copy genes predict a 
sulfurtransferase that is structurally peculiar in possessing a C-terminal 
domain of some 70 amino acids. Homologous genes of Trypanosoma cruzi and 
Trypanosoma brucei encode enzymes with a similar C-terminal domain, suggesting 
that this feature, not known in any other sulfurtransferase, is a characteristic 
of trypanosomatid parasites. Short truncations of the C-terminal domain resulted 
in misfolded inactive proteins, demonstrating that the domain plays some key 
role in facilitating correct folding of the enzymes. The leishmanial recombinant 
enzymes exhibited high activity toward 3-mercaptopyruvate and catalyzed the 
transfer of sulfane sulfur to cyanide to form thiocyanate. They also used 
thiosulfate as a substrate and reduced thioredoxin as the accepting nucleophile, 
the latter being oxidized. The enzymes were expressed in all life cycle stages, 
and the expression level was increased under peroxide or hypo-sulfur stress. The 
results are consistent with the enzymes having an involvement in the synthesis 
of sulfur amino acids per se or iron-sulfur centers of proteins and the 
parasite's management of oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M209395200
PMID: 12419809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Hum Hypertens. 2002 Oct;16(10):663-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001457.

Secular trends in cardiovascular disease.

Nadar S(1), Lip GY.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, City Hospital, Birmingham B18 7QH, UK.

Comment on
    J Hum Hypertens. 2002 Oct;16(10):677-89.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1001457
PMID: 12420189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2002 Jul-Sep;65(3):171-5.

Palliative treatment in "peri"-pancreatic carcinoma: stenting or surgical 
therapy?

van Heek NT(1), van Geenen RC, Busch OR, Gouma DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Mostly, patients with peri-pancreatic cancer (including pancreatic, ampullary 
and distal bile duct tumors) are diagnosed in a stage in which curative 
resection is not possible. The median survival rate of patients with non 
resectable peri-pancreatic cancer varies between 6 and 12 months. During this 
period palliative treatment is necessary, which should focus on major symptoms 
as obstructive jaundice, duodenal obstruction and pain. Controversy exists about 
how to provide optimal palliative treatment. Both surgical and non surgical 
palliative procedures relief obstructive jaundice. From early retrospective and 
prospective randomized studies it is known that in the early phase after 
treatment, more complications are found after surgical palliation, whereas in 
the late phase more complications are seen after endoscopic palliation. Because 
more recent studies clearly showed improved results after surgical palliation, 
current recommendations probably should be that patients with a suspected poor 
short-term survival (< 6 months) should be offered non surgical palliative 
therapy and those with a longer life expectancy may best be treated with bypass 
surgery. Unfortunately, valid criteria for estimating the remaining survival 
time are not available, except for the presence of metastases. The use of a 
prognostic score chart might assist in estimating the prognosis. Literature does 
not give sufficient information to make a well deliberated (evidence based) 
selection between the different types of surgical bypasses, but a 
choledochojejunostomy is generally preferred. After stenting, a correlation is 
found between survival and the development of duodenal obstruction, and between 
9% and 21% of the patients who underwent a surgical biliary bypass without a 
prophylactic gastric bypass, will develop gastric outlet obstruction. Therefore, 
in patients with a relatively good prognosis it is recommended to perform 
routinely a double--biliary and gastric--bypass. Pain is a frequent symptom and 
is related with poor survival. Pain management aside from pain medication can be 
performed by means of a celiac plexus blockade or a thorascopic 
splanchnicectomy, and also radiotherapy seems to have a positive result on pain.

PMID: 12420610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Assoc Physicians India. 2002 Aug;50:1057-62.

Pharmacoeconomics.

Sule NS(1), Nerurkar RP, Kamath SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, TN Medical College and BYL Nair Ch. Hospital, 
Mumbai.

Today, spiraling costs of medical care coupled with limited resources have led 
to an explosive increase in the number of pharmacoeconomic analyses being 
carried out. The first step in a pharmacoeconomic analysis is to measure the 
costs and benefits of the therapeutic regimens being compared. Then one compares 
these costs and benefits by calculating a cost: benefit ratio for each regimen. 
Four types of economic analyses are commonly used for this purpose. While cost 
minimization analysis ignores the benefits and focuses only on costs of 
treatment, cost-effectiveness analysis measures costs in monetary terms and 
benefits or outcome in their natural clinical units. Cost benefit analysis on 
the other hand, places monetary values on both-costs and outcome of therapy. 
Finally, cost utility analysis measures costs in monetary terms, and outcome in 
a single utility-based unit of measurement. Utility based measures like quality 
adjusted life-years (QALY) measure the contribution made by the regimens to the 
patient's quality of life. Finally study designs generally used for generating 
data for a pharmacoeconomic analysis are mentioned, and concepts like marginal 
analysis, sensitivity analysis and discounting are explained in the context of 
health economics.

PMID: 12421032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Drugs. 2002;62(17):2493-537. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200262170-00013.

Etanercept: an updated review of its use in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic 
arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

Culy CR(1), Keating GM.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz
