
Etanercept is a subcutaneously administered biological response modifier that 
binds and inactivates tumour necrosis factor-alpha, a proinflammatory cytokine. 
In patients with early active rheumatoid arthritis, etanercept 25mg twice weekly 
was associated with a more rapid improvement in disease activity and a 
significantly greater cumulative response than methotrexate over 12 months of 
treatment in a randomised, double-blind trial. In addition, etanercept 
recipients showed a slower rate of radiographic progression and a more rapid 
improvement in quality of life than methotrexate recipients. The efficacy of 
etanercept was maintained at 3 years' follow-up. Etanercept was also 
significantly better than placebo at reducing disease activity in patients who 
had an inadequate response to previous treatment with disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in several well controlled trials. At study end 
(after 3 or 6 months' treatment), the percentage of patients achieving an 
American College of Rheumatology 20% (ACR20) response with etanercept (25mg or 
16 mg/m(2) twice weekly) was 59 to 75% as monotherapy and 71% in combination 
with methotrexate; corresponding placebo response rates were 11 to 14% and 27%, 
respectively. Response has been maintained in patients who continued treatment 
for up to 5 years. In patients with psoriatic arthritis, etanercept 25mg twice 
weekly significantly reduced disease activity and improved skin lesions in two 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12- to 24-week trials. In the 24-week study, 
ACR20 response rates (50 vs 13%), psoriatic arthritis response rates (70 vs 23%) 
and the median improvement in skin lesions (33 vs 0%) were significantly greater 
in etanercept than in placebo recipients. In patients with polyarticular-course 
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, etanercept resulted in improvements in all 
measures of disease activity and was significantly more effective than placebo 
at reducing disease flare. Eighty percent of patients receiving etanercept 
achieved a >or=30% reduction in disease activity over 7 months of treatment, and 
this was maintained for up to 2 years in a trial extension. Etanercept was 
generally well tolerated in children and adults in clinical trials; the most 
commonly occurring adverse effects included injection site reactions, infection, 
headache, rhinitis and dizziness. In conclusion, etanercept has emerged as an 
important new treatment option in inflammatory arthritis. Etanercept provides 
rapid and sustained improvements in disease activity in patients with early and 
DMARD-refractory rheumatoid arthritis and has been shown to inhibit radiographic 
progression in those with early disease. Well controlled studies have also 
demonstrated the efficacy of etanercept in patients with psoriatic arthritis or 
polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200262170-00013
PMID: 12421111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. CNS Drugs. 2002;16(12):825-50. doi: 10.2165/00023210-200216120-00004.

Glatiramer acetate: a review of its use in relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis.

Simpson D(1), Noble S, Perry C.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, New Zealand. 
demail@adis.co.nz

Glatiramer acetate is a synthetic copolymer composed of a random mixture of four 
amino acids that modifies the immune response that results in the CNS 
inflammation, demyelination and axonal loss characteristic of 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). In three randomised, double-blind 
trials in patients with RRMS, subcutaneous glatiramer acetate 20 mg/day was 
significantly more effective than placebo for the primary outcome measure of 
each trial (mean relapse rate, proportion of relapse-free patients and number of 
gadolinium-enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] scans). The 
mean relapse rate was significantly reduced at endpoint (approximately one-third 
less) in the two larger trials (the US pivotal trial [primary endpoint] and the 
European/Canadian study [tertiary endpoint]) in patients receiving glatiramer 
acetate compared with those receiving placebo. The rate was 78% less for 
glatiramer acetate than placebo patients in the pilot trial that investigated a 
slightly different patient population. Glatiramer acetate significantly 
decreased disease activity and burden of disease, as assessed in the 
European/Canadian study using a range of MRI measures. Patients with RRMS 
treated with glatiramer acetate in the US trial were significantly more likely 
to experience improved disability (whereas placebo recipients were more likely 
to experience worsening disability) and their overall disability status was 
significantly improved compared with placebo recipients. Data from the 
active-treatment extension of the US trial suggest that glatiramer acetate has 
sustained clinical benefits up to 8 years. Glatiramer acetate was generally well 
tolerated; the most commonly reported treatment-related adverse events were 
localised injection-site reactions and transient post-injection systemic 
reactions. Both reactions were generally mild and self limiting but were 
responsible for the majority of withdrawals from treatment (up to 6.5 and 3.5%, 
respectively). Glatiramer acetate is not associated with the influenza-like 
syndrome or neutralising antibodies that are reported in patients treated with 
interferon-beta for RRMS. The cost effectiveness of glatiramer acetate has yet 
to be definitively determined as assessment of available data is confounded by 
very different models, data sources and assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Glatiramer acetate has shown efficacy in well controlled clinical 
trials in patients with RRMS; it reduces relapse rate and decreases MRI-assessed 
disease activity and burden. It is generally well tolerated and is not 
associated with the influenza-like symptoms and formation of neutralising 
antibodies seen with the interferons-beta. Based on available data and current 
management guidelines, glatiramer acetate is a valuable first-line treatment 
option for patients with RRMS.

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-200216120-00004
PMID: 12421116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Transfusion. 2002 Nov;42(11):1414-21. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2002.00249.x.

Granulocyte transfusion therapy for infections in candidates and recipients of 
HPC transplantation: a comparative analysis of feasibility and outcome for 
community donors versus related donors.

Hübel K(1), Carter RA, Liles WC, Dale DC, Price TH, Bowden RA, Rowley SD, 
Chauncey TR, Bensinger WI, Boeckh M.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Comment in
    Transfusion. 2002 Nov;42(11):1393-5.

BACKGROUND: Feasibility, response to granulocyte transfusion therapy, and 
clinical outcome were compared among HPC transplant recipients enrolled in a 
prospective study of a community blood bank-based unrelated donors program, a 
prospective granulocyte study using family donors, and matched control patients 
without granulocyte transfusion therapy.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Overall, 40 patients (327 collections) received 
granulocyte concentrates from unrelated donors, 34 patients (219 collections) 
received granulocyte concentrates from related donors, and 74 patients served as 
controls. Study entry criteria for patients included an absolute neutrophil 
count (ANC) of less than 200 per microL and documented invasive fungal or 
bacterial infections.
RESULTS: There was a median delay of 3 days (range, 0-14) in patients receiving 
transfusions from unrelated donors between day of diagnosis of infection and 
start of granulocyte transfusion therapy as compared with a median delay of 5 
days (range, 0-25) in patients receiving transfusions from related donors (p = 
0.01). The ANC increment after the first, second, and seventh transfusions in 
patients who had community donors was significantly higher or comparable to 
patients who had family donors. Overall, clinical outcome was comparable between 
the three patient groups. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed no difference between 
all cohorts in overall 6-month survival (p = 0.28, log-rank) or event-free 
survival (p = 0.17, log-rank).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that future efficacy trials should consider 
inclusion of unrelated community donors for timely institution of granulocyte 
transfusion therapy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2002.00249.x
PMID: 12421213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Nov;36(5):982-7. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.128313.

Outcome of common iliac arteries after aortoaortic graft placement during 
elective repair of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Sala F(1), Hassen-Khodja R, Branchereau P, Berthet JP, Batt M, Mary H, Marty-Ane 
C, Alric P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, CHU de Nice, Hôpital Saint Roch, Nice, 
France. sala.f@hu-nice.fr

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was determination of the expansion rates 
relative to the size of the common iliac artery (CIA) after elective placement 
of a straight aortic tube graft for an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA).
METHODS: Between January 1993 and December 1997, 74 men (mean age, 69 years) 
with AAA underwent surgical repair with a straight tube graft. All patients 
underwent preoperative and postoperative computed tomography (CT) scans. The 
mean follow-up period was 68.3 months. The preoperative CT scan revealed a 
dilatation of at least one of the two CIAs in 32 patients (43.2%; group A). 
Within this group, the CIA was ectatic (12 mm < diameter < 18 mm) in 13 patients 
(subgroup A1) and aneurysmal (diameter >/=18 mm) in 19 patients (subgroup A2). 
The diameters of both CIAs were normal (diameter </=12 mm) in the other 42 
patients (56.8%; group B).
RESULTS: Two patients (2.7%) in group A2 needed reoperation because of expansion 
of the diameter of the CIA; the preoperative diameter of the CIA in both 
patients was 30 mm. The diameters of the CIA aneurysms in the 17 other patients 
in subgroup A2 were smaller than 30 mm on the preoperative CT scan. After aortic 
surgery, the sizes of these aneurysms remained stable the first 5 years and 
reached a diameter of 30 mm on the CT scans obtained 7 to 8 years after surgery. 
Overall, 10 of the 74 patients (13.5%) had a CIA aneurysm develop that was 
smaller than 30 mm in diameter (mean diameter, 19.2 mm) 7 to 8 years after 
aortic surgery. The presence of a celiac aorta dilatation greater than or equal 
to 25 mm was the only statistically significant factor predictive of 
postoperative expansion of a CIA dilatation (P =.03).
CONCLUSION: Straight aortoaortic tube grafts are indicated for CIAs with 
diameters smaller than 18 mm. Aorta biiliac bifurcated grafts are justified when 
the CIA diameter is between 18 and 30 mm, when the patient's life expectancy is 
longer than 8 years, or when the diameter of the celiac aorta is greater than or 
equal to 25 mm. A CIA aneurysm greater than or equal to 30 mm should be repaired 
during the same operative session as the AAA with placement of an aorta biiliac 
bifurcated graft.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.128313
PMID: 12422109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Am Heart J. 2002 Nov;144(5):877-80. doi: 10.1067/mhj.2002.126121.

Effectiveness of percutaneous device occlusion for atrial septal defect in adult 
patients with pulmonary hypertension.

de Lezo JS(1), Medina A, Romero M, Pan M, Segura J, Caballero E, Pavlovic D, 
Ortega JR, Franco M, Delgado A, Ojeda S, Mesa D, Lafuente M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Reina Sofía, University of Córdoba, Córdoba, Spain. 
grupo_corpal@arrakis.es

BACKGROUND: Adult patients with atrial septal defect (ASD) and pulmonary 
hypertension have a more advanced degree of disease, frequently having 
functional class deterioration and atrial arrhythmias when they are aged >40 
years. Surgery at this age prolongs life expectancy and limits functional 
deterioration. Although percutaneous ASD device occlusion is an accepted 
alternative to surgery, there is limited information on the immediate and 
long-term effects of device occlusion in middle-aged and elderly patients with 
ASD and pulmonary hypertension.
METHODS: From a total of 101 patients with secundum ASD who were receiving 
treatment with percutaneous device occlusion, we selected for analysis 29 adult 
patients (mean age 56 +/- 14 years) with a baseline peak pulmonary pressure of 
>40 mm Hg (mean 65 +/- 23 mm Hg). Three of the patients had suprasystemic 
pulmonary pressure and a bidirectional shunt. Six patients were asymptomatic at 
treatment. The remaining 23 had different degrees of dyspnea; 14 of them had an 
advanced New York Heart Association functional class (III-IV). Twelve patients 
had chronic atrial fibrillation. At cardiac catheterization, the mean ratio of 
pulmonary to systemic flow was 1.8 +/- 0.5, and the pulmonary-to-systemic 
pressure ratio was 0.66 +/- 0.22. The mean diameter of the defect, as evaluated 
by the stretching balloon method, was 26 +/- 7 mm. All patients received an 
Amplatzer septal occluder (Golden Valley, Minn). Seven patients had combined 
therapeutic procedures for associated anomalies before the implant: mitral 
balloon valvuloplasty (n = 1), stent coronary revascularization (n = 1), stent 
in pulmonary vein stenosis (n = 1), and internal catheter defibrillation (n = 
4). After treatment, patients were followed up by clinical and echocardiographic 
Doppler studies every 6 months.
RESULTS: Immediately after the implantation, the peak systolic pulmonary 
pressure significantly decreased to 54 +/- 21 mm Hg (P <.001). A clear 
improvement in functional status was observed after the treatment in all 
symptomatic patients, especially in those with refractory heart failure. There 
were no major complications. Six patients who had atrial fibrillation at 
baseline study recovered to a stable sinus rhythm after treatment, and it was 
maintained at discharge. Complete ASD occlusion by echocardiographic Doppler at 
discharge was observed in 28 patients (97%). After a mean follow up of 21 +/- 14 
months, clinical improvement persisted in all previously symptomatic patients, 
and the peak systolic pulmonary pressure, obtained by echocardiographic Doppler, 
further decreased to 31 +/- 11 mm Hg (P <.001) compared with baseline and 
immediately after hemodynamic measurements.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that percutaneous device occlusion of ASD in 
adult patients with pulmonary hypertension is safe and effective and provides 
significant and prolonged relief.

DOI: 10.1067/mhj.2002.126121
PMID: 12422159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. G Chir. 2002 Jun-Jul;23(6-7):243-6.

[Sarcoma of the breast. Two clinical cases and review of the literature].

[Article in Italian]

Corsale I(1), Ruggiero R, Mandato M, Foglia E, De Martino A, Zenone P, 
Procaccini E.

Author information:
(1)U.O. Chirurgia Generale, Regione Toscana, ASL 3 Pistoia.

BACKGROUND: Sarcomas of the breast are rare neoplasm. Wide discordances exist 
about prognostic factors, therapy and life expectancy.
METHODS: Two women affected by sarcoma of the breast; prognostic aspects and 
therapy are analyzed.
RESULTS: After radical mastectomy one patient, with neoplasm of 4.5 cm in 
diameter, is still alive one year after the surgical procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Diagnosis of the sarcomas of the breast is very difficult with the 
common radiological imaging, specially in the early phases when the sarcomas 
often can simulate absolutely benign lesions. Prognostic factors are 
histological type and degree, mytosis number for field and, probably, dimensions 
of the neoplasm. Sarcomas less than 3 cm in diameter can be admitted to 
conservative surgical procedure, but radical mastectomy is unavoidable when 
dimensions exceed this limit.

PMID: 12422778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Eur J Biochem. 2002 Nov;269(22):5423-30. doi:
10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.03231.x.

Identification and characterization of thioredoxin and thioredoxin reductase 
from Aeropyrum pernix K1.

Jeon SJ(1), Ishikawa K.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (Kansai), 
Ikeda, Osaka, Japan.

We have identified and characterized a thermostable thioredoxin system in the 
aerobic hyperthermophilic archaeon Aeropyrum pernix K1. The gene (Accession no. 
APE0641) of A. pernix encoding a 37 kDa protein contains a redox active site 
motif (CPHC) but its N-terminal extension region (about 200 residues) shows no 
homology within the genome database. A second gene (Accession no. APE1061) has 
high homology to thioredoxin reductase and encodes a 37 kDa protein with the 
active site motif (CSVC), and binding sites for FAD and NADPH. We cloned the two 
genes and expressed both proteins in E. coli. It was observed that the 
recombinant proteins could act as an NADPH-dependent protein disulfide reductase 
system in the insulin reduction. In addition, the APE0641 protein and 
thioredoxin reductase from E. coli could also catalyze the disulfide reduction. 
These indicated that APE1061 and APE0641 express thioredoxin (ApTrx) and 
thioredoxin reductase (ApTR) of A. pernix, respectively. ApTR is expressed as an 
active homodimeric flavoprotein in the E. coli system. The optimum temperature 
was above 90 degrees C, and the half-life of heat inactivation was about 4 min 
at 110 degrees C. The heat stability of ApTR was enhanced in the presence of 
excess FAD. ApTR could reduce both thioredoxins from A. pernix and E. coli and 
showed a similar molar specific activity for both proteins. The standard state 
redox potential of ApTrx was about -262 mV, which was slightly higher than that 
of Trx from E. coli (-270 mV). These results indicate that a lower redox 
potential of thioredoxin is not necessary for keeping catalytic disulfide bonds 
reduced and thereby coping with oxidative stress in an aerobic hyperthermophilic 
archaea. Furthermore, the thioredoxin system of aerobic hyperthermophilic 
archaea is biochemically close to that of the bacteria.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.03231.x
PMID: 12423340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Eur J Ultrasound. 2002 Oct;15(3):151-64. doi: 10.1016/s0929-8266(02)00037-x.

Performance testing of medical echo/Doppler equipment.

Thijssen JM(1), van Wijk MC, Cuypers MH.

Author information:
(1)435 Clinical Physics Laboratory, University Children's Hospital and 
Children's Heart Centre, P O Box 9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
j.thijssen@cukz.umcn.nl

This paper describes the methods applied in a software package developed by the 
authors for use in a performance testing protocol for medical ultrasound 
equipment. The history of performance testing of medical ultrasound equipment is 
briefly reviewed. This paper is confined to the testing of performance of usage 
aspects, i.e. imaging performance and Doppler velocity estimation performance. 
Simple test objects are used which have a long life expectancy. The tests 
performed both in fundamental and in (tissue) harmonic modes when applicable are 
spatial resolution, contrast sensitivity, and clutter. The concept of a 
computational observer is used to define the lesion signal-to-noise ratio and 
the tissue-to-clutter ratio. Further imaging performance features are 
penetration depth, slice thickness and geometric conformity of display. Pulsed 
Doppler velocity measurement features tested are: sensitivity, depth and 3D size 
of the sample volume, velocity measurement, channel separation. The whole 
performance measurement protocol as well as the quantitative measurements in the 
digitized images are implemented in software, together with the graphs and data 
obtained from the measurements.

DOI: 10.1016/s0929-8266(02)00037-x
PMID: 12423742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Lancet. 2002 Nov 2;360(9343):1404. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11434-6.

Canada waits for "grandaddy" of health-reform studies.

Kondro W.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)11434-6
PMID: 12424004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. BMJ. 2002 Nov 9;325(7372):1114; author reply 1114.

Risk factor thresholds. Threshold is 37 000 pounds sterling per QALY.

Soljak MA.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2002 Jun 29;324(7353):1570-6.

PMCID: PMC1124591
PMID: 12424179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Microsc Res Tech. 2002 Nov 15;59(4):325-30. doi: 10.1002/jemt.10212.

Lifespan extension by caloric restriction: an aspect of energy metabolism.

Yamaza H(1), Chiba T, Higami Y, Shimokawa I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Digestive Medicine, Nagasaki University School 
of Medicine, Nagasaki City 852-8523, Japan. hyamaza@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

Caloric restriction (CR) may retard aging processes and extend lifespan in 
organisms by altering energy-metabolic pathways. In CR rodents, glucose influx 
into tissues is not reduced, as compared with control animals fed ad libitum 
(AL), although plasma concentrations of glucose and insulin are lower. Gene 
expression profiles in rodents have suggested that CR promotes gluconeogenesis 
and fatty acid biosynthesis in skeletal muscle. In the liver, CR promotes 
gluconeogenesis but decreases fatty acid synthesis and glycolysis. In lower 
organisms such as yeasts and nematodes, incomplete blocks in steps of 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signal pathway extend lifespan. The 
life-prolonging effect of CR in yeasts requires NPT1 and SIR2 genes, both of 
which relate to sensing energy status and silencing genes. These findings stress 
the substantial role of energy metabolism on CR. Future studies on metabolic 
adaptation and gene silencing with regard to lower caloric intake will be 
warranted to understand the mechanisms of the anti-aging and life-prolonging 
effects of CR.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.10212
PMID: 12424796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Clin Geriatr Med. 2002 Aug;18(3):371-82. doi: 10.1016/s0749-0690(02)00021-6.

Successful aging--an emerging paradigm of gerontology.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, 1000 Welch Road, Suite 203, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. 
jff@stanford.edu

In the largely successful preventive approach to reduction in cardiovascular 
disease prevalence, three classic stages of investigation were used. First, an 
hypothesis was raised that diet and cholesterol levels were a cause of heart 
disease. Second, multiple longitudinal observational studies, led by the 
Framingham group, documented a strong association between these health risks and 
heart disease mortality. Finally, randomized controlled trials of 
cholesterol-lowering drugs established proof of causality. Our understanding of 
the Successful Aging phenomenon has followed the same sequence. The Compression 
of Morbidity hypothesis sets forth a new and promising paradigm. Multiple 
longitudinal and cross-sectional observational studies show strong associations 
consistent with the hypothesis. Finally, randomized controlled trials of healthy 
aging interventions prove our ability to successfully intervene in this most 
important of all contemporary health problems: the health of seniors [28].

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0690(02)00021-6
PMID: 12424864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Clin Geriatr Med. 2002 Aug;18(3):505-28. doi: 10.1016/s0749-0690(02)00028-9.

Prevention of cancer in the older person.

Balducci L(1), Beghé C.

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Oncology Program, University of South Florida College of 
Medicine, University of South Florida, Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt 
Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

Both primary and secondary cancer prevention may improve cancer control among 
older persons. Although chemoprevention of cancer is feasible, the agents 
currently used for chemoprevention have several complications. As a result, the 
use of these substances should be individualized based on risk-benefit ratio. It 
is reasonable to implement screening for cancer of the breast and of the large 
bowel in persons with a life expectancy of 5 years and longer. No definite 
recommendation may be issued at present related to screening for prostate, lung, 
and cervical cancer. Ongoing clinical trials may answer some of these questions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0690(02)00028-9
PMID: 12424870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Int J Clin Pract. 2002 Oct;56(8):588-90.

16. Breast cancer in older women.

Bultitude MF(1), Fentiman IS.

Author information:
(1)Hedley Atkins Breast Unit, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Elderly women are more likely to have less aggressive tumours, which are 
oestrogen receptor positive. They are less likely to be offered screening and 
often given inadequate treatment leading to a higher mortality rate. They should 
be assessed in the same way as their younger counterparts. Age should not be a 
consideration, rather life expectancy Patients' wishes are important but the 
mainstay of treatment is surgical, including axillary node clearance, with 
adjuvant tamoxifen as appropriate. Radiotherapy should not be withheld unless 
there are good reasons to contradict this. In unfit patients, tamoxifen alone is 
a suitable treatment but tumorectomy under local anaesthetic is preferable. If 
the tumour is oestrogen receptor negative, surgery and/or radiotherapy will be 
required.

PMID: 12425368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. South Med J. 2002 Oct;95(10):1113-21.

Medicine at the medical center then and now: one hundred years of progress.

Cooper MR(1), Stewart DC, Kahl FR, Brown WM, Cordell AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest University Baptist Medical 
Center, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157, USA.

The health and life expectancy of persons residing in the United States has 
improved dramatically during the 20th century. The average life span in the US 
has increased by more than 30 years since 1900. This significant gain is 
attributable to improvements in both public health and medical care. Tempering 
this notable achievement is the observation that the mortality rate per 1,000 
population, although showing a significant decline in the era from 1920 to 1940, 
has now plateaued, and may be showing a slight increase. Our scientists and 
physicians have appropriately exploited the scientific discoveries of the 20th 
century and are poised as a medical tour de force for the 21st century. The 
decline in deaths from coronary artery disease and stroke has resulted from 
risk-factor modification and the innovations of surgeons and physicians who have 
dedicated themselves to early detection and better treatment of these cases. 
During the 1960s, patients admitted to our medical center with advanced 
Hodgkin's disease, hairy cell leukemia, and the acute leukemias had a life 
expectancy of < 1 year. Today, even advanced Hodgkin's disease and hairy cell 
leukemia are curable, and many patients with other acute leukemias respond to 
therapy and have very durable remissions. The rate of maternal mortality has 
shown a dramatic decline, and many childhood diseases have been eradicated or 
reduced to infrequent occurrences. Our public health scientists and physicians 
are joining forces to further diminish the morbidity and mortality rates for 
many of our common diseases. The achievements of our past afford us the vision 
for what we can become.

PMID: 12425493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Am J Gastroenterol. 2002 Nov;97(11):2924-5; author reply 2925. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2002.07076.x.

Re: Arguedas et al.--Hepatitis A prevention analysis.

Jacobs RJ, Meyerhoff AS, Koff RS.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2002 Mar;97(3):721-8.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2002.07076.x
PMID: 12425575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2002 Nov;57(6):S348-54. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/57.6.s348.

Assessment of patient preferences: integrating treatments and outcomes.

Fried TR(1), Bradley EH, Towle VR.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, West Haven Veterans Affairs Connecticut 
Healthcare System, Department of Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA. terri.fried@yale.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to develop a patient-centered measure 
of treatment preference applicable across a range of diseases and treatment 
decisions.
METHODS: Instrument development was based on previous research supplemented by 
open-ended interviews and focus groups. Psychometric properties of the 
instrument were determined by administration to 125 persons aged 60 or older 
with a limited life expectancy secondary to congestive heart failure, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, or cancer. Test-retest and inter-rater 
reliability were established using intraclass correlation coefficients. 
Construct validity was established by examining associations of the measure with 
a single-item question regarding treatment goals and with age, ethnicity, and 
functional impairment, characteristics known to be associated with preferences. 
The Willingness to Accept Life-Sustaining Treatment instrument (WALT) consists 
of 6 scenarios in which respondents weigh treatment burden against treatment 
outcomes expressed in terms of the likelihood of different health states and 
length of life following treatment.
RESULTS: Inter-rater reliability ranged from .73 to .95 and test-retest 
reliability from .49 to .93. WALT scores were significantly associated with a 
simpler measure of preference and with age, ethnicity, and functional 
impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: The WALT measures patients' treatment preferences, assessed in the 
context of treatment burden and multiple aspects of treatment outcome with sound 
psychometric properties.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/57.6.s348
PMID: 12426443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Radiologe. 2002 Aug;42(8):637-45. doi: 10.1007/s00117-002-0774-6.

[Ultrasound screening of the infant hip].

[Article in German]

Weitzel D(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Kinderheilkunde und Jugendmedizin, Deutsche Klinik für 
Diagnostik, Aukamm-Allee 33, 65191 Wiesbaden. weitzel.paed@dkd-wiesbaden.de

The sonographic screening of the hip has led to a marked decrease in treatment 
of children with developmental dysplasia of the hip (ddh) as inpatients. The 
prognosis for this disorder has greatly improved in the past few years due to 
early diagnosis and correspondingly early beginning of therapy, in many cases by 
using simple therapeutic methods. This undisputed success has been achieved with 
a high treatment rate in comparison with international practice (6.4%). The 
expectancy of reducing the number of checks, and thus costs, by deciding on the 
4th to 6th week of life as the time for screening has not been met.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-002-0774-6
PMID: 12426743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nihon Naika Gakkai Zasshi. 2002 Sep 20;91 Suppl:159-63. doi: 
10.2169/naika.91.supplement-sep_159.

The new world of medicine: prospecting for health.

Go VL(1), Champaneria MC.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Center for Human Nutrition, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Throughout past millennia, human beings have shared the common goal of improving 
health for longevity. However, different cultures around the world have 
developed their own approaches to achieve this goal. Various traditions have 
emerged, rendering distinct medical systems such as Ayurveda, Yoga, 
Chinese-Japanese medicine, shamanism, and Native American healing. Traditional 
medicine involves a holistic approach to the human body to integrate healing 
with culture, environment, and tradition. Modern allopathic medicine originated 
from Greco-Roman Medicine and Northern European traditions and is built on the 
science of anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry and the structure-function 
relationship between cells, tissues, and organs. This foundation focuses on 
diagnosis, treatment, and cure for acute illnesses via potent pharmaceutical 
drugs, surgery, radiation, and other treatment modalities. Within this past 
century, we have doubled the life-span of human beings. Genomic medicine, 
including stem cell research, cloning, and gene therapy, will increase our 
capability to treat even more diseases. In the new millennium, we face more 
chronic illnesses related to aging, environment, and lifestyle, such as cancer, 
diabetes. osteoporosis, and cardiovascular diseases. Thus, health care providers 
face the challenge of prospecting for health and disease prevention. Modern 
science and medical advancements provide the rationale for the integration of 
various traditional healing techniques, which have been termed Alternative and 
Complementary Medicine, to promote healing, health, and longevity. Advances in 
medicine must include the holistic approach of traditional medicine to face the 
current challenges in health care. Therefore, the New World of Medicine must 
fuse the antiquity of ancient healing with the innovations of modern medicine to 
increase life-expectancy and improve quality of life throughout the world.

DOI: 10.2169/naika.91.supplement-sep_159
PMID: 12426761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Kidney Int. 2002 Dec;62(6):1933-46. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2002.00675.x.

Globotriaosylceramide accumulation in the Fabry kidney is cleared from multiple 
cell types after enzyme replacement therapy.

Thurberg BL(1), Rennke H, Colvin RB, Dikman S, Gordon RE, Collins AB, Desnick 
RJ, O'Callaghan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Fabry disease, a lysosomal storage disease caused by deficient 
lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A activity, is characterized by 
globotriaosylceramide (GL-3) accumulation in multiple cell types, particularly 
the vasculature, leading to end organ failure. Accumulation in the kidney is 
responsible for progressive decline in renal function in male patients with the 
classical phenotype, resulting in renal failure in their third to fifth decades 
of life. With the advent of recombinant protein synthesis technology, enzyme 
replacement therapy has become a viable alternative to dialysis or renal 
transplantation, previously the only available treatment options for end-stage 
renal disease.
METHODS: The pre- and post-treatment renal biopsies were analyzed from 
fifty-eight Fabry patients enrolled in a Phase 3 double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial followed by a six-month open label extension study of 
the recombinant human enzyme, alpha-galactosidase A (r-halphaGalA), administered 
IV at 1 mg/kg biweekly. The purpose of this investigation was to detail the 
pathologic changes in glycosphingolipid distribution and the pattern of 
post-treatment clearance in the kidney.
RESULTS: Baseline evaluations revealed GL-3 accumulations in nearly all renal 
cell types including vascular endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells, 
mesangial cells and interstitial cells, with particularly dense accumulations in 
podocytes and distal tubular epithelial cells. After 11 months of r-halphaGalA 
treatment there was complete clearance of glycolipid from the endothelium of all 
vasculature as well as from the mesangial cells of the glomerulus and 
interstitial cells of the cortex. Moderate clearance was noted from the smooth 
muscle cells of arterioles and small arteries. Podocytes and distal tubular 
epithelium also demonstrated evidence for decreased GL-3, although this 
clearance was more limited than that observed in other cell types. No evidence 
of immune complex disease was found by immunofluorescence despite circulating 
anti-r-halphaGalA IgG antibodies.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate a striking reversal of renal 
glycosphingolipid accumulation in the vasculature and in other renal cell types, 
and suggest that long-term treatment with r-halphaGalA may halt the progression 
of pathology and prevent renal failure in patients with Fabry disease.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2002.00675.x
PMID: 12427118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Am J Med. 2002 Oct 15;113(6):491-8. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01266-4.

Cost-effectiveness of gastric bypass for severe obesity.

Craig BM(1), Tseng DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA. bmcraig@wisc.edu

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of gastric bypass in the treatment 
of severe obesity.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of gastric 
bypass versus no treatment from the payer perspective. We discounted 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), life-years, and cost during the patient's 
lifetime. Our target group comprised women and men aged 35 to 55 years with a 
body mass index between 40 and 50 kg/m(2), and who did not have cardiovascular 
disease and in whom conservative bariatric therapies had been unsuccessful.
RESULTS: The base case cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 5000 dollars to 
16,100 dollars per QALY for women and from 10,000 dollars to 35,600 dollars per 
QALY for men, depending on age and initial body mass index. In a few subgroups 
of older, less obese men, variation in parameters such as loss of excess weight, 
obesity-related quality of life, complication rates, and perioperative mortality 
affected the cost-effectiveness ratios. Parameter variation did not result in 
meaningful changes in the remaining patients.
CONCLUSION: Gastric bypass is a cost-effective alternative to no treatment, 
providing substantial lifetime benefits in patients who are severely obese.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(02)01266-4
PMID: 12427499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2002 Nov-Dec;23(10):1669-73.

Terminal zones of myelination: MR evaluation of children aged 20-40 months.

Parazzini C(1), Baldoli C, Scotti G, Triulzi F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Neuroradiology, Ospedale dei Bambini V.Buzzi, 
Milan, Italy. parazzini@icp.mi.it

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: MR imaging is the method of choice for assessment in 
vivo of the development of myelination of the human central nervous system. 
During the first months of life, the myelination process follows well-defined 
steps, whereas little information exists about the later phases of myelination. 
To improve our understanding of this aspect and to identify the specific sites 
involved in the process of myelination in its terminal phase, we evaluated 
normal MR brain studies in children aged 20-40 months.
METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated 85 MR brain studies of 81 children aged 
20-40 months who were without diseases potentially affecting white matter. The 
MR studies were performed with a 1.5-T system, with T2-weighted spin-echo and 
turbo spin-echo sequences. Subjective analysis of the signal intensity of the 
white matter was made in four areas: subcortical frontal, temporal, and parietal 
lobes and peritrigonal region. Extension of myelination was graded on an ordinal 
scale; 0 indicated the absence of myelin, and the maximum value indicated 
complete myelination.
RESULTS: A persistent T2 hyperintensity of the subcortical areas was noted after 
20 months of age. With advancing age, a progressive increase in the grade of 
myelination was noted in these regions, and at about 40 months of age 
myelination was complete. However, in most of our patients aged 20 months, 
myelination in the peritrigonal areas appeared complete.
CONCLUSION: The only area that can still exhibit a persistent T2 hyperintensity 
on MR images at about 2 years of age is considered to be the peritrigonal 
region: the so-called terminal zone. At this age in our patients, however, a 
persistent T2 hyperintensity was noted in the frontotemporal subcortical 
regions. In these areas, the myelination appeared complete at 36-40 months of 
age. The so-called terminal zones were the subcortical areas rather than the 
peritrigonal area, and complete myelination took place by about age 3 years.

PMCID: PMC8185844
PMID: 12427621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Gut. 2002 Dec;51(6):894. doi: 10.1136/gut.51.6.894.

Mortality with oesophageal varices: different things to different people.

Henley KS.

Comment on
    Gut. 2001 Nov;49(5):607-8.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.51.6.894
PMCID: PMC1773457
PMID: 12427799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Soc Secur Bull. 2001-2002;64(1):52-83.

How policy variables influence the timing of applications for Social Security 
Disability Insurance.

Burkhauser RV(1), Butler JS, Weathers RR 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Policy Analysis and Management, Cornell University, USA.

This article analyzes the impact of policy variables--employer accommodations, 
state Social Security Disability Insurance (DI) allowance rates, and DI 
benefits--on the timing of an application for DI benefits by workers with a 
work-limiting health condition starting when their health condition first begins 
to bother them. The analysis uses a rich mixture of personal and employer 
characteristics from the Health and Retirement Study linked to Social Security 
administrative records. We find that most workers do not apply immediately for 
DI benefits when they are first bothered by a health condition. On the contrary, 
the median working-age man with a work-limiting condition waits 7 years after 
that time before applying, and the median working-age woman waits 8 years. 
Although the risk of applying for benefits is greatest in the year following 
onset, only 16 percent of men and 13 percent of women in our sample apply within 
the first year, and the risk of application falls thereafter. That finding 
suggests that institutional factors, in addition to health factors, may play a 
role in the timing of DI applications. Using kernel density estimates of the 
distribution of application and nonapplication ordered by state allowance rates 
(the rate of acceptance per DI determination in each state), we find that both 
men and women who live in states with high allowance rates are 
disproportionately more likely to apply for benefits in the first year after 
their condition begins to bother them than are those in states with low 
allowance rates. Using life-table analysis, we also find that men and women who 
are accommodated by their employers are significantly less likely to apply for 
DI benefits in each of the first few years after their condition begins to 
bother them than are those who are not accommodated. On the basis of this 
evidence, we include these policy variables in a model of the timing of DI 
application that controls for other socioeconomic variables as well as health. 
Using a hazard model, we find that workers who live in states with higher 
allowance rates apply for DI benefits significantly sooner than those living in 
states with lower allowance rates following the onset of a work-limiting health 
condition. Workers who are accommodated following the onset of a work-limiting 
health condition, however, are significantly slower to apply for DI benefits. 
Using the mean values of all explanatory variables, we estimate the relative 
importance of changes in these policy variables on the speed with which workers 
apply for benefits after onset. We find that the mean time until application for 
men is 10.22 years. Universal accommodations following onset would delay 
application by 4.36 years. In contrast, a 20 percent decrease in state allowance 
rates would delay application by only 0.88 years. For working-age women, the 
average expected time until application once a condition begins to bother them 
is 10.58 years. Universal accommodations would delay that by 3.76 years, and a 
20 percent decrease in allowance rates would delay it by 1.47 years. A 
complication in this analysis is that the policy variables are to some degree 
endogenous. Accommodation is probably offered more often to workers who want to 
continue working. Allowance rates are chosen by states on the basis of federal 
policy and local choices and probably in part on the health condition of workers 
in the state. Therefore, our estimates are upper bounds of these policy effects. 
Still, we believe we provide evidence that the social environment faced by 
workers with work-limiting health conditions can significantly influence their 
decision to apply for DI benefits, holding their specific health conditions 
constant.

PMID: 12428518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Clin Cardiol. 2002 Nov;25(11 Suppl 1):I2-8. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960251303.

Matching resources to treatment decisions for patients with acute coronary 
syndromes.

Califf RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, 
North Carolina 27705-3076, USA. calif001@mc.duke.edu

Multiple dynamic forces are having an impact on the way cardiovascular disease 
is treated today and will be in the future. These forces include extended life 
expectancy, decreased disability, and accelerated improvement in the 
effectiveness of medical technology. All of these forces will lead to a 
predictable increase in health care costs. Cardiologists must also be cognizant 
of the rise in health care consumerism; patients are assuming a larger role in 
decisions about their medical care and treatment. All of these factors are 
driving the climate of evidence-based medicine, particularly in the 
cardiovascular field. Payers and the government are beginning to require the 
clinical community to define quality. In turn, these third parties are beginning 
to measure quality as defined by the profession and to hold providers 
accountable for the quality of what they do. Although the frontier of genetic 
prediction in therapeutics will serve as an intellectual focus for bringing 
these issues closer to the forefront in cardiovascular medicine, the fundamental 
provision of value in health care (high quality at reasonable cost) cannot wait 
on genomics. Because the amount of evidence in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) 
exceeds other areas of medicine, therapies for ACS will undergo increasingly 
intense scrutiny.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960251303
PMCID: PMC6654521
PMID: 12428813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Eur Urol. 2002 Nov;42(5):469-74. doi: 10.1016/s0302-2838(02)00358-5.

Keratinising squamous metaplasia of the bladder: natural history and 
rationalization of management based on review of 54 years experience.

Khan MS(1), Thornhill JA, Gaffney E, Loftus B, Butler MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The Adelaide and Meath Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To review our experience of keratinising squamous metaplasia of the 
bladder as a predictor for the development of cancer and other complications, 
and formulate a policy for its management.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review (1945-1999) identified 34 patients 
with histologically proven keratinising squamous metaplasia (27 males and 7 
females, average age 50 years, range 13-80 years). The histological criteria 
used to diagnose keratinising squamous metaplasia were squamous metaplasia of 
the urothelium with keratinisation and/or hyperkeratosis and/or acanthosis. 
Female patients with non-keratinising squamous metaplasia (vaginal metaplasia) 
were excluded.
RESULTS: Four patients had synchronous bladder carcinoma (three advanced with 
early death; one localised, cured by cystectomy). Another 14 patients had 
extensive metaplasia (Group A, >50% of mucosal involvement). Three cases had 
cystectomy and cure. Six cases (out of 11) developed subsequent cancer (4 
advanced and early death, two localised and cured by cystectomy). One other case 
died of obstructive uropathy secondary to squamous metaplasia. Two cases died of 
unrelated causes. Sixteen patients had limited squamous metaplasia (Group B, 
<50% involvement mucosal surface). Twelve patients had endoscopic resection, 
extraction bladder calculus etc. with no further complications. Another two 
patients underwent urinary diversion. Two patients (out of 16) developed 
subsequent cancer both with advanced disease and early death.
CONCLUSION: Keratinising squamous metaplasia of the bladder is a significant 
risk factor for vesical carcinoma and complications, such as bladder contracture 
and ureteral obstruction. This risk of complications increases with more 
extensive bladder mucosal involvement. The wide variation in lag time to the 
development of complications necessitates indefinite follow-up. Selected 
patients with extensive bladder involvement and long life expectancy should be 
offered cystectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0302-2838(02)00358-5
PMID: 12429156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Eur Urol. 2002 Nov;42(5):491-7. doi: 10.1016/s0302-2838(02)00403-7.

The valuation of the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) for use in 
economic evaluations.

Kok ET(1), McDonnell J, Stolk EA, Stoevelaar HJ, Busschbach JJ; Triumph Research 
Group; Pan-European Expert Panel.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
P.O. BOX 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms (LUTS) suggestive of Benign Prostatic 
Obstruction (BPO) cause a reduction in quality of life, but the magnitude of 
that reduction cannot be estimated empirically. This is because survey 
instruments currently available merely sum the symptoms found, but do not value 
their impact on quality of life. It is therefore difficult to determine whether 
the effects of treatments for LUTS suggestive of BPO justify the costs. This 
complicates economic evaluations.
METHODS: We valued the impact on quality of life of patients with LUTS 
suggestive of BPO, by valuing health states defined by the International 
Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) using the time trade-off (TTO). TTO values ranged 
from 1.0 for perfect health to 0.0 for the value of death, and can be used to 
calculate Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), the preferred outcome measure in 
health economics.
RESULTS: We reduced the number of health states defined by the IPSS using factor 
analysis. The resulting nine health states were valued by a representative 
sample of the general public (N=170) using TTO. The worst IPSS health state was 
valued at 0.87.
CONCLUSION: The values for health states defined by the IPSS revealed that LUTS 
suggestive of BPO has a mild impact on quality of life. The valuation of the 
IPSS facilitates economic evaluations of treatments for LUTS suggestive of BPO, 
because QALYs (the preferred outcome measure in health economics) can be 
determined empirically.

DOI: 10.1016/s0302-2838(02)00403-7
PMID: 12429159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Space Med Med Eng (Beijing). 1999 Apr;12(2):149-53.

[The present status and development of thermal control system of spacesuits for 
extravehicular activity].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao CY(1), Sun JB, Yuan XG.

Author information:
(1)Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics [correction of 
Astronantics], Beijing, China.

With the extension of extravehicular activity (EVA) duration, the need for more 
effective thermal control of EVA spacesuits is required. The specific schemes 
investigated in heat sink system for EVA are discussed, including radiator, ice 
storage, metal hydride heat pump, phase-change storage/radiator and sublimator. 
The importance and requirements of automatic thermal control for EVA are also 
discussed. Existed automatic thermal control for EVA are reviewed. Prospects of 
further developments of thermal control of spacesuits for EVA are proposed.

PMID: 12430554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2002 Nov;128(11):1255-62. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.128.11.1255.

A cost-utility scenario analysis of bilateral cochlear implantation.

Summerfield AQ(1), Marshall DH, Barton GR, Bloor KE.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Institute of Hearing Research, University Park, 
Nottingham, England. aqs@ihr.mrc.ac.uk

CONTEXT: Unilateral cochlear implantation is a cost-effective intervention for 
profound bilateral hearing loss. There is worldwide interest in providing 
implants bilaterally.
OBJECTIVE: To use modeling to estimate the cost of gaining a quality-adjusted 
life-year by providing implants to both ears of profoundly postlingually 
deafened adults.
DESIGN: Economic scenario analysis relating the costs of providing implants to 
estimates of the gain in health-related quality of life (utility) from 
unilateral and bilateral implantation.
SETTING: Fourteen hospitals in the United Kingdom National Health Service and 1 
Medical Research Council research unit.
PARTICIPANTS: Normal-hearing adult volunteers with knowledge of implantation (n 
= 70). Adults undergoing unilateral implantation who either did not benefit from 
acoustic hearing aids preoperatively (type 1, n = 87) or benefited marginally 
(type 2, n = 115).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in utility from unilateral and bilateral 
