implantation estimated with the time trade-off technique (volunteers) and from 
unilateral implantation measured with the Mark II Health Utilities Index 
(patients); costs of providing implants and sustaining patients who have 
undergone implantation (health care perspective).
RESULTS: Gains in utility from unilateral implantation estimated by volunteers 
did not differ significantly from gains recorded by patients, giving credibility 
to the volunteers' estimate of the gain from bilateral compared with unilateral 
implantation. Cost-utility ratios, in pounds sterling per quality-adjusted 
life-year, based on volunteers' estimates, were pound 16,774 (type 1: unilateral 
implantation vs no intervention), pound 27,401 (type 2: unilateral implantation 
vs management with hearing aids), pound 61,734 (simultaneous bilateral 
implantation vs unilateral implantation), and pound 68,916 (provision of an 
additional implant vs no additional intervention).
CONCLUSION: More quality of life is likely to be gained per unit of expenditure 
on unilateral implantation than bilateral implantation.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.128.11.1255
PMID: 12431166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Clin Genet. 2002 Nov;62(5):390-3. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2002.620506.x.

The changing survival profile of people with Down's syndrome: implications for 
genetic counselling.

Glasson EJ(1), Sullivan SG, Hussain R, Petterson BA, Montgomery PD, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Ageing, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia.

Cohort studies have indicated that the survival of individuals with Down's 
syndrome has dramatically increased over the past 50 years. Early childhood 
survival in particular has shown major improvement, due largely to advances in 
cardiac surgery and in general health management. The present study was based on 
a continuous cohort of 1332 people with Down's syndrome in Western Australia, 
registered for intellectual disability services between 1953 and 2000. Their 
life expectancy was 58.6 years, 25% lived to 62.9 years, and the oldest living 
person is 73 years of age. Life expectancy for males was greater than females by 
3.3 years. The substantial increase in survival across the study period means 
that the life expectancy of people with Down's syndrome is approaching that of 
the general population, but accompanied by a range of significant mid-life 
health problems. The findings are of relevance to all developed countries and 
have considerable implications in terms of the counselling information provided 
to families at risk of having a child with Down's syndrome.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2002.620506.x
PMID: 12431254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. N Engl J Med. 2002 Nov 14;347(20):1585-92. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa012979.

Contribution of major diseases to disparities in mortality.

Wong MD(1), Shapiro MF, Boscardin WJ, Ettner SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles 90095-1736, USA. 
miwong@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Mortality from all causes is higher for persons with fewer years of 
education and for blacks, but it is unknown which diseases contribute most to 
these disparities.
METHODS: We estimated cause-specific risks of death from data from the National 
Health Interview Survey conducted from 1986 through 1994 and from linked vital 
statistics. Using these risk estimates, we calculated potential years of life 
lost and potential gains in life expectancy related to specific causes, with 
stratification according to education level and race.
RESULTS: Persons without a high-school education lost 12.8 potential life-years 
per person in the population, as compared with 3.6 for persons who graduated 
from high school (ratio, 3.5; P<0.001). Ischemic heart disease contributed most 
(11.7 percent) to the difference according to education in potential life-years 
lost (with all cardiovascular diseases accounting for 35.3 percent). All cancers 
accounted for 26.5 percent, including 7.7 percent due to lung cancer; other lung 
diseases and pneumonia contributed 10.1 percent of the total, whereas human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease accounted for none of the difference 
according to education. The pattern of disparities according to level of income 
was similar to that according to level of education. Blacks and whites lost 7.0 
and 5.2 potential life-years per person, respectively, as a result of deaths 
from any cause (ratio, 1.35; P<0.001). Cardiovascular diseases accounted for one 
third of this disparity, in large part because of hypertension (15.0 percent); 
HIV disease (11.2 percent) contributed almost as much as ischemic heart disease 
(5.5 percent), stroke (2.8 percent), and cancer (3.4 percent) combined; trauma 
and diabetes mellitus accounted for 10.7 percent and 8.5 percent, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Although many conditions contribute to socioeconomic and racial 
disparities in potential life-years lost, a few conditions account for most of 
these disparities - smoking-related diseases in the case of mortality among 
persons with fewer years of education, and hypertension, HIV, diabetes mellitus, 
and trauma in the case of mortality among black persons. These findings have 
important implications for targeting efforts to reduce existing disparities in 
mortality rates.

Copyright 2002 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa012979
PMID: 12432046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2002 Nov 14;420(6912):211-7. doi: 10.1038/nature01255.

The language of genes.

Searls DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Division, Genetics Research, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, 
King of Prussia, PA 19406, USA. david_b_searle@gsk.com

Linguistic metaphors have been woven into the fabric of molecular biology since 
its inception. The determination of the human genome sequence has brought these 
metaphors to the forefront of the popular imagination, with the natural 
extension of the notion of DNA as language to that of the genome as the 'book of 
life'. But do these analogies go deeper and, if so, can the methods developed 
for analysing languages be applied to molecular biology? In fact, many 
techniques used in bioinformatics, even if developed independently, may be seen 
to be grounded in linguistics. Further interweaving of these fields will be 
instrumental in extending our understanding of the language of life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature01255
PMID: 12432405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2002 Nov-Dec;29(10):1411-9. doi: 10.1188/02.ONF.1411-1419.

A family-based program of care for women with recurrent breast cancer and their 
family members.

Northouse LL(1), Walker J, Schafenacker A, Mood D, Mellon S, Galvin E, Harden J, 
Freeman-Gibb L.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
lnortho@umich.edu

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the FOCUS Program (family involvement, 
optimistic attitude, coping effectiveness, uncertainty reduction, and symptom 
management), a family-based program of care for women with recurrent breast 
cancer and their family caregivers.
DATA SOURCES: Randomized clinical trial.
SETTING: Midwest region of the United States.
DATA SYNTHESIS: The family-based program of care consisted of five components: 
family involvement, optimistic attitude, coping effectiveness, uncertainty 
reduction, and symptom management. The program was delivered in three home 
visits and two follow-up phone calls over a five-month period of time.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with recurrent breast cancer and their family members 
reported high satisfaction with the FOCUS Program. Although the FOCUS Program 
had a number of strengths, limitations of the program also were identified that 
need to be addressed in future family-based interventions.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: A need exists for family-based programs of care that 
enable both patients and their family members to manage the multiple demands 
associated with recurrent breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1188/02.ONF.1411-1419
PMID: 12432412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 2002 Dec;283(6):G1226-31. doi: 
10.1152/ajpgi.00276.2002.

Aging and neural control of the GI tract: IV. Clinical and physiological aspects 
of gastrointestinal motility and aging.

Orr WC(1), Chen CL.

Author information:
(1)Lynn Health Science Institute, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73112, USA. 
worr@lhsi.net

The gastrointestinal motility changes that occur as a function of age are 
reviewed herein. Careful attention must be given in any review of aging 
phenomena to exclude, or at least be cognizant of, the many comorbid conditions 
that can alter physiological functioning in older adults. The dramatic increase 
in life expectancy over the past 10-15 years demands that clinicians be aware of 
the various physiological and clinically relevant changes that occur with age. 
Gastrointestinal motility changes associated with age are relatively subtle, and 
in many instances only conflicting data exist. As the older adult population 
increases, and as the control of disease is improved, much more work needs to be 
done to understand the true effects of aging on gastrointestinal functioning.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpgi.00276.2002
PMID: 12433662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2002 Nov;24(5):417-22. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1754.

Role of subintimal angioplasty in the treatment of chronic lower limb ischaemia.

Tisi PV(1), Mirnezami A, Baker S, Tawn J, Parvin SD, Darke SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical outcome of subintimal angioplasty (SA) and 
to assess impact on surgical workload.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of a single radiologist's case series.
MATERIALS: One hundred and twenty two patients with critical limb ischaemia and 
26 with claudication.
METHODS: One hundred and fifty eight limbs treated by SA.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Technical success and complications; cumulative patency, 
limb salvage and survival; affect of SA on vascular workload.
RESULTS: The technical success rate was 85%. There were 26 procedural 
complications (16%) but no patient required emergency surgery; 30-day mortality 
was 3%. Primary and secondary 12-month patency rates were 27 and 33%. Limb 
salvage rate was 88% at 12 months. SA initially reduced the number of patients 
needing arterial surgery, although this then increased due to late failure of SA 
and an increase in de novo bypass.
CONCLUSIONS: SA carries a low risk of major complications and high immediate 
technical success. Poor long-term patency suggests that SA is not as durable as 
bypass surgery. However, failed SA did not compromise subsequent surgery, which 
only became necessary in a proportion of patients. Our data suggests that there 
is little to be lost by using SA as first-line treatment for patients with 
limb-threatening ischaemia who are poor operative risks or who have no 
autologous vein available.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1754
PMID: 12435341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Mol Pharmacol. 2002 Dec;62(6):1471-81. doi: 10.1124/mol.62.6.1471.

Commitment of activated T cells to secondary responsiveness is enhanced by 
signals mediated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase A-I.

Vig M(1), George A, Sen R, Durdik J, Rath S, Bal V.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, India.

Modalities that induce specific differentiation to T cell memory in immune 
responses are important for vaccine design, but there is a paucity of well 
characterized molecular pathways useful to target for this purpose. We have 
shown previously that pentoxifylline (PF), a phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor 
in common clinical use, enhances the commitment of in vitro allo-primed human T 
cells to secondary responsiveness, a characteristic crucial for memory T cells, 
which are key determinants of the longevity of the immune response. We now show 
that this effect can also be mediated by activation of adenylate cyclase (AC) 
and involves PDE4, but not PDE3 or PDE7. PF-mediated enhancement of T-cell 
priming is inhibited by blocking AC, is specifically signaled via cAMP-dependent 
protein kinase A (PKA) isoform I, and is probably independent of both nuclear 
factor-kappaB and the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. Furthermore, 
known pharmacological inhibitors of AC or PKA by themselves cannot block T-cell 
priming in the absence of PF or rolipram (Rm), and enhancement of priming 
requires the presence of PF only relatively late during a 4-day priming in vitro 
(at 48-96 h), suggesting that pharmacological extension of cAMP-mediated 
signaling can bring about an event critical for T cell commitment to memory. 
Furthermore, PF and Rm prevent induction of caspase activation and apoptosis in 
anti-CD3-activated human T cells. Together, our data suggest that PKA-I-mediated 
signals triggered by prolonging the half-life of cAMP induced during T-cell 
priming increase survival of activated T cells and enhance memory T cell 
commitment.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.62.6.1471
PMID: 12435816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Rev Neurol. 2002 Nov 1-15;35(9):808-11.

[Aids: is it a risk factor in cerebrovascular disease?].

[Article in Spanish]

Casanova-Sotolongo P(1), Casanova-Carrillo P, Casanova-Carrillo C.

Author information:
(1)Policlinico Docente "Heroes del Moncada". Municipio de Salud Plaza, La 
Habana, Cuba. pcasanov@infomed.sld.cu

INTRODUCTION: Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) has become an important health 
problem throughout the world. It is generally one the main causes of morbidity 
and mortality in the world, especially in developed countries. In these 
countries the frequency with which it appears is linked with the progress 
reached in the organisation of the public health system and the higher economic 
and social standards of their populations, which have given rise to prolonged 
life expectancy and a greater number of elderly people. In poor countries, 
however, in recent times there has also been an increase in the number of cases 
of this entity, although there is no correspondence with the arguments mentioned 
above concerning rich nations. The risk factors (RF) that are invoked when 
talking about its genesis must always be taken into account when dealing with 
its prevention. AIMS. To draw attention to the increase in the number of CVD in 
an under developed country, apparently due to the high frequency of the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome suffered by the population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A study was conducted involving all the patients admitted 
to the Hospital Central de Beira between 1 January 1988 and 30 June 1999 with a 
clinical picture compatible with a CVD. They had all been examined by a 
neurologist (always the same one) and had also been submitted to serological 
tests to detect the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
RESULTS: Of the 155 cases with CVD, 56.7% were HIV+. Below the age of 50, CVD is 
generally not associated with any other RF.
CONCLUSION: These findings show that we must expect an increase in the morbidity 
and mortality from CVD in poor nations, which will balance out the difference 
that existed up to a few years ago with the more developed countries. The 
appearance of CVD in young subjects, without any other apparent cause, will 
force us to rule out a possible HIV infection in high risk individuals

PMID: 12436376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Z Kardiol. 2002;91 Suppl 2:12-24.

[Nutrition and body weight].

[Article in German]

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Kardiologie II Herz-Zentrum Bad Krozingen Südring 15 79189 Bad 
Krozingen, Germany. helmut.gohlke@herzzentrum.de

Certain dietary components play a key role for the development of coronary 
artery disease (CAD). Complex carbohydrates lower the prevalence of CAD. Protein 
should provide 15% of daily calories. Populations with a high consumption of soy 
protein have a low coronary event rate and a high life expectancy. Soy protein 
has a favorable effect on LDL cholesterol, triglycerides and HDL cholesterol. 
Dietary cholesterol correlates with an increased incidence of CAD. Saturated 
fats increase cholesterol levels as well as the activity of clotting factor VII 
and promote progression of CAD. Mono-(MUFA) and poly-unsaturated fatty acids 
lower LDL-cholesterol to a similar extent. MUFA are contained in rape seed oil, 
olive oil and pea nut oil, but also in avocados and almonds. Omega-3-fatty acids 
are in fatty fish like salmon, tuna and herring and improve survival after 
myocardial infarction. They improve among others endothelial function (adhesion 
molecules). Eating 1-2 fish meals per week has a preventive effect on CAD and 
stroke. Dietary fiber decreases the risk for CAD up to 30% and favorably 
influences carbohydrate metabolism. Antioxidants have a favorable effect in 
their natural form (fruits and fresh vegetables). The secondary preventive 
effect of a mediterranean diet after myocardial infarction (probably by a 
combination of the above effects) has been validated. Body weight correlates 
with coronary risk, diabetes and use of health care resources. A reduction of 
body weight is best achieved by calory reduction plus an increase of physical 
activity. A calory-adjusted diet, low in total fat with a significant proportion 
of unsaturated fats and omega-3-fatty acids and rich in fiber is of great 
importance for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. 
Fruits, vegetables and whole grain products are important components of this 
diet, which lowers the coronary event rate, increases longevity and is 
associated with a low rate of malignancies and osteoporosis.

PMID: 12436761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Z Kardiol. 2002;91 Suppl 2:49-60.

[Cost-effectiveness of coronary heart disease prevention].

[Article in German]

Wendland G(1), Klever-Deichert G, Lauterbach K.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gesundheitsökonomie und klinische Epidemiologie Gleueler Str. 
176-178 50933 Köln, Germany. guido.wendland@koeln.de

Most experts agree that prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) should be 
enforced. However doubt remains about how extensively pharmacological treatment 
should be applied. In the presence of strong financial constraints both issues 
emphasize the importance of health economic analyses in this area. This article 
describes important principles in health economics. As the effect of preventive 
measures can only be recognized after a considerable time lag, a long-term 
perspective has to be chosen. A suitable parameter are the costs per life year 
saved, which can be compared between otherwise completely different procedures. 
The assessment of different therapies depends strongly on parameters such as 
relative risk reduction, discount rate and costs for prevention. However it was 
shown that prevention with statins and anti-hypertensive therapy can be 
cost-effective, as the mortality reduction and hence the increase in life 
expectancy can be considerable. Further research is necessary, e.g., to 
investigate possible reductions of other vascular diseases, to acquire more 
knowledge about long-term cost-consequences.

PMID: 12436765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Singapore Med J. 2002 Jul;43(7):340-4.

The social cost of smoking in Singapore.

Quah E(1), Tan KC, Saw SL, Yong JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 
ecsquahe@nus.edu.sg

This study provides estimates for the cost of smoking in Singapore in 1997.A 
first attempt for Singapore, the paper reports on two different methods used, 
namely, the human capital approach and the demographic approach. These two 
measures are similar in that they compare the economic cost of smoking in the 
actual situation with the hypothetical alternative where there had been no 
smoking. The direct cost of smoking includes the amount spent on hospital care 
for five main diseases related to smoking whilst the indirect cost includes the 
value of lost income. The mortality cost of smoking is derived from the 
aetiological fractions of these diseases. The results from the human capital 
approach show that the social cost of smoking in 1997 ranged from S$673 million 
to S$839 million. Assuming there has been no smoking since 1990, calculations 
from the demographic approach indicate that national output would have increased 
by S$614 million in 1998. Nonetheless, the results from both approaches show 
that most of the cost of smoking is incurred by males.

PMID: 12437040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Nov 25;162(21):2478-86. doi:
10.1001/archinte.162.21.2478.

Cost-effectiveness implications of the timing of antiretroviral therapy in 
HIV-infected adults.

Schackman BR(1), Freedberg KA, Weinstein MC, Sax PE, Losina E, Zhang H, Goldie 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: The appropriate time to initiate antiretroviral therapy is 
controversial for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with CD4 
cell counts between 200/microL and 350/microL and low levels of HIV RNA, 
potentially leading to barriers to treatment access.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of cholesterol changes and fat redistribution 
symptoms on the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of early antiretroviral 
therapy in these patients.
METHODS: We used a state-transition model to compare initiating antiretroviral 
therapy at CD4 cell counts of 350/microL (early therapy) with initiating therapy 
at CD4 cell counts of 200/microL (deferred therapy) in patients with HIV RNA 
levels of 10,000 to 30,000 copies/mL. Data were from randomized clinical trials, 
cohort studies, and other published literature.
RESULTS: If cholesterol changes associated with antiretroviral therapy resulted 
in a permanent increase in coronary heart disease risk, life expectancy with 
early therapy was 16.54 years (vs 16.66 years without this risk) and with 
deferred therapy was 13.73 years (vs 13.80 years without this risk). Early 
therapy was a more efficient use of resources (ie, dominated) compared with 
deferred therapy. Early therapy cost $13,000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
compared with no therapy with or without increased coronary heart disease risk, 
and $17,000 to $24,000 per quality-adjusted life-year taking into account the 
quality-of-life reduction in patients with fat distribution symptoms. Early 
therapy had a higher quality-adjusted life expectancy than deferred therapy as 
long as this quality-of-life reduction was 70% or less.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in cholesterol or quality of life associated with 
antiretroviral therapy do not justify limiting access to early HIV treatment. 
The effect of fat redistribution symptoms on quality of life will determine the 
optimal choice of early vs deferred therapy for an individual patient.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.21.2478
PMID: 12437408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Arch Dermatol. 2002 Nov;138(11):1427-8. doi: 10.1001/archderm.138.11.1427-a.

The demographics of aging in the United States: implications for dermatology.

Kosmadaki MG, Gilchrest BA.

DOI: 10.1001/archderm.138.11.1427-a
PMID: 12437445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Ageing Res Rev. 2003 Jan;2(1):39-56. doi: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00049-1.

Garlic and aging: new insights into an old remedy.

Rahman K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomolecular Sciences, Liverpool John Moores University, Byrom 
Street, L3 3AF, Liverpool, UK. k.rahman@livjm.ac.uk

There has been an impressive gain in individual life expectancy with parallel 
increases in age-related chronic diseases of the cardiovascular, brain and 
immune systems. These can cause loss of autonomy, dependence and high social 
costs for individuals and society. It is now accepted that aging and age-related 
diseases are in part caused by free radical reactions. The arrest of aging and 
stimulation of rejuvenation of the human body is also being sought. Over the 
last 20 years the use of herbs and natural products has gained popularity and 
these are being consumed backed by epidemiological evidence. One such herb is 
garlic, which has been used throughout the history of civilization for treating 
a wide variety of ailments associated with aging. The role of garlic in 
preventing age-related diseases has been investigated extensively over the last 
10-15 years. Garlic has strong antioxidant properties and it has been suggested 
that garlic can prevent cardiovascular disease, inhibit platelet aggregation, 
thrombus formation, prevent cancer, diseases associated with cerebral aging, 
arthritis, cataract formation, and rejuvenate skin, improve blood circulation 
and energy levels. This review provides an insight in to garlic's antioxidant 
properties and presents evidence that it may either prevent or delay chronic 
diseases associated with aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s1568-1637(02)00049-1
PMID: 12437995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 2002 Dec;45(4):1073-9. doi: 
10.1097/00003081-200212000-00015.

Overview of women's health.

Leppert PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Research, National Institute of Child Health and Human 
Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, 20892, USA. 
leppertp@mail.nih.gov

DOI: 10.1097/00003081-200212000-00015
PMID: 12438885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2002 Nov;24(8):613-21. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200211000-00004.

Intensified chemotherapy increases the survival rates in patients with stage 4 
neuroblastoma with MYCN amplification.

Kaneko M(1), Tsuchida Y, Mugishima H, Ohnuma N, Yamamoto K, Kawa K, Iwafuchi M, 
Sawada T, Suita S.

Author information:
(1)Study Group of Japan for Treatment of Advanced Neuroblastoma, and Department 
of Pediatric Surgery, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.

Comment in
    J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2002 Nov;24(8):608-9.

PURPOSE: Patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who have multiple copies of MYCN 
fare much worse than do those without MYCN amplification; however, it has not 
been clarified whether intensified chemotherapy with or without blood stem cell 
transplantation can alter the extremely poor prognosis of patients with 
amplified MYCN.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 1985 and 1999, 301 patients older than age 12 
months with stage 4 neuroblastoma were treated. From January 1985 to February 
1991, 80 patients with stage 4 neuroblastoma with and without MYCN amplification 
uniformly received induction chemotherapy with regimen A(1) (cyclophosphamide 
1,200 mg/m(2) and vincristine 1.5 mg/m(2) on day 1, tetra-hydropyranyl 
[THP]-Adriamycin 40 mg/m(2) on day 3, and cisplatin 90 mg/m(2) on day 5). Among 
22 patients with MYCN amplification, nine (40.9%) achieved a complete remission 
and seven (31.8%) underwent stem cell transplantation. Of 58 patients without 
MYCN amplification, 43 (74.1%) achieved a complete remission and 14 (24.1%) 
underwent stem cell transplantation. The 5-year relapse-free survival rates were 
23.2% for stage 4 patients with MYCN amplification and 33.3% for those without 
MYCN amplification (P = 0.029); the 5-year overall survival rates were 32.8% for 
stage 4 patients with MYCN amplification and 42.8% for those without MYCN 
amplification (P > 0.05). From March 1991 to June 1998, patients with stage 4 
neuroblastoma who had 10 or more copies of MYCN were treated with regimen A(3) 
(cyclophosphamide 1,200 mg/m(2) per day on days 1 and 2, THP-Adriamycin 40 
mg/m(2) on day 3, etoposide 100 mg/m(2) per day on days 1 to 5, and cisplatin 25 
mg/m(2) per day on days 1 to 5); those with fewer than 10 copies of MYCN 
received regimen new A (cyclophosphamide 1,200 mg/m on day 1, THP-Adriamycin 40 
mg/m on day 3, etoposide 100 mg/m per day on days 1 to 5, and cisplatin 90 mg/m 
on day 5), which is similar in intensity to regimen A. Among 88 patients with 
MYCN amplification, 63 (71.6%) achieved a complete remission and 63 (71.68%) 
underwent stem cell transplantation. Of 133 patients without MYCN amplification, 
93 (69.9%) achieved a complete remission and 71 (53.4%) underwent stem cell 
transplantation. The 5-year relapse-free survival rates were 36.0% for stage 4 
patients with MYCN amplification and 32.2% for those without MYCN amplification 
(P > 0.05), the 5-year overall survival rates were 34.0% for stage 4 patients 
with MYCN amplification and 38.9% for those without MYCN amplification (P > 
0.05). The difference in relapse-free survival rates was significantly different 
(P = 0.003) between patients with MYCN-amplified tumor treated before (regimen 
A(1)) versus after 1991 (regimen A(3)).
CONCLUSIONS: With the use of the more intensive induction regimen A plus blood 
stem cell transplantation for MYCN-amplified patients, survival curves for those 
with or without MYCN amplification now appear similar. Higher doses of 
chemotherapy may ameliorate the effect of MYCN amplification in patients with 
high-risk neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200211000-00004
PMID: 12439032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2002 Nov;24(8):636-42. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200211000-00007.

Methotrexate polyglutamation may lack prognostic significance in children with 
B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated with intensive oral 
methotrexate.

Mantadakis E(1), Smith AK, Hynan L, Winick NJ, Kamen BA.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Clinic, PEPAGNI University Hospital of Iraklio, 
Crete, Greece.

Comment in
    J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2002 Dec;24(9):704-5.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine if a correlation exists 
between clinical outcome and accumulation and polyglutamation of methotrexate by 
lymphoblasts in vitro in children with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (BCP-ALL).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The amount of accumulated methotrexate and of long-chain 
methotrexate polyglutamates (MTXPG(3-7)) by lymphoblasts was determined in 52 
children newly diagnosed with BCP-ALL after incubation with 1 micromol/L 
[(3)H]MTX for 24 hours in vitro. All patients then received intensive multiagent 
chemotherapy that used divided-dose oral methotrexate during consolidation and 
intensive continuation and standard oral weekly methotrexate during maintenance.
RESULTS: Eight patients had a bone marrow relapse at a median of 40.4 months 
(range 18.5-48.3 months) after diagnosis. The median follow-up for the remaining 
44 patients is 69.0 months (range 22-92.8 months). There was no significant 
difference in the amount of accumulated methotrexate (1450.0 +/- 896.3 vs. 640 
+/- 472.5 pmol/10 cells) or of accumulated MTXPG (1450.0 +/- 919.4 vs. 617.4 +/- 
482.7 pmol/10(9) cells) (median +/- semi-interquartile ranges) between patients 
who relapsed and those who remained in continuous complete remission. The 
estimated 5-year event-free survival rate for patients whose lymphoblasts 
accumulated more than 500 pmol MTXPG(3-7)/10(9) cells was 80.0% +/- 7.3% versus 
90.5% +/- 6.4% for those whose lymphoblasts accumulated less than 500 pmol 
MTXPG(3-7)/10(9) cells.
CONCLUSIONS: In the context of effective prolonged divided-dose oral 
methotrexate-based therapy in the treatment of BCP-ALL, methotrexate 
accumulation and polyglutamation no longer seem to have prognostic significance.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200211000-00007
PMID: 12439035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Nov;14(11):1279-82. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-200211000-00020.

Cardiac compromise due to a pancreatic mediastinal pseudocyst.

Tan MH(1), Kirk G, Archibold P, Kennedy P, Regan MC.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery and Radiology, The Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, 
UK.

Cardiac complications from a pancreatic mediastinal pseudocyst are rare. 
Pericardial effusions associated with pancreatitis have been reported only very 
occasionally. To the best of our knowledge, the direct extension of a pancreatic 
pseudocyst into the pericardial sac causing tamponade has not been described 
before. We present a case in which a pancreatic pseudocyst masquerading as a 
pericardial effusion dissected into the mediastinum, eroding into the 
pericardial sac and causing a life-threatening pericardial tamponade. A 
pericardial catheter was placed producing rapid symptomatic relief. Surgery was 
avoided by the use of octreotide as an adjuvant to ultrasound guided catheter 
drainage of the pseudocyst and it resolved completely within 4 weeks of 
admission to hospital. The importance of rapid and accurate diagnosis of this 
life-threatening complication is reiterated and the management of pancreatic 
mediastinal pseudocyst is discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-200211000-00020
PMID: 12439127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Laryngoscope. 2002 Nov;112(11):1975-8. doi: 10.1097/00005537-200211000-00012.

External auditory canal stenosis after radiation therapy.

Carls JL(1), Mendenhall WM, Morris CG, Antonelli PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Florida, Gainesville 32610-0264, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the risk of external auditory canal stenosis 
from external-beam radiation therapy is dose dependent.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
METHODS: The presence of external auditory canal disease was recorded for 
patients who received low-dose (e.g., lymphoma [20-40 Gy]), medium-dose (e.g., 
chemodectoma [40-55 Gy]), or high-dose (e.g., parotid and nasopharyngeal 
neoplasms [55-75 Gy]) external-beam radiation therapy from 6 months to over 8 
years following treatment. The incidence of external auditory canal disease was 
compared between groups.
RESULTS: None of 13 low-dose, none of 19 medium-dose, and 8 of 91 (8.7%) 
high-dose external-beam radiation therapy subjects developed ipsilateral 
external auditory canal stenosis. No external auditory canal stenosis developed 
in patients treated with high-dose external-beam radiation therapy in the 
absence of parotid surgery. External auditory canal stenosis developed only in 
patients treated with parotidectomy and high-dose external-beam radiation 
therapy (P =.0059), and all of these cases of external auditory canal stenosis 
developed within 3 years of radiation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: High dose external-beam radiation therapy alone does not 
significantly predispose patients to external auditory canal stenosis. However, 
combined high-dose external-beam radiation therapy and surgery around the 
external auditory canal do significantly increase the risk of external auditory 
canal stenosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00005537-200211000-00012
PMID: 12439165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Immunother. 2002 Nov-Dec;25(6):489-99. doi:
10.1097/00002371-200211000-00005.

Prospective pilot study of recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating 
factor and interferon-gamma in patients with inoperable hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Reinisch W(1), Holub M, Katz A, Herneth A, Lichtenberger C, Schoniger-Hekele M, 
Waldhoer T, Oberhuber G, Ferenci P, Gangl A, Mueller C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Division of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. walter.reinisch@akh-wien.ac.at

Interferon (IFN)-gamma and Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor 
(GM-CSF) enhance tumor immunogenicity. The authors assessed tolerability and 
effectiveness of a combination therapy of these recombinant human (rh) cytokines 
in patients with inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In a monocentric, 
open, nonrandomized pilot study, rhGM-CSF (5 microg/kg qd, Monday and Tuesday) 
and rhIFN-gamma (100 microg qd, Wednesday and Thursday) were subcutaneously 
administered in 9-week cycles. Primary objective was survival, as secondary 
outcomes volumetric changes of tumor mass and biologic parameters reflecting 
systemic immunologic or local tumor responses were measured. Only patients with 
complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) proceeded 
to new treatment cycles. Fifteen patients (median 63 years, range 46-74 years, 
all men) were enrolled. Survival after the first cycle was 80% with SD in 9 of 
15 patients (60%). PR was detected in one patient after the second cycle. Two 
patients finished five treatment cycles. Overall survival at 26 and 52 weeks was 
40% and 20%, respectively. Median survival in patients with inducible HLA-DR on 
hepatoma cells (40%) was increased (42 weeks, 27-100) as compared with HLA-DR 
negative cases (60%; 13 weeks, 8-23; p < 0.0001), and a control group (p = 
0.01). Parameters reflecting systemic immunomodulatory activities were not 
associated with clinical outcome. In 13 of 15 patients (87%), adverse events 
were reported, all less than grade 2 and none requiring therapy discontinuation. 
Immunotherapeutic approaches hold promise to prolong survival in selected 
patients with advanced HCC who respond by enhanced tumor immunogenicity.

DOI: 10.1097/00002371-200211000-00005
PMID: 12439346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Eur Radiol. 2002 Dec;12(12):2933-42. doi: 10.1007/s00330-002-1358-6. Epub
2002  Jul 20.

Abdominal leiomyosarcomas: radiologic appearances at various locations.

Kurugoglu S(1), Ogut G, Mihmanli I, Korman U, Durak H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Istanbul University, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, 
34300 Istanbul, Turkey. sebuh.k@superonline.com

Leiomyosarcomas are soft tissue tumors that account for approximately 15% of all 
soft tissue sarcomas. Leiomyosarcomas may be located at almost any part of the 
abdomen but especially are more common in the retroperitoneum, followed by 
gastrointestinal tract and genital system. They develop mainly in adult life and 
are very rare in children. In this article, imaging findings of leiomyosarcomas 
in various abdominal locations are presented. Radiologic studies are capable of 
providing useful information on the localization, size, changes in the internal 
structure of the tumor, its extension and invasion. Leiomyosarcoma should be 
considered in the differential diagnosis in case of detection of a large, 
circumscribed, and heterogenous abdominal mass. Histopathologically, diagnosis 
of malignancy depends particularly on mitotic counts, size, rate of necrosis, 
and infiltrating margins.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-002-1358-6
PMID: 12439573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Ind Med. 2002 Dec;42(6):474-80. doi: 10.1002/ajim.10138.

Benzene exposure and hematopoietic mortality: A long-term epidemiologic risk 
assessment.

Rinsky RA(1), Hornung RW, Silver SR, Tseng CY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surveillance, Hazard Evaluations, and Field Studies, National 
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies of a cohort of rubber hydrochloride workers 
indicated an association between benzene exposure and excess mortality from 
leukemia and multiple myeloma. To determine whether risks remain elevated with 
increasing time since plant shutdown, we extended follow-up from 1981 through 
1996.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated risk using standardized mortality ratios 
(SMR) and generalized Cox proportional hazards regression models.
RESULTS: Five new leukemia cases were observed in benzene-exposed white males, 
but the summary SMR for this group declined from 3.37 (95% CI = 1.54-6.41) to 
2.56 (95% CI = 1.43-4.22). In regression models, cumulative exposure was 
significantly associated with elevated relative risks for leukemia mortality. 
Four new multiple myeloma deaths occurred, three of which were in workers judged 
to be unexposed.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings reaffirm the leukemogenic effects of benzene 
exposure and suggest that excess risk diminishes with time.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.10138
PMID: 12439870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Work. 2001;16(3):245-258.

The best practice for gaining and maintaining employment for individuals with 
traumatic brain injury.

Holzberg E(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University, Sargent College, 635 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, MA 
02215, USA.

There are currently 5.3 million Americans with traumatic brain injury, the 
majority were young at onset and have a lengthy life expectancy. Return to work 
is a key to quality of life for many of these individuals. This article provides 
a literature review of current traumatic brain injury vocational rehabilitation 
programs including: holistic cognitive rehabilitation, school to work 
transition, and supportive employment followed by a proposal for the best 
practice.

PMID: 12441454


52. Work. 2001;16(3):269-272.

HIV/AIDS and work: The implications for occupational therapy.

Salz F(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.

Improvements in preventive and rehabilitative care have transformed many cases 
of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) from being an absolute fatal disease to a 
chronic, expensive illness. As survival rates and life expectancy increase for 
people with HIV/AIDS, work plays a more central role in improving their quality 
of life [5]. Persons with HIV/AIDS face numerous physical challenges in 
maintaining employment. Signs and symptoms of HIV infection and related 
opportunistic infections include fatigue, muscle weakness, neuropathy and 
decreased sensation, bowel and bladder incontinence, persistent cough, weight 
loss, decreased range of motion and coordination, limited endurance, cardiac 
problems and vision loss. Occupational therapy practitioners must identify the 
unique impact they can make on a client's quality of life by addressing 
work-related issues faced by the HIV/AIDS population.

PMID: 12441456


53. Work. 1999;13(3):211-215.

Positive employment service - facilitating employment for people living with 
HIV.

Yallop SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Royal North Shore Hospital, Northern 
Sydney Area Health Service, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

As treatments and therapies develop and improve, enhancing life expectancy, 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) has been described by some as a long term 
chronic condition rather than an acute life threatening illness. As this change 
occurs, new issues become relevant for the person living with HIV, employment 
being one of these. In light of this, the Positive Employment Service was 
developed and implemented to explore and address some of the issues related to 
employment for people living with HIV. The original concept for the service was 
primarily focused on vocational rehabilitation; however, it soon became clear 
that there was a need for a prevocational service facilitating transition and 
adjustment to productivity roles. The service was developed using approaches 
from Vocational and Occupational Therapy Models of Practice. This article 
discusses the challenges of developing and implementing this service and 
explores the unique perspective that occupational therapy brings to a position 
of this kind.

PMID: 12441546


54. J Urol. 2002 Dec;168(6):2476-82. doi: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)64172-9.

Transurethral prostate resection, noncontact laser therapy or conservative 
management in men with symptoms of benign prostatic enlargement? An economic 
evaluation.

Noble SM(1), Coast J, Brookes S, Neal DE, Abrams P, Peters TJ, Donovan JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Medical Research Council Health Services 
Research Collaboration, Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, 
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of noncontact laser therapy 
compared with transurethral prostate resection and conservative treatment in men 
with symptoms associated with benign prostatic enlargement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 340 men with uncomplicated lower urinary tract 
symptoms participated in a large multicenter pragmatic randomized trial called 
the CLasP (Conservative management, Laser therapy, transurethral resection of 
the Prostate) study. Costs to the United Kingdom National Health Service and 
patients were determined from the time of randomization to the 7.5-month 
followup. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios using conservative management as 
the base case were calculated for certain trial outcomes, including 
International Prostate Symptom Score (I-PSS), I-PSS quality of life score, 
maximum urinary flow, post-void residual urine volume, quality adjusted 
life-years and a composite measure of success based on I-PSS and maximum urinary 
flow. One-way sensitivity analysis of the basic costs and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were done from the NHS viewpoint.
RESULTS: Mean costs per patient were greatest for noncontact laser therapy and 
least for conservative management. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
showed that transurethral prostate resection was more cost-effective than 
noncontact laser treatment for all primary trial outcomes. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of transurethral prostate resection compared with 
conservative management were pound 81 per unit decrease in the I-PSS score and 
pound 1,338 per additional successful case per 100 patients. Sensitivity 
analysis showed that the initial results were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Noncontact laser was the mostly costly treatment option. 
Transurethral prostate resection was more cost-effective than noncontact laser 
therapy in terms of symptomatic improvement. In men wishing to delay treatment 
conservative treatment appears to provide a cost-effective alternative in the 
short term.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)64172-9
PMID: 12441944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Diabetes Metab. 2002 Sep;28(4 Pt 2):2S27-2S32.

[Perspectives for diabetes treatment through pancreas transplantation or islet 
transplantation].

[Article in French]

Oberholzer J(1), Morel P.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Chirurgie Viscérale, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Suisse, 
Switzerland. celtrans@cmu.unige.ch

Replacement of beta-cell function by transplantation of endocrine tissue is an 
alternative treatment for patients with complicated type 1 diabetes. Pancreas 
transplantation is presently the only treatment allowing to normalise glycemia 
without increasing the risk of hypoglycemia and to stop exogenous 
insulin-therapy. In spite of postoperative morbidity and mortality, pancreas 
transplantation improves quality of life, reduces cardiovascular risk factors 
and prolongs the life expectancy of diabetic patients with end-stage kidney 
failure. Islet transplantation is still an experimental procedure. However, the 
results obtained recently are a proof of principle that a cellular transplant 
can induce normoglycemia and insulin-independence in diabetic patients. In this 
review, the results and perspectives of pancreas and islet transplantation are 
discussed.

PMID: 12442061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Acta Oncol. 2002;41(5):418-24. doi: 10.1080/028418602320404998.

Randomized trial of single agent paclitaxel given weekly versus every three 
weeks and with peroral versus intravenous steroid premedication to patients with 
ovarian cancer previously treated with platinum.

Rosenberg P(1), Andersson H, Boman K, Ridderheim M, Sorbe B, Puistola U, Parö G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecological Oncology, University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden. 
per.rosenberg@lio.se

The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of paclitaxel 
given at the same dose intensity and administered weekly (arm A) or every 3 
weeks (arm B). and to assess the safety of intravenous steroids versus standard 
peroral premedication. Two hundred and eight patients with advanced ovarian 
cancer previously treated with no more than one platinum-containing regimen were 
randomized to receive either a weekly infusion of paclitaxel or an infusion 
every 3 weeks. The median delivered dose intensity was 77.6 mg/m2/week in the 
weekly arm, and 72.7 mg/m2/week in the every 3 weeks arm. WHO grade 3-4 
hematological and non-hematological toxicity occurred more frequently in arm B. 
No difference in number of severe events of hypersensitivity, response rate, 
time to progression or survival between arms was observed. Weekly paclitaxel at 
a dose of 67 mg/m2/week was found to have a better safety profile and seemed to 
be as effective as the equivalently dosed schedule every 3 weeks. Intravenous 
steroids are a safe alternative to oral steroids.

DOI: 10.1080/028418602320404998
PMID: 12442916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Acta Oncol. 2002;41(5):437-43. doi: 10.1080/028418602320405023.

Prognostic significance of intratumour microvessel density and haemoglobin level 
in carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

Gasinska A(1), Urbanski K, Adamczyk A, Pudelek J, Lind BK, Brahme A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Oncology, Krakow Branch, Poland. z5gasins@cyf-kr.edu.pl

The prognostic significance of intratumour microvessel density (IMD) and 
haemoglobin (Hb) level was studied in 152 (FIGO stage IB-IIIB) cervical cancer 
patients before radiotherapy. Patients' age and tumour stage, grade and degree 
of keratinization were also studied. IMD measurement expressed as the mean 
vessel count per 1 mm2 was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumour 
biopsies stained with anti-factor VIII antibody (DAKO Ltd.) using 
immunohistochemistry and the vascular hot-spot technique. The median age of 
patients was 55 years (29-80). Median values for IMD and Hb level were: 142.5 
(range 56.3-476.6) vessels/mm2 and 129 (range 81-160) gil, respectively. The 
median time of follow-up was 26 months, with a range of 2-145 months. Tumour 
stage (p = 0.7009), grade (p = 0.6660) and degree of keratinization (0.2669) 
were not significant in the Kaplan-Meier univariate analysis. However, patients' 
age > 50 years (p = 0.0079). high vascularity (IMD > 190.0 vessels/mm2, minimal 
cut-off point, p = 0.0503) and Hb concentration > 116 g/l (p = 0.0213) were 
favourable prognostic factors for cervical cancer treated with radiotherapy. In 
the Cox multivariate analysis only higher vascularity (IMD > 190/mm2 and Hb 
concentration > 116 g/l were favourable prognostic factors in terms of patients' 
survival. However, when a Cox analysis was done separately for keratinizing and 
non-keratinizing tumours, it was found that higher vascularity was significant 
only for keratinizing, and higher Hb level only for non-keratinizing cancers.

DOI: 10.1080/028418602320405023
PMID: 12442919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Acta Oncol. 2002;41(5):447-56. doi: 10.1080/028418602320405041.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and methotrexate in patients with 
muscle-invasive bladder tumours.

Sengeløv L(1), von der Maase H, Lundbeck F, Barlebo H, Colstrup H, Engelholm SA, 
Krarup T, Madsen EL, Meyhoff HH, Mommsen S, Nielsen OS, Pedersen D, Steven K, 
