Sørensen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital Herlev, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
lisa.sengelov@dadlnet.dk

This prospective, randomized study based on two associated trials was designed 
to evaluate the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and 
methotrexate with folinic acid rescue or no chemotherapy prior to local 
treatment in patients with T2-T4b, NX-3, MO transitional cell carcinoma of the 
bladder. In the first trial, local treatment consisted of cystectomy (DAVECA 
8901) and in the other trial the treatment was radiotherapy (DAVECA 8902); 153 
eligible patients were randomized. The majority of the patients (89%) completed 
the protocol. The overall time to progression for all 153 patients was 12.9 
months. Median time to progression was 14.2 months with chemotherapy and 11.4 
months without chemotherapy. The actuarial 5-year overall survival rate for all 
153 patients was 29%, and 29% for both treatment groups. Multivariate analyses 
showed that T-stage, tumour size and serum creatinine were independent 
prognostic factors for survival. The cystectomy trial included 33 patients. 
Median survival was 78.9 months, 82.5 months with chemotherapy and 45.8 months 
without chemotherapy (p = 0.76). The radiotherapy trial included 120 patients. 
The median survival was 17.6 months. Median survival was 19.2 months in the 
group receiving chemotherapy and 16.3 in the group not receiving chemotherapy. 
The 5-year survival rate was 19% in the group receiving chemotherapy and 24% in 
the groups not receiving chemotherapy (p = 0.98). Late toxicity grade 3 or 4 of 
the bladder was recorded in 25% of the patients (actuarial rate). Neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy with cisplatin and methotrexate did not significantly improve 
disease-free or overall survival in 153 randomized patients with invasive 
bladder cancer.

DOI: 10.1080/028418602320405041
PMID: 12442921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Acta Oncol. 2002;41(5):463-70. doi: 10.1080/028418602320405069.

Cell cycle inhibitors and outcome after radiotherapy in bladder cancer patients.

Røtterud R(1), Pettersen EO, Berner A, Holm R, Olsen DR, Fosså SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo. 
ranveiro@ulrik.uio.no

The aim of this study was to correlate the expression of cell cycle inhibitors 
with outcome of patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer treated with 
preoperative radiotherapy (46 Gy/4-5 weeks or 20 Gy/1 week) and cystectomy. 
Patients with pT3b (n = 42) or pT0 (n = 17) were included in the study. 
Expression of p16INK4a and p27KIP1 was assessed immunohistochemically in 
pre-radiotherapy biopsies and cystectomy specimens. Previously reported results 
of p21CP1 expression were also included. No difference in pretreatment protein 
expression was found between patients with pT0 and pT3b. Expression of p21CIP1 
and p27KIP1 was lower in cystectomy specimens than in pretreatment biopsies. 
None of the proteins showed significant impact on survival when analysed 
separately. However, patients with tumours showing > 50% expression of p16INK4a, 
p21CIP1, or p27KIP1 displayed poorer cancer-specific survival rates compared 
with the remaining patients (p = 0.025). This effect was more pronounced in 
patients receiving 46 Gy than in those receiving 20 Gy. In conclusion, low 
expression of cell cycle inhibitors is related to favourable survival after 
pre-cystectomy radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1080/028418602320405069
PMID: 12442923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):821-32. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00254.

Risk analysis, life cycle assessment--the common challenge of dealing with the 
precautionary frame (based on the toxicity controversy in Sweden and The 
Netherlands).

Tukker A(1).

Author information:
(1)TNO Institute of Strategy, Technology and Policy, Delft, The Netherlands. 
Tukker@stb.tno.nl

Life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) and comparative risk assessment (RA) use the 
same building blocks for analyzing fate and potential effects of toxic 
substances. It is tacitly assumed that emission-effect calculations can give 
uniform and decisive answers in debates on toxicity problems. For several 
decades, mainstream policy sciences have taken a different starting point when 
analyzing decision making on complex, controversial societal issues. Such 
controversies in essence are thought to be caused by the fact that different 
actor coalitions adhere to a different, but in scientific terms equally 
reasonable, conceptualization or "framing" of the problem. A historical, 
argumentative analysis of the Dutch chlorine debate and the Swedish PVC debate 
shows that this is also true in the discussions on toxic substances. Three 
frames have been identified, which were coined the "risk assessment frame," "the 
strict control frame," and the "precautionary frame." These frames tacitly 
disagree about the extent of knowledge/ignorance about the impacts of 
substances, the robustness/fallibility of emission-reduction schemes, and the 
robustness/vulnerability of nature. The latter frame, adhered to by 
environmentalists, seeks to judge substances mainly on their inherent safety. 
Under the current institutional arrangements and practices, RA and LCIA are 
executed mainly in line with the philosophy expressed by the risk assessment 
frame. This article gives various suggestions for dealing with framing in 
debates on toxic substances. One of the options is elaborated in somewhat more 
detail, i.e., the development of multiple indicators and calculation schemes for 
RA and LCIA that reflect the different frames. An outline is given for a 
possible indicator system reflecting the precautionary principle.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00254
PMID: 12442982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):853-60. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00256.

Life cycle impact assessment: a challenge for risk analysts.

Matthews HS(1), Lave L, MacLean H.

Author information:
(1)Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. hsm@cmu.edu

Modern technology, together with an advanced economy, can provide a good or 
service in myriad ways, giving us choices on what to produce and how to produce 
it. To make those choices more intelligently, society needs to know not only the 
market price of each alternative, but the associated health and environmental 
consequences. A fair comparison requires evaluating the consequences across the 
whole "life cycle"--from the extraction of raw materials and processing to 
manufacture/construction, use, and end-of-life--of each alternative. Focusing on 
only one stage (e.g., manufacture) of the life cycle is often misleading. 
Unfortunately, analysts and researchers still have only rudimentary tools to 
quantify the materials and energy inputs and the resulting damage to health and 
the environment. Life cycle assessment (LCA) provides an overall framework for 
identifying and evaluating these implications. Since the 1960s, considerable 
progress has been made in developing methods for LCA, especially in 
characterizing, qualitatively and quantitatively, environmental discharges. 
However, few of these analyses have attempted to assess the quantitative impact 
on the environment and health of material inputs and environmental discharges 
Risk analysis and LCA are connected closely. While risk analysis has 
characterized and quantified the health risks of exposure to a toxicant, the 
policy implications have not been clear. Inferring that an occupational or 
public health exposure carries a nontrivial risk is only the first step in 
formulating a policy response. A broader framework, including LCA, is needed to 
see which response is likely to lower the risk without creating high risks 
elsewhere. Even more important, LCA has floundered at the stage of translating 
an inventory of environmental discharges into estimates of impact on health and 
the environment. Without the impact analysis, policymakers must revert to some 
simple rule, such as that all discharges, regardless of which chemical, which 
medium, and where they are discharged, are equally toxic. Thus, risk analysts 
should seek LCA guidance in translating a risk analysis into policy conclusions 
or even advice to those at risk. LCA needs the help of RA to go beyond 
simplistic assumptions about the implications of a discharge inventory. We 
demonstrate the need and rationale for LCA, present a brief history of LCA, 
present examples of the application of this tool, note the limitations of LCA 
models, and present several methods for incorporating risk assessment into LCA. 
However, we warn the reader not to expect too much. A comprehensive comparison 
of the health and environmental implications of alternatives is beyond the state 
of the art. LCA is currently not able to provide risk analysts with detailed 
information on the chemical form and location of the environmental discharges 
that would allow detailed estimation of the risks to individuals due to 
toxicants. For example, a challenge for risk analysts is to estimate health and 
other risks where the location and chemical speciation are not characterized 
precisely. Providing valuable information to decisionmakers requires advances in 
both LCA and risk analysis. These two disciplines should be closely linked, 
since each has much to contribute to the other.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00256
PMID: 12442984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):861-77. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00257.

Public participation in life cycle assessment and risk assessment: a shared 
need.

Anex RP(1), Focht W.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Science and Public Policy, University of Oklahoma, USA. 
rpanex@ou.edu

Life cycle assessment (LCA) and risk assessment are operationally different but 
share the common purpose of supporting decisions about reducing threats to human 
welfare. Both analysis methods also involve a complex mixture of science and 
value judgments reflecting epistemological as well as moral and esthetic values. 
The inability of risk assessment and LCA to be "value free" has been a source of 
considerable controversy in both communities. Recognition of the contingent and 
social nature of human interpretation of the risks and environmental impacts 
created by public and private decisions has led to an increased appreciation of 
the importance of involving interested and affected parties in risk 
characterization. Comparison of the value-based nature of LCA and risk 
assessment demonstrates the need for participation in LCA. Although the need for 
participation by affected parties in decision-making processes is gaining 
acceptance, there is little agreement as to how participation should be 
structured. Risk assessment and LCA have a shared need for research examining 
the design and analysis of participation processes appropriate to a given 
decision context. A proposed framework recommends participation strategies 
designed to enhance the effectiveness of policy-driven analyses such as risk 
assessment and LCA based on the level of trust that interested and affected 
parties have for other policy participants.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00257
PMID: 12442985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):879-94. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00258.

Use of risk assessment and life cycle assessment in decision making: a common 
policy research agenda.

Cowell SJ(1), Fairman R, Lofstedt RE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Environmental Strategy, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.

Quantitative risk assessment (RA) and life cycle assessment (LCA) are both 
analytical tools used to support decision making in environmental management. 
They have been developed and used by largely separate groups of specialists, and 
it is worth considering whether there is a common research agenda that may 
increase the relevance of these tools in decision-making processes. The validity 
of drawing comparisons between use of the tools is established through examining 
key aspects of the two approaches for their similarities and differences, 
including the nature of each approach and contextual and methodological aspects. 
Six case studies involving use of each approach in public decision making are 
described and used to draw out concerns about using RA and LCA in this context. 
The following categories of concern can be distinguished: philosophical approach 
of the tools; quantitative versus qualitative assessment; stakeholder 
participation; the nature of the results; and the usefulness of the results in 
relation to time and financial resource requirements. These can be distilled 
into a common policy research agenda focusing on: the legitimacy of using tools 
built on a particular perspective in decision making; recognition and role of 
value judgments in RA and LCA; treatment of uncertainty and variability; the 
influence of analytical tools in focusing attention on particular aspects of a 
decision-making situation; and understandability of the results for 
nonspecialists. It is concluded that it is time to bring together the 
experiences of RA and LCA specialists and benefit from cross-fertilization of 
ideas.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00258
PMID: 12442986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):895-904. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00259.

A regression-based approach for estimating primary and secondary particulate 
matter intake fractions.

Levy JL(1), Wolff SK, Evans JS.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health and 
Center for Risk Analysis, Boston, MA 02215, USA. jilevy@hsph.harvard.edu

One of the common challenges for life cycle impact assessment and risk 
assessment is the need to estimate the population exposures associated with 
emissions. The concept of intake fraction (a unitless term representing the 
fraction of material or its precursor released from a source that is eventually 
inhaled or ingested) can be used when limited site data are available or the 
number of sources to model is large. Although studies have estimated intake 
fractions for some pollutant-source combinations, there is a need to quickly and 
accurately estimate intake fractions for sources and settings not previously 
evaluated. It would be expected that limited source or site information could be 
used to yield intake fraction estimates with reasonable accuracy. To test this 
theory, we developed regression models to predict intake fractions previously 
estimated for primary fine particles (PM2.5) and secondary sulfate and nitrate 
particles from power plants and mobile sources in the United States. Our 
regression models were able to predict pollutant-specific intake fractions with 
R2 between 0.53 and 0.86 and equations that reflected expected relationships 
(e.g., intake fraction increased with population density, stack height 
influenced the intake fraction of primary but not secondary particles). Further 
analysis would be needed to generalize beyond this case study and construct 
models applicable across source categories and settings, but our analysis 
demonstrates that inclusion of a limited number of parameters can significantly 
reduce the uncertainty in population-average exposure estimates.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00259
PMID: 12442987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):905-18. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00260.

Intake fraction for multimedia pollutants: a tool for life cycle analysis and 
comparative risk assessment.

Bennett DH(1), Margni MD, McKone TE, Jolliet O.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Harvard University, USA.

We employ the intake fraction (iF) as an effective tool for expressing the 
source-to-intake relationship for pollutant emissions in life cycle analysis 
(LCA) or comparative risk assessment. Intake fraction is the fraction of 
chemical mass emitted into the environment that eventually passes into a member 
of the population through inhalation, ingestion, or dermal exposure. To date, 
this concept has been primarily applied to pollutants whose primary route of 
exposure is inhalation. Here we extend the use of iF to multimedia pollutants 
with multiple exposure pathways. We use a level III multimedia model to 
calculate iF for TCDD and compare the result to one calculated from measured 
levels of dioxin toxic equivalents in the environment. We calculate iF for 
emissions to air and surface water for 308 chemicals. We correlate the primary 
exposure route with the magnitudes of the octanol-water partition coefficient, 
Kow, and of the air-water partitioning coefficient (dimensionless Henry 
constant), Kaw. This results in value ranges of Kow and Kaw where the chemical 
exposure route can be classified with limited input data requirements as 
primarily inhalation, primarily ingestion, or multipathway. For the inhalation 
and ingestion dominant pollutants, we also define empirical relationships based 
on chemical properties for quantifying the intake fraction. The empirical 
relationships facilitate rapid evaluation of many chemicals in terms of the 
intake. By defining a theoretical upper limit for iF in a multimedia environment 
we find that iF calculations provide insight into the multimedia model 
algorithms and help identify unusual patterns of exposure and questionable 
exposure model results.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00260
PMID: 12442988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):919-30. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00261.

Life cycle emission distributions within the economy: implications for life 
cycle impact assessment.

Norris GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Sylvania, North Berwick, ME 03906, USA.

Refinements of methods for life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) are directed at 
removing unjustified simplifications and quantifying and reducing uncertainties 
in results. The amount of uncertainty reduction that is actually achieved 
through LCIA method refinement depends on the structure of the life cycle 
inventory model. We investigate the general structure of inventory models using 
an economic input/output (I/O) life cycle assessment model of the U.S. economy. 
In particular, we study the results of applying a streamlining algorithm to the 
I/O LCA model. The streamlining algorithm retains only those "branches" of the 
process tree that are jointly required to account for a specified fraction of 
the total impacts upstream of each point in the tree. We examine the 
implications of these "tree pruning" results for site-informed LCIA. Percentiles 
are presented for U.S. commodities and several important pollutants, for the 
share of total upstream emissions contributed by the set of processes in each 
supply tier, that is, each set of processes that directly supply inputs to 
another set of processes Capturing at least 90% of the total direct plus 
upstream emissions for criteria air pollutants and toxic releases for at least 
75% of the commodities in the U.S. economy requires full modeling of direct 
emissions plus the first five supply tiers. The requirements for capturing a 
high percentage (e.g., >80%) of total emissions vary widely across products or 
commodities. To capture more than 60% of total emissions for more than half of 
all commodities requires models with more than 4,000 process instances. To well 
characterize the total impacts of products, life cycle impact assessment methods 
must characterize foreground process impacts in a site-informed way and mean 
impacts of far-removed processes in an unbiased way.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00261
PMID: 12442989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):931-46. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00262.

Assessing human health response in life cycle assessment using ED10s and DALYs: 
part 1--Cancer effects.

Crettaz P(1), Pennington D, Rhomberg L, Brand K, Jolliet O.

Author information:
(1)Life Cycle Systems, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Lausanne.

Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a framework for comparing products according to 
their total estimated environmental impact, summed over all chemical emissions 
and activities associated with a product at all stages in its life cycle (from 
raw material acquisition, manufacturing, use, to final disposal). For each 
chemical involved, the exposure associated with the mass released into the 
environment, integrated over time and space, is multiplied by a toxicological 
measure to estimate the likelihood of effects and their potential consequences. 
In this article, we explore the use of quantitative methods drawn from 
conventional single-chemical regulatory risk assessments to create a procedure 
for the estimation of the cancer effect measure in the impact phase of LCA. The 
approach is based on the maximum likelihood estimate of the effect dose inducing 
a 10% response over background, ED10, and default linear low-dose extrapolation 
using the slope betaED10 (0.1/ED10). The calculated effects may correspond to 
residual risks below current regulatory compliance requirements that occur over 
multiple generations and at multiple locations; but at the very least they 
represent a "using up" of some portion of the human population's ability to 
accommodate emissions. Preliminary comparisons are performed with existing 
measures, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA's) slope 
factor measure q1*. By analyzing bioassay data for 44 chemicals drawn from the 
EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) database, we explore estimating 
ED10 from more readily available information such as the median tumor dose rate 
TD50 and the median single lethal dose LD50. Based on the TD50, we then estimate 
the ED10 for more than 600 chemicals. Differences in potential consequences, or 
severity, are addressed by combining betaED10 with the measure disability 
adjusted life years per affected person, DALYp. Most of the variation among 
chemicals for cancer effects is found to be due to differences in the slope 
factors (betaED10) ranging from 10(-4) up to 10(4) (risk of cancer/mg/kg-day).

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00262
PMID: 12442990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):947-63. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00263.

Assessing human health response in life cycle assessment using ED10s and DALYs: 
part 2--Noncancer effects.

Pennington D(1), Crettaz P, Tauxe A, Rhomberg L, Brand K, Jolliet O.

Author information:
(1)Life Cycle Systems, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Lausanne.

In Part 1 of this article we developed an approach for the calculation of cancer 
effect measures for life cycle assessment (LCA). In this article, we propose and 
evaluate the method for the screening of noncancer toxicological health effects. 
This approach draws on the noncancer health risk assessment concept of benchmark 
dose, while noting important differences with regulatory applications in the 
objectives of an LCA study. We adopt the centraltendency estimate of the 
toxicological effect dose inducing a 10% response over background, ED10, to 
provide a consistent point of departure for default linear low-dose response 
estimates (betaED10). This explicit estimation of low-dose risks, while 
necessary in LCA, is in marked contrast to many traditional procedures for 
noncancer assessments. For pragmatic reasons, mechanistic thresholds and 
nonlinear low-dose response curves were not implemented in the presented 
framework. In essence, for the comparative needs of LCA, we propose that one 
initially screens alternative activities or products on the degree to which the 
associated chemical emissions erode their margins of exposure, which may or may 
not be manifested as increases in disease incidence. We illustrate the method 
here by deriving the betaED10 slope factors from bioassay data for 12 chemicals 
and outline some of the possibilities for extrapolation from other more readily 
available measures, such as the no observable adverse effect levels (NOAEL), 
avoiding uncertainty factors that lead to inconsistent degrees of conservatism 
from chemical to chemical. These extrapolations facilitated the initial 
calculation of slope factors for an additional 403 compounds; ranging from 
10(-6) to 10(3) (risk per mg/kg-day dose). The potential consequences of the 
effects are taken into account in a preliminary approach by combining the 
betaED10 with the severity measure disability adjusted life years (DALY), 
providing a screening-level estimate of the potential consequences associated 
with exposures, integrated over time and space, to a given mass of chemical 
released into the environment for use in LCA.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00263
PMID: 12442991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):965-83. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00264.

Selecting human health metrics for environmental decision-support tools.

Hofstetter P(1), Hammitt JK.

Author information:
(1)U.S. EPA, National Risk Management Research Laboratory, USA. 
patrick_hofstetter@yahoo.com

Environmental decision-support tools often predict a multitude of different 
human health effects due to environmental stressors. The accounting and 
aggregating of these morbidity and mortality outcomes is key to support decision 
making and can be accomplished by different methods that we call human health 
metrics. This article attempts to answer two questions: Does it matter which 
metric is chosen? and What are the relevant characteristics of these metrics in 
environmental applications? Three metrics (quality adjusted life years (QALYs), 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs), and willingness to pay (WTP)) have been 
applied to the same diverse set of health effects due to environmental impacts. 
In this example, the choice of metric mattered for the ranking of these 
environmental impacts and it was found for this example that WTP was dominated 
by mortality outcomes. Further, QALYs and DALYs are sensitive to mild illnesses 
that affect large numbers of people and the severity of these mild illnesses are 
difficult to assess. Eight guiding questions are provided in order to help 
select human health metrics for environmental decision-support tools. Since 
health metrics tend to follow the paradigm of utility maximization, these 
metrics may be supplemented with a semi-quantitative discussion of 
distributional and ethical aspects. Finally, the magnitude of age-dependent 
disutility due to mortality for both monetary and nonmonetary metrics may bear 
the largest practical relevance for future research.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00264
PMID: 12442992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):985-1001. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00265.

QALYs versus WTP.

Hammit JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
jkh@hsph.harvard.edu

Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and willingness to pay (WTP) are alternative 
measures of the value of reductions in health risk that are often used in 
evaluating environmental, health, and safety practices. Although both methods 
are based on individual preferences, the underlying assumptions differ. The 
different bases yield systematically different conclusions about the relative 
value of reducing health and mortality risks to individuals that differ in age, 
preexisting health conditions, income, and other factors. The choice of which 
method to use depends on judgments about what constraints should be placed on 
individual preferences and what factors should be considered in aggregating 
preferences across people.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00265
PMID: 12442993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):1003-17. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00266.

Integrating risk assessment and life cycle assessment: a case study of 
insulation.

Nishioka Y(1), Levy JI, Norris GA, Wilson A, Hofstetter P, Spengler JD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health, Boston, 
MA 02215, USA. ynishiod@hsph.harvard.edu

Increasing residential insulation can decrease energy consumption and provide 
public health benefits, given changes in emissions from fuel combustion, but 
also has cost implications and ancillary risks and benefits. Risk assessment or 
life cycle assessment can be used to calculate the net impacts and determine 
whether more stringent energy codes or other conservation policies would be 
warranted, but few analyses have combined the critical elements of both 
methodologies In this article, we present the first portion of a combined 
analysis, with the goal of estimating the net public health impacts of 
increasing residential insulation for new housing from current practice to the 
latest International Energy Conservation Code (IECC 2000). We model 
state-by-state residential energy savings and evaluate particulate matter less 
than 2.5 microm in diameter (PM2.5), NOx, and SO2 emission reductions. We use 
past dispersion modeling results to estimate reductions in exposure, and we 
apply concentration-response functions for premature mortality and selected 
morbidity outcomes using current epidemiological knowledge of effects of PM2.5 
(primary and secondary). We find that an insulation policy shift would save 3 x 
10(14) British thermal units or BTU (3 x 10(17) J) over a 10-year period, 
resulting in reduced emissions of 1,000 tons of PM2.5, 30,000 tons of NOx, and 
40,000 tons of SO2. These emission reductions yield an estimated 60 fewer 
fatalities during this period, with the geographic distribution of health 
benefits differing from the distribution of energy savings because of 
differences in energy sources, population patterns, and meteorology. We discuss 
the methodology to be used to integrate life cycle calculations, which can 
ultimately yield estimates that can be compared with costs to determine the 
influence of external costs on benefit-cost calculations.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00266
PMID: 12442994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Risk Anal. 2002 Oct;22(5):1019-33. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00267.

Potential exposures and risks from beryllium-containing products.

Willis HH(1), Florig HK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Engineering and Public Policy, Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, USA. hwillis@rand.org

Beryllium is the strongest of the lightweight metals. Used primarily in military 
applications prior to the end of the Cold War, beryllium is finding new 
applications in many commercial products, including computers, telecommunication 
equipment, and consumer and automotive electronics. The use of beryllium in 
nondefense consumer applications is of concern because beryllium is toxic. 
Inhalation of beryllium dust or vapor causes a chronic lung disease in some 
individuals at concentrations as low as 0.01 microg/m3 in air. As beryllium 
enters wider commerce, it is prudent to ask what risks this might present to the 
general public and to workers downstream of the beryllium materials industry. We 
address this question by evaluating the potential for beryllium exposure from 
the manufacturing, use, recycle, and disposal of beryllium-containing products. 
Combining a market study with a qualitative exposure analysis, we determine 
which beryllium applications and life cycle phases have the largest exposure 
potential. Our analysis suggests that use and maintenance of the most common 
types of beryllium-containing products do not result in any obvious exposures of 
concern, and that maintenance activities result in greater exposures than 
product use. Product disposal has potential to present significant individual 
risks, but uncertainties concerning current and future routes of product 
disposal make it difficult to be definitive. Overall, additional exposure and 
dose-response data are needed to evaluate both the health significance of many 
exposure scenarios, and the adequacy of existing regulations to protect workers 
and the public. Although public exposures to beryllium and public awareness and 
concern regarding beryllium risks are currently low, beryllium risks have 
psychometric qualities that may lead to rapidly heightened public concern.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00267
PMID: 12442995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Chronic Dis Can. 2002 Summer;23(3):100-10.

Small area comparisons of health: applications for policy makers and challenges 
for researchers.

Veugelers PJ(1), Hornibrook S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dalhousie University, 5849 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3H 
4H7. paul.veugelers@dal.ca

It is a challenge to researchers to present their results in a way that serves 
the needs of health policy makers. Small area maps of life expectancy provide an 
insightful presentation. In this study, we pursued small area comparisons on a 
scale that is smaller than is currently available on a province-wide basis. We 
visualized Nova Scotia's provincial variation in health and identified the Cape 
Breton Regional Municipality and Halifax's disadvantaged "North End" 
neighbourhood as areas with major health concerns. The observed health 
differences are only partially explained by socioeconomic factors such as income 
and unemployment. The study also demonstrated the feasibility of small area 
comparisons at the level of census consolidated subdivisions and neighbourhoods. 
There are various methodological challenges for researchers, however: allocation 
procedures such as the postal code-conversion-file may introduce substantial 
error; the application of appropriate spatial smoothing procedures is crucial to 
the interpretation of regional variation in health; and the migration of frail 
individuals to nursing homes affects the geographic variation in health.

PMID: 12443566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2002 Nov;133(3):577-87. doi: 
10.1016/s1095-6433(02)00196-4.

A change of heart: cardiovascular development in the shrimp Metapenaeus ensis.

McMahon BR(1), Tanaka K, Doyle JE, Chu KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, 2500 University 
Drive NW, Alberta, Calgary, T2N 1N4, Canada. mcmahon@ucalgary.ca

The larval development of penaeid shrimp is among the most complicated in 
crustaceans. In Metapenaeus ensis, there are six naupliar, three protozoeal and 
three mysid larval instars, followed by postlarval development. Irregular 
heartbeat begins late in naupliar instar 6. Co-ordinated beating at 400-600 
beats min(-1) commences in the first protozoeal instar and continues throughout 
larval life. Initially, the contractile region is located more posteriorly in 
the cephalothorax and has a single pair of ostia, and the arterial distribution 
is limited to a single anterior vessel. In later mysid instars, a second cardiac 
pumping site develops posterior to, but connected with, the original site. This 
extension is more muscular, contains additional ostia and develops additional 
distribution vessels supplying the cephalothorax and abdominal areas. The 
original site is gradually merged into the new extension and only small 
refinements in the circulation occur in postlarval and juvenile life. Changes in 
physiological responses of the heart also occur throughout development. 
Responses to intra-pericardial microinjection of 5-hydroxytryptamine change 
drastically during development, as do cardiac responses to ambient hypoxia. 
Similarly, heartbeat of later juvenile instars is inhibited by injection of 
tetrodotoxin, while heartbeat of larval and early juvenile instars is not, 
suggesting that neurogenic regulation via the cardiac ganglion arises later in 
development. Our present studies attempt to integrate the anatomical and 
physiological changes in the development of the crustacean heart.

DOI: 10.1016/s1095-6433(02)00196-4
PMID: 12443915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Adv Physiol Educ. 2002 Dec;26(1-4):238-55. doi: 10.1152/advan.00039.2002.

Recent advances in pathophysiology and treatment of spinal cord injury.

Hulsebosch CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, Marine Biomedical Institute, 
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555-1043, USA. 
cehulseb@utmb.edu.

Thirty years ago, patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) and their families were 
told "nothing can be done" to improve function. Since the SCI patient population 
is reaching normal life expectancy through better health care, it has become an 
obviously worthwhile enterprise to devote considerable research effort to SCI. 
Targets for intervention in SCI toward improved function have been identified 
using basic research approaches and can be simplified into a list: (1) reduction 
of edema and free-radical production, (2) rescue of neural tissue at risk of 
dying in secondary processes such as abnormally high extracellular glutamate 
concentrations, (3) control of inflammation, (4) rescue of neuronal/glial 
populations at risk of continued apoptosis, (5) repair of demyelination and 
conduction deficits, (6) promotion of neurite growth through improved 
extracellular environment, (7) cell replacement therapies, (8) efforts to bridge 
the gap with transplantation approaches, (9) efforts to retrain and relearn 
motor tasks, (10) restoration of lost function by electrical stimulation, and 
(11) relief of chronic pain syndromes. Currently, over 70 clinical trials are in 
progress worldwide. Consequently, in this millennium, unlike in the last, no SCI 
patient will have to hear "nothing can be done."

DOI: 10.1152/advan.00039.2002
PMID: 12443996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. N Engl J Med. 2002 Nov 21;347(21):1662-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa022343.

Extended transthoracic resection compared with limited transhiatal resection for 
adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.

Hulscher JB(1), van Sandick JW, de Boer AG, Wijnhoven BP, Tijssen JG, Fockens P, 
Stalmeier PF, ten Kate FJ, van Dekken H, Obertop H, Tilanus HW, van Lanschot JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Nov 21;347(21):1705-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Mar 20;348(12):1177-9; author reply 1177-9.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Mar 20;348(12):1177-9; author reply 1177-9.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists about the best surgical treatment for esophageal 
carcinoma.
METHODS: We randomly assigned 220 patients with adenocarcinoma of the 
mid-to-distal esophagus or adenocarcinoma of the gastric cardia involving the 
distal esophagus either to transhiatal esophagectomy or to transthoracic 
esophagectomy with extended en bloc lymphadenectomy. Principal end points were 
overall survival and disease-free survival. Early morbidity and mortality, the 
number of quality-adjusted life-years gained, and cost effectiveness were also 
determined.
RESULTS: A total of 106 patients were assigned to undergo transhiatal 
esophagectomy, and 114 to undergo transthoracic esophagectomy. Demographic 
characteristics and characteristics of the tumor were similar in the two groups. 
Perioperative morbidity was higher after transthoracic esophagectomy, but there 
was no significant difference in in-hospital mortality (P=0.45). After a median 
follow-up of 4.7 years, 142 patients had died--74 (70 percent) after transhiatal 
resection and 68 (60 percent) after transthoracic resection (P=0.12). Although 
the difference in survival was not statistically significant, there was a trend 
toward a survival benefit with the extended approach at five years: disease-free 
survival was 27 percent in the transhiatal-esophagectomy group, as compared with 
39 percent in the transthoracic-esophagectomy group (95 percent confidence 
interval for the difference, -1 to 24 percent [the negative value indicates 
better survival with transhiatal resection]), whereas overall survival was 29 
percent as compared with 39 percent (95 percent confidence interval for the 
difference, -3 to 23 percent).
CONCLUSIONS: Transhiatal esophagectomy was associated with lower morbidity than 
transthoracic esophagectomy with extended en bloc lymphadenectomy. Although 
median overall, disease-free, and quality-adjusted survival did not differ 
statistically between the groups, there was a trend toward improved long-term 
survival at five years with the extended transthoracic approach.

Copyright 2002 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa022343
PMID: 12444180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Dermatology. 2002;205(4):383-8. doi: 10.1159/000066425.

Body-weight-independent dosing of cyclosporine micro-emulsion and three times 
weekly maintenance regimen in severe psoriasis. A randomised study.

Thaçi D(1), Bräutigam M, Kaufmann R, Weidinger G, Paul C, Christophers E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt, 
Germany. thaci@em.uni-frankfurt.de

BACKGROUND: Body-weight-dependent (BWD) treatment of psoriasis with cyclosporine 
A (CsA is well established. It has recently been reported that this is not 
necessary for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To investigate the efficacy and safety of a CsA micro-emulsion 
administered in a new body-weight-independent (BWI) protocol and to compare it 
to a BWD dosage regimen in the treatment of severe psoriasis. (2) To investigate 
the duration of disease remission after intermittent treatment of psoriasis with 
CsA.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 122 adult patients with severe plaque-type psoriasis (PASI 
> or = 12) were included in this study which consisted of two treatment periods: 
period I was a randomised parallel-group comparison of daily CsA doses of 
100-300 mg (BWI) or 1.25-5.0 mg/kg (BWD) for 12 weeks; period II was a 
randomised double-blind placebo-controlled extension treatment of patients, who 
had responded (>75% PASI recovery) to the treatment in period I and continued 
the treatment on their last effective dose or placebo 3 times weekly for a 
further 12 weeks.
RESULTS: In period I, the increase in creatinine in the BWI group (2.7 
micromol/l) was proven to be non-inferior to that of the BWD group (3.5 
micromol/l) at a non-inferiority limit of 5 micromol/l (p < 0.05). The PASI 
decreased with BWI dosing from 22.0 to 3.0 and with the BWD scheme from 19.5 to 
2.5 (p = 0.98). In period II, the relapse rates were 40.5% (17/42) with 
intermittent CsA and 56.9% (29/51) with placebo (p = 0.15).
CONCLUSIONS: BWI dosing is as effective and safe as conventional BWD dosing for 
the short-term treatment of severe psoriasis. There was a tendency toward a 
prolongation of remission with intermittent CsA treatment.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000066425
PMID: 12444336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2002 Nov 22;127(47):2503-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-35643.

[Coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with highly impaired ventricular 
function. Long-term outcome].

[Article in German]

Hausmann H(1), Siniawski H, Meyer R, Amthauer H, Gutberlet M, Felix R, Sodian R, 
Krabatsch T, Koster A, Kukucka M, Kuppe H, Hetzer R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Herz-, Thorax- und Gefässchirurgie, Deutsches Herzzentrum 
Berlin, Germany. hhausmann@dhzb.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Left ventricular function is the most important 
predictor of survival in patients with coronary artery disease. It is also an 
important indicator for hospital mortality after operation for end-stage 
coronary artery disease. In our study we investigated, how preoperative 
ventricular dysfunction influences long term survival after coronary bypass 
surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 4/1986 and 12/2000, 1751 patients (1440 men/311 
women) with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 10-30% underwent coronary 
bypass grafting (CABG) at the Deutsches Herzzentrum Berlin. The age of the 
patients was calculated to an average of 59,2 years. The prime criterion for 
CABG was ischemia ("hibernating myocardium") diagnosed by myocardial 
scintigraphy, echocardiography and in some cases with magnetic resonance imaging 
and positron emission tomography.
RESULTS: Operative mortality for the group was 7,1%. The actuarial survival rate 
was 87,6% after 2 years, 76,0% after 5, and 53,3% after 9. 455 had LVEF 10-20%, 
in these actuarial survival was 79,8% after 2 years, 63,0% after 5 and 45,7% 
after 9 years.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that CABG can be used successfully to improve life 
expectancy of patients with end-stage coronary artery disease. CABG leads to 
acceptable prognosis for these high-risk patients when the myocardium is 
preoperatively identified as being viable.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-35643
PMID: 12444562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Br J Surg. 2002 Dec;89(12):1587-93. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.2002.02261.x.

Long-term follow-up and cost benefit of adrenalectomy in patients with primary 
hyperaldosteronism.

Sywak M(1), Pasieka JL.

Author information:
(1)Tom Baker Cancer Center and University of Calgary, and Division of General 
Surgery and Division of Surgical Oncology, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term efficacy of 
adrenalectomy on blood pressure control in patients with primary 
hyperaldosteronism (HA), and to analyse the cost of adrenalectomy compared with 
non-surgical management of HA over the patient's lifetime.
METHODS: All patients who underwent an adrenalectomy for HA were recalled to the 
endocrine surgical clinic. Data gathered included blood pressure, aldosterone : 
renin ratios and medication. Total costs for adrenalectomy and ongoing 
medications were compared with the estimated costs of lifelong medical therapy 
alone.
RESULTS: Twenty-four adrenalectomies were performed for HA, with one death. The 
mean follow-up was 42 (range 13-97) months. Long term, there was a significant 
decrease in both the mean diastolic and systolic blood pressure. The aldosterone 
: renin ratio decreased in 21 patients. Of these patients, 20 were either off 
all antihypertensives (eight) or had a reduction in medication (12). An 
increased aldosterone : renin ratio occurred in two patients, both of whom 
required an increase in antihypertensive medication. Using the predicted life 
expectancy, the mean estimated cost savings over the lifetime of each patient 
undergoing adrenalectomy compared with medication alone was Canadian $31 132.
CONCLUSION: Adrenalectomy for HA resulted in significant long-term reduction in 
blood pressure. Adrenalectomy for HA is a significantly less expensive than 
long-term medical therapy alone.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.2002.02261.x
PMID: 12445071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Liver. 2002 Dec;22(6):479-85. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0676.2002.01736.x.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant interferon therapy after surgical resection of 
Hepatitis C-related hepatocellular carcinoma.

Hoshida Y(1), Shiratori Y, Omata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of 
Tokyo, Japan. hoshiday-int@h.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: To evaluate cost-effectiveness of adjuvant interferon therapy used 
with surgical resection of hepatitis C-related primary hepatocellular carcinoma.
DESIGN: We constructed a Markov model that simulated adjuvant interferon therapy 
after resection of hepatitis C-related hepatocellular carcinoma, and evaluated 
life expectancy, costs, and cancer recurrence. The reference case is a 
60-year-old man with hepatitis C-related compensated cirrhosis.
RESULTS: At the baseline, adjuvant interferon therapy yielded 6.1 life years 
with a cost of dollars 77000, and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 
dollars 15700/life year compared with no interferon therapy. The proportion of 
patients who experienced recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma until death was 
reduced from 87.6% to 62.9% using adjuvant interferon therapy. The incidence of 
recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma after interferon influenced the 
cost-effectiveness of adjuvant interferon therapy. A threshold analysis showed 
that adjuvant interferon therapy was not cost-effective (ICER = dollars 
27000/year) if the annual incidence of recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma after 
interferon is 16% (baseline 8.9%). The proportions of patients with recurrent 
hepatocellular carcinoma were 74.4% and 86.9% at the annual recurrence rates 
after interferon of 16% and 35%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant interferon therapy after surgical resection of primary 
hepatitis C-related hepatocellular carcinoma improves life expectancy through 
suppression of recurrent cancer with acceptable cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0676.2002.01736.x
PMID: 12445173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Lung Cancer. 2002 Dec;38(3):243-52. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(02)00222-2.

Lung cancer screening by spiral CT. What is the optimal target population for 
screening trials?

van Klaveren RJ(1), de Koning HJ, Mulshine J, Hirsch FR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Erasmus Medical Centre, University Hospital 
Rotterdam, Dr Molewaterplein 40, 3015 GD Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
vanklaveren@svlo.azr.nl

The purpose of this document is to provide recommendations for the selection of 
the optimal target population for lung cancer screening trials with Spiral 
Computer Tomography based on an analysis of risk factors and high-risk 
populations. Our recommendations are to include current or ex-smokers (<5 years) 
with a smoking history of at least 30 years and an average consumption of at 
least 20 cigarettes a day. When these selection criteria are applied there is no 
need for a lower age cut-off. Elderly people can be included as long as their 
life expectancy is more than 10 years. Participants should be fit enough to 
undergo thoracic surgery. They may have a history of previous cancer, provided 
that the cancer has been curatively treated at least 5 years ago without 
evidence of relapse, except for breast cancer, melanoma and hypernephroma. 
People with an inability to lie flat, who are unable to hold their breath for 20 
s, with a body weight above 140 kg, a chest CT scan within 1 year before 
enrolment or a previous pneumonectomy should not be invited. The inadequacy of 
the unit 'Pack-Years' (PY) to estimate the individual lung cancer risk is 
recognised, and future initiatives to develop an appropriate lung cancer risk 
model are encouraged.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(02)00222-2
PMID: 12445745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Dec;124(6):1190-7. doi:
10.1067/mtc.2002.124885.

Primary lung carcinoma after heart or lung transplantation: management and 
outcome.

Anyanwu AC(1), Townsend ER, Banner NR, Burke M, Khaghani A, Yacoub MH.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery and Transplant Unit, Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust, 
Harefield Hospital, Uxbridge, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine our management and outcome of lung carcinoma 
occurring after thoracic organ transplantation.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of cases of primary lung carcinoma 
diagnosed between 1990 and 2000 in patients who have previously undergone 
thoracic transplantation at our institution.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients were identified (1 lung and 16 heart transplants). 
Median time from transplantation to diagnosis of lung carcinoma was 89 months 
(range, 46-138 months). Predominant presentation was as an incidental finding at 
chest radiography (13/17). All patients had smoked cigarettes before 
transplantation, with 5 continuing to smoke after transplantation. Histologic 
types were squamous (n = 11), adenocarcinoma (n = 3), small cell (n = 2), and 
undifferentiated (n = 1). Revised International Union Against Cancer (UICC) 
clinical stage at the time of diagnosis was stage I or II in 11 of 17 patients. 
Of these, 9 underwent surgical resection; 2 patients unfit for surgical 
intervention had radiotherapy. Surgical procedures were lobectomy (n = 5), wedge 
excision (n = 3), and no resection (n = 1). Median survival after diagnosis was 
12 months for all patients and 24 months if the tumor was resected. Six patients 
who had surgical resection subsequently died (survival of 2, 9, 21, 21, 36, and 
67 months); 2 remain alive after 12 and 54 months, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: When possible, surgical intervention should be undertaken for early 
stage lung cancer occurring after thoracic transplantation because medium-term 
survival is achievable. Sublobar excisions and definitive radiotherapy should be 
considered if comorbidity prevents optimal surgical treatment.

DOI: 10.1067/mtc.2002.124885
PMID: 12447186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Bull Menninger Clin. 2002 Summer;66(3):241-58. doi:
10.1521/bumc.66.3.241.23366.

Exploring psychological abuse in childhood: II. Association with other abuse and 
adult clinical depression.

Bifulco A(1), Moran PM, Baines R, Bunn A, Stanford K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Social Care, University of London, United Kingdom. 
lifespan@rhul.ac.uk

A new retrospective interview assessment of childhood psychological abuse, an 
extension to the Childhood Experience of Care and Abuse (CECA) instrument, is 
described in a companion article (Moran, Bifulco, Ball, Jacobs, & Benaim, 2002). 
The purpose of the present article is to examine the relationship of childhood 
psychological abuse to other adverse childhood experiences and to major 
depression and suicidal behavior in adult life. Childhood experience and 
lifetime disorder were assessed retrospectively in a high-risk, community series 
of London women (n = 204). Psychological abuse from parents was examined in 
relation to seven other parental behaviors (neglect, antipathy, role reversal, 
discipline, supervision, physical abuse, and sexual abuse). Psychological abuse 
was significantly related to all seven behaviors. The highest associations found 
were to antipathy (gamma = .76), neglect (.73), and sexual abuse (.72). Factor 
analysis showed the existence of two factors reflecting care and control, with 
psychological abuse associated with both factors. Childhood psychological abuse 
was highly related to chronic or recurrent adult depression, with a 
"dose-response" evident for severity of abuse. The rates ranged from 83% for 
"marked" to 55% for "mild" abuse and 37% for "little/no" psychological abuse (p 
< .002). Psychological abuse was also related to lifetime suicidal behavior but 
here any level of abuse from marked to mild had similar rates (36% overall vs. 
18% with no psychological abuse, p < .04). There was no evidence of specificity 
of childhood experience to adult depression; nearly all types of childhood 
adversity examined were significantly related. An analysis using an index of 
multiple abuse, including psychological abuse, showed a clear dose-response 
relationship to disorder. Somewhat fewer forms of maltreatment were related to 
suicidal behavior, but again multiples showed a clear dose-response effect.

DOI: 10.1521/bumc.66.3.241.23366
PMID: 12448629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Bull Cancer. 2002 Aug;89 Spec No:S85-90.
