
[Platinum-free gemcitabine-based combinations: an alternative to conventional 
chemotherapy of non-small-cell lung cancers?].

[Article in French]

Pujol JL(1), Choma D, Jacot W, Quantin X.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'oncologie thoracique, Hôpital Arnaud-de-Villeneuve, avenue du 
Doyen-Giraud, 34295 Montpellier.

Cisplatin-based combinations are standard regimens in the treatment of advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer. Survival improvement has been achieved using this 
therapy. However, the high toxicity induced by cisplatin-based doublets urges 
the research of alternate treatments. Newest cytotoxic compounds yield a better 
efficacy/toxicity ratio. Platinum-free doublet regimens based on new drugs are 
expected to offer the patient an improved survival without decreasing his 
quality of life. Treatment-allocated time and period with high grade toxicity 
could be considered as wasted from the patient point of view. Qualy methods 
based on time without symptoms and toxicity (TWiST) allow the accurate 
evaluation of this end-point. This brief state-of-the-art deals with 
methodological statements highlighted by the first publications of randomized 
studies comparing gemcitabine--navelbine or gemcitabine--taxane combinations 
with either single-drug chemotherapy or standard chemotherapy based on 
cisplatin. The choice of end-points is discussed.

PMID: 12449036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Eur Respir J. 2002 Nov;20(5):1088-94. doi: 10.1183/09031936.02.00016502.

The anti-IgE antibody omalizumab improves asthma-related quality of life in 
patients with allergic asthma.

Buhl R(1), Hanf G, Solèr M, Bensch G, Wolfe J, Everhard F, Champain K, Fox H, 
Thirlwell J.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Division, University Hospital, Mainz, Germany. 
R.Buhl@3-med.klinik.uni-mainz.de

The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of treatment with 
omalizumab, an anti-immunoglobulin E antibody, on asthma-related quality of life 
(AQoL) in patients with moderate-to-severe allergic asthma. A total of 546 
patients with allergic asthma were randomised to double-blind subcutaneous 
treatment with either placebo or omalizumab for 52 weeks. A constant 
beclomethasone dipropionate dose was maintained during the first 16 weeks 
(steroid-stable phase). This was followed by a 12-week steroid-reduction phase. 
The core study was followed by a 24-week double-blind extension phase. AQoL was 
evaluated at baseline and at the end of the steroid-stable (week 16), 
steroid-reduction (week 28) and extension phases (week 52) using the Juniper 
Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ). Baseline AQLQ scores were 
comparable for the two treatment groups. Relative to placebo, omalizumab-treated 
patients demonstrated statistically significant improvements from baseline 
across all four AQLQ domains, as well as overall AQoL score, at weeks 16 (except 
environmental exposure), 28 and 52. Patients on omalizumab were also more likely 
to achieve clinically significant improvements in AQoL during the course of the 
study. Overall, almost 70% of patients and investigators rated treatment with 
omalizumab as "excellent/good", compared with approximately 40% of placebo 
recipients. Clinical studies show that omalizumab enhances disease control 
whilst reducing corticosteroid consumption in patients with allergic asthma. The 
results of the present study show that these changes are paralleled by 
improvements in asthma-related quality of life that are meaningful to such 
patients.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.02.00016502
PMID: 12449159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Eur Respir J. 2002 Nov;20(5):1233-8. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00.00014401.

Health utilities in evaluating intervention in the sleep apnoea/hypopnoea 
syndrome.

Chakravorty I(1), Cayton RM, Szczepura A.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Thoracic Medicine, Watford General Hospital, Watford, UK. 
indranil@altavista.net

Formulating a rational health policy necessitates the ability to compare between 
different healthcare interventions and disease scenarios. Continuous positive 
airway pressure (CPAP) therapy with a conservative lifestyle strategy in sleep 
apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (SAHS) was evaluated using health utility and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as outcome measures. A total 71 SAHS 
(apnoea/hypopnoea index > or = 15 h(-1)) patients completed a randomised, 
parallel group study over 3 months using utilities derived by the standard 
gamble approach (Usg) and European quality of life questionnaire (Euroqol) 
(Ueq). The severely impaired health status at baseline improved by 23% (Usg 0.32 
to 0.55) adding 8 QALYs in the CPAP group, compared to a 4% improvement with 4.7 
QALYs added in the lifestyle group (Usg 0.31 to 0.35). The Ueq showed a marginal 
change with CPAP (0.73 to 0.77) but did not demonstrate any improvement with 
lifestyle intervention. The health status impairment in sleep apnoea/hypopnoea 
syndrome patients is markedly improved by continuous positive airway pressure 
compared to a modest improvement with conservative lifestyle strategies using 
the standard gamble utility, which may be incorporated in effectiveness and 
economic analyses. The European quality of life questionnaire did not reflect a 
similar degree of impact and is probably not useful in this population.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00.00014401
PMID: 12449179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2002 Oct-Nov;24(7-8):479-83. doi: 10.1081/ceh-120015323.

Epidemiology of stroke.

Carolei A(1), Sacco S, De Santis F, Marini C.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Neurologica, Università degli Studi di L'Aquila, Italy. 
a_carolei@yahoo.com

Stroke is the most common neurologic disease and the leading cause of adult 
disability in Western countries. The number of patients affected by stroke will 
increase by the effect of aging. Mainly due to increased life expectancy, the 
proportion of individuals over 65 years in the L'Aquila district showed an 
increase of 18.3% in a 10 years period (1981-1991). Among the resident 
population, in a five-year period (1994-1998) we collected all the patients with 
a first-ever stroke, and we found high crude and standardized (European 
population 1996) incidence rates. There was a significant correlation between 
crude and standardized incidence rates and proportion of individuals aged 65 and 
over, suggesting that the high incidence was due to an increased stroke risk 
linked to aging. As a cosequence, the number of subjects with atherosclerotic 
comorbidity will increase and the quality of life will worsen.

DOI: 10.1081/ceh-120015323
PMID: 12450222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Eat Weight Disord. 2002 Sep;7(3):161-7. doi: 10.1007/BF03327453.

Sibutramine lost and found.

Bosello O(1), Carruba MO, Ferrannini E, Rotella CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Surgical Sciences, University of Verona, Italy. 
ottavio.bosello@univr.it

Obesity has now been identified as a chronic disease, a global epidemic 
(globesity) and a serious public health issue that leads to reduced life 
expectancy, an increased risk for many serious medical conditions and enormous 
healthcare costs. The prevalence of obesity and overweight in Italy in 2000 was 
respectively 9% and 33%, and has grown by 25% over the last five years. Even 
moderate weight loss can improve obesity-related morbidity and mortality. In 
November 1997, the US Food and Drug Administration approved sibutramine, a 
serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, for the treatment of 
pathological obesity and the management and maintenance of weight loss. In March 
2002, sibutramine was temporarily withdrawn from the Italian market on the basis 
of 47 adverse event reports received between April and December 2001. However, a 
worldwide review of efficacy and safety data has shown that the overall 
risk/benefit profile of sibutramine remains favourable, with the rate of fatal 
reports involving patients receiving sibutramine being 200 times less than the 
obese women's mortality rate in the Nurses' Health Study. There is strong 
evidence supporting the usefulness of the correct use of sibutramine in the 
management of obesity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03327453
PMID: 12452247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Jpn Heart J. 2002 Sep;43(5):531-43. doi: 10.1536/jhj.43.531.

Long-term combined therapy with an angiotensin type I receptor blocker and an 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor prolongs survival in dilated 
cardiomyopathy.

Shimizu T(1), Okamoto H, Chiba S, Matsui Y, Sugawara T, Onozuka H, Mikami T, 
Kumamoto H, Kitabatake A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Hokkaido 
University, Sapporo, Japan.

The efficacy of ACE inhibitors (ACEIs) in the treatment of chronic heart 
failures is well documented. However, ACEIs may provide incomplete blockade of 
the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) because of the alternative pathways for 
angiotensin II (All) production. We hypothesized that more complete blockade of 
RAS by adding an AT1 receptor blocker (ARB) may have greater potential to 
decrease mortality associated with heart failure and improve cardiac function 
than monotherapy with ACEIs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the 
effect of combined therapy on cardiac functions and survival in cardiomyopathic 
hamsters. Male cardiomyopathic hamsters (BIO TO2) were administered either 
placebo (group C), enalapril (30 mg/kg/day) (group E), or enalapril (30 
mg/kg/day) + valsartan (500 mg/ kg/day) (group EV), starting at the age of 6 
weeks. Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed to assess the differences in 
survival. Cardiac functions were evaluated by echocardiogram and cardiac 
catheterization. Group EV showed significant increases in fractional shortening, 
LV dP/dTmax, and deceleration time, and showed significant decreases in left 
ventricular diastolic dimension, LV dP/dTmin, and early diastolic mitral 
velocity/atrial systolic velocity. Treatment with enalapril resulted in longer 
survival compared with placebo. Moreover, life expectancy (median probability of 
survival: 433 days) increased significantly in group EV compared with group E 
(P<0.05) as well as group C (P<0.001). It is concluded that combined therapy 
improved cardiac function and survival compared to placebo or enalapril 
monotherapy.

DOI: 10.1536/jhj.43.531
PMID: 12452311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Australas Radiol. 2002 Dec;46(4):390-5. doi:
10.1046/j.1440-1673.2002.01092.x.

Survival with brain metastases following radiation therapy.

Yuile PG(1), Tran MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Royal North Shore Hospital and The Mater 
Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. pyuile@surgery.usyd.edu.au

The onset of intracranial metastases is a common development during the course 
of malignancy. The treatment of these patients represents a significant workload 
in any radiation oncology department. Much debate has occurred regarding the 
most appropriate fractionation schedules employed given the perception of 
limited life expectancy and symptomatic relief following cranial radiation. The 
aim of this study was to identify the spectrum of primary sites in patients 
developing intracranial metastases and to assess survival postradiation for the 
group overall and for selected subgroups. The records of 378 patients undergoing 
palliative cranial radiation in the years 1993-1998 at Sydney's Mater and Royal 
North Shore hospitals were analysed retrospectively. Major primary sites were 
lung (42%), breast (18%), colorectal (9%), melanoma (7%), and unknown primary 
(7%). Overall median survival post-treatment was 3 months. Lung cancer patients 
showed a median survival of 6 months, breast 5 months, colorectal 4 months and 
melanoma 3 months. Long-term survivors were noted with up to 15% of certain 
groups alive beyond 12 months and 2% alive at 24 months. Multivariate analysis 
revealed improved survival in patients undergoing resection, and those receiving 
higher dose radiation justifying a more aggressive approach in selected 
patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1673.2002.01092.x
PMID: 12452910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2002 Dec;12(6):371-5. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0838.2002.01293.x.

Mechanism of quadriceps femoris muscle weakness in patients with anterior 
cruciate ligament reconstruction.

Konishi Y(1), Fukubayashi T, Takeshita D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Science, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate gamma loop function in the 
quadriceps femoris muscle in patients who with less than 6 month-history of 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. For this purpose, we compared 
the response to vibration stimulation in 10 patients with ACL repair and 12 
normal healthy subjects, by measuring the maximal voluntary isometric 
contraction (MVC) and integrated electromyograms (I-EMG) of the quadriceps 
muscles. Pre-vibration data were obtained from each subject by measuring the MVC 
of the knee extension and the I-EMG from the vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, 
and rectus femoris muscles. Vibration stimulation was applied to the 
infrapatellar tendons, followed immediately by repeating the MVC and I-EMG 
recording. Prolonged vibration resulted in a significant decrease of both MVC 
and I-EMG in the control group. In contrast, the same stimulus failed to elicit 
changes in ACL-repair group. Our results suggest the presence of abnormal gamma 
loop function in the quadriceps femoris muscle of patients with ACL repair, 
which may explain the muscle weakness often described in such patients.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0838.2002.01293.x
PMID: 12453165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Med Clin (Barc). 2002 Nov 16;119(17):644-9. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(02)73528-8.

[Results of isolated and combined surgical coronary revascularization in 
patients over 75].

[Article in Spanish]

Carrascal Y(1), Echevarría JR, Fulquet E, Casquero E, Di Stefano S, Flórez S, 
Fiz L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Cardíaca, ICICOR, Hospital Universitario de Valladolid, 
Valladolid, España. aguerrerop@medynet.com

BACKGROUND: Increase in life expectancy is causing an increase of surgical 
myocardial revascularization procedures in the elderly. We evaluate the 
evolution of this type of interventions in people older than 75 years, taking 
into account the risk factors, results and survival.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Between July 1988 and May 2001, 237 isolated or combined 
myocardial revascularization procedures were carried out in patients older than 
75 years (Group I), while 1177 were performed in younger patients (Group II). We 
retrospectively analyzed the mortality risk factors, surgical procedures, 
postoperative complications and survival in Group I patients.
RESULTS: Preoperatively, Group I patients showed a more frequent left 
ventricular dysfunction, left main coronary stenosis, emergency surgery and 
combined procedures, while Group II patients displayed more common preoperative 
myocardial infarction and dyslipemia. Mortality in Group I was 20.7% vs 9.09% in 
Group II. Mortality was higher for mixed procedures (27.1%) than for isolated 
myocardial revascularization (13.8%). Postoperative complications were present 
in 48.5% patients. Significant preoperative risk factors of mortality in Group I 
were: female sex, high-risk ergometry, III-IV NYHA functional class, and atrial 
arrhythmia. The preoperative NYHA functional class was also a morbidity risk 
factor. Survival at 1, 3 and 5 years was present in 98.4%, 92.1% and 81% 
patients, respectively, NYHA functional class I-II being present in 94.18% 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Myocardial revascularization surgery in people older than 75 years 
leads to an increase of morbimortality. Anyway, long-term survivors' quality of 
life makes us think of surgery as a valid treatment alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(02)73528-8
PMID: 12453373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Dec;10(6):545-50. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(02)00114-x.

Outcome of endovascular intervention for infrainguinal vein graft stenosis.

Tong Y(1), Matthews PG, Royle JP.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, Austin and Repatriation Medical Centre, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. yisha.tong@armc.org.au

Assisted graft patency rate following revision of a graft stenosis is far better 
than that following thrombectomy of an occluded graft. Graft revision by 
endovascular means has been proposed as a suitable alternative to more invasive 
surgery. This study reports our experience with endovascular treatment of vein 
graft stenosis. Between December 1992 and September 2000, percutaneous 
transluminal balloon angioplasty (PTA) was performed on 90 vein graft stenoses 
in 87 infrainguinal vein bypass grafts identified by routine graft duplex scan 
(peak systolic velocity, PSV > 300 cm/sec). All 90 stenoses treated by PTA were 
retrospectively analysed for stenosis-free patency rate (life-table analysis). 
Re-stenosis was defined by PSV exceeding 300 cm/sec at the same site of the vein 
graft where a stenosis was dilated. Ninety vein graft stenoses (72 primary 
stenoses and 18 recurrent stenoses) in 33 femoropopliteal (above knee), 30 
femoropopliteal (below knee) and 24 femorotibial vein bypass grafts were treated 
by PTA. The timing of PTA ranged from one to 252 months (mean, 23.9 months) from 
the initial surgery. Cumulative stenosis-free patency rate after PTA was 55.8% 
at 6 months, 54.0% at one year and 45.0% at three years. Stenosis-free patency 
rate at six months was significantly lower for revision of recurrent stenosis 
(25.9%) than for primary stenosis (61.6%) (P = 0.01). The revision of duplex 
scan detected vein graft stenosis with endovascular intervention was associated 
with an acceptable stenosis-free patency rate. However, recurrent stenosis 
treated by PTA had a significantly inferior outcome. Direct surgical revision 
would be more appropriate for recurrent lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(02)00114-x
PMID: 12453684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Arch Esp Urol. 2002 Oct;55(8):969-75.

Renal cell carcinoma in young adults: incidence, disease outcome and review of 
the literature.

Rodríguez A(1), Patard JJ, Lobel B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, CHU Pontchaillou, Rennes, France. armbkdd@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To study the incidence, clinical presentation and pathological 
prognostic factors affecting disease outcome of RCC in young adults less than 40 
years old.
METHODS: The charts o medical records of 400 patients treated surgically for RCC 
between January 1984 and December 1999 were reviewed. 29 (7.25%) patients were 
under 40. We used ANOVA regression and Chisquare (Fisher exact test) to assess 
the prognostic value of the quantitative and qualitative variables, 
respectively. Estimation of the survival distributions were calculated according 
to Kaplan-Meier method and compared with Log rank test. Multivariate analysis of 
the entire population utilizing Cox models was performed.
RESULTS: The most common histological cell type was clear cell carcinoma, found 
in 20 (69%) patients. At a median follow-up of 80 months, 20 (69%) patients were 
disease free and 9 (31%) died of the disease. Incidental discovery (p = 0.05), 
tumor stage (p = 0.043), grade (p = 0.011), lymphatic invasion (p < 0.0001) 
metastasis (p = 0.003), adrenal invasion (p = 0.024), and renal vein invasion (p 
< 0.0001) were associated with prognosis (Kaplan-Meier). When comparing patients 
less than 40 years vs. older than 40 years, we found significant differences in 
histology type (clear cell carcinoma 69% vs. 91%; p = 0.0001), and tumor stage 
at presentation (pT2 = 34.5% vs. 17.3%; p = 0.04) (pT3 = 20.7% vs. 42%; p = 
0.03). Disease free survival was not significantly different between the two 
groups (69% vs. 65.7%; Log rank test p = 0.4).
CONCLUSION: Although rare, RCC in young adults seems to follow a course similar 
to the disease seen in older patients. Among the prognostic factors studied 
incidental discovery, pathological stage of the tumor and grade, were associated 
with survival. Stage at presentation was different between the two populations 
however survival was not affected by age.

PMID: 12455292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Calif Dent Assoc. 2002 Nov;30(11):816.

Huge gains made in U.S. health during past 50 years.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12455753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Exp Appl Acarol. 2001;25(10-11):833-47. doi: 10.1023/a:1020431531446.

Euseiusfinlandicus (Acari: Phytoseiidae) as a potential biocontrol agent against 
Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae): life history and feeding habits on 
three different types of food.

Abdalla AA(1), Zhang Z, Masters GJ, McNeill S.

Author information:
(1)CABI Bioscience, UK Centre, Silwood Park, SL5 7TA, Ascot, Berkshire, UK. 
A.Abdallah@ic.ac.uk

Life history and reproductive parameters of the generalist predatory mite 
Euseius (Amblyseius) finlandicus (Oudemans) were studied in the laboratory at 25 
+/- 1 degrees C, with a 16L:8D photoperiod and 60 +/- 15% RH, to investigate its 
response to different food sources: an eriophyid mite Aceria sp., tulip pollen 
Tulipa gesnerana L., and two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae Koch. Total 
developmental time of the immature stages was the shortest on eriophyid mites, 
followed by pollen, and then spider mites. Fecundity was highest on pollen 
(43.69 eggs; 1.63 eggs/female/day), then eriophyid mites (39.73 eggs; 1.37 
eggs/female/day) and lowest on spider mites (18.16 eggs; 0.80 eggs/female/day). 
Intrinsic rate of increase (Rm), net reproductive rate (Ro) and finite rate of 
increase (lambda) followed the same pattern [pollen (0.168, 27.96 and 1.183, 
respectively), eriophyid mites (0.153, 20.81 and 1.167), spider mites (0.110, 
9.44 and 1.119)]. Mean generation time (days) was the shortest on pollen 
(19.90), followed by eriophyid mites (20.02), and then spider mites (20.59). 
Average spider mite larvae consumed by E. finlandicus during immature stages 
were 9.18 for males and 11.85 for females. Adult E. finlandicus females consumed 
an average of 166.38 spider mite protonymphs during adult stage compared to an 
average of 66.55 by males. The number of prey protonymphs consumed per day by 
females was highest in the oviposition period, lower in the pre-oviposition 
period and the lowest in the post-oviposition period. The eriophyid mite as a 
prey recorded the shortest developmental time, while pollen as food recorded the 
highest oviposition rate in E. finlandicus. The potential of this predator as a 
biocontrol agent against T. urticae is discussed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1020431531446
PMID: 12455874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Int J Health Serv. 2002;32(4):629-56. doi: 10.2190/N7A9-5X58-0DYT-C6AY.

Economic inequality, working-class power, social capital, and cause-specific 
mortality in wealthy countries.

Muntaner C(1), Lynch JW, Hillemeier M, Lee JH, David R, Benach J, Borrell C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral and Community Health, School of Nursing, University 
of Maryland, Baltimore 21201, USA. muntaner@son.umaryland.edu

Comment on
    Int J Health Serv. 2002;32(3):423-32.

This study tests two propositions from Navarro's critique of the social capital 
literature: that social capital's importance has been exaggerated and that 
class-related political factors, absent from social epidemiology and public 
health, might be key determinants of population health. The authors estimate 
cross-sectional associations between economic inequality, working-class power, 
and social capital and life expectancy, self-rated health, low birth weight, and 
age- and cause-specific mortality in 16 wealthy countries. Of all the health 
outcomes, the five variables related to birth and infant survival and 
nonintentional injuries had the most consistent association with economic 
inequality and working-class power (in particular with strength of the welfare 
state) and, less so, with social capital indicators. Rates of low birth weight 
and infant deaths from all causes were lower in countries with more "left" 
(e.g., socialist, social democratic, labor) votes, more left members of 
parliament, more years of social democratic government, more women in 
government, and various indicators of strength of the welfare state, as well as 
low economic inequality, as measured in a variety of ways. Similar associations 
were observed for injury mortality, underscoring the crucial role of unions and 
labor parties in promoting workplace safety. Overall, social capital shows 
weaker associations with population health indicators than do economic 
inequality and working-class power. The popularity of social capital and 
exclusion of class-related political and welfare state indicators does not seem 
to be justified on empirical grounds.

DOI: 10.2190/N7A9-5X58-0DYT-C6AY
PMID: 12456119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Int J Health Serv. 2002;32(4):733-54. doi: 10.2190/CECN-VWK4-H8AC-BCRH.

Report of the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health: a critique.

Banerji D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, 
New Delhi, India. nhpp@bol.net.in

The World Health Organization has been able to interest some of the world's top 
economists in joining the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, to study 
macroeconomics of health services for the poor peoples of the world. The 
commission has been ahistorical, apolitical, and atheoretical. It has adopted a 
selective approach to conform to a preconceived ideology. It has ignored earlier 
work done in this field. And it has pointedly ignored such major developments in 
the health services as the Alma-Ata Declaration. These failings have brought the 
quality of the scholastic work to an almost rock-bottom level. The commission's 
tunnel vision in its recommendations on so important a subject is not 
surprising. Its emphatic recommendations for perpetuating vertical programs 
against major communicable diseases (tuberculosis, AIDS, and malaria) on the 
grounds that such programs have proved convenient to "donors" reveals the real 
motivations for an almost openly ideology-driven agenda. This is a serious 
danger signal for scholars who wish to take a scientific attitude toward program 
formulations for the poor that provide maximum returns from limited resources. 
The concept of DALYs (disability adjusted life years) is bristling with gross 
infirmities. The WHO-generated data used for DALY calculations, converted into 
dollar terms, are patently invalid, unreliable, and not comparable between and 
even within countries.

DOI: 10.2190/CECN-VWK4-H8AC-BCRH
PMID: 12456123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Health Educ Behav. 2002 Dec;29(6):755-70. doi: 10.1177/109019802237942.

Analysis of the cost-effectiveness of mammography promotion by volunteers in 
rural communities.

Andersen MR(1), Hager M, Su C, Urban N.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA. 
rander@fhcrc.org

The Community Trial of Breast Cancer Screening Promotion assessed the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of mammography promotion by community 
volunteer groups in rural areas using three different intervention approaches: 
individual counseling, community activities, and a combined intervention 
including both. Societal costs of the interventions were calculated and used in 
conjunction with measures of effectiveness to calculate cost-effectiveness in 
terms of cost per additional mammogram and cost per year of life saved. Methods 
of collecting and using cost information to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
community interventions are described. The Community Activities intervention was 
found to be the most cost-effective, at approximately $2,000 for each additional 
regular mammography user in the community. The cost per year of life saved 
associated with mammography promotion was approximately $56,000 per year of life 
saved. Exploratory analyses suggest that the most cost-effective method of 
promoting mammography use may vary with the target population.

DOI: 10.1177/109019802237942
PMID: 12456132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Arch Intern Med. 2002 Dec 9-23;162(22):2545-56. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.162.22.2545.

Treatment for hepatitis C virus in human immunodeficiency virus-infected 
patients: clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness.

Kuehne FC(1), Bethe U, Freedberg K, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, 718 
Huntington Ave, Second Floor, Boston, MA 02115-5924, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an important cause of liver disease in 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative management strategies 
for chronic HCV in co-infected patients with moderate hepatitis.
METHODS: A state-transition model was used to simulate a cohort of HIV-infected 
patients with a mean CD4 cell count of 350 cells/ micro L and moderate chronic 
hepatitis C stratified by genotype. Strategies included interferon alfa (48 
weeks), pegylated interferon alfa (48 weeks), interferon alfa and ribavirin (24 
and 48 weeks), pegylated interferon alfa and ribavirin (48 weeks), and no 
treatment. Outcomes included life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Treatment for moderate chronic HCV with combination therapy using an 
interferon-based regimen reduced the incidence of cirrhosis and provided gains 
in quality-adjusted life expectancy ranging from 6.2 to 13.9 months, depending 
on genotype. Regardless of genotype, the cost-effectiveness of interferon alfa 
and ribavirin for patients with moderate hepatitis was lower than $50 000 per 
QALY vs the next best strategy. With genotype 1, pegylated interferon alfa (vs 
interferon alfa) and ribavirin therapy provided an additional 1.6 
quality-adjusted life-months for $40 000 per QALY. Because treatment is more 
effective with non-1 genotypes, pegylated interferon (vs interferon alfa) and 
ribavirin provided only 3 additional quality-adjusted life-months for $105 300 
per QALY. For patients who were intolerant of ribavirin, monotherapy with 
pegylated interferon was always the most cost-effective option.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy for moderate hepatitis in coinfected patients 
will increase quality-adjusted life expectancy and have a cost-effectiveness 
ratio comparable to that of other well-accepted clinical interventions.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.162.22.2545
PMID: 12456226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2002 Dec;57(12):B409-14. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/57.12.b409.

Sex specificity, life-span QTLs, and statistical power.

Curtsinger JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul, USA.

Most of the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that have been found to influence 
life span in Drosophila and Mus organisms are reported to have genetic effects 
limited to one sex. Here I study the statistical properties of sex-limited QTLs 
by randomly sampling data from an exceptionally large Drosophila experiment, and 
then asking how sample size influences outcomes. The sampling study suggests 
that, for the particular data analyzed here, even moderately large experiments, 
of the order of 10(4) individuals, can have a high probability of detecting 
sex-limited effects when they are not actually present. If a particular QTL is 
present in both sexes, and if the probability of detecting it in each sex is 
moderately high, say 80%, then there is a 32% chance of erroneously concluding 
that there is sex specificity. A comparison of interval mapping and composite 
interval mapping methods of data analysis suggests that the latter can inflate 
the appearance of sex specificity and sexual antagonism, depending on the choice 
of number of background covariates in the analysis. Conclusive evidence for 
sex-limited QTLs will require demonstration that results are robust to methods 
of statistical analysis, and experimental replication.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/57.12.b409
PMID: 12456730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Dec 10;99(25):16203-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.212646299. Epub 2002 Nov 27.

Phospholipase A2 group IIA expression in gastric adenocarcinoma is associated 
with prolonged survival and less frequent metastasis.

Leung SY(1), Chen X, Chu KM, Yuen ST, Mathy J, Ji J, Chan AS, Li R, Law S, 
Troyanskaya OG, Tu IP, Wong J, So S, Botstein D, Brown PO.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Surgery, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.

We analyzed gene expression patterns in human gastric cancers by using cDNA 
microarrays representing approximately equal 30,300 genes. Expression of 
PLA2G2A, a gene previously implicated as a modifier of the Apc(Min/+) (multiple 
intestinal neoplasia 1) mutant phenotype in the mouse, was significantly 
correlated with patient survival. We confirmed this observation in an 
independent set of patient samples by using quantitative RT-PCR. Beyond its 
potential diagnostic and prognostic significance, this result suggests the 
intriguing possibility that the activity of PLA2G2A may suppress progression or 
metastasis of human gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.212646299
PMCID: PMC138589
PMID: 12456890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Oncology. 2003;64(1):18-24. doi: 10.1159/000066516.

Combined intrapleural and intravenous chemotherapy, and pulmonary irradiation, 
for treatment of patients with lung cancer presenting with malignant pleural 
effusion. A pilot study.

Su WC(1), Lai WW, Chen HH, Hsiue TR, Chen CW, Huang WT, Chen TY, Tsao CJ, Wang 
NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, 
Taiwan. sunnysu@mail.ncku.edu.tw

OBJECTIVES: Patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and malignant 
pleural effusion (MPE) are difficult to manage clinically and have a short life 
expectancy. In this pilot study, we designed a protocol of combined intrapleural 
(i.p.) and intravenous (i.v.) chemotherapy and pulmonary irradiation to enhance 
local as well as systemic control of the disease.
METHODS: From April 1998 to April 2000, 27 patients with NSCLC and symptomatic 
MPE were eligible for the study. Patients received pre-radiation chemotherapy 
(cisplatin 60 mg/m(2) i.p. on day 1; gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) i.v. on days 1, 
8, and 15, q4week x 3) after surgical implantation of i.p. and i.v. port-A, 
followed by radiotherapy (7,020 cGy/39fr), and, finally, post-radiation 
chemotherapy (docetaxel 60 mg/m(2) q3week x 3-6 i.v.).
RESULTS: Grade 1/2 nausea/vomiting and impaired renal function were more common 
from pre-radiation than post-radiation chemotherapy; however, grade 3/4 
toxicities from pre-radiation chemotherapy were minimal. Conversely, grade 3/4 
leukopenia and grade 1/2 alopecia, diarrhea, elevation of SGOT/SGPT, and sensory 
impairment were more common following post-radiation chemotherapy. Only two 
patients experienced recurrence of pleural effusion. The overall response rate 
was 55% with 7% complete remission, 48% partial remission, 22% stable disease, 
and 22% progressive disease. The median failure-free and overall survival was 8 
and 16 months, respectively. The one-year survival rate was 63% (95% confidence 
interval, 45-80%).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the combination of i.p. and i.v. chemotherapy and 
pulmonary irradiation is feasible and should be tested in a larger clinical 
trial to determine whether survival can be improved for this cohort of patients.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000066516
PMID: 12457027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Eur Addict Res. 2002 Nov;8(4):157-8. doi: 10.1159/000066139.

Drugs in countries of central and Eastern Europe.

Moskalewicz J.

DOI: 10.1159/000066139
PMID: 12457054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Health Econ. 2002 Dec;11(8):679-93. doi: 10.1002/hec.695.

QALY-maximisation and public preferences: results from a general population 
survey.

Bryan S(1), Roberts T, Heginbotham C, McCallum A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Facility, University of Birmingham, UK. s.bryan@bham.ac.uk

The appropriate criteria that should be used in setting priorities in a publicly 
funded health care system remain open to debate. From a health economics 
perspective, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are increasingly portrayed as a 
measure of societal value and the criterion of QALY maximisation is then 
advocated. This paper reports a study that investigated the extent to which some 
of the assumptions underlying the QALY maximisation approach, notably constant 
marginal societal value for increases in the size of health programmes, the 
level of risk, and the level of benefit are supported by members of the public. 
A general population interview-based survey was conducted. The survey design 
employed conjoint methods. In general, the public preference data from this 
study, in themselves, are not much at odds with the core proportionality 
assumptions concerning societal value in the QALY maximisation model 
assumptions. The data are, however, at odds with reports from various previous 
studies.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.695
PMID: 12457369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Health Econ. 2002 Dec;11(8):709-22. doi: 10.1002/hec.696.

The subjective costs of health losses due to chronic diseases. An alternative 
model for monetary appraisal.

Ferrer-i-Carbonell A(1), van Praag BM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics and Econometrics and SEO Amsterdam Economics, University 
of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. aferrer@fee.uva.nl

This paper proposes a method to evaluate health losses or gains by looking at 
the impact on well-being of a change in health status. The paper presents 
estimates of the equivalent income change that would be necessary to change 
general satisfaction with life to the same extent as a change in health 
satisfaction would do. In other words, the income equivalent of health 
satisfaction changes is estimated. Next, this health satisfaction changes are 
linked to specific diseases in order to estimate the income equivalent for these 
diseases. This method uses answers to well-being and health satisfaction 
questions as posed in a large German data set, distinguishing between workers 
and non-workers and between East and West Germans. It is found, for instance, 
that for West-German workers hearing impediments are on average equivalent to an 
income reduction of about 20%, and that heart or blood difficulties are for the 
same group equivalent to a 47% income reduction.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.696
PMID: 12457371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Pharmacoeconomics. 2002;20 Suppl 3:55-66. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200220003-00005.

The prospects for reform of the Japanese healthcare system.

Tokita T(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Economics, Hitotsubashi University, Tokyo, Japan. 
BYN01741@nifty.ne.jp

It is widely recognised that the Japanese healthcare system has been ranked as 
one of the best in the world because of its excellent efficiency and equity. The 
longevity and low infant mortality of the Japanese population have been achieved 
with a relatively low ratio of health expenditure to gross domestic product. All 
Japanese are covered by universal medical care insurance and all are provided 
with completely free access to the same medical care. Nevertheless, it should be 
pointed out that the medical care service is not as good as it looks. Owing to 
lack of competition between both hospitals and powerless insurers - the outcome 
of too many regulations - there is only a small incentive to improve the 
efficiency and quality of medical service. Furthermore, because of Japan's 
rapidly aging society and low birth rate, together with the long depression the 
economy has experienced, it is very difficult to maintain the 'pay-as-you-go' 
health system. For health system reform, our proposals are as follows: 
deregulating health markets, including pharmaceutical markets; strengthening the 
role of insurers; introducing information technology; and restructuring the 
healthcare of the elderly. We are expecting the new cabinet, which enjoys much 
popularity, to have the courage to initiate health reform along these lines, in 
spite of opposition from powerful interest groups, bureaucrats, and even members 
of ruling parties.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200220003-00005
PMID: 12457425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2001 Apr;27(2):114.

Nova T 380 and levonorgestrel IUS studies.

Richardson S, Cox M.

PMID: 12457529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Lancet. 2002 Nov 23;360(9346):1646-52. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)11612-6.

Cardiorespiratory and all-cause mortality after restrictions on sulphur content 
of fuel in Hong Kong: an intervention study.

Hedley AJ(1), Wong CM, Thach TQ, Ma S, Lam TH, Anderson HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong 
Kong. commed@hkucc.hku.hk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2003 Mar 1;361(9359):787-8.

BACKGROUND: In July, 1990, a restriction was introduced over one weekend that 
required all power plants and road vehicles in Hong Kong to use fuel oil with a 
sulphur content of not more than 0.5% by weight. This intervention led to an 
immediate fall in ambient sulphur dioxide (SO2). We assessed the effect of this 
intervention on mortality over the next 5 years.
METHODS: Changes in trends in deaths were estimated by a Poisson regression 
model of deaths each month between 1985 and 1995. Changes in seasonal deaths 
immediately after the intervention were measured by the increase in deaths from 
warm to cool season. We also estimated the annual proportional change in number 
of deaths before and after the intervention. We used age-specific death rates to 
estimate person-years of life gained.
FINDINGS: In the first 12 months after introduction of the restriction, a 
substantial reduction in seasonal deaths was noted, followed by a peak in the 
cool-season death rate between 13 and 24 months, returning to the expected 
pattern during years 3-5. Compared with predictions, the intervention led to a 
significant decline in the average annual trend in deaths from all causes (2.1%; 
p=0.001), respiratory (3.9%; p=0.0014) and cardiovascular (2.0%; p=0.0214) 
diseases, but not from other causes. The average gain in life expectancy per 
year of exposure to the lower pollutant concentration was 20 days (females) to 
41 days (males).
INTERPRETATION: Pollution resulting from sulphur-rich fuels has an effect on 
death rates, especially respiratory and cardiovascular deaths. The outcome of 
the Hong Kong intervention provides direct evidence that control of this 
pollution has immediate and long-term health benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)11612-6
PMID: 12457788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Am J Manag Care. 2002 Nov;8(17 Suppl):S502-17.

Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis with COX-2-selective 
inhibitors: a managed care perspective.

Hochberg MC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA.

The development of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-selective inhibitors represents a 
major advance in the management of chronic pain and inflammation that may 
satisfy an unmet medical need for agents with improved gastrointestinal (GI) 
safety. This article is a review of the pharmacology, clinical efficacy, and 
safety of COX-2-selective inhibitors in the managed healthcare setting. The 
efficacy of COX-2-selective inhibitors in relieving chronic pain from 
osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis is comparable to that of traditional 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). However, the occurrence of GI 
complications may be less frequent in patients who receive COX-2-selective 
inhibitors than in patients receiving traditional NSAIDs. Thus, the use of 
COX-2-selective inhibitors for the management of chronic pain may reduce overall 
costs and provide an alternative with an improved safety profile compared with 
traditional NSAIDs.

PMID: 12458820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Med Decis Making. 2002 Nov-Dec;22(6):475-81. doi: 10.1177/0272989X02238300.

A meta-analysis of utility estimates for HIV/AIDS.

Tengs TO(1), Lin TH.

Author information:
(1)Health Priorities Research Group, School of Social Ecology, University of 
California, Irvine 92697-7075, USA. tengs@uci.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2002 Nov-Dec;22(6):522-5.

The authors performed a meta-analysis to derive pooled utilities for HIV/AIDS 
and to assess the relative importance of study design characteristics in 
predicting utilities. Twenty-five articles were identified reporting 74 unique 
utilities elicited from 1956 respondents. The authors used a hierarchical linear 
model to perform the meta-analysis, with disease stage, elicitation method, 
respondent type, and the upper-bound and lower-bound labels for the utility 
scale as the independent variables. Disease stage (P = 0.016) and respondent 
type (P = 0.014) were significant predictors of utility. Elicitation method was 
of marginal significance (P = 0. 052). Bounds were not significant. Pooling 
utilities, the authors estimate a utility of 0.70 for AIDS, 0.82 for symptomatic 
HIV and 0.94 for asymptomatic HIV when the time tradeoff method is used to 
elicit utilities from patients and the scale ranges from death to perfect 
health. The pooled utilities reported here should be of great use to researchers 
performing cost-utility analyses of interventions for HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X02238300
PMID: 12458977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Dec 3;137(11):917-29. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-137-11-200212030-00014.

Screening for prostate cancer: an update of the evidence for the U.S. Preventive 
Services Task Force.

Harris R(1), Lohr KN.

Author information:
(1)Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, CB# 7590, University of 
North Carolina School of Medicine, 725 Airport Road, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7590, 
USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 16;139(6):531-2; discussion 532.
    J Urol. 2003 Jul;170(1):312-3.
    Ann Intern Med. 2005 Aug 2;143(3):232-3.

BACKGROUND: In U.S. men, prostate cancer is the most common noncutaneous cancer 
and the second leading cause of cancer death. Screening for prostate cancer is 
controversial.
PURPOSE: To examine for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force the evidence of 
benefits and harms of screening and earlier treatment.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE and the Cochrane Library, experts, and bibliographies of 
reviews.
STUDY SELECTION: Researchers developed eight questions representing a logical 
chain between screening and reduced mortality, along with eligibility criteria 
for admissible evidence for each question. Admissible evidence was obtained by 
searching the data sources.
DATA EXTRACTION: Two reviewers abstracted relevant information using 
standardized abstraction forms and graded article quality according to Task 
Force criteria.
DATA SYNTHESIS: No conclusive direct evidence shows that screening reduces 
prostate cancer mortality. Some screening tests can detect prostate cancer at an 
earlier stage than clinical detection. One study provides good evidence that 
radical prostatectomy reduces disease-specific mortality for men with localized 
prostate cancer detected clinically. No study has examined the additional 
benefit of earlier treatment after detection by screening. Men with a life 
expectancy of fewer than 10 years are unlikely to benefit from screening even 
under favorable assumptions. Each treatment is associated with several 
well-documented potential harms.
CONCLUSIONS: Although potential harms of screening for prostate cancer can be 
established, the presence or magnitude of potential benefits cannot. Therefore, 
the net benefit of screening cannot be determined.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-137-11-200212030-00014
PMID: 12458993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Melanoma Res. 2002 Dec;12(6):607-17. doi: 10.1097/00008390-200212000-00011.

Modelling the cost-effectiveness of sentinel lymph node mapping and adjuvant 
interferon treatment for stage II melanoma.

Wilson LS(1), Reyes CM, Lu C, Lu M, Yen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of California San Francisco, 
94143-0613, USA. lwilson@itsa.ucsf.edu

Clinical studies have demonstrated that high dose adjuvant interferon therapy 
improves disease-free and overall survival among high risk (stage IIb and III) 
melanoma patients. Sentinel lymph node mapping (SLM) has been shown to 
accurately detect micrometastasis and may be used to identify higher risk stage 
II patients, who might benefit most from adjuvant interferon therapy. We 
modelled the cost-effectiveness of first testing with SLM and then treating with 
adjuvant interferon (IFN) therapy for stage II melanoma. We used a decision 
analytical model to compare four strategies for stage II patients after surgical 
excision of their melanoma: (1) treat all with low dose IFN; (2) test first with 
SLM and then treat only those with positive micrometastasis with high dose IFN; 
(3) test first with SLM and treat positives with high dose IFN and negatives 
with low dose IFN (test and treat appropriately); and (4) surgery only. 
Treatment, toxicity, follow-up and relapse costs were included over a 5 year 
time period. The primary outcome was cost per quality-adjusted relapse-free life 
year saved. Our analysis shows that, compared with the current surgery-only 
strategy, all three treatment strategies provide incremental benefits. The test 
and treat appropriately strategy is the most effective, with an incremental 
improvement of 0.64 quality-adjusted life-years (QALY). The cost-effectiveness 
of test and treat some with high dose IFN compared with the surgery-only 
strategy is $18,700/QALY. The test and treat appropriately strategy is also 
cost-effective compared with test and treat some at $31,100/QALY. In conclusion 
appropriate dosing of IFN therapy based on the results of SLM is a 
cost-effective strategy for stage II melanoma patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00008390-200212000-00011
PMID: 12459651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Nutr Health Aging. 2002;6(6):392-404.

Effects of fruits and vegetables on levels of vitamins E and C in the brain and 
