their association with cognitive performance.

Martin A(1), Cherubini A, Andres-Lacueva C, Paniagua M, Joseph J.

Author information:
(1)USDA-Neuroscience Laboratory, Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition, Research 
Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA. 
amartin@hnrc.tufts.edu

Demographic trends, together with improvements in general health and life 
expectancy, will greatly change the population structures of most industrialized 
and developing countries during the next 50 years. By 2050, approximately 30% of 
people in industrialized countries will be 65 years old or older. Aging is 
associated with increased risk for neurodegenerative disorders, which can cause 
significant cognitive and physical impairment and shortened lifespan, thereby 
causing a burden to society. Diets rich in fruits and vegetables have been shown 
to improve human well-being and to significantly delay the development of 
pathologic processes, including neurodegenerative disorders. Foods are important 
sources of micronutrients, including vitamins E and C, which play crucial roles 
in optimal cell function. Vitamin E is an important component of biologic 
membranes, and vitamin C acts as a cosubstrate for several enzymes. Both E and C 
are involved in the antioxidant defense of cells and actively contribute to the 
redox status of the cell. The levels of vitamins E and C provided by diet vary 
significantly. Vegetable oils, nuts and seeds are the main dietary sources of 
vitamin E, whereas fruits and vegetable are the primary sources of vitamin C. 
Human trials of varying doses of vitamins E and C, including low, supplemental, 
and pharmacologic, have found that these nutrients may improve immunity, 
vascular function, and brain performance. An optimal intake of these nutrients 
has been associated with decreased risk of developing cognitive impairments 
associated with aging. This paper will review the scientific literature on the 
sources, tissue levels and roles of vitamins E and C in cognitive performance 
and pathologic processes of the central nervous system in the elderly.

PMID: 12459890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Osteoporos Int. 2002 Dec;13(12):990-5. doi: 10.1007/s001980200137.

How many children remain fracture-free during growth? a longitudinal study of 
children and adolescents participating in the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health 
and Development Study.

Jones IE(1), Williams SM, Dow N, Goulding A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Otago Medical School, University 
of Otago, Bunedin, New Zealand.

While much is known regarding the incidence and pattern of fractures during 
growth, information is sparse as to how many children fracture repeatedly and 
how many remain fracture-free during growth. The Dunedin Multidisciplinary 
Health and Development Study, a birth cohort, whose members were questioned 
regularly throughout growth (at ages 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 and 18 years) 
concerning injuries including fractures, has provided a unique opportunity to 
answer these questions. Life-table analysis showed that approximately half the 
children remained fracture-free throughout growth [girls 60.1%, (95% CI 
54.7-65.0) and boys 49.3% (95% CI 44.0-54.4)]. Data on fracture history, for 
participants seen at every phase, was available for 601 members through to the 
age of 18 years (61.1% of the cohort seen at age 5 years). Two hundred and 
ninety-one of these 601 participants reported 498 fractures, with 172 sustaining 
a single fracture, and 119 more than one fracture (15.8% girls and 23.4% boys). 
The most common site of fracture was the wrist/forearm (24.1% of all fractures). 
We conclude that although bone fractures are a common adverse event in 
childhood, half of all children remain fracture-free throughout growth.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980200137
PMID: 12459942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Environ Health Perspect. 2002 Dec;110(12):1253-60. doi:
10.1289/ehp.021101253.

The importance of population susceptibility for air pollution risk assessment: a 
case study of power plants near Washington, DC.

Levy JI(1), Greco SL, Spengler JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. jilevy@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2002 Dec;110(12):A764.

In evaluating risks from air pollution, health impact assessments often focus on 
the magnitude of the impacts without explicitly considering the distribution of 
impacts across subpopulations. In this study, we constructed a model to estimate 
the magnitude and distribution of health benefits associated with emission 
controls at five older power plants in the Washington, DC, area. We used the 
CALPUFF atmospheric dispersion model to determine the primary and secondary 
fine-particulate-matter (< 2.5 micro m in aerodynamic diameter) concentration 
reductions associated with the hypothetical application of "Best Available 
Control Technology" to the selected power plants. We combined these 
concentration reductions with concentration-response functions for mortality and 
selected morbidity outcomes, using a conventional approach as well as 
considering susceptible subpopulations. Incorporating susceptibility had a 
minimal effect on total benefits, with central estimates of approximately 240 
fewer premature deaths, 60 fewer cardiovascular hospital admissions (CHA), and 
160 fewer pediatric asthma emergency room visits (ERV) per year. However, 
because individuals with lower education appear to have both higher background 
mortality rates and higher relative risks for air-pollution-related mortality, 
stratifying by educational attainment implies that 51% of the mortality benefits 
accrue among the 25% of the population with less than high school education. 
Similarly, diabetics and African Americans bear disproportionate shares of the 
CHA and ERV benefits, respectively. Although our ability to characterize 
subpopulations is constrained by the available information, our analysis 
demonstrates that incorporation of susceptibility information significantly 
affects demographic and geographic patterns of health benefits and enhances our 
understanding of individuals likely to benefit from emission controls.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.021101253
PMCID: PMC1241114
PMID: 12460806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2002 Dec;(405):101-7. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-200212000-00012.

The middle-aged patient with hip arthritis: the case for extensively coated 
stems.

Della Valle CJ(1), Paprosky WG.

Author information:
(1)Central DuPage Hospital, Winfield, IL, and Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's 
Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

Younger patients with a long life expectancy and higher activity levels who 
require total hip arthroplasty present a unique challenge to the reconstructive 
surgeon. To improve the longevity of total hip arthroplasty, particularly in 
younger, more active patients, femoral components inserted without cement have 
been used in an attempt to create a more durable reconstruction. 
Extensively-coated implants are an attractive option because they are associated 
with excellent initial implant stability and contact a large area of strong 
cortical bone in the femoral diaphysis where bony ingrowth reliably occurs. In a 
cohort of 304 patients (348 hips) who were between 45 and 65 years at the time 
of surgery and who were followed up for a mean of 14.2 years, 99.4% of the 
femoral reconstructions were stable with no cases of late failure secondary to 
loosening and a 96% rate of good to excellent clinical results. Although stress 
shielding, thigh pain, and difficulty of removal have been cited as problems 
with the use of these devices, in the current authors' experience they have not 
proved to be clinically relevant issues that limit the successfulness of total 
hip arthroplasty in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-200212000-00012
PMID: 12461361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Epidemiol. 2002 Nov;12(6):450-6. doi: 10.2188/jea.12.450.

Influence of death from circulatory diseases on life expectancy at birth in 
Japan.

Watanabe T(1), Omori M, Fukuda H, Takada H, Miyao M, Ohsawa I, Oshida Y, Sato Y, 
Hasegawa T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya University, Japan.

This study aims to evaluate the contribution of the change in circulatory 
diseases mortality to the life expectancy at birth observed during the years 
1955-1995 in Japan. We used data on the population and the number of deaths by 
cause, age, and sex in 1955, 1965, 1975, 1985, and 1995. The contribution of 
different ages and causes of death to the change in life expectancy were 
examined with the method developed by Pollard. We found that the reduction in 
circulatory diseases mortality contributed to the improvements in life 
expectancy for both sexes during the decade 1975-1985. Much of this was due to 
the decrease in cerebrovascular disease. In the years 1985-1995, however, the 
contribution of cerebrovascular disease decreased in both sexes, while that of 
heart disease grew to become the largest of any single condition. By age, the 
contribution of all circulatory diseases increased among the elderly in recent 
years. The contribution of the change in circulatory diseases mortality to the 
life expectancy at birth has increased in recent years but seems to have reached 
a plateau. The weight against improvements in life expectancy in middle-aged 
people has shown little change, so that reducing the mortality rate in 
middle-aged people is now a major issue.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.12.450
PMCID: PMC10681819
PMID: 12462280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Aug;14(4):287-92. doi: 10.1007/BF03324452.

Evolution of the needs of older persons.

Santos-Eggimann B(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, 
University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Brigitte.Santos-Eggimann@inst.hospvd.ch

Most countries in the world experienced a major increase in life expectancy 
during the 20th century and a resulting aging of their populations. Further 
gains in life expectancy are uncertain, particularly in developed countries 
already characterized by a high longevity, and little is known concerning the 
health state of future generations of the elderly. But there is no doubt that 
further population aging will produce larger numbers of older persons both in 
developed and developing countries. As the prevalence of most chronic diseases 
is high in old age, population needs change rapidly in health care systems still 
organized essentially to provide acute care to children and young adults. Old 
age is heterogeneous, but a large proportion of older persons is affected by 
multiple chronic diseases, resulting in a wide range of needs. Health systems 
will have to adapt to this new situation while still providing appropriate 
responses to acute diseases affecting all ages. Although future needs are 
difficult to quantify, their nature is already apparent. Providing for these 
needs will require a major investment in manpower, a diversification of services 
delivered by health care systems, changes in the training of health 
professionals and extensive research to define effective treatments for elderly 
patients with multiple co-morbidities.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324452
PMID: 12462374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Aug;14(4):314-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03324456.

Rejuvenating health systems for aging communities.

Paccaud F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine of Lausanne 
and Cantonal Hospices, Lausanne, Switzerland. Fred.Paccaud@inst.hospvd.ch

Nowadays, about the half of Swiss women die after their 84th birthday. This 
unprecedented proportion of the population reaching an old age, or even a very 
old age (25% of women die after 89 years, and 5% after 95 years) is a novel 
aspect of human demographics, and represents the very last stage of the 
epidemiological transition, a term coined to describe the transformation of the 
prevailing health burden in the population, shifting from infectious and 
communicable pathologies to chronic and degenerative diseases. In developed 
countries, this epidemiological transition has been well documented during the 
last century; worldwide, a similar transition is taking place, with some 
countries still at mid or early stages of transition. A striking aspect of the 
current transition is its speed. In India, the mean duration of life since 1947 
has increased from 32 to 62 years. As a result, India, like many other 
developing countries, is facing a double burden of disease, i.e., an upsurge of 
degenerative diseases while the burden from the old agenda (i.e., malaria, 
tuberculosis) still reaches devastating proportions in the population. This 
double burden is certainly a crucial problem in developing countries, and 
probably is the most important health challenge for the coming century. A 
similar accelerated pace of change is observed with the decline of mortality at 
old age. Worldwide, the current estimate of centenarians is 100000, i.e., ten 
time more centenarians than the number estimated in 1960. The downward trend in 
mortality, which is steeper with increasing age, is now the leading factor to 
Increase the life expectancy in developed countries. In the United Kingdom, life 
expectancy increased by 2.5 years between 1971 and 1991; this is equivalent to 
the increase observed between 1851 and 1961. This accelerated increase will 
influence public health in two different ways. The first will be the absolute 
increase in the number of older persons, with a corresponding increase in 
degenerative diseases. A second consequence will be the need for a substantial 
and rapid adaptation of the health care system. Three selected aspects are 
addressed below: 1) the increase of resources, 2) the improvement of 
performance, and 3) the reduction of demand through preventive strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324456
PMID: 12462378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2002 Nov;29(11):1951-61.

Asian trends in prostate cancer hormone therapy.

Akaza H(1), Naito S, Cheng C, Kaisary A, Soebadi DM, Umbas R, Esuvaranathan K, 
Gu FL, Zhou L, Hong SJ, Kim WJ, Lee SE, Rim JS, Song JM, Yoon JH, Chang SJ, 
Huang CH, Yang CR, Hirao Y, Murai M, Tsukamoto T, Usami M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Urology, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8576, Japan. 
akazah@md.tsukuba.ac.jp

The first Conference on Asian Trends in Prostate Cancer Hormone Therapy was held 
in September 2001 to serve as a forum for Asian urologists to compare data on 
prostate cancer and discuss issues regarding the use of hormone therapy. The 
conference revealed that due to various cultural and philosophical factors, 
differences exist in prostate cancer management among the Asian countries. In 
addition, a lack of databases on hormone therapy was exposed in some countries. 
It was noted that many decisions in the treatment of prostate cancer are 
influenced by the strategies adopted in Western countries, and that attempts to 
formulate uniform guidelines for the Asian region have hitherto been 
unsuccessful. The main findings of the conference are reported in this review.

PMID: 12465395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. RN. 2002 Nov;65(11):43-8; quiz 49.

A new age for childhood diseases. Down syndrome.

Finesilver C(1).

Author information:
(1)Bellin College of Nursing, Green Bay, Wis., USA.

PMID: 12465526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Ophthalmology. 2002 Dec;109(12):2265-71. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01286-1.

A cost-utility analysis of therapy for amblyopia.

Membreno JH(1), Brown MM, Brown GC, Sharma S, Beauchamp GR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 
19031, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of the incremental cost-effectiveness of therapy for 
amblyopia.
DESIGN: Cost-utility reference-case analysis.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed from a third-party insurer 
perspective by using decision analysis, evidence-based data from the literature, 
and patient preference-based time trade-off utility values.
DATABASE: Patient-derived time trade-off ocular utility values and the American 
Academy of Ophthalmology Preferred Practice Pattern guidelines for the treatment 
of amblyopia.
INTERVENTION: Treatment of childhood amblyopia using medical and surgical 
therapies per the American Academy of Ophthalmology Preferred Practice Pattern.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Dollars (year 2001 nominal U.S. dollars) expended per 
quality-adjusted life-year ($/QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Treatment for amblyopia resulted in a $/QALY gained of $2281 with a 
discount rate of 3% for costs and outcomes. Sensitivity analysis, varying costs 
and utility values by 10%, resulted in a $/QALY gained range from $2053 to 
$2509.
CONCLUSIONS: When compared with other interventions in health care, therapy for 
amblyopia seems to be highly cost-effective. This information is increasingly 
important for health care policy makers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(02)01286-1
PMID: 12466169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nucleic Acids Res. 2002 Dec 1;30(23):e131. doi: 10.1093/nar/gnf131.

Predicting the success of primer extension genotyping assays using statistical 
modeling.

Yuryev A(1), Huang J, Pohl M, Patch R, Watson F, Bell P, Donaldson M, Phillips 
MS, Boyce-Jacino MT.

Author information:
(1)Orchid Biosciences, Orchid Life Sciences, 303 East College Road, Princeton, 
NJ 08540, USA. ayuryev@orchid.com

Using an empirical panel of more than 20 000 single base primer extension 
(SNP-IT) assays we have developed a set of statistical scores for evaluating and 
rank ordering various parameters of the SNP-IT reaction to facilitate 
high-throughput assay primer design with improved likelihood of success. Each 
score predicts either signal magnitude from primer extension or signal noise 
caused by mispriming of primers and structure of the PCR product. All scores 
have been shown to correlate with the success/failure rate of the SNP-IT 
reaction, based on analysis of assay results. A logistic regression analysis was 
applied to combine all scored parameters into one measure predicting the overall 
success/failure rate of a given SNP marker. Three training sets for different 
types of SNP-IT reaction, each containing about 22 000 SNP markers, were used to 
assign weights to each score and optimize the prediction of the combined 
measure. c-Statistics of 0.69, 0.77 and 0.72 were achieved for three training 
sets. This new statistical prediction can be used to improve primer design for 
the SNP-IT reaction and evaluate the probability of genotyping success for a 
given SNP based on analysis of the surrounding genomic sequence.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gnf131
PMCID: PMC137986
PMID: 12466563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Int J Audiol. 2002 Jan;41(1):48-56. doi: 10.3109/14992020209101312.

Directivity of different hearing aid microphone locations.

Olsen HL(1), Hagerman B.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Technical and Clinical Audiology, Department of Clinical 
Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. Henrik.Olsen@cns.ki.se

Comment in
    Int J Audiol. 2003 Jan;42(1):52-4; author reply 55.

In this study, we present a new method to derive a single-number measure of the 
directivity of hearing aids. The method is an extension of the conventional 
directivity index (DI), and is called overall directivity index (ODI). The 
directivities of five different hearing aid styles were compared with that of 
the open ear. The behind-the-ear (BTE) style showed the lowest directionality 
compared to the other hearing aid styles and the open ear. There were only minor 
differences in directivity between any of the four different hearing aid styles 
placed in the ear and of the open ear canal. The conventional measure of DI is 
less suitable for hearing aids, because it ignores sound coming from other than 
the frontal direction. To quantify directionality of a hearing aid in a 
real-life situation, we suggest the single-number ODI, weighted with the 
articulation index and related to a listening segment of 0-30 degrees. An 
application of the data is shown for a BTE with a directional microphone.

DOI: 10.3109/14992020209101312
PMID: 12467370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Neuromuscul Disord. 2002 Dec;12(10):926-9. doi:
10.1016/s0960-8966(02)00140-2.

Survival in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: improvements in life expectancy since 
1967 and the impact of home nocturnal ventilation.

Eagle M(1), Baudouin SV, Chandler C, Giddings DR, Bullock R, Bushby K.

Author information:
(1)Newcastle Muscle Centre, International Centre for Life, Central Parkway, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3BZ, UK.

We reviewed the notes of 197 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy whose 
treatment was managed at the Newcastle muscle centre from 1967 to 2002, to 
determine whether survival has improved over the decades and whether the impact 
of nocturnal ventilation altered the pattern of survival. Patients were grouped 
according to the decade of death and whether or not they were ventilated. Kaplan 
Meier survival analyses showed significant decade on decade improvement in 
survival. Mean age of death in the 1960s was 14.4 years, whereas for those 
ventilated since 1990 it was 25.3 years. Cardiomyopathy significantly shortened 
life expectancy from 19 years to a mean age of 16.9 years. Better coordinated 
care probably improved the chances of survival to 25 years from 0% in the 1960s 
to 4% in the 1970s and 12% in the 1980s, but the impact of nocturnal ventilation 
has further improved this chance to 53% for those ventilated since 1990.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-8966(02)00140-2
PMID: 12467747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2002 Dec;12(6):567-74. doi: 
10.1016/s0924-977x(02)00105-0.

Receptor binding and drug modulation in anxiety.

Malizia AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, University of Bristol, University Walk, BS8 1TD, 
Bristol, UK. andrea.l.malizia@bristol.ac.uk

Anxiety is an emotion that allows an individual to prepare for, or respond to, 
changes in the environment. For many people, however, this emotion is expressed 
inappropriately and impairs their lives causing considerable distress and 
disability. These disorders cause a great deal of personal distress, result in 
reduced life expectancy and, in the UK alone, have an estimated cost of 
approximately pound 5 billion per year. Despite a great deal of research, an 
adequate account of the mechanisms that underlie these human disorders is still 
lacking. An understanding of the brain substrates underlying these disorders is 
likely to provide such adequate explanations, but one of the principal 
challenges facing the investigators has been the reciprocal mapping of 
pre-clinical and clinical knowledge. Altogether, the last 10 years have seen a 
consolidation of imaging techniques. These are now mature in many areas and are 
likely to provide fundamental contributions in our understanding of human 
psychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1016/s0924-977x(02)00105-0
PMID: 12468019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Vasc Surg. 2002 Dec;36(6):1112-20. doi: 10.1067/mva.2002.129646.

Life expectancy after endovascular versus open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair: 
results of a decision analysis model on the basis of data from EUROSTAR.

Schermerhorn ML(1), Finlayson SR, Fillinger MF, Buth J, van Marrewijk C, 
Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, 1 Medical 
Center Drive, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA. marc.schermerhorn@hitchcock.org

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Although endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) 
repair (ENDO) has decreased operative morbidity risks compared with open AAA 
repair (OPEN), risks of rupture and reintervention are higher after ENDO. We 
used decision analysis to examine the effect of these competing risks on 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) after ENDO and OPEN.
METHODS: We used a Markov decision-analysis model to simulate hypothetic cohorts 
of patients undergoing ENDO or OPEN. Patients moved through a multistate 
transition model according to probabilities derived from the literature, the 
EUROSTAR database (for ENDO) and Medicare claims data (for OPEN). Our primary 
outcome measure was QALE after surgery. We used sensitivity analysis to 
determine which factors most influenced this outcome.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis of 70-year-old men, life expectancy after 
ENDO was 7.09 quality-adjusted life years compared with 7.03 quality-adjusted 
life years for OPEN, a difference of 3 weeks. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
at less than age 64 years, OPEN results in greater QALE. However, the difference 
in QALE was small (<3 months) across the entire range of ages studied (60 to 85 
years). The optimal strategy was sensitive to changes in ENDO and OPEN operative 
mortality rate, rupture rate after ENDO, late conversion to OPEN rate, ENDO 
revision rate, and OPEN reoperation rate. However, the difference between OPEN 
and ENDO strategies was small across the plausible range of most of these 
variables.
CONCLUSION: For most patients who are candidates for AAA repair, ENDO and OPEN 
result in similar QALE. Decision analysis suggests that OPEN may be preferred 
for younger patients with low operative risk and ENDO may be preferred for older 
patients with higher operative risk. However, given the similarity in overall 
outcome, patient preference should be weighed heavily in decision making.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2002.129646
PMID: 12469041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. J Gen Appl Microbiol. 2002 Aug;48(4):223-31. doi: 10.2323/jgam.48.223.

A promoter activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae of the 3'-noncoding region of 
the basidiomycetous mushroom gene.

Yamazaki T(1), Yasuda T, Miyazaki Y, Okada K, Kajiwara S, Shishido K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, 
Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama 226-8501, Japan. 
tayamaza@bio.titech.ac.jp

The 3'-noncoding region of the priB gene derived from the basidiomycete Lentinus 
edodes was found to contain one GC box-like sequence, two CAAT boxes, two TATA 
box-like sequences and two pyrimidine-rich stretches (CT-motifs). It also 
contained a 16-bp sequence similar to the consensus sequence for PRIB protein 
binding and a short (61 bp) intron. Single-strand-specific S1 nuclease analysis 
of plasmid pBR322 DNA containing the 3'-noncoding region propagated in 
Escherichia coli revealed that this region forms an unusual, extended open 
structure within/around the downstream pyrimidine/purine (CT/AG)-biased 
sequence. To examine the promoter activity of the priB 3'-noncoding region in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in which an autonomously replicating plasmid vector is 
available, we constructed two plasmids, YEp3'NCR-lacZ and YEp3'UTR-lacZ. The 
former contains the priB 3'-noncoding region and the reporter E. coli 
beta-galactosidase gene while the latter contains the priB 3'-noncoding region 
lacking the intron and the reporter gene. The yeast transformants obtained 
through introductions of these plasmids showed beta-galactosidase activity and 
the activity conferred by YEp3'NCR-lacZ was about 50% of that conferred by 
YEp3'UTR-lacZ. The primer extension analysis showed that transcription of the 
reporter gene on both plasmids starts at three alternative sites all of which 
are located within the downstream CT-motif, suggesting a role for the unusual 
structure of the CT/AG-biased sequence in the initiation of transcription.

DOI: 10.2323/jgam.48.223
PMID: 12469321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(10):844. Epub 2002 Nov 28.

European report shows growing inequities in wealth and health.

[No authors listed]

PMCID: PMC2567646
PMID: 12471414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Aging Male. 2002 Sep;5(3):129-38.

Gender-specific health care in the 21st century: a focus on developing 
countries.

Kalache A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing and Health Programme, World Health Organization, CH-1211 Geneva, 
Switzerland.

PMID: 12471774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Aging Male. 2002 Sep;5(3):147-69.

Is aging a disease? A review of the Serono Symposia Workshop held under the 
auspices of the 3rd World Congress on the Aging Male. February 9, 2002, Berlin, 
Germany.

Walker RF(1).

Author information:
(1)Paradox Regulatory and Scientific Services, Inc., Florida, USA.

On February 9, 2002, Serono Symposia sponsored a workshop at The 3rd World 
Congress on The Aging Male that was held in Berlin, Germany at the Hotel 
Inter-Continental. The title of the workshop 'Is aging a disease?', was intended 
to convey recent interest in the subject of aging as a clinically relevant 
entity and to discuss causes and approaches to its management. The Workshop was 
co-chaired by Drs Viktor Büber and Richard F. Walker. Speakers included Drs 
George R. Merriam, Heinrich M. Schulte, Felice Strollo and Richard F. Walker. 
Topics were arranged to proceed from a general overview of fundamental aspects 
of the aging process and their clinical consequences to specific aspects of the 
diagnosis and treatment of age-related disorders that could be associated with 
neuroendocrine dysfunction. F. Strollo initiated the series of lectures by 
reviewing some of the biological theories of aging and suggesting that 
maladaptive changes within the central nervous and endocrine systems play a 
major role in contributing to the cascade of events defined as senescence. R. 
Walker expanded upon this background by differentiating aging and disease. He 
suggested that while the process of aging is not a disease, it is directly 
responsible for the development of functional decrements causal of the intrinsic 
disease, frailty and general morbidity that occur in direct relation to 
advancing chronological age. From this generalized approach of linking age and 
disease, G. Merriam discussed a specific example in which age-related decrements 
in neuroendocrine dysfunction could contribute, at least in part, to senescent 
changes in body composition and physiological function. Specifically, he 
provided evidence that the gradual decline in growth hormone (GH) and 
testosterone secretion during aging is accompanied by anatomical and functional 
changes resembling pathogenic hormone deficiency. He went on to discuss possible 
interventions into this process, specifically showing data to support the view 
that a combination of GH secretagogues and sex hormones may be of value in 
sustaining health and vitality in the elderly. As an extension of this 
discussion, H. M. Schulte compared and contrasted age changes in sex hormone 
secretion between genders, and also stressed that the diagnosis and management 
of endocrine changes during life has become a serious challenge to those 
physicians intending to intervene in the aging process. Because the relationship 
of reduced hormone secretion to disease in the elderly is presently unclear, the 
Workshop concluded on a note of caution that guidelines for the replacement of 
endocrine substances as a prophylactic approach to aging have yet to be defined.

PMID: 12471776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Surg Clin North Am. 2002 Aug;82(4):867-83. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(02)00036-1.

Malignant pleural effusions.

Putnam JB Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, The University of Texas, 
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Box 445 Houston, TX 
77030-4095, USA. putnam@mdanderson.org

The management of pleural effusions and, in particular, recurrent MPE require an 
accurate assessment of the characteristics of the pleural fluid and the relief 
of the patient's symptoms. Although a common problem, treatment of pleural 
effusions and MPE is highly variable. Selection of optimal treatment for the 
individual patient (or population of patients) requires a careful assessment of 
the benefits and associated risks of the therapy. Pleurodesis is an artificial 
measure of success that is hospital centered, not patient centered. Because 
patients with MPE have limited life expectancy, efforts to palliate or eliminate 
dyspnea, optimize function, eliminate hospitalization, and reduce excessive 
end-of-life medical care costs may be best achieved with a chronic indwelling 
pleural catheter. The need for expensive supplies may temper the use of such 
outpatient management. Alternative techniques of tube thoracostomy, drainage, 
and sclerosis or thoracoscopy with drainage and talc poudrage also have benefits 
but are associated with variable hospitalization and increased medical costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(02)00036-1
PMID: 12472134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Clin Exp Optom. 2000 May-Jun;83(3):136-144. doi: 
10.1111/j.1444-0938.2000.tb04908.x.

Management of ocular hypertension and primary open angle glaucoma.

Rait JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Suite 112/320 Victoria Parade, East Melbourne, Victoria, 3002, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma and ocular hypertension are among the most common 
pathologies encountered in clinical practice. Within the next 20 years, patients 
with these two problems will increase threefold as the population ages. The 
growing burden of glaucoma worldwide will also become a significant public 
health problem. The effective management of glaucoma will require the 
introduction of new screening strategies and better therapeutic approaches to 
these disorders. METHODS: Our current understanding of the epidemiology of 
primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension is reviewed. Diagnosis and 
treatment strategies are discussed in the context of the current best available 
clinical trial and laboratory data. RESULTS: While few patients with ocular 
hypertension will require therapy, it is the conventional practice to lower the 
intraocular pressure by at least one-third once glaucomatous optic neuropathy is 
detected. Topical beta-adrenergic antagonists have been the preferred first-line 
therapy for primary open angle glaucoma for the past 20 years, but with the 
advent of topical prostaglandin analogues and alpha-2 agonists, the 
effectiveness of medical therapy has improved significantly. The decision to 
perform glaucoma filtering surgery or laser trabeculoplasty must be carefully 
considered and based on the past response to medication, the extent and rate of 
progression of any visual field loss, and on the life expectancy and wishes of 
the patient. CONCLUSION: The treatment of chronic glaucoma is directed at 
preserving vision and interfering with the quality of life of the patient as 
little as possible. Many older patients who develop primary open angle glaucoma 
may have a limited life expectancy and do not require aggressive medical therapy 
or surgery. Many new medications have become available that permit less frequent 
dosing with fewer local and systemic side-effects. In the near future, therapies 
that address the underlying molecular basis of glaucomatous optic neuropathy 
might become available and further reduce the risk of glaucoma blindness.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1444-0938.2000.tb04908.x
PMID: 12472446


135. Aust J Rural Health. 2002 Dec;10(6):285-7. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1584.2002.00385.x.

One approach to improving indigenous health care through medical education.

Hays R(1).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of General Practice and Rural Medicine, School of Medicine, James 
Cook University, Townsville, Queensland, Australia. richard.hays@jcu.edu.au

The present paper discusses some of the issues relating to the poorer health and 
shorter life expectancy of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
peoples. The barriers to improvement include funding of the medical service, the 
nature of early contact between Indigenous peoples and the European settlers, 
and the complex nature of Indigenous cultures. The role of the new medical 
school at James Cook University is discussed in relation to its mission of 
meeting the health care needs of the population of tropical and rural North 
Queensland. Indigenous representation in the management of the Medical School, 
staff selection, student selection, and curriculum content are discussed, and 
recommendations are made for a partnership approach to achieving improvements in 
the functioning of the health system of the area.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1584.2002.00385.x
PMID: 12472609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2002 Dec;17 Suppl 3:S428-33. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.17.s3.40.x.

Evidence-based medicine in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Llovet JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Clínic Liver Cancer Group, Liver Unit, Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, 
Catalonia, Spain.

The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma is increasing worldwide. Diagnosis at 
early stage is crucial to allow the application of curative treatments, that are 
the sole hope to increase their life expectancy. Surgical resection and liver 
transplantation are considered the first line options for early tumors, although 
there is no agreement on which is the best treatment approach. Resection 
achieves excellent results in patients with single tumors, absence of portal 
hypertension and normal bilirubin, but is limited by the high recurrence rate. 
Liver transplantation also achieves excellent results in patients with single 
tumors smaller than 5 cm or even three nodules smaller than 3 cm. However, this 
procedure is hampered by the shortage of donors and the increasing waiting times 
that have reduced their intention-to-treat outcomes. Treatment while waiting for 
a donor is controversial, but radical antitumoral therapies seem cost-effective 
in long waiting times. Percutaneous therapies are reserved for patients with 
single non-surgical tumors. More than 60 randomized clinical trials have been 
published to assess treatments for patients with advanced tumors, but there is 
no definitive evidence of survival benefits. A recent randomized trial reported 
that chemoembolization may benefit HCC patients in terms of survival, but 
additional studies to confirm this data are recommended.

Copyright 2002 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.17.s3.40.x
PMID: 12472976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Neurology. 2002 Dec 10;59(11):1746-9. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000036609.14203.70.

Biochemical markers predicting survival in peroxisome biogenesis disorders.

Gootjes J(1), Mooijer PA, Dekker C, Barth PG, Poll-The BT, Waterham HR, Wanders 
RJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Genetic Metabolic Diseases, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To identify prognostic markers reflecting the extent of peroxisome 
dysfunction in primary skin fibroblasts from patients with peroxisome biogenesis 
disorders (PBD).
BACKGROUND: PBD are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders due to 
defects in at least 11 distinct genes. Zellweger syndrome is the prototype of 
this group of disorders, with neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum 
disease as milder variants. Common to these three disorders are liver disease, 
variable neurodevelopmental delay, retinopathy, and perceptive deafness. Because 
genotype-phenotype studies are complicated by the genetic heterogeneity among 
patients with PBD, the authors evaluated a series of biochemical markers as a 
measure of peroxisome dysfunction in skin fibroblasts.
METHODS: Multiple peroxisomal functions including de novo plasmalogen synthesis, 
dihydroxyacetonephosphate acyltransferase (DHAPAT) activity, C26:0/C22:0 ratio, 
C26:0 and pristanic acid beta-oxidation, and phytanic acid alpha-oxidation were 
analyzed in fibroblasts from a series of patients with defined clinical 
phenotypes.
RESULTS: A poor correlation with age at death was found for de novo plasmalogen 
synthesis, C26:0/C22:0 ratio, and phytanic acid alpha-oxidation. A fairly good 
correlation was found for pristanic acid beta-oxidation, but the best 
correlation was found for DHAPAT activity and C26:0 beta-oxidation. A mathematic 
combination of DHAPAT activity and C26:0 beta-oxidation showed an even better 
correlation.
CONCLUSIONS: DHAPAT activity and C26:0 beta-oxidation are the best markers in 
predicting life expectancy of patients with PBD. Combination of both markers 
gives an even better prediction. These results contribute to the management of 
patients with PBD.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000036609.14203.70
PMID: 12473763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Dis Colon Rectum. 2002 Dec;45(12):1601-7. doi: 10.1007/s10350-004-7246-1.

Improved physical performance and increased lean tissue and fat mass in patients 
with ulcerative colitis four to six years after ileoanal anastomosis with a 
J-pouch.

Jensen MB(1), Houborg KB, Vestergaard P, Kissmeyer-Nielsen P, Mosekilde L, 
Laurberg S.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Research Unit, Department of Surgery L, University Hospital of 
Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to examine the long-term changes in physical 
performance, body composition, and bone mineral density in patients with 
ulcerative colitis undergoing ileoanal anastomosis with J-pouch. Patients were 
also screened for abnormalities in blood biochemistry.
METHODS: Maximal isometric strength (sum of pinching, hand grip, arm flexion, 
and knee extension), work capacity (ergometer test at 1.5 W/kg), pulmonary 
function, body composition (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry scan), and fatigue 
level were assessed before surgery and four to six years later.
RESULTS: Of 24 patients examined preoperatively, 12 females and 8 males were 
retested. At follow-up, their mean age +/- standard deviation was 38 +/- 9 
years, weight was 76 +/- 14 kg, and height was 173 +/- 7 cm. Compared with 
preoperative assessments, muscular strength had increased 10.6 +/- 17.2 percent 
(P = 0.015), work capacity 10.4 +/- 13.3 percent (P = 0.003), total tissue mass 
4.6 +/- 5.4 kg (P = 0.001), lean tissue mass 2.3 +/- 2.2 kg (P < 0.001), fat 
mass 2.2 +/- 3.7 kg (P = 0.014), and bone mineral density 1.6 +/- 2.4 percent (P 
= 0.008). Seventeen of 20 patients had biochemical abnormalities.
CONCLUSIONS: After ileoanal anastomosis with J-pouch, muscular strength and work 
capacity improved concomitant with an increase in total tissue mass, lean tissue 
mass, fat mass, and bone mineral density. Biochemical abnormalities were common.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-004-7246-1
PMID: 12473882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Rev Mal Respir. 2002 Oct;19(5 Pt 1):569-76.

[A diagnostic strategy for isolated pulmonary nodules less than 2 cm in 
diameter].

[Article in French]

Bernard A(1), Binquet C, Lejeune C, Hagry O, Quantin C, Faivre J, Favre JP.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgie Thoracique, Hôpital Universitaire, Dijon, France. 
alain.bernard@chu-dijon.fr

Comment in
    Rev Mal Respir. 2002 Oct;19(5 Pt 1):545-8.

The object of this study is to determine the best diagnostic strategy for 
isolated pulmonary nodules less than 2 cm in diameter starting from decision 
analysis. The diagnostic pathway included strategies: 1. Observation with a 
thoracic tomodensitometry (TDM) every 3 months. 2. Percutaneous needle biopsy. 
3. Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) resection. 4. Resection by 
thoracotomy. Observation was the best strategy for non-smokers in their 40's 
with a cost of 57-69 Francs per year of life gained. Needle biopsy was the best 
strategy for a 1 cm nodule in patients of 50 years, smokers and non-smokers 
(life expectancy 29.38 and 24.44 years). The best strategy for a 2 cm nodule was 
needle biopsy in 40 year old smokers (life expectancy 34.18 years) and in 
non-smokers aged 50-60 years with a life expectancy from 20.0 to 28.2 years. 
VATS was the best strategy for a 1 cm nodule in smokers over the age of 60 for a 
2 cm nodule over the age of 50. The costs were 1 811, 3 214, 1 873, 1 811 and 6 
093 Francs respectively per year of life gained. During the sensitivity analysis 
VATS remained the best strategy provided the post-operative mortality remained 
below 2%. When the risk of malignancy is only moderate needle biopsy may be 
recommended but when the risk of malignancy is high it is preferable to advise 
VATS as the method of diagnosis.

PMID: 12473943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2002 Dec;83(12 Suppl 2):S44-50. doi: 
10.1053/apmr.2002.36955.

Quality of life: an outcomes perspective.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093, USA. rkaplan@ucsd.edu

This article compares a traditional biomedical model with an outcomes model for 
evaluating medical and rehabilitation care. The traditional model emphasizes 
diagnosis and disease-specific outcomes. In contrast, the outcomes model 
emphasizes life expectancy and health-related quality of life (QOL). Although 
the models are similar, they lead to different conclusions with regard to some 
interventions. For some conditions, diagnosis and treatment may reduce the 
impact of a particular disease without extending life expectancy or improving 
QOL. Older individuals with multiple comorbidities may not benefit from 
treatments for a particular disease if competing health problems threaten life 
or reduce QOL. Overall outcomes and benefits of treatment can be summarized by 
using measures of life expectancy that adjust for QOL. The quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) has been proposed as a comprehensive summary index. QALYs have 
gained widespread usage in many areas of medicine. The outcomes model has been 
applied widely in rehabilitation research, but few studies estimate the benefits 
of treatments using QALYs. These methodologies can also serve as a basis for 
approaches to sharing medical decisions between patients and providers. 
Opportunities to apply these new methods are discussed.

Copyright 2002 by the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine

DOI: 10.1053/apmr.2002.36955
PMID: 12474171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Rev Med Brux. 2002 Oct;23(5):417-21.

[Diagnosis and treatment of depression in the advanced stage of cancer].

[Article in French]

Ronson A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Clinique des Soins Supportifs et Palliatifs, 
Institut Jules Bordet, U.L.B.

The diagnosis of depression in patients with advanced cancer is a particularly 
complex task. The lack of diagnostic tools specifically developed for this 
patient population, the difficulty of interpreting neurovegetative symptoms of 
depression--which can result from the neoplastic disease--and the "normal and 
understandable" nature of many symptoms or signs of psychological distress are 
among the main obstacles to a clear-cut diagnosis of depression. Things go even 
more complex when it comes about to discuss whether one should treat patients 
displaying psychological distress that does not meet established criteria for 
the diagnosis of a depressive illness. When the indication to treat is finally 
acknowledged, the choice of the optimal antidepressant will depend upon a series 
of parameters including survival expectancy, tolerance profile and drug 
interactions. Though we currently lack prospective data about the efficacy and 
safety of antidepressants in depressed patients with advanced cancer, 
extrapolation of data available from other patient populations with severe 
medical conditions and clinical experience allow to draw guidelines aimed at 
helping healthcare professionals faced with those problems to improve the 
quality of life of their patients. These elements are presented and discussed in 
this paper in the light of the recent developments resulting from the growing 
interest of the medical community to the care to patients with terminal illness.

PMID: 12474322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. WHO Reg Publ Eur Ser. 2002;(97):7-64.

The health situation in the European Region. Part One.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12474561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Health Econ. 2002 Nov;21(6):993-1007. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(02)00054-1.

A lifetime portfolio of risky and risk-free sexual behaviour and the prevalence 
of AIDS.

Levy A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Wollongong, NSW, Australia. 
amnon_levy@uow.edu.au

A lifetime portfolio of risky and risk-free sexual activities is conceptually 
constructed in this paper. People's time allocation between risky and risk-free 
sexual activities affects, and is affected by, the prevalence of AIDS. A small 
satisfaction differential between risky and risk-free sex can lead to a 
significant prevalence of AIDS. Numerical simulations suggest that the reduction 
in the prevalence of AIDS generated by a 1% improvement in the sensual quality 
of freely distributed condoms can be 0.855% when the initial satisfaction 
differential between risky and risk-free sex is 50% or 0.464% when the initial 
satisfaction differential is 100%.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(02)00054-1
PMID: 12475122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Retina. 2002 Dec;22(6):698-706; quiz 852-3. doi: 
10.1097/00006982-200212000-00003.

Ring melanoma of the ciliary body: report on twenty-three patients.

Demirci H(1), Shields CL, Shields JA, Honavar SG, Eagle RC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Services, Wills Eye Hospital, 9th and Walnut Streets, Philadelphia, 
PA 19107, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ring melanoma of the ciliary body is a rare variant of uveal 
melanoma that has a poor prognosis. Only isolated cases have been reported in 
the literature.
METHODS: A retrospective review of the clinical features, management, 
histopathology, and prognosis of 23 consecutive patients with ring melanoma of 
the ciliary body was performed.
RESULTS: Of 8,800 patients with uveal melanoma treated on the Oncology Service 
at Wills Eye Hospital over a 25-year period, only 23 patients (0.3%) were found 
to have ring melanoma of the ciliary body. The mean patient age was 59 years 
(median, 63 years; range, 8-81 years). The only visual symptom was blurred 
vision in 17 patients (74%), and the other six patients (26%) were asymptomatic. 
At the initial presentation elsewhere, melanoma was recognized in 13 cases 
(57%). In the remaining 10 cases (43%), the initial clinical diagnosis was 
glaucoma in three (13%), iris nevus in three (13%), cataract in two (9%), 
ciliary body detachment in one (4%), and iridocyclitis in one (4%). The patients 
were observed elsewhere for a mean of 3 months before the diagnosis of melanoma 
was suspected and referral to Oncology Service was made. On examination, the 
tumor involved a mean of eight clock hours of the ciliary body. Seven patients 
(30%) had complete circumferential (360 degrees) involvement of the ciliary 
body, and 16 (70%) had incomplete (180-360 degrees) ring involvement. The mean 
tumor thickness was 8 mm. Associated findings included neovascularization of the 
iris in one case (4%), shallow anterior chamber in 11 (48%), anterior chamber 
