inflammation in five (22%), cataract in nine (39%), lens indentation in eight 
(35%), and lens subluxation in three (13%). A prominent episcleral (sentinel) 
vessel (17 cases, 74%), multilobulation of the mass (19 cases, 83%), blockage of 
light on transillumination (23 cases, 100%), and ultrasonographic hollowness 
with intrinsic pulsations (23 cases, 100%) were important features 
differentiating this tumor from simulating conditions. The tumor was managed 
with enucleation in all 23 patients. Histopathologic studies revealed 
epithelioid cell-type melanoma in two patients (9%), mixed cell-type in 17 
(74%), and spindle cell-type in four (17%). Extraocular extension was present in 
eight patients (35%). Metastasis developed in 12 of 23 patients (52%) after a 
mean follow-up of 55 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Ring melanoma of the ciliary body is a rare tumor that can remain 
hidden from ophthalmoscopic examination. Certain features, such as prominent 
episcleral sentinel vessels, multilobulation of the mass, light blockage on 
transillumination, and ultrasonographic hollowness with intrinsic vascular 
pulsations, suggest the diagnosis. The life prognosis is poor.

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-200212000-00003
PMID: 12476094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Sex Res. 2002 Aug;39(3):197-206. doi: 10.1080/00224490209552142.

Inconsistencies in reporting the occurence and timing of first intercourse among 
adolescents.

Upchurch DM(1), Lillard LA, Aneshensel CS, Fang Li N.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Public Health, 650 Charles Young Drive South, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1772, USA. upchurch@ucla.edu.

Two types of reporting inconsistency for sexual initiation were analyzed--event 
occurrence and its timing--using data from two waves of the National 
Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health). Overall, 11.1% of those 
who reported they were sexually active at the time of first interview denied 
this at the subsequent one. Males of each race/ethnic group had higher 
percentages of inconsistency than their female counterparts. Being older, not 
living with parents, or having a highly educated mother was negatively 
associated with rescinding. Among those reporting sexual experience at both 
interviews, only 22.2% reported the same date of first sex. On average, teens 
revised their age at first sex to older ages, and boys, especially African 
American boys, had large variability in reporting dates, as did teens with lower 
verbal ability. Seven strategies for resolving inconsistent reports are 
presented and implications for substantive findings are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/00224490209552142
PMID: 12476267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):861-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703769.

G-CSF-primed haploidentical marrow transplantation without ex vivo T cell 
depletion: an excellent alternative for high-risk leukemia.

Ji SQ(1), Chen HR, Wang HX, Yan HM, Zhu L, Liu J, Xue M, Xun CQ.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Hematology, The General Hospital of Air Force, PLA, 
Beijing, PR China.

Based on our encouraging results of G-CSF-primed HLA-matched related marrow 
transplants for high-risk leukemia, we extended the study from matched related 
to haploidentical transplants using G-CSF primed marrow and sequential 
immunosuppressants to prevent both graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and 
host-versus-graft rejection (HVGR). Fifteen high-risk leukemia patients, who 
needed urgent transplantation but lacked an HLA-matched donor, underwent 
G-CSF-primed haploidentical marrow transplantation without ex vivo T cell 
depletion. Donors were given G-CSF (Lenograstim) at 3-4 microg/kg/day for 7 days 
prior to marrow harvest. GVHD and HVGR prophylaxis were combined in the 
sequential usage of cyclosporin A, methotrexate, anti-thymocyte globulin and 
mycophenolate mofetil. All patients established sustained trilineage engraftment 
at a median of 19 days and 21 days for neutrophil and platelets respectively. 
G-CSF priming significantly increased CD34(+) and CFU-GM cells, reduced total 
lymphocytes and reversed the CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio in the donor marrow. The 
incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD was 33.3%. Nine patients survived more than 
a year with a Karnofsky performance status of 100%. Estimated overall 
disease-free survival at 2 years was 60 +/- 7%. In conclusion, using G-CSF 
priming marrow grafts along with sequential immunosuppressants provided an 
excellent alternative for the treatment of high-risk hematological malignancy in 
patients who lack matched donors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703769
PMID: 12476277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):873-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703715.

Transplantation as salvage therapy for high-risk patients with myeloma in 
relapse.

Lee CK(1), Barlogie B, Zangari M, Fassas A, Anaissie E, Morris C, Van Rhee F, 
Cottler-Fox M, Thertulien R, Muwalla F, Mazher S, Badros A, Tricot G.

Author information:
(1)The Myeloma Institute for Research and Therapy, The University of Arkansas 
for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.

Patients with myeloma relapsing after tandem transplant have a poor survival and 
treatment options are limited. The role of additional salvage transplant 
procedures for these patients is unknown. To evaluate the benefit and identify 
prognostic factors, the outcome of 76 consecutive patients with recurrent 
myeloma after tandem transplant receiving salvage transplants (ST) was analyzed. 
Prior to ST, 23 patients (30%) had shown chemosensitive response to preceding 
salvage chemotherapy: two complete remissions (CR); eight near CRs (nCR: only 
immunofixation positive); 13 partial remissions (PR >or=75% reduction in M 
protein). Fifty received an autologous transplant, 22 a sibling-matched 
allogeneic transplant, and four a matched-unrelated allogeneic transplant. 
Overall response after ST was 59%: eight CRs (11%); 14 nCRs (18%); 23 PRs (30%). 
Overall survival (OS) at 2 years was 19%; 2 year event-free survival rate (EFS) 
7%. On univariate analysis for survival, only pre-transplant chemosensitive 
relapse (P < 0.05), serum albumin >3 g/dl (P = 0.001), normal LDH (P = 0.04), 
and long interval between the second transplant and relapse/progression were 
significant beneficial factors. In a Cox proportional hazard model, 
chemosensitive relapse, and albumin >3 g/dl were significant for better OS: 
hazard ratio (HR) 1.4, 1.7, respectively, while normal LDH, and absence of CA13 
were significant for better EFS: HR 1.8, 1.7, respectively. Patients with 
albumin >3 g/dl who had chemosensitive disease before ST (n = 16) had a median 
survival of 16 months, compared to 7 months (n = 34) and 2 months (n = 26) for 
patients with only one (n = 34) or no favorable prognostic factors (n = 28), 
respectively (P < 0.001). Their survival at 2 years post-ST was 43%, 17% and 
11%, respectively. Our study suggests further transplantation should only be 
considered in the setting of a clinical trial in patients with favorable 
prognostic factors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703715
PMID: 12476279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):879-84. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703762.

Intensive sequential dose dense chemotherapy with stem cell support as 
first-line treatment in advanced ovarian carcinoma: a phase II study.

Viret F(1), Bertucci F, Genre D, Gravis G, Chabannon C, Conte M, Houvenaeghel G, 
Maraninchi D, Viens P.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France.

From August 1995 to December 1997, 15 patients with stage III-IV ovarian cancer 
were treated with outpatient intensive chemotherapy with G-CSF and stem cell 
support. The first cycle consisted of cyclophophamide IV 6 g/m(2); second, 
third, fourth and fifth paclitaxel 250 mg/m(2) and the sixth and seventh 
carboplatin AUC 18. CD34(+) cells were collected after the first cycle and 
reinfused after completion of cycles 6 and 7. Fourteen patients had stage IIIc 
and one patient had stage IV disease with liver metastases. All patients 
underwent laparotomy to maximize tumor debulking. This was optimal in eight 
patients and suboptimal in seven patients. Second-look surgery was performed in 
14 patients. All patients had macroscopic complete responses and 10 patients had 
complete histologic response. Median follow-up was 48 months (range, 20 to 62). 
Twelve patients had further progression at a median of 27 months (range, 9 to 
42) and nine are alive, three without evidence of disease progression. This 
pilot study shows that dose-dense chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin 
is associated with low toxicity and may improve the outcome of patients with 
poor prognosis ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703762
PMID: 12476280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):885-91. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703772.

'Relative' chemotherapy sensitivity: the impact of number of salvage regimens 
prior to autologous stem cell transplant for relapsed and refractory aggressive 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Chen CI(1), Roitman D, Tsang R, Stewart AK, Keating A, Crump M.

Author information:
(1)The University of Toronto Autologous Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, 
Princess Margaret Hospital, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.

The purpose of the study was to assess the impact of number of salvage regimens 
needed to demonstrate chemotherapy sensitivity on relapse rates, survival, and 
toxicity following high-dose therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation 
(ABMT) in relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We retrospectively 
reviewed 136 patients with intermediate-grade lymphoma who underwent ABMT. All 
patients were treated with salvage therapy to maximum tumor reduction. Three 
quarters (102/136) of the patients received one salvage regimen, while 31 (23%) 
patients received two or more regimens. When compared to patients requiring >or= 
two regimens, patients requiring only one salvage regimen to demonstrate 
chemosensitivity were more likely to have a longer previous CR from initial 
therapy (CR >or=12 months in 47% vs 26%; P = 0.04) and to have attained CR with 
salvage (54% vs 16%; P = 0.001). Both median relapse-free survival (RFS) and 
overall survival (OS) have not yet been reached in patients receiving one 
salvage regimen (median follow-up 50.6 months). This is superior to the median 
RFS of 9.1 months (P = 0.004) and OS of 11.1 months in patients requiring 
>or=two regimens to demonstrate chemosensitivity (P = 0.002). Time to 
engraftment, toxic deaths and incidence of myelodysplasia were similar in the 
groups. The survival rate observed in patients requiring >or=two salvage 
regimens, although inferior to that of patients receiving a single salvage 
regimen, are still generally superior to results in the literature for patients 
treated with chemotherapy alone without ABMT. We conclude that high-dose therapy 
with ABMT is appropriate for lymphoma patients even when disease reduction 
requires repeated numbers of salvage regimens.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703772
PMID: 12476281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):893-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703771.

High-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue in children with 
nephroblastoma.

Kremens B(1), Gruhn B, Klingebiel T, Hasan C, Laws HJ, Koscielniak E, Hero B, 
Selle B, Niemeyer C, Finckenstein FG, Schulz A, Wawer A, Zintl F, Graf N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, University of Essen, Germany.

Children with Wilms tumor who have a particular risk of failure at relapse or at 
primary diagnosis were treated with high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous 
peripheral blood stem cell rescue in order to improve their probability of 
survival. From April 1992 to December 1998, 23 evaluable patients received HDC 
within the German Cooperative Wilms Tumor Studies. Nineteen were given 
melphalan, etoposide and carboplatin (MEC); the others received different 
regimens. The dose of carboplatin was adjusted according to renal function. 
Indications for HDC were high-risk relapse in 20 patients, bone metastases in 
two patients and no response in one patient. Fourteen of 23 patients are alive 
after a median observation time of 41 months, 11 of 14 in continuous complete 
remission, three in CR after relapse post HDC. The estimated survival and 
event-free survival for these patients are 60.9% and 48.2%. Twelve children 
relapsed after HDC; nine of them died within 12 months and three are surviving 
from 20 to 33 months after relapse. The main toxicities were hematologic, 
mucositis and renal (tubular dysfunction; intermittent hemodialysis in one 
patient). There were no toxic deaths. About half of the children suffering from 
Wilms tumor with very unfavorable prognostic factors survive disease-free after 
HDC for over 3 years. Besides hematological toxicity, mucositis and infections, 
renal function is at risk during HDC. With dose adjustment on glomerular 
filtration rate, however, no permanent renal failure was observed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703771
PMID: 12476282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2002 Dec;30(12):945-51. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703770.

Randomized clinical trial of ganciclovir vs acyclovir for prevention of 
cytomegalovirus antigenemia after allogeneic transplantation.

Burns LJ(1), Miller W, Kandaswamy C, DeFor TE, MacMillan ML, Van Burik JA, 
Weisdorf DJ.

Author information:
(1)Blood and Marrow Transplant Program, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
55455, USA.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease remains a major cause of morbidity following 
allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). In a prospective randomized trial, 
we tested prophylactic therapy with ganciclovir or acyclovir for patients at 
high risk of disease. Ninety-one CMV seropositive recipients of related (n = 53) 
and unrelated (n = 38) donor transplants were enrolled. All patients received 
intravenous (i.v.) ganciclovir 5 mg/kg every 12 h days -7 to -2, followed by 
acyclovir 10 mg/kg i.v. every 8 h from day -1 until neutrophil engraftment. 
Patients were then randomly assigned to either ganciclovir (n = 45) or acyclovir 
(n = 46) until day 100 post transplant. Any degree of antigenemia was treated 
with ganciclovir 5 mg/kg i.v. twice a day for 2 weeks, followed by 5 mg/kg i.v. 
each weekday for 6 weeks. At day 100, the cumulative incidence of antigenemia 
was 31% (95% CI 17-45%) for ganciclovir and 41% (95% CI 26-56%) (P = 0.22) for 
acyclovir prophylaxis, respectively. The assigned prophylaxis cohort did not 
predict for CMV antigenemia. The cumulative incidence of CMV disease at 12 
months was 13% (95% CI 3-23%) and 17% (95% CI 6-28%) (P = 0.59) for the 
ganciclovir- and acyclovir-treated groups, respectively. An absolute neutrophil 
count (ANC) <or=1500 x 10(6)/l at randomization (P < 0.01) and grade II-IV acute 
graft-versus-host-disease (P = 0.01), but not the assigned prophylaxis cohort (P 
= 0.62), were independent risk factors for CMV disease. The incidence of fungal 
infections and renal insufficiency was similar across treatment groups; however, 
bacterial infections and secondary neutropenia occurred more frequently in the 
ganciclovir group. With our study powered to detect a 60% reduction in 
antigenemia with ganciclovir prophylaxis, we did not find a statistically 
significant difference between ganciclovir and acyclovir when used as part of an 
overall strategy for prevention of CMV antigenemia and disease in SCT, although 
fewer side-effects occurred with acyclovir treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703770
PMID: 12476289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 2002 Jun;12(2):175-213. doi: 10.1353/ken.2002.0012.

The ethics of human stem cell research.

Outka G(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University, USA.

The medical and clinical promise of stem cell research is widely heralded, but 
moral judgments about it collide. This article takes general stock of such 
judgments and offers one specific resolution. It canvasses a spectrum of value 
judgments on sources, complicity, adult stem cells, and public and private 
contexts. It then examines how debates about abortion and stem cell research 
converge and diverge. Finally, it proposes to extend the principle of "nothing 
is lost" to current debates. This extension links historical discussions of the 
ethics of direct killing with unprecedented possibilities that in vitro 
fertilization procedures yield. A definite normative region to inhabit is 
located, within a larger range of rival value judgments. The creation of embryos 
for research purposes only should be resisted, yet research on "excess' embryos 
is permissible by virtue of an appeal to the "nothing is lost" principle.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.2002.0012
PMID: 12476917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Respir Med. 2002 Dec;96(12):963-75. doi: 10.1053/rmed.2002.1392.

Assessing the burden of respiratory disease in the UK.

Chung F(1), Barnes N, Allen M, Angus R, Corris P, Knox A, Miles J, Morice A, 
O'Reilly J, Richardson M.

Author information:
(1)Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust, London, U.K. f.chung@ic.ac.uk

This review explores the health and social burden of some of the main 
respiratory diseases (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cryptogenic 
fibrosing alveolitis, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer, mesothelioma, obstructive 
sleep apnoea and tuberculosis) in order to increase awareness of these diseases 
and highlight areas where improvements in care are required. The overall impact 
of respiratory diseases in the U.K. in terms of prevalence, mortality, morbidity 
and economic costs, with particular reference to secondary care has been 
considered and comparisons made with the rest of Europe where data are 
available. Respiratory diseases are responsible for a significant proportion of 
serious morbidity and premature death among the population of the U.K. and they 
will continue to present a growing challenge; special support is needed to 
tackle this burden.

DOI: 10.1053/rmed.2002.1392
PMID: 12477209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Rev Gastroenterol Disord. 2002;2 Suppl 2:S16-24.

Reduction of colorectal cancer risk in patients with Crohn's disease.

Lichtenstein GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-either Crohn's disease (CD) or 
ulcerative colitis (UC)-are at increased risk for developing cancers of the 
gastrointestinal tract, particularly colorectal cancer (CRC). Because of the 
relative rarity of IBD in the general population, it has been difficult to 
quantify this risk; nonetheless, within particular subsets of IBD patients, the 
cumulative risk of developing dysplasia and CRC may be substantial. Efforts to 
reduce this risk have included both prophylactic surgery and endoscopic 
screening programs. Despite the impact this disease has on quality of life and 
life expectancy, an optimal strategy for reducing the risk has yet to be 
defined. This article reviews the current literature relating to the risk of 
cancer for patients with IBD and methods available to help reduce this risk.

PMID: 12478240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2002 Oct;3(10):1027-33.

[Safety and effectiveness of dual chamber pacing in patients over 80 years of 
age with previous episodes of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation].

[Article in Italian]

Hrovatin E(1), Zardo F, Brieda M, Dametto E, Sparacino L, Antonini-Canterin F, 
Burelli C, Huang G, Nicolosi GL.

Author information:
(1)U.O. di Cardiologia-ARC Dipartimento di Emergenza Azienda Ospedaliera S. 
Maria degli Angeli Via Montereale, 24 33170 Pordenone. e.hrovatin@tin.it

BACKGROUND: Dual chamber pacing (DDD) in the elderly is still a controversial 
issue because of its short life expectancy and the risk of atrial fibrillation. 
The aim of the study was 1) to evaluate the cumulative survival and the events 
capable of modifying it, 2) to evaluate the stability of sinus rhythm, and 3) to 
try to identify patients who are at a higher risk of developing permanent atrial 
fibrillation after DDD implantation. We evaluated clinical, electrophysiological 
and pacing parameters at the time of implantation.
METHODS: We examined retrospectively a group of 135 consecutive patients who 
were > 80 years old and who were treated with DDD in the last decade.
RESULTS: At the time of evaluation (mean 33.51 +/- 27.10 months, range 4-148 
months) after DDD implantation, 72% of patients were still alive. Sinus rhythm 
was documented in 96 (71%) patients (group A). Thirty-nine (29%) patients (group 
B) developed atrial fibrillation after a mean period of 28.56 +/- 30.9 months 
(range 1-125 months). The right atrial endocavitary signal amplitude was lower 
in group B compared to that observed in group A (2.6 +/- 1.16 vs 3.27 +/- 1.91 
mV). The pacing and sensing atrioventricular delay were not statistically 
different in both groups. The minimum heart rate was higher in patients who 
developed atrial fibrillation (64.53 +/- 7.7 vs 67.7 +/- 5.72 b/min respectively 
in group A and in group B, p = 0.02). Group B patients had a higher rate of 
atrial fibrillation pre-implantation episodes. The incidences of sick sinus 
disease and of atrioventricular nodal disease were similar in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In elderly patients the benefits of DDD are maintained for a long 
period of time before the development of atrial fibrillation. Episodes of atrial 
fibrillation prior to DDD, apart from sinus dysfunction alone, are predictive of 
the development of a permanent atrial fibrillation. Permanent atrial 
fibrillation does not seem to reduce life expectancy. A higher minimum heart 
rate does not seem to prevent atrial fibrillation. The capability of recording a 
right atrial signal amplitude > 3 mV seems to identify those patients with a 
lower risk of developing atrial fibrillation.

PMID: 12478829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2002 Dec 1;221(11):1597-600. doi: 
10.2460/javma.2002.221.1597.

Surgery alone or in combination with radiation therapy for treatment of 
intracranial meningiomas in dogs: 31 cases (1989-2002).

Axlund TW(1), McGlasson ML, Smith AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare, for dogs with intracranial meningiomas, survival times 
for dogs treated with surgical resection followed by radiation therapy with 
survival times for dogs treated with surgery alone.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
ANIMALS: 31 dogs with intracranial meningiomas.
PROCEDURE: Medical records of dogs with histologic confirmation of an 
intracranial meningioma were reviewed. For each dog, signalment, clinical signs, 
tumor location, treatment protocol, and survival time were obtained from the 
medical record and through follow-up telephone interviews.
RESULTS: Dogs that underwent tumor resection alone and survived > 1 week after 
surgery had a median survival time of 7 months (range, 0.5 to 22 months). Dogs 
that underwent tumor resection followed by radiation therapy had a median 
survival time of 16.5 months (range, 3 to 58 months).
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results suggest that in dogs with 
intracranial meningiomas, use of radiation therapy as a supplement to tumor 
resection can significantly extend life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2460/javma.2002.221.1597
PMID: 12479332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Lancet. 2002 Nov 30;360(9347):1767-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)11668-0.

Dopamine agonist monotherapy in Parkinson's disease.

Clarke CE(1), Guttman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
c.e.clarke@bham.ac.uk

CONTEXT: Levodopa is the gold-standard therapy for Parkinson's disease. However, 
long-term treatment leads to involuntary movements and response fluctuations 
which add to the complexities of later disease-management. In addition, 
preclinical evidence suggests that levodopa is toxic to dopaminergic neurons. 
These problems have led to a move away from levodopa towards initial monotherapy 
with a dopamine agonist.
STARTING POINT: Positron-emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission 
computed tomography (SPECT) tracers have been developed which may be considered 
surrogate markers for remaining dopaminergic neurons. In a randomised controlled 
trial in patients with early Parkinson's disease, the Parkinson Study Group used 
123I-beta-CIT SPECT (JAMA 2002; 287: 1653-61). Those patients given pramipexole 
had significantly reduced loss of striatal uptake at 46 months compared with 
those given levodopa (16.0% vs 25.5%). In a similar trial, Alan Whone and 
colleagues used 18F-DOPA PET (Neurology 2002; 58 [suppl 3]: A82-83). Patients 
given ropinirole had significantly reduced loss of striatal uptake at 24 months 
compared with those given levodopa (13% vs 20%). These studies suggest that 
agonist monotherapy may be neuroprotective and/or that levodopa is toxic. This 
work has been criticised as the SPECT results may have resulted from a 
differential effect of the agonist and levodopa on the regulation of the 
dopamine transporter, thereby influencing the imaging outcome measure. Other 
criticisms include insufficient data on the use of the potential neuroprotectant 
selegiline and patients on pramipexole in the SPECT study appear to have been 
clinically slow progressors. Single clinical trials with each of the four modern 
agonists compared with levodopa show that as monotherapy the agonists delay the 
onset of involuntary movements, although at the expense of poorer treatment of 
motor impairments and disability and more dopaminergic adverse events. The only 
health-related quality of life data show no difference between pramipexole and 
levodopa after 4 years. No information on health-economics measures is available 
but agonists cost two to three times as much as levodopa. WHERE NEXT? Young 
patients should be treated with agonist monotherapy since the trials included 
predominantly younger patients who have a higher incidence of motor 
complications. Those with significant co-morbidity, dementia, or a short 
life-expectancy should be treated with the lowest dose of levodopa required to 
maintain motor function. For the vast majority though, no clear guidance can be 
given. Further large-scale pragmatic trials in large numbers of patients over 
prolonged periods are urgently required.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(02)11668-0
PMID: 12480442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. J Biol Chem. 2003 Feb 21;278(8):6136-44. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M208763200. Epub
2002  Dec 11.

Structural and functional characteristics of two sodium-coupled dicarboxylate 
transporters (ceNaDC1 and ceNaDC2) from Caenorhabditis elegans and their 
relevance to life span.

Fei YJ(1), Inoue K, Ganapathy V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta, Georgia 30912, USA. yjfei@mail.mcg.edu

We have cloned and functionally characterized two Na(+)-coupled dicarboxylate 
transporters, namely ceNaDC1 and ceNaDC2, from Caenorhabditis elegans. These two 
transporters show significant sequence homology with the product of the Indy 
gene identified in Drosophila melanogaster and with the Na(+)-coupled 
dicarboxylate transporters NaDC1 and NaDC3 identified in mammals. In a mammalian 
cell heterologous expression system, the cloned ceNaDC1 and ceNaDC2 mediate 
Na(+)-coupled transport of various dicarboxylates. With succinate as the 
substrate, ceNaDC1 exhibits much lower affinity compared with ceNaDC2. Thus, 
ceNaDC1 and ceNaDC2 correspond at the functional level to the mammalian NaDC1 
and NaDC3, respectively. The nadc1 and nadc2 genes are not expressed at the 
embryonic stage, but the expression is detectable all through the early larva 
stage to the adult stage. Tissue-specific expression pattern studies using a 
reporter gene fusion approach in transgenic C. elegans show that both genes are 
coexpressed in the intestinal tract, an organ responsible for not only the 
digestion and absorption of nutrients but also for the storage of energy in this 
organism. Independent knockdown of the function of these two transporters in C. 
elegans using the strategy of RNA interference suggests that NaDC1 is not 
associated with the regulation of average life span in this organism, whereas 
the knockdown of NaDC2 function leads to a significant increase in the average 
life span. Disruption of the function of the high affinity Na(+)-coupled 
dicarboxylate transporter NaDC2 in C. elegans may lead to decreased availability 
of dicarboxylates for cellular production of metabolic energy, thus creating a 
biological state similar to that of caloric restriction, and consequently 
leading to life span extension.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M208763200
PMID: 12480943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Am J Nephrol. 2003 Mar-Apr;23(2):71-7. doi: 10.1159/000068040.

Renal replacement in end-stage renal disease patients over 75 years old.

Létourneau I(1), Ouimet D, Dumont M, Pichette V, Leblanc M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, 5415 de 
l'Assomption, Montreal, P. Quebec, H1T 2M4, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Over the last decade, the age of dialysis patients has been 
increasing steadily in several units in Canada. Our main objective was to assess 
prevalence, co-morbidity and outcome of ESRD patients over 75 years old at the 
beginning of dialysis treatment in our center. As a group, they were compared to 
younger dialysis patients treated simultaneously.
METHODS: In the last 5 years, all cases beginning dialysis in our institution 
who were above 75 years of age were reviewed, as well as cases aged between 50 
and 60 years who started dialysis during the same period. Between January 1996 
and December 2000, among a total of 429 new chronic dialysis patients, 67 ESRD 
patients over 75 years (15.6%) and 66 patients between 50 and 60 years (15.4%) 
began dialysis treatment. RESULTS--PRIMARY AND SECONDARY: Diabetes was present 
in 37% of elderly and in 56% of the younger patients. Younger patients had been 
referred earlier to our nephrologists than the older ones (42 vs. 27%). Elderly 
were more frequently treated by hemodialysis than peritoneal dialysis (81 vs. 
19%) when compared to their younger counterparts (65 vs. 35%). Long-term 
catheters for hemodialysis were used more often in elderly patients. No renal 
transplantation were performed in older patients while 7 younger patients 
received a renal graft. Survival rates after 1 and 3 years were, respectively, 
93 and 74% for patients between 50 and 60 years, whereas it decreased to 80 and 
45% for those over 75 years (p = 0.002). More than 50% of patients older than 75 
years died within 2 years after starting dialysis; their mean survival was 31 
months; patients starting dialysis between 50 and 60 years survived on the 
average 44 months during the study period. According to the multivariate 
logistic regression model, risk factors for increased mortality in the older 
group were: number of hospitalization days during the past 3 months (OR 34.8, 
95% CI 8.3-145.7, p < 0.001) and lower weight (OR 16.6, 95% CI 2.0-139.0, p = 
0.001).
CONCLUSION: We may conclude that, in our hands, life expectancy of patients who 
began dialysis above 75 years is significantly shorter than for patients for 
whom dialysis is initiated between age 50 and 60 years, especially if they have 
a low weight, lose weight and/or require hospitalization.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000068040
PMID: 12481144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(11):900-5. Epub 2002 Dec 3.

Emergency medical care in developing countries: is it worthwhile?

Razzak JA(1), Kellermann AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06512, USA. junaid.Razzak@yale.edu

Prevention is a core value of any health system. Nonetheless, many health 
problems will continue to occur despite preventive services. A significant 
burden of diseases in developing countries is caused by time-sensitive illnesses 
and injuries, such as severe infections, hypoxia caused by respiratory 
infections, dehydration caused by diarrhoea, intentional and unintentional 
injuries, postpartum bleeding, and acute myocardial infarction. The provision of 
timely treatment during life-threatening emergencies is not a priority for many 
health systems in developing countries. This paper reviews evidence indicating 
the need to develop and/or strengthen emergency medical care systems in these 
countries. An argument is made for the role of emergency medical care in 
improving the health of populations and meeting expectations for access to 
emergency care. We consider emergency medical care in the community, during 
transportation, and at first-contact and regional referral facilities. Obstacles 
to developing effective emergency medical care include a lack of structural 
models, inappropriate training foci, concerns about cost, and sustainability in 
the face of a high demand for services. A basic but effective level of emergency 
medical care responds to perceived and actual community needs and improves the 
health of populations.

PMCID: PMC2567674
PMID: 12481213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. An Med Interna. 2002 Oct;19(10):515-20.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of Ramipril treatment of patients at high-risk of 
cardiovascular events in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Hart WM(1), Rubio-Terrés C, Margalet Fernández I, González Juanatey JR.

Author information:
(1)EcoStat Consulting Group, San Sebastián.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: The cost-effectiveness of adding ramipril to the 
regular treatment of patients at high risk of suffering cardiovascular events 
was calculated.
METHODS: A retrospective pharmacoeconomic model was used. The clinical data were 
obtained from a randomized clinical trial of 9,297 patients (the HOPE study). 
Information about resource use and the associated costs was obtained from 
Spanish sources. The analysis was undertaken from the perspective of the 
National Health System, focusing on drug costs and the primary and secondary 
complications of cardiovascular events.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per life-year gained in the base case was 10,329 
euros (6% discount rate). A sensitivity analysis showed that the results were 
more sensitive to changes in estimated post-trial life expectancy than to any 
other variable. The estimated number of cases of myocardial infarction, stroke, 
or cardiovascular death prevented in five years ranged from 19,000 to 39,000.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of Ramipril to the conventional treatment of patients 
at high cardiovascular risk is cost-effective and less expensive per life-year 
gained than several treatments currently financed by the Spanish National Health 
System.

PMID: 12481494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Mol Cell Biol. 2003 Jan;23(1):389-401. doi: 10.1128/MCB.23.1.389-401.2003.

Control of the replicative life span of human fibroblasts by p16 and the 
polycomb protein Bmi-1.

Itahana K(1), Zou Y, Itahana Y, Martinez JL, Beausejour C, Jacobs JJ, Van 
Lohuizen M, Band V, Campisi J, Dimri GP.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, California 
94720, USA.

The polycomb protein Bmi-1 represses the INK4a locus, which encodes the tumor 
suppressors p16 and p14(ARF). Here we report that Bmi-1 is downregulated when 
WI-38 human fibroblasts undergo replicative senescence, but not quiescence, and 
extends replicative life span when overexpressed. Life span extension by Bmi-1 
required the pRb, but not p53, tumor suppressor protein. Deletion analysis 
showed that the RING finger and helix-turn-helix domains of Bmi-1 were required 
for life span extension and suppression of p16. Furthermore, a RING finger 
deletion mutant exhibited dominant negative activity, inducing p16 and premature 
senescence. Interestingly, presenescent cultures of some, but not all, human 
fibroblasts contained growth-arrested cells expressing high levels of p16 and 
apparently arrested by a p53- and telomere-independent mechanism. Bmi-1 
selectively extended the life span of these cultures. Low O(2) concentrations 
had no effect on p16 levels or life span extension by Bmi-1 but reduced 
expression of the p53 target, p21. We propose that some human fibroblast strains 
are more sensitive to stress-induced senescence and have both p16-dependent and 
p53/telomere-dependent pathways of senescence. Our data suggest that Bmi-1 
extends the replicative life span of human fibroblasts by suppressing the 
p16-dependent senescence pathway.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.23.1.389-401.2003
PMCID: PMC140680
PMID: 12482990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2002 Dec;240(12):1033-5. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-002-0573-9. Epub 2002 Nov 9.

Severe ocular and orbital toxicity after intracarotid injection of carboplatin 
for recurrent glioblastomas.

Watanabe W(1), Kuwabara R, Nakahara T, Hamasaki O, Sakamoto I, Okada K, Minamoto 
A, Mishima HK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mazda Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma is a malignant tumor that occurs in the cerebrum during 
adulthood. With current treatment regimens including combined surgery, radiation 
and chemotherapy, the average life expectancy of the patients is limited to 
approximately 1 year. Therefore, patients with glioblastoma sometimes have 
intracarotid injection of carcinostatics added to the treatment regimen. 
Generally, carboplatin is said to have milder side effects than cisplatin, whose 
ocular and orbital toxicity are well known. However, we experienced a case of 
severe ocular and orbital toxicity after intracarotid injection of carboplatin, 
which is infrequently reported.
CASE: A 58-year-old man received an intracarotid injection of carboplatin for 
recurrent glioblastomas in his left temporal lobe. He complained of pain and 
visual disturbance in the ipsilateral eye 30 h after the injection. Various 
ocular symptoms and findings caused by carboplatin toxicity were seen.
RESULTS: He was treated with intravenous administration of corticosteroids and 
glycerin for 6 days after the injection. Although the intraocular pressure 
elevation caused by secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma decreased and ocular 
pain diminished, inexorable papilledema and exudative retinal detachment 
continued for 3 weeks. Finally, 6 weeks later, diffuse chorioretinal atrophy 
with optic atrophy occurred and the vision in his left eye was lost.
CONCLUSION: When performing intracarotid injection of carboplatin, we must be 
aware of its potentially blinding ocular toxicity. It is recommended that 
further studies and investigations are undertaken in the effort to minimize such 
severe side effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-002-0573-9
PMID: 12483326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Health Econ. 2003 Jan;12(1):17-31. doi: 10.1002/hec.697.

A utility-theoretic model for QALYs and willingness to pay.

Klose T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Germany. 
thomas.klose@gsk.com

Despite the widespread use of quality-adjusted life years (QALY) in economic 
evaluation studies, their utility-theoretic foundation remains unclear. A model 
for preferences over health, money, and time is presented in this paper. Under 
the usual assumptions of the original QALY-model, an additive separable 
presentation of the utilities in different periods exists. In contrast to the 
usual assumption that QALY-weights do solely depend on aspects of health-related 
quality of life, wealth-standardized QALY-weights might vary with the wealth 
level in the presented extension of the original QALY-model resulting in an 
inconsistent measurement of QALYs. Further assumptions are presented to make the 
measurement of QALYs consistent with lifetime preferences over health and money. 
Even under these strict assumptions, QALYs and WTP (which also can be defined in 
this utility-theoretic model) are not equivalent preference-based measures of 
the effects of health technologies on an individual level. The results suggest 
that the individual WTP per QALY can depend on the magnitude of the QALY-gain as 
well as on the disease burden, when health influences the marginal utility of 
wealth. Further research seems to be indicated on this structural aspect of 
preferences over health and wealth and to quantify its impact.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.697
PMID: 12483758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Rep Med Guidel Outcomes Res. 2002 May 3;13(9):1-2, 5.

Diabetics fare well in surgery, study says.

Levenson D.

PMID: 12484376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(1):49-60. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200321010-00004.

Potential costs and effects of the National Service Framework for Coronary Heart 
Disease in the UK.

Vella V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Italian Cooperation, Pietermaritzburg, Republic of 
South Africa. Thevellas@yahoo.it

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the costs and effect of implementing the National Service 
Framework for Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) in the UK.
DESIGN: Decision trees were built on the results from randomised controlled 
trials on improving coronary revascularisation. All costs were presented in UK 
pounds (1997 values).
PATIENTS: Each year 6600 new patients with CHD are expected to require 
revascularisation in the UK.
INTERVENTIONS: The new patients would be equally divided into those undergoing 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and those undergoing a percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) i.e., percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PCTA). 
PTCA could be administered with or without abciximab (a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa 
receptor antagonist), stent, or stent plus abciximab (stent+).
RESULTS: CABG/stent alone has an incremental cost of more than 115,489 pounds 
per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared with CABG/ 
PTCA+. This high incremental cost is not attractive because if CABG/ stent would 
be added to abciximab (CABG/stent+) its incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
would be 2529 pounds per extra QALY compared with CABG/stent. Therefore, the 
debate should not be limited to the issue of stents but it should focus on the 
need for administering abciximab in addition to stent. The 5-year direct costs 
of implementing such a strategy in the UK is expected to be 50.6 million pounds 
(1997 values).
CONCLUSIONS: Abciximab and probably any glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor 
antagonists should be added to any PCI, especially if stents are used.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321010-00004
PMID: 12484803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2002 Dec;227(11):939-42. doi: 
10.1177/153537020222701101.

Aging: predictions of a new perspective on old data.

Ely JT(1), Krone CA.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Studies, Box 351310, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA. ely@u.washington.edu

Erratum in
    Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2003 Mar;10(3):232.

DOI: 10.1177/153537020222701101
PMID: 12486203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Nutr Health Aging. 2002;6(4):269-74.

Gender, cohort and geographical differences in 10-year mortality in elderly 
people living in 12 European towns.

Amorim-Cruz JA(1), Haveman-Nies A, Schlettwein-Gsell D, De Henauw S.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Research Centre, National Institute of Health, 1649-016, Lisbon, 
Portugal. amorim.cruz@insa.min-saude.pt

Comment in
    J Nutr Health Aging. 2004;8(2):115.

BACKGROUND: In 1988/89, 2586 randomly selected elderly of both sexes born 
between 1913 and 1918 and living in 19 centres of 12 European countries 
participated in the SENECA Study on Nutrition and the Elderly in Europe. 
Differences in nutritional and health status as well in lifestyle factors, 
namely dietary habits, between the elderly living in the several centres were 
observed.
OBJECTIVE: To study gender, cohort and geographical differences in 10-year 
mortality in elderly people from the SENECA Study.
DESIGN: Longitudinal study. Information on vital status of the elderly people 
who participated in the baseline study performed in 1988/89 was obtained by 
standardized procedures in 1999, until 30 April.
RESULTS: In all centres, men had higher mortality rates than women. A cohort 
effect in mortality is observed, particularly in men. A geographical pattern in 
mortality also more evident in men is shown. In fact, elderly men living in 
Eastern Europe, represented by the Polish centre, had the highest average hazard 
rate, 108, while those living in Southern Europe, including the French, the 
Swiss, the Italian, the Spanish and the Portuguese centres, had the lowest 
average hazard rates, ranging from 52 in Betanzos/Spain to 67 in the two French 
towns. Finally, those living in Northern Europe, represented by the Danish, the 
Dutch and the Belgian centres had intermediate values, from 68 in Roskilde/ 
Denmark to 85 in Culemborg/the Netherlands. Kaplan-Meier survival curves 
confirmed the gender, cohort and geographical differences in survival (log-rank 
test P 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: The gender and geographical differences in mortality observed in 
elderly people living in different regions of Europe put in evidence the 
potential for increasing the life expectancy in Europe through intervention 
programs tackling the lifestyle and socio-economic factors behind those 
differences.

PMID: 12486447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Laryngorhinootologie. 2002 Dec;81(12):887-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-36102.

[Fibrolipoma of the larynx].

[Article in German]

Grützenmacher S(1), Lang C, Junghans D, Mlynski G.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für HNO-Heilkunde der Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität 
Greifswald.

Benign mesenchymal tumors of the upper aerodigestive tract are very rare. In 
this localisation some tumors cause life-threatening upper airway obstruction. 
We report on a 42-year old man who complained dysphagia and globus sensation. 
The physical examination revealed a smooth tumor of the left aryepiglottic fold. 
A magnet resonance imaging (MRI) leaded to the suspicion of a laryngocele with 
extension in the left aryepiglottic fold. The therapeutical procedure included 
the microlaryngoscopical extirpation of the tumor with laser surgery. The 
histology showed a fibrolipoma of the larynx. Because of frequent recurrences 
even after an extended period of time long term follow-up is necessary.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-36102
PMID: 12486627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. DNA Seq. 2002 Aug;13(4):221-3. doi: 10.1080/1042517021000021617.

Cloning and sequencing of the canine neutrophil elastase cDNA.

Katen LJ(1), Aprikyan AG, Dale DC, Osborne WR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, HSB RR244 Box 
356320, University of Washington School of Medicine, 1959 NE Pacific St, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA. lkaten2@u.washington.edu

Human cyclic neutropenia, also referred to as cyclic hematopoiesis, is a rare 
disease characterized by periodic fluctuations in blood cell production by the 
bone marrow and a corresponding recurrent severe neutropenia every 19-21 days. 
This results in bacterial infections and shortened life expectancy. Platelets, 
monocytes, lymphocytes, and reticulocytes cycle with the same periodicity. It 
has been determined that the neutrophil elastase (NE) gene is mutated in all 
cases of human cyclic hematopoiesis. Currently, the only animal model for this 
disease is the grey collie dog, in which there is a strikingly similar periodic 
neutropenia every 12-14 days. Towards the validation of this animal model, we 
have cloned and sequenced the canine NE cDNA from a normal dog.

DOI: 10.1080/1042517021000021617
PMID: 12487025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Ann Oncol. 2003 Jan;14(1):48-56. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdg010.

Psychological responses of patients receiving a diagnosis of cancer.

Schofield PE(1), Butow PN, Thompson JF, Tattersall MH, Beeney LJ, Dunn SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology & Medical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer 
Institute, Victoria, Australia. penelope.schofield@petermac.org

BACKGROUND: Current recommendations on how to break bad news are primarily based 
on expert opinion. Little is known about the association between communication 
practices and patients' psychological response.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One-hundred and thirty-one patients with newly diagnosed 
melanoma were surveyed 4 months after the initial consultation at the Sydney 
Melanoma Unit regarding their communication experiences and their satisfaction 
with these experiences. They completed the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale 
(HADS) at this time, and 4 and 13 months later.
RESULTS: Both patients' satisfaction with communication and their psychological 
morbidity were found to be associated with particular communication practices. 
Practices linked to lower anxiety included preparing the patient for a possible 
diagnosis of cancer; having the people wanted by the patient present to hear the 
diagnosis; giving the patient as much information about the diagnosis as 
desired; providing written information; presenting the information clearly; 
discussing the patient's questions the same day; talking about the patient's 
feelings; and being reassuring. Practices linked with lower levels of depression 
included using the word 'cancer'; discussing the severity of the situation, life 
expectancy and how the cancer might affect other aspects of life; and 
encouraging the patient to be involved in treatment decisions.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provided preliminary evidence that communication 
strategies recommended in the literature produce positive patient outcomes. 
Further studies are needed which document actual communication.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdg010
PMID: 12488292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Rev Saude Publica. 2002 Dec;36(6):709-16. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102002000700008.

[Fall-related factors in a cohort of elderly community residents].

[Article in Portuguese]

Perracini MR(1), Ramos LR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudos do Envelhecimento, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil. mperracini@uol.com.br

OBJECTIVE: To identify factors associated to fall and recurrent fall episodes 
among elderly living in a community, and to determine the relative risk of each 
factor as a fall predictor.
METHODS: A two-year follow-up study with two segments of multi-dimensional 
household surveys (1991-1992 and 1994-1995) was carried out in a cohort of 1,667 
elderly, aged 65 or older, living in a community in the city of São Paulo, 
Brazil. The instrument used for data collection was the BOMFAQ, the Brazilian 
version of the Multidimensional Functional Assessment Questionnaire (OARS). A 
stepwise logistic regression analysis was conducted with p<0.05 and 95% CI.
RESULTS: About 31% of the elderly referred a fall episode and around 11% 
referred two or more fall episodes in the previous year of the first survey. 
After follow-up, 53.4% didn't refer any fall episodes, 32.7% referred a fall 
episode either in the first survey or in the second one and almost 14% referred 
fall episodes in both surveys. The predictive model of recurrent falls was 
composed by the following variables: absence of a spouse (OR=1.59 95% CI 
1.00-2.52), not having a reading habit (OR= 1.56 95% CI 1.03-2.37), history of 
fractures (OR=4.6 95% CI 2.23-9.69 difficulty to perform one to three activities 
of daily life (OR=2.37 95% CI 1.49-3.78), difficulty to perform four or more 
activities of daily life (OR=3.31 95%CI 1.58-6.93) and among those whose sight 
is most impaired (OR=1.53 95%CI 1.00-2.34).
CONCLUSIONS: Population ageing and increase in life expectancy demand preventive 
and rehabilitation actions in order to reduce risk factors for falls, such as 
impaired functional capacity, impaired eye sight and lack of cognitive 
stimulation.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102002000700008
PMID: 12488937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2002 Dec;31(4):1069-91. doi: 
