10.1016/s0889-8553(02)00051-1.

Cost-effectiveness in the prevention of colorectal cancer.

Sonnenberg A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, University of New Mexico, 
Albuquerque, NM, USA. sonnbrg@unm.edu

In cost-effectiveness analyses of cancer prevention, the ratio of cost and 
medical effectiveness serves as the primary measure for comparing various 
strategies, effectiveness being measured in terms of (quality adjusted) 
life-years gained through medical intervention. Such analyses are reliable in 
comparing different medical management strategies and revealing the most 
important factors to influence their cost-effectiveness ratios, but less helpful 
in judging the general merit of a given medical strategy. Models of medical 
decision making are used to simulate the natural history of colorectal cancer 
and test how it becomes affected by various means of screening and prevention. 
The analyses suggest that, compared with no prevention, a single colonoscopy at 
age 65 is the most cost-effective means of cancer prevention in the general 
population, followed by screening colonoscopy every ten years or screening 
colonoscopy every ten years plus chemoprevention with daily aspirin. Other means 
of prevention, involving annual fecal occult blood testing or flexible 
sigmoidoscopy every 5-10 years, are dominated by cheaper and more effective 
strategies. Economic and decision models do not obviate the primacy of clinical 
data gathered through controlled clinical trials, since they cannot account for 
all factors that may eventually determine the cost-effectiveness of actual 
screening and cancer prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8553(02)00051-1
PMID: 12489279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Homo. 2002;53(2):131-45. doi: 10.1078/0018-442x-00041.

An assessment of the health status and physical characteristics of an early 20th 
century community a + Maroelabult in the north west province, South Africa.

Steyn M(1), Nienaber WC, Meiring JH.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Anatomy, University of Pretoria. mysteyn@medic.up.ac.za

As a result of mining activities, two related graveyards dating from the last 
decade of the 19th century and first half of the 20th century had to be 
relocated. This provided the opportunity to study 47 skeletons of black South 
Africans, with the aim of obtaining information on the health status and life 
style of people from a rural area in a mostly pre-antibiotic era. Although the 
sample is too small to do a proper palaeodemographic analysis, the age spread of 
the individuals indicates a high infant mortality rate and generally low life 
expectancy. Medical services were available, as could be seen from the 
surgically treated forearm fracture of one individual. One individual had signs 
of a possible treponemal infection, while subperiosteal bone growth on the ribs 
of another may indicate tuberculosis. High incidences of arthritic disease and 
joint degeneration probably indicate a high work load. Enlarged fontanelles with 
delayed closure were noted in some of the infants. Data on long bone lengths 
also indicate that the growth of the children may have been retarded in 
comparison to other similarly aged children. It thus seems as though this was a 
community under considerable stress. A surprising find was the unusually high 
incidence of individuals with dental abnormalities and variations.

DOI: 10.1078/0018-442x-00041
PMID: 12489412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 2002 Aug;48(4):257-64. doi:
10.3177/jnsv.48.257.

Dietary restriction downregulates free radical and lipid peroxide production: 
plausible mechanism for elongation of life span.

Yu BP(1), Lim BO, Sugano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, Texas 78229-3900, USA.

Dietary restriction elongates life span by suppressing age-related diseases in 
experimental animals. It has received a great deal of attention in connection 
with the relationship between aging, nutrition, and oxidative stress because 
oxidative injury in several tissues is a prominent feature in the aging process. 
Although the oxidative stress theory of aging has currently gained popularity, 
the premise from which this hypothesis was derived is paradoxical because the 
same oxygen, that supports life in one hand threatens survival and promotes 
aging in the other. Until recently, no single experimental paradigm could offer 
satisfactory mechanistic explanations for this complex issue. Recent 
investigations using the life-extending dietary restriction regimen could offer 
satisfactory mechanistic explanations for this apparent self-contradiction to 
life. The modulation of free radical-induced oxidative stress provided 
sufficient data to support the notion that dietary restriction's antiaging 
effect may come from its ability to tightly regulate the oxidative status of an 
organism. The result is the maintenance of cellular homeostasis, a hallmark of 
dietary restriction's action in the extension of life span. To date, we reported 
that dietary restriction (maintained on 60% of ad libitum feeding) suppresses 
age-related oxidative damage by modulating the amount as well as the fatty acid 
composition of tissue phospholipids. These remarkable findings have been 
incorporated into the new "membrane peorxidation cycle" concept. The 
intervention of this cycle appears to be an evolutionary process that the 
dietary restricted rats have adapted as a strategy to protect the membrane in an 
oxidative environment.

DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.48.257
PMID: 12489815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Cancer Lett. 2003 Jan 28;189(2):231-6. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3835(02)00508-6.

Low expression levels of p27 correlate with loco-regional recurrence in 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

Hwang CF(1), Su CY, Huang SC, Huang CC, Fang FM, Lui CC, Chang HW, Cho CL.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Otolaryngology, Chang-Gung University, Chang-Gung Memorial 
Hospital, 123 Ta-Pei Road, Niao-Sung, Kaohsiung 833, Taiwan. cfhwang@seed.net.tw

To clarify the roles of p27 and c-myc in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), we used 
immunohistochemical studies to examine the expression of p27 and c-myc proteins 
in 69 patients with NPC. The results show that a low level of expression was 
observed in 47 and 41 cases, respectively. A low level of p27 expression was 
significantly correlated with loco-regional recurrence, and reduction in the 
c-myc protein was also correlated with neck metastasis in NPC. Our study 
indicates that a reduction in p27 expression is frequently seen in NPC. 
Furthermore, low expression levels of p27 and c-myc may contribute to the 
aggressive behavior of NPC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(02)00508-6
PMID: 12490316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Dec;35(6):517-8. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0131-4.

[Life expectancy in Germany].

[Article in German]

Klein T.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0131-4
PMID: 12490998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Dec;35(6):519-27. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0126-1.

[Active life expectancy: concepts and a new model approach].

[Article in German]

Heigl A(1).

Author information:
(1)HypoVereinsbank Volkswirtschaft, KVW03, 80311 München, Germany.

The question about an increasing health burden due to the ongoing aging process 
of the population has been discussed in the scientific community for a very long 
time. The concept of active life expectancy seems to be a suitable instrument to 
test the controversial perceptions about compression or expansion of morbidity 
in old age. A new model is proposed and described based on the Sullivan method 
which does not quantify the change in active life expectancy at a certain age, 
as is common practice. In fact a new model, which measures the difference in 
active life expectancy at a specific general remaining life expectancy over time 
(DRALE model), seems to be much more appropriate. Thus cohort effects can be 
excluded. Finally, possible restrictions in the course of an empirical testing 
are presented and discussed. Main restrictions are the increasing heterogeneity 
of aging populations, the availability of appropriate data, and the high 
variance of raw data in old age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0126-1
PMID: 12490999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Dec;35(6):528-39. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0127-0.

[Active life expectancy in Germany and in the United States. A cohort analysis 
based on the "German Socio-Economic Panel" (GSOEP) and the "Panel Study of 
Income Dynamics" (PSID)].

[Article in German]

Klein T(1), Unger R.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Soziologie, Universität Heidelberg, Sandgasse 9, 69117 
Heidelberg, Germany.

Using the method of multistate life-tables, the article presents results on 
active life expectancy on the basis of the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP) 
and the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID). The transitions into and out of 
active life are based on event-history analysis and are calculated for different 
cohorts. Compared to cross-sectional analysis, the longitudinal analysis carried 
out here describes active life expectancy with reference to single birth 
cohorts. Results show that in Germany there has been substantial improvement in 
active life expectancy while in the USA there has been some deterioration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0127-0
PMID: 12491000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2002 Dec;35(6):540-55. doi: 10.1007/s00391-002-0128-z.

[Grandparenthood and multigenerational families: are they a social reality or a 
demographic myth?].

[Article in German]

Lauterbach W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Soziologie, Universität Münster, Scharnhorststrasse 121, 48151 
Münster, Germany. Wolfgang.Lauterbach@uni-muenster.de

During the last 20 years, there has been growing literature on the consequences 
of population aging. Longer life expectancies mean that current cohorts can 
expect to spend more years as members of a family than was the case 200 years 
ago. The focus of this paper is on how three lineage generations are affected by 
the increase of the life expectancy, especially the increase in a 
multi-generational family and the common life time of the family members. Using 
event history analysis and the data of the German Socio-economic panel, it is 
shown, on the basis of different birth cohorts, that both Word Wars and the 
period after World War II have had profound negative effects on the common life 
time of grandfathers and their grandchildren. But there has been only a limited 
influence on the life courses of grandmothers and their grandchildren. One 
surprising result is that grandparenthood in Germany has developed into a 
broader phenomenon of the 20th century -- one that arose especially for children 
born after World War II.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-002-0128-z
PMID: 12491001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Clin Infect Dis. 2003 Jan 1;36(1):86-96. doi: 10.1086/344902. Epub 2002 Dec
11.

Prevention of human immunodeficiency virus-related opportunistic infections in 
France: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Yazdanpanah Y(1), Goldie SJ, Paltiel AD, Losina E, Coudeville L, Weinstein MC, 
Gerard Y, Kimmel AD, Zhang H, Salamon R, Mouton Y, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Service Universitaire des Maladies Infectieuses et du Voyageur, Centre 
Hospitalier de Tourcoing, Faculté de Médecine de Lille, Lille, France. 
yyazdan@yahoo.com

A simulation model of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease, which 
incorporated French data on the progression of HIV disease in the absence of 
antiretroviral therapy and on cost, was used to determine the clinical impact 
and cost-effectiveness of different strategies for the prevention of 
opportunistic infections in French patients who receive highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Compared with use of no prophylaxis, use of 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) increased per-person lifetime costs from 
euro 185,600 to euro 187,900 and quality-adjusted life expectancy from 112.2 to 
113.7 months, for an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of euro 18,700 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (euro/QALY) gained. Compared with use of TMP-SMZ 
alone, use of TMP-SMZ plus azithromycin cost euro 23,900/QALY gained; adding 
fluconazole cost an additional euro 54,500/QALY gained. All strategies that 
included oral ganciclovir had cost-effectiveness ratios that exceeded euro 
100,000/QALY gained. In the era of HAART, on the basis of French data, 
prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, toxoplasmic encephalitis, 
and Mycobacterium avium complex bacteremia is cost-effective. Prophylaxis 
against fungal and cytomegalovirus infections is less cost-effective than are 
other therapeutic options for HIV disease and should remain of lower priority.

DOI: 10.1086/344902
PMID: 12491207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Med J Aust. 2003 Jan 6;178(1):9-12. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05031.x.

Whither the World Health Organization?

Reid MA(1), Pearse EJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for International Health, 144-146 Burren Street, Newtown, NSW 2042, 
Australia. mreid@iih.usyd.edu.au

The outgoing Director-General of the World Health Organization, Gro Harlem 
Brundtland, has successfully returned health issues to the international arena. 
The new Director-General will have to cope with reduced control over funding, 
debate over WHO's mandate, and the relationships between WHO and other 
organisations. Despite the broad role described in WHO's constitution, many 
groups see WHO's mandate as narrowly directed at disease eradication. The method 
of choice for funding health programs has become public-private partnerships. 
These have the advantages of bringing private money, management expertise and 
research knowledge to bear on health problems, but rarely consider the health 
system as a whole, focusing instead on specific diseases. This has the potential 
to distort resource allocation and priorities. The international community needs 
to work to strengthen WHO and maintain its broad mandate to achieve the highest 
possible level of health for all people.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05031.x
PMID: 12492382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2002;11 Suppl 3:S576-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.0964-7058.2002.00352.x.

Acculturation: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander nutrition.

Shannon C(1).

Author information:
(1)Indigenous Health Division, School of Population Health, University of 
Queensland, Medical School, Herston Road, Herston, QLD, 4006. 
c.shannon@mailbox.uq.edu.au

The health status of Australia's indigenous people remains the worst of any 
subgroup within the population, and there is little evidence of any significant 
improvement over the past two decades, a situation unprecedented on a world 
scale. Compared with non-indigenous Australians, adult life expectancy is 
reduced by 15-20 years, with twice the rates of mortality from heart disease, 17 
times the death rate from diabetes and 10 times the deaths from pneumonia. 
Despite improvements in perinatal mortality, they continue to represent a major 
cause of death, with infant deaths up to 2.5 times higher than the general 
population. The problems of educational disadvantage and unemployment are 
reflected in twice the rates of smoking and high obesity levels. Seven percent 
of indigenous families are homeless, with many more in inadequate and 
overcrowded housing, sometimes lacking water or sewerage. Economic disadvantage 
is real: 23% worry about going without food. Nutritional deficiencies in 
children have resulted in failure to thrive, contributing greatly to the 
problems of pneumonia and infectious diseases. The remoteness and isolation of 
many Aboriginal communities limit education and employment opportunities. It is 
important to consider the historical context of Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander people, in order to gain an understanding of current health problems. 
The impact of past policies and practices and the 'introduced diet' are 
reflected in the poor health outcomes described above. This session will explore 
some of the underlying historical, cultural, structural and political factors 
that can be linked to the current problems.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0964-7058.2002.00352.x
PMID: 12492650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2002;11 Suppl 3:S637-41. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-6047.11.supp3.18.x.

Can food variety add years to your life?

Savige GS(1).

Author information:
(1)FAO Centre of Excellence, C/-Department of Epidemiology and Preventive 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash Medical 
School, Afred Hospital, Prahran,Vic, Australia. gayle.savige@med.monash.edu.au

The traditional food habits of Greeks and Japanese differ widely, yet both 
populations have the longest life expectancies in the world. Food variety is one 
feature common to both food cultures. By eating a wide variety of foods, 
numerous chemicals that give rise to the diverse range of colours, tastes, 
textures and smells of different foods are consumed. Many of these naturally 
occurring chemicals are likely to play a role in health. Within the broad scope 
of foods available, foods for thought include fish, legumes and nuts. These 
foods are also likely to protect older adults against some of the diseases more 
prevalent with ageing such as coronary heart disease and cancer.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.11.supp3.18.x
PMID: 12492657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2003 Jan;17(1):145-53. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01391.x.

Hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements to assess response to primary 
prophylaxis in patients with cirrhosis: a decision analytical study.

Hicken BL(1), Sharara AI, Abrams GA, Eloubeidi M, Fallon MB, Arguedas MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.

BACKGROUND: The measurement of the hepatic venous pressure gradient may identify 
a suboptimal response to beta-blockers in patients with varices at risk for 
bleeding. However, the cost-effectiveness of routine hepatic venous pressure 
gradient measurements to guide primary prophylaxis has not been examined.
METHODS: We used decision analysis to evaluate two hepatic venous pressure 
gradient measurement strategies relative to standard beta-blocker therapy in a 
hypothetical cohort of patients with high-risk varices: (i) hepatic venous 
pressure gradient measurement 4 weeks after the initiation of beta-blocker 
therapy; and (ii) hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement prior to and 4 
weeks after the initiation of beta-blocker therapy. The total expected costs, 
variceal bleeding episodes and deaths were calculated over a 1-year time 
horizon.
RESULTS: Beta-blocker therapy was associated with total costs of $1464, seven 
variceal bleeding episodes, one variceal bleeding episode-related death and 15 
deaths. One hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement was associated with 
total costs of $5015, four variceal bleeding episodes, one variceal bleeding 
episode-related death and 15 deaths. Two hepatic venous pressure gradient 
measurements were associated with total costs of $8657, four episodes of 
variceal bleeding, one variceal bleeding episode-related death and 15 deaths. 
Compared with beta-blocker therapy alone, the incremental costs per variceal 
bleeding episode prevented and death averted were, respectively, $108 185 and 
$355 100 (one hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement) and $202 796 and 
$719 300 (two hepatic venous pressure gradient measurements). The results were 
sensitive to the time horizon of the analysis, the probability of bleeding 
whilst on beta-blockers and the cost of hepatic venous pressure gradient 
measurement.
CONCLUSION: Hepatic venous pressure gradient measurement to guide primary 
prophylaxis is an expensive strategy for reducing variceal bleeding or death, 
especially in patients with limited life expectancy, such as those with 
advanced, decompensated cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01391.x
PMID: 12492744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Curr Oncol Rep. 2003 Jan;5(1):41-9. doi: 10.1007/s11912-003-0085-8.

Toxicity of treatment for neoplastic meningitis.

Siegal T(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuro-Oncology Center, Hadassah Hebrew University Hospital, Ein-Kerem, PO Box 
12000, Jerusalem 91120, Israel. siegal@hadassah.org.il

Neoplastic seeding of the leptomeninges often signifies limited life expectancy. 
Still, patients are frequently offered aggressive multimodality therapies to 
palliate symptoms, and, one hopes, to prolong survival. Treatment modalities 
directed at the central nervous system (CNS) include radiotherapy, 
intra-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) chemotherapy, standard systemic chemotherapy, 
and systemic high-dose chemotherapy. Because many of these modalities are used 
in combination, it is often difficult to discern which mode is the predominant 
cause of either acute or delayed complications. This review summarizes the 
incidence, clinical manifestations, laboratory findings, and pathology related 
to acute and delayed toxicity of treatment. It describes complications 
associated with radiotherapy, the use of an intraventricular implanted device 
(ie, Ommaya device), adverse effects of intra-CSF chemotherapy, and 
neurotoxicity, either associated with high-dose chemotherapy or manifested as 
delayed and chronic complications of combined therapies. All CNS-directed 
therapies are associated with a high rate of complications. The adverse effects 
of therapy profoundly affect the patient's quality of life, both at the acute 
phase of treatment and in late and chronic complications after therapy is 
completed. Intra-CSF chemotherapy is associated with a high rate of acute, 
reversible adverse effects that sometimes evolve into life-threatening medical 
conditions. Devastating delayed complications, mainly described as 
leukoencephalopathy, develop in more than 50% of patients who survive for 
extended periods and often lead to progressive loss of cognitive capacities. 
Careful assessment of the benefits and potential adverse reactions to a 
particular therapy regimen is mandated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-003-0085-8
PMID: 12493149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Neurobiol Aging. 2003 Jan-Feb;24(1):167-72. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(02)00059-3.

The inherent, age-dependent loss of retinal ganglion cells is related to the 
lifespan of the species.

Neufeld AH(1), Gachie EN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, P O Box 8096, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. 
neufield@vision.wustl.edu

Retinal ganglion cells are neurons that transmit visual information from the 
retina to the brain. With age, there is an inherent loss of retinal ganglion 
cells that we have quantitated by retrograde labeling of these neurons. In adult 
mice, the loss of retinal ganglion cells is approximately 2.3% per month; in 
adult rats, the loss of retinal ganglion cells is approximately 1.5% per month. 
The total losses of these neurons over the average lifespans of mice and rats 
are similar to those which have been reported in monkeys and humans. 
Furthermore, caloric restriction, which extends the lifespans of mice and rats, 
slows the temporal age-related loss of retinal ganglion cells. Thus, the total 
age-dependent losses of these neurons appear to be approximately the same over 
the lifespans of these mammalian species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(02)00059-3
PMID: 12493562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. BMJ. 2002 Dec 21;325(7378):1461-6.

How healthy is the world?

Lomborg B(1).

Author information:
(1)Danish Environmental Assessment Institute, Linnésgade 18, DK-1361 Copenhagen 
K, Denmark. bjorn@lomborg.com

Comment in
    BMJ. 2002 Dec 21;325(7378):1461-6.

PMCID: PMC139042
PMID: 12493669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Br J Nutr. 2002 Nov;88 Suppl 2:S145-50. doi: 10.1079/BJN2002679.

Functional foods: Latin American perspectives.

Lajolo FM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Alimentos e Nutrição Experimental, Faculdade de Ciências 
Farmacêuticas, Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Prof. Lineu Prestes 580, Bl. 14, 
Brazil. fmlajolo@usp.br

The perspectives of Latin America as a potential producer and consumer of 
functional foods will depend largely on the level of information and income of 
the population, credibility of the products, research investments and regulatory 
practices. The characteristics of Latin America are diverse at the regional and 
sub-regional levels. However, as part of the demographic and epidemiological 
transition currently underway, common trends can be identified such as 
increasing urbanization and life expectancy, the occurrence of obesity and 
malnutrition, increasing incidences of chronic diseases and causes of mortality 
rates, all of which suggests the importance of diet and functional foods in 
public health policies. The Latin American population in general has no 
knowledge of functional foods, but in the more urbanized areas there is an 
increasingly health-conscious consumer, aware of the importance of food for 
health, due to the media and local traditions. More investment in research is 
important to explore the existing plant biodiversity that is a rich source of 
new foods and bioactive compounds, some of which are already used for health 
improvement and well-being. Clinical validation of functional foods should 
consider functional food science concepts and also the diverse cultural and 
genetic background of the local population. In Latin American scientific and 
regulatory communities, the functional foods concept has been associated with 
foods having health benefits beyond those of basic nutrition but is not defined 
officially in the emerging regulatory codes. Regulation existing in some 
countries is focused on safety and efficacy; both functional and health claims 
are allowed (risk reduction) provided they have scientific validation. This 
allowed introduction on the market of several products with health claims, some 
of them submitted to post-marketing surveillance.

DOI: 10.1079/BJN2002679
PMID: 12495456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2002 Sep;3(3):137-44.
doi:  10.1080/146608202760834148.

Baroreflex stimulation shows impaired cardiovagal and preserved vasomotor 
function in early-stage amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Hilz MJ(1), Hecht MJ, Mittelhamm F, Neundörfer B, Brown CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Schwabachanlage 6, 
91054 Erlangen, Germany. max.hilz@neuro.med.uni-erlangen.de

OBJECT: In ALS patients, autonomic nervous system dysfunction might account for 
an additional reduction of the quality and expectancy of life of individual 
patients and contribute to unexpected early fatalities. This study was 
undertaken to assess baroreflex-mediated vagal and sympathetic cardiovascular 
control of the heart and blood vessels in ALS patients.
METHODS: In 12 early-stage ALS patients (age 54 +/- 4 years) and 12 controls 
(age 55 +/- 3 years) we assessed resting baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) by 
spectral analysis, then stimulated the carotid baroreflex by oscillating neck 
suction at 0.1 Hz to assess the autonomic modulation of the heart and blood 
vessels and at 0.2 Hz to assess the effect of parasympathetic stimulation on the 
heart.
RESULTS: Resting heart rate was significantly higher in the ALS patients than in 
the controls (P < 0.05), but resting baroreflex sensitivity did not differ 
significantly between the groups. Stimulation at 0.2 Hz induced an oscillation 
in R-R interval that was significantly smaller (P < 0.05) in ALS patients than 
in controls. R-R interval responses to 0.1 Hz stimulation were significantly (P 
< 0.01) reduced in ALS patients compared to controls. Responses of blood vessels 
to 0.1 Hz stimulation did not differ significantly between the groups.
CONCLUSION: In early-stage ALS patients, BRS might be normal at rest. Only 
baroreflex activation reveals impaired cardiovagal responses while sympathetic 
vasomotor control is preserved. Treatment to restore sympathetic-parasympathetic 
balance to the heart could prevent early cardiovascular fatalities in some ALS 
patients.

DOI: 10.1080/146608202760834148
PMID: 12495575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2003 Jan;18(1):26-31. doi:
10.1097/00001573-200301000-00004.

Anticoagulation in management of atrial fibrillation.

Ezekowitz MD(1), Netrebko PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Drexel University College of Medicine, 245 N. 15th 
Street, Mail Stop 487, Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA. 
Michael.D.Ezekowitz@drexel.edu

Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac arrhythmia in adults. The 
prevalence of atrial fibrillation rises with age, reaching as high as 9% in 
those 70 years and older. Currently there are 2.2 million affected people in the 
United States, with twice the mortality rate of age-matched controls in sinus 
rhythm. Epidemiologic studies show atrial fibrillation to be responsible for as 
many as 15% of the total number of strokes, a higher incidence of dementia, 
cardiac function compromise, and decreased quality of life. Recent studies 
indicate that rate control and rhythm restoration are equally effective 
strategies in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, with a trend toward better 
survival in patients treated for rate control and anticoagulation. Data from 
several randomized controlled studies on stroke prophylaxis provided consistent 
evidence of the superiority of adjusted-dose warfarin over aspirin. Guidelines 
developed by the American College of Cardiology, the American Heart Association, 
the European Society of Cardiology, and ACCP provide a convenient 
decision-making framework for the practicing physician. The safety and 
effectiveness of anticoagulation in clinical practice were found to be equal to 
those in major trials with rigorous controls. Despite the proven effectiveness 
and safety of oral anticoagulation for thromboembolism prophylaxis in atrial 
fibrillation, warfarin remains underused, especially among the elderly (75 years 
and older), who are at the greatest risk of stroke and would likely benefit the 
most from prophylactic anticoagulation.

DOI: 10.1097/00001573-200301000-00004
PMID: 12496498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 1999 Dec;2(S4):S2-S4. doi: 
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500366.

The prostate, men and men's health.

Kirby RS(1).

Author information:
(1)St George's Hospital, London, UK.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is the most prevalent disease in the ageing 
male and the incidence of symptomatic disease is likely to increase in the 
millenium with increased life expectancy. BPH can have a severe impact on 
quality of life, including sexual function, and yet many men do not seek medical 
attention for this and many other diseases. Surgery is no longer a mandatory 
treatment for BPH. Medical management can provide excellent symptom relief and 
improvement in urinary flow rates, as well as quality of life, and men need to 
be made aware of this in order to make informed treatment decisions. In the 
broader context, men should be encouraged to become more health conscious and 
develop a more positive attitude towards their health.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500366
PMID: 12496766


193. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 1999 Dec;2(S4):S21-S25. doi: 
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500370.

BPH in the next millennium:a glimpse to the future.

Gómez-Sancha F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Urology and Nephrology, University College London-Middlesex 
Hospital, London, UK.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a highly prevalent, age-related disease. 
As the world population continues to grow and life expectancy increases, the 
population of men suffering from BPH will expand. A greater emphasis will be 
placed on quality of life. The BPH patient of the future will also have greater 
expectations regarding therapy, which will need to be effective in a shorter 
period of time. New technologies for the treatment of BPH are anticipated. 
Already, robot-operated vaporisation of the prostate is being undertaken. With 
regard to medical therapy, more selective and hence, more effective drugs are 
under development. With the identification of new alpha(1)-adrenoceptor 
subtypes, alpha-blocker therapy should target the prostate more accurately. 
Gene-based therapies will have an important role in the future. It is envisaged 
that technology will exist whereby defective genes can be replaced and gene 
expression controlled to overcome the disease process. Through pharmacogenomics, 
drugs will be tail-ored to the individual, which will, in turn, result in more 
economical use of medical therapy. Similarly, the development of nanotechnology 
will allow site-specific delivery of drugs. Together, these advances will make 
the treatment of BPH even more effective in the new millennium.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500370
PMID: 12496770


194. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 1997 Dec;1(2):59-65. doi: 
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500215.

Conservative management of clinically localized prostate cancer.

Adolfsson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Department of Urology, Huddinge University Hospital, 
S-141 86 Huddinge, Sweden.

The purpose of this paper is to review and summarize the current knowledge on 
conservative management of localized prostate cancer. Deferring treatment for 
low-grade, clinically localized prostate cancer is an acceptable treatment 
option for patients with a life expectancy of 10-15 y or less. The outcome of 
available studies on deferred treatment in selected series cannot be compared 
with the outcome in register studies where the patients have been managed with 
noncurative intent, nor can it be directly compared with the outcome of selected 
series on other treatments. The outcome of different treatments for localized 
prostate cancer can only be compared in randomized studies.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500215
PMID: 12496917


195. Rev Neurol. 2002 Dec 1-15;35(11):1094-9.

[Preventive treatment of multiple sclerosis. Rules for treatment with 
immunomodulators].

[Article in Spanish]

Izquierdo G(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Escleroosis Múltiple. Servicio de Neurología. Hospital 
Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, España. ayuso@arrakis.es

INTRODUCTION AND METHOD: At present treatment of multiple sclerosis (EM) is a 
challenge for neurologists in general and specialists in EM in particular, who 
have the problem of digesting the avalanche of information they receive. Use of 
immuno modulators has shown that it is possible to change the natural course of 
the disease and improve life expectancy in EM. Both the number of exacerbations 
of EM and the overall improvement benefit from such treatment. Immunomodulators 
have an established place in the treatment of the remitting relapsing form, 
although its efficacy seems to become less when it is used at more advanced 
stages of EM and seems to have been ruled out for progressive primary forms. 
Immunomodulators may be useful during initial stages of the disorder in the 
first episodes before a definite diagnosis has been established, although it is 
obvious that markers for prognosis are still needed. MR and cerebrospinal fluid 
studies may be useful for this.
CONCLUSION: Patient selection is essential to obtain good results. Although it 
is not fully established, it seems that early use of high doses improves long 
term control of the disease.

PMID: 12497317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Yonsei Med J. 2002 Dec;43(6):769-78. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2002.43.6.769.

Clinicopathologic and biological parameters predicting the prognosis in 
endometrial cancer.

Kim JW(1), Kim SH, Kim YT, Kim DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, C.P.O. Box 8044, Seoul 120-752, Korea. jaewookkim@yumc.yonsei.ac.kr

Endometrial carcinoma is the most common malignancy of the female genital tract 
in United States or Europe, but in Korea, its incidence is comparatively low 
than that of cervical cancer of uterine cervix. Recently the prolonged life 
expectancy, postmenopausal use of hormone replacement therapy, and the 
availability of easily applied diagnostic techniques have led to increasing 
incidence of endometrial cancer. Although during the past several decades, the 
histopathology, spread patterns, and prognostic factors of endometrial cancers 
have been better defined, the clinicopathologic and biologic prognostic 
parameters should be further evaluated for the better treatment results in 
endometrial cancer.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2002.43.6.769
PMID: 12497661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2002 Nov 30;146(48):2312-5.

['Necessity' determined on the basis of disease severity when prioritising 
health care interventions].

[Article in Dutch]

Poley MJ(1), Stolk EA, Brouwer WB, van Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit Rotterdam, Institute for Medical Technology Assessment 
(iMTA), Postbus 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Feb 8;147(6):269; author reply 269.

In the Netherlands, the Priorities in Healthcare [Keuzen in de Zorg] Committee 
proposed that the prioritisation of healthcare interventions should in part be 
based on the criterion 'necessity'. However, this criterion has hardly ever been 
used. It was proposed that 'necessity' should be defined in terms of disease 
severity. This concept examines the fraction of expected quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY) that a patient will lose if the condition concerned is not treated. 
The following two possible applications for healthcare policy were studied. 
Firstly, relatively necessary care could be fully reimbursed, whereas less 
necessary care would only be reimbursed in part. Secondly, for relatively 
necessary interventions a lower cost-effectiveness threshold (relatively high 
costs per QALY for necessary care) could be accepted. In these cases the concept 
of disease severity provides a new feasible interpretation of the criterion 
'necessity'.

PMID: 12497762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Cardiologia. 1999 Dec;44 Suppl 1(Pt 1):315-8.

[Rationale of the cardioprotective effect of diltiazem].

[Article in Italian]

Rapezzi C(1), Vassallo PL, Paoli G, Branzi A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Malattie dell'Apparato Cardiovascolare Università degli Studi 
Policlinico S Orsola-Malpighi Via Massarenti, 9, 40138 Bologna. 
bibcard@almadns.unibo.it

PMID: 12497927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. J Chromatogr A. 2002 Dec 6;979(1-2):271-6. doi:
10.1016/s0021-9673(02)01442-5.

Extension of separation range in capillary isoelectric focusing for resolving 
highly basic biomolecules.

Mohan D(1), Lee CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, College of Life Sciences, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA.

The non-availability of commercial carrier ampholytes in the pH range greater 
than 11 has contributed to difficulties in focusing and resolving highly basic 
proteins/peptides using capillary isoelectric focusing (cIEF). Two different 
approaches, involving the use of N,N,N',N'-tetramethylethylenediamine (TEMED) 
and ampholyte 9-11, are investigated for their effects on the extension of 
separation range in cIEF. The addition of TEMED into pharmalyte 3-10 not only 
prevents the peptides/proteins from focusing in sections of the capillary beyond 
the detection point, but also extends the separation range to at least 
isoelectric point (pI) 12. The combination of ampholyte 9-11 with pharmalyte 
3-10 surprisingly provides baseline resolution between bradykinin (pI 12) and 
cytochrome c (pI 10.3). The sample mixture, containing bradykinin, the high-pI 
protein calibration kit (pI 5.2-10.3), and cytochrome c digest, is employed to 
demonstrate the cIEF separation of proteins and peptides over a wide pH range of 
3.7-12.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9673(02)01442-5
PMID: 12498258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2002 Jan;196(1):23-32. doi: 10.1620/tjem.196.23.

Perspectives on cadmium toxicity research.

Satoh M(1), Koyama H, Kaji T, Kito H, Tohyama C.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Health Sciences Division, National Institute for Environmental 
Studies, Tsukuba 305-8506, Onogawa, Japan. masahiko@nies.go.jp

Since there are a plethora of studies on cadmium toxicity and poisoning in 
laboratory animals and humans, we have limited this review to studies that are 
relevant to human health issues by focusing on carcinogenicity, genotoxicity, 
circulatory disease, nephrotoxicity and life expectancy. Cadmium exposure has 
been established to induce cancer in various tissues of laboratory animals. 
Contrary to early findings of the lack of genotoxicity by cadmium, recent 
findings of mammalian cell culture studies have revealed genotoxic effects. 
Furthermore, cadmium exposure at relatively low doses induces circulatory 
diseases in laboratory animals. Despite such results of various cadmium 
toxicities in animal studies, data from human studies are lacking and 
insufficient to support the cause-effect relationship. Although cadmium is 
currently considered to be a human carcinogen by the International Agency for 
Research and Cancer, it is inappropriate to conclude that sufficient evidence on 
the carcinogenicity of cadmium in humans exists. It is also thought that 
epidemiological studies so far reported do not support the occurrence of 
cadmium-induced circulatory disease in humans. Since there are inconsistent 
reports on the relationship of cadmium exposure with the life expectancy of 
people living in cadmium-polluted areas, further studies are needed for 
clarification. It is also necessary to examine apparent discrepancies in result 
between humans and experimental animals. It has been established that long-term 
exposure to cadmium causes renal dysfunction in both humans and experimental 
animals, and whether there are any differences in the inducibility of 
metallothionein in the kidney warrants further study.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.196.23
PMID: 12498323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Aviat Space Environ Med. 2002 Dec;73(12):1161-6.

Enhancement of preoxygenation for decompression sickness protection: effect of 
exercise duration.

Webb JT(1), Pilmanis AA, Fischer MD, Kannan N.

Collaborators: Pilmanis AA(2).

Author information:
(1)Air Force Research Laboratory, [Wyle Laboratories, Life Sciences, Systems, 
and Services] Brooks AFB, San Antonio, TX 78232, USA. james.webb@brooks.af.mil
(2)Brooks AFB, San Antonio, TX

INTRODUCTION: Since strenuous exercise for 10 min during preoxygenation was 
shown to provide better protection from decompression sickness (DCS) incidence 
than resting preoxygenation, a logical question was: would a longer period of 
strenuous exercise improve protection even further?
HYPOTHESIS: Increased strenuous exercise duration during preoxygenation 
increases DCS protection.
METHODS: There were 60 subjects, 30 men and 30 women, who were exposed to 9,144 
m (4.3 psia) for 4 h while performing mild, upper body exercise. Before the 
exposures, each subject performed three preoxygenation profiles on different 
days in balanced order: a 90-min resting preoxygenation control; a 240-min 
resting preoxygenation control; and a 90-min preoxygenation including exercise 
during the first 15 min. The subjects were monitored at altitude for venous gas 
emboli (VGE) with an echo-imaging system and observed for signs and symptoms of 
DCS.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in occurrence of DCS following 
any of the three preoxygenation procedures. Results were also comparable to an 
earlier report of 42% DCS with a 60-min preoxygenation including a 10-min 
exercise. There was no difference between VGE incidence in the comparison of 
protection offered by a 90-min preoxygenation with or without 13 min of 
strenuous exercise. The DCS incidence following a 240-min resting 
preoxygenation, 40%, was higher than observed during NASA studies and nearly 
identical with the earlier 42% DCS after a 60-min preoxygenation including 
exercise during the first 10 min.
CONCLUSION: The protection offered by a 10 min exercise in a 60-min 
preoxygenation was not increased with extension of the preoxygenation exercise 
period to 15 min in a 90-min preoxygenation, indicating an upper time limit to 
the beneficial effects of strenuous exercise.

PMID: 12498543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Mol Ther. 2002 Dec;6(6):830-6. doi: 10.1006/mthe.2002.0807.

Effects of plasmid-mediated growth hormone-releasing hormone in severely 
debilitated dogs with cancer.

Draghia-Akli R(1), Hahn KA, King GK, Cummings KK, Carpenter RH.

Author information:
(1)ADViSYS, Inc. The Woodlands, Texas 77381, USA. ruxandradraghia@advisys.net

Cachexia is a common manifestation of late stage malignancy and is characterized 
by anemia, anorexia, muscle wasting, loss of adipose tissue, and fatigue. 
Although cachexia is disabling and can diminish the life expectancy of cancer 
patients, there are still no effective therapies for this condition. We have 
examined the feasibility of using a myogenic plasmid to express growth 
hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) in severely debilitated companion dogs with 
naturally occurring tumors. At a median of 16 days after intramuscular delivery 
of the plasmid, serum concentrations of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), a 
measure of GHRH activity, were increased in 12 of 16 dogs (P < 0.01). These 
increases ranged from 21 to 120% (median, 49%) of the pretreatment values and 
were generally sustained or higher on the final evaluation. Anemia resolved 
posttreatment, as indicated by significant increases in mean red blood cell 
count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin concentrations, and there was also a 
significant rise in the percentage of circulating lymphocytes. Treated dogs 
maintained their weights over the 56-day study and did not show any adverse 
effects from the GHRH gene transfer. We conclude that intramuscular injection of 
a GHRH-expressing plasmid is both safe and capable of stimulating the release of 
growth hormone and IGF-I in large animals. The observed anabolic responses to a 
single dose of this therapy might be beneficial in patients with 
cancer-associated anemia and cachexia.

DOI: 10.1006/mthe.2002.0807
PMID: 12498779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2002 Nov;32(11):455-60. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyf097.

Prognostic factors in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma treated by 
transcatheter arterial embolization.

Ikeda M(1), Okada S, Yamamoto S, Sato T, Ueno H, Okusaka T, Kuriyama H, Takayasu 
K, Furukawa H, Iwata R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. sokada@ncc.go.jp

BACKGROUND: Transcatheter arterial embolization induces marked antitumor 
response in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, but the survival benefit of 
transcatheter arterial embolization remains to be determined. This study 
investigated prognostic factors in patients with advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma treated by transcatheter arterial embolization.
METHODS: A total of 128 consecutive patients with non-resectable hepatocellular 
carcinoma, who had undergone transcatheter arterial embolization between May 
1990 and August 1998, were analyzed to investigate prognostic factors.
RESULTS: Median survival time and survival proportions at 1, 3 and 5 years were 
3.3 years, 92.0, 54.6 and 23.4%, respectively. By multivariate analysis using 
the accelerated failure time model, age <60 years, hepatitis C virus antibody 
positivity, serum albumin >3.5 g/dl, absence of portal vein invasion and serum 
alpha-fetoprotein level <400 ng/ml were significantly associated with favorable 
survival. For clinical application, we also propose a prognostic equation with 
combination of specific prognostic factors, by which survival curves of each 
patient could be predicted directly.
CONCLUSION: The findings of the current study may be helpful in predicting the 
life expectancy of hepatocellular carcinoma patients treated by transcatheter 
arterial embolization and in designing future clinical trials of transcatheter 
arterial embolization for hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyf097
PMID: 12499417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Health Care Financ Rev. 2001 Winter;23(2):102-3.

Life expectancy hit new high in 2000.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12500342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2002 Nov;95(11):1081-7.

[Operated and unoperated coarctation of the aorta in the adult].

[Article in French]

