Auriacombe L(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie pédiatrique, hôpital Necker-Enfants malades, 149, rue 
de Sèvres, 75743 Paris.

The common denominator of patients operated for isthmic coarctation of the aorta 
in childhood who reach adulthood, is the risk of hypertension which is observed 
in about 70% of cases with its cortege of cerebral and coronary vascular 
complications or left ventricular hypertrophy, which considerably reduce life 
expectancy. Systematic follow-up of these patients includes, in addition to 
clinical and echocardiographic examination, three essential investigations: 
exercise stress testing, the study of arterial mechanics and angio MRI. 
Hypertension on exercise is observed in 70% of patients of whom 21% have 
critical hypertension despite excellent anatomical correction. Vascular study 
shows changes in arterial eactivity and endothelial function independent of the 
age at operation: MRI often demonstrates aortic irregularities which partially 
explain the hypertension. Three therapeutic choices are available: in cases of 
restenosis, balloon angioplasty with or without stenting gives good results: 
when hypoplasia of the aorta is observed, a surgical repair is recommended: 
otherwise, pharmacological treatment with life style adaptation including 
carefully managed physical exercise is appropriate. Coarctation diagnosed in 
adulthood is rare but poses special problems. Treatment by angioplasty is 
possible but is complicated by aneurysms of the isthmus in 20% of cases so that 
nowadays surgery is the treatment of choice. This is difficult and dangerous 
because of the collateral circulation, the fragility of the aorta and the risk 
of medullary ischaemia. Resection-anastomosis is the most effective technique 
with or without cardiopulmonary bypass, reducing the hypertension in 70% of 
cases.

PMID: 12500630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2002 Nov;95(11):1112-8.

[Outcome of operated Fallot's tetralogy].

[Article in French]

Jimenez M(1), Espil G, Thambo JB, Choussat A.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie pédiatrique, hôpital cardiologique Haut-Lévêque, 
avenue de Magellan, 33604 Pessac.

Fifty years after the beginning of cardiac surgery, a large percentage of 
operated congenital heart disease patients attain adulthood. The tetralogy of 
Fallot is one of the malformations in which the natural outcome was 
unfortunately nearly fatal in the long-term. Open heart surgery has radically 
transformed the prognosis of this, the most common of all cyanotic congenital 
cardiac malformations. Nowadays, most operated patients lead normal professional 
and family lives. Lonf-term survival after correction is between 90-95% after 
30-35 years. Although surgical repair is satisfactory, the operated heart is not 
anatomically normal. The patients have a variable degree of devalvulation of the 
pulmonary outflow tract, a scar on the right ventricle, a patch repairing the 
ventricular septal defect and scars on the atrium (cannulation for 
cardiopulmonary bypass). These sequellae expose the patients to a number of 
complications, notably arrhythmic and sometimes haemodynamic, affecting the 
right ventricle. The late mortality rate varies from 5 to 13% in the literature. 
The main causes of death are sudden death and reoperation. Sudden death is the 
most severe long-term complication but it is uncommon, affecting less than 5% of 
the population. It is mainly due to ventricular arrhythmias. Certain 
predisposing factors should be identified during long-term follow-up, among them 
the presence of haemodynamic abnormalities: systolic overload (residual 
pulmonary stenosis) or diastolic overload of the right ventricle (pulmonary 
regurgitation), infundibular aneurysm, right ventricular dysfunction. It would 
appear to be important to prevent pulmonary regurgitation by preserving the 
pulmonary valve even if it means persistence of a mild transvalvular pressure 
gradient. When pulmonary regurgitation is inevitable, follow-up is essential to 
evaluate the timing of valvulation of the pulmonary orifice. Despite these 
different complications which must be understood for proper follow-up of these 
patients, the long-term outcome of operated tetralogy of Fallot remains very 
good.

PMID: 12500634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Biomed Environ Sci. 2002 Sep;15(3):209-14.

Impact of long-term exposure to air particulate matter on life expectancy and 
survival rate of Shanghai residents.

Kan HD(1), Chen BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, School of Public Health, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200032, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of long-term air particulate matter exposure 
on the life expectancy and survival rate of Shanghai residents.
METHODS: Epidemiology--based exposure-response function was used for the 
calculation of attributable deaths to air particulate matter in Shanghai, and 
the effect of long-term exposure to particulate matter on life expectancy and 
survival rate was estimated using the life table of Shanghai residents in 1999.
RESULTS: It was shown that in 1999, the long-term air particulate matter 
exposure caused 1.34-1.69 years reduction of life expectancy and a decrease of 
survival rate for each age group of Shanghai residents.
CONCLUSION: The effect of long-term exposure to air particulate matter on life 
expectancy is substantial in Shanghai.

PMID: 12500661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2002 Sep;75(1):15-24. doi: 10.1023/a:1016590315382.

Radiation dose, chemotherapy and risk of lung cancer after breast cancer 
treatment.

Rubino C(1), de Vathaire F, Diallo I, Shamsaldin A, Grimaud E, Labbe M, Contesso 
G, Le M.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Cancer Epidemiology, National Institute of Health and Medical 
Research (U521 INSERM), Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

It is of particular concern to evaluate the risk of lung cancer occurrence after 
breast cancer treatment as women with breast cancer quite often undergo 
radiation therapy as part of their initial treatment and their life expectancy 
remains long. From a roster of 7711 women initially treated for breast cancer 
between 1954 and 1984, a cohort-study was performed among 4171 1-year survivors 
followed during the period 1975-1995. The relationship between the radiation 
dose received by the lung and the risk of lung cancer was then evaluated in a 
nested case-control study of 11 breast-cancer patients who developed lung cancer 
and 22 controls matched for age at diagnosis of breast cancer, period of initial 
treatment and length of follow-up. Among the 4171 women, six developed lung 
cancer during the entire follow-up as compared to 5.4 cases expected (SIR = 1.1, 
95% CI: 0.4-2.3). When considering only the women initially treated by 
radiotherapy with or without adjunction of chemotherapy and excluding the 10 
first years of follow-up, the SIR was significantly increased (SIR = 3.2, 95%CI: 
1.0-7.4). In the case-control study, nine of the 11 lung cancers occurred in the 
ipsilateral lung and two in the trachea. The overall odds ratio (OR) of lung 
cancer associated with initial radiotherapy was 1.4 (95% CI: 0.2-11.1) and an 
excess in the OR of 7% (90% CI: ? to 41%, p = 0.10) per gray delivered to the 
site of lung cancer was evidenced. Our results agree with previous studies in 
favor of an increased risk of lung cancer after radiation therapy for breast 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016590315382
PMID: 12500931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. N Engl J Med. 2002 Dec 26;347(26):2111-21. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa021736.

Natural history of alkaptonuria.

Phornphutkul C(1), Introne WJ, Perry MB, Bernardini I, Murphey MD, Fitzpatrick 
DL, Anderson PD, Huizing M, Anikster Y, Gerber LH, Gahl WA.

Author information:
(1)Section on Human Biochemical Genetics, Heritable Disorders Branch, National 
Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Bethesda, Md 20892-1851, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Apr 3;348(14):1408; author reply 1408.

BACKGROUND: Alkaptonuria, caused by mutations in the HGO gene and a deficiency 
of homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, results in an accumulation of homogentisic 
acid (HGA), ochronosis, and destruction of connective tissue. There is no 
effective therapy for this disorder, although nitisinone inhibits the enzyme 
that produces HGA. We performed a study to delineate the natural history of 
alkaptonuria.
METHODS: We evaluated 58 patients with alkaptonuria (age range, 4 to 80 years), 
using clinical, radiographic, biochemical, and molecular methods. A radiographic 
scoring system was devised to assess the severity of spinal and joint damage. 
Two patients were treated with nitisinone for 10 and 9 days, respectively.
RESULTS: Life-table analyses showed that joint replacement was performed at a 
mean age of 55 years and that renal stones developed at 64 years, cardiac-valve 
involvement at 54 years, and coronary-artery calcification at 59 years. Linear 
regression analysis indicated that the radiographic score for the severity of 
disease began increasing after the age of 30 years, with a more rapid increase 
in men than in women. Twenty-three new HGO mutations were identified. In a 
51-year-old woman, urinary HGA excretion fell from 2.9 to 0.13 g per day after a 
10-day course of nitisinone (7 days at a dose of 0.7 mg per day and 3 days at 
2.8 mg per day). In a 59-year-old woman, urinary HGA fell from 6.4 g to 1.7 g 
per day after nine days of treatment with nitisinone (0.7 mg per day). Plasma 
tyrosine levels in these patients rose from approximately 1.1 mg per deciliter 
(60 micromol per liter) in both to approximately 12.8 mg per deciliter (700 
micromol per liter) and 23.6 mg per deciliter (1300 micromol per liter), 
respectively, with no clinical signs or symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The reported data on the natural history of alkaptonuria provide a 
basis for the evaluation of long-term therapies. Although nitisinone can reduce 
HGA production in humans with homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase deficiency, the 
long-term safety and efficacy of this treatment require further evaluation.

Copyright 2002 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa021736
PMID: 12501223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Dig Liver Dis. 2002 Aug;34(8):587-91. doi: 10.1016/s1590-8658(02)80093-7.

Endoscopic treatment of extrahepatic bile duct strictures in patients with 
portal biliopathy carries a high risk of haemobilia: report of 3 cases.

Mutignani M(1), Shah SK, Bruni A, Perri V, Costamagna G.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Catholic University Sacro Cuore, A. Gemelli 
University Hospital, Rome, Italy.

Extrahepatic portal venous obstruction can be associated with bile duct 
abnormalities, the entity being called portal biliopathy. Three cases are 
reported of extrahepatic bile duct strictures in patients with portal biliopathy 
who developed haemobilia during endotherapy. Although endoscopic therapy with 
stent placement can be successful in patients with portal biliopathy and could 
also lead to permanent stricture resolution, procedure-related haemobilia is not 
as uncommon as previously held. Shunt surgery could be a better option in fit 
patients, since it could provide definitive treatment in a young patient with an 
otherwise normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1590-8658(02)80093-7
PMID: 12502216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Jan 7;100(1):301-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0136976100.  Epub 2002 Dec 26.

Phenotypic effects of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mutant Sod alleles 
in transgenic Drosophila.

Mockett RJ(1), Radyuk SN, Benes JJ, Orr WC, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, 1985 Zonal Avenue, Los Angeles 90033, USA.

A subset of patients suffering from familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(FALS) exhibit point mutations in the gene encoding Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase 
[superoxide:superoxide oxidoreductase, EC (SOD)]. The human wild-type and five 
FALS Sod mutant transgenes were introduced into the fruit fly, Drosophila 
melanogaster, in a Cu-Zn Sod null background. Sod null flies had dramatically 
decreased life span, glutathione and methionine content, fertility, locomotor 
activity, and resistance to hyperoxic stress, compared with wild-type controls. 
All of these phenotypic manifestations were rescued fully by a single human 
wild-type allele, expressing 5-10% of wild-type SOD activity. Full recovery of 
wild-type life span was also observed when human mutant and wild-type alleles 
were placed together in the fly Sod null background. The FALS Sod mutations 
alone caused a recessive phenotype, usually involving low or undetectable levels 
of SOD activity, in which: (i) full restoration of the wild-type phenotype was 
observed among young adults, and (ii) older adults exhibited a sudden increase 
in oxidative stress, accompanied by physiological impairment of abrupt onset, 
and followed by premature death. Thus, the minimal SOD activity associated with 
the FALS Sod mutations appears to determine longevity, not by chronically 
increasing oxidative stress, but by limiting the time in which a viable redox 
environment can be maintained. However, the dominant gain of function by mutant 
SOD, which occurs in human patients and in the transgenic mouse model of FALS, 
is not observed in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0136976100
PMCID: PMC140958
PMID: 12502789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Aging Soc Policy. 2002;14(1):35-52. doi: 10.1300/J031v14n01_04.

Is Swedish pension reform the right medicine for aging Europe?

Palmer E(1).

Author information:
(1)Uppsala University, Sweden. edward.palmer@abc.se

Following the Second World War, the idea of the life course with distinct 
periods of education, work, and retirement became popular as a result of the 
alliance of interests of unions and management, with politicians seizing the 
opportunity to accommodate them. These "social partners" implemented benefit 
rules and created practices for using old age and disability to ease the exit of 
older workers. Although justifiable at the time, now those rules and practices 
hinder individual and employer incentives to invest in human capital and work 
environments that enable older workers to remain in the workforce. The article 
argues that the workforce environment of the coming half-century, which is 
relevant for persons born around 2000, is much different from that a hundred 
years earlier, which determined the opportunities for people born around 1900. 
People are healthier and live much longer and work environments are friendlier. 
The article argues that it is no longer justifiable to subsidize exit from the 
workforce around the age of 60 for healthy workers, especially in view of the 
coming labor shortage in Europe. It also argues that the introduction of the 
principles of the Swedish NDC pension reform in Europe would provide 
possibilities for flexible exit from the workforce and remove impediments to 
labor mobility in Europe, which are embedded in many of Europe's present pension 
arrangements.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v14n01_04
PMID: 12503328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Aging Soc Policy. 2002;14(1):81-93. doi: 10.1300/J031v14n01_07.

Social security reform ideas in Japan.

Watanabe N(1).

Author information:
(1)Rissoyo University, Japan. watanab8@ris.ac.jp

Japan has a complex social security system. This article discusses the 
demographic and economic situation in Japan as background for understanding the 
setting in which the social security system functions. Japan has a three-pillar 
system for retirement income. The first pillar is the social security pension 
plan; the second pillar is the voluntary occupational pension plan; and the 
third pillar is personal savings, including the personal pension plan. The most 
important part of the retirement income system is the social security pension 
plan, which paid benefits accounting for 64% of the total income of elderly 
households in 1998. The five Employees' Pension Plans are established on a 
compulsory social insurance basis. Most large Japanese employers have a 
mandatory retirement age. Over 90% of all employees, including public sector 
ones, must retire from their career jobs at age 60.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v14n01_07
PMID: 12503331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nurs N Z. 2002 Oct;8(9):22-5.

Why are some people healthy and others not?

Bloomfield A.

PMID: 12503411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2002 Oct 31;114(19-20):866-73.

Microsurgery for glioblastoma preserves short-term quality of life both in 
functionally impaired and independent patients.

Mühlbauer M(1), Gebhart E, Pfisterer W, Knosp E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Donauspital SMZ-Ost, Vienna, Austria. 
ma.muhlbauer@netway.at

OBJECTIVE: Considering the short remaining life expectancy with glioblastoma 
multiforme, numerous patients and their referring physicians are hesitant to use 
aggressive surgical treatment for fear of greater risk of neurological 
deterioration. The aim of our study was to determine whether surgical treatment 
of glioblastoma, utilizing modern microsurgical dissection techniques and tools, 
interferes with short-term quality of life.
METHODS: The functional status before and after 67 microsurgical operations in 
65 patients with glioblastomas was studied retrospectively. To evaluate the 
patients' quality of life, their functional neurological status was correlated 
with the Karnofsky performance scale (KPS). Post-operative evaluation was done 
within 7 days of surgery.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found between the preoperative and the 
early postoperative functional status. Neither patient age nor the preoperative 
functional status determined a significant risk for postoperative functional 
deterioration. Patients with tumors involving so-called eloquent brain areas 
statistically worsened (p = 0.018); however, they showed only mild clinical 
impairment that was represented by a mean KPS status decline of less than -10. 
After total tumor resection, patients showed functional improvement.
CONCLUSION: Microsurgery is safe and effective in order to improve or preserve 
short-term quality of life in glioblastoma patients. Total tumor resection is 
not associated with a significantly greater risk for neurological deterioration, 
either in patients with preoperative functional impairment, or in functionally 
independent patients.

PMID: 12503479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Environ Monit Assess. 2002 Dec;80(3):277-99. doi: 10.1023/a:1021124404645.

Air pollution in Athens basin and health risk assessment.

Economopoulou AA(1), Economopoulos AP.

Author information:
(1)Civil Engineering Department, Democritus University of Trace, Xanthi, Greece.

An inventory of air pollution sources within the Athens basin is carried out for 
the years 1989, 1992 and 1998 and the results are inputted in a climatological 
model for predicting ambient concentrations. Despite of the significant growth 
in the number of road vehicles and the deteriorating traffic, the emissions and 
ambient concentrations of fine particulates, CO, NOx and VOC appear to remain 
reasonably constant over for the period 1989 to 1998, while these of SO2 and Pb 
are reduced, mainly due to the renewal of vehicle fleet, the use of catalytic 
technologies and the improved quality of the used fuel. The results further 
indicate that for CO, NOx and VOC the major source is road traffic, while for 
PM2.5 and SO2 both space heating and traffic share responsibility. The air 
pollutant concentrations monitored by the network of 11 stations are reviewed 
and statistics related to air quality guidelines are presented. As fine 
particulate levels are not monitored, approximate PM2.5 and PM10 concentrations 
are derived from black smoke ones on basis of experimentally determined 
conversion factors. The computed and monitored air pollution levels are compared 
and found in reasonable agreement. The results of the above analysis show that 
the levels of all 'classical' pollutants, with the exception of SO2 and Pb, 
exceed significantly the WHO guidelines and are thus expected to exert a 
significant health impact. The latter could be quantified in relation to the 
PM2.5 or PM10 levels on the basis of risk assessment information developed by 
the World Health Organization (WHO). The results show that the existing levels 
of fine particle concentrations in Athens increase significantly the mortality 
and morbidity, and reduce the average longevity of the entire population from 
1.3 to 1.7 years.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021124404645
PMID: 12503898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Lancet. 2002 Dec 21-28;360(9350):2026-30. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(02)12022-8.

Dignity in the terminally ill: a cross-sectional, cohort study.

Chochinov HM(1), Hack T, Hassard T, Kristjanson LJ, McClement S, Harlos M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada. 
chochin@cc.UManitoba.CA

Comment in
    Lancet. 2002 Dec 21-28;360(9350):1997-8.
    Lancet. 2003 Mar 1;361(9359):783.

BACKGROUND: Considerations of dignity are often raised in reference to the care 
of dying patients. However, little research that addresses this issue has been 
done. Our aim was to identify the extent to which dying patients perceive they 
are able to maintain a sense of dignity, and to ascertain how demographic and 
disease-specific variables relate to the issue of dignity in these individuals.
METHODS: We did a cross-sectional study of a cohort of terminally ill patients 
with cancer, who had a life expectancy of less than 6 months. We enrolled 213 
patients from two palliative care units in Winnipeg, Canada, and asked them to 
rate their sense of dignity. Our main outcome measures included: a 7-point sense 
of dignity item; the symptom distress scale; the McGill pain questionnaire; the 
index of independence in activities of daily living (IADL); a quality of life 
scale; a brief battery of self-report measures, including screening for desire 
for death, anxiety, hopelessness, and will to live; burden to others; and 
requirement for social support.
FINDINGS: 16 of 213 patients (7.5%; 95% CI 4-11) indicated that loss of dignity 
was a great concern. These patients were far more than likely than the rest of 
the cohort to report psychological distress and symptom distress, heightened 
dependency needs, and loss of will to live.
INTERPRETATION: Loss of dignity is closely associated with certain types of 
distress often seen among the terminally ill. Preservation of dignity should be 
an overall aim of treatment and care in patients who are nearing death.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(02)12022-8
PMID: 12504398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Control Clin Trials. 2002 Dec;23(6):757-73. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(02)00228-3.

Measuring the cost-effectiveness of lipid-lowering drugs in the elderly: the 
outcomes research and economic analysis components of the PROSPER trial.

Avorn J(1), Benner J, Ford I, Ganz DA, Gaw A, Glynn RJ, Jackson J, Lagaay AM, 
Schneeweiss S, Walley T, Wang PS; Outcomes Research Working Group and the 
PROSPER Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA. javorn@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Little information exists to quantify the functional status and economic 
consequences of lipid-lowering therapy in elderly patients. We describe the 
design of the cost-effectiveness component of the first large, randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial of lipid-lowering therapy in subjects aged 70 years or 
older. The PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk has 
randomized 5804 men and women 70-82 years old, with existing vascular disease or 
related risk factors, to receive 40 mg/d of pravastatin or placebo. The 
cost-effectiveness study will be based on within-trial observations of 
differences between the two study arms in rates of myocardial infarction, stroke 
and related vascular disease outcomes (including vascular dementia). In addition 
to comparing within-trial clinical outcomes, we will model the projected changes 
in life expectancy and cardiovascular outcome rates that would be seen with 
lifelong use of the drug, based on the risk reduction rates seen in the trial as 
well as baseline observational data from the three countries where the trial is 
being conducted (Scotland, Ireland and the Netherlands). A state transition 
(Markov) model will be constructed to estimate the likely states of health, 
functional status and health care resource utilization (including lipid-lowering 
drug costs) in a cohort of elderly patients with versus without pravastatin 
therapy over a series of 1-year cycles until death. In addition, a standard 
measure of utility (the Health Utilities Index) will be administered to all 
study subjects to permit calculation of quality-adjusted life-years gained with 
this regimen. This approach will make it possible to go beyond the calculation 
of a single endpoint for each subject, and to translate the trial findings into 
definitions of effectiveness and outcomes that will be relevant to the ongoing 
debate concerning how best to relate the benefits of such medications to their 
costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(02)00228-3
PMID: 12505250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Blood. 2003 May 1;101(9):3386-90. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0947. Epub 2002
Dec  27.

Prevalence and clinical characteristics of myelodysplastic syndrome with bone 
marrow eosinophilia or basophilia.

Matsushima T(1), Handa H, Yokohama A, Nagasaki J, Koiso H, Kin Y, Tanaka Y, 
Sakura T, Tsukamoto N, Karasawa M, Itoh K, Hirabayashi H, Sawamura M, Shinonome 
S, Shimano S, Miyawaki S, Nojima Y, Murakami H.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Gunma University School of Medicine, 
Maebashi, Japan. tmatsu@showa.gunma-u.ac.jp

By retrospectively analyzing 288 patients with de novo myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS), we sought to determine the prevalence and clinical characteristics of 
bone marrow eosinophilia and basophilia that were detected at presentation. Bone 
marrow eosinophilia and basophilia were defined as a differential count of each 
cell type exceeding 5.0% and 1.0%, respectively. Of 288 patients with MDS, 36 
(12.5%) fulfilled this criterion for bone marrow eosinophilia (MDS-Eos); 34 
patients (11.8%) showed basophilia (MDS-Bas), and 11 (3.8%) satisfied both 
criteria (MDS-EosBas). The remaining 229 patients had neither eosinophilia nor 
basophilia in their bone marrow (MDS(-/-)) at presentation. Cytogenetic analysis 
was carried out on unstimulated bone marrow cells obtained from 264 patients. 
When the cytogenetic categorization of the IPSS (International Prognostic 
Scoring System) for MDS was applied, significantly higher numbers of MDS-Eos and 
MDS-Bas patients had chromosomal abnormalities carrying intermediate or poor 
prognosis, compared with the MDS(-/-) patients. Specific chromosomal 
abnormalities and complex karyotypes were associated with MDS-Eos and/or 
MDS-Bas. In accordance with these results, the overall survival rate was 
significantly lower, and the evolution to acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) 
occurred more frequently in the MDS-Eos and MDS-Bas than in the MDS(-/-) 
patients. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that bone marrow basophilia was an 
independent risk factor for evolution to AML. Our study indicates that bone 
marrow eosinophilia and basophilia in patients with MDS predict a poorer 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-03-0947
PMID: 12506028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Jan;14(1):187-96. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000042166.70351.57.

Kidney transplantation in the elderly: a decision analysis.

Jassal SV(1), Krahn MD, Naglie G, Zaltzman JS, Roscoe JM, Cole EH, Redelmeier 
DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
vanita.jassal@uhn.on.ca

Transplantation offers superior life expectancy and quality of life compared 
with dialysis in young patients with end-stage renal failure. However, the 
initial risks of mortality and morbidity are high. This study used a decision 
analysis model to evaluate the costs and benefits of kidney transplantation 
versus continued dialysis for older patients with renal failure. A decision 
analytic model comparing cadaveric renal transplantation to continued 
hemodialysis treatment was developed. The base case considered a theoretical 
cohort of patients aged 65 yr without known comorbidity or contraindications to 
transplantation who would have to wait 2 yr for a cadaveric transplant. Separate 
models were constructed for patients with diabetes or cardiovascular disease and 
for patients receiving an organ after a variety of wait-list times. Probability, 
utility, and survival data were obtained from published reports and renal 
registries. For 65-yr-old patients, quality-adjusted life expectancy increased 
by 1.1 quality-adjusted life years (QALY) at an incremental cost of $67,778 per 
QALY. Assuming a 2-yr wait-listed time, transplantation remained economically 
attractive for 70-yr-old patients (incremental cost effectiveness [ICE], $79,359 
per QALY) but was less economically attractive for those over 75 yr of age (ICE, 
$99,553) or for 70-yr-olds with either cardiovascular disease or diabetes (ICE, 
$126,751 and $161,090 per QALY, respectively). The analytic results were 
sensitive only to the time spent waiting for the graft. The cost-effectiveness 
reduced such that the costs associated with one QALY were in excess of 
$100,000/yr when the probability of a complication was > or = 50% per 3-mo cycle 
and when the utility of transplantation fell below 0.62. If available within a 
timely period, transplantation may offer substantial clinical benefits to older 
patients at a reasonable financial cost. Prolonged waiting times dramatically 
decrease the clinical benefits and economic attractiveness of transplantation, 
suggesting that living donor transplantation may be of particular benefit in 
this population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000042166.70351.57
PMID: 12506151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Jan 7;100(1):289-94. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0136913100. Epub 2002 Dec 27.

Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC-1): mutant truncation prevents binding to 
NudE-like (NUDEL) and inhibits neurite outgrowth.

Ozeki Y(1), Tomoda T, Kleiderlein J, Kamiya A, Bord L, Fujii K, Okawa M, Yamada 
N, Hatten ME, Snyder SH, Ross CA, Sawa A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurobiology and Department of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, 600 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Erratum in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2004 Sep 21;101(38):13969.

Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC-1) is a gene whose mutant truncation is 
associated with major psychiatric illness with a predominance of schizophrenic 
symptomatology. We have cloned and characterized rodent DISC-1. DISC-1 
expression displays pronounced developmental regulation with the highest levels 
in late embryonic life when the cerebral cortex develops. In yeast two-hybrid 
analyses, DISC-1 interacts with a variety of cytoskeletal proteins. One of 
these, NudE-like (NUDEL), is associated with cortical development and is linked 
to LIS-1, the disease gene for a form of lissencephaly, a disorder of cortical 
development. The disease mutant form of DISC-1 fails to bind NUDEL. Expression 
of mutant, but not wild-type, DISC-1 in PC12 cells reduces neurite extension. As 
schizophrenia is thought to reflect defects in cortical development that are 
determined by cytoskeletal protein activities, the cellular disturbances we 
observe with mutant DISC-1 may be relevant to psychopathologic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0136913100
PMCID: PMC140954
PMID: 12506198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Encephale. 2002 Nov-Dec;28(6 Pt 1):552-62.

[Minimizing the risks associated with QTc prolongation in people with 
schizophrenia. A consensus statement by the Cardiac Safety in Schizophrenia 
Group].

[Article in French]

Ames D(1), Camm J, Cook P, Falkai P, Gury C, Hurley R, Johnson G, Piepho R, 
Vieweg V; Cardiac Safety in Schizophrenia Group.

Author information:
(1)Université de Melbourne, Melbourne, Australie.

Schizophrenia is one of the most debilitating mental illnesses, complicated by 
an increased incidence of suicide amongst patients compared with the general 
population. A recent report has also demonstrated a 33% increase in -relative 
risk of death associated with circulatory disease, indicating that the latter 
may be a more critical factor than either suicide or accidental death in this 
population. Indeed, the average life expectancy of a person with schizophrenia 
is currently approximately a decade less than that of the general population. 
Additionally, it has been shown that in over 50% of people with schizophrenia, 
there is a reduction in their chance of reaching psychosocial goals. Since the 
arrival of the first antipsychotic drugs in the middle of the last century, the 
outlook for patients with schizophrenia has improved markedly. In particular, 
the introduction of the new generation (atypical) class of antipsychotic agents 
in the 1980s and 90s has resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence of 
violent and aggressive episodes in treated patients. A better side-effect 
profile of these drugs, especially reduced extra pyramidal symptoms (EPS), has 
resulted in improved patient outcomes and the possibility of good long-term 
control of the disorder. However, while the introduction of antipsychotic agents 
has undoubtedly revolutionised the prognosis for patients with schizophrenia, 
these medications are not without their own problems. One of the concerns to 
emerge over the last fifteen years is unpredictable, sudden and unexplained 
death in patients taking antipsychotic drugs. The cause of sudden death in this 
population is controversial and the role of drugs is not clear. People with 
schizophrenia also appear to be at higher risk of cardiovascular disease 
compared with the general population. Many factors may play a role in this 
including a higher prevalence of smoking, poorer diet, more sedentary lifestyle 
and a greater likelihood of alcoholism and substance abuse. However, it is 
possible that the impact of adverse effects on the cardiovascular system related 
to certain antipsychotic drug use may well increase the prevalence of mortality 
and morbidity due to cardiovascular events and may also play a significant role 
in the reduced life expectancy of the patient with schizophrenia. The range of 
mechanisms whereby antipsychotic drugs can influence cardiovascular function is 
very broad and includes: receptor blockade; conduction disturbance (eg bundle 
branch block); delayed ventricular repolarisation (prolonged QTc interval); left 
ventricular dysfunction; sinus node abnormalities; myocarditis; postural 
hypotension; polydipsia-hyponatremia syndrome; weight gain; glucose intolerance. 
Of these, QTc interval prolongation, with the risk of progression to the 
potentially fatal ventricular tachyarrhythmia Torsades de Pointes (TdP), is of 
particular concern as this arrhythmia is unpredictable and difficult to manage. 
Coupled with these clinical concerns are regulatory issues regarding several 
compounds that have received warnings or been withdrawn from the market. 
Recently, there has been no clear guidance for psychiatrists regarding QTc 
interval prolongation and TdP. This document seeks: 1) to explore drug-induced 
ventricular arrhythmias with particular emphasis on QTc interval prolongation as 
a warning of increased vulnerability, 2) to provide guidelines on the 
therapeutic management of the patient with schizophrenia to minimize the risk of 
iatrogenic cardiotoxicity. Several guidance documents have previously been 
published in this area including the report published by the UK Working Group of 
the Royal College of Psychiatrists' Psychopharmacology Sub-Group in 1997, and 
the policy document on the potential for QTc prolongation and proarrhythmia by 
non-antiarrhythmic drugs published in June 1999 under the auspices of the 
European Society of Cardiology. This document seeks to supplement currently 
published guidelines.

PMID: 12506268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Ital Heart J. 2002 Nov;3(11):623-5.

Is the chest pain in cardiac syndrome X due to subendocardial ischaemia?

Camici PG.

PMID: 12506518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Soc Work Health Care. 2002;36(1):45-58. doi: 10.1300/J010v36n01_04.

Cystic fibrosis and the transition to adulthood.

Palmer ML(1), Boisen LS.

Author information:
(1)HealthEast Care System, St Paul, MN, USA.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) has long been thought of as a childhood disease but the 
life expectancy for those with CF has been steadily on the rise and now reaches 
well into adulthood. There has been little or no research on the psychosocial 
impact of CF on becoming an adult. This exploratory, qualitative study examined 
the perceptions of young adults with CF regarding the impact the disease has had 
on their lives, especially during the transition from adolescence to adulthood. 
The findings indicate concerns about health insurance and finances, as well as 
the achievement of independence and optimism for the future.

DOI: 10.1300/J010v36n01_04
PMID: 12506961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Neurosurg. 2002 Dec;97(5 Suppl):484-8. doi:
10.3171/jns.2002.97.supplement.

Gamma knife radiosurgery for metastatic brain tumors from lung cancer: a 
comparison between small cell and non-small cell carcinoma.

Serizawa T(1), Ono J, Iichi T, Matsuda S, Sato M, Odaki M, Hirai S, Osato K, 
Saeki N, Yamaura A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Chiba Cardiovascular Center, Ichihara, Japan. 
QWT03231@nifty.ne.jp

OBJECT: The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the 
effectiveness of gamma knife radiosurgery (GKS) for the treatment of metastatic 
brain tumors from lung cancer, with particular reference to small cell lung 
carcinoma (SCLC) compared with non-SCLC (NSCLC).
METHODS: Two hundred forty-five consecutive patients meeting the following five 
criteria were evaluated in this study: 1) no prior brain tumor treatment; 2) 25 
or fewer lesions; 3) a maximum of three tumors with a diameter of 20 mm or 
larger; 4) no surgically inaccessible tumor 30 mm or greater in diameter; and 5) 
more than 3 months of life expectancy. According to the same treatment protocol, 
large tumors (> or = 30 mm) were surgically removed and the other small lesions 
(< 30 mm) were treated with GKS. New lesions were treated with repeated GKS. 
Chemotherapy was administered, according to the primary physician's protocol, as 
aggressively as possible. Progression-free, overall, neurological, qualitative, 
and new lesion-free survival were calculated with the Kaplan-Meier method and 
were compared in the SCLC and NSCLC groups by using the log-rank test. The poor 
prognostic factors for each type of survival were also analyzed with the Cox 
proportional hazard model.
CONCLUSIONS: Tumor control rate at 1 year was 94.5% in the SCLC group and 98% in 
the NSCLC group. The median survival time was 9.1 months in the SCLC group and 
8.6 months in the NSCLC group. The 1-year survival rates in the SCLC group were 
86.5% for neurological survival and 68.9% for qualitative survival; those in the 
NSCLC group were 87.9% for neurological and 78.9% for qualitative survival. The 
estimated median interval to emergence of a new lesion was 6.9 months in the 
SCLC group and 9.8 months in the NSCLC group. There was no significant 
difference between the two groups for any type of survival; this finding was 
verified by multivariate analysis. The results of this study suggest that GKS 
appears to be as effective in treating brain metastases from SCLC as for those 
from NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2002.97.supplement
PMID: 12507082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Neurosurg. 2002 Dec;97(5 Suppl):515-24. doi:
10.3171/jns.2002.97.supplement.

Gamma knife radiosurgery for brain metastases: a primary therapeutic option.

Gerosa M(1), Nicolato A, Foroni R, Zanotti B, Tomazzoli L, Miscusi M, 
Alessandrini F, Bricolo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological and Vision Sciences, University Hospital, Verona, 
Italy. massimo.gerosa@univr.it

OBJECT: The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the role of gamma 
knife radiosurgery (GKS) as a primary treatment for brain metastases by 
evaluating the results in particularly difficult cases such as oncotypes-which 
are unresponsive to radiation-cystic lesions, and highly critical locations such 
as the brainstem.
METHODS: Treatment of 804 patients with 1307 solitary (29%), single (26%), and 
multiple (45%) brain metastases was evaluated. Treatment planning parameters 
were as follows: mean tumor volume 4.8 cm3 (range 0.01-21.5 cm3), mean 
prescription dose 20.6 Gy (range 12-29 Gy), and mean number of isocenters 6.5 
(one-19). In unresponsive oncotypes such as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, 
the mean target dosages were higher. Cystic metastatic lesions were initially 
stereotactically evacuated and then GKS was performed. Patients with brainstem 
metastases were treated with lower doses. Conventional radiotherapy was used in 
only a minority (14%) of selected cases. The overall median patient survival 
time was 13.5 months, and the 1-year actuarial local progression-free survival 
rate was 94%, with a mean palliation index and functional independence index of 
53.8 and 52.5 weeks, respectively. The local tumor control rate was 93%, with a 
mean follow-up period of 14 months. In the overall series, and especially in the 
unresponsive oncotypes, systemic disease progression was the main limiting 
factor with regard to patient life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Gamma knife radiosurgery seems to be the primary treatment option 
for patients harboring small-to-medium size (< or = 20-cm3) brain metastases 
with reasonable life expectancy and no impending intracranial hypertension. 
Results are better than with those obtained using whole-brain radiotherapy and 
comparable to the best selected surgery-radiation series, even in oncotypes 
unresponsive to therapeutic radiation, cystic tumors, and tumors located in the 
brain stem.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.2002.97.supplement
PMID: 12507088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2002 Nov-Dec;17(6):799-810.

A 5-year longitudinal study of the clinical effectiveness of ITI solid-screw 
implants in the treatment of mandibular edentulism.

Behneke A(1), Behneke N, d'Hoedt B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Mainz, Germany.

PURPOSE: The aim of this longitudinal study was to gain 5-year clinical 
documentation of the 1-stage surgical technique in connection with ITI 
solid-screw implants used in the edentulous mandible.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred patients with totally edentulous mandibles 
were treated with bar-retained overdentures supported by a total of 340 
consecutively placed ITI solid-screw implants. The patients were followed at 
annual intervals for at least 5 years to evaluate implant success, longitudinal 
reactions of the peri-implant hard and soft tissues, and incidences of biologic 
and mechanical complications.
RESULTS: During the trial period, a total of 4 implants failed, all prior to 
loading, and 51 implants were lost to follow-up, resulting in a cumulative 
survival rate of 98.8% after 5 years of functional service. The success analysis 
included additional strictly defined events (either "first occurrence of 
marginal bone loss > or = 4 mm" or "first occurrence of pocket depth > or = 4 
mm" and "first occurrence of crevicular fluid flow rate > or = 2.5 mm) and 
resulted in a cumulative 5-year success rate of 95.7%. The median marginal bone 
loss experienced between implant placement and prosthetic treatment was 0.5 mm, 
followed by an annual bone level change of 0.1 mm for the functional period of 5 
years. The increasing incidence of remarkable plaque deposits from 19% to 50% 
represented the difficulties of the patients in maintaining a high level of oral 
hygiene, particularly for the lingual surfaces. Sulcus Bleeding Index, probing 
depth, attachment level, and crevicular fluid flow rate were used to describe 
the health of the peri-implant soft tissues and remained almost within 
acceptable standards.
DISCUSSION: Survival and success rates of implants, amount of marginal bone 
loss, and periodontal indices of peri-implant soft tissues were consistent with 
those reported in the literature regarding implants with the submerged healing 
concept.
CONCLUSION: With a cumulative survival rate of 98.8%, a cumulative success rate 
of 95.7%, and a median marginal bone loss of 0.5 mm during the healing period, 
followed by an annual rate of 0.1 mm after loading, non-submerged ITI 
solid-screw implants confirm the good clinical outcome of implant-supported 
treatment concepts for the rehabilitation of totally edentulous patients in a 
medium-term perspective.

PMID: 12507239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Med Inform Internet Med. 2002 Sep;27(3):153-60. doi: 
10.1080/1463923021000014112.

Health websites in Italy: use, classification and international policy.

Di Giacomo P(1), Maceratini R.

Author information:
(1)Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca per l'Analisis dei Modelli e 
dell'Informazione nei Sistemi Biomedici, Università La Sapienza di Roma, Corso 
Vittorio Emanuele 244-00186, Roma. Paola.Digiacomo@uniroma1.it

In this paper, we discuss international policy in relation to the use of health 
websites and we describe the results obtained from application of a search 
engine to the recognition and classification of health websites in Italy. We 
then compare the results with health websites in other countries. Effective use 
of technology has led to medical advances that have not only extended life 
expectancy, but also fuelled an increasingly well-informed public to expect more 
and more from today's healthcare providers. As a consequence of the Web's rapid, 
chaotic growth, the resulting network of information lacks organization and 
structure and the quest for a method of quickly finding relevant and reliable 
information is spawning the growth of Internet portal sites. The US and the 
European Union and now Italy, have established the importance of rules to check 
the quality of health sites both for the non-professional users (citizens), 
mainly for privacy and security (for example, of medical records); and for 
health operators (physicians and others), where the most important thing is to 
evaluate the quality of content. In June 2001, the search engine used here found 
2627 Italian health sites, of which only 46 exhibited the HON Code, and they can 
be classified into: 1% personal medical sites, 17% health portals, 18%, 
metasites, 27% documental sites and 37% information sites for health operators 
and/or for citizens.

DOI: 10.1080/1463923021000014112
PMID: 12507261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Histol Histopathol. 2003 Jan;18(1):93-102. doi: 10.14670/HH-18.93.

Diagnostic differentiation of essential thrombocythaemia from thrombocythaemias 
associated with chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis by discriminate analysis of 
bone marrow features--a clinicopathological study on 272 patients.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 
D-50924 Cologne, Germany. j.thiele@uni-koeln.de

Until now diagnosis of essential thrombocythaemia (ET) is generally performed by 
following the criteria of the Polycythaemia Vera Study Group (PVSG) that only 
marginally regards morphological features. Bone marrow biopsies were studied 
from 272 patients with ET in strict accordance with the PVSG guidelines and also 
from 35 control patients with reactive thrombocytosis. To define morphological 
features of distinctive impact more accurately, we performed a stepwise 
discriminant analysis of 16 morphological parameters based on histochemical 
staining reactions and semiquantitative grading of standardized features. A 
clear-cut separation into three distinctive histological patterns was 
accomplished that showed in more than 96% a correct predicted classification. 
Variables of significant impact included fibre content, quantity and cytological 
abnormalities of megakaryopoiesis like bulbous (cloud-like) nuclei, degree of 
nuclear lobulation and presence of giant forms. These changes were not 
detectable in the control group. The different constellations of 
histopathological features could be assigned to true ET (98 patients) and false 
ET, i.e. 136 patients with prefibrotic and 38 patients with early fibrotic 
chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF) accompanied by thrombocythaemia. A 
re-evaluation of clinical findings was in keeping with this classification into 
three categories that exerted significant differences to develop myelofibrosis 
during observation time and also different survival patterns. Contrasting IMF 
true ET is characterized by a pronounced proliferation of the megakaryocyte 
lineage showing large to giant cells without maturation defects and no relevant 
increase in reticulin fibres. Discrimination between these entities is 
warranted, because of a significant difference in presenting haematological 
data, follow-up and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-18.93
PMID: 12507288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Clin Chem. 2003 Jan;49(1):60-8. doi: 10.1373/49.1.60.

C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and procalcitonin in the immediate postnatal 
period: influence of illness severity, risk status, antenatal and perinatal 
complications, and infection.

Chiesa C(1), Pellegrini G, Panero A, Osborn JF, Signore F, Assumma M, Pacifico 
L.

Author information:
(1)National Research Council, 00161 Rome, Italy. Claudio.Chiesa@Uniroma1.it

Comment on
    Clin Chem. 2003 Jan;49(1):21-2.

BACKGROUND: Studies of the diagnostic accuracy of most laboratory tests for 
early-onset neonatal sepsis have yielded variable results. We investigated 
whether some of this variation might be attributable to differences in 
population baseline severity and risk status as well as to specific ante- and 
perinatal variables, independent of the presence of neonatal infection.
METHODS: The Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology (SNAP) was used to define 
illness severity, with SNAP Perinatal Extension (SNAP-PE) used to define the 
combined physiologic and perinatal mortality risk. A total of 134 ill newborns 
(19 with early-onset infection and 115 with no infection) were available for 
simultaneous analysis of the association of SNAP, SNAP-PE, and maternal and 
perinatal variables with C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and 
procalcitonin (PCT) concentrations at birth and at 24 and 48 h of life.
RESULTS: Early-onset neonatal infection was associated with significant 
increases in CRP, IL-6, and PCT concentrations at all three time points, 
independent of illness severity. However, among babies without infection, higher 
SNAP and SNAP-PE scores were associated with higher IL-6 concentrations at 
birth. Certain maternal or perinatal variables altered IL-6 and PCT values in 
the infected as well as in the uninfected neonates. However, if different cutoff 
points were used at any of the three neonatal ages, PCT sensitivity and 
specificity were greater than those of CRP or IL-6.
CONCLUSIONS: Illness severity and risk status are unlikely to interfere with the 
use of CRP and PCT for detection of early-onset neonatal sepsis. In contrast, 
the diagnostic value of IL-6 at birth may be altered by physiologic severity and 
risk indexes. The reliability of CRP, IL-6, and PCT for the diagnosis of 
early-onset neonatal infection requires specific cutoff values for each 
evaluation time point over the first 48 h of life.

DOI: 10.1373/49.1.60
PMID: 12507961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Am J Hematol. 2003 Jan;72(1):53-63. doi: 10.1002/ajh.10262.

Childhood and adolescent large-cell lymphoma (LCL): a review of the Children's 
Cancer Group experience.

Cairo MS(1), Sposto R, Hoover-Regan M, Meadows AT, Anderson JR, Siegel SE, Kadin 
ME, Kjeldsberg CR, Wilson JF, Perkins SL, Lones MA, Morris E, Finlay JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA. 
mc1310@columbia.edu

We reviewed the clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcome of 67 children 
with localized and 212 with disseminated large-cell lymphoma (LCL) treated 
during a 20-year period in 5 consecutive Children's Cancer Group (CCG) 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) trials. Clinical outcomes for patients treated on 
the four earlier studies with moderate-dose chemotherapy administered over 12-18 
months were compared with patients treated most recently with short, intensive 
therapy. Median age at diagnosis was 12 years (range: 0-19 years). Male to 
female ratio was 1.8:1.0. Five-year event-free survival (EFS) was 92% +/- 3.3% 
and 50 +/- 3.5% for patients with localized LCL and disseminated LCL, 
respectively. After adjustment for lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), age at 
diagnosis, and BM involvement, short and intensive therapy as delivered on the 
most recent study, CCG-5911, was associated with an improved outcome (P< 0.05) 
compared to the four previous studies. Elevated LDH (> or = 500 IU/L) at 
diagnosis and young age (<5 years) were both significant independent predictors 
of poorer long-term EFS (P< 0.05). Long-term survival after relapse or other 
treatment failure was only 31% +/- 4.7%. In summary, more recent shorter and 
intense therapy appears to be associated with superior event-free survival for 
children and adolescents with disseminated LCL. Large numbers of patients 
treated with shorter and intense therapy are required to confirm these 
preliminary observations.
