
Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.10262
PMID: 12508269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Bioessays. 2003 Jan;25(1):93-4; author reply 94-5. doi: 10.1002/bies.10214.

A public debate about the feasibility of reversing human ageing could be 
detrimental.

Le Bourg E.

Comment on
    Bioessays. 2002 Jul;24(7):667-76.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.10214
PMID: 12508288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Pediatrics. 2003 Jan;111(1):146-52. doi: 10.1542/peds.111.1.146.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of predischarge monitoring for apnea of prematurity.

Zupancic JA(1), Richardson DK, O'Brien BJ, Eichenwald EC, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA. zupancic@post.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: It is standard practice to defer discharge of premature infants until 
they have achieved a set number of days without experiencing apnea. The duration 
of this period, however, is highly variable across institutions, and there is 
scant literature on its effectiveness or value-for-money. Our objective was to 
establish the economic impact of varying durations of predischarge observation 
for apnea of prematurity.
METHODS: Using computer simulation, we compared the alternatives of hospital 
monitoring for 1 to 10 days, after apparent cessation of apnea, with no 
monitoring and with the next longest period of monitoring. The daily probability 
of apnea requiring stimulation after a given number of apnea-free days was 
obtained from chart review of 216 infants, beginning on the day they attained 
both full feeds and temperature stability in an open crib. Baseline rates of 
survival or impairment, utilities for calculation of quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), outcomes for respiratory arrest at home, and long-run costs for 
neurodevelopmental impairment were derived from the literature. Hospital 
expenditures were obtained from itemized billing records for infants on each of 
the final 10 days of hospitalization and converted to costs using Medicare 
cost-to-charge ratios. Costs are reported in 2000 US dollars.
RESULTS: For infants born at 24 to 26 weeks' gestation, each additional day of 
monitoring cost from $41000 per QALY saved for the first day to >$130000 per 
additional QALY gained for the tenth day. Cost-effectiveness was poorer for 
infants who were born at gestational ages >30 weeks. Results were sensitive to 
the proportion of charted apneas requiring stimulation that would actually 
progress, without intervention, to respiratory arrest.
CONCLUSIONS: In this model, the cost-effectiveness of predischarge monitoring 
for apnea of prematurity declined significantly as the duration of monitoring 
was increased. Consideration should be given to alternative uses for resources 
in formulating neonatal discharge guidelines.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.111.1.146
PMID: 12509568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2003 Jan;42(1):46-53. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keg029.

Cost-effectiveness of low dose corticosteroids versus non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs and COX-2 specific inhibitors in the long-term treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis.

Bae SC(1), Corzillius M, Kuntz KM, Liang MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, 
Harvard Medical School, Robert B. Brigham Multipurpose Arthritis and 
Musculoskeletal Diseases Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used in nearly 
every patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) as part of a comprehensive 
management programme, but their use can be associated with side-effects. Low 
dose corticosteroid (<10 mg/day prednisone) in the treatment of RA is 
controversial. Although it is effective and possibly disease modifying, concerns 
exist about potential adverse events. We assessed costs and health effects of 
corticosteroids compared with NSAIDs and cyclo-oxgenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors.
METHODS: Markov (state transition) models were used to simulate a cohort of RA 
patients taking disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and either corticosteroids 
or NSAIDs. The regimens were assumed to be equally effective for the control of 
RA. Data on incidence, costs and consequences of adverse events from 
corticosteroids and from NSAIDs were taken from the literature. Costs were 
measured in 1999 US dollars; health effects expressed as quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Sensitivity analyses were performed including best-case scenarios 
(0.5x adverse event rate) and worst-case scenarios (1.5x adverse event rate).
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis corticosteroids were superior to NSAIDs. The 
sensitivity analyses of adverse event rate, using best-case and worst-case 
scenarios, and age showed that the results were sensitive to each combination of 
adverse event rate and age. In contrast, the sensitivity analyses of costs and 
utilities were robust. Using misoprostol or omeprazole prophylaxis with NSAIDs 
would make corticosteroids cost-effective. Compared with NSAIDs with COX-2 
specific inhibition, corticosteroids were still cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Corticosteroids are more cost-effective than NSAIDs and COX-2 
inhibitors in the long-term treatment of RA.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keg029
PMID: 12509612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Arch Womens Ment Health. 2002 Oct;5(2):73-7. doi: 10.1007/s00737-002-0144-4.

Possible influence of selection bias on gender differences in the risk of 
Alzheimer's disease.

Bonsignore M(1), Barkow K, Heun R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

For the observation of a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in women, 
causes like a general longer life expectancy of women, a longer lifespan of 
women with AD, a later age at onset and a lower level of education compared with 
men have been discussed. However, methodological artefacts could also contribute 
to the observed gender difference. Data from a comprehensive family study was 
re-evaluated, in which a gender difference in the risk of AD had been observed. 
Available relatives had been directly interviewed, information on unavailable 
ones was provided by thirds. A differential, gender specific participation led 
to the under-representation of older and demented men, creating a selection 
bias, that may be the cause for the observed gender difference in the risk of 
AD. Study methods must be taken into account when interpreting information on 
gender differences in the risk of AD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00737-002-0144-4
PMID: 12510202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. SCI Nurs. 2002 Summer;19(2):51-60.

Aging and spinal cord injury: medical, functional, and psychosocial changes.

Kemp B(1), Thompson L.

Author information:
(1)Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Downey, California, USA.

Fifty years ago, people who had a spinal cord injury had very limited life 
expectancies. Today, these individuals can expect to live into their 60s, 70s, 
and beyond. Advances in rehabilitation, technology, surgery, and medicines have 
been chiefly responsible for this change. Recent research in both Europe and the 
United States now indicates that as these people age, they often develop medical 
and functional problems that are not as common in their nondisabled peers until 
much later in life. The importance of these "premature" age-related problems has 
led the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research to fund the 
Rehabilitation Research and Training Center (RRTC) on Aging With a Spinal Cord 
Injury at Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center in Downey, 
California. This article summarizes some of the important findings from this 
RRTC and from other sources.

PMID: 12510506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Med Vet Entomol. 2002 Dec;16(4):404-8. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2915.2002.00395.x.

Insecticide-treated plastic tarpaulins for control of malaria vectors in refugee 
camps.

Graham K(1), Mohammad N, Rehman H, Nazari A, Ahmad M, Kamal M, Skovmand O, 
Guillet P, Allan R, Zaim M, Yates A, Lines J, Rowland M.

Author information:
(1)HealthNet International, Peshawar, Pakistan.

Spraying of canvas tents with residual pyrethroid insecticide is an established 
method of malaria vector control in tented refugee camps. In recent years, 
plastic sheeting (polythene tarpaulins) has replaced canvas as the utilitarian 
shelter material for displaced populations in complex emergencies. Advances in 
technology enable polythene sheeting to be impregnated with pyrethroid during 
manufacture. The efficacy of such material against mosquitoes when erected as 
shelters under typical refugee camp conditions is unknown. Tests were undertaken 
with free-flying mosquitoes on entomological study platforms in an Afghan 
refugee camp to compare the insecticidal efficacy of plastic tarpaulin sprayed 
with deltamethrin on its inner surface (target dose 30 mg/m2), tarpaulin 
impregnated with deltamethrin (initially > or = 30 mg/m2) during manufacture, 
and a tent made from the factory impregnated tarpaulin material. Preliminary 
tests done in the laboratory with Anopheles stephensi Liston (Diptera: 
Culicidae) showed that 1-min exposure to factory-impregnated tarpaulins would 
give 100% mortality even after outdoor weathering in a temperate climate for 12 
weeks. Outdoor platform tests with the erected materials (baited with human 
subjects) produced mosquito mortality rates between 86-100% for sprayed or 
factory-impregnated tarpaulins and tents (average approximately 40 anophelines 
and approximately 200 culicines/per platform/night), whereas control mortality 
(with untreated tarpaulin) was no more than 5%. Fewer than 20% of mosquitoes 
blood-fed on human subjects under either insecticide-treated or non-treated 
shelters. The tarpaulin shelter was a poor barrier to host-seeking mosquitoes 
and treatment with insecticide did not reduce the proportion blood-feeding. Even 
so, the deployment of insecticide-impregnated tarpaulins in refugee camps, if 
used by the majority of refugees, has the potential to control malaria by 
killing high proportions of mosquitoes and so reducing the average life 
expectancy of vectors (greatly reducing vectorial capacity), rather than by 
directly protecting refugees from mosquito bites. Mass coverage with 
deltamethrin-sprayed or impregnated tarpaulins or tents has strong potential for 
preventing malaria in displaced populations affected by conflict.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2915.2002.00395.x
PMID: 12510893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Blood. 2003 May 15;101(10):4172-9. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2382. Epub
2003  Jan 2.

Effects of combined chelation treatment with pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone 
analogs and deferoxamine in hypertransfused rats and in iron-loaded rat heart 
cells.

Link G(1), Ponka P, Konijn AM, Breuer W, Cabantchik ZI, Hershko C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition and Metabolism, Hebrew University Hadassah 
Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.

Although iron chelation therapy with deferoxamine (DFO) results in improved life 
expectancy of patients with thalassemia, compliance with parenteral DFO 
treatment is unsatisfactory, underlining the need for alternative drugs and 
innovative ways of drug administration. We examined the chelating potential of 
pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone (PIH) analogs, alone or in combination with 
DFO, using hypertransfused rats with labeled hepatocellular iron stores and 
cultured iron-loaded rat heart cells. Our in vivo studies using 2 representative 
PIH analogs, 108-o and 109-o, have shown that PIH analogs given orally are 2.6 
to 2.8 times more effective in mobilizing hepatocellular iron in rats, on a 
weight-per-weight basis, than parenteral DFO administered intraperitoneally. The 
combined effect of DFO and 108-o on hepatocellular iron excretion was additive, 
and response at a dose range of 25 to 200 mg/kg was linear. In vitro studies in 
heart cells showed that DFO was more effective in heart cell iron mobilization 
than all PIH analogs studied. Response to joint chelation with DFO and PIH 
analogs was similar to an increase in the equivalent molar dose of DFO alone, 
rather than the sum of the separate effects of the PIH analog and DFO. This 
finding was most likely the result of iron transfer from PIH analogs to DFO, a 
conclusion supported directly by iron-shuttle experiments using fluorescent DFO. 
These findings provide a rationale for the combined, simultaneous use of 
iron-chelating drugs and may have useful, practical implications for designing 
novel strategies of iron chelation therapy.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2382
PMID: 12511418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2002 Dec;16(6):1381-96. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(02)00058-8.

Advance directives and life-sustaining treatment: a legal primer.

Basanta WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Southern Illinois University School of Law, 1150 Douglas Drive, Mailstop 
6804, Carbondale, IL 62901-6804, USA. basanta@siu.edu

Advanced directives are a natural extension of a patient's right to 
self-determination of what actions will be taken upon his or her body. As such, 
instructional advanced directives such as living wills and DNR orders represent 
important patient preferences that must be adhered to in the health care 
context. In addition, health care proxies provide the patient with an authority 
for decision making in the event of incapacity. Overall, advanced directives 
provide health care providers, patients, and patient families with control over 
the kinds of care they do and do not desire at the end of life. Understanding 
the legal status of these instruments will provide the physician with another 
tool to advocate effectively for the patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(02)00058-8
PMID: 12512173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Toxicol Pathol. 2002 Nov-Dec;30(6):705-13. doi: 10.1080/01926230290166797.

FasL deficiency enhances the development of tumors in p53+/- mice.

Embree-Ku M(1), Boekelheide K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA.

In the multistep process of tumor development, several events occur to transform 
cells from normal to malignant. Although p53 is one of the most commonly mutated 
genes in a wide variety of tumors, how other genes interact with p53 to 
transform cells is only just beginning to be understood. To study the effects of 
the interaction of the Fas system with p53 in tumor progression and development, 
mice with a targeted disruption of the p53 tumor supressor gene and a mutation 
in Fas ligand were bred. Organ weights, life expectancy, and tumor and tissue 
histology were assessed. Although spleen weights were drastically increased in 
FasL -/- p53 -/- mice, the FasL deficiency had no effect on life expectancy or 
the tumor spectrum of homozygous p53-deficient mice. The FasL deficiency reduced 
the median time to death from 12.1 months in FasL +/+ p53 +/- mice to 9.6 months 
in FasL -/- p53 +/- mice, and led to a shift in tumor spectrum from 
predominantly sarcomas (63%) when FasL was present to a large number of 
lymphomas (76%) in FasL -/- p53 +/- mice. Given the reduced life span and 
increased incidence of lymphoma in FasL -/- p53 +/- mice, these mice could be 
useful in carcinogenicity testing, particularly for understanding mechanisms of 
compounds that are nongenotoxic.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230290166797
PMID: 12512872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):24-32. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00008.

Obesity in adulthood and its consequences for life expectancy: a life-table 
analysis.

Peeters A(1), Barendregt JJ, Willekens F, Mackenbach JP, Al Mamun A, Bonneux L; 
NEDCOM, the Netherlands Epidemiology and Demography Compression of Morbidity 
Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. peeters@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):I44.

BACKGROUND: Overweight and obesity in adulthood are linked to an increased risk 
for death and disease. Their potential effect on life expectancy and premature 
death has not yet been described.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze reductions in life expectancy and increases in premature 
death associated with overweight and obesity at 40 years of age.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: The Framingham Heart Study with follow-up from 1948 to 1990.
PARTICIPANTS: 3457 Framingham Heart Study participants who were 30 to 49 years 
of age at baseline.
MEASUREMENTS: Mortality rates specific for age and body mass index group (normal 
weight, overweight, or obese at baseline) were derived within sex and smoking 
status strata. Life expectancy and the probability of death before 70 years of 
age were analyzed by using life tables.
RESULTS: Large decreases in life expectancy were associated with overweight and 
obesity. Forty-year-old female nonsmokers lost 3.3 years and 40-year-old male 
nonsmokers lost 3.1 years of life expectancy because of overweight. 
Forty-year-old female nonsmokers lost 7.1 years and 40-year-old male nonsmokers 
lost 5.8 years because of obesity. Obese female smokers lost 7.2 years and obese 
male smokers lost 6.7 years of life expectancy compared with normal-weight 
smokers. Obese female smokers lost 13.3 years and obese male smokers lost 13.7 
years compared with normal-weight nonsmokers. Body mass index at ages 30 to 49 
years predicted mortality after ages 50 to 69 years, even after adjustment for 
body mass index at age 50 to 69 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Obesity and overweight in adulthood are associated with large 
decreases in life expectancy and increases in early mortality. These decreases 
are similar to those seen with smoking. Obesity in adulthood is a powerful 
predictor of death at older ages. Because of the increasing prevalence of 
obesity, more efficient prevention and treatment should become high priorities 
in public health.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00008
PMID: 12513041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):77-8; author reply 77-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00023.

Survival in Academy Award-winning actors and actresses.

Staud R.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 May 15;134(10):955-62.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00023
PMID: 12513056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):77-8; author reply 77-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00024.

Survival in Academy Award-winning actors and actresses.

Miskie B, Near S, Hegele R.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2001 May 15;134(10):955-62.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00024
PMID: 12513057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):I44. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00004.

Summaries for patients. Overweight and obesity by middle age are associated with 
shortened lifespan.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Jan 7;138(1):24-32.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-1-200301070-00004
PMID: 12513064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Ann Surg Oncol. 2003 Jan-Feb;10(1):80-5. doi: 10.1245/aso.2003.04.010.

Adequacy of 1-cm distal margin after restorative rectal cancer resection with 
sharp mesorectal excision and preoperative combined-modality therapy.

Moore HG(1), Riedel E, Minsky BD, Saltz L, Paty P, Wong D, Cohen AM, Guillem JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2003 Aug;10(7):823-4.
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2003 Aug;10(7):824.

BACKGROUND: Preoperative combined-modality therapy (CMT) for rectal cancer 
allows a sphincter-sparing procedure in some individuals who would otherwise 
require an abdominoperineal resection. To further define the subset of rectal 
cancer patients suitable for this approach, we determined the adequacy of a 
distal margin of < or = 1 cm in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer 
requiring preoperative CMT.
METHODS: Ninety-four consecutive patients, status post curative low anterior 
resection for rectal cancer after preoperative CMT, were identified from the 
prospective Colorectal Service Database. Distal margin length, tumor grade, 
tumor-node-metastasis stage, presence of lymphovascular and perineural invasion, 
and tumor distance from the anal verge were examined for their effect on 
recurrence and survival. Median follow-up was 44 months.
RESULTS: Distal margin length ranged from.1 to 9.5 cm (median, 2.0 cm) and did 
not correlate with local recurrence (hazard ratio, 1.1; P =.34) or 
recurrence-free survival (hazard ratio, 1.1; P =.29) by univariate analysis. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of recurrence-free survival and local recurrence at 3 
years for the < or = 1 cm versus >1 cm and the < ore = 2 cm versus > 2 cm groups 
were not significantly different. Groups were well matched for other 
clinicopathologic variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that for patients with locally advanced rectal 
cancer undergoing resection and preoperative CMT, distal margins < or = 1 cm do 
not seem to compromise oncological outcome.

DOI: 10.1245/aso.2003.04.010
PMID: 12513965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Vasc Surg. 2003 Jan;37(1):86-90. doi: 10.1067/mva.2003.109.

Endoluminal repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm prevents enlargement of the 
proximal neck: a 9-year life-table and 5-year longitudinal study.

May J(1), White GH, Ly CN, Jones MA, Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia. 
vascsurg@med.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Endoluminal repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is predicated 
on stability of the proximal neck of the aneurysm. Reports on morphologic 
changes in the proximal neck after endoluminal repair of AAA have thus far been 
limited in duration to 3 years or less. The aim of this study was to document 
changes in diameter of the proximal neck of AAA in a group of patients who had 
undergone endoluminal repair between 5 and 9 years previously.
METHODS: Between May 1992 and December 1996, 61 patients with AAA were treated 
with endoluminal repair by the senior author. The following patients were 
excluded from the study group: those requiring primary conversion to open repair 
at the original operation (n = 8), those with false aneurysm (n = 1), and those 
with dissection in the proximal neck (n = 1). Fifty-one patients (48 men and 
three women) with a mean age of 71 years remained in the study group. The 
endoprostheses used were modified Parodi (n = 4), Endovascular Technologies (n = 
14), White-Yu (n = 10), Stentor/Vanguard (n = 21), and Bard 1996 prototype (n = 
2). Morphologic changes in the proximal aortic neck were studied with contrast 
computed tomographic scan with the methodology recommended by the Ad Hoc 
Committee for Standardized Reporting Practices for Endovascular AAA Repair 
(revised version). The maximum transverse diameter of the proximal neck was 
measured 1 cm below the most inferior renal artery. A Kaplan-Meier analysis was 
performed showing the proportion of patients at risk with a demonstrated 
enlargement of the neck at each interval of time compared with the predischarge 
computed tomographic scan. A longitudinal study of morphologic changes in the 
proximal aortic neck was also undertaken in 28 patients with successful 
endoluminal repair who survived 5 years.
RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier curve showed a probability of no dilatation of the 
proximal neck of 0.943 at 7 years after endoluminal AAA repair. Of 28 patients 
with 5 years of follow-up after discharge, only two had increases in the 
diameter of the proximal neck greater than 2 mm. The endograft in both patients 
had undergone migration before any proximal neck dilation. A paired t test 
showed that the overall average increase of 0.4 mm (standard error, 0.3 mm) in 
these 28 patients was not statistically significant (P =.23).
CONCLUSION: A high probability (0.943 at 7 years) exists of no enlargement of 
the proximal neck of AAA after endoluminal repair. We hypothesize that 
endografts positioned correctly immediately below the renal arteries protect the 
proximal neck from dilatation in a manner that does not occur after open repair 
of AAA.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2003.109
PMID: 12514582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. ASDC J Dent Child. 2002 May-Aug;69(2):156-60, 124.

Clinical performance and survival of space maintainers: evaluation over a period 
of 5 years.

Rajab LD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Jordan, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Pediatric 
Dentistry, Amman, Jordan.

The study investigated the clinical performance of 387 space maintainers fitted 
in 358 patients aged from 3 to 9 years in the Department of Pediatric Dentistry 
at the Faculty of Dentistry-University of Jordan from 1996 to 2000. Failure 
occurred in 119 appliances (30.7%), of which 49.6% were due to solder breakage, 
32.8% from cement loss, 11% from soft tissue lesions, 4.2% from eruption 
interference, and 2.5% were completely lost. By using the Kaplan-Meier method, 
the estimated median survival time for space maintainers was 18 months. Lingual 
arches had the lowest median survival time of 14 months. Bands and loops, Nance 
appliances, and removable partial dentures had similar probability of survival. 
Fixed bilateral mandibular appliances recorded lower survival time than fixed 
bilateral maxillary appliances. Gender, age, type of dentition, fixed vs. 
removable, year of placement of the appliance and number of space maintainers 
fitted simultaneously in the same patient had no significant effect on survival 
of the appliances.

PMID: 12515058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Nephrol. 2002 Nov-Dec;15 Suppl 6:S33-42.

Dialysis for everybody? At any cost?

Rombolà G(1).

Author information:
(1)Nephrology, Dialysis and Renal Transplant Unit, Niguarda Ca' Granda Hospital, 
Milano, Italy. ehbpgr@tin.it

During the last fifty years medicine has made enormous progress. However the 
"mechanical disease model" has introduced the concept of disease as a biological 
disorder and, at the same time, has shifted the objective of the doctor's 
action: the patient is identified with the disease and the latter being curable, 
there are no limits to the doctor's action. This behaviour has two different 
implications: one is referred to the tremendous increase of the expenditure and 
the second is related to the changes in death's physiognomy. Today death is no 
longer a moment, but a process whose practical outcome is the dilution (from 
hours to months) of the boundary between life and death. Equity is one of the 
main principles of every health systems: all the members of a community should 
have equal opportunities to receive medical treatment. Every year approximately 
1250 million Euros (2% of the total health expenditure) are spent in Italy for 
nearly 41,000 patients on chronic dialysis. In terms of macro economy and of 
balanced health policy, no ethical principles can justify the absorption of such 
a huge quantity of resources by such a small number of patients. We must 
establish some rules, but it is obvious that such rules cannot be based on the 
identification of criteria that exclude patient groups based on statistical 
parameters, and on the sum of risk factors. Viceversa, the exclusion and/or 
withdrawal from RRT must depend on the possibilities of individual patients to 
maintain the essential characteristics of human beings or on the patient's 
opinion that there is a lack of proportion between means and results. Doctors 
cannot presume that the best solution coincides with the extension of patients' 
life. Their assistance must not aim at mere survival neglecting the quality of 
life. In order to start an in depth discussion, solid ethical and methodological 
references can be found in the "Clinical Practice Guidelines on Shared 
Decision-Making in the Appropriate Initiation of and Withdrawal from Dialysis". 
This topic can no longer be postponed. Should the nephrological community be 
unable to find a shared basis for discussion beyond hypocrisy, the valuable 
doctor-patient relationship (which is vital for all medical procedures) will be 
replaced by the "taxpayer-mediated" approach. In this case, following the 
principles of social good, the political community will compel doctors to 
mediate a conflict between collective interests and individual interests, and 
doctors will no longer be able to act in compliance with the ethical principles 
of "avoiding harm".

PMID: 12515372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Mt Sinai J Med. 2003 Jan;70(1):3-22.

The biology of aging.

Troen BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Bronx Veterans Administration 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.

In humans, aging is inexorable. The progressive decrease in physiological 
capacity and the reduced ability to respond to environmental stresses lead to 
increased susceptibility and vulnerability to disease. Consequently, mortality 
due to all causes increases exponentially with aging. Attempts at understanding 
the causes of aging are limited by the complexity of the problem. Aging changes 
are manifest from the molecular to the organismic level; environmental factors 
affect experimental observations; secondary effects complicate elucidation of 
primary mechanisms; and precisely defined, easily measurable biomarkers are 
lacking. No one unifying theory may exist, since the mechanisms of aging could 
be quite distinct in different organisms, tissues, and cells. Evolutionary 
pressures have selected for successful reproduction, making it likely that the 
post-reproductive physiology of an organism (i.e., aging) is an epigenetic and 
pleiotropic manifestation of the optimization for early fitness. Indeed, 
antagonistic pleiotropy, wherein genes that enhance early survival and function 
but are disadvantageous later in life, may play an overriding role in aging. 
Theories of aging can be divided into two general categories: stochastic and 
developmental-genetic. These are not mutually exclusive, particularly when 
considering the free radical/mitochondrial DNA theory of aging. Increasing 
evidence suggests that cellular senescence and organismic aging are 
antagonistically pleiotropic manifestations of evolutionary pressures to prevent 
malignant transformation. In other words, aging may be the price we pay to avoid 
cancer. The beneficial paradox may be that the maximum lifespan potential of 
humans may have been achieved, in part, due to our ability to grow old.

PMID: 12516005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Przegl Lek. 2002;59(7):540-7.

[Acromegaly--do we already know everything about treatment of the somatotroph 
pituitary adenomas?].

[Article in Polish]

Zieliński G(1), Podgórski JK.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Neurochirurgii Centralnego Szpitala Klinicznego Wojskowej Akademii 
Medycznej im. Bolesława Szareckiego w Warszawie.

Acromegaly--do we already know everything about treatment of the somatotroph 
pituitary adenomas?--Acromegaly, an insidious neuroendocrine disorder, reduces 
life expectancy and leads to 3.5-fold increase in mortality. The main causes are 
cardiovascular, pulmonary and enhanced prevalence of deaths from malignancy. 
Successful therapy ought to normalize GH, IGF-I secretion, remove adenoma mass 
and its local pressure effects and preserve pituitary function to improve 
systemic morbidity and normalize mortality. The primary therapy for most 
patients with acromegaly caused by somatotroph pituitary adenoma is still 
transsphenoidal resection of the tumor. The results of the transsphenoidal 
surgery for pituitary adenoma for acromegaly depend on the volume of the tumor, 
its suprasellar and parasellar extension, especially to the cavernous sinus. The 
aim of this paper was to present the diagnostic criteria and principle therapy 
in these tumors. Our experience was based on the analysis of more than 150 
patients operated on during the last five years and review of the literature.

PMID: 12516247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Aust Fam Physician. 2002 Dec;31(12):1116-8.

Longevity: does what goes up always have to come down?

Hassed C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria.

PMID: 12516515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2002 Oct;8(4):375-9. doi:
10.1177/107602960200800410.

Simultaneous deep venous thrombosis and acquired factor VIII inhibitor.

Deitcher SR(1), Carman TL, Kottke-Marchant K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 
Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. deitchs@ccf.org

Acquired hemophilia A is a life-threatening immune-mediated hemorrhagic disorder 
that is most often found in individuals older than 50 who present with an 
unexplained activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) prolongation and 
clinically significant bleeding. The prolonged aPTT associated with acquired 
hemophilia A reflects factor VIII activity deficiency due to neutralizing or 
clearing autoantibodies. Deep venous thrombosis, in contrast, is a 
veno-occlusive disorder associated with several distinct hypercoagulable states 
that can result in significant morbidity and mortality due to pulmonary 
embolism, thrombus extension, and the post-thrombotic syndrome. A prolonged aPTT 
in the setting of thrombosis may reflect the presence of a lupus anticoagulant. 
In the absence of accurate diagnosis and the immediate institution of specific 
therapy, both disorders can be fatal. Three cases of acquired factor VIII 
inhibitors that included a prolonged aPTT, bleeding, and duplex ultrasound 
evidence of deep venous thrombosis are presented. The diagnostic and therapeutic 
challenges posed by these cases as well as a proposed mechanism by which 
pathologic thrombosis can develop in a patient with a life-threatening bleeding 
disorder are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/107602960200800410
PMID: 12516688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Vet Clin North Am Equine Pract. 2002 Dec;18(3):403-9, v. doi: 
10.1016/s0749-0739(02)00022-6.

Anesthetic considerations of the older equine.

Matthews NS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Small Animal Medicine and Surgery, Texas A & M 
University, College Station, TX 77843-4474, USA. nmatthews@cvm.tamu.edu

This article briefly reviews physiologic changes that may occur with aging in 
equine patients. It summarizes anesthetic protocols and problems encountered in 
a group of older horses (> 20 years old) anesthetized over the previous 10 years 
in the teaching hospital and makes recommendations for appropriate management of 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0739(02)00022-6
PMID: 12516925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):187-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.289.2.187.

Years of life lost due to obesity.

Fontaine KR(1), Redden DT, Wang C, Westfall AO, Allison DB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Md, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):229-30.
    JAMA. 2003 Apr 9;289(14):1777; author reply 1777-8.
    JAMA. 2003 Apr 9;289(14):1777; author reply 1777-8.
    JAMA. 2003 Jun 11;289(22):2941; author reply 2941-2.

CONTEXT: Public health officials and organizations have disseminated health 
messages regarding the dangers of obesity, but these have not produced the 
desired effect.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the expected number of years of life lost (YLL) due to 
overweight and obesity across the life span of an adult.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND SUBJECTS: Data from the (1) US Life Tables (1999); (2) 
Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III; 1988-1994); 
and (3) First National Health and Nutrition Epidemiologic Follow-up Study 
(NHANES I and II; 1971-1992) and NHANES II Mortality Study (1976-1992) were used 
to derive YLL estimates for adults aged 18 to 85 years. Body mass index (BMI) 
integer-defined categories were used (ie, <17; 17 to <18; 18 to <19; 20 to <21; 
21 to 45; or > or =45). A BMI of 24 was used as the reference category.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The difference between the number of years of life 
expected if an individual were obese vs not obese, which was designated YLL.
RESULTS: Marked race and sex differences were observed in estimated YLL. Among 
whites, a J- or U-shaped association was found between overweight or obesity and 
YLL. The optimal BMI (associated with the least YLL or greatest longevity) is 
approximately 23 to 25 for whites and 23 to 30 for blacks. For any given degree 
of overweight, younger adults generally had greater YLL than did older adults. 
The maximum YLL for white men aged 20 to 30 years with a severe level of obesity 
(BMI >45) is 13 and is 8 for white women. For men, this could represent a 22% 
reduction in expected remaining life span. Among black men and black women older 
than 60 years, overweight and moderate obesity were generally not associated 
with an increased YLL and only severe obesity resulted in YLL. However, blacks 
at younger ages with severe levels of obesity had a maximum YLL of 20 for men 
and 5 for women.
CONCLUSION: Obesity appears to lessen life expectancy markedly, especially among 
younger adults.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.2.187
PMID: 12517229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):229-30. doi: 10.1001/jama.289.2.229.

Obesity in the United States: a fresh look at its high toll.

Manson JE, Bassuk SS.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):187-93.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.2.229
PMID: 12517236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Gastrointest Endosc. 2003 Jan;57(1):23-9. doi: 10.1067/mge.2003.28.

Cost-effectiveness of pancreatic cancer screening in familial pancreatic cancer 
kindreds.

Rulyak SJ(1), Kimmey MB, Veenstra DL, Brentnall TA.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Division of Gastroenterology, Department of 
Pharmacy, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic screening of families predisposed to pancreatic cancer is 
increasingly used, but the cost-effectiveness of screening is unknown.
METHODS: A decision analysis was used to compare one-time screening for 
pancreatic dysplasia with EUS to no screening in a hypothetical cohort of 100 
members of familial pancreatic cancer kindreds. Abnormal EUS findings are 
confirmed with ERCP and patients with abnormal findings are candidates for total 
pancreatectomy. Lifetime medical care costs and life expectancy were modeled, 
and the main analysis was conducted from the third-party payer perspective. The 
base-case analysis assumed a 20% prevalence of pancreatic dysplasia and 90% 
sensitivity of EUS and ERCP.
RESULTS: Endoscopic screening was cost-effective, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $16,885/life-year saved. Screening was more 
cost-effective as the probability of dysplasia increased and as the sensitivity 
of EUS and ERCP increased. Screening remained cost-effective if the prevalence 
of dysplasia was greater than 16% or if the sensitivity of EUS was greater than 
84%. Procedure costs had a limited impact on cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic screening of carefully selected members of familial 
pancreatic cancer kindreds appears to increase patient life expectancy in a 
cost-effective manner. Screening should be performed in centers that have 
experience with endoscopic screening for pancreatic dysplasia. The 
cost-effectiveness of repeated screening remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1067/mge.2003.28
PMID: 12518126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Clin Exp Obstet Gynecol. 2002;29(3):197-206.

Human fetal adrenal transplant: a possible role in relieving intractable pain in 
advanced rheumatoid arthritis.

Bhattacharya N(1), Chhetri MK, Mukherjee KL, Das SP, Mukherjee A, Bhattacharya 
M, Bhattacharya S.

Author information:
(1)Bijoygarh State Hospital, Calcutta, India.

BACKGROUND: The art of transplant surgery has gone a long way in establishing 
itself as an important discipline in medicine with the support of molecular 
biology, immunology, biochemistry, etc., as the ultimate treatment for the 
restoration of function of a failing organ. With the progressive increase in the 
life expectancy of human beings, there is an increasing discrepancy in the 
demand and supply of organ grafts. A less efficient alternative could be 
synthetic or mechanical grafts. Nucleated cell therapy, that is, cellular 
transplant, is a promising new area of study with its proven efficacy in 
neuro-degenerative disorders, hematopoietic disorders, diabetes and 
trauma-induced tissue loss, to name a few. Human fetal cell/tissue with its 
intrinsic hypo-antigenic advantage (up to 20 weeks of study), could be an 
interesting area of cellular/tissue transplant. Our research group has earlier 
reported on the safe use of umbilical cord whole blood and the successful 
transplant of a human fetal lung, heart, pancreas, liver, thymus, in an 
artificially prepared vascular subcutaneous axillary fold in which there was no 
feature of hyper-acute, acute or chronic rejection of the graft in HLA- and 
sex-randomized adult recipients, without concomitant immunosuppressives or 
radiation of the host to potentiate the survival of the fetal graft (within 20 
weeks of gestation) within the lowest observation period of one month. The 
present study was aimed at examining the role of developing fetal adrenal 
transplants for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and severe pain due to 
involvement of inflammatory and neuropathic components.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: Ten cases were enrolled in the present study after 
thorough informed consent and approval by the ethical committee of the 
institute. The age of the patients varied from 50 to 76 years and the group was 
comprised of three males and seven females. The age of the adrenal grafts varied 
from 16 to 20 weeks and these were collected from mothers admitted for 
hysterotomy and ligation. These long-standing rheumatoid patients (suffering for 
five to 15 years), presented with at least four of the seven 1987 revised 
criteria of the American College of Rheumatology for diagnosis of rheumatoid 
arthritis. A 2.5 cm long and 2 cm deep tissue space was dissected and prepared 
in each transplant recipient at the axilla using diathermy and knife after 
infiltrating the site with one percent lignocaine solution. The tissue collected 
from the consenting mother undergoing hysterotomy and ligation was inserted into 
this site, and the site was closed with 00 atraumatic vicryl. All necessary pre- 
and postoperative surgical precautions were taken to prevent infections. 
Sequential total count and differential count of leucocytes were undertaken to 
analyze the impact of the transplant on the host. After one month, a part of the 
transplanted fetal tissue was recovered for histological staining to examine 
whether there was any graft versus host reaction.
RESULTS AND ANALYSIS: All ten patients tolerated the transplant procedure well. 
There was no fever, intractable pain or any other specific serious side-effect 
which could justify the removal of the transplant before one month. There was no 
discharge from the incision site and the healing of the scar was by and large 
normal. There was no unusual leucocytosis, lymphocytosis and the retrieved graft 
tissue did not suggest transplant rejection. However, there was definite pain 
relief, reduction in swelling and improvement of mobility of varying degree in a 
majority of the patients which was perceivable from the 15th day onwards. There 
was also a sense of well being (in 80%) and a gain in weight of three pounds or 
more (in 70%) among the fetal transplant recipients.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: To understand the underlying mechanism, in case of 
pregnancy immunotolerance, we are of the opinion that emphasis should be placed 
on the role of non-specific and non-cytopathic blocking antibodies produced 
during pregnancy. The hypo-antigenicity of the developing human fetal system may 
possibly contribute to the production of this blocking antibody during 
pregnancy, and thus may play a role in the lack of recognition by the host's HLA 
system. This behaviour of the developing human fetal tissue provides some 
advantages over adult tissue for fetal cell/tissue transplantation purposes. The 
relief of pain, inflammation and restoration of mobility may be due to the 
effect of the transplanted adrenal graft, with the medullary component 
contributing to endorphin-like substance liberation and the cortical component 
contributing to glucocorticoid synthesis.

PMID: 12519043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Diabet Med. 2003 Jan;20(1):58-63. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2003.00872.x.

Long-term outcome after gastrectomy for intractable diabetic gastroparesis.

Watkins PJ(1), Buxton-Thomas MS, Howard ER.

Author information:
(1)King's Diabetes Centre, King's College Hospital, London, UK. 
peter.watkins1@virgin.net

AIMS: To examine the long-term outlook for patients with intractable vomiting 
from diabetic gastroparesis who underwent major gastric surgery.
METHODS: Of 18 patients with problems from vomiting referred to the King's 
Diabetes Centre during the years 1994-2000, seven were considered to suffer 
irreversible symptoms not alleviated by protracted periods of medical treatment. 
They were all Type 1 Caucasian diabetic women, mean age 32 years (range 28-37 
years) with multiple symptoms of severe autonomic neuropathy. They underwent 
major gastric surgery comprising 70% gastric resection including pylorus and 
antrum, with a 60-cm Roux-en-Y loop of jejunum to prevent reflux gastritis.
RESULTS: The vomiting was relieved in six of the seven patients almost 
immediately after surgery and during review up to more than 6 years 
post-operatively. There have been no serious relapses, resulting in considerable 
improvement in quality of life. Unfortunately, three of the patients developed 
renal failure, two of them needing renal support treatments 2 and 3 years after 
successful gastrectomy. One patient died suddenly 5 months after successful 
surgery and one 3 months after starting dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Major gastric surgery can, after careful patient selection, 
effectively relieve distressing vomiting from severe gastroparesis and give a 
greatly improved quality of life to a small group of seriously disadvantaged 
patients where risk of subsequent renal failure is high and where life 
expectancy is poor.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2003.00872.x
PMID: 12519321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Am J Cardiol. 2003 Jan 15;91(2):121-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(02)03095-3.

Predictors of cardiac and noncardiac mortality among 14,697 patients with 
coronary heart disease.

Dankner R(1), Goldbourt U, Boyko V, Reicher-Reiss H.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Cardiovascular Epidemiology, The Gertner Institute for Epidemiology 
and Health Policy Research, Tel Hashomer, Israel. racheld@gertner.health.gov.il

The decrease in mortality from ischemic heart disease during the last 25 years 
may partly reflect improvement in diagnosis and treatment of patients with 
coronary heart disease. These patients, therefore, are experiencing morbidity 
and mortality due to other causes. The aim of our study was to describe the 
incidence and causes of cardiac mortality (CM) and noncardiac mortality (NCM) 
and to identify predictive factors. A cohort of 14,697 patients with coronary 
heart disease was merged with the Central Population Registry to identify 
mortality records from 1990 to 1996. Among the 1,839 deaths, 1,055 (57.4%) were 
cardiac, 626 (34.0%) were noncardiac, and 158 deaths (8.6%) were due to unknown 
causes as classified in the International Classification of Diseases-Ninth 
Edition (ICD). The 3 most significant predictors were age for a 10-year 
increment (odds ratios 1.75 and 2.25 for CM and NCM, respectively), chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (odds ratios 1.67 and 1.71), and current smoking 
(odds ratios 1.29 and 1.66). A history of cancer was a predictor of NCM, but not 
of CM, whereas peripheral vascular disease predicted CM but not NCM. As the 
number of predictive factors increased from none to >or=5, the risk of NCM 
gradually increased from 1.9% to 15.5%. Similar predictors expose subjects with 
coronary disease to CM and NCM, but smoking plays a more pronounced role in the 
prediction of NCM, whereas past myocardial infarction, lower levels of 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and peripheral vascular disease are mainly 
associated with CM. Because of the similarity of antecedent predictors, 
treatment of risk factors among patients with coronary heart disease should 
prove valuable for the prevention of all-cause mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(02)03095-3
PMID: 12521620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Am J Cardiol. 2003 Jan 15;91(2):245-8. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(02)03119-3.

Neurohormonal prediction of mortality following admission for decompensated 
heart failure.

Aronson D(1), Burger AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Rambam Medical Center, Haifa, Israel.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(02)03119-3
PMID: 12521645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Blood. 2003 May 1;101(9):3407-12. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-05-1597. Epub 2003
Jan  9.

Gamma-delta T-cell phenotype is associated with significantly decreased survival 
in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

Toro JR(1), Liewehr DJ, Pabby N, Sorbara L, Raffeld M, Steinberg SM, Jaffe ES.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, 
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-7231, USA. torojo@exchange.nih.gov

The importance of alpha beta versus gamma delta T-cell subset antigen expression 
in the classification of peripheral T-cell lymphomas is still unclear. The 
objective of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of T-cell 
receptor-delta 1 (TCR delta 1) expression in primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. 
TCR delta 1 cellular expression was assessed in skin biopsy specimens of 104 
individuals with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma by immunohistochemistry. Both 
univariate (Kaplan-Meier) and multivariate (Cox regression) analyses were 
conducted to determine which variables (T-cell subtype, hemophagocytosis, 
histologic profile, age, sex, and adenopathy) were significantly associated with 
survival. Univariate analysis indicated that there was a statistically 
significant difference in survival between the patients with alpha beta 
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and patients with gamma delta cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma (P <.0001). There was also a statistically significant decrease in 
survival among patients who had subcutaneous involvement compared with patients 
who had epidermotropic and/or dermal involvement (P <.0001). Cox model analysis 
indicated that TCR delta 1 expression was the factor that was most closely 
associated with decreased survival (P <.0001). Among those patients with 
cutaneous gamma delta T-cell lymphoma (n = 33), there was a trend for decreased 
survival for patients who had histologic evidence of subcutaneous fat 
involvement in comparison with patients who had epidermotropic or dermal 
patterns of infiltration (P =.067). No other prognostic factors were identified 
as having a notable association with outcome in this subgroup. TCR delta 1 
expression in primary cutaneous lymphomas is an independent prognostic factor 
