associated with decreased survival.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-05-1597
PMID: 12522013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Can J Gastroenterol. 2002 Dec;16(12):869-72. doi: 10.1155/2002/525819.

Funding the new biologics--public policy issues in drug formulary decision 
making.

Lewis S(1).

Author information:
(1)Access Consulting Ltd, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. Steven.Lewis@shaw.ca

One function of drug formularies is to allow health care providers to exert some 
control over spending. Decisions about whether to include a given medication in 
a formulary are based on estimates of its costs and effectiveness, relative to 
other treatment strategies. These decisions are made from a societal 
perspective, as opposed to that of individual patients, which sometimes results 
in conflicts. The clinical response to a medication often varies widely among 
subjects, which means that a small subgroup of patients might benefit 
dramatically, while others with the same disease do not. The result would be 
that a drug might appear not to be cost effective in an economic analysis, even 
though it is of proven value for some patients. New and innovative medications 
are assessed according to high standards of cost effectiveness, even though 
established treatments are wasteful of valuable health care resources. Moreover, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) discriminate against certain patient groups, 
including those with diseases that are associated with a high morbidity but a 
low mortality. Such patients often incur high indirect costs, including loss of 
employment income and costs incurred by family caregivers that QALYs do not 
reflect. Therefore, even though QALYs are transparent and widely applicable, 
they are not necessarily appropriate in the evaluation of a particular 
therapeutic intervention. A new paradigm should be developed for evaluating 
emerging therapies. An example would be a risk-sharing approach, whereby the 
pharmaceutical industry and public insurers share in the costs and rewards of 
introducing new treatments. This would have implications for the prices charged 
for new medications.

DOI: 10.1155/2002/525819
PMID: 12522478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Can J Gastroenterol. 2002 Dec;16(12):873-6. doi: 10.1155/2002/164302.

Funding the new biologics--a health economic critique of the CCOHTA report: 
infliximab for the treatment of Crohn's disease.

Mitton CR(1); Canadian Coordinating Office for Health Technology Assessment.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Policy Studies (CHAPS), University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada. crmitton@ucalgary.ca

The report of the Canadian Coordinating Office for Health Technology Assessment 
(CCOHTA) on the use of infliximab in the treatment of refractory Crohn's disease 
stated that the medication did not meet 'conventional standards of 
cost-effectiveness'. It had several methodological weaknesses, however, 
including the derivation of the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained and 
the interpretation of the incremental cost utility ratios (ICURs). The validity 
of economic analyses is highly dependent on the underlying assumptions that are 
made about the implications of health care states and treatments. The authors of 
the report mapped utilities from three health states, taken from an American 
study, onto the nine health states that were considered in their economic 
analysis. The QALYs that were derived might not have been sensitive to small 
changes in health outcomes. Moreover, the indirect costs of Crohn's disease and 
its complications were ignored. Therefore, it is possible that the benefits of 
infliximab therapy were underestimated. The high ICURs that were quoted in the 
report do not necessarily mean that infliximab is not valuable, because 
opportunity costs were not considered. Instead of calculating the ICUR, a 
preferable approach would be to determine the benefit of this therapy, compared 
with that which could be derived from alternative uses of the same amount of 
health care resources. A 'balance sheet' approach would allow decision-makers to 
determine whether the additional cost of infliximab therapy would be justified 
by the health care gains that it produces. It is inappropriate to assign an 
arbitrary cut-off point to cost effectiveness, as defined by ICURs, especially 
when considering new and expensive treatments for severely ill patients who have 
few other therapeutic alternatives. Because only a small number of patients 
would require infliximab, the overall expenditure that would be required to make 
it available may be manageable.

DOI: 10.1155/2002/164302
PMID: 12522479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Ann Vasc Surg. 2003 Jan;17(1):22-6. doi: 10.1007/s10016-001-0342-y. Epub
2003  Jan 15.

Surgical treatment of coronary subclavian steal syndrome with carotid subclavian 
bypass.

Paty PS(1), Mehta M, Darling RC 3rd, Kreienberg PB, Chang BB, Roddy SP, Ozsyath 
KJ, Shah DM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Vascular Health and Disease, Albany Medical College, Albany 
12208, NY, USA.

Coronary subclavian steal syndrome (CSS) results from proximal subclavian artery 
occlusive disease causing reversal of flow in an internal mammary artery used as 
conduit for coronary artery bypass leading to myocardial ischemia. Although 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent (PTAS) for subclavian lesions 
has been successful, it is not always feasible. In this study, the results of 
carotid subclavian bypass (CSB) for symptomatic CSS due to subclavian occlusion 
and stenosis not amenable to PTAS were analyzed. The records of patients 
undergoing CSB for CSS between 1991 and 2001 were reviewed. Patients with 
lesions not amenable to angioplasty or stent were selected for CSB. Degree of 
preoperative myocardial ischemia was stratified according to New York Heart 
Association classification. Graft patency was analyzed by life-table methods. 
Our results showed that CSB for treatment of symptomatic CSS can be performed 
safely with excellent mid-term durability. In the setting of proximal subclavian 
artery disease not amenable to PTAS, CSB provides an acceptable means of 
treatment for symptomatic CSS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-001-0342-y
PMID: 12522706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Ugeskr Laeger. 2002 Nov 25;164(48):5640-3.

[Survival of children born with cerebral palsy. Children born 1971-1986].

[Article in Danish]

Nielsen JD(1), Uldall PV, Rasmussen S, Topp MW.

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, Cerebral Parese Registret. 
dettmann@dadlnet.dk

INTRODUCTION: Since 1967, children with cerebral palsy in Eastern Denmark have 
been registered in the Danish Cerebral Palsy Registry. We wanted to investigate 
the survival of Danish patients with cerebral palsy and examine different 
factors that influence on survival. We also compared the survival rate with that 
of the background population.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All patients in the Cerebral Palsy Register, born between 
1971 and 1986, were included in our study cohort. We examined the influence of 
the following factors on the survival of persons with cerebral palsy: sex, 
epilepsy, type of cerebral palsy, mental retardation, functional disability, 
birth year, and birth weight. Each factor was tested with Cox regression.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven of the 1093 persons included (7%), died before September 
1997. Our study showed that survival was associated with the type of cerebral 
palsy, epilepsy, mental retardation, and the degree of functional disability. 
Surprisingly, birth year and birth weight had no influence on survival. Persons 
with cerebral palsy had a lower survival rate than the background population. 
However, there was no significant difference between cerebral palsy persons with 
walking abilities, and the background population.
DISCUSSION: Compared to earlier studies, the survival rate seems to have 
improved. The Danish cerebral palsy patients had a survival as good as, and 
maybe even better, than that of cerebral palsy patients from other countries. 
Persons with low functional disabilities had a survival rate comparable to that 
of the background population, a finding that may be relevant in regard to life 
insurance.

PMID: 12523010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2002 Nov 20;122(28):2719-22.

[Health economics--short introduction to cost-benefit analyses].

[Article in Norwegian]

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)Nasjonalt folkehelseinstitutt Postboks 4404 Nydalen 0403 Oslo. 
erik.nord@fhi.no

PMID: 12523094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Arch Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;121(1):115-6. doi: 10.1001/archopht.121.1.115.

Economic analysis in eye disease.

Lee P, Zhang P.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;121(1):108-12.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.121.1.115
PMID: 12523895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. JAMA. 2003 Jan 15;289(3):313-22. doi: 10.1001/jama.289.3.313.

Lung cancer screening with helical computed tomography in older adult smokers: a 
decision and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Mahadevia PJ(1), Fleisher LA, Frick KD, Eng J, Goodman SN, Powe NR.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, Johns Hopkins School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Md, USA. Mahadevia@medtap.com

Comment in
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 15;289(3):357-8.
    JAMA. 2003 May 14;289(18):2357; author reply 2358-9.
    JAMA. 2003 May 14;289(18):2357; author reply 2358-9.
    JAMA. 2003 May 14;289(18):2358; author reply 2358-9.

CONTEXT: Encouraged by direct-to-consumer marketing, smokers and their 
physicians are contemplating lung cancer screening with a promising but unproven 
imaging procedure, helical computed tomography (CT).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the potential benefits, harms, and cost-effectiveness of 
lung cancer screening with helical CT in various efficacy scenarios.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION: Using a computer-simulated model, we compared 
annual helical CT screening to no screening for hypothetical cohorts of 100 000 
current, quitting, and former heavy smokers, aged 60 years, of whom 55% were 
men. We simulated efficacy by changing the clinical stage distribution of lung 
cancers so that the screened group would have fewer advanced-stage cancers and 
more localized-stage cancers than the nonscreened group (ie, a stage shift). Our 
model incorporated known biases in screening programs such as lead time, length, 
and overdiagnosis bias.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We measured the benefits of screening by comparing the 
absolute and relative difference in lung cancer-specific deaths. We measured 
harms by the number of false-positive invasive tests or surgeries per 100 000 
and incremental cost-effectiveness in US dollars per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Over a 20-year period, assuming a 50% stage shift, the current heavy 
smoker cohort had 553 fewer lung cancer deaths (13% lung cancer-specific 
mortality reduction) and 1186 false-positive invasive procedures per 100 000 
persons. The incremental cost-effectiveness for current smokers was $116 300 per 
QALY gained. For quitting and former smokers, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
was $558 600 and $2 322 700 per QALY gained, respectively. Other than the degree 
of stage shift, the most influential parameters were adherence to screening, 
degree of length or overdiagnosis bias in the first year of screening, quality 
of life of persons with screen-detected localized lung cancers, cost of helical 
CT, and anxiety about indeterminate nodule diagnoses. In 1-way sensitivity 
analyses, none of these parameters was sufficient to make screening highly 
cost-effective for any of the cohorts. In multiway sensitivity analyses, a 
program screening current smokers was $42 500 per QALY gained if extremely 
favorable estimates were used for all of the influential parameters 
simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: Even if efficacy is eventually proven, screening must overcome 
multiple additional barriers to be highly cost-effective. Given the current 
uncertainty of benefits, the harms from invasive testing, and the high costs 
associated with screening, direct-to-consumer marketing of helical CT is not 
advisable.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.3.313
PMID: 12525232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2003 Jan;26(1):1-7. doi:
10.1016/s0210-5705(03)70332-x.

[Expression and clinical significance of collagenase-3 (MMP-13) in gastric 
cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

del Casar Lizcano JM(1), Vizoso Piñeiro F, González Sánchez LO, Martín Suárez A, 
Gava R, Cuesta Fernández E, Díez Santisteban MC.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General. Hospital de Jove. Gijón. Oviedo. España.

BACKGROUND: MMP-13 (collagenase-3) is a metalloproteinase with potent 
degradative activity against a variety of elements of the extracellular matrix. 
Its expression has been described in some human carcinomas, where it seems to 
play a role in tumor progression and metastasis. The objective of this study was 
to investigate the expression and clinical significance of MMP-13 in gastric 
carcinomas.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: MMP-13 expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in 
resected specimens from 44 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma. The mean ( 
standard error) follow-up period was 21.4 3.2 months.
RESULTS: A total of 14 gastric carcinomas (31.8%) showed positive immunostaining 
for MMP-13. The percentage of MMP-13-positive tumors was significantly (p = 
0.009) higher in stage IV carcinomas (69.2%) than in lower stages (I: 22.2%; II: 
12.5%; and III: 14.3%), as well as in nonresectable tumors (R1 and R2) (61.5%) 
than in resectable carcinomas (R0) (19.4%) (p = 0.017). Likewise, MMP-13 tumor 
expression was significantly associated with shortened overall survival in both 
the entire group of patients (p = 0.0006) and in the subgroup of patients with 
resectable tumors (p = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that, in patients harboring gastric 
adenocarcinoma, MMP-13 tumor expression is associated with higher tumor 
aggressiveness and a poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-5705(03)70332-x
PMID: 12525320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Ann Rheum Dis. 2003 Feb;62(2):151-8. doi: 10.1136/ard.62.2.151.

Osteoarthritis of finger joints in Finns aged 30 or over: prevalence, 
determinants, and association with mortality.

Haara MM(1), Manninen P, Kröger H, Arokoski JP, Kärkkäinen A, Knekt P, Aromaa A, 
Heliövaara M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and General Practice University of Kuopio, 
Finland. mhaara@hytti.uku.fi

Comment in
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2003 May;62(5):495.
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2003 Oct;62(10):1029; author reply 1029.

BACKGROUND: Prevalence and risk factors of osteoarthritis (OA) in finger joints 
have been amply explored in previous studies. However, no study has focused on 
finger joint OA as a predictor of mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate finger joint OA for its associations with alleged risk 
factors and with life expectancy in an extensive health survey.
METHODS: From 1978 to 1980 a representative population sample of 8000 Finns aged 
30 years or over was invited to participate in a comprehensive health 
examination; 90% accepted. Hand radiographs were taken from 3595 subjects. By 
the end of 1994, 897 of these had died.
RESULTS: The prevalence of OA of Kellgren's grade 2 to 4 in any finger joint and 
in at least two symmetrical pairs of distal interphalangeal joints (DIPs) was 
44.8% and 16.0%, respectively. Age and body mass index were significant 
determinants for OA both in any finger joint and in symmetrical DIP OA. The 
history of physical workload in women showed a positive association with OA in 
any finger joint. Smoking in men seemed to protect against symmetrical DIP OA. 
As adjusted for the determinants above, symmetrical DIP OA predicted mortality 
in women (relative risk (RR), 1.23; 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.01 to 
1.51), but not in men (RR 0.89; 95% CI 0.68 to 1.16). In men, however, OA in any 
finger joint significantly predicted cardiovascular deaths (RR 1.42; 95% CI 1.05 
to 1.92).
CONCLUSION: OA in any finger joint and symmetrical DIP OA have different risk 
factor profiles and predict mortality in different patterns between men and 
women.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.62.2.151
PMCID: PMC1754437
PMID: 12525385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2003 Jan;14(1):53-62.

Pretreatment imaging workup for patients with intermittent claudication: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Visser K(1), Kuntz KM, Donaldson MC, Gazelle GS, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Program for the Assessment of Radiological Technology Program, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus MC University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. k.visser@epib.fgg.eur.nl

PURPOSE: To determine the optimal imaging strategy in pretreatment workup of 
patients with intermittent claudication with use of noninvasive imaging 
modalities and intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic model that considered test 
characteristics such as sensitivity, complications induced by the test, 
implications of missing lesions, and the consequences of overtreating patients, 
was developed to evaluate the societal cost-effectiveness (CE) of magnetic 
resonance (MR) angiography, duplex ultrasonography (US), and DSA. Our main 
outcome measures were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), lifetime costs (in 
dollars), and incremental CE ratios. The base-case analysis considered a cohort 
of 60-year old male patients without a history of coronary artery disease who 
presented with severe claudication to undergo pretreatment imaging workup.
RESULTS: The range in effectiveness and lifetime costs among different 
diagnostic workup strategies was small (largest difference in effectiveness: 
0.025 QALYs; largest difference in lifetime costs: $1,800). If treatment was 
limited to angioplasty in patients with suitable lesions, MR angiography had an 
incremental CE ratio of $35,000 per QALY compared with no diagnostic workup, and 
DSA had an incremental CE ratio of $471,000 per QALY compared with MR 
angiography. If treatment options included both angioplasty and bypass surgery, 
DSA had an incremental CE ratio of $179,000 per QALY compared with no diagnostic 
workup, and MR angiography and duplex US were less effective and more costly.
CONCLUSIONS: The differences in costs and effectiveness among diagnostic imaging 
strategies for patients with intermittent claudication are slight and MR 
angiography or duplex US can replace DSA without substantial loss in 
effectiveness and with a slight cost reduction.

PMID: 12525586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Breast Cancer. 2003;10(1):54-62. doi: 10.1007/BF02967626.

Estimation of individualized probabilities of developing breast cancer for 
Japanese women.

Ueda K(1), Tsukuma H, Tanaka H, Ajiki W, Oshima A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Control and Statistics, Osaka Medical Center for Cancer 
and Cardiovascular Diseases, Japan. kueda@xb4.so-net.ne.jp

BACKGROUND: Projecting individualized probabilities of developing breast cancer 
is needed for counseling and chemoprevention for Japanese women, in whom breast 
cancer incidence has been rapidly increasing.
METHODS: We calculated individualized probabilities of developing breast cancer 
within 10-20 years and until life expectancy for Japanese women by multiplying 
the relative risk for each risk factor combination by the cumulative risk for 
the reference group. The risk factors used were age at menarche, age at first 
delivery, family history of breast cancer, and body mass index (BMI) (in 
post-menopausal women). The relative risk by menopausal status for each risk 
factor combination was estimated from a case control study conducted at Osaka 
Medical Center for Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases (OMCC), Japan. The 
cumulative risk of breast cancer for the reference group within 10-20 years and 
until life expectancy was estimated to divide the corresponding cumulative risk 
for Japanese women by the weighted average of the relative risk. The weight is 
an expected proportion of those who have each risk factor combination among the 
general population. The cumulative risk for Japanese women was estimated using a 
data file from the Osaka Cancer Registry (OCR).
RESULTS: We obtained cumulative risks for any age women within a certain range 
according to various risk factor combinations by menopausal state. For example, 
the highest risk group had about a 5 times higher risk probability of developing 
breast cancer than the general population at initial age 40, within 10-20 years, 
and until life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The cumulative risk of breast cancer varied according to 
individuals' risk factors among Japanese women. The availability of concrete 
individualized risk estimation figures will be of use to health care providers 
in encouraging Japanese women to seek counseling and to adopt self-control of 
body weight as a primary preventive measure, as well as to have breast cancer 
screening.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02967626
PMID: 12525764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Med J Aust. 2003 Jan 20;178(2):82-5. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05070.x.

Management of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in remote-dwelling Aboriginals 
and Torres Strait Islanders: an update for primary healthcare providers.

Fisher DA(1), Huffam SE.

Author information:
(1)Royal Darwin Hospital, PO Box 41326, Casuarina, NT 0811, Australia. 
dale.fisher@nt.gov.au

Chronic HBV infection is common in remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
communities, where resources are scarce and patients may have several concurrent 
illnesses. The management of chronic HBV infection has changed over recent 
years, with greater application of serological and radiological investigations 
and new, more acceptable treatments for chronic liver disease, cirrhosis and 
hepatocellular carcinoma. Optimal follow-up procedures for patients with chronic 
HBV infection are still being debated, but may not be applicable to Aboriginal 
and Torres Strait Islander communities where factors such as endemicity, 
remoteness, frequent comorbidities, shorter life expectancy and cultural 
differences in health priorities must be taken into consideration. We have 
defined an algorithm to assist primary care providers caring for patients with 
chronic HBV infection in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. 
Patients are divided into one of three categories for follow-up and referral 
based on clinical features, and results of liver enzyme and serological tests.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05070.x
PMID: 12526729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int J Oncol. 2003 Feb;22(2):391-7.

Tie2/Tek expression in breast carcinoma: correlations of immunohistochemical 
assays and long-term follow-up in a series of 909 patients.

Dales JP(1), Garcia S, Bonnier P, Duffaud F, Meunier-Carpentier S, Andrac-Meyer 
L, Lavaut MN, Allasia C, Charpin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Nord, Marseilles, France.

The degree of angiogenesis in breast cancer has previously been shown to be an 
indicator of prognosis, and tumor microvasculature is at present a candidate 
target for new antiangiogenic therapies. Tie2/tek receptor tyrosine kinase is a 
novel marker of microvasculature of solid tumors that appears to play a key role 
in the angiogenesis process in breast cancer. However the prognostic 
significance of Tie2 has never been demonstrated in this neoplasm. In order to 
establish the prognostic value of Tie2 in breast carcinoma, we investigated Tie2 
expression in a large series of patients and correlated it with long-term 
follow-up. Tie2 expression was investigated using immunohistochemical assays 
with a polyclonal antibody on frozen sections in a series of 909 patients, and 
was correlated with long-term (median, 11.3 years) follow-up. Univariate 
(Kaplan-Meier) analysis showed that a large Tie2 positive tumor surface (cut off 
= 7%) was significantly correlated with poor overall survival (p=0.025). Tie2 
expression correlated with high metastasis risk among all patients (p=0.00067) 
and among node negative ones as well (p=0.01). Tie2 immuno-expression was also 
significantly predictive of relapse in all patients (p=0.003) and in the node 
negative subgroup (p=0.02). In multivariate analysis (Cox model) Tie2 
immunodetection was identified as an independent prognostic indicator. Our 
results suggest that Tie2 immunohistochemical expression exhibits practical 
clinical relevance in terms of prognostic prediction. Tie2 expression permits 
identification of poor outcome patients, in particular node negative ones with 
high risk of metastasis and relapse. Tie2 immunodetection may further be 
considered as a potential tool for selecting patients who could benefit in the 
future from specific antiangiogenic therapy interfering with Tie2 pathway.

PMID: 12527939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Mod Healthc. 2002 Dec 23;Suppl:30, 32.

By the numbers. Vital statistics.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12528230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Zentralbl Chir. 2002 Dec;127(12):1035-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2002-36375.

[Criteria for selection of patients for bariatric surgery].

[Article in German]

Hell E(1), Miller K.

Author information:
(1)A. ö. KH-Hallein und Ludwig-Boltzmann-Institut für Gastroenterologie und 
experim. Chirurgie, Hallein.

Because of the high prevalence of co-morbid conditions and poor life expectancy 
a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 40 kg/m(2) or more is an indication for surgery in a 
fully informed, consenting adult in optimal medical condition to tolerate 
general anaesthesia. Patients with BMI of 35-40 kg/m(2) and the existence of one 
or more serious obesity-related conditions ameliorated by weight loss, such as 
hypertension, pulmonary insufficiency, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
etc., are also candidates for surgical treatment. The bariatric surgeon should 
use these international criteria as guidelines only, not strict rules. Attempts 
on the part of internists and more frequently insurance carriers to require 
documented failure of previous non-operative treatment is not meaningful.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2002-36375
PMID: 12529815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Stat Med. 2003 Feb 15;22(3):353-62. doi: 10.1002/sim.1347.

Incremental net benefit in randomized clinical trials with quality-adjusted 
survival.

Willan AR(1), Chen EB, Cook RJ, Lin DY.

Author information:
(1)Program in Population Health Sciences, Research Centre, Hospital for Sick 
Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto ON, M5G 1X8, Canada. 
willana@mcmaster.ca

Owing to induced dependent censoring, estimating mean costs and quality-adjusted 
survival in a cost-effectiveness comparison of two groups using standard 
life-table methods leads to biased results. In this paper we propose methods for 
estimating the difference in mean costs and the difference in mean 
effectiveness, together with their respective variances and covariance in the 
presence of dependent censoring. We consider the situation in which the measure 
of effectiveness is either the probability of surviving a duration of interest 
or mean quality-adjusted survival time over a duration of interest. The methods 
are illustrated in an example using an incremental net benefit analysis.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.1347
PMID: 12529868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Prim Care. 2002 Sep;29(3):599-614. doi: 10.1016/s0095-4543(02)00005-2.

Preventive health care for older patients.

Parks SM(1), Hsieh C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Jefferson Medical College, 1015 Walnut Street, 
Suite 401, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. susan.parks@mail.tju.edu

This chapter addresses key components of screening and preventive care for the 
older population. The older population is heterogeneous, ranging from the 
competent, active, well individual to the frail, demented individual. Certain 
preventive measures are important for all individuals such as counseling on 
exercise and screening for high blood pressure. However, universal cancer, 
cholesterol, or dementia screening may not be cost effective and beneficial in 
all older adults. These preventive measures should be guided by the individuals' 
circumstances including their life expectancy, co-morbid illnesses, functional 
capacity, and quality of life. Clinicians may be able to individualize 
preventive medicine decisions by stratifying their patients into well and frail 
using the guidelines we have provided. The goal of prevention and screening in 
older patients is to improve function and quality of life. Primary care 
physicians should facilitate discussion of preventive measures with their older 
patients as part of their ongoing health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0095-4543(02)00005-2
PMID: 12529900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2000 Jun;1(2):114-20. doi: 10.1053/prrv.2000.0032.

Lung transplantation and end of life issues in cystic fibrosis.

Aurora P(1), Lynn IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Respiratory Medicine, Royal Brompton and Harefield 
NHS Trust, London, UK. paulaurora@yahoo.co.uk

Lung transplantation has been available as a therapeutic option for patients 
with end-stage cystic fibrosis lung disease for over 15 years, but the outcome 
following transplantation remains poor, and the supply of organs limited. For 
this reason some children opt to continue with medical treatment followed by 
terminal care rather than undergo transplantation. This article summarizes the 
current status of lung transplantation, including current referral guidelines 
and contraindications and also addresses current practice in terminal care.

DOI: 10.1053/prrv.2000.0032
PMID: 12531103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Vaccine. 2003 Jan 30;21(7-8):593-5. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(02)00702-8.

Vaccinology: past achievements, present roadblocks and future promises.

André FE(1).

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium. francis.andre@gskbio.com

Of all the branches of modern medicine, vaccinology can claim to be the one that 
has contributed most to the relief of human misery and the spectacular increase 
in life expectancy in the last two centuries. It is the only science that has 
eradicated an infectious disease-smallpox-responsible for 8-20% of all deaths in 
several European countries in the 18th century. Other disabling and lethal 
diseases, like poliomyelitis and measles, are targeted for eradication. 
Currently, it is estimated that immunization saves the lives of 3 million 
children a year but 2 million more lives could be saved by existing vaccines. 
The success of vaccines in controlling and eliminating diseases has, 
paradoxically, been the cause of a revival of the anti-vaccination movement 
which in the absence, in developed countries, of many erstwhile common 
infectious diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, measles, 
rubella and mumps has come to believe that vaccination is not only no longer 
necessary but is even dangerous. This is because it accepts, as "reactions", any 
untoward health event that occurs after administration of a vaccine. Most 
vaccine "reactions", therefore, appear to be more frequent than 
vaccine-preventable diseases. Public Health Authorities, aware of the great 
value of vaccines to society, are facing an uphill battle to get them accepted 
by a growing proportion of so-called educated minorities, thus endangering 
disease elimination. Other developments, in the last two decades, that have 
hampered vaccine usage have been the exploding costs of research, development 
and manufacture of new vaccines and the emphasis still placed on therapy in 
preference to prevention in medicine. This has led to the erroneous perception 
that vaccines are expensive although they are, in most cases, more 
cost-effective than the popular wait-see-treat approach. A favorable trend for 
vaccinology has been fueled by recent major breakthroughs in the sciences of 
immunology, molecular biology, genomics, proteomics, physico-chemistry and 
computers that promise a bright future for prevention, not only of acute 
infectious diseases, but also treatment of conditions like chronic infections, 
allergy, auto-immune diseases and cancer where some malfunctioning of the immune 
system is thought to play a part. Vaccines are being made more user-friendly by 
the development of combined vaccines and less painful and invasive inoculation 
techniques than the traditional syringe and needle. Recent new initiatives, like 
the Global Alliance on Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI),which are gathering new 
sources of funding for vaccination, should be beneficial for vaccinology.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(02)00702-8
PMID: 12531323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2002 Dec;79(6):617-22, 611-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0066-782x2002001500007. Epub 2003 Jan 9.

Trends in productive years of life lost to premature mortality due to coronary 
heart disease.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Lessa I(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Saúde Coletiva da Universidade Federal da Bahia, Salvador, BA - 
Brazil. ines@ufba.br

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the number of productive years of life lost to premature 
death due to coronary heart disease in Brazil and to report their trends over a 
20-year period.
METHODS: The Brazilian Ministry of Health raw database on death due to coronary 
heart disease from 1979-1998 was used. The productive years of life lost to 
premature death were estimated using 20 and 59 years of age as the cut points 
for the productive years, replacing the potential years of 1 and 70 of the 
original formula. A descriptive analysis was provided with adjustments, means, 
proportions, ratios, percentages of increase or reduction, and mobile means.
RESULTS: A 35.8% increase in death for males and 51.3% for females was observed, 
+43.3% being the relative difference for females. The annual means of the 
productive years of life prematurely lost were analyzed in 140,865 males and 
58,559 females, with the differential ratio between the age groups ranging from 
2.3 to 2.5. The annual means were less favorable for males. Within each group 
(intragroup), the ratios decreased with the increase in age, and the age means 
at the time of death remained constant. The raw tendencies decreased in the 20- 
to 29-year age group and increased in the 40- to 59-year age group for females 
and the 40- to 49-year age group for males. When adjusted, the raw tendencies 
decreased.
CONCLUSION: The 43.3% increase in the number of female deaths as compared with 
that of males and the ascending tendency in the productive years of life lost in 
the 40- to 59-year age group point to the influence of unfavorable changes in 
female lifestyles and suggest a deficiency in programs for prevention and 
control of risk factors and in their treatment in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2002001500007
PMID: 12532245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Int J Cancer. 2003 Mar 10;104(1):44-53. doi: 10.1002/ijc.10920.

Effects of E-cadherin transfection on gene expression of a gallbladder carcinoma 
cell line: repression of MTS1/S100A4 gene expression.

Kohya N(1), Kitajima Y, Jiao W, Miyazaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Saga Medical School, Saga, Japan.

E-cadherin is important in cell-to-cell adhesion and controls cell polarity and 
tissue morphology. Loss of E-cadherin expression occurs in various human tumors 
and is the first step in cancer invasion and metastasis. We demonstrate that the 
exogenous expression of E-cadherin transfected into G-415 GB cells not only 
increases cell-to-cell adhesion but also reduces in vitro cell proliferation, 
motility and invasion. Our aim was to determine what genes are most affected by 
the exogenous expression of E-cadherin in GB cancer cells. We analyzed gene 
expression pertaining to cell proliferation, motility and invasion. Conventional 
RT-PCR was performed for these genes; quantitative RT-PCR was carried out on 
genes exhibiting altered expression. Conventional RT-PCR revealed that 
E-cadherin transfection suppressed expression of mts1 mRNA and increased that of 
c-myc and MT1-MMP. In quantitative RT-PCR analysis, levels of c-myc and MT1-MMP 
mRNA were elevated by to 2.56- and 2.22-fold, respectively, in the E-cadherin 
transfectant, whereas mts-1 was 7.14-fold suppressed compared to parental cells. 
These results indicated that expression of mts1 mRNA was most affected by 
E-cadherin transfection. Immunocytochemical analysis of transfectant and 
parental cells demonstrated an inverse correlation in E-cadherin and mts1 
expression. Immunohistochemical analysis of 37 GB cancer specimens confirmed 
this observation in vivo. Loss of E-cadherin expression followed by expression 
of the mts1 gene may be an important event for increasing cell proliferation, 
motility and invasion activity in the progression of GB cancer.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.10920
PMID: 12532418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Int J Cancer. 2003 Mar 10;104(1):92-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.10915.

Prognostic value of tumor-infiltrating dendritic cells expressing CD83 in human 
breast carcinomas.

Iwamoto M(1), Shinohara H, Miyamoto A, Okuzawa M, Mabuchi H, Nohara T, Gon G, 
Toyoda M, Tanigawa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Gastroenterological Surgery, Osaka Medical College, 
Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan.

DCs are the most potent antigen-presenting cells that play a major role in 
initiating the antitumor immune response. Although the clinical significance of 
TIDCs has been investigated in a variety of human cancers, few studies have 
focused on the in situ maturation status of DCs. We have analyzed the 
maturation-specific significance of TIDCs in the prognosis of patients with 
breast carcinoma. We evaluated 130 breast carcinomas for the presence of TIDCs 
using immunohistochemistry with an anti-CD1a antibody for immature DCs and an 
anti-CD83 antibody for mature DCs. Intratumoral expression of immunosuppressive 
cytokines was also examined. All samples contained CD1a(+) TIDCs, and 82 (63.1%) 
samples contained CD83(+) TIDCs. The number of CD83(+) TIDCs was inversely 
correlated with lymph node metastasis and with tissue expression of VEGF and 
TGF-beta, whereas the number of CD1a(+) TIDCs was not. Kaplan-Meier analysis 
(log rank statistics) revealed a significant association of increasing number of 
CD83(+) TIDCs with longer relapse-free (p = 0.002) and overall (p < 0.001) 
survival. Furthermore, among patients with lymph node metastasis, the survival 
rate of those with larger numbers of CD83(+) TIDCs was significantly better than 
that of patients with fewer CD83(+) TIDCs. Multivariate analysis revealed that 
CD83(+) TIDCs had independent prognostic relevance in breast carcinomas. The 
infiltration of tumors by mature DCs expressing CD83 may be of great importance 
in initiating the primary antitumor immune response and is confirmed as an 
independent, immunologic prognostic parameter for survival in patients with 
breast cancer.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.10915
PMID: 12532424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Ann Ital Med Int. 2002 Oct-Dec;17(4):229-41.

[Cystic fibrosis in adults].

[Article in Italian]

Monti MA(1), Pizzamiglio G, Gervasini N, Secchi GC.

Author information:
(1)Sezione Adulti del Centro per la Prevenzione, la Diagnosi e la Cura della 
Fibrosi Cistica della Regione Lombardia, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, 
Azienda Ospedaliera, Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Milano.

In the last two decades the life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF) has improved enormously: it is now estimated at around 30 years, but some 
patients reach an older age and one third of all patients with CF currently 
reach adulthood. Once considered a pediatric disease, CF now is a disease of 
adults too. As a consequence, internists must be highly knowledgeable about all 
the clinical patterns of this multifarious disease, must be better qualified to 
recognize its complications and must be highly trained to treat them. This 
review is dedicated to internists and general practitioners and not to the 
specialists in the research and clinical field of CF, until now only 
pediatricians; it briefly summarizes the medical history of CF and the current 
knowledge at the molecular, genetic and clinical levels about this disease; it 
reports up-to-date epidemiological data and it illustrates the clinical patterns 
which are more frequently encountered in adult patients. The true target of this 
review is to stimulate a greater interest and participation in this clinical 
field by adult caregivers, as a development of a medical care system for adults 
with CF is now crucial. Therefore, a growing number of internists will be 
increasingly involved in providing care for patients with this disorder.

PMID: 12532561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2002 Sep-Oct;(5):50-3.

[Medical and economic significance of prophylaxis of unfavorable reactions to 
weather].

[Article in Russian]

Grigor'ev II.

PMID: 12532606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Conn Med. 2002 Dec;66(12):769-70.

Sustainable progress: is it possible?

Massey RU(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Humanistic Studies, Department of Community Medicine and Health 
Care, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington, USA.

PMID: 12532613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Emerg Infect Dis. 2003 Jan;9(1):37-48. doi: 10.3201/eid0901.020168.

Cost-effectiveness of a potential vaccine for human papillomavirus.

Sanders GD(1), Taira AV.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, 117 Encina Commons, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA 94305-6019, USA. sanders@stanford.edu

Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, usually a sexually transmitted disease, is 
a risk factor for cervical cancer. Given the substantial disease and death 
associated with HPV and cervical cancer, development of a prophylactic HPV 
vaccine is a public health priority. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
vaccinating adolescent girls for high-risk HPV infections relative to current 
practice. A vaccine with a 75% probability of immunity against high-risk HPV 
infection resulted in a life-expectancy gain of 2.8 days or 4.0 quality-adjusted 
life days at a cost of $246 relative to current practice (incremental cost 
effectiveness of $22,755/quality-adjusted life year [QALY]). If all 12-year-old 
girls currently living in the United States were vaccinated, >1,300 deaths from 
cervical cancer would be averted during their lifetimes. Vaccination of girls 
against high-risk HPV is relatively cost effective even when vaccine efficacy is 
low. If the vaccine efficacy rate is 35%, the cost effectiveness increases to 
$52,398/QALY. Although gains in life expectancy may be modest at the individual 
level, population benefits are substantial.

DOI: 10.3201/eid0901.020168
PMCID: PMC2873748
PMID: 12533280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Mol Microbiol. 2003 Feb;47(3):657-69. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.03200.x.

Motility modes of Spiroplasma melliferum BC3: a helical, wall-less bacterium 
driven by a linear motor.

Gilad R(1), Porat A, Trachtenberg S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Membrane and Ultrastructure Research, The Hebrew 
University-Hadassah Medical School, PO Box 12272, Jerusalem 91120, Israel.

Spiroplasma are members of the Mollicutes (Mycoplasma, Acholeplasma and 
Spiroplasma) - the simplest, minimal, free-living and self-replicating forms of 
life. The mollicutes are unique among bacteria in completely lacking cell walls 
and flagella and in having an internal, contractile cytoskeleton, which also 
functions as a linear motor. Spiroplasma are helical, chemotactic and 
viscotactic active swimmers. The Spiroplasmal cytoskeleton is a flat ribbon 
composed of seven pairs of fibrils. The ribbon is attached to the inner side of 
the cell membrane along its innermost (shortest) helical line. The cell's 
geometry and dynamic helical parameters, and consequently motility, can be 
controlled by changing differentially and in a co-ordinated manner, the length 
of the fibrils. We identified several consistent modes of cell movements and 
motility originating, most likely, as a result of co-operative or local 
molecular switching of fibrils: (i). regular extension and contraction within 
the limits of helical symmetry (this mode also includes straightening, beyond 
what is allowed by helical symmetry, and reversible change of helical sense); 
(ii). spontaneous and random change of helical sense originating at random sites 
along the cell (these changes propagate along the cell in either direction and 
hand switching is completed within approximately 0.08 second); (iii). forming a 
deformation on one of the helical turns and propagating it along the cell (these 
helical deformations may travel along the cell at a speed of up to approximately 
40 microm s-1); (iv). random bending, flexing and twitching (equivalent to 
tumbling). In standard medium (viscosity = 1.147 centipoise) the cells run at 
approximately 1.5 microm s-1, have a Reynolds number of approximately 3.5 x 10-6 
and consume approximately 30 ATP molecules s-1. Running velocity, duration, 
persistence and efficiency increase with viscosity upon adding ficoll, dextran 
and methylcellulose to standard media. Relative force measurements using optical 
tweezers confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.03200.x
PMID: 12535068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Mol Microbiol. 2003 Feb;47(3):671-97. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.t01-1-03200.x.

The bacterial linear motor of Spiroplasma melliferum BC3: from single molecules 
to swimming cells.

Trachtenberg S(1), Gilad R, Geffen N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Membrane and Ultrastructure Research, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem-Hadassah Medical School, PO Box 12272, Jerusalem 91120, Israel. 
shlomot@cc.huji.ac.il

Spiroplasma melliferum BC3 are wall-less bacteria with internal cytoskeletons. 
Spiroplasma, Mycoplasma and Acholeplasma belong to the Mollicutes, which 
represent the smallest, simplest and minimal free-living and self-replicating 
forms of life. The Mollicutes are motile and chemotactic. Spiroplasma cells are, 
in addition, helical in shape. Based on data merging, obtained by video 
dark-field light microscopy of live, swimming helical Spiroplasma cells and by 
cryoelectron microscopy, unravelling the subcellular structure and molecular 
organization of the cytoskeleton, we propose a functional model in which the 
cytoskeleton also acts as a bacterial linear motor enabling and controlling both 
dynamic helicity and swimming. The cytoskeleton is a flat, monolayered ribbon 
constructed from seven contractile fibrils (generators) capable of changing 
their length differentially in a co-ordinated manner. The individual, flat, 
paired fibrils can be viewed as chains of tetramers approximately 100 A in 
diameter composed of 59 kDa monomers. The cytoskeletal ribbon is attached to the 
inner surface of the cell membrane (but is not an integral part of it) and 
follows the shortest helical line on the coiled cellular tube. We show that 
Spiroplasma cells can be regarded, at least in some states, as near-perfect 
dynamic helical tubes. Thus, the analysis of experimental data is reduced to a 
geometrical problem. The proposed model is based on simple structural elements 
and functional assumptions: rigid circular rings are threaded on a flexible, 
helical centreline. The rings maintain their circularity and normality to the 
centreline at all helical states. An array of peripheral, equidistant axial 
lines forms a regular cylindrical grid (membrane), by crossing the lines 
bounding the rings. The axial and peripheral spacing correspond to the tetramer 
diameter and fibril width (100 A) respectively. Based on electron microscopy 
data, we assign seven of the axial grid lines in the model to function as 
contractile generators. The generators are clustered along the shortest helical 
paths on the cellular coil. In the model, the shortest generator coincides with 
the shortest helical line. The rest, progressively longer, six generators follow 
to the right or to the left of the shortest generator in order to generate the 
maximal range of lengths. A rubbery membrane is stretched over (or represented 
by) the three-dimensional grid to form a continuous tube. Co-ordinated, 
differential length changes of the generators induce the membranal cylinder to 
coil and uncoil reversibly. The switch of helical sense requires equalization of 
the generators' length, forming a straight cylindrical tube with straight 
generators. The helical parameters of the cell population, obtained by light 
microscopy, constitute several subpopulations related, most probably, to cell 
size and age. The range of molecular dimensions in the active cytoskeleton 
inferred from light microscopy and modelling agrees with data obtained by direct 
measurements of subunit images on electron micrographs, scanning transmission 
electron microscopy (STEM) and diffraction analysis of isolated ribbons. 
Swimming motility and chemotactic responses are carried out by one or a 
combination of the following: (i). reciprocating helical extension and 
compression ('breathing'); (ii). propagation of a deformation (kink) along the 
helical path; (iii). propagation of a reversal of the helical sense along the 
cell body; and (iv). irregular flexing and twitching, which is functionally 
equivalent to standard bacterial tumbling. Here, we analyse in detail only the 
first case (from which all the rest are derived), including switching of the 
helical sense.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.t01-1-03200.x
PMID: 12535069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Value Health. 2003 Jan-Feb;6(1):3-5. doi: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.00002.x.

Making decisions on technology availability in the British National Health 
Service--why we need reliable models.

Akehurst RL.

Comment on
    Value Health. 2003 Jan-Feb;6(1):9-17.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.00002.x
PMID: 12535232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Value Health. 2003 Jan-Feb;6(1):59-74. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.00204.x.

Economic burden of long-term complications of deep vein thrombosis after total 
hip replacement surgery in the United States.

Caprini JA(1), Botteman MF, Stephens JM, Nadipelli V, Ewing MM, Brandt S, Pashos 
CL, Cohen AT.

Author information:
(1)Evanston Northwestern Healthcare, Evanston, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of the cost of long-term complications of a primary deep 
vein thrombosis (DVT), including the post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) and 
recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE), may be relevant for resource allocation 
