decisions.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to provide US cost estimates of the 
long-term complications of a primary DVT, which occurs in approximately 5% to 
20% (with adequate thromboprophylaxis) and 50% (in the absence of 
thromboprophylaxis) of total hip replacement surgeries (THRS).
METHODS: A literature-based model was used to project the excess long-term 
complication costs of DVT following THRS. The model simulated the natural 
history of DVT complications using published estimates of the incidence and 
prognosis of PTS and recurrent VTE. Each complication was assigned a cost 
obtained by multiplying the amount of resources used in its management by the 
unit price of these resources.
RESULTS: The annual per-patient cost of each complication was as follows: 
mild-to-moderate PTS, 839 dollars in the first year and 341 dollars in 
subsequent years; severe PTS, 3817 dollars in the first year and 1677 dollars in 
subsequent years; DVT, 3798 dollars; and pulmonary embolism, 6604 dollars. The 
average discounted lifetime cost of DVT complications was estimated to be 3069 
dollars (95% interval 2091 dollars-4279 dollars).
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term complications of a primary DVT represent a 
significant economic burden. Preventing a DVT could arguably lead to substantial 
savings in long-term DVT complications.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.00204.x
PMID: 12535239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Jan;75(1):47-50. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(02)04162-0.

Tricuspid valve replacement: an analysis of 25 years of experience at a single 
center.

Carrier M(1), Hébert Y, Pellerin M, Bouchard D, Perrault LP, Cartier R, 
Basmajian A, Pagé P, Poirier NC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Montreal Heart Institute, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada. carrier@icm.umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: Tricuspid valve replacement is seldom used in clinical practice, but 
the choice between mechanical and biologic prostheses remains controversial.
METHODS: Between 1977 and 2002, 97 patients underwent tricuspid valve 
replacement and were followed at the Montreal Heart Institute Valve Clinic. 
Patients underwent replacement with bioprostheses (n = 82) and mechanical valves 
(n = 15).
RESULTS: Patients with bioprosthetic tricuspid replacements averaged 53 +/- 13 
years of age compared with 48 +/- 11 years in those with tricuspid mechanical 
valve replacements (p = 0.2). Isolated tricuspid valve replacement was performed 
in 11 patients (73%) in the mechanical valve group compared with 31 patients 
(38%. p = 0.01) in the bioprosthetic replacement group. In patients undergoing 
bioprosthetic tricuspid replacement, 51 (62%) underwent multiple associated 
valve replacements. The 5-year survival after tricuspid replacement averaged 60% 
+/- 13% in the mechanical valve group and 56% +/- 6% in the biologic replacement 
group (p = 0.8). The 5-year freedom rate from tricuspid valve reoperation 
averaged 91% +/- 9% in patients with mechanical valves and 97% +/- 3% in those 
with biologic valves (p = 0.2). CONCLUSIONS; Patient survival after tricuspid 
valve replacement is suboptimal but related to the clinical condition at 
operation. The use of biologic prostheses for tricuspid valve replacement 
remains a good option in young patients because of limited life expectancy 
unrelated to the type of tricuspid prostheses at long-term follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(02)04162-0
PMID: 12537191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):1-7. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_01.

Introduction: health expectations for older women: international perspectives.

Laditka SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Aging, State University of New York Institute of 
Technology, PO Box 3050, Utica, NY 13504, USA. laditks@sunyit.edu

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_01
PMID: 12537276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):9-26. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_02.

Patterns of active life among older women: differences within and between 
groups.

Wolf DA(1), Laditka SB, Laditka JN.

Author information:
(1)Center for Policy Research, Syracuse University, 426 Eggers Hall, Syracuse, 
NY 13244, USA. DAWolf@maxwell.syr.edu

This study examines the distribution of total, unimpaired, and impaired life for 
several groups of older women defined by race, education, and marital history. 
Using data from the 1984-1990 Longitudinal Study of Aging, we model transitions 
among functional statuses using discrete-time Markov chains, and use 
microsimulation to produce summary indices of active life. Remaining years of 
life and the proportion of remaining years with disability vary substantially, 
both within each group of women studied and between pairs of groups. Of all 
groups studied, never-married, more-educated white women live the longest, 
healthiest lives. Ever-married nonwhite women with low education have the 
shortest life expectancy, and experience the most disability. Our findings show 
that life expectancy is an incomplete indicator of the time women, in particular 
sub-groups, can expect to live with and without impairment. These findings 
highlight the heterogeneity of disability processes and life expectancy for 
older women.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_02
PMID: 12537277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):27-46. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_03.

Health profiles and profile-specific health expectancies of older women and men: 
The Netherlands.

Deeg DJ(1), Portrait F, Lindeboom M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Institute for Research in Extramural Medicine, 
Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. djh.deeg.emgo@med.vu.nl

This study focuses on gender differences in health profiles, and examines which 
health profiles drive gender differences in remaining life expectancy in women 
and men aged 65 and over in The Netherlands. Data from the first two cycles of 
the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (n = 2,141 and 1,659, respectively) were 
used to calculate health profiles for individuals of 65-85 years. For both women 
and men, six profiles were found: I. cancer; II. "other" chronic diseases; III. 
cognitive impairment; IV. frailty or multimorbidity; V. cardiovascular diseases; 
and VI. good health. The further characterization of these types showed some 
gender differences. Remaining life expectancy for women was greater than for men 
in each health profile. A decomposition into health expectancies showed that 
both women and men could expect to live about 5 years in good health from age 
66. The greatest gender differences in years spent with health problems were 
found for profile IV and for profile III. Their greater number of years spent in 
these health states have direct consequences for the type and cost of care women 
need.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_03
PMID: 12537278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):47-59. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_04.

Life with and without disease: women experience more of both.

Crimmins EM(1), Kim JK, Hagedorn A.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-0191, USA.

This paper examines gender differences in life with and without six major 
diseases, including both mortal and morbid conditions. Disease prevalence and 
health behavior data are from the 1993-1995 National Health Interview Surveys 
for the United States. Vital registration data are the source of mortality rates 
used in computing life expectancy. The Sullivan method is used to estimate life 
lived with and without disease and risky behavior for men and women at various 
ages. Women live more years with each of the diseases examined, and, for 
arthritis, the extended years with disease are greatest. Women also live more 
years than men free of each of these diseases with the exception of arthritis. 
Gender differences in life without two health-risk behaviors are also discussed. 
Men spend more years of their lives overweight and have fewer years during which 
they see a doctor.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_04
PMID: 12537279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):61-83. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_05.

Gender differences in disability-free life expectancy for selected risk factors 
and chronic conditions in Canada.

Bélanger A(1), Martel L, Berthelot JM, Wilkins R.

Author information:
(1)Demography Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada, K1A 0T6. 
alain.belanger@statcan.ca

This article shows how mortality and morbidity patterns differ for women and men 
45 years of age and older. The impact on disability-free life expectancy was 
calculated for selected risk factors and chronic conditions: low income, low 
education, abnormal body mass index, lack of physical activity, smoking, cancer, 
diabetes, and arthritis. For each factor, the expected number of years free of 
disability was calculated for men and women using multi-state life tables. In 
terms of disability-free life expectancy, the greatest impacts on affected women 
were for diabetes (14.1 years), arthritis (8.8 years), and physical inactivity 
(6.0 years), while for affected men, the greatest impacts were for diabetes 
(10.5 years), smoking (6.9 years), arthritis (6.5 years), and cancer (6.4 
years). The implications of these results are discussed from the perspective of 
developing programs designed to improve population health status.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_05
PMID: 12537280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):85-97. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_06.

Gender differences in life expectancy free of impairment at older ages.

Jagger C(1), Matthews F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, 
England.

This article uses data from the United Kingdom Medical Research Council 
Cognitive Function and Ageing study (MRC CFAS) to analyze morbidity associated 
with three areas of impairment. We use cognitive status, functional status, and 
physical illness to examine differences in the proportion of time that older 
women and men will spend with co-morbidity. We also analyze differences among 
various impairments, and investigate the relationship between missing data and 
sex. Women have a larger burden of impairment than men, and, by including 
cognitive impairment together with functional impairment, a very large 
impairment burden is highlighted at all ages. Policy implications of the 
findings from the perspective of older women in the United Kingdom are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_06
PMID: 12537281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):99-117. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_07.

Global patterns of healthy life expectancy for older women.

Mathers CD(1), Murray CJ, Lopez AD, Sadana R, Salomon JA.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

This paper focuses on patterns of healthy life expectancy for older women around 
the globe in the year 2000, and on the determinants of differences in disease 
and injury for older ages. Our study uses data from the World Health 
Organization for women and men in 191 countries. These data include a summary 
measure of population health, healthy life expectancy (HALE), which measures the 
number of years of life expected to be lived in good health, and a complementary 
measure of the loss of health (disability-adjusted life years or DALYs) due to a 
comprehensive set of disease and injury causes. We examine two topics in detail: 
(1) cross-national patterns of female-male differences in healthy life 
expectancy at age 60; and (2) identification of the major injury and disability 
causes of disability in women at older ages. Globally, the male-female gap is 
lower for HALE than for total life expectancy. The sex gap is highest for Russia 
(10.0 years) and lowest in North Africa and the Middle East, where males and 
females have similar levels of healthy life expectancy, and in some cases, 
females have lower levels of healthy life expectancy. We discuss the 
implications of the findings for international health policy.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_07
PMID: 12537282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):119-33. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_08.

European perspectives on healthy aging in women.

Robine JM(1), Jagger C, Cambois E.

Author information:
(1)Health and Demography team, Department of Biostatistics, University of 
Montpellier I, France. robine@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

Using data from the 1994 European Community Household Panel, we compare active 
life expectancy differentials at age 65 years between women and men in 12 
European countries. We seek to explain the extent to which differences are a 
reflection of gender differentials in life expectancy at 65 years or reflect 
differences in active life expectancy earlier in life. Considerable variation in 
the gender differentials in both total and active life expectancies at age 65 
years exist within Europe, with some countries experiencing 20% lower life 
expectancy at age 65 years for men compared to women. Some evidence was found to 
suggest that gender differentials in active life expectancy may continue from 
younger ages through to later life.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_08
PMID: 12537283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):135-48. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_09.

Health expectancies in Japan: gender differences and policy implications for 
women.

Tsuji I(1), Sauvaget C, Hisamichi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan. tsuji1@mail.cc.tohoku.ac.jp

Based on prospective observation of elderly people in the community in Japan, we 
compared the time-course of development and progression of physical disability 
between women and men. Men experienced disability at a younger age and at a 
faster rate than did women. The duration of time spent with disability in women 
was twice as long as in men. Consequently, women consume about two-thirds of the 
total resources of formal caregiving services in Japan. Women in Japan are 
increasingly educated, postponing marriage to higher ages, and less likely to 
care for parents in the home. Given these changes in family structure and social 
norms, the capacity for informal family caregiving has decreased dramatically. A 
recently enacted national long-term care insurance system may further change the 
picture of caregiving.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_09
PMID: 12537284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):149-62. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_10.

Disability among older women and men in Fiji: concerns for the future.

Panapasa SV(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, Institute for Social Research, Ann Arbor, MI 
48106, USA.

This study examines the composition of elderly population at risk of disability 
and speculates the impact of disability on the quality of their lives and their 
longevity. Using census and survey data collected in Fiji, life table estimates 
of unimpaired life expectancy across time are presented for older people and the 
potential costs of disability, in terms of productive years of life lost. From a 
planning perspective, the study discusses medical and support services that may 
be needed to support older individuals in Fiji. The study also describes policy 
implications of the findings, focusing on the older women, and considers the 
implications for older women of other developing countries.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_10
PMID: 12537285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Women Aging. 2002;14(1-2):163-84. doi: 10.1300/J074v14n01_11.

Recent perspectives on active life expectancy for older women.

Laditka SB(1), Laditka JN.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Aging, State University of New York Institute of 
Technology, PO Box 3050, Utica, NY 13504, USA. laditks@sunyit.edu

This article provides a critical review of recent active life expectancy 
literature, describing trends of special interest to women. We review findings 
from leading perspectives used to study life expectancy and active life 
expectancy, including gender, racial and socioeconomic differences, 
disease-specific effects, and biodemography. We examine three competing theories 
of population health that frame active life expectancy research-compression of 
morbidity, expansion of morbidity, and dynamic equilibrium-concluding there is 
support for both the compression of morbidity and dynamic equilibrium theories. 
Policy implications for women include a greater understanding of the role of 
education and racial and ethnic diversity in active life trends, and an 
increased public policy emphasis on prevention and treatment of chronic disease, 
together with adoption of more healthy lifestyles.

DOI: 10.1300/J074v14n01_11
PMID: 12537286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Exp Appl Acarol. 2002;26(3-4):209-17. doi: 10.1023/a:1021185112192.

Demographic traits of Eotetranychus pruni from Belgian and Tunisian orchards, in 
comparison with Tetranychus urticae.

Grissa-Lebdi K(1), van Impe G, Lebrun P.

Author information:
(1)Institut National Agronomique de Tunisie, 43, Avenue Charles Nicolle, 1082 
Tunis-Mahrajène, Tunisie.

Eotetranychus pruni was recorded in Belgian and Tunisian apple orchards for the 
first time. The aim of this study was to compare a Belgian (Vieusart) and a 
Tunisian strain (Grombalia), with respect to their life history and demographic 
traits. Furthermore, a Tunisian strain of Tetranychus urticae (Sousse) was also 
added to the study, in order to evaluate the potential status of the Tunisian 
strain of E. pruni. Experiments were carried out in the laboratory (24 degrees 
C) on apple leaf discs. Significant differences were noticed between the two 
species, with respect to development time (males), fecundity and fertility (egg 
hatching), but no differences could be detected between the two strains of E. 
pruni. Life tables were set up to describe the population statistics. The 
calculated intrinsic rates of natural increase (rm) appear to be rather low per 
se and do not correspond to those of typical "r strategic pests". The Bootstrap 
procedure allows us to estimate the confidence interval for these rm values. By 
using this method, the two Tunisian strains (T. urticae and E. pruni) appear to 
be quite similar, and contrast with the Belgian strain (E. pruni). The potential 
pest status of the Tunisian strain of E. pruni is discussed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021185112192
PMID: 12537294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Malar J. 2002 Dec 18;1:19. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-1-19.

MalariaSphere: a greenhouse-enclosed simulation of a natural Anopheles gambiae 
(Diptera: Culicidae) ecosystem in western Kenya.

Knols BG(1), Njiru BN, Mathenge EM, Mukabana WR, Beier JC, Killeen GF.

Author information:
(1)International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology, Mbita Point Research 
and Training Centre, PO Box 30, Mbita Point, Kenya. bknols@planet.nl

BACKGROUND: The development and implementation of innovative vector control 
strategies for malaria control in Africa requires in-depth ecological studies in 
contained semi-field environments. This particularly applies to the development 
and release of genetically-engineered vectors that are refractory to Plasmodium 
infection. Here we describe a modified greenhouse, designed to simulate a 
natural Anopheles gambiae Giles ecosystem, and the first successful trials to 
complete the life-cycle of this mosquito vector therein.
METHODS: We constructed a local house, planted crops and created breeding sites 
to simulate the natural ecosystem of this vector in a screen-walled greenhouse, 
exposed to ambient climate conditions, in western Kenya. Using three different 
starting points for release (blood-fed females, virgin females and males, or 
eggs), we allowed subsequent stages of the life-cycle to proceed under close 
observation until one cycle was completed.
RESULTS: Completion of the life-cycle was observed in all three trials, 
indicating that the major life-history behaviours (mating, sugar feeding, 
oviposition and host seeking) occurred successfully.
CONCLUSION: The system described can be used to study the behavioural ecology of 
laboratory-reared and wild mosquitoes, and lends itself to contained studies on 
the stability of transgenes, fitness effects and phenotypic characteristics of 
genetically-engineered disease vectors. The extension of this approach, to 
enable continuous maintenance of successive and overlapping insect generations, 
should be prioritized. Semi-field systems represent a promising means to 
significantly enhance our understanding of the behavioural and evolutionary 
ecology of African malaria vectors and our ability to develop and evaluate 
innovative control strategies. With regard to genetically-modified mosquitoes, 
development of such systems is an essential prerequisite to full field releases.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-1-19
PMCID: PMC149390
PMID: 12537599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Heart Surg Forum. 2002;5(4):337-9.

A video-assisted thoracoscopic technique to encircle the four pulmonary veins: a 
new surgical intervention for atrial fibrillation ablation.

Manasse E(1), Infante M, Ghiselli S, Cariboni U, Alloisio M, Barbone A, Addis A, 
Gallotti R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Universita degli 
Studi di Milano, Via Giovannino de Grassi 17, Milan 20123, Italy. 
emanasse@inwind.it

BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common of the so-called benign 
arrhythmias. It affects not only life expectancy but also quality of life. Until 
recently, surgeons have most often encountered AF in association with ischemic 
or valvular disease but rarely as lone atrial fibrillation (LAF). For the subset 
of LAF patients, a minimally invasive procedure is recommended.
METHODS: Using an animal model, we have developed a video-assisted thoracoscopic 
approach to atrial ablation whereby the ablation is performed encircling the 
four pulmonary veins as through a median sternotomy.
RESULTS: Fifteen animals were used, and in 5 a complete encircling of the 
pulmonary veins was accomplished using the thoracoscopic approach.
DISCUSSION: Video-assisted thoracoscopy is a feasible and safe approach for 
epicardial pulmonary vein ablation. This technique offers the option of surgery 
to a class of patients who are resistant to medical therapy but for whom the 
presence of LAF contraindicates the open chest approach.

PMID: 12538114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Anesth Analg. 2003 Feb;96(2):418-25. doi: 10.1097/00000539-200302000-00023.

The impact of economics on changing medical technology with reference to 
critical care medicine in the United States.

Bloomfield EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida 32224, USA.

Comment in
    Anesth Analg. 2003 Feb;96(2):311-4.
    Anesth Analg. 2003 Aug;97(2):607; author reply 607-8.

DOI: 10.1097/00000539-200302000-00023
PMID: 12538189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. CMAJ. 2003 Jan 21;168(2):160-4.

Screening for diabetic retinopathy in James Bay, Ontario: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Maberley D(1), Walker H, Koushik A, Cruess A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC. 
dmaberle@vanhosp.bc.ca

BACKGROUND: Retinopathy is a common complication of diabetes mellitus that if 
detected early by regular retinal examinations can be treated; thus, blindness 
can be delayed or prevented. Providing high-quality retinal screening is 
difficult, especially in rural and remote areas. Canada's First Nations 
population has a higher prevalence of diabetes and is, in general, more 
geographically isolated than the broader Canadian population. We modelled the 
cost-effectiveness of retinopathy screening by travelling retina specialists 
versus retinal photography with a portable digital camera in an isolated First 
Nations cohort with diabetes.
METHODS: The 2 screening programs were modelled to run concurrently for 5 years, 
with outcomes evaluated over 10 years. To construct economic models for the 
population of Cree individuals living in the western James Bay area of northern 
Ontario, we used available data on the prevalence of diabetes in the area and 
estimates of the incidence of retinopathy derived from the published literature. 
We compared the screening models and calculated total costs, visual outcome, 
costs per sight-year saved and costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). We 
also estimated the costs of implementing a screening program for all First 
Nations individuals in Ontario with diabetes and no access to an 
ophthalmologist.
RESULTS: From the perspective of the health care system the camera program was 
preferable to the specialist-based program. Over 10 years, 67 v. 56 sight years 
were saved, compared with no screening, at costs of 3900 Canadian dollars v. 
9800 Canadian dollars per sight year and 15,000 Canadian dollars v. 37,000 
Canadian dollars per QALY. Generalizing these results to the province of 
Ontario, the camera system could allow most isolated First Nations people with 
diabetes to be screened for 5 years for approximately 1.2 million Canadian 
dollars.
INTERPRETATION: A portable retinal camera is a cost-effective means of screening 
for diabetic retinopathy in isolated communities of at-risk individuals.

PMCID: PMC140424
PMID: 12538543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Feb;14(2):500-15. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000046061.62136.d4.

Dialysis, kidney transplantation, or pancreas transplantation for patients with 
diabetes mellitus and renal failure: a decision analysis of treatment options.

Knoll GA(1), Nichol G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Canada. 
gknoll@ottawahospital.on.ca

Patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease may remain on 
dialysis or undergo cadaveric kidney transplantation, living kidney 
transplantation, sequential pancreas after living kidney transplantation, or 
simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation. It is unclear which of these 
options is most effective. The objective of this study was to determine the 
optimal treatment strategy for type 1 diabetic patients with renal failure using 
a decision analytic Markov model. Input data were obtained from the published 
medical literature, the United Network for Organ Sharing registry, and patient 
interviews. The outcome measures were life expectancy (in life-years [LY]) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (in quality-adjusted life-years [QALY]). Living 
kidney transplantation was associated with 18.30 LY and 10.29 QALY; pancreas 
after kidney transplantation, 17.21 LY and 10.00 QALY; simultaneous 
pancreas-kidney transplantation, 15.74 LY and 9.09 QALY; cadaveric kidney 
transplantation, 11.44 LY and 6.53 QALY; dialysis, 7.82 LY and 4.52 QALY. The 
results were sensitive to the value of several key variables. Simultaneous 
pancreas-kidney transplantation had the greatest life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy when living kidney transplantation was excluded 
from the analysis. These data indicate that living kidney transplantation is 
associated with the greatest life expectancy and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy for type 1 diabetic patients with renal failure. Treatment strategies 
involving pancreas transplantation should be considered for patients with 
frequent metabolic complications of diabetes and for those patients who favor 
kidney-pancreas transplantation over kidney transplantation alone. For patients 
without a living donor, simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation is 
associated with the greatest life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000046061.62136.d4
PMID: 12538753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Adv Space Res. 2002;30(4):999-1003. doi: 10.1016/s0273-1177(02)00162-x.

Lifetime total radiation risk of cosmonauts for orbital and interplanetary 
flights.

Shafirkin AV(1), Petrov VM, Kolomensky AV, Shurshakov VA.

Author information:
(1)State Research Centre of the RF-Institute for Biomedical Problems, Moscow, 
Russia.

This paper presents results of calculations of total radiation risk for 
cosmonauts over their lifetimes and assessments of possible shortening of life 
expectancy on the basis of generalized doses calculated for cosmonauts after a 
long term interplanetary and orbital space missions on "MIR" station and 
International Space Station with the use of mathematical expressions coming from 
a model of change mortality rate of mammals after irradiation. Tumor risk 
assessments for cosmonauts over lifetime after flights are also given. 
Dependences of the delayed radiation consequences mentioned above on flight 
duration, spacecraft shielding thicknesses, solar activity and cosmonauts' age 
are analyzed.

c2002 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0273-1177(02)00162-x
PMID: 12539777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;31(6):1117-22; author reply 1134-5. doi: 
10.1093/ije/31.6.1117.

The search for new risk factors for coronary heart disease: occupational therapy 
for epidemiologists?

Beaglehole R(1), Magnus P.

Author information:
(1)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;31(6):1122-4.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;31(6):1124-7.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;31(6):1127-9.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;31(6):1129-34.

The identification of the proximal causes of coronary heart disease (CHD) during 
the second half of the 20th century contributed to the prevention of premature 
CHD and the extension of life expectancy in middle-aged and older people in many 
wealthy countries. These major CHD risk factors-high blood cholesterol, high 
blood pressure, cigarette smoking and physical inactivity-satisfy public health 
criteria of causality. Strong epidemiological evidence suggests that they 
explain at least 75% of new cases of CHD. However, the search for 'new' or 
'emerging' CHD risk factors continues, partly justified by a myth that minimizes 
the contribution of the major risk factors. The public health criteria of 
causality were applied to the following proposed new risk factors: thrombotic 
factors and serum homocysteine levels; infectious agents; early life exposures 
including prenatal factors; genetic influences; oestrogen deficiency; and the 
role of the psychosocial environment. None of these factors are as important as 
the established risk factors for epidemic CHD and their potential contribution 
for improving population health is limited or unclear. Research into unexplained 
variations in the occurrence of CHD and into life course influences and 
socioeconomic inequalities may provide extra leads to effective public health 
action. Especially important is research on the upstream social and economic 
determinants of CHD and its major risk factors, on the spread of the CHD 
epidemic to poorer populations, and into prevention policy and programme 
effectiveness. Available evidence supports the feasibility and effectiveness of 
population-wide prevention directed towards increasing the proportion of people 
at low risk of CHD. The vast majority of the public health effort should be 
directed to this approach rather than to the high risk individual approach. 
There is still a major gap between knowledge and action in preventing the CHD 
epidemics.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/31.6.1117
PMID: 12540704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Comp Neurol. 2003 Mar 10;457(3):293-312. doi: 10.1002/cne.10569.

Critical calpain-dependent ultrastructural alterations underlie the 
transformation of an axonal segment into a growth cone after axotomy of cultured 
Aplysia neurons.

Spira ME(1), Oren R, Dormann A, Gitler D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Life Science, The Hebrew University 
of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91904, Israel. spira@cc.huji.ac.il

The transformation of a stable axonal segment into a motile growth cone is a 
critical step in the regeneration of amputated axons. In earlier studies we 
found that axotomy of cultured Aplysia neurons leads to a transient and local 
elevation of the free intracellular Ca2+ concentration, resulting in calpain 
activation, localized proteolysis of submembranal spectrin, and, eventually, 
growth cone formation. Moreover, inhibition of calpain by calpeptin prior to 
axotomy inhibits growth cone formation. Here we investigated the mechanisms by 
which calpain activation participates in the transformation of an axonal segment 
into a growth cone. To that end we compared the ultrastructural alterations 
induced by axotomy performed under control conditions with those caused by 
axotomy performed in the presence of calpeptin, using cultured Aplysia neurons 
as a model. We identified the critical calpain-dependent cytoarchitectural 
alterations that underlie the formation of a growth cone after axotomy. 
Calpain-dependent processes lead to restructuring of the neurofilaments and 
microtubules to form an altered cytoskeletal region 50-150 microm proximal to 
the tip of the transected axon in which vesicles accumulate. The dense pool of 
vesicles forms in close proximity to a segment of the plasma membrane along 
which the spectrin membrane skeleton has been proteolyzed by calpain. We suggest 
that the rearrangement of the cytoskeleton forms a transient cellular 
compartment that traps transported vesicles and serves as a locus for 
microtubule polymerization. We propose that this cytoskeletal configuration 
facilitates the fusion of vesicles with the plasma membrane, promoting the 
extension of the growth cone's lamellipodium. The growth process is further 
supported by the radial polymerization of microtubules from the growth cone's 
center.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10569
PMID: 12541311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Acta Cardiol. 2002 Dec;57(6):397-8. doi: 10.2143/AC.57.6.2005461.

Evolution of the mortality rate in the age class of 75-84 years worldwide.

Kesteloot H.

DOI: 10.2143/AC.57.6.2005461
PMID: 12542115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Int J Paediatr Dent. 2003 Jan;13(1):41-5. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-263x.2003.00419.x.

Severe gingival hyperplasia in a child with I-cell disease.

Lee W(1), O'Donnell D.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Hong Kong, China.

I-cell disease (mucolipidosis II) is a rare metabolic disorder resulting from 
the deficiency of a specific lysosomal enzyme, 
N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferease. The disease presents as a mental and 
motor developmental delay with oral manifestations that include severe gingival 
hyperplasia usually seen before one year of age. The life expectancy of children 
with this condition is poor, with death usually occurring around the fifth year. 
A case report of a 3-year-old Pakistani male, with I-cell disease, is presented. 
The chief dental concerns of the parents were his swollen gums and delayed tooth 
eruption. Supportive treatment only was initiated. Differential diagnosis for 
severe gingival overgrowth in young patients should take account of this rare 
metabolic disorder in addition to hereditary and idiopathic fibromatosis and 
drug associated gingival overgrowth.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-263x.2003.00419.x
PMID: 12542623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Cytokine. 2002 Nov 24;20(4):184-90. doi: 10.1006/cyto.2002.1993.

Prognostic role of serum vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast 
growth factor and nitric oxide in patients with colorectal carcinoma.

Akbulut H(1), Altuntas F, Akbulut KG, Ozturk G, Cindoruk M, Unal E, Icli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Ibni Sina Hospital, Ankara University Faculty 
of Medicine, Sihhiye, Ankara 06100, Turkey. hakbulut@dialup.ankara.edu.tr

Recently, angiogenesis has gained an increasing interest as a prognostic factor 
in a variety of solid tumours. In this study we aimed to assess the prognostic 
role of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth 
factor (b-FGF) and nitric oxide (NO) levels in patients with colorectal 
carcinoma (CRC).A total of 52 consecutive colorectal cancer patients with stage 
I to IV disease was included. In addition to routine laboratory and staging 
procedures, serum VEGF, b-FGF levels, and nitrate levels as a surrogate marker 
for in-vivo NO production were assayed. Serum VEGF concentrations, adjusted to 
the platelet count were found to be a significant factor for overall survival in 
univariate analysis (P=0.033). A new angiogenic index (AI), derived from serum 
VEGF and nitrate concentrations, was established. AI is the only independent 
prognostic factor of survival in all patients (P=0.008, Cox regression 
analysis). Likewise, AI is also significant prognostic factor for disease-free 
survival (DFS) in patients with operable CRC (P=0.032, Cox regression analysis). 
In conclusion, serum VEGF and NO levels have prognostic role in patients with 
CRC and the new angiogenesis index using the serum levels of the factors seem to 
be useful.

DOI: 10.1006/cyto.2002.1993
PMID: 12543084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Jan-Feb;38(1-2):13-25. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00161-4.

A Darwinian-evolutionary concept of age-related diseases.

Wick G(1), Berger P, Jansen-Dürr P, Grubeck-Loebenstein B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedical Aging Research, Austrian Academy of Sciences, 
Rennweg 10, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria. georg.wick@oeaw.ac.at

Humans and animals are structurally designed as a compromise to guarantee 
optimal survival until the time of reproduction based on natural selection that 
is effective until that age. Modern conditions of life including improvement of 
hygiene, preventive and curative medicine as well as socio-economic and 
political developments have led to an increase of the mean life expectancy that 
allows ever larger proportions of the population to reach an age that is far 
beyond that of the reproductive phase. The concept of a Darwinian-evolutionary 
basis for the development of age-related diseases in principle postulates that 
genetic traits that are beneficial in younger years to allow for successful 
reproduction may become deleterious in the elderly, i.e. when selective pressure 
does not seem to be effective anymore. Examples for this mechanism of 
pleiotropic antagonism taken from the work of the Institute for Biomedical Aging 
Research in Innsbruck, Austria, include atherosclerosis, benign and malignant 
prostate hypertrophy, Alzheimer's disease and the reciprocal relationship 
between cellular senescence and cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00161-4
PMID: 12543257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Jan-Feb;38(1-2):47-52. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00149-3.

Nutritional control of aging.

Zimmerman JA(1), Malloy V, Krajcik R, Orentreich N.

Author information:
(1)Orentreich Foundation for the Advancement of Science Inc., Cold 
Spring-on-Hudson, NY, USA. zimmermj@stjohns.edu

For more than 60 years the only dietary manipulation known to retard aging was 
caloric restriction, in which a variety of species respond to a reduction in 
energy intake by demonstrating extended median and maximum life span. More 
recently, two alternative dietary manipulations have been reported to also 
extend survival in rodents. Reducing the tryptophan content of the diet extends 
maximum life span, while lowering the content of sulfhydryl-containing amino 
acids in the diet by removing cysteine and restricting the concentration of 
methionine has been shown to extend all parameters of survival, and to maintain 
blood levels of the important anti-oxidant glutathione. To control for the 
possible reduction in energy intake in methionine-restricted rats, animals were 
offered the control diet in the quantity consumed by rats fed the low methionine 
diet. Such pair-fed animals experienced life span extension, indicating that 
methionine restriction-related life span extension is not a consequence of 
reduced energy intake. By feeding the methionine restricted diet to a variety of 
rat strains we determined that lowered methionine in the diet prolonged life in 
strains that have differing pathological profiles in aging, indicating that this 
intervention acts by altering the rate of aging, not by correcting some single 
defect in a single strain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00149-3
PMID: 12543260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Crit Care Med. 2003 Jan;31(1):1-11. doi: 10.1097/00003246-200301000-00001.

Cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) in the treatment of severe 
sepsis.

Angus DC(1), Linde-Zwirble WT, Clermont G, Ball DE, Basson BR, Ely EW, Laterre 
PF, Vincent JL, Bernard G, van Hout B; PROWESS Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Clinical Research, Investigation and 
Systems Modeling of Acute Illness Laboratory, University of Pittsburgh, PA 
15213, USA. angusdc@ccm.upmc.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2003 Jan;31(1):306-8.
    Crit Care Med. 2003 Jan;31(1):308-9.
    Crit Care Med. 2003 Jan;31(1):310-1.
    Crit Care Med. 2003 Sep;31(9):2414-5; author reply 2415.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of drotrecogin alfa (activated) 
therapy, which was recently shown to reduce mortality in severe sepsis.
DESIGN: Estimates of effectiveness and resource use were based on data collected 
prospectively as part of a multicenter international trial. Estimates of 
hospital costs were based on a subset of the patients treated in the United 
States (33% of all enrolled patients). Lifetime projections were modeled from 
published sources and tested in sensitivity analyses. Analyses were conducted 
from the United States societal perspective, limited to healthcare costs, and 
using a 3% annual discount rate.
SETTING: A total of 164 medical institutions in 11 countries.
PATIENTS: Adults > or = 18 yrs of age with severe sepsis
INTERVENTIONS: Eligible patients were randomly assigned to receive a 96-hr 
intravenous infusion of drotrecogin alfa (activated) at 24 microg/kg/hr (n = 
850) or placebo (n = 840).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Base Case: incremental short-term (days 1-28) 
healthcare costs per day-28 survivor; Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and 
Medicine Reference Case: incremental lifetime healthcare costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year. Over the first 28 days (short-term Base Case), 
drotrecogin alfa (activated) increased the costs of care by $9,800 and survival 
by 0.061 lives saved per treated patient. Thus, drotrecogin alfa (activated) 
cost $160,000 per life saved (with 84.7% probability that ratio is <$250,000 per 
life saved). Projected to lifetime (lifetime Reference Case), drotrecogin alfa 
(activated) increased the costs of care by $16,000 and quality-adjusted survival 
by 0.33 quality-adjusted life-years per treated patient. Thus, drotrecogin alfa 
(activated) cost $48,800 per quality-adjusted life-year (with 82% probability 
that ratio is <$100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year). Estimates were 
generally robust to sensitivity analyses, although cost-effectiveness 
deteriorated to >$100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year if survivors lived <4.6 
yrs on average. Drotrecogin alfa (activated) cost $27,400 per quality-adjusted 
life-year when limited to patients with an Acute Physiology and Chronic Health 
Evaluation II score > or = 25 and was cost-ineffective when limited to patients 
with a score <25.
CONCLUSIONS: Drotrecogin alfa has a cost-effectiveness profile similar to that 
of many well-accepted healthcare strategies and below commonly quoted 
thresholds.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-200301000-00001
PMID: 12544986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Transpl Int. 2003 Jan;16(1):58-60. doi: 10.1007/s00147-002-0499-5. Epub 2002
Dec  10.

A new and objective definition of the term "indefinite survival" in organ 
transplantation in the animal model.

Babuccu O.

DOI: 10.1007/s00147-002-0499-5
PMID: 12545343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Prog Urol. 2002 Dec;12(6):1179-87.

[Salvage radical prostatectomy after radiotherapy failure in localized prostatic 
cancer].

[Article in French]

Rigaud J(1), Tiguert R, Fradet Y, Bouchot O.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Urologique, CHU de Nantes, France.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate salvage radical 
prostatectomy after failure of radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The literature published between 1984 and 2002 was reviewed 
by a MEDLINE search using the following key words: prostate cancer, 
radiotherapy, salvage radical prostatectomy.
RESULTS: A total of 404 cases of salvage radical prostatectomy were identified, 
including 287 radical prostatectomies and 117 radical cystoprostatectomies. 
Patient selection criteria for this type of surgery were: good general state 
with a life expectancy of at least 10 years, tumour recurrence with no signs of 
local or distant extension, histological evidence a minimum of 12 months after 
radiotherapy and PSA level less than 10 ng/ml before radiotherapy and surgery. 
The mean rectal injury rate was 7% (range: 0% to 28%) and the mean incontinence 
rate was 37% (range: 0% to 80%). Histologically, the mean rate of 
prostate-confined tumours was 34% (range: 20% to 60%), a mean seminal vesicle 
invasion rate of 36% (range: 25% to 50%) and a mean positive surgical margins 
rate of 36% (range: 15% to 67%). This second-line treatment was effective in 
terms of long-term survival, with a specific 10-year survival of 70%.
CONCLUSION: Radical prostatectomy after failure of radiotherapy is associated 
with considerable morbidity, but can achieve a good 10-year survival rate in 
carefully selected patients.

PMID: 12545622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Prog Urol. 2002 Dec;12(6):1272-4.

[Breast metastasis of kidney cancer. Diagnostic and therapeutic features].

[Article in French]

Ben Amna M(1), Sibert L, Navarra S, Dunet F, Pfister C, Grise P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Charles Nicolle, 1 rue de Germont, 76031 Rouen.

The breast is a rare site of metastasis from renal cancer and the preoperative 
diagnosis is often difficult. The treatment recommended for this type of 
metastasis is tumourectomy associated with frozen section examination, while 
mastectomy and lymph node dissection are unnecessary. The prognosis is often 
poor with a life expectancy rarely exceeding one year. The authors report a case 
of isolated right breast metastasis occurring two and a half years after left 
radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. Tumourectomy and frozen section 
examination were performed. The patient died four years later in a context of 
disseminated metastases despite immunotherapy.

PMID: 12545637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Geriatrics. 2003 Jan;58(1):43.

Cardiovascular disease and the aging U.S. population.

Segal BL, Tecce MA, Sherman FT.

PMID: 12545671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Periodontol. 2002 Dec;73(12):1474-84. doi: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.12.1474.

The cost-effectiveness of interleukin-1 genetic testing for periodontal disease.

Higashi MK(1), Veenstra DL, del Aguila M, Hujoel P.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research & Policy Program, University of Washington, 
Seattle 98195-7630, USA.

BACKGROUND: A genetic test for a composite interleukin-1 (IL-1) genotype is 
being marketed to predict risk for progression of periodontal disease. The 
objective of this study was to determine the clinical scenario required to 
produce cost-effective results with the use of IL-1 testing to identify 
high-risk patients.
METHODS: A disease simulation model was developed using decision-analytic 
techniques and a 30-year time frame.
RESULTS: Using different modeling scenarios, the genetic test produced results 
ranging from cost savings of $830,140 and 52.8 fewer cases of severe 
periodontitis to increased costs of $300,430 and 3.6 additional cases of severe 
periodontitis (per 1,000 patients). Three parameters in the analysis were highly 
influential: 1) the compliance rate for maintenance therapy in test positive 
versus non-tested patients; 2) the effectiveness of non-surgical therapy; and 3) 
the relative risk of disease progression for test positive patients.
CONCLUSION: The model produced a wide range of outcomes reflecting our 
incomplete understanding of the biology, optimal treatment, and genetic 
susceptibility of periodontal diseases. However, the model demonstrates that 
three clinical parameters are highly influential in determining if IL-1 testing 
can be implemented in a primary care setting in a cost-effective manner.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2002.73.12.1474
PMID: 12546098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Hepatol. 2003 Feb;38(2):215-22. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(02)00382-3.

Assessment of cost-effectiveness of universal hepatitis B immunization in a 
low-income country with intermediate endemicity using a Markov model.

Aggarwal R(1), Ghoshal UC, Naik SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
