cellular and molecular mechanisms.

Mattson MP(1), Duan W, Guo Z.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging, Gerontology 
Research Center, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.

Although all cells in the body require energy to survive and function properly, 
excessive calorie intake over long time periods can compromise cell function and 
promote disorders such as cardiovascular disease, type-2 diabetes and cancers. 
Accordingly, dietary restriction (DR; either caloric restriction or intermittent 
fasting, with maintained vitamin and mineral intake) can extend lifespan and can 
increase disease resistance. Recent studies have shown that DR can have profound 
effects on brain function and vulnerability to injury and disease. DR can 
protect neurons against degeneration in animal models of Alzheimer's, 
Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and stroke. Moreover, DR can stimulate the 
production of new neurons from stem cells (neurogenesis) and can enhance 
synaptic plasticity, which may increase the ability of the brain to resist aging 
and restore function following injury. Interestingly, increasing the time 
interval between meals can have beneficial effects on the brain and overall 
health of mice that are independent of cumulative calorie intake. The beneficial 
effects of DR, particularly those of intermittent fasting, appear to be the 
result of a cellular stress response that stimulates the production of proteins 
that enhance neuronal plasticity and resistance to oxidative and metabolic 
insults; they include neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF), protein chaperones such as heat-shock proteins, and mitochondrial 
uncoupling proteins. Some beneficial effects of DR can be achieved by 
administering hormones that suppress appetite (leptin and ciliary neurotrophic 
factor) or by supplementing the diet with 2-deoxy-d-glucose, which may act as a 
calorie restriction mimetic. The profound influences of the quantity and timing 
of food intake on neuronal function and vulnerability to disease have revealed 
novel molecular and cellular mechanisms whereby diet affects the nervous system, 
and are leading to novel preventative and therapeutic approaches for 
neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.2003.01586.x
PMID: 12558961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Transfusion. 2003 Feb;43(2):192-201. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2003.00280.x.

Health and economic impact of posttransfusion hepatitis B and cost-effectiveness 
analysis of expanded HBV testing protocols of blood donors: a study focused on 
the European Union.

Pereira A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service of Hemotherapy and Hemostasis and Blood Bank, Hospital Clinic, August 
Pi-Sunyer Memorial Institute for Biomedical Research (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, 
Spain. apereira@clinic.ub.es

BACKGROUND: Residual risk of posttransfusion hepatitis B (PT-HB) may be reduced 
through implementation of HBV NAT or the new, enhanced-sensitivity HBsAg assays 
in routine donor testing. However, there are some doubts about the 
cost-effectiveness of these new safety measures, because hepatitis B acquired in 
adulthood is not regarded as a severe disease in western countries.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A computer model was designed to estimate the health 
outcomes and associated costs of patients with PT-HB. Results from this model 
and estimations of the residual risk of HBV transmission, the risk reduction 
yielded by the new assays, and their cost were used to calculate the 
cost-effectiveness of including the new HBsAg assays or single-sample HBV NAT in 
the routine screening of blood donors.
RESULTS: The model predicts that 0.97 percent of patients with PT-HB die of 
liver disease (54% of them due to fulminant hepatitis). The mean loss of life 
expectancy was 0.178 years per patient, and the present value of the lifetime 
costs of treating PT-HB was 4160 euros per patient. Single-donor HBV NAT or the 
new HBsAg assays would increase the life expectancy of blood recipients by 16 
(95% CI, 8-40) or 14 (95% CI, 7-28) years, respectively, per every 10 million 
donations tested. The projected cost per life-year gained was 0.79 (95% CI, 
0.15-1.85) million euros for the enhanced-sensitivity HBsAg assays and 5.8 (95% 
CI, 1.9-13.1) million euros for single-donation HBV NAT, both compared with 
current HBsAg assays. If single-donation HBV NAT is compared with the new HBsAg 
assays, its cost- effectiveness ratio increases to 53 (95% CI, 16-127) million 
euros.
CONCLUSION: PT-HB has few health or economic repercussions. Single-donation HBV 
NAT would provide a small health benefit at a very high cost. Instead, in some 
circumstances, the cost-effectiveness of enhanced-sensitivity HBsAg assays would 
be within acceptable ranges for new public health interventions.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.2003.00280.x
PMID: 12559015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Eur J Heart Fail. 2003 Jan;5(1):101-8. doi: 10.1016/s1388-9842(02)00246-5.

Intravenous levosimendan treatment is cost-effective compared with dobutamine in 
severe low-output heart failure: an analysis based on the international LIDO 
trial.

Cleland JG(1), Takala A, Apajasalo M, Zethraeus N, Kobelt G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Castle Hill Hospital, Castle Road, Cottingham, 
University of Hull, Kingston upon Hull HU16 5JQ, UK. j.g.cleland@hull.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Levosimendan, a novel calcium sensitiser, improves cardiac 
performance and symptoms without increasing oxygen consumption, and decreases 
the mortality of patients with low-output heart failure.
AIMS: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of intravenous treatment with 
levosimendan compared with dobutamine in patients with severe low-output heart 
failure.
METHODS: This economic evaluation was based on a European clinical trial (LIDO), 
in which 203 patients with severe heart failure randomly received a 24 h 
infusion with either levosimendan or dobutamine. Survival and resource 
utilisation data were collected for 6 months; survival was extrapolated assuming 
a mean additional lifetime of 3 years based on data from the Cooperative North 
Scandinavian Enalapril Survival Study trial. Costs were based on study drug 
usage and hospitalisation in the 6-month follow-up. A sensitivity analysis on 
dosage of drug and duration of survival was performed.
RESULTS: The mean survival over 6 months was 157+/-52 days in the levosimendan 
group and 139+/-64 days in the dobutamine group (P<0.01). When extrapolated up 
to 3 years, the gain in life expectancy was estimated at 0.35 years (discounted 
at 3%). Levosimendan increased the mean cost per patient by 1108, which was 
entirely due to the cost of the study drug. The incremental cost per life-year 
saved (LYS) was 3205 at the European level; in the individual countries the cost 
per LYS ranged between 3091 and 3331. The result was robust in the sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the patients in the levosimendan group were alive for more 
days and thus at risk of hospitalisation for longer, there was no increase in 
hospitalisation or hospitalisation costs with levosimendan treatment. The cost 
per LYS using levosimendan compares favourably with other cost-effectiveness 
analyses in cardiology.

DOI: 10.1016/s1388-9842(02)00246-5
PMID: 12559222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Exp Gerontol. 2002 Dec;37(12):1347-57. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00096-7.

Dissociation between functional senescence and oxidative stress resistance in 
Drosophila.

Cook-Wiens E(1), Grotewiel MS.

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Program, Michigan State University, S-306 Plant Biology 
Building, East Lansing, MI 48824-1312, USA.

Many studies strongly suggest a causal link between oxidative stress and 
determination of life span. The relationship between oxidative stress and 
age-related functional declines, however, is less clear. Additionally, the full 
spectrum of functional declines associated with aging has not been 
systematically evaluated in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, one of the 
leading models for aging research. Toward a more comprehensive assessment of 
functional senescence in Drosophila, we evaluated a series of behaviors in 
control flies of increasing ages. Our studies reveal a novel age-dependent 
functional decline in the olfactory system and confirm previous reports of 
age-related locomotor defects in flies. Behavioral responses to electric shock 
and light are maintained in aged flies. Thus, some sensory systems senesce 
during the first several weeks of life while others do not. Interestingly, the 
age-dependent functional declines in olfactory and locomotor systems are 
indistinguishable in control flies and methuselah, a mutant with enhanced 
resistance to oxidative stress and increased life span. Our results indicate 
that enhanced resistance to oxidative stress and extension of life span do not 
necessarily confer protection from age-related functional declines.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00096-7
PMID: 12559404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Feb;56(4):895-7. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00077-1.

Commentary on: A psychometric analysis of the measurement level of the rating 
scale, time trade-off, and standard gamble, by Cook et al.

Hawthorne G(1), Osborne RH, Elliott P.

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Posttraumatic Mental Health, Department of Psychiatry, 
The University of Melbourne, Locked Bag 1, West Heidelberg, VIC 3081, Australia. 
graemeeh@unimelb.edu.au

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 2001 Nov;53(10):1275-85.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00077-1
PMID: 12560021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Zoolog Sci. 2003 Jan;20(1):49-57. doi: 10.2108/zsj.20.49.

Life history of Milnesium tardigradum DoyÃ¨re (tardigrada) under a rearing 
environment.

Suzuki AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Keio University, Hiyoshi, Yokohama 223-8521, Japan. 
chu@hc.cc.keio.ac.jp

A strain of carnivorous tardigrade, Milnesium tardigradum, was reared in water 
on agar plates at 25 degrees C. The monogonont rotifer Lecane inermis was 
presented as a food source. This rearing system permitted detailed observation 
of tardigrade behaviour. Daily measurements of body length allowed the growth 
rate and moulting cycle of this species to be determined. The life history of M. 
tardigradum raised under these conditions included up to seven periods of moult. 
The first and second moults occurred at intervals of 4-5 days, and individuals 
reached reproductive maturity at the 3rd-instar stage; the first period of egg 
laying accompanied the third moult. The most rapidly developing animal in the 
study population laid eggs 12 days after hatching. The egg-laying intervals or 
moulting intervals of adult animals were around 6-10 days. The mean clutch size 
was 6.9 eggs. All tardigrades in this laboratory population were female and 
reproduced by parthenogenesis. The duration of the embryonic stage ranged from 
5-16 days. The most long-lived female survived for 58 days after hatching, and 
laid a total of 41 eggs in 5 separate clutches. The entire life cycle of 
tardigrades reared under these conditions was recorded and photographed. A brief 
description of the embryonic development of M. tardigradum was also reported.

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.20.49
PMID: 12560601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Am J Psychiatry. 2003 Feb;160(2):363-5. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.160.2.363.

Are top journals biased against eating disorders topics?

Frost S(1), Murphy R, Webster P, Schmidt U.

Author information:
(1)Eating Disorders Research Unit, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny Park, 
Denmark Hill, London, UK.

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 2004 Dec;161(12):2327.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated whether there is a bias against eating 
disorders research among the leading psychiatric, psychological, and medical 
journals.
METHOD: The authors performed a comparison between the number of empirical 
articles published about anorexia nervosa and/or bulimia nervosa and the number 
of articles published about panic disorder and/or agoraphobia (i.e., disorders 
of comparable disease burden) in 29 high-impact journals over a 5-year period 
(1996-2001).
RESULTS: There were almost twice as many published empirical articles about 
panic disorder and/or agoraphobia (N=365) as there were about anorexia nervosa 
and/or bulimia nervosa (N=169).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate a possible bias against eating disorders 
research among some leading psychiatric journals. Alternative explanations and 
implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.160.2.363
PMID: 12562585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Pediatrics. 2003 Feb;111(2):E168-75. doi: 10.1542/peds.111.2.e168.

Low blood CD8+ T-lymphocytes and high circulating monocytes are predictors of 
HIV-1-associated progressive encephalopathy in children.

SÃ¡nchez-RamÃ³n S(1), BellÃ³n JM, Resino S, CantÃ³-NoguÃ©s C, Gurbindo D, Ramos JT, 
MuÃ±oz-FernÃ¡ndez MA.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Neuroimmunology, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio MaraÃ±Ã³n, 
Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated progressive 
encephalopathy (PE) is a common and devastating complication of HIV-1 infection 
in children, whose risk factors have not yet been clearly defined. Regardless of 
the age of presentation, PE shortens life expectancy. Paradoxically, as survival 
of patients has been prolonged as a result of the use of antiretroviral therapy, 
the prevalence of PE has increased. Therefore, a predictive marker of PE 
emergence is critical. The objective of this study was to determine in an 
observational study whether any immunologic (CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-lymphocyte 
counts, monocyte counts) or virologic (viral load [VL], biological 
characteristics of viral isolates) marker might be predictive of PE and whether 
any particular marker may be involved in the timing of clinical onset of PE.
METHODS: A total of 189 children who were vertically infected with HIV-1 were 
studied retrospectively, 58 of whom fulfilled criteria of the American Academy 
of Neurology for PE. T-lymphocyte subsets and monocytes in peripheral blood were 
quantified by flow cytometry. HIV-1 RNA was measured in plasma using a 
quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assay. Demographic, 
clinical, and viro-immunologic characteristics in infants were compared with 
control groups using logistic regression. Proportions were compared using the 
chi(2) test or Fisher exact test. For each child, immunologic and virologic 
markers were analyzed in parallel closely before clinical onset of PE and 
closely after PE onset and compared by using the Student t test for paired 
samples.
RESULTS: Overall, mortality of 58 HIV-1-infected children who developed PE was 
significantly higher than of children who did not develop this complication. 
Blood CD8(+) T-lymphocytes <25% in the first months of life suggested a relative 
risk of progressing to PE 4-fold higher than those with CD8(+) >25% (95% 
confidence interval: 1.2-13.9) and remained statistically significant after 
adjustment for treatment. When we compared the PE-positive group with the 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)/PE-negative group (children who 
developed clinical category C and without neurologic manifestations) in a 
cross-sectional study within 12 months before PE or AIDS diagnosis, 
respectively, the %CD8(+) T-lymphocytes were significantly lower in the 
PE-positive group. Normalized absolute counts of CD8(+) T-lymphocytes with 
respect to seroreverting children were significantly lower in the group of 
children with encephalopathy with respect to the AIDS/PE-negative group (data 
not shown). It is interesting that a statistically significant increase was 
observed in circulating monocyte percentages and absolute counts shortly before 
the first neurologic symptoms compared with values after PE was established and 
with those from HIV-1-infected controls. With respect to AIDS-related events, PE 
was strongly associated with anemia and lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis in the 
PE-positive group with respect to a group of children with AIDS but without PE.
CONCLUSION: HIV-1 infection of the central nervous system (CNS) remains an 
important clinical concern. The first step toward PE prevention in 
HIV-1-infected children should be directed at predicting risk of PE and thus the 
prompt and reliable identification of infants who are at risk for CNS disease 
progression. Low blood CD8(+) T-lymphocytes is a strong early predictive marker 
of PE emergence in vertical HIV-1 infection. Indeed, among all of the 
immunologic and virologic variables assessed in this observational study, the 
only significant difference during the first months of life are the CD8(+) 
T-lymphocytes. A peak of significantly higher peripheral monocytes before the 
onset of PE with respect to established PE has not been previously described, 
and strengthens the growing evidence that an increased traffic of monocytes to 
the brain may be a key factor in triggering neurologic symptoms. The suppression 
of HIV-1 replication is dependent on the presence of a relatively small number 
of HIV-1-specifof HIV-1-specific CD8(+) T-lymphocytes, and it is possible that 
the duration of the neurologically asymptomatic phase for any given child may 
depend mostly on the magnitude of specific CD8(+) T-lymphocyte responses. Thus, 
a decrease of CD8(+) T-lymphocytes would diminish the host capacity to control 
viral infection, as reported in animal models, enabling infected macrophages to 
cross the blood-brain barrier. Our results advocate the use of CD8(+) 
T-lymphocyte and monocyte counts to follow-up HIV-1-infected children. We 
suggest that CD8(+) T-lymphocytes may be the nexus for many different aspects of 
the disease, namely loss of control of HIV-1 replication determining higher VL, 
increased traffic of activated and/or infected monocytes, spread of infection to 
immune sanctuaries, and finally clinical neurologic emergence of PE. Moreover, 
we suggest that CD8(+) T-lymphocytes or/and monocytes may be used as putative 
biological markers of neuropathogenicity. This might suggest their use in 
decision making of when to start more effective antiretroviral regimens for 
HIV-1 infection of the CNS and the need of new therapies either to preserve or 
to augment an adequate CD8(+) T-lymphocyte immune response. Early detection of 
children who are at risk for developing PE is particularly important because 
aggressive highly active antiretroviral therapy improves neurologic symptoms, 
allows possible use of neuroprotective treatment to prevent further development 
of encephalopathy, and emphasizes the relevance of developing therapies aimed to 
enhance CD8(+) T-lymphocyte function. In conclusion, the surrogate markers 
routinely used in clinical practice for HIV-1 infection (ie, CD4(+) T-lymphocyte 
counts and VL) seem to be insufficient to evaluate the clinical involvement of 
the CNS. Other systemic markers, as the recent proposed markers for PE evolution 
(cerebrospinal fluid VL by lumbar puncture and brain atrophy by cerebral 
magnetic resonance imaging) are undoubtedly more invasive than measuring CD8(+) 
T-lymphocyte and monocyte counts, when the neurologic manifestations of PE are 
still preventable.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.111.2.e168
PMID: 12563091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J Vasc Surg. 2003 Feb;37(2):353-61. doi: 10.1067/mva.2003.84.

Renal autotransplantation for vascular disease: late outcome according to 
etiology.

Chiche L(1), Kieffer E, Sabatier J, Colau A, Koskas F, Bahnini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re University Hospital, Paris, 
France.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late outcomes 
of renal autotransplantation (RAT) according to the etiology of the underlying 
renal artery disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between January 1985 and April 2001, we performed 68 RAT 
procedures in 57 patients. The surgical indications were fibromuscular dysplasia 
(FMD) for 34 RAT procedures in 30 patients (11 men, 19 women; mean age, 41.3 +/- 
14.6 years), Takayasu's disease (TD) for 26 RAT procedures in 19 patients (five 
men, 14 women; mean age, 33.0 +/- 12.3 years), and atherosclerosis for eight RAT 
procedures in eight patients (seven men, one woman; mean age, 66.5 +/- 7.9 
years). The incidence rate of hypertension was 87% in patients with FMD and 100% 
in patients with TD and atherosclerosis. The incidence rate of renal dysfunction 
was 75% in patients with atherosclerosis, 27% in patients with FMD, and 16% in 
patients with TD. Autotransplantation was isolated in 31 cases and was 
associated with another vascular procedure in 37 cases, including 22 
thoracoabdominal aorta repairs and 11 abdominal aorta or iliac artery repairs. 
The technique used to achieve renal revascularization was direct reimplantation 
in 17 cases and indirect reimplantation in 51 cases. The conduit used for 
indirect reimplantation was an arterial autograft in 42 cases, a vein autograft 
in seven cases, and a prosthetic graft in two cases. Simultaneous 
revascularization of the contralateral kidney was performed in 21 patients and 
included nine RAT procedures. Contralateral nephrectomy was performed in five 
patients.
RESULTS: In the FMD group, early segmental infarction was observed in four 
cases. Secondary nephrectomy was necessary in one case (at 88 months). Actuarial 
survival rates were 96.2% +/- 0.03% at 5 years and 84.1% +/- 0.11% at 10 years. 
Secondary patency rates were 100% at 5 years and 92% +/- 0.07% at 10 years. 
Hypertension normalized or improved in 96% of patients. Renal function improved 
in 50% of patients. In the TD group, one patient died of multiple organ failure 
4 days after the procedure. Nephrectomy was necessary in one case. The actuarial 
survival rate was 94.7% +/- 0.05% and the secondary patency rate was 91.3% +/- 
0.05% at both 5 and 10 years. Hypertension normalized or improved in 89% of the 
cases, and kidney function improved in all cases. In the atherosclerosis group, 
nephrectomy was necessary during the early postoperative period in three cases 
and during late follow-up in two cases (at 9 months and at 68 months, 
respectively). Actuarial survival rates were 54.7% +/- 0.2% at 5 years and 18.2% 
+/- 0.16% at 10 years. The secondary patency rates were 50.0% +/- 0.17% at 5 
years and 33.3% +/- 0.18% at 10 years. Hypertension normalized or improved in 
50% of cases, and kidney function improved in 33% of cases.
CONCLUSION: RAT is highly effective for treatment of complex renovascular 
lesions related to FMD and TD. Although RAT is less effective for 
atherosclerosis, it may be the only alternative in cases involving extensive 
renovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2003.84
PMID: 12563206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Surgery. 2003 Jan;133(1):5-12. doi: 10.1067/msy.2003.122.

Determining an appropriate threshold for referral to surgery for 
gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Liu JY(1), Finlayson SR, Laycock WS, Rothstein RI, Trus TL, Pohl H, Birkmeyer 
JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, VA Medical Center, White River Junction, VT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Persistent symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) can be 
treated with medication or surgery. The purposes of this study were (1) to 
determine how poor the quality of life on medication would need to be to justify 
assuming the risks of surgery, and (2) to estimate the proportion of patients 
currently on medication whose quality of life is below this value.
METHODS: We developed a Markov decision analysis model to simulate health 
outcomes (measured in quality adjusted life years [QALY]) over 10 years for 
medication and surgery in patients with typical GERD symptoms. We included 
probabilities of events obtained from a systematic literature review. Quality of 
life adjustments, expressed as utilities, were drawn from a survey of 131 
patients 1 to 5 years after antireflux surgery. By using this model, we 
calculated what quality of life on medications would change the optimal strategy 
from medication to surgery (threshold). To determine the proportion of patients 
below this value, we prospectively surveyed 40 medically treated GERD patients 
at our hospital.
RESULTS: Surgery resulted in more QALYs than medical therapy when the utility 
with medication use was below 0.90. Sensitivity analysis showed this value to be 
relatively insensitive to reasonable variations in surgical risks (mortality, 
failures, reoperation) and quality of life after surgery. Among those surveyed 
on medications, 48% fell below this threshold and would be predicted to benefit 
from surgery.
CONCLUSION: Our model suggests that surgery would likely benefit a high 
proportion of medically treated GERD patients. Individual assessment of quality 
of life with GERD should be considered to aid clinical decision making.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2003.122
PMID: 12563232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Health Econ. 2003 Feb;12(2):165-9. doi: 10.1002/hec.718.

Double discounting of QALYs.

MacKeigan LD(1), Gafni A, O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
l.mackeigan@utoronto.ca

Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) calculated from time tradeoff (TTO) based 
preferences have a time preference component. To impose a conventional discount 
rate on these implicitly discounted QALYs introduces some degree of double 
discounting. The purpose of this study was to determine the magnitude of the 
double discounting effect and the effectiveness of a suggested method for 
avoiding double discounting in a TTO-based QALY model. Our analysis used 
holistic and composite preference scores obtained with the TTO technique in a 
prior study of four hypothetical treatment paths in type 2 diabetes. Discounted 
composite preference scores were significantly discrepant from holistic 
preference scores. Adjusting TTO-based quality weights prior to external 
discounting reduced the discrepancy only slightly. Since time preference effects 
may vary with health state context, the double discounting effect needs further 
investigation.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.718
PMID: 12563665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Commun Dis Public Health. 2002 Dec;5(4):343.

Varicella vaccination--an ethical issue.

Smithson R.

Comment on
    Commun Dis Public Health. 2002 Sep;5(3):185-6.

PMID: 12564257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Dig Dis. 2002;20(3-4):253-6. doi: 10.1159/000067676.

Indications for percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy insertion: ethical aspects.

Niv Y(1), Abuksis G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, Tel 
Aviv University, Petach Tikva, Israel. yniv@clalit.org.il

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is a popular technique for long-term 
enteral nutrition. However it is not beneficial in all cases, and may even 
prolong the process of dying. The present article discusses the main indications 
for PEG insertion, and the ethical considerations involved. Three main questions 
need to be answered: (1) for what purposes should PEG be used; (2) for what type 
of patients, and (3) when should PEG be inserted in the natural history of the 
patient's illness? PEG is used in patients unable to maintain sufficient oral 
intake. It has been found to improve quality of life and/or to increase survival 
in patients with head and neck cancer, acute stroke, neurogenic and muscle 
dystrophy syndrome, growth failure (children) and gastric decompression. It led 
to no improvement in nutritional or functional status in patients with cachexia, 
anorexia, aspiration (and aspiration pneumonia), and cancer with a short life 
expectancy. Several court decisions have stipulated that PEG need be offered in 
patients in a persistent vegetative state or patients with senile dementia who 
have lost the ability for self-determination. Since the 30-day mortality after 
PEG insertion is very high for patients hospitalized in a general medical 
center, a 'cooling off' period of 30-60 days should be scheduled from the time 
of the PEG request to actual insertion.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000067676
PMID: 12566609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2003 Jan;53(1):41-50. doi: 
10.1080/10473289.2003.10466118.

Interpretation of air pollution mortality: number of deaths or years of life 
lost?

Rabl A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'EnergÃ©tique, Ecole des Mines de Paris, France. rabl@cenerg.ensmp.fr

This paper examines the relation between the results of epidemiologic studies of 
air pollution mortality and impact indicators that can be informative for 
environmental policy decisions. Using models that are simple and transparent, 
yet contain the essential features, it is shown that (1) number of deaths is not 
meaningful for air pollution, whereas loss of life expectancy (LLE) is an 
appropriate impact indicator; (2) the usual short-term (time series) studies 
yield a change in daily number of deaths attributable to acute effects of 
pollution, without any information on the associated LLE (although some 
information on this has recently become available by extending the observation 
window of time series); and (3) long-term studies yield a change in age-specific 
mortality, which makes it possible to calculate the total population averaged 
LLE (acute and chronic effects) but not the total number of premature deaths 
attributable to air pollution. The latter is unobservable because one cannot 
distinguish whether few individuals suffer a large or many suffer a small LLE. 
The paper calculates the LLE from exposure to PM10, as implied by the long-term 
mortality studies of adults and infants; population LLE for infants turns out to 
be an order of magnitude smaller than for adults. The LLE implied by short-term 
studies is a small fraction of the total loss implied by long-term studies, even 
if one assumes a very high loss per death. Applied to environmental policy, 
taking a permanent 50-70% reduction of PM10 as a reasonable goal, one finds a 
corresponding increase of average life expectancy in urban areas of the European 
Union (EU) and the United States of approximately four months.

DOI: 10.1080/10473289.2003.10466118
PMID: 12568252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Arch Bronconeumol. 2002 Dec;38(12):580-4. doi:
10.1016/s0300-2896(02)75294-0.

[Low-weight syndrome associated with COPD in our setting].

[Article in Spanish]

Coronel C(1), Orozco-Levi M, RamÃ­rez-Sarmiento A, MartÃ­nez-Llorens J, Broquetas 
J, Gea J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de NeumologÃ­a. Hospital del Mar-IMIM. Universidad Pompeu Fabra 
(UPF). Barcelona. EspaÃ±a.

The high prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has 
considerable economic and health-related impact. The consequences arise largely 
from limitations on a patient's activity and shortened life expectancy. Low body 
weight has recently been implicated as a factor affecting limitations. Although 
the reason is not clear, weight loss appears to affect many patients (from 25 to 
35% in different series), at least in Europe and North America. However, the 
situation is thought to be different in the Mediterranean area.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of the low weight syndrome in patients 
with COPD in our area.
METHODS: COPD patient characteristics monitored by our laboratory over the last 
two years (2000 and 2001) were reviewed.
RESULTS: The prevalence of a body mass index (BMI) less than 20 kg/m2 was only 
6.6% among the 3,126 patients studied. That percentage fell to 3.1% with a 
cutoff of 18 kg/m2. The figure was even more striking if we consider that half 
the patients had severe disease (FEV1 < 50% of reference). BMI was directly 
related to FEV1/FC and CO transfer.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that COPD patients in our geographic area 
have characteristics that distinguish them from those previously described in 
other countries. Specifically, the prevalence of low weight syndrome in our area 
appears to be lower. However, larger studies should be performed to confirm this 
finding.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2896(02)75294-0
PMID: 12568703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2003 Feb 5;95(3):188. doi: 10.1093/jnci/95.3.188.

Animal models offer insights into human brain tumors.

McCann J.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/95.3.188
PMID: 12569138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2003 Feb 5;95(3):222-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/95.3.222.

Single- versus multiple-fraction radiotherapy in patients with painful bone 
metastases: cost-utility analysis based on a randomized trial.

van den Hout WB(1), van der Linden YM, Steenland E, Wiggenraad RG, Kievit J, de 
Haes H, Leer JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands. W.B.van_den_Hout@LUMC.NL

BACKGROUND: Radiotherapy is an effective palliative treatment for cancer 
patients with painful bone metastases. Although single- and multiple-fraction 
radiotherapy are thought to provide equal palliation, which treatment schedule 
provides better value for the money is unknown. We compared quality-adjusted 
life expectancy (the overall valuation of the health of the patients) and 
societal costs for patients receiving either single- or multiple-fraction 
radiotherapy.
METHODS: A societal cost-utility analysis was performed on a Dutch randomized, 
controlled trial of 1157 patients with painful bone metastases that compared 
pain responses and quality of life from a single-fraction treatment schedule of 
8 Gy with a treatment schedule of six fractions of 4 Gy each. The societal 
values of life expectancies were assessed with the EuroQol classification system 
(EQ-5D) questionnaire. A subset of 166 patients also answered additional 
questionnaires to estimate nonradiotherapy and nonmedical costs. Statistical 
tests were two-sided.
RESULTS: Comparing the single- and multiple-fraction radiotherapy schedules, no 
differences were found in life expectancy (43.0 versus 40.4 weeks, P =.20) or 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (17.7 versus 16.0 weeks, P =.21). The estimated 
cost of radiotherapy, including retreatments and nonmedical costs, was 
statistically significantly lower for the single-fraction schedule than for the 
multiple-fraction schedule ($2438 versus $3311, difference = $873, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] on the difference = $449 to $1297; P<.001). The 
estimated difference in total societal costs was larger, also in favor of the 
single-fraction schedule, but it was not statistically significant ($4700 versus 
$6453, difference = $1753, 95% CI on the difference = -$99 to $3604; P =.06). 
For willingness-to-pay between $5000 and $40 000 per quality-adjusted life year, 
the single-fraction schedule was statistically significantly more cost-effective 
than the multiple-fraction schedule (P< or =.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with multiple-fraction radiotherapy, single-fraction 
radiotherapy provides equal palliation and quality of life and has lower medical 
and societal costs, at least in The Netherlands. Therefore, single-fraction 
radiotherapy should be considered as the palliative treatment of choice for 
cancer patients with painful bone metastases.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/95.3.222
PMID: 12569144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Anticancer Drugs. 2003 Feb;14(2):97-102. doi:
10.1097/00001813-200302000-00002.

Colorectal cancer in 2003: old principles, new strategies.

van Halteren HK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Oosterschelde Hospital, Goes, The 
Netherlands. Hvanhalteren@soz.nl

In the last two decades the prognosis of colorectal cancer has improved for two 
reasons: (i) the proportion of patients with localized disease has increased and 
treatment has been standardized, and (ii) new chemotherapeutic agents have led 
to a longer life expectancy for patients with advanced disease. In this review 
the current insights in disease etiology and treatment of localized and 
disseminated colorectal cancer are discussed.

Copyright 2003 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-200302000-00002
PMID: 12569295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Curr Pharm Des. 2003;9(6):455-66. doi: 10.2174/1381612033391603.

Drug-targeting strategies for prostate cancer.

Ast G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Sackler School of 
Medicine,Tel Aviv University, Israel. gilast@post.tau.ac.il

Prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in North American men 
and accounts for 10% of cancer-related deaths in men. Despite advances in early 
detection and aggressive treatment of early disease, the overall mortality rate 
has not appear to have fallen, indicating that the current therapies are not 
beneficial for life expectancy and new strategies are required. Prostate cancer 
is a dynamic evolving process that develops in distinct steps, with each step 
liable to additional genetic hits that change the cancer cell phenotype and 
alter the patterns of gene expression. The molecular events in prostate cancer 
are beginning to be understood, including altered expression of tumor suppressor 
genes, pro- and anti-apoptotic genes, and oncogenes associated with the 
progression of the disease; and specific genes that are expressed predominantly 
or exclusively in prostate cells, prostate cancer cells, and prostate metastasis 
cells. These latter genes on the level of DNA, RNA and protein products are the 
targets of several new approaches to prostate cancer therapy and are the focus 
of this review.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612033391603
PMID: 12570809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Postgrad Med. 2002 Oct-Dec;48(4):322-6.

Attributing death to cancer: cause-specific survival estimation.

Mathew A(1), Pandey M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Regional Cancer Centre, 
Medical College P.O., Trivandrum - 695 011, India. amathew@rcctvm.org

Cancer survival estimation is an important part of assessing the overall 
strength of cancer care in a region. Generally, the death of a patient is taken 
as the end point in estimation of overall survival. When calculating the overall 
survival, the cause of death is not taken into account. With increasing demand 
for better survival of cancer patients it is important for clinicians and 
researchers to know about survival statistics due to disease of interest, i.e. 
net survival. It is also important to choose the best method for estimating net 
survival. Increase in the use of computer programmes has made it possible to 
carry out statistical analysis without guidance from a bio-statistician. This is 
of prime importance in third- world countries as there are a few trained 
bio-statisticians to guide clinicians and researchers. The present communication 
describes current methods used to estimate net survival such as cause-specific 
survival and relative survival. The limitation of estimation of cause-specific 
survival particularly in India and the usefulness of relative survival are 
discussed. The various sources for estimating cancer survival are also 
discussed. As survival-estimates are to be projected on to the population at 
large, it becomes important to measure the variation of the estimates, and thus 
confidence intervals are used. Rothman's confidence interval gives the most 
satisfactory result for survival estimate.

PMID: 12571396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Bull World Health Organ. 2002;80(12):991. Epub 2003 Jan 23.

Risk reduction can add 5-10 years to healthy life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMCID: PMC2567696
PMID: 12571737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Lakartidningen. 2003 Jan 9;100(1-2):36-40.

[Economic assessment based on a clinical study of risedronate. Fracture 
prevention in elderly women with osteoporosis is cost-effective].

[Article in Swedish]

BorgstrÃ¶m F(1), Zethraeus N.

Author information:
(1)Centrum fÃ¶r hÃ¤lsoekonomi, HandelshÃ¶gskolan, Stockholm. 
fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

Based on a clinical study we assessed the cost-effectiveness of treating elderly 
osteoporotic women with the biphosphonate Risedronat in a Swedish environment. 
Costs, health effects and risk of fractures were taken from previously published 
sources. Health effects were measured as Quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
life-years gained. Results were presented with and without costs of added 
life-years. The cost-effectiveness was investigated for two patient groups. The 
first group consisted of elderly osteoporotic women and the second group, which 
was a subgroup of the first, consisted of elderly osteoporotic women with 
previous vertebral fractures. The cost per gained QALY, estimated at SEK 277,209 
(osteoporotic women) and SEK 16,877 (osteoporotic women with a previous 
vertebral fracture) respectively, were in both cases below the threshold value 
of 520,000 SEK, indicating that the treatment was cost-effective in both patient 
groups. In a sensitivity analysis the cost-effectiveness for the group of 
osteoporotic women with previous vertebral fractures showed to be stable for 
variation in the parameters while the group of osteoporotic women showed to be 
more sensitive for variation in some of the parameters.

PMID: 12572135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 6;348(6):560-3; author reply 560-3.

Aspirin, clopidogrel, or both for secondary prevention of coronary disease.

Ramsey SD.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1800-6.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Jun 6;346(23):1819-21.

PMID: 12572583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Eur Respir J Suppl. 2003 Jan;39:45s-51s. doi: 10.1183/09031936.03.00405103.

Guidelines for the use of spiral computed tomography in screening for lung 
cancer.

Henschke CI(1), Yankelevitz DF, McCauley DI, Libby DM, Pasmantier MW, Smith JP.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Radiology, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical 
Center, 525 East 68th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. chensch@amed.cornell.ed

Screening should be considered in lung cancer, more than any other cancer. Not 
only is the disease highly fatal, essentially incurable, when diagnosed on the 
prompting of symptoms and/or clinical signs, but its occurrence is also highly 
concentrated in identifiably high-risk persons. The degree of usefulness of 
computed tomography (CT)-based screening for lung cancer must be thought of in 
reference to a particular, presumably optimal, regimen of pursuing early stage 
diagnosis. This is an algorithm that begins with the initial test ("screening 
CT") and ends in either discontinuation of the diagnostic pursuit or in 
diagnosis of lung cancer. A carefully developed, extensively pilot tested and 
critically reviewed, updated protocol for CT-based screening for lung cancer is 
presented here. Its implementation is addressed, together with quality 
assurance. Finally, the associated curability rate for lung cancer is addressed 
in the light of what is known or can be surmised from evidence already 
available. However, recommendation for or against screening requires further 
information. Principally, the patients risk for lung cancer (in the near future) 
and the patients life expectancy (when spared of death from lung cancer). These 
two factors influence when, if ever, to begin screening, and if it is initiated, 
when to discontinue it. Finally, cost-effectiveness of the screening program 
should also be considered.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.03.00405103
PMID: 12572701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nurs Ethics. 2003 Jan;10(1):4-17. doi: 10.1191/0969733003ne570oa.

The role of older people in our communities.

Shotton L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Philosophy, Faculty of Arts, University of Tasmania at Hobart, GPO 
Box 25241, Hobart 7001, Tasmania. L.Shotton@utas.edu.au

The proportion of older people in the total population is increasing in most 
countries because of advances in medical technology and resulting longer life 
expectancy. The role that older people play in our communities does not reflect 
this. Sometimes they are reduced to mere statistics and stereotypes in economic 
and political discussions on the financial burdens of care for older people. I 
argue that we need to rebuild inclusive munities in which older people are 
respected as valuable members. I suggest that this can be done by studying the 
characteristics of past communities and by learning from the work of 
environmental ethicists who advocate the preservation of our heritage. Nurses 
share with them a holistic perspective on complex issues such as ageing. They 
are therefore in a position to empower older people to play a role in our 
communities as unique individuals with integrity and wisdom.

DOI: 10.1191/0969733003ne570oa
PMID: 12572756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Palliat Med. 2002 Oct;5(5):729-37. doi: 10.1089/109662102320880552.

End-of-life care for terminally ill participants in clinical research.

Agrawal M(1), Danis M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Bioethics, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892-1156, USA.

Comment in
    J Palliat Med. 2002 Oct;5(5):661-5.

Efforts to improve end-of-life care in the United States have paid little 
attention to the unique concerns of participants in clinical research who are 
terminally ill. In this paper we focus attention on and offer an analysis of how 
to meet the needs of these individuals. To address their concerns, we consider 
how to reconcile two important tasks: providing optimal end-of-life care and 
conducting clinical research. First, we examine the inherent tension between the 
goals of medicine and the goals of science. Second, we focus more specifically 
on the tensions between a good death and conducting clinical research in 
patients with a short life expectancy. We examine six domains that have been 
suggested for measuring a good death: physical symptoms; psychological and 
cognitive symptoms; economic and caregiving needs; social relationships; 
spiritual beliefs; hopes and expectations. For each of these domains we examine 
how the goals of clinical research may conflict or coincide with taking care of 
a patient with a terminal illness. Finally, we offer suggestions to address 
these tensions: (1) modify the informed consent discussion for terminally ill 
participants in research; (2) build a palliative care component into clinical 
trials; (3) attend to the needs of family caregivers of terminally ill research 
subjects; (4) arrange for continuity of care so that dropping out of a trial 
does not jeopardize medical care; (5) train clinical investigators in 
end-of-life care; (6) develop a counseling strategy for terminally ill 
participants in clinical research.

DOI: 10.1089/109662102320880552
PMID: 12572972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003 May 15;167(10):1387-92. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.200209-1035OC. Epub 2003 Feb 5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of augmentation therapy for severe 
alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency.

Gildea TR(1), Shermock KM, Singer ME, Stoller JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The Cleveland Clinic 
Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

A Markov-based decision model was created to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
augmentation therapy (Aug) for severe alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency, comparing 
strategies of: (1) no Aug, (2) Aug for life, and (3) Aug until FEV1 is below 35% 
predicted. A hypothetical cohort of 46-year-old patients with FEV1 49% predicted 
was followed over time using Monte Carlo simulation across five possible health 
states: (1) FEV1 50 to 79% predicted, (2) FEV1 35 to 49% predicted, (3) FEV1 
below 35% predicted, (4) status-post-lung transplantation, and (5) dead. 
Treatment for life yielded 7.19 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and cost 
895,243 dollars. Treating until FEV1 is below 35% predicted cost 511,930 dollars 
and produced 6.64 QALYs. "No Aug" cost 92,091 dollars with 4.62 QALYs. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 207,841 dollars/QALY for Aug until FEV1 
is below 35% predicted and 312,511 dollars/QALY for the "Aug for life" strategy. 
In all sensitivity analyses, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for Aug 
for life exceeded 100,000 dollars. The cost of Aug needed to be reduced from 
54,765 dollars to 4,900 dollars for the "Aug for life" strategy to be considered 
cost-effective. We conclude that, compared with other conventionally used health 
interventions, Aug is relatively less cost-effective. These results should 
encourage the development of more clinically and cost-effective therapies for 
alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.200209-1035OC
PMID: 12574076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Thromb Haemost. 2003 Feb;89(2):228-34.

Complete compression ultrasonography of the leg veins as a single test for the 
diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis.

Schellong SM(1), Schwarz T, Halbritter K, Beyer J, Siegert G, Oettler W, Schmidt 
B, Schroeder HE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Angiology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University Dresden, Fetscherstrasse Dresden, Germany. 
sebastian.schellong@mailbox.tu-dresden.de

Comment in
    Thromb Haemost. 2003 Feb;89(2):206-7.

Noninvasive diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is based on ultrasound 
examination of the leg veins, usually restricted to only compression of the 
proximal veins (CUS). Patients with negative CUS findings require a second 
examination or a combination with other tests, which impairs clinical 
efficiency. In this prospective outcome study, 1646 consecutive patients with 
clinically suspected DVT were examined once by a standardized protocol of 
complete compression ultrasound comprising all proximal and distal veins (CCUS) 
as the only diagnostic test. The examination was equivocal in 15 patients (1% 
technical failure rate). Another 366 patients (22%) were tested positive for 
proximal DVT, distal DVT, muscle vein thrombosis, or phlebitis. Of 1265 patients 
in whom CCUS findings were negative, 242 met exclusion criteria for follow-up 
(age <18, life expectancy <3 months, other reasons for anticoagulation, 
postthrombotic lesions of the leg veins, or lack of informed consent). During 
the 3 months of follow-up, three of 1023 patients with negative CCUS findings 
experienced a symptomatic venous thromboembolic event (0.3% [95% CI 0.1%-0.8%]). 
We conclude that the CCUS protocol has a low technical failure rate and is safe 
with respect to excluding DVT, thereby reducing the diagnostic workup of 
patients with suspected DVT to a single ultrasound examination.

PMID: 12574800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2003 Feb;41(1):32-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0266-4356(02)00285-1.

A cost-utility analysis of patients undergoing orthognathic treatment for the 
management of dentofacial disharmony.

Cunningham SJ(1), Sculpher M, Sassi F, Manca A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Health Care 
Sciences, University College London, London, UK. s.cunningham@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION: Management of dentofacial discrepancies using orthognathic 
treatment is now a common procedure in the United Kingdom. Although the benefits 
of orthognathic intervention are often considered, the cost implications have 
not been investigated to our knowledge. This study is a cost-utility analysis of 
orthognathic treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-one patients were interviewed five times during 
treatment using the time trade-off (TTO) method to establish utility values. 
Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained as a result of treatment were 
calculated and discounted. The resource use was calculated for each of the 21 
patients individually and the costs subjected to both a sensitivity analysis and 
discounting. The incremental mean cost per additional QALY was calculated (as 
compared with a 'no treatment' approach).
RESULTS: The incremental cost for each additional QALY was 561 pounds sterling 
for the groups combined, based on mean additional costs and QALYs (546 pounds 
sterling for the bimaxillary group and 617 pounds sterling for the single jaw 
