differences because men average about 8.0% taller than women and have a 7.9% 
lower life expectancy at birth. Animal experiments also show that smaller 
animals within the same species generally live longer. The relation between 
height and health has become more important in recent years because rapid 
developments in genetic engineering will offer parents the opportunity to 
increase the heights of their children in the near future. The authors contend 
that we should not be swept along into a new world of increasingly taller 
generations without careful consideration of the impact of a worldwide 
population of taller and heavier people.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(02)02503-1
PMID: 12586217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. BMJ. 2003 Feb 15;326(7385):388-92. doi: 10.1136/bmj.326.7385.388.

Problems with UK government's risk sharing scheme for assessing drugs for 
multiple sclerosis.

Sudlow CL(1), Counsell CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Edinburgh, Western 
General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU. csudlow@skull.dcn.ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2003 May 31;326(7400):1212-3.
    BMJ. 2003 May 31;326(7400):1212.
    BMJ. 2003 May 31;326(7400):1213.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.326.7385.388
PMCID: PMC1125245
PMID: 12586677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Genetics. 2003 Jan;163(1):35-46. doi: 10.1093/genetics/163.1.35.

SOD2 functions downstream of Sch9 to extend longevity in yeast.

Fabrizio P(1), Liou LL, Moy VN, Diaspro A, Valentine JS, Gralla EB, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089-0191, USA.

Signal transduction pathways inactivated during periods of starvation are 
implicated in the regulation of longevity in organisms ranging from yeast to 
mammals, but the mechanisms responsible for life-span extension are poorly 
understood. Chronological life-span extension in S. cerevisiae cyr1 and sch9 
mutants is mediated by the stress-resistance proteins Msn2/Msn4 and Rim15. Here 
we show that mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (Sod2) is required for survival 
extension in yeast. Deletion of SOD2 abolishes life-span extension in sch9Delta 
mutants and decreases survival in cyr1:mTn mutants. The overexpression of 
Sods--mitochondrial Sod2 and cytosolic CuZnSod (Sod1)--delays the age-dependent 
reversible inactivation of mitochondrial aconitase, a superoxide-sensitive 
enzyme, and extends survival by 30%. Deletion of the RAS2 gene, which functions 
upstream of CYR1, also doubles the mean life span by a mechanism that requires 
Msn2/4 and Sod2. These findings link mutations that extend chronological life 
span in S. cerevisiae to superoxide dismutases and suggest that the induction of 
other stress-resistance genes regulated by Msn2/4 and Rim15 is required for 
maximum longevity extension.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/163.1.35
PMCID: PMC1462415
PMID: 12586694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 Feb;58(2):190-1. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/58.2.m190.

The network for elderly care in Italy: only a correct use of acute wards allows 
an overall functioning of the health care system.

Rozzini R, Sabatini T, Trabucchi M.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/58.2.m190
PMID: 12586859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Minerva Anestesiol. 2002 Dec;68(12):919-29.

[Percutaneous cervical cordotomy in the therapy of incidence pain].

[Article in Italian]

Mameli S(1), Frau L, Orrù A, Marchi A, Corbucci GG.

Author information:
(1)Servizio Terapia Antalgica, Ospedale Businco, ASL n. 8, Cagliari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Incident pain does not respond to opioid treatment and it is not 
easily relieved with other therapeutic strategies (local intrapleural or spinal 
analgesia, phenol blocks etc.). For this reason cervical percutaneous cordotomy 
at C(1)-C(2) interspace is the only effective antalgic therapy in patients whose 
life expectancy is more than three to six months.
METHODS: This study is a rectrospective review of 22 patients with cancer and 
incident pain from brachial, lumbar-sacral plexus injury and gluteal ulcer.
RESULTS: Cordotomy provided excellent contralateral side pain relief in 21 
patients; pain relief was maintained up to death and to the moment of last 
observation in living patients. In one deaf patient it was impossible to carry 
out the procedure due to incomplete co-operation and pain returned after 48 
hours. Ventilatory depression caused death in one patient. Other complications 
recorded included ataxia, headache, motor deficit, dysesthesia and orthostatic 
hypotension.
CONCLUSIONS: The conclusion is drawn that percutaneous cordotomy should, in 
carefully selected cases, be considered the only technique to relieve incident 
pain.

PMID: 12586992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2002 Nov;12(5):305-12. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892002001100003.

[Change in life expectancy in connection with three large groups of causes of 
death in Medellín, Colombia, between 1989-1991 and 1994-1996].

[Article in Spanish]

Grisales Romero H(1), Estrada Bedoya GS, Aristizábal Velásquez ME, Posada Marín 
M.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Antioquia, Facultad Nacional de Salud Pública, Medellín, 
Colombia. hgrisales@guajiros.udea.edu.co

OBJECTIVES: To examine changes in life expectancy in Medellin, Colombia, between 
1989-1991 y 1994-1996, in connection with four large groups of causes of death 
commonly employed in studies on the burden of disease: group 1, communicable 
diseases, perinatal and maternal health problems, and nutritional deficits; 
group 2, non-communicable diseases; group 3, wounds; group 4, ill-defined 
causes. The latter were excluded from the analysis because of their ambiguity.
METHODS: The calculations were made according to the method described by J. H. 
Pollard in 1986, with the aid of Microsoft Excel, by using the recommended 
formulas. The computations were double checked with EPIDAT (version 3.0, 
unofficial).
RESULTS: Between 1989-1991 y 1994-1996, a total gain of 1.93 years in life 
expectancy was seen in Medellin, with a rise from 62.13 to 64.06 years. The gain 
was greater in men than in women (2.42 vs. 1.09 years, respectively). The 
increase noted among females was greatest in the extreme age groups (girls 1 to 
4 and women over 54 years of age); in men, it was highest in the middle years 
(between the ages of 25 and 44). In both sexes, the greatest percentage loss in 
life expectancy was seen in persons 15 to 19 years of age (23% in men and 4% in 
women, roughly). In the group comprising communicable diseases, perinatal and 
maternal health problems, and nutritional deficits, a loss in life expectancy 
was seen in men (0.04 years), whereas in the group of non-communicable diseases 
there was a gain in life expectancy in both sexes (0.60 years among men and 0.55 
years among women). The greater gain in life expectancy among men was linked to 
a reduction in mortality from wounds (1.98 years).
CONCLUSIONS: If one compares the results obtained in Medellin at the end of the 
study period with life expectancy at birth in Colombia in 1995, which was 70 
years, it is obvious that life expectancy in Medellin is still lagging behind, 
even though it has risen progressively over the years. This is in keeping with 
the epidemiological transition the city has experienced, which has been linked 
with a rise in mortality from degenerative and cardiovascular diseases, chronic 
respiratory ailments, and diabetes, as well as from diseases resulting from 
human activity. Nevertheless, this epidemiological transition has been slow in 
Medellin when compared to Colombia as a whole due to high rates of death from 
infectious and parasitic diseases, which are more characteristic of the 
transition in its earlier stages. Despite the fact that mortality from wounds 
has decreased in Medellin, particularly among young males, it may be worthwhile 
to reassess the effectiveness of interventions undertaken in recent years to 
promote peaceful coexistence and tolerance in the community.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892002001100003
PMID: 12587222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Cancer Radiother. 2002 Nov;6 Suppl 1:105s-113s. doi: 
10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00226-3.

[Preoperative chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy for non-small-cell bronchial 
cancers].

[Article in French]

Milleron B(1), Mornex F, Martin E, Epaud C, Massiani MA.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, hôpital Tenon, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris, 
France. bernard.milleron@tnn.ap-hop-paris.fr

The very disappointing results obtained by surgery in resectable non-small-cell 
lung cancer have led to a high active clinical research concerning pre- or 
postoperative treatment. Preoperative treatment has several distincts goals: to 
increase survival for patients suitable for surgery, to limit surgery or 
transform borderline or non resectable cancer into resectable tumors. Available 
datas on preoperative treatments for non-small-cell lung cancer provide from 
three types of therapeutics trials: 1/Some phase II studies of neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy have demonstrated that the neoadjuvant approach was feasible, and 
didn't compromise surgery. 2/Phase II trials of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, 
performed for the majority on more extensive cancers, have demonstrated that 
this approach was also feasible at the expense of higher but still tolerable 
toxicity. 3/Phase III randomised published trials exclusively deal with 
preoperative chemotherapy with different results: two of them concerned a small 
number of patients presenting with non-small-cell lung stage IIIA cancer: they 
are positive. The third concerned 373 patients presenting with stage I, II, IIIA 
cancer: the three-year survival was increased by 11%, but this difference is not 
yet significant. The benefit essentially appeared for stage I and II. One trial 
comparing preoperative chemotherapy and radiochemotherapy has been reported, 
concluding to the superiority of the association. These observations suggest 
that the clinical research should now be different for stages I and II, and 
stage IIIA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00226-3
PMID: 12587388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Mar;51(3):364-70. doi:
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51110.x.

Estimating hip fracture morbidity, mortality and costs.

Braithwaite RS(1), Col NF, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Decision Sciences and Clinical Systems Modeling, Division of 
General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. 
Braithwaiters@msx.upmc.edu

OBJECTIVES: To estimate lifetime morbidity, mortality, and costs from hip 
fracture incorporating the effect of deficits in activities of daily living.
DESIGN: Markov computer cohort simulation considering short- and long-term 
outcomes attributable to hip fractures. Data estimates were based on published 
literature, and costs were based primarily on Medicare reimbursement rates.
SETTING: Postacute hospital facility.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-year-old community dwellers with hip fractures.
MEASUREMENTS: Life expectancy, nursing facility days, and costs.
RESULTS: Hip fracture reduced life expectancy by 1.8 years or 25% compared with 
an age- and sex-matched general population. About 17% of remaining life was 
spent in a nursing facility. The lifetime attributable cost of hip fracture was 
$81,300, of which nearly half (44%) related to nursing facility expenses. The 
development of deficits in ADLs after hip fracture resulted in substantial 
morbidity, mortality, and costs.
CONCLUSION: Hip fractures result in significant mortality, morbidity, and costs. 
The estimated lifetime cost for all hip fractures in the United States in 1997 
likely exceeded $20 billion. These results emphasize the importance of current 
and future interventions to decrease the incidence of hip fracture.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51110.x
PMID: 12588580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Mar 4;100(5):2911-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0536856100. Epub 2003 Feb 14.

Dietary restriction normalizes glucose metabolism and BDNF levels, slows disease 
progression, and increases survival in huntingtin mutant mice.

Duan W(1), Guo Z, Jiang H, Ware M, Li XJ, Mattson MP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes 
of Health, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

In addition to neurological deficits, Huntington's disease (HD) patients and 
transgenic mice expressing mutant human huntingtin exhibit reduced levels of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor, hyperglycemia, and tissue wasting. We show 
that the progression of neuropathological (formation of huntingtin inclusions 
and apoptotic protease activation), behavioral (motor dysfunction), and 
metabolic (glucose intolerance and tissue wasting) abnormalities in huntingtin 
mutant mice, an animal model of HD, are retarded when the mice are maintained on 
a dietary restriction (DR) feeding regimen resulting in an extension of their 
life span. DR increases levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the 
protein chaperone heat-shock protein-70 in the striatum and cortex, which are 
depleted in HD mice fed a normal diet. The suppression of the pathogenic 
processes by DR in HD mice suggests that mutant huntingtin promotes neuronal 
degeneration by impairing cellular stress resistance, and that the body wasting 
in HD is driven by the neurodegenerative process. Our findings suggest a dietary 
intervention that may suppress the disease process and increase the life span of 
humans that carry the mutant huntingtin gene.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0536856100
PMCID: PMC151440
PMID: 12589027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2003 Feb;111(2):278-84. doi: 10.1067/mai.2003.54.

Omalizumab improves asthma-related quality of life in patients with severe 
allergic asthma.

Finn A(1), Gross G, van Bavel J, Lee T, Windom H, Everhard F, Fowler-Taylor A, 
Liu J, Gupta N.

Author information:
(1)National Allergy, Asthma and Urticaria Centers of Charleston, Charleston, 
South Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: We have previously shown that omalizumab, a recombinant humanized 
monoclonal anti-IgE antibody, reduces asthma exacerbations and decreases inhaled 
corticosteroid (ICS) requirement in patients with severe allergic asthma who 
were symptomatic despite moderate-to-high doses of ICSs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of omalizumab 
on asthma-related quality of life (QOL).
METHODS: These analyses were part of a multicenter, 52-week, randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the efficacy, safety, and 
tolerability of subcutaneous omalizumab (> or =0.016 mg/kg of IgE [in 
international unit per milliliter] per 4 weeks) in 525 adults with severe 
allergic asthma. A 16-week steroid-stable phase was followed by a 12-week 
steroid-reduction phase and a 24-week double-blind extension phase. The effect 
of treatment on asthma-related QOL was evaluated by using the Asthma Quality of 
Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) administered at baseline and at weeks 16, 28, and 52.
RESULTS: The 2 treatment groups were comparable in terms of baseline AQLQ 
scores. At weeks 16, 28, and 52, omalizumab-treated patients demonstrated 
statistically significant improvements across all AQLQ domains, as well as in 
overall score. Moreover, a greater proportion of patients receiving omalizumab 
achieved a clinically meaningful improvement in asthma-related QOL during each 
phase of the study. Greater than 50% of both patients and investigators rated 
treatment similarly with omalizumab as excellent or good compared with less than 
40% of placebo recipients.
CONCLUSION: In patients requiring moderate-to-high doses of ICSs for severe 
allergic asthma, the measurably improved disease control afforded by add-on 
omalizumab therapy is paralleled by clinically meaningful improvements in 
asthma-related QOL.

DOI: 10.1067/mai.2003.54
PMID: 12589345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003 Jan;56(1):88-93. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00531-0.

Long-term survival and cause-specific mortality in patients with cirrhosis of 
the liver: a nationwide cohort study in Denmark.

Sørensen HT(1), Thulstrup AM, Mellemkjar L, Jepsen P, Christensen E, Olsen JH, 
Vilstrup H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine V (Hepatology and Gastroenterology), Aarhus University 
Hospital, Nørrebrogade 44, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. hts@soci.au.dk

Mortality from cirrhosis of the liver has been examined in few long-term 
follow-up studies. In the Danish National Registry of Patients, 1982-1989, we 
identified a cohort of 10,154 patients with liver cirrhosis and divided them 
according to the etiology of their liver disease. Causes of death were 
identified in the Danish Death Registry, 1982-1993. We estimated relative 
survival and standardized mortality ratios by comparing with the mortality in 
the general population. The 10-year relative survival was worse in patients with 
alcoholic cirrhosis (34%) or nonspecified cirrhosis (32%) than in patients with 
primary biliary cirrhosis (58%) or chronic hepatitis (66%). The standardized 
mortality ratio for all causes of death combined was 12-fold increased, 5-fold 
excluding cirrhosis-related causes. Mortality in all disease categories was 
increased, even in those not traditionally related to cirrhosis. In conclusion, 
patients with cirrhosis of the liver face reduced life expectancy due to several 
causes of death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00531-0
PMID: 12589875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Laparoendosc Adv Surg Tech A. 2002 Dec;12(6):435-9. doi: 
10.1089/109264202762252712.

Development of a novel method of female sterilization: II. Retention of tubal 
screws in patients undergoing simultaneous laparoscopic sterilization.

Hart R(1), Scott P, Ruach M, Magos A.

Author information:
(1)Minimally Invasive Therapy Unit & Endoscopy Training Centre, University 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Free Hospital, Hampstead, 
London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: This study was a long-term follow-up of patients in 
whom hysteroscopic tubal screws had been applied at the time of laparoscopic 
sterilization.
METHODS: Tubal screw application was performed before laparoscopic Filshie clip 
application. Follow-up ultrasonography was arranged 3, 6, and 9 months 
postoperatively to confirm retention. The tubal screws were removed 
hysteroscopically between 12 and 20 months after sterilization under local or 
light general anesthesia.
RESULTS: Thirty-five women agreed to take part in the study. For the purpose of 
analysis, these patients were divided into an initial group (cases 1-20, group 
A) and a later group (cases 21-35, group B). Twenty-three patients had 41 tubal 
screws inserted (18 women had bilateral screw application). Twenty tubal screws 
were removed from 13 patients between 9 and 20 months after insertion, one screw 
remained in situ, and 20 screws had previously been extruded. Life table 
analysis plots demonstrated a marked but nonsignificant difference (P = .163) in 
the duration of tubal screw retention between the initial patients (group A) and 
the later patients (group B): 46.7% versus 76.9% at 6 months and 33% versus 
61.5% at 12 months (P = .09 and P = .11, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Our experience demonstrated improved application and retention with 
experience and refinement of the equipment; however, retention of the tubal 
screws, even in the later stages of development, was poor. A relatively 
noninvasive method of female sterilization remains the ideal, and further 
refinements are required.

DOI: 10.1089/109264202762252712
PMID: 12590725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Eur Heart J. 2003 Feb;24(3):258-65. doi: 10.1016/s0195-668x(02)00429-3.

Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction; prognostic impact of 
early and late shock development.

Lindholm MG(1), Køber L, Boesgaard S, Torp-Pedersen C, Aldershvile J; 
Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation study group.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department B 2142, Division of Cardiology, Rigshospitalet, University 
of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 9, DK 2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2003 Feb;24(3):214-6.

AIMS: Cardiogenic shock accounts for the majority of deaths following acute 
myocardial infarction. The majority of outcome data on this issue are, however, 
derived from single hospitals, referral centers or selected patients in 
randomized studies. The purpose of this study was to investigate incidence, 
outcome and prognostic significance of cardiogenic shock in 6676 consecutive 
patients with acute myocardial infarction.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Demographic and clinical data including the presence of 
cardiogenic shock were prospectively collected in 6676 non-invasively managed 
patients with myocardial infarction consecutively admitted to 27 different 
hospitals during a 2-year period. Six-year mortality data were collected in 
99.9% of the population. Cardiogenic shock developed in 444 patients (6.7%). In 
59% of these patients cardiogenic shock developed within 48 h, 11% developed 
shock during days 3 and 4 and 30% later than 4 days after the infarction. 
Thirty-day and 6-year mortality was 62 and 88% among shock patients compared to 
9 and 45% in non-shock patients. Patients with early shock development (days 
1-2) had a significantly lower 30-day mortality (45%) than those with 
intermediate or late shock development (>80%) (P<0.05). In 30-day survivors, 
survival the following years was lower than in patients without cardiogenic 
shock but with post-infarction heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: In this nationwide prospectively collected registry, non-invasively 
managed consecutive myocardial infarct patients with cardiogenic shock had an 
extremely reduced life expectancy. Every attempt to improve treatment, 
prevention and identification of patients at risk of shock development should be 
strongly encouraged.

DOI: 10.1016/s0195-668x(02)00429-3
PMID: 12590903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nutrition. 2003 Feb;19(2):169-73. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(02)00948-6.

Nutrition, diet, physical activity, smoking, and longevity: from primitive 
hunter-gatherer to present passive consumer--how far can we go?

Walker AR(1), Walker BF, Adam F.

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, School of Pathology of the University of 
the Witwatersrand, and the National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, 
South Africa. alexw@mail.saimr.wits.ac.za

In millennia past, and until recently, among hunter-gatherers and like 
populations, in all populations, in measure, down through the ages, the securing 
of sufficient food was life's primary purpose. Virtually all people were 
physically very active during early life and later in their everyday 
occupations. In contrast, nowadays, in Western populations, with relative 
abundance of food, the way of life is mainly one of enjoyment of meals, of work, 
and of leisure time, in a context of as few as one child per family, and with 
long survival times of about 75 to 80 y, due in large part to much reduced child 
mortality and the effective treatments of disorders and diseases. As to changes 
in food consumption, compared with the erratic and often monotonous fares of the 
past, both far and not so distant, everyday diets have changed tremendously in 
variety, nutritional value, and palatability such that, inter alia, overeating 
is almost inevitable. Compounding the latter, sedentariness is the rule, in 
contrast to the previously very high level of everyday physical activity in the 
masses of populations. In consequence, one speculation is that, by 2230, "all 
Americans will be obese." Although the living of much longer lives is highly 
gratifying, understandably, all wish to have longer "healthy life expectancy," 
i.e. to suffer as little as possible before death. However, with regard to the 
present-day "passive consumer," although the practical recommendations for 
leading still healthier lives, dietarily and non-dietarily, are well known, very 
few are interested, and still fewer practice them. Nevertheless, for the few 
who, with determination, are eager to improve their lifestyles, there could be 
highly profitable lengthening of years of "healthy life expectancy" by eating 
less, eating more plant foods, being much more physically active, and 
restricting non-dietary risk factors (smoking, alcohol consumption).

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(02)00948-6
PMID: 12591555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. CMAJ. 2003 Feb 18;168(4):433-4.

Cost-utility analysis: use QALYs only with great caution.

McGregor M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, McGill University Health 
Centre, Montréal, QC. maurice.mcgregor@mcgil.ca

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2003 May 27;168(11):1394-6; author reply 1396.

PMCID: PMC143549
PMID: 12591784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2002;(12):4-8.

[Health of the working population in the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Trumel' VV.

The article covers topical problem concerning health state of workers in various 
economic branches.

PMID: 12593147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Angiology. 2003 Jan;54(1):119-24. doi: 10.1177/000331970305400116.

Unusual electrocardiographic presentation of an isolated right ventricular 
myocardial infarction secondary to thrombotic occlusion of a non-dominant right 
coronary artery--a case report and brief review of literature.

Carroll R(1), Sharma N, Butt A, Hussain KM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Conemaugh Memorial Medical 
Center, Johnstown, PA 15905, USA.

Isolated right ventricular infarction is an extremely rare phenomenon. Its 
electrocardiographic (ECG) features may be misinterpreted or even missed if not 
suspected. A case of an isolated right ventricular myocardial infarction is 
presented, recognized by ST-segment elevation in a single precordial lead, such 
as V1, aided thereafter by right precordial ECG changes. Immediate coronary 
angiography revealed proximal occlusion of a small non-dominant right coronary 
artery. Coronary intervention as well as infusion of intravenous normal saline 
solution and pressor agent for hypotension provided symptomatic relief, and 
subsequent recovery from this potentially life-threatening, but rare condition. 
Routine 12-lead ECG done approximately 12 hours after the admission showed 
extension of ST segment elevation from V1 trough V3 without any ST-segment 
elevation in inferior leads. This case demonstrates that there might be a very 
unusual ECG appearance in the setting of an isolated right ventricular 
myocardial infarction and can be missed if not immediately suspected. Isolated 
right ventricular myocardial infarction may be difficult to recognize, requiring 
both a high index of clinical suspicion for its presence, as well as careful 
evaluation of unusual ECG features of the disease entity.

DOI: 10.1177/000331970305400116
PMID: 12593505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Mar;56(5):961-71. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00107-7.

Trends in the association between average income, poverty and income inequality 
and life expectancy in Spain.

Regidor E(1), Calle ME, Navarro P, Domínguez V.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Ciudad Universitaria s/n, 28040, Madrid, 
Spain.

In this paper, we study the relation between life expectancy and both average 
income and measures of income inequality in 1980 and 1990, using the 17 Spanish 
regions as units of analysis. Average income was measured as average total 
income per household. The indicators of income inequality used were three 
measures of relative poverty-the percentage of households with total income less 
than 25%, 40% and 50% of the average total household income-the Gini index and 
the Atkinson indices with parameters alpha=1, 1.5 and 2. Pearson and partial 
correlation coefficients were used to evaluate the association between average 
income and measures of income inequality and life expectancy. None of the 
correlation coefficients for the association between life expectancy and average 
household income was significant for men. The association between life 
expectancy and average household income in women, adjusted for any of the 
measures of income inequality, was significant in 1980, although this 
association decreased or disappeared in 1990 after adjusting for measures of 
poverty. In both men and women, the partial correlation coefficients between 
life expectancy and the measures of relative income adjusted for average income 
were positive in 1980 and negative in 1990, although none of them was 
significant. The results with regard to women confirm the hypothesis that life 
expectancy in the developed countries has become more dissociated from average 
income level and more associated with income inequality. The absence of a 
relation in men in 1990 may be due to the large impact of premature mortality 
from AIDS in regions with the highest average total income per household and/or 
smallest income inequality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00107-7
PMID: 12593870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Mar;56(5):1121-33. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00101-6.

Valuing the benefits and costs of health care programmes: where's the 'extra' in 
extra-welfarism?

Birch S(1), Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, Department Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 1200 Main Street West Hamilton, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, L8N 3Z5, Ontario, Canada. birch@fhs.mcmaster.ca

The application of Sen's notion of capabilities to problems of the allocation of 
resources to health in the form of an extra-welfarist framework underlies the 
justification of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as the method for valuing 
the benefits of health care. In this paper we critically appraise this 
application from both conceptual and empirical perspectives. We show that the 
alleged limitations of the welfarist approach are essentially limitations in its 
application, not in the capacity of the approach to accommodate the concerns of 
extra-welfarists. Moreover, the arguments used to justify the application of the 
extra-welfarist framework are essentially welfarist. We demonstrate that the 
methods used to measure QALYs share their basic theoretical roots with welfarist 
valuation methods, such as willingness to pay (WTP). Although QALYs and WTP 
share many challenges, we argue that WTP provides a method which performs better 
with respect to those challenges. In the context of evaluating alternative 
allocations of health care resources we are left asking what is 'extra' in 
extra-welfarism?

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00101-6
PMID: 12593883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Dec;980:287-97. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb04905.x.

Advances in biomedical informatics for the management of cancer.

Haque S(1), Mital D, Srinivasan S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Informatics, School of Health Related Professions, 
University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark 07107, USA. 
haque@umdnj.edu

Increased access to health care, and advances in education and technology have 
resulted in a larger proportion of the population having longer life expectancy. 
The strong correlation between age and cancer has resulted in a major healthcare 
problem for this century, and until recently cancer has defied any long-lasting 
cure. However, progress, especially in the field of biomedical informatics, 
promises a successful prediction and possibly a permanent cure for cancer within 
the next two decades. Biomedical informatics-with its roots in computer science, 
biomedical engineering, biostatistics, and mathematics-helps to bring the 
patient closer to the physician, facilitates access to specialist information 
and knowledge bases across the world, and makes it possible to identify genetic 
expression profiles for malignant or cancerous cells. This paper reviews the new 
research findings in biomedical informatics, working toward the ultimate goal of 
successfully predicting cancer, solving complex problems in prevention and 
treatment of cancer, and perhaps completely curing the scourge of cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2002.tb04905.x
PMID: 12594098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 Mar;57(3):200-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.57.3.200.

Life table methods for quantitative impact assessments in chronic mortality.

Miller BG(1), Hurley JF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine, Edinburgh, UK. brian.miller@iomhq.org.uk

Quantitative health impact assessments of chronic mortality, where the impacts 
are expected to be observed over a number of years, are complicated by the link 
between death rates and surviving populations. A general calculation framework 
for quantitative impact assessment is presented, based on standard life table 
calculation methods, which permits consistent future projections of impacts on 
mortality from changes in death rates. Implemented as a series of linked 
spreadsheets, the framework offers complete flexibility in the sex specific, age 
specific, and year specific patterns of baseline mortality death rates; in the 
predicted impacts upon these; in the weights or values placed on gains in life; 
and in the summary measures of impact. Impacts can be differential by cause of 
death. Some examples are given of predictions of the impacts of reductions in 
chronic mortality in the populations of England and Wales and of Scotland.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.57.3.200
PMCID: PMC1732393
PMID: 12594196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. N Engl J Med. 2003 Feb 20;348(8):755-6; author reply 755-6. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM200302203480815.

Public use of automated external defibrillators.

Cram P, Fendrick AM, Vijan S.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Oct 17;347(16):1223-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Oct 17;347(16):1242-7.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200302203480815
PMID: 12594323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 2003 Feb 20;421(6925):776. doi: 10.1038/421776a.

Dolly's death leaves researchers woolly on clone ageing issue.

Giles J, Knight J.

DOI: 10.1038/421776a
PMID: 12594470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Am J Ind Med. 2003 Mar;43(3):251-61. doi: 10.1002/ajim.10190.

External cause-specific summaries of occupational fatal injuries. Part II: an 
analysis of years of potential life lost.

Bailer AJ(1), Bena JF, Stayner LT, Halperin WE, Park RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio 
45056-1641, USA. baileraj@muohio.edu

BACKGROUND: Fatal injury surveillance data provide an opportunity to assess the 
impact of occupational injuries and may indicate which industries or occupations 
are appreciably more hazardous than others, and thus should be given priority in 
public health intervention.
METHODS: Fatalities from the National Traumatic Occupational Fatality 
surveillance system served as the basis for examining external cause (E-code) 
specific impact summaries. Years of potential life lost (YPLL) were calculated 
for fatal injuries in the years 1983-1994. Industries and occupations were 
compared with respect to frequency of fatal injuries. In addition, injuries in 
categories of external causes are examined across all industries and 
occupations.
RESULTS: Machinery, electric current, homicide, falls, and 
transportation-related are the external cause groups highlighted by high 
frequency/rate of occurrence. Electric current event groups are also 
characterized by high average YPLL. Poisoning, conflagration, and lightning were 
also identified in several occupations as having high associated average YPLL.
CONCLUSIONS: The external-cause-specific analysis of average YPLL identified 
industries and occupations where, on average, younger workers were dying in 
fatal injuries. Noteworthy in this assessment were homicides and falls. The YPLL 
measure coupled with more commonly employed indices (e.g., rates) may provide a 
fuller description of the impact of occupational fatal injuries.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.10190
PMID: 12594772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Am J Ind Med. 2003 Mar;43(3):332-3; author reply 334. doi:
10.1002/ajim.10205.

RE: An alternate characterization of hazard in occupational epidemiology: years 
of life lost per years worked. Am J Ind Med 42:1-10, 2002.

Morfeld P.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.10205
PMID: 12594781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2003 Feb;42(2):326-35. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keg107.

The cost-effectiveness of infliximab (Remicade) in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis in Sweden and the United Kingdom based on the ATTRACT study.

Kobelt G(1), Jönsson L, Young A, Eberhardt K.

Author information:
(1)HDI France, Spéracèdes, France. gisela.kobelt@easynet.fr

Comment in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 2003 Dec;42(12):1572-3; author reply 1573-4.
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 2003 Dec;42(12):1574-5; author reply 1573-4.

OBJECTIVE: The cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of infliximab 
(Remicade) treatment in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) was estimated on the basis of 
a clinical trial comparing infliximab plus methotrexate with methotrexate alone 
in 428 patients with advanced disease [Anti-Tumour Necrosis Factor Trial in 
Rheumatoid Arthritis with Concomitant Therapy (ATTRACT)].
METHODS: The effect of infliximab on disease progression and related costs and 
utilities was estimated using two disease progression models based on 
epidemiological cohorts followed for up to 15 yr in Sweden and the UK. The 
clinical trial data were used directly in the model and extrapolated to 10 yr 
using a cohort from the epidemiological studies matched for gender, age, time 
since onset of RA and disease severity.
RESULTS: One to two years of treatment with infliximab treatment reduced direct 
and indirect resource consumption in both countries, thereby partly offsetting 
the treatment cost. In the base case, including both direct and indirect costs, 
the cost per QALY gained was SEK 32 000 (euro 3440) in Sweden and GBP 21 600 
(euro 34 800) for 1 yr of treatment. The respective QALY gains were 0.248 and 
0.298. With 2 yr of treatment, the costs per QALY gained were SEK 150 000 (euro 
16 100) and GBP 29 900 (euro;48 200).
CONCLUSIONS: Although 1-2 yr of treatment with infliximab will lead to savings 
in both direct and indirect costs, these will not offset the drug cost. However, 
the cost-effectiveness ratios remain within the usual range for treatments to be 
recommended for use.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keg107
PMID: 12595631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Genes Immun. 2003 Jan;4(1):30-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.gene.6363895.

Genetic polymorphisms in mouse genes regulating age-sensitive and age-stable T 
cell subsets.

Jackson AU(1), Galecki AT, Burke DT, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109, USA.

To see whether genetic polymorphisms regulate inter-individual differences in T 
cell subset levels, we have conducted a genome scan in two populations of mice, 
bred as the progeny of a cross between CB6F1 females and C3D2F1 males. The data 
document quantitative trait loci (QTL) with statistically significant effects on 
CD4, CD8, and CD8 memory T cells, and on subsets of CD4 and CD8 T cells that 
express P-glycoprotein. Some of the loci detected were robust, in the sense that 
they produced effects of similar size both in mated female mice, and in a 
population that included male and female virgin animals. Some of the effects 
were stable, in that they were apparent at both 8 and 18 months of age, but 
others were age-specific, showing effects either at 8 or at 18 months but not at 
both ages. Genes that had an effect on the same T cell subset were in almost all 
cases additive rather than epistatic, and their combined effects could produce 
large overall effects, leading in the most dramatic case to a two-fold 
difference in CD8 memory cells. The analysis also documented two QTL, on 
chromosomes 4 and 13, that regulate an age-sensitive composite index of T cell 
subset pattern which has been shown previously to be a predictor of life 
expectancy in these mice. The analysis thus reveals both subset-specific genes 
and others which modulate the overall pattern of age-sensitive changes in T cell 
subset distributions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gene.6363895
PMCID: PMC7091845
PMID: 12595899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Transpl Int. 2003 Feb;16(2):123-7. doi: 10.1007/s00147-002-0508-8. Epub 2003
Jan  14.

The cost effectiveness of lung transplantation compared with that of heart and 
liver transplantation in the Netherlands.

Ouwens JP(1), van Enckevort PJ, TenVergert EM, Bonsel GJ, van der Bij W, Haagsma 
EB, Rutten FF, Slooff MJ, Koëter GH.

Author information:
(1)Lung Transplantation Group, University Hospital of Groningen, P.O. Box 
30.001, 9700RB Groningen, The Netherlands. j.p.ouwens@mta.azg.nl

This study was performed to assess the main reasons for the unfavorable cost 
effectiveness of lung transplantation compared with that of heart and liver 
transplantation. Costs, effects, and cost-effectiveness ratios of Dutch lung, 
heart, and liver transplantation programs were compared. The data are based on 
three Dutch technology assessments of transplantation, with minor adjustments 
for time and methods. In result, mainly follow-up costs of lung transplantation 
are higher than costs of heart and liver transplantation-- 50,300 US dollars, 
121,500 US dollars, and 95,300 US dollars, respectively--in the first 3 years 
after transplantation. The survival gain realized by lung transplantation is 
small (4.4 years) compared with heart (8.8 years) and liver (14.7 years) 
transplantation. Costs per life-year gained were 77,000 US dollars, 38,000 US 
dollars, and 26,000 US dollars for lung, heart, and liver transplantation, 
respectively. The unfavorable cost effectiveness of lung transplantation is 
largely related to a relatively small survival gain and high follow-up costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00147-002-0508-8
PMID: 12595974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Biomedica. 2002 Dec;22 Suppl 2:347-61.

[Social and economic impact of violence in the Americas].

[Article in Spanish]

Concha A(1).

Author information:
(1)Organización Panamericana de la Salud, Organización Mundial de la Salud, 
Washington, DC, USA. conchaal@paho.org

Violence is a social and a public health problem that has grown in the Americas 
in recent decades that has negative effects on social, health, and the economy 
of countries, communities, families, and individuals. More than 115,000 people 
are murdered every year, the majority of them are men; other 55,000 commit 
suicide. In 20 to 60% of households some form of domestic violence against 
girls, boys, women, and the elderly occurs; juvenile gangs, involved in violent 
and criminal activities, increases at alarming rate. Other forms of violence are 
wars and internal or international conflicts, political violence, abductions, 
lynching, multinational violence by organized crime units involved in narcotic 
trafficking, sexual trade or smuggling of weapons. The public health approach is 
based on a methodology of work, as follows: 1. Characterization of the problem 
in its basic variables of person, place, time, circumstances, and related 
situations; 2. Identification of causes, associations, or risk factors; 3. 
Proposal of interventions and their evaluation; 4. Extension of the evaluated 
interventions. Violence is an intentional act of multicausal origin. Various 
factors are interconnected showing the relations among them. Those which have 
been primarily studied or that have shown greater evidence are discussed. A 
historical look is proposed, that integrates the repression and control, the 
prevention and the recovery of the social fabric. Violence demands an 
expenditure of money that represents a significant proportion of the GDP that 
was estimated in $168 billion dollars for Latin America. Violence can be 
prevented. Primary prevention projects are driven to avoid the occurrence of a 
violent act, but if it has already occurred it is necessary to avoid its 
repetition, through secondary prevention projects. Tertiary prevention is 
applied in order to avoid major damages; it aims at improving the quality of 
life of those already traumatized. The programs should be comprehensive and 
sustained in the medium and long terms. Finally, comments have been made on PAHO 
and WHO policies, in particular the recently launched World Report on Violence 
and Health, a working tool for violence prevention.

PMID: 12596455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. J Am Acad Psychoanal. 2002 Winter;30(4):707-17. doi: 
10.1521/jaap.30.4.707.24203.

Isaac versus Oedipus: an alternative view.

Kaplan KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University, USA.

Comment on
    J Am Acad Psychoanal. 2002 Winter;30(4):691-706.

Max Sugar (2002) argues for the essential similarity of the legends of Oedipus 
and Isaac with regard to the common themes of filicide, patricide, guilt, 
punishment, and expiation. Sugar does point out, however, that while the outcome 
in the Oedipus myth is tragic, it is hopeful in the narrative of Isaac. This 
article, in contrast, argues that this distinction between tragedy and 
hopefulness is not incidental and indeed stems out of the essential differences 
between the legends of Oedipus and Isaac, which themselves reflect the opposing 
life views emerging from Athens and Jerusalem. Indeed, we will argue for viewing 
the Akedah (the binding of Isaac) as a Biblical alternative to the Oedipus 
Complex, rather than simply an extension of it, and as the basis for a Biblical 
psychology and psychotherapy.

DOI: 10.1521/jaap.30.4.707.24203
PMID: 12597112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Bull Math Biol. 2003 Jan;65(1):27-56. doi: 10.1006/bulm.2002.0315.

A model for the emergence of adaptive subsystems.

Dopazo H(1), Gordon MB, Perazzo R, Risau-Gusman S.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, 
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Pabellón 2, Ciudad Universitaria, 1428 Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. hdopazo@dna.uba.ar

We investigate the interaction of learning and evolution in a changing 
environment. A stable learning capability is regarded as an emergent adaptive 
system evolved by natural selection of genetic variants. We consider the 
evolution of an asexual population. Each genotype can have 'fixed' and 
'flexible' alleles. The former express themselves as synaptic connections that 
remain unchanged during ontogeny and the latter as synapses that can be adjusted 
through a learning algorithm. Evolution is modelled using genetic algorithms and 
the changing environment is represented by two optimal synaptic patterns that 
alternate a fixed number of times during the 'life' of the individuals. The 
amplitude of the change is related to the Hamming distance between the two 
optimal patterns and the rate of change to the frequency with which both 
exchange roles. This model is an extension of that of Hinton and Nowlan in which 
the fitness is given by a probabilistic measure of the Hamming distance to the 
optimum. We find that two types of evolutionary pathways are possible depending 
upon how difficult (costly) it is to cope with the changes of the environment. 
In one case the population loses the learning ability, and the individuals 
inherit fixed synapses that are optimal in only one of the environmental states. 
In the other case a flexible subsystem emerges that allows the individuals to 
adapt to the changes of the environment. The model helps us to understand how an 
adaptive subsystem can emerge as the result of the tradeoff between the 
exploitation of a congenital structure and the exploration of the adaptive 
capabilities practised by learning.

DOI: 10.1006/bulm.2002.0315
PMID: 12597115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2002;14(1):35-9. doi: 10.1177/101053950201400108.

Changing emphases in public health and medical education in health care reform.

Patrick WK(1), Cadman EC.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Center for Leadership Development, International Health & 
Medicine.

Globalisation of economies, diseases and disasters with poverty, emerging 
infectious diseases, ageing and chronic conditions, violence and terrorism has 
begun to change the face of public health and medical education. Escalating 
costs of care and increasing poverty have brought urgency to professional 
training to improve efficiency, cut costs and maintain gains in life expectancy 
and morbidity reduction. Technology, genetics research and designer drugs have 
dramatically changed medical practice. Creatively, educational institutions have 
adopted the use of: (1) New educational and communication technologies: internet 
and health informatics; (2) Problem based learning approaches; Integrated 
Practice and Theory Curricula; Research and Problem Solving methodologies and 
(3) Partnership and networking of institutions to synergise new trends (e.g. 
core competencies). Less desirably, changes are inadequate in key areas, e.g., 
Health Economics, Poverty and Health Development, Disaster Management & 
Bioterrorism and Ethics. Institutions have begun to adjust and develop new 
programs of study to meet challenges of emerging diseases, design methodologies 
to better understand complex social and economic determinants of disease, assess 
the effects of violence and address cost containment strategies in health. 
Besides redesigning instruction, professional schools need to conduct research 
to assess the impact of health reform. Such studies will serve as sentinels for 
the public's health, and provide key indicators for improvements in training, 
service provision and policy.

