DOI: 10.1177/101053950201400108
PMID: 12597516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Br J Ophthalmol. 2003 Mar;87(3):259-61. doi: 10.1136/bjo.87.3.259.

Utilities associated with diabetic retinopathy: results from a Canadian sample.

Sharma S(1), Oliver-Fernandez A, Bakal J, Hollands H, Brown GC, Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)The Cost-Effective Ocular Health Policy Unit, Queen's University, Hotel Dieu 
Hospital, Kingston, ON, Canada. sanjay_sharma60@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To report patient based utilities, using the time trade-off 
technique, associated with visual loss secondary to diabetic retinopathy in a 
sample of Canadian patients. In addition, to compare these utility values with a 
sample collected in a similar manner in a tertiary care practice in the United 
States.
METHODS: A cross sectional study of eligible patients with diabetic retinopathy 
presenting to a tertiary facility was performed. Demographic and clinical 
variables (including Snellen visual acuity), and utilities were collected both 
through chart review and standardised interviews with diabetic patients.
RESULTS: 221 patients with diabetic retinopathy were eligible for this study and 
completed the interview. The mean age was 63.5 (SD 12.5) years, and 48.4% were 
female. Over 35% of the sample had visual acuity in the affected eye of 6/60 or 
worse. The mean utility for the sample was 0.79 (SD 0.23). The mean utility from 
this sample did not differ significantly from that obtained from a series of 
patients with diabetic retinopathy who were referred to a tertiary facility in 
the United States (mean 0.77, SD 0.21, p=0.313). Our cross border comparison had 
a power of 95% to detect a difference in utility of 0.1 between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: On average, Canadian patients with diabetic retinopathy were willing 
to trade off over 20% of their remaining lifespan in order to eliminate their 
ocular disease. The mean utility obtained from our sample of Canadian patients 
with diabetic retinopathy was not statistically different from that obtained 
from a similar sample of American patients.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.87.3.259
PMCID: PMC1771570
PMID: 12598432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 2003 Feb;13(1):36-8. doi: 
10.1097/00129689-200302000-00008.

Laparoscopically assisted surgery for congenital gastric or duodenal diaphragm 
in children.

Nakajima K(1), Wasa M, Soh H, Sasaki T, Taniguchi E, Ohashi S, Okada A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 22-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. 
nakajima@pedsurg.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

Presented are our recent experiences with successful laparoscopically assisted 
surgery in two children with congenital gastric or duodenal diaphragm. 
Laparoscopy was used as an adjunct in performing the following surgical 
procedures: (1) inspection of the entire bowel, (2) identification and 
evaluation of the involved site, and (3) mobilization and exteriorization of the 
involved site. A minimal transverse incision was made for exteriorization. 
Extracorporeal removal of the diaphragm was followed by pyloroplasty or 
duodenoplasty. Each patient had a rapid and uncomplicated recovery with complete 
resolution of the symptoms. Laparoscopically assisted surgery may be a valuable 
modality in pediatric patients with congenital gastric or duodenal diaphragm. It 
allows better assessment of the entire bowel, minimizing the disfiguring and 
morbid abdominal incisions, without impeding the effectiveness of the planned 
operation. Avoidance of full-scale laparotomy may decrease the risk of future 
adhesions. These advantages seem attractive especially for children with longer 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00129689-200302000-00008
PMID: 12598756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Cancer. 2003 Mar 1;97(5):1156-63. doi: 10.1002/cncr.11173.

Is axillary lymph node dissection necessary in elderly patients with breast 
carcinoma who have a clinically uninvolved axilla?

Martelli G(1), Miceli R, De Palo G, Coradini D, Salvadori B, Zucali R, Galante 
E, Marubini E.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Diagnostic Oncology and Outpatient Clinic, Istituto Nazionale per lo 
Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, Milan, Italy. 
gabriele.martelli@istitutotumori.mi.it

BACKGROUND: Axillary dissection in elderly patients with early-stage breast 
carcinoma who do not have palpable axillary lymph nodes is controversial because 
of the associated morbidity of the surgery, reduced life expectancy of the 
patients, and efficacy of hormone therapy in preventing recurrences and axillary 
events.
METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective analysis of 671 consecutive 
patients with breast carcinoma who were age >or= 70 years and who underwent 
conservative breast surgery with axillary dissection (172 patients) or without 
axillary dissection (499 patients). Tamoxifen always was given. The effects of 
axillary dissection compared with no axillary dissection on breast carcinoma 
mortality and distant metastasis were analyzed using multiple 
proportional-hazards regression models. Because the assignment to axillary 
treatment was nonrandom, covariate adjustments were made for baseline variables 
that influenced the decision to perform axillary dissection and for prognostic 
factors.
RESULTS: The crude cumulative incidence curves for breast carcinoma mortality 
and distant metastasis did not appear to differ significantly between the two 
groups (P = 0.530 and P = 0.840, respectively). The crude cumulative incidences 
of axillary lymph node occurrence at 5 years and 10 years were 4.4% and 5.9%, 
respectively (3.1% and 4.1%, respectively, for patients with pT1 tumors).
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients with breast carcinoma who have no evidence of 
axillary lymph node involvement may be treated effectively with conservative 
surgery and tamoxifen. Immediate axillary dissection is not necessary but should 
be performed in the small percentage of patients who later develop overt 
axillary lymph node involvement.

Copyright 2003 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.11173
PMID: 12599220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nihon Rinsho. 2002 Dec;60 Suppl 11:304-8.

[Problems of prostate cancer in elderly patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato H(1), Nishizawa O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Shinshu University School of Medicine.

PMID: 12599590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Prof Inferm. 2002 Oct-Dec;55(4):235-40.

[Significance of health education in schools. Strategy for the prevention of 
cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in Italian]

Luciani C, Gonnella C, Ingrassia A, Torre R, Germani T, Castelli A, Rosatelli M, 
Conti E, Morlacchetti R, Miraldi F, Speziale G.

Erratum in
    Prof Inferm. 2003 Jun-Mar;56(1):45. Mirali F [corrected to Miraldi F].

Cardiovascular diseases are the first cause of death in our Country. They mainly 
manifests in adult age but it is the result of initiated lesions since the young 
age and imputable often to errors of behaviours and to non appropriate styles of 
life. The knowledges related to the prevention of some illnesses, allows a 
reduction of the incidence of these, a reduction of the mortality, with 
consequent reduction of the health and social costs related to the care and to 
the rehabilitation. In our educational system, unlike what happens in the most 
greater part of the other European countries, these themes are only partially 
present and however treated in sporadic and insufficient way. For these raisons 
Pronto Cuore onlus Association has decided to start, in collaboration with the 
Regione Lazio, a project of health education to the high schools students 
considering that a more informed population has a longer expectancy of life and 
a better life quality. This job wants to underline the necessity to undertake a 
health education program to teach and inform students and teachers: to recognize 
some factors of risk as principal causes of cardiovascular diseases; to change 
life style; to recognize critical situations and behaviours to be adopted.

PMID: 12599720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. N Z Med J. 2003 Feb 21;116(1169):U328.

Establishing a Maori case management clinic.

Maniapoto T(1), Gribben B.

Author information:
(1)Maori Health, Counties Manukau District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand.

AIMS: The Maori Case Management Clinic Project aims to improve Maori health 
outcomes by establishing low cost, high quality, culturally appropriate primary 
care facilities in targeted areas, with a focus on the management of chronic 
illness. Further, the project aims to evaluate this 'by Maori for Maori' model 
of community healthcare delivery.
METHODS: Working in partnership with local Maori health providers, we analysed 
the available health utilisation and demographic data to choose the three best 
sites to establish new primary care facilities. We established the facilities 
with initial start-up funding from Counties Manukau District Health Board. 
Rigorous evaluation processes have been built into the project.
RESULTS: Enrollments at the first of the three clinics exceeded expectations. 
Client satisfaction as reported by independent evaluators was very high, with 
cost, cultural acceptability and convenience of location being the three most 
common reasons given for high satisfaction.
CONCLUSIONS: The model adopted has been positively received by the targeted 
population. Further evaluation will reveal whether this resulted in improved 
health outcomes.

PMID: 12601405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Int J Clin Oncol. 2003 Feb;8(1):23-5. doi: 10.1007/s101470300002.

Unknown primary carcinoma: a feasibility assessment of combination chemotherapy 
with cisplatin and docetaxel.

Mukai H(1), Watanabe T, Ando M, Katsumata N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital, 5-5-1 
Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan. twatanab@ncc.go.jp

BACKGROUND: Docetaxel (Taxotere) and cisplatin are two of the most active single 
agents used in the treatment of solid tumors. We examined the feasibility of 
using a combination of docetaxel and cisplatin for the treatment of unknown 
primary carcinoma in order to prepare a larger scale prospective study.
METHODS: Eligible patients were aged 18 to 75 years, with an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 2 or less and a life expectancy of 8 
weeks or more, and had been diagnosed as having unknown primary carcinoma by the 
required examinations. Patients were not permitted to have received prior 
chemotherapy and had to have measurable lesions. Docetaxel (60 mg/m(2)) was 
given intravenously over a 1-h period immediately before cisplatin (80 mg/m(2)), 
which was given intravenously over a 2-h period, every 3 weeks. Premedication 
included dexamethasone, granisetron, and standard hyperhydration.
RESULTS: Twenty-six treatment courses in five patients were tested according to 
the protocol and feasibility was assessed. Adverse events observed included 
grade 4 neutropenia, leukopenia, grade 3 nausea/vomiting, grade 2 diarrhea, and 
mucositis. These adverse events were well tolerated, reversible, and manageable. 
Doses were not reduced and all injections were given or their due date without 
any delay in all patients. Four patients achieved a partial response and one had 
stable disease.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of patients with unknown primary carcinoma with a 
combination of docetaxel and cisplatin is feasible. Conduct of a phase II trial 
of this regimen is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s101470300002
PMID: 12601538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2002 Fall;18(4):791-807. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462302000600.

The health economics of calcium and vitamin D3 for the prevention of 
osteoporotic hip fractures in Sweden.

Willis MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Swedish Institute for Health Economics.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to examine the economics of 
administering calcium and vitamin D3 to post-menopausal women in Sweden. We 
focus primarily on the cost-effectiveness of treating older women for whom clear 
evidence of efficacy is available. We supplement this information, however, with 
estimates of the cost-effectiveness of treating certain high-risk groups of 
younger women, while acknowledging the greater uncertainty involved.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model for analyzing the occurrence and timing of 
hip fractures, based almost entirely on peer-reviewed data from Sweden. In a 
3-year randomized clinical trial, the combination of calcium and vitamin D3 was 
shown to reduce the risk of hip fractures by 27%. Costs for treating hip 
fractures were based on 1,080 women who were hospitalized in Stockholm.
RESULTS: Treatment of 70-year-old women was cost saving at efficacy as low as 
two-thirds that seen in the clinical trials, and upwards. Even at modest rates 
of efficacy, treatment of the high-risk 50- and 60-year-old cohorts was 
generally cost-effective and in some cases even cost saving. Particularly 
cost-effective was treatment of women with identified osteoporosis or a maternal 
family history of hip fracture.
CONCLUSION: Simulation results suggest a role for lifetime treatment of older 
women with calcium and vitamin D3 in Sweden. While there is more uncertainty 
underlying the treatment of younger women, our simulation results suggest that 
treatment may also be cost saving or at least cost-effective for many cohorts of 
high-risk 50- and particularly 60-year-old women, in particular those with 
osteoporosis or a maternal family history of hip fracture.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462302000600
PMID: 12602080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. World Hosp Health Serv. 2002;38(3):34-40, 42, 44.

The future of public health.

Lord Hunt P.

The scale of health inequalities in the UK is stark indeed: and their 
persistence has disfigured our society. Can there be any room for complacency 
when we know that a male resident of Manchester can expect to live over seven 
years less than his contemporary in Barnet? Or, that when it comes to healthy 
life expectancy the gap is even greater: The number of years of life in good 
health that a man can, on average, expect to live is almost 11 years better in 
Surrey than in Manchester. For women, the difference is nine years between these 
local authority areas. Death rates from coronary heart disease among first 
generation South Asians aged 20-69 are about 50% higher than the England and 
Wales average. Perinatal mortality among Pakistani born mothers is nearly twice 
the United Kingdom national average. None of this, of course, comes as any 
surprise to the people in this room. But such inequalities are simply 
unacceptable in Britain today and they should be rejected on every level, 
whether moral, social or economic.

PMID: 12602090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. J Theor Biol. 2003 Jan 21;220(2):271-6. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.2003.3148.

Fatigue damage, remodeling, and the minimization of skeletal weight.

Martin RB(1).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Research Laboratories, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 
University of California at Davis Medical Center, Research Building I, 4635 
Second Avenue, Sacramento, CA 95817, U.S.A. rbmartin@ucdavis.edu

The skeleton has provided many advantages during the course of vertebrate 
evolution, but it has also contained limitations that have strongly influenced 
bone biology. These limitations have included weight and the potential for 
fatigue failure. Calcified bone tissue is approximately twice as heavy as other 
tissues, so it is important to minimize the size of the skeleton, but this 
implies increasing bone stresses and strains and the potential for fatigue 
fracture. This paper first explores the role of fatigue damage removal by 
remodeling in extending a long bone's fatigue life to match the animal's 
lifetime. Next, an estimate is obtained for the amount that the cross-sectional 
area of a bone would have to be increased in lieu of remodeling to achieve the 
same extension of fatigue life, provided that the associated muscle mass 
remained constant. The result illustrates how remodeling can provide a gracile 
bone the same fatigue life as a substantially more robust bone lacking 
remodeling. Finally, it is shown that if muscle mass increases in linear 
proportion to bone mass, as experimental data suggest, extending a bone's 
fatigue life by increasing its cross-sectional dimensions may not be effective 
because the inertia of bigger bones would result in larger muscles and increased 
skeletal loads. Thus, bone remodeling to remove fatigue damage may be essential 
for the existence of relatively large, long-lived vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.2003.3148
PMID: 12602399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Oct;14(5):322-32. doi: 10.1007/BF03324458.

Life expectancy and changing mortality.

Kinsella K(1), Velkoff VA.

Author information:
(1)International Programs Center, Population Division, Census Bureau, 
Washington, DC 20233, USA. kevin.g.kinsella@census.gov

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324458
PMID: 12602565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Oct;14(5):333-42. doi: 10.1007/BF03324459.

Health and disability.

Kinsella K(1), Velkoff VA.

Author information:
(1)International Programs Center, Population Division, Census Bureau, 
Washington, DC 20233, USA. kevin.g.kinsella@census.gov

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324459
PMID: 12602566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Ment Health Serv Res. 2003 Mar;5(1):55-64. doi: 10.1023/a:1021759509176.

Using discrete-time survival analysis to examine patterns of remission from 
substance use disorder among persons with severe mental illness.

Xie H(1), McHugo G, Drake R, Sengupta A.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA. 
haiyi.xie@dartmouth.edu

Investigators in mental health research are often interested in examining 
critical events such as onset, relapse, and recovery from illness, including 
substance use disorders. As data on these critical events are often collected at 
discrete-time intervals (e.g., weekly, monthly, or yearly), discrete-time 
survival models are more appropriate than well-known continuous-time methods. In 
this paper, we present discrete-time survival analysis methods at an 
introductory level. Using data collected every 6 months from a 3-year study of 
assertive community treatment in New Hampshire, we show that discrete-time 
survival models can be used to analyze patterns of remission from substance use 
disorder among clients with severe mental illness. The main questions 
investigated are (1) when are remissions more likely to occur? and (2) what 
variables predict remission? The results indicate that remission is more likely 
to occur in the first 6 months and in the 3rd year of the study. Gender, age, 
baseline use of substances, and diagnosis are strong predictors of remission.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021759509176
PMID: 12602646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Lifetime Data Anal. 2003 Mar;9(1):35-56. doi: 10.1023/a:1021873905418.

Maximum likelihood estimation of life-span based on censored and passively 
registered historical data.

Jonker MA(1).

Author information:
(1)LUMC, Department of Medical Statistics, PO Box 9604, 2300 RC Leiden, The 
Netherlands. m.a.jonker@lumc.nl

We consider the estimation of life length of people who were born in the 
seventeenth or eighteenth century in England. The data consist of a sequence of 
times of life events that is either ended by a time of death or is 
right-censored by an unobserved time of migration. We propose a semi parametric 
model for the data and use a maximum likelihood method to estimate the unknown 
parameters in this model. We prove the consistency of the maximum likelihood 
estimators and describe an algorithm to obtain the estimates numerically. We 
have applied the algorithm to data and the estimates found are presented.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021873905418
PMID: 12602773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Lifetime Data Anal. 2003 Mar;9(1):57-70. doi: 10.1023/a:1021882122257.

Rank estimation of log-linear regression with interval-censored data.

Li L(1), Pu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA 70148, 
USA. lli@math.uno.edu

Interval-censored data arise in a wide variety of research and application 
fields such as cancer and AIDS studies. In this paper, we study a log-linear 
regression model when data are subject to interval censoring. We use a 
U-statistic based on ranks to estimate regression coefficients and establish 
large sample properties of the estimator. We illustrate the performance of the 
proposed estimate with simulations and a numerical example.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021882122257
PMID: 12602774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Lifetime Data Anal. 2003 Mar;9(1):71-91. doi: 10.1023/a:1021834206327.

Non-parametric hypothesis testing and confidence intervals with doubly censored 
data.

Chen K(1), Zhou M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40506-0027, 
USA. kun.chen.b@bayer.com

The non-parametric maximum likelihood estimator (NPMLE) of the distribution 
function with doubly censored data can be computed using the self-consistent 
algorithm (Tumbull, 1974). We extend the self-consistent algorithm to include a 
constraint on the NPMLE. We then show how to construct confidence intervals and 
test hypotheses based on the NPMLE via the empirical likelihood ratio. Finally, 
we present some numerical comparisons of the performance of the above method 
with another method that makes use of the influence functions.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021834206327
PMID: 12602775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Acta Neurol Scand Suppl. 2003;179:94-9. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-0404.107.s179.13.x.

Pharmacoeconomics of mild cognitive impairment.

Wimo A(1), Winblad B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Neurotec, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

There is little written about the pharmacoeconomics of mild cognitive impairment 
(MCI), particularly with regard to intervention. The aim of the paper is to 
highlight methodological issues and to present some results that are of 
importance when drug interventions of MCI are discussed. There is a relationship 
between severity of dementia and costs, but to what extent such results can be 
extrapolated to MCI is not known. Even if it is logical to consider a 
postponement of the shift from MCI to dementia as cost effective, this statement 
must be proven, particularly in light of the insufficient knowledge about the 
effects of anti-dementia drugs on survival. From the Kungsholmen project in 
Sweden, there are indications that the postponement between MCI and manifest 
dementia may result in short-term benefits (a few years) of about SEK50,000 
(5300 US dollars).

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0404.107.s179.13.x
PMID: 12603255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Aust J Rural Health. 2003 Jan;11(1):22-7. doi:
10.1046/j.1440-1584.2003.00478.x.

Analysis of ante-partum maternal morbidity in rural Bangladesh.

Chakraborty N(1), Islam MA, Chowdhury RI, Bari W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Dhaka University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

This paper presents the results of a prospective study of maternal morbidity 
during the ante-partum period in rural areas of Bangladesh. The data came from a 
survey of Maternal Morbidity in Bangladesh, conducted by the Bangladesh 
Institute of Research for Promotion of Essential and Reproductive Health and 
Technologies (BIRPERHT) during the period from November 1992 to December 1993. 
Since then no such national level survey has been conducted in Bangladesh. This 
paper employs multiple-decrement life table technique, a convenient way of 
analysing the risks of different types of disease conditions that women 
experience during the antenatal period for different age categories. The 
high-risk complications such as ante-partum haemorrhage, excessive vomiting, 
fits/convulsion and oedema were considered in this study. In this study a cause 
specific model was applied to explore the differences in the risks exerted at 
different ages of reproductive life attributable to some selected complications 
of pregnancy. The results of this study indicate that women of age 25-29 years 
are less susceptible to most of the selected life-threatening and high-risk 
complications during pregnancy such as haemorrhage, fits/convulsion and oedema. 
However, younger women (age < 25 years) are more likely to have excessive 
vomiting during pregnancy, and older women (age > or = 30 years) are at greater 
risk of haemorrhage, fits/convulsion and oedema.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1584.2003.00478.x
PMID: 12603443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Health Expect. 2003 Mar;6(1):1-2. doi: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2003.00213.x.

Citizen involvement in priority-setting.

Coulter A.

Comment in
    Health Expect. 2003 Mar;6(1):53-9.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2003.00213.x
PMCID: PMC5060160
PMID: 12603623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2003 Jan;33(1):1-5. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyg011.

Watchful waiting as a treatment option for localized prostate cancer in the PSA 
era.

Kakehi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa Medical University, 
Kita-gun, Kagawa, Japan. kakehi@kms.ac.jp

The incidence rate of early-stage prostate cancer has dramatically increased 
since the introduction of the widespread use of PSA testing in developed 
countries, including Japan. With the downward stage migration there has been 
much interest in the concept of watchful waiting not only for elderly patients 
with a life expectancy of less than 10 years but also in younger patients with 
good social and sexual activity. The results of a recent randomized comparison 
between radical prostatectomy and watchful waiting for localized disease 
indicated comparable overall survival but superiority of surgery in 
disease-specific survival. The predictive value of clinico-pathological 
parameters including biopsy features and serum PSA seems insufficient to predict 
tumor growth potential. Our ongoing prospective study is aimed at clarifying 
whether PSA doubling time assessment for 6 months in patients with favorable 
biopsy features can be a good indicator for further watchful waiting or 
immediate aggressive treatment without any survival disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyg011
PMID: 12604715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Can J Gastroenterol. 2003 Feb;17(2):119-21. doi: 10.1155/2003/759457.

Motion - colonoscopic surveillance is more cost effective than colectomy in 
patients with ulcerative colitis: Arguments for the motion.

Lashner BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio, 
USA. lashneb@ccf.org

Patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) are at increased risk for colorectal 
cancer (CRC), especially those with longstanding disease, pancolitis or primary 
sclerosing cholangitis. The incidence of colitis- associated cancer is 
increasing, and the mortality rates from CRC are higher in UC patients than in 
the general population. Case control studies have demonstrated that surveillance 
colonoscopy reduces the risk of dying from CRC. A well conducted decision 
analysis found that surveillance colonoscopy decreases cancer-related mortality 
and increases life expectancy. The results with surveillance programs were 
almost as good as with prophylactic colectomy. A subsequent cost effectiveness 
analysis using the same model found that, compared with a policy of no 
surveillance, colonoscopic surveillance was more effective at preventing death 
from CRC and was less costly. The best strategy appears to be to perform 
colonoscopies every three years. The analysis also showed that colectomy should 
be recommended in patients with low-grade dysplasia. Patients at very high risk 
for CRC should undergo yearly colonoscopy, and patients who are concerned about 
the limitations of this technique should be offered prophylactic colectomy.

DOI: 10.1155/2003/759457
PMID: 12605250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Am J Med Genet A. 2003 Apr 1;118A(1):90-5. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.10216.

Unexpected survival in a case of prenatally diagnosed non-mosaic trisomy 22: 
Clinical report and review of the natural history.

Tinkle BT(1), Walker ME, Blough-Pfau RI, Saal HM, Hopkin RJ.

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Division of Human Genetics, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA. Rob.Hopkin@chmcc.org

Over 30 cases of complete non-mosaic trisomy 22 have been reported in the 
literature in the last 20 years [Crowe et al., 1997: Am J Med Genet 71:406-413]. 
Twenty-two infants were liveborn with an average life expectancy of four days. 
Of these, nine survived beyond the first two weeks of life. The life span ranged 
from minutes to 3 years of age. We report a case of an infant diagnosed 
prenatally with complete non-mosaic trisomy 22. Options such as aggressive 
medical/surgical intervention or limiting interventions to symptomatic care 
including home hospice were discussed openly. Given this information, the family 
elected to provide minimal supportive measures with pediatric hospice. The 
infant lived for 2 months with her family before her death. Numerous medical and 
surgical complications are associated with this disorder. Both the family and 
the medical team must be prepared for in utero fetal demise, stillbirth, or for 
limited life expectancy. Proper management, therefore, depends upon an 
understanding of the diagnosis.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.10216
PMID: 12605450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Health Econ. 2003 Mar;12(3):187-98. doi: 10.1002/hec.707.

Preferences and person trade-offs: forcing consistency or inconsistency in 
health-related quality of life measures?

Mansley EC(1), Elbasha EH.

Author information:
(1)US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), USA. 
edward_mansley@merck.com

We consider assumptions about preferences implicit in the person trade-off 
exercises used to derive health-related quality of life measures for the Global 
and US Burden of Disease Projects. Because these methods and their results have 
the potential of being adopted by other researchers, a critical review of this 
methodology and its assumptions is warranted. Exercise participants are told 
that quality of life valuation is approached using two different questions to 
reveal logical inconsistencies in each person's responses. An inconsistency is 
claimed to exist if a participant's two responses violate a particular 
mathematical relationship, and participants are forced to modify their responses 
to satisfy that relationship. We demonstrate that this supposed 'logical' 
relationship need not hold for logically consistent, rational individuals, and 
we prove that the relationship will in fact hold only for a particular class of 
social value functions exhibiting two characteristics that may not be consistent 
with the preferences of some participants. These results imply that the forced 
modification may invalidate some responses, as it may require some participants 
to provide final answers that are inconsistent with their true preferences. We 
then discuss preference characterizations in the existing person trade-off 
literature, from which this relationship may have been derived.

Published in 2002 by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.707
PMID: 12605464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Health Econ. 2003 Mar;12(3):199-215. doi: 10.1002/hec.708.

The interaction between cost-management and learning for major surgical 
procedures - lessons from asymmetric information.

Ernst CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Controlling and Auditing, Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universität 
Frankfurt/Main, Germany. c.ernst@em.uni-frankfurt.de

The theory of the learning curve states that learning effects are of particular 
importance in industries, where human skills play an important role. 
Consequently, one would expect to find large learning effects for surgical 
procedures because the physician's experience is quite important for this type 
of work. For hospitals, there exists indeed a well-documented effect that shows 
a positive relationship between the number of a certain type of surgery being 
performed and its resulting quality (volume-outcome relationship). Empirical 
analyses of the impact of learning on the average cost of a procedure, however, 
have noted a conspicuous absence of learning effects. Using a mechanism design 
approach, the paper analyzes a model of quality and cost-management for a 
hospital, where learning effects are included into the cost function and 
asymmetric information exists between management and physician. It seeks to 
answer the question, whether recommendations from a symmetric information 
scenario with respect to learning carry over to a health care setting, where 
informational problems tend to be pronounced and severe. If surgery volume 
interacts with physicians' informational rents, an optimal management reaction 
to the presence of learning may result in a policy, which is the exact opposite 
of the one under symmetric information.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.708
PMID: 12605465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Health Econ. 2003 Mar;12(3):247-50; discussion 251-3. doi: 10.1002/hec.719.

A note on cost-value analysis.

Østerdal LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Copenhagen, Denmark. L.P.Osterdal@pubhealth.ku.dk

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1999 Feb;8(1):25-39.

We discuss 'cost-value analysis', a method for health care resource allocation 
suggested by Nord et al. (Nord E et al. Incorporating societal concerns for 
fairness in numerical valuations of health programmes. Health Econ 1999; 8: 
25-39). Some difficulties and issues for future research are pointed out.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.719
PMID: 12605468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Health Econ. 2003 Mar;22(2):271-93. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6296(02)00123-6.

Decomposing world health inequality.

Pradhan M(1), Sahn DE, Younger SD.

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC, USA.

This study explores global inequality in health status and decomposes it into 
within- and between-country inequality. We rely on standardized height as our 
health indicator since it avoids the measurement pitfalls of more traditional 
measures of health such as morbidity, mortality, and life expectancy. It also 
avoids measurement problems associated with using monetary variables such as 
income or expenditure across time or place to compare welfare. Our calculation 
of world height inequality indicates that, in contrast with similar research on 
income inequality, within-country variation is the source of most inequality, 
rather than the differences between countries.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/S0167-6296(02)00123-6
PMID: 12606146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Lancet. 2003 Feb 22;361(9358):681-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12567-6.

Cystic fibrosis.

Ratjen F(1), Döring G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Essen, Essen, Germany. 
f.ratjen@uni-essen.de

Comment in
    Lancet. 2003 Jul 12;362(9378):171.

Cystic fibrosis is the most common autosomal recessive disorder in white people, 
with a frequency of about 1 in 2500 livebirths. Discovery of the mutated gene 
encoding a defective chloride channel in epithelial cells--named cystic fibrosis 
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)--has improved our understanding of 
the disorder's pathophysiology and has aided diagnosis, but has shown the 
disease's complexity. Gene replacement therapy is still far from being used in 
patients with cystic fibrosis, mostly because of difficulties of targeting the 
appropriate cells. Life expectancy of patients with the disorder has been 
greatly increased over past decades because of better notions of symptomatic 
treatment strategies. Here, we summarise advances in understanding and treatment 
of cystic fibrosis, focusing on pulmonary disease, which accounts for most 
morbidity and deaths.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12567-6
PMID: 12606185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Przegl Epidemiol. 2002;56(3):453-61.

[Mortality of Polish actors in 1981-1999].

[Article in Polish]

Poznańska A(1), Gajewski AK.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Statystyki Medycznej Państwowego Zakładu Higieny, Warszawie. 
paula@medstat.waw.pl

The objective of this study was to compare the mortality of Polish actors (males 
and females) with the general Polish population for the period 1981-1999 and for 
two sub-periods: 1981-1991 and 1992-1998. Initially the studied cohort included 
3992 dramatic actors (2161 males, 1831 females) of age 18-80 years (at the 
moment of cohort entrance). After detailed data verification statistical 
analysis was made for 2120 actors and 1767 actresses, contributing 29477.1 and 
24886.2 person-years of observation, respectively. A total of 633 deaths (368 
males and 265 females) were noted during the analyzed period. Statistical 
approach based on the follow-up method. Comparison with the reference population 
(Polish males and females from urban areas) was made by means of the 
standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and their 95% confidence intervals. Direct 
comparison of the selected subgroups' mortality based on the rate ratio 
analysis. Standardized mortality ratios were 0.739 (95%CI: 0.666-0.819) for the 
actors and 0.887 (95%CI: 0.784-1.001) for actresses. Mortality of the actors' 
cohort was found to be significantly lower than in the reference population 
during total analyzed period, whereas for actresses no significant differences 
were found. Age-specific SMR dependence was found. Statistically significant 
lowering of SMR was observed for actors up to 80 years old. Finally, it could be 
concluded that in contrast to the actresses' cohort the actors' mortality in 
1992-1999 significantly decreased in relation to 1981-1991 period. Moreover, the 
decrease of the actors' mortality exceeded tendencies observed for Polish urban 
population.

PMID: 12608095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Epidemiol Bull. 2002 Sep;23(3):1-4.

Demographic and mortality trends in the region of the Americas, 1980-2000.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12608344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Jan-Feb;18(1):82-92.

Prospective study of 429 hydroxyapatite-coated cylindric omniloc implants placed 
in 121 patients.

McGlumphy EA(1), Peterson LJ, Larsen PE, Jeffcoat MK.

Author information:
(1)College of Dentistry, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43218-2357, 
USA. mcglumphy.1@osu.edu

PURPOSE: Controversy over the long-term clinical effectiveness of hydroxyapatite 
(HA)-coated dental implants still persists, despite numerous clinical studies 
documenting high survival rates. The Ohio State University College of Dentistry 
undertook a 5-year prospective study of 429 HA-coated cylindric implants placed 
into 121 patients to determine the long-term clinical performance of the 
implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All study subjects were patients screened and evaluated 
in the university's dental clinic by one of the principal investigators and one 
member of the surgical team. A total of 429 HA-coated implants were placed in 
121 patients. The Ohio State University Human Subjects Committee approved and 
reviewed this study.
RESULTS: At the time of this report, 375 implants had completed 5 years of 
clinical follow-up. Beyond the 5-year limit of the study, 282 implants had 
completed 6 years and 114 implants had completed 7 years of clinical monitoring. 
The cumulative survival rate was 96% at 5 years and 95% at 7 years of follow-up. 
Mean combined mesial/distal bone loss was 1.2 mm in the mandible and 1.4 mm in 
the maxilla after 5 years of functional loading. Implant failures were most 
commonly associated with short implants or angled abutments.
DISCUSSION: Prospective clinical data are extremely valuable for clinicians 
evaluating the reliability of dental implant systems. In the present study, the 
implants achieved 100% osseointegration with minimal marginal bone loss, and 96% 
of the implants remained in function at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The HA-coated cylindric implants in this study provided a 
predictable means of oral rehabilitation.

PMID: 12608673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2003 Mar;58(3):348-54. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.2003.01722.x.

Forearm bone density in primary hyperparathyroidism: long-term follow-up with 
and without parathyroidectomy.

Rao DS(1), Wallace EA, Antonelli RF, Talpos GB, Ansari MR, Jacobsen G, Divine 
GW, Parfitt AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI 48202, 
USA. danrao47@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: The long-term effects of primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT), whether 
treated or untreated, on cortical bone are unclear, but the balance of evidence 
suggests that fracture risk is modestly increased in this patient group. We 
therefore compared changes in forearm cortical bone mineral density (BMD), at 
the site most relevant for PTH-mediated bone loss, in two groups of patients 
with PHPT; one with and one without surgery.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: We followed the course of forearm bone mineral/bone width 
(BM/BW, g/cm2) measured by single-energy photon absorptiometry at the standard 
proximal site, and Z-scores (deviations from the mean value expected for age, 
sex and race, calculated from a large local reference population) in 108 
patients who underwent successful surgery (mean duration 47 months, range 12-120 
months) and 108 who remained unoperated (mean duration 52 months, range 12-132 
months). Criteria for recommending surgery had been formulated in 1975 and were 
generally similar to those of the NIH consensus conference published in 1991. At 
the time of diagnosis the Z-score was significantly reduced in both groups, 
indicating an earlier period of accelerated cortical bone loss.
RESULTS: In the entire operated population there was no difference between the 
initial and final BM/BW. As the age-expected mean value declined, the Z-score 
became significantly less negative, and if the rate of change remained constant 
the values would have reached zero, indicating recovery of all bone lost as a 
result of the disease, after about 20 years. In the unoperated patients BM/BW 
fell significantly but there was no change in Z-score, indicating that the rate 
of bone loss was the same as expected for normal ageing.
CONCLUSIONS: It is reasonable to assume that cessation of further bone loss 
consequent on successful parathyroid surgery would eventually lead to abatement 
of the excess fracture risk, but the benefit to individual patients will depend 
mainly on their remaining life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.2003.01722.x
PMID: 12608941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Science. 2003 Feb 28;299(5611):1323. doi: 10.1126/science.1083135.

Aging. Antiaging research and the need for public dialogue.

Juengst ET(1), Binstock RH, Mehlman MJ, Post SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. etj2@po.cwru.edu

DOI: 10.1126/science.1083135
PMID: 12610284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2002 Dec;95(12):1165-71.

[Remodelling the aortic root by resection of the ascending aorta and 
non-coronary sinus in annular dilatation of the aorta and acute dissection of 
the descending aorta. 29 observations].

[Article in French]

Guilmet D(1), Bonnet N, Vuong PN, Ghorayeb G, Marnette JM, Brunet A.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie cardiaque, HEP La Roseraie, 120, av. de la République, 
93308 Aubervilliers.

The first conservative surgical procedures of the native aortic valve in annular 
dilatation were performed by Yacoub and David [1, 2]. These so-called 
remodelling and inclusion procedures provided hope for a normal life without 
long-term anticoagulant therapy for patients with Marfan's syndrome, with 
protection from the complication of an acute dissection of the ascending aorta. 
The authors reported their experience in the Archives des Maladies du Coeur et 
des Vaisseaux in 1999, with excellent results [3]. However, a certain number of 
cases are encountered in which the Yacoub and David procedures cannot be 
performed because of the presence of a pseudo-bicuspid valve, isolated 
asymmetrical dilatation of the non-coronary sinus or acute dissection of the 
aorta without dilatation of the aortic root. In these forms, the authors have 
developed a technique of remodelling the aortic root with conservation of the 
native valve by resecting the ascending aorta and non-coronary sinus, rather 
than carrying out a Bentall procedure. Twenty-nine cases of this type have been 
treated in this way for three different indications: aneurysm of the ascending 
aorta with bicuspid aortic valve, aneurysm of the ascending aorta with aortic 
insufficiency and extension to the posterior sinus, and type A acute dissection 
of the aorta.

PMID: 12611036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Aging Health. 2003 Feb;15(1):45-73. doi: 10.1177/0898264302239014.

Policy implications of an annuity approach to integrating long-term care 
financing and retirement income.

Spillman BC(1), Murtaugh CM, Warshawsky MJ.

Author information:
(1)Urban Institute, Washington, D.C., USA. bspillma@ui.urban.org

The authors consider an integrated income and disability annuity as an 
alternative framework for long-term care financing, show that pooling disability 
and mortality risks can reduce the need for medical underwriting, and discuss 
private and public implications. Data from the National Mortality Followback 
Survey of 1986 were used to simulate current underwriting and minimal 
underwriting, excluding only those already eligible for benefits. Remaining 
disability, life expectancy, and premiums are compared under both underwriting 
assumptions. Under minimal underwriting, 98% of persons age 65 would be eligible 
to purchase disability protection through an integrated annuity, versus 77% 
under current underwriting. Premiums for both the income and disability 
components were lower with minimal underwriting. Combining income and disability 
protection may be able to expand private markets for long-term care financing 
beyond what appears possible in the long-term care insurance market. Public 
policy should avoid the distortion of choices created by focusing exclusively on 
an insurance model.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264302239014
PMID: 12611402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2003 Jul;95(1):49-56. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00671.2002. Epub 2003 Feb 28.

Local blood circulation among knee extensor synergists in relation to alternate 
muscle activity during low-level sustained contraction.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M, Masani K, Tachi M, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
