(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. kouzaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The relation between local circulation and alternate muscle activity among knee 
extensor synergists was determined during low-level sustained knee extension at 
2.5% of maximal voluntary contraction for 60 min in seven subjects. Blood volume 
of rectus femoris (RF) and vastus lateralis (VL) was assessed by using 
near-infrared spectroscopy. Surface electromyogram (EMG) was recorded from RF, 
VL, and vastus medialis (VM). Alternate muscle activity was observed between RF 
and either VL or VM. Cross-correlation analysis was used to investigate the 
relation between blood volume and integrated EMG (iEMG) sequences throughout the 
task. One negative peak in the cross-correlation function was seen between the 
iEMG and blood volume with time lag of 30-60 s, indicating that muscle activity 
increases (or decreases) with the decrease (or increase) in local circulation 
with the corresponding time lag. Two cases in the emergence of alternate muscle 
activities, i.e., an increase in the EMG of RF accompanied by a decline of EMG 
in VL (case I) and vice versa (case II) were further analyzed. The time lag 
between iEMG and blood volume was longer in case I than that in case II. These 
results were statistically significant in the RF but not in the VL. It is 
concluded that even during low-level sustained contraction, local circulation is 
modulated by the alternate muscle activity of knee extensor synergists, and a 
negative correlation between the muscle activity and blood volume sequences was 
found in only RF but not in VL.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00671.2002
PMID: 12611770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Gastrointest Endosc. 2003 Mar;57(3):311-8. doi: 10.1067/mge.2003.101.

Cost-effectiveness of screening a population with chronic gastroesophageal 
reflux.

Nietert PJ(1), Silverstein MD, Mokhashi MS, Kim CY, Glenn TF, Marsi VA, Hawes 
RH, Wallace MB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Care Research, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, South Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2003 Mar;57(3):377-80.

BACKGROUND: Persons with chronic esophageal reflux are at increased risk for the 
development of Barrett's esophagus and adenocarcinoma. Recently developed 
ultrathin endoscopes are less expensive and better tolerated than standard 
endoscopes, they can be used without sedation, and are sensitive and specific 
for Barrett's esophagus. The cost-effectiveness of one-time screening strategies 
were evaluated for 50-year-old patients with chronic reflux: no screening, 
standard endoscopy, and screening by an ultrathin endoscope.
METHODS: Markov models were created to simulate the clinical course for patients 
with chronic reflux. Costs and quality-adjusted life-years were estimated from 
cancer registry data, published medical data, and expert opinion.
RESULTS: Under baseline assumptions, no screening resulted in average costs of 
$11,785 per person and 19.3226 quality-adjusted life-years. Ultrathin endoscopy 
screening resulted in costs of $12,119 per person and 19.3326 quality-adjusted 
life-years, yielding a marginal cost-effectiveness ratio of $55,764 per 
quality-adjusted life-year. Using standard endoscopy yielded costs of $12,332 
with only slightly greater effectiveness, yielding a marginal cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $709,260 when compared with ultrathin endoscopy and $86,833 compared 
with no screening. Results were most sensitive to variation in the incidence of 
cancer in the population with Barrett's esophagus.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for Barrett's esophagus with ultrathin endoscopy is more 
cost-effective than standard endoscopy, and both strategies appear to improve 
quality-adjusted life-years among patients with chronic reflux at costs that are 
similar to those of other accepted preventive measures.

DOI: 10.1067/mge.2003.101
PMID: 12612508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Pediatr Radiol. 2003 Mar;33(3):211-5. doi: 10.1007/s00247-002-0844-y. Epub
2002  Dec 19.

Giant mycotic aneurysm of the internal carotid artery in a child: endovascular 
treatment.

Glaiberman CB(1), Towbin RB, Boal DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology (H066), Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 
Pennsylvania State University, P.O. Box 850, Hershey 17033, USA.

We present a case of a giant mycotic aneurysm of the left internal carotid 
artery in a child, the result of direct extension of a deep neck space 
infection. This lesion is life threatening and may put the patient at risk of 
unwarranted biopsy or drainage if not recognized. Diagnosis and treatment 
planning rely heavily on cross-sectional imaging, and angiography is frequently 
necessary. This case is unique for two reasons: (1) we present for the first 
time the MRI findings and (2) we describe an alternative to surgical ligation -- 
neurointerventional embolotherapy. Minimally invasive transcatheter embolization 
was successfully performed on our patient to occlude the abnormal left internal 
carotid artery segment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-002-0844-y
PMID: 12612824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Hastings Cent Rep. 2003 Jan-Feb;33(1):20-6.

Revisiting ethical guidelines for research with terminal wean and brain-dead 
participants.

Pentz RD, Flamm AL, Pasqualini R, Logothetis CJ, Arap W.

Some research is too risky to be conducted on anyone with a life expectancy of 
more than a few hours. Yet under some circumstances, the research can still be 
carried out by using subjects who are either brain dead or are soon to undergo a 
terminal wean, and who have articulated values that inclusion in the study can 
honor. So argues a team of ethicists and researchers at M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, where such research was recently undertaken.

PMID: 12613384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Public Health Rev. 2002;30(1-4):15-33.

Public health challenges of the 21st century and the role of schools of public 
health in Central and Eastern Europe.

Adány R(1), Hajdú PV, Székes G, Vokó Z, Kósa K.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Debrecen, Hungary. 
adany@jaguar.dote.hu

PMID: 12613695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Parasitology. 2003 Jan;126(Pt 1):87-101. doi: 10.1017/s0031182002002561.

On the interpretation of age-intensity profiles and dispersion patterns in 
parasitological surveys.

Duerr HP(1), Dietz K, Eichner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biometry, University of Tübingen, Germany. 
hans-peter.duerr@uni-tuebingen.de

The present paper describes how age-intensity profiles of macroparasite burdens 
are affected by processes underlying the distribution of the parasite numbers in 
host populations. In a comparative way, we consider the following 6 processes: 
(i) age-dependent exposure, (ii) parasite-induced host mortality, (iii) 
heterogeneity within, the host population, (iv) clumped infection, (v) 
density-dependent parasite mortality and (vi) density-dependent parasite 
establishment. For each of these processes, we show typical patterns in the 
age-intensity profile and provide, if possible, explicit and simple solutions 
for the age-dependent mean parasite burden and the corresponding dispersion 
patterns. Emphasis is given to density-dependent parasite establishment and to 
age-intensity profiles resulting from the superposition of different processes. 
By means of 2 examples we show that the interpretation of observed patterns can 
be ambiguous if more than 1 process takes place. These findings underline that 
age-intensity profiles should be interpreted on the basis of available a priori 
knowledge about the processes assumed to be involved. For purposes of testing 
different hypotheses, a simulation program is provided with which discrepancies 
between model prediction and data can be explored.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182002002561
PMID: 12613767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Apr;56(7):1595-604. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00159-4.

The new subjective medicine: taking the patient's point of view on health care 
and health.

Sullivan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Medical History and Ethics, University of 
Washington, 98195, Seattle, WA, USA. sullimar@u.washington.edu

Calls to respect patient autonomy and produce patient-centered outcomes have 
recently brought the patient's point of view back into the center of clinical 
medicine. Bioethics has argued that patient values must be respected in health 
care decisions. But it has generally not questioned medicine's goals, including 
its definition of health. For bioethics, health has remained an objective 
biological fact. However, pressures to improve the cost-effectiveness of medical 
care have increased interest in the subjective health and quality of life of 
patients. Perceived health, health-related quality of life, and health-state 
utilities bring health assessment progressively closer to the patient's 
perspective. Now even death's harm to patients is qualified by the value 
patients place on their health state. Medicine's epidemiological transition from 
acute to chronic disease is thus prompting an epistemological transition from 
primarily objective to primarily subjective evidence of health and health care 
effectiveness. Now some of the most important patient outcomes, like patient 
choices before them, are valid because they are subjective. Pathophysiology is 
appropriately becoming a means to produce health as it is defined from the 
patient's point of view. The physicians' job description will be changed to 
focus on patients' lives rather than patients' bodies. Definitive evaluations of 
medical effectiveness will occur within patients' lives rather than within 
doctors' hospitals. This further incorporation of patient subjectivity should 
carry us well beyond informed consent and the other protections for patient 
autonomy bequeathed to us by bioethics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00159-4
PMID: 12614708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. CMAJ. 2003 Mar 4;168(5):601.

Life span can be boosted by more than a decade for many, WHO says.

Sibbald B; WHO.

PMCID: PMC149273
PMID: 12615772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Hum Reprod. 2003 Mar;18(3):527-33. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deg101.

Poor response to ovulation induction is a stronger predictor of early menopause 
than elevated basal FSH: a life table analysis.

Lawson R(1), El-Toukhy T, Kassab A, Taylor A, Braude P, Parsons J, Seed P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Bexley PCT, Bexleyheath DA7 6HZ, UK.

BACKGROUND: During the course of assisted reproduction treatment, a number of 
women exhibit a "poor response" to ovulation induction, or demonstrate an 
elevated basal FSH level (> or =10 IU/l) at a young age. We sought to determine 
whether these women are at increased risk of early menopause and poor 
reproductive performance.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study included 118 "poor responders" with normal 
basal FSH level (<10 IU/l), 164 women with raised basal FSH (> or =10 IU/l), and 
265 controls, who underwent assisted reproduction treatment between 1987 and 
1998. All women were < 40 years of age at the time of treatment and had normal 
menstrual cycles. Participants were sent a postal questionnaire in 2000-2001, 
seeking information on ovarian function and reproductive performance following 
cessation of treatment.
RESULTS: After adjusting for age and smoking habits, women with poor response 
and raised basal FSH levels were more likely to experience symptoms of the 
peri-menopause [hazard ratios 2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.52-3.78, and 
2.76, 95% CI 1.78-4.29 respectively, P = 0.0001]. Poor responders were six times 
and 23 times more likely to experience the menopause within 10 years of 
treatment than those with raised basal FSH levels and controls respectively 
(hazard ratio 5.97 and 23.9, P = 0.015 and 0.002 respectively). Poor responders 
and those with raised basal FSH levels have half the chance of spontaneous 
conception after discontinuation of treatment compared with controls (P < 
0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: Both poor response to ovarian stimulation and raised basal FSH are 
markers of reduced ovarian reserve and predict an increased risk of early 
menopause.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deg101
PMID: 12615819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Cell Sci. 2003 Apr 1;116(Pt 7):1209-17. doi: 10.1242/jcs.00285.

Regulation of membrane expansion at the nerve growth cone.

Pfenninger KH(1), Laurino L, Peretti D, Wang X, Rosso S, Morfini G, Cáceres A, 
Quiroga S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Colorado, School 
of Medicine and Cancer Center, Denver, CO 80262, USA.

Exocytotic incorporation of plasmalemmal precursor vesicles (PPVs) into the cell 
surface is necessary for neurite extension and is known to occur mainly at the 
growth cone. This report examines whether this is a regulated event controlled 
by growth factors. The Golgi complex and nascent PPVs of hippocampal neurons in 
culture were pulse-labeled with fluorescent ceramide. We studied the dynamics of 
labeled PPVs upon arrival at the axonal growth cone. In controls and cultures 
stimulated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), PPV clusters persisted 
in growth cones with a half-life (t(1/2)) of >14 minutes. Upon challenge with 
IGF-1, however, fluorescent elements cleared from the growth cones with a t(1/2) 
of only 6 minutes. Plasmalemmal expansion was measured directly as 
externalization of membrane glycoconjugates in resealed growth cone particles 
(GCPs) isolated from fetal forebrain. These assays demonstrated that membrane 
expansion could be stimulated by IGF-1 in a dose-dependent manner but not by 
BDNF, even though intact, functional BDNF receptor was present on GCPs. Because 
both BDNF and IGF-1 are known to enhance neurite growth, but BDNF did not 
stimulate membrane expansion at the growth cone, we studied the effect of BDNF 
on the IGF-1 receptor. BDNF was found to cause the translocation of the 
growth-cone-specific IGF-1 receptor subunit beta(gc) to the distal axon, in a 
KIF2-dependent manner. We conclude that IGF-1 stimulates axonal assembly at the 
growth cone, and that this occurs via regulated exocytosis of PPVs. This 
mechanism is affected by BDNF only indirectly, by regulation of the beta(gc) 
level at the growth cone.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.00285
PMID: 12615964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Med Leg J. 2002;70(Pt 4):196-7. doi: 10.1258/rsmmlj.70.4.196.

Loss of earnings: a lifetime of opportunity.

Vogel T.

DOI: 10.1258/rsmmlj.70.4.196
PMID: 12616793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Magy Seb. 2002 Dec;55(6):343-7.

[Role of extra-anatomical bypasses in the treatment of aorto-iliac occlusion].

[Article in Hungarian]

Kaliszky P(1), Jámbor G, Gáti J, Pajor P, Gyurkovics E.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem AOK I. sz. Sebészeti Klinika, 1082 Budapest. 
ka@seb1.sote.hu

In the last six years we have performed 468 operations because of aortoiliac 
occlusion or septic complications of these arteries. 410 (87.6%) of these 
operations were anatomical reconstructions, in 58 (12.4%) patients we performed 
extra anatomical bypasses. The distribution of the operations was the following; 
12 obturator, 23 femoro-femoral crossover, 13 axillofemoral and 10 
axillobifemoral bypasses. The indication for extra-anatomical reconstruction in 
24 (41.4%) patients was septic complication (EABS), and in 34 cases (58.6%) poor 
general condition or difficulties during surgery. The average age of the 
patients with non-septic indication (EABNS) was significantly higher than the 
average age of the patients treated with anatomical reconstruction (AR) (66.3 
vs. 60.9 year, p < 0.01). There were more REDO operations in the group EABNS 
then in the AR group (35.3%/11.7% p < 0.02). Despite of the high operative risk, 
the rate of early complications (EABNS 13.8%, AR 10%) and postoperative 
mortality (EABNS 3.7%, AR 4.0%) was not statistically different between the two 
groups. If the indication was aorto-duodenal fistula (6 patients) or acute limb 
ischaemia (7 patients), the mortality was significantly higher compared to other 
extra-anatomical operations (46.2% vs. 4.4%, p < 0.01). The postoperative 
mortality after EABNS and EABS operations was similar (11.7% vs. 16.6%), but we 
performed more reoperations after EABS operations (10/24 vs. 2/34, p < 0.05). 
According to our early postoperative results elective extra-anatomical bypasses 
are suitable for the treatment of aortoiliac occlusion in high risk patients, 
with poor life expectancy. Extra-anatomical bypasses are performed because of 
acute ischemia or septic complications which are life or limb threatening 
complications, so early results must be validated concerning this fact.

PMID: 12616818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Clin Med (Lond). 2003 Jan-Feb;3(1):62-7. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.3-1-62.

Advances in rehabilitation: an overview and an odyssey.

Chamberlain AM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds, School of Medicine, Rehabilitation Division. 
m.a.chamberlain@leeds.ac.uk

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.3-1-62
PMCID: PMC4953361
PMID: 12617418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Clin Med (Lond). 2003 Jan-Feb;3(1):89-90. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.3-1-89.

Scientific conservatism.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.3-1-89
PMCID: PMC4953374
PMID: 12617430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Crit Care. 2003 Feb;7(1):72-8. doi: 10.1186/cc1865. Epub 2002 Dec 18.

Cost of intensive care in a Norwegian University hospital 1997-1999.

Flaatten H(1), Kvåle R.

Author information:
(1)Director of Intensive Care Unit, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive 
Care, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway. 
Hans.flaatten@helse-bergen.no

AIM: The present study was performed in order to document costs of intensive 
care in a Norwegian university hospital and to perform an average 
cost-effectiveness study using the expected remaining life-years in survivors 
after 18 months.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients admitted to the general intensive care unit 
(ICU) at Haukeland University Hospital from 1997 to 1999 were followed up to 18 
months post ICU using data from the Norwegian Peoples' registry. Our ICU 
patients have a further mortality equal to the average population in Norway from 
that time. By creating an age-matched and sex-matched sample of the general 
Norwegian population equal to survivors 18 months after ICU treatment, we could 
find the expected further survival time for each ICU survivor. Direct and 
indirect ICU expenses in the study period were retrieved using a 'top-down' 
method. Outcome assessment was performed using the total ICU expenses in the 
period divided by the sum of the life expectancy (years) in survivors after 18 
months.
RESULTS: The total ICU costs (converted to 2001 values) were 16,697,415, 
excluding the costs of radiology and the use of operating theatres, which were 
both impossible to retrieve. A total of 1051 patients were treated, of whom 
60.9% survived up to 18 months. Further total life expectancies were 24,428 
years. The average costs of an ICU day and stay per patient were 2601 and 
14,223, respectively, and the average cost per year of survival per patient was 
684.
DISCUSSION: The absolute costs were found to be higher than recent European ICU 
studies reporting on the cost of ICU treatment. However, the price of a further 
life-year in survivors was lower and was comparable with other medical 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/cc1865
PMCID: PMC154120
PMID: 12617743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Med Oral. 2003 Mar-Apr;8(2):129-35.

Dental treatment under general anesthesia: a useful procedure in the third 
millennium? (l).

[Article in English, Spanish]

Vargas Román Mdel P(1), Rodríguez Bermudo S, Machuca Portillo G.

Author information:
(1)Odontóloga, Colaborado Honoraria de Clínica Odontológica Integrada de 
pacientes Especiales, Facultad de Odontología de Sevilla, Seville.

Advances in medical science have increasingly extended human life expectancy, 
thereby increasing the number of risk patients who require dental treatment 
under conditions of maximum safety. On the other hand, a part of the population 
presents physical or mental impairments which preclude minimum cooperation with 
the dental professional to ensure treatment with the necessary guarantees. 
Dentists and stomatologists must therefore consider the possibility of 
performing general anesthesia in these special patients, as the only way to 
ensure adequate dental treatment.

PMID: 12618673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Am J Primatol. 2003 Mar;59(3):99-121. doi: 10.1002/ajp.10068.

Demography, female life history, and reproductive profiles among the chimpanzees 
of Mahale.

Nishida T(1), Corp N, Hamai M, Hasegawa T, Hiraiwa-Hasegawa M, Hosaka K, Hunt 
KD, Itoh N, Kawanaka K, Matsumoto-Oda A, Mitani JC, Nakamura M, Norikoshi K, 
Sakamaki T, Turner L, Uehara S, Zamma K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Sakyo, 
Kyoto, Japan. nishida@jinrui.zool.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Demography provides critical data to increase our understanding of the 
evolution, ecology, and conservation of primate populations. The chimpanzees of 
the Mahale Mountains National Park, Tanzania, have been studied for more than 34 
yr on the basis of individual identification and standardized attendance 
records. From this long-term study, we derived the following demographic data: 
The major cause of death was disease (48%), followed by senescence (24%) and 
within-species aggression (16%). Fifty percent of Mahale chimpanzees died before 
weaning. The median ages of female life history variables were: first maximal 
swelling, 10.0 yr (n = 5); emigration, 11.0 yr (n = 11); and first birth, 13.1 
yr (n = 5). The median period of adolescent infertility was 2.8 yr (n = 4) when 
calculated from the age at immigration to that at first birth. Female fecundity 
was highest between 20 and 35 yr of age, with an annual birth rate of 0.2. 
Twenty-six females that were observed from a young age (10-13 yr) to death at 
various ages (15-40 yr) gave birth to an average of 3.9 and weaned an average of 
1.4 offspring. Twenty-five females that were observed from middle age (18-33 yr) 
to death in older age (31-48) gave birth to an average of 2.7 and weaned an 
average of 2.0 offspring. The post-reproductive lifespan for female chimpanzees 
was defined as the number of years that passed from the year when the last 
offspring was born to the year when the female died, minus 5. Twenty-five 
percent of old females had a post-reproductive lifespan. The interbirth interval 
after the birth of a son (x = 72 mo) tended to be longer than that after the 
birth of a daughter (x = 66 mo). The extent of female transfer, which is a rule 
in chimpanzees, is influenced by the size and composition of the unit group and 
size of the overall local community.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.10068
PMID: 12619045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Environ Monit. 2003 Feb;5(1):166-74. doi: 10.1039/b206776p.

Intercommunity and temporal variation of eleven essential and five toxic 
elements in human placentas from deliveries in thirteen arctic and sub-arctic 
areas of Russia and Norway.

Odland JO(1), Nieboer E, Romanova N, Hofoss D, Thomassen Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, University of Tromso, N-9037 Tromso, Norway. 
jon.oyvind.odland@ism.uit.no

Comment on
    J Environ Monit. 2001 Feb;3(2):177-84.

Research is described that constitutes an extension of an earlier paper (J. 
Environ. Monit., 2001, 3, 177-184), in which concentrations were measured in 263 
human placentas of 11 essential elements (P, Ca, Mg, Cu, S, Na, Fe, Zn, K, Se, 
Mn) and 5 toxic elements (Ba, Sr, Pb, Ni, Cd). The additional data considered 
derive from earlier visits to 4 of the original 6 communities and 3 others, all 
but one of which are located in northern Norway and neighbouring areas of 
Russia. This more than doubled the number of placental samples available (263 to 
571). Unfortunately, the personal, life-style and morphometric information 
obtained for the first study group was not available for the additional mothers. 
Country differences were evident for all elements except Ba, Fe and Zn; Cd, Cu, 
Mn, Na, Se, Ni, Pb, Sr and S were higher and K, P, Ca and Mg were lower in 
Russia (p < 0.03). Not unexpectedly, the highest median lead concentration was 
observed for the largest city in the western arctic region of Russia, namely 
Murmansk. Similarly, the higher median nickel level observed for Russia reflects 
the established observation that urinary nickel concentrations are higher in the 
Russian than in the Norwegian communities. Even though sampling was performed at 
different times of the year and before and after a 3-year interval in four 
centres, inter-collection differences were of relatively small magnitude and 
appear not to be linked to seasonal or temporal changes. Principal component 
analysis (PCA) confirmed the prominence of Factor 1, which grouped those metals 
that are known to form insoluble phosphate complexes and whose concentrations 
showed a dependence on gestational age and maternal smoking in the earlier 
study. It is concluded that PCA is a powerful statistical tool for exploring and 
identifying fundamental pathways and processes involved in governing the 
inorganic elemental composition of placental tissue. It also has the potential 
of identifying study limitations and quality assurance shortfalls. Further our 
findings show promise that placental concentrations of toxic elements may serve 
as an index of exposure and of nutritional intake for selected essential 
micro-elements.

DOI: 10.1039/b206776p
PMID: 12619773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Curr Biol. 2003 Mar 4;13(5):427-31. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(03)00108-8.

Identification of a DAF-16 transcriptional target gene, scl-1, that regulates 
longevity and stress resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Ookuma S(1), Fukuda M, Nishida E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

In Caenorhabditis elegans, an insulin-like signaling pathway, which includes the 
daf-2 and age-1 genes, controls longevity and stress resistance. Downregulation 
of this pathway activates the forkhead transcription factor DAF-16, whose 
transcriptional targets are suggested to play an essential role in controlling 
the phenotypes governed by this pathway. We have surveyed the genes that have 
the DAF-16 consensus binding element (DBE) within putative regulatory regions. 
Here, we show that one such gene, termed scl-1, is a positive regulator of 
longevity and stress resistance. Expression of scl-1 is upregulated in 
long-lived daf-2 and age-1 mutants and is undetectable in a short-lived daf-16 
mutant. SCL-1 is a putative secretory protein with an SCP domain and is 
homologous to the mammalian cysteine-rich secretory protein (CRISP) family. 
scl-1 is required for the extension of the life span of daf-2 and age-1 mutants, 
and downregulation of scl-1 reduces both life span and stress resistance of this 
animal. SCL-1, whose expression is dependent on DAF-16, is the first example of 
a putative secretory protein that positively regulates longevity and stress 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(03)00108-8
PMID: 12620193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Leuk Res. 2003 May;27(5):397-404. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00220-5.

Refractory anemia with excess of blasts in transformation: analysis of 
reclassification according to the WHO proposals.

Strupp C(1), Gattermann N, Giagounidis A, Aul C, Hildebrandt B, Haas R, Germing 
U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Clinical Immunology, 
Heinrich-Heine-University, Moorenstreet 5, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. 
c.strupp@web.de

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2003 Jul;27(7):567-9.

The category of "refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation" 
(RAEB-T) has been abandoned in the new WHO-classification of myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS). The majority of patients previously belonging to this category 
are now classified as acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). In the FAB-classification, 
patients had been assigned to the RAEB-T category if they had either (1) a 
medullary blast count between 20 and 30% or (2) a peripheral blast count of at 
least 5%, or (3) Auer rods detectable, irrespective of the blast count. We 
analyzed these subtypes of RAEB-T in terms of hematological characteristics, 
karyotype anomalies, and prognosis. Patients with more than 20% medullary blasts 
and patients with at least 5% peripheral blasts as the sole defining parameter 
for RAEB-T had a median survival of 6 months, as compared to 11 months in 
patients with Auer rods as the sole defining parameter. The presence of Auer 
rods therefore does not convey a particularly bad prognosis and does not justify 
placing patients in a high-risk category of MDS or even classifying them as AML. 
This finding supports the elimination of Auer rods as a parameter for 
classification in the new WHO system. On the other hand, the reclassification 
into RAEB II (according to WHO proposals) of previous RAEB-T patients with a 
peripheral blast count of at least 5% is problematic, because this feature 
predicts a median survival not different from that of AML patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00220-5
PMID: 12620291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Leuk Res. 2003 May;27(5):405-11. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00223-0.

A randomized study comparing interferon (IFN alpha) plus low-dose cytarabine and 
interferon plus hydroxyurea (HU) in early chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML).

Kühr T(1), Burgstaller S, Apfelbeck U, Linkesch W, Seewann H, Fridrik M, 
Michlmayr G, Krieger O, Lutz D, Lin W, Pont J, Köck L, Abbrederis K, Baldinger 
C, Buder R, Geissler D, Hausmaninger H, Lang A, Zabernigg A, Duba C, Hilbe W, 
Eisterer W, Fiegl M, Greil R, Gastl G, Thaler J; Austrian CML Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital, Grieskirchnerstr. 42, 
A-4600 Wels, Austria. thomas.kuehr@khwels.at

This multicenter randomized phase III study was designed to compare the efficacy 
and toxicity of IFN alpha-2c (3.5 MU/d) in combination with either araC (10 
mg/m(2) d1-10) or hydroxyurea (HU: 25 mg/kg per day) in newly diagnosed CML 
patients. A total of 114 patients were randomized. Following a median 
observation period of 36 (range 1-73) months the major cytogenetic response 
rates were 25 and 27% and the 4-year survival probabilities 62.5 and 63% for the 
araC and HU group, respectively. While the overall toxicity profile was 
comparable between both groups, patients in the HU arm exhibited a slightly 
higher degree of WHO grades 3 and 4 non-hematological toxicities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00223-0
PMID: 12620292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Lancet. 2003 Mar 1;361(9359):717-25. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12655-4.

Effectiveness and costs of interventions to lower systolic blood pressure and 
cholesterol: a global and regional analysis on reduction of 
cardiovascular-disease risk.

Murray CJ(1), Lauer JA, Hutubessy RC, Niessen L, Tomijima N, Rodgers A, Lawes 
CM, Evans DB.

Author information:
(1)Evidence and Information for Policy, World Health Organization, 27, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2005 Jul 16-22;366(9481):204.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease accounts for much morbidity and mortality in 
developed countries and is becoming increasingly important in less developed 
regions. Systolic blood pressure above 115 mm Hg accounts for two-thirds of 
strokes and almost half of ischaemic heart disease cases, and cholesterol 
concentrations exceeding 3.8 mmol/L for 18% and 55%, respectively. We report 
estimates of the population health effects, and costs of selected interventions 
to reduce the risks associated with high cholesterol concentrations and blood 
pressure in areas of the world with differing epidemiological profiles.
METHODS: Effect sizes were derived from systematic reviews or meta-analyses, and 
the effect on health outcomes projected over time for populations with differing 
age, sex, and epidemiological profiles. Incidence data from estimates of burden 
of disease were used in a four-state longitudinal population model to calculate 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted and patients treated. Costs were 
taken from previous publications, or estimated by local experts, in 14 regions.
FINDINGS: Non-personal health interventions, including government action to 
stimulate a reduction in the salt content of processed foods, are cost-effective 
ways to limit cardiovascular disease and could avert over 21 million DALYs per 
year worldwide. Combination treatment for people whose risk of a cardiovascular 
event over the next 10 years is above 35% is also cost effective leading to 
substantial additional health benefits by averting an additional 63 million 
DALYs per year worldwide.
INTERPRETATION: The combination of personal and non-personal health 
interventions evaluated here could lower the global incidence of cardiovascular 
events by as much as 50%.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12655-4
PMID: 12620735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2003 Mar;111(3):1110-21. doi: 
10.1097/01.PRS.0000046614.84464.84.

Breast reconstruction in older women: advantages of autogenous tissue.

Lipa JE(1), Youssef AA, Kuerer HM, Robb GL, Chang DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

As the population ages, the treatment of breast cancer among elderly women is 
becoming increasingly common. Decisions with regard to breast reconstruction 
require not only consideration of patient age and comorbidities but also a need 
to balance life expectancy with quality of life. Although it is often assumed 
that implant-based breast reconstruction is the least disruptive method, 
especially among patients who may be facing limited survival times, it was 
hypothesized that autogenous tissue breast reconstruction is a well-tolerated 
and perhaps preferable means of reconstruction for older women who choose to 
undergo reconstruction following mastectomy. No large series of autogenous 
tissue reconstructions in this age group has been presented. A retrospective 
study of 84 postmastectomy reconstructions (66 unilateral and 18 bilateral; 78.6 
percent immediate) performed at the authors' institution for 81 women 65 years 
of age or older, between April of 1987 and December of 2000, was undertaken. 
Reconstructions were implant-based ( = 26), latissimus dorsi flap-based ( = 24), 
or transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous (TRAM) flap-based ( = 34). Of the 34 
TRAM flaps, 21 were free or supercharged. Breast complications were more 
frequent ( < 0.05) among recipients of implant-based reconstructions (76.9 
percent) than among recipients of latissimus dorsi flap (41.7 percent) or TRAM 
flap (35.3 percent) reconstructions. In multivariate logistic regression 
analyses, comorbidities, smoking, radiotherapy, and body mass index had no 
effect. Medical complications without long-term sequelae were observed for two 
patients who underwent latissimus dorsi flap reconstructions and two patients 
who underwent free TRAM flap reconstructions; the difference in the rates of 
medical complications was not significant. At the mean follow-up time of 4.2 
years, 92.8 percent of all study patients exhibited no evidence of disease. 
Notably, despite being free of disease, seven of the 26 patients (27 percent) 
who underwent implant-based reconstructions abandoned further reconstructive 
efforts after complications necessitated implant removal. It was concluded that 
age alone should not determine the type of breast reconstruction and that 
autogenous tissue breast reconstruction can be a safe successful alternative for 
women 65 years of age or older.

DOI: 10.1097/01.PRS.0000046614.84464.84
PMID: 12621181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Am J Hum Biol. 2003 Mar-Apr;15(2):192-5. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.10132.

Comparative survival advantage of males with Down syndrome.

Glasson EJ(1), Sullivan SG, Hussain R, Petterson BA, Montgomery PD, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Ageing, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia.

In virtually all countries life expectancy is longer in females than in males. A 
multigeneration, population-based dataset was used to investigate whether a 
gender-specific difference in life expectancy could be determined in a large 
cohort (n = 1,332) of people with Down syndrome resident in Western Australia. 
Contrary to the established pattern of longevity in the general population, and 
in most people with intellectual disability, males with Down syndrome had a 
significantly greater life expectancy than females with the same disorder. The 
reasons for this atypical finding are discussed in terms of the patterns of 
morbidity experienced by people with Down syndrome, especially at early and late 
stages of their lifespan.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.10132
PMID: 12621607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Neurooncol. 2003 Jan;61(2):127-36. doi: 10.1023/a:1022187502917.

Quantitative measurement of quality outcome in malignant glioma patients using 
an independent living score (ILS). Assessment of a retrospective cohort.

Recht L(1), Glantz M, Chamberlain M, Hsieh CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, MA 01655, USA. Lawrence.Recht@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: Although a number of tools have been developed to measure 'quality of 
life' in patients with malignant glioma, there remains no completely 
satisfactory technique that incorporates a quality of life measure into survival 
analysis. We propose that a patient's ability to maintain independent activity 
offers a way to accomplish this goal.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An independent living score (ILS) is generated by awarding 
points on a monthly basis based on Karnofsky score and weighing the score based 
on the particular month of the clinical course. The ILS has a large range for 
any given survival, and can discriminate important treatment effects to which 
standard survival analyses are completely insensitive. Using this score and 
several variations, we were able to retrospectively analyze a patient cohort to 
assess what correlated with ILS.
RESULTS: We found a strong correlation with survival of all the measures tested. 
Interestingly, we found that patients for whom a total resection was performed 
and those who were most intensively treated had significantly higher ILS values, 
suggesting that not only did more aggressive treatment improve survival but that 
it did not simply increase survival at the expense of the time a patient 
remained independent.
CONCLUSION: Since the general course for patients with malignant glioma is one 
of increasing disability and loss of independence, we feel that these measures 
can serve as a way to distinguish between those therapies that increase survival 
at the expense of quality of life versus those that do not. Consideration should 
be given to incorporating these measures into prospective trials.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022187502917
PMID: 12622451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2003 Mar;129(3):297-304. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.129.3.297.

The cost-effectiveness of hearing-aid fitting in the Netherlands.

Joore MA(1), Van Der Stel H, Peters HJ, Boas GM, Anteunis LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
University Hospital Maastricht, the Netherlands. Mjo@aozg.azm.nl

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of hearing-aid fitting.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model based on aggregate data 
and results from a prospective intervention study.
SETTING: The cost-effectiveness study was based in the general community. The 
prospective study was hospital based, as 85% of the first-time hearing-aid users 
attend a hospital in the process of hearing-aid fitting.
PATIENTS: The prospective intervention study included adult first-time 
hearing-aid users with no contraindications for hearing-aid use.
INTERVENTION: The usual process of hearing-aid fitting in the Netherlands.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The QALYs 
were based on EuroQol scores. We included direct and indirect costs in the 
analysis.
RESULTS: The mean improvement on the EuroQol measure was 0.03 (95% confidence 
interval [CI], -0.03 to 0.08), and on the hearing-specific visual analog scale, 
0.27 (95% CI, 0.22-0.31). The base-case outcome based on the EuroQol was 15 
807/QALY (US dollars 17 072/QALY) (CI, -24 239/QALY to 3718/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of this base-case estimate, fitting of hearing aids is 
considered a cost-effective health care intervention. The CI indicates that the 
result is not unambiguously positive, probably because the EuroQol lacked 
sensitivity for the evaluation of hearing-aid fitting. Until now, no study has 
found an effect of hearing-aid fitting on generic quality of life. Therefore, 
measures are needed that are suitable for the evaluation of the effects of 
interventions for sensory disabilities, such as the fitting of hearing aids, on 
generic quality of life.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.129.3.297
PMID: 12622538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nurs Inq. 2003 Mar;10(1):2-10. doi: 10.1046/j.1440-1800.2003.00162.x.

Killing for the state: the darkest side of American nursing.

Holmes D(1), Federman C.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada. dhlomes@uottawa.ca

Comment in
    Nurs Inq. 2003 Mar;10(1):1.
    Nurs Inq. 2003 Jun;10(2):139; author reply 140-1.

The aim of this article is to bring to the attention of the international 
nursing community the discrepancy between a pervasive 'caring' nursing discourse 
and a most unethical nursing practice in the United States. In this article, we 
present a duality: the conflict in American prisons between nursing ethics and 
the killing machinery. The US penal system is a setting in which trained 
healthcare personnel practice the extermination of life. We look upon the 
sanitization of deathwork as an application of healthcare professionals' skills 
and knowledge and their appropriation by the state to serve its ends. A review 
of the states' death penalty statutes shows that healthcare workers are involved 
in the capital punishment process and shielded by American laws (and to a 
certain extent by professional boards through their inaction). We also argue 
that the law's language often masks that involvement; and explain how states 
further that duplicity behind legal formalisms. In considering the important 
role healthcare providers, namely nurses and physicians, play in administering 
death to the condemned, we assert that nurses and physicians are part of the 
states' penal machinery in America. Nurses and physicians (as carriers of 
scientific knowledge, and also as agents of care) are intrinsic to the American 
killing enterprise. Healthcare professionals who take part in execution 
protocols are state functionaries who approach the condemned body as angels of 
death: they constitute an extension of the state which exercises its sovereign 
power over captive prisoners.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1800.2003.00162.x
PMID: 12622799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Med Eng Technol. 2003 Jan-Feb;27(1):1-10. doi:
10.1080/0309190021000043945.

Technological advances in renal care.

Hoenich N(1), Lindley E, Stoves J.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology, School of Clinical Medical Sciences, Medical School, University 
of Newcastle, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyn,e NE2 4HH, UK.

The first systems for treating kidney failure were developed in the 1940's, when 
it was found that blood could be successfully cleared of toxins and returned to 
the body using a relatively simple device based on artificial sausage skin 
wrapped around a wooden frame. This process was used to replace the function of 
the kidney, allowing patients to recover from conditions such as poisoning or 
crush injuries that temporarily stop the kidneys working. In the 1960's, 
advances in technology made long-term replacement of renal function using 
haemodialysis machines possible and allowed surgeons to carry out kidney 
transplants between people who were not identical twins. Long-term peritoneal 
dialysis became a viable treatment option two decades later. There are now over 
1.1 million people world-wide receiving regular dialysis treatment and around 
340,000 people living with a donated kidney. This paper reviews the pioneering 
work in the treatment of kidney failure and looks at some of the recent advances 
in equipment design, materials science, immunosuppression and information 
technology that aim to improve the quality of life and the life expectancy for 
patients living on renal replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/0309190021000043945
PMID: 12623606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003 Mar 15;167(6):810-2. doi:
10.1164/rccm.2301001.

Emergence of nontuberculous mycobacteria as pathogens in cystic fibrosis.

Griffith DE.

Comment on
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003 Mar 15;167(6):828-34.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003 Mar 15;167(6):835-40.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.2301001
PMID: 12623856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. BMJ. 2003 Mar 8;326(7388):522; discussion 522. doi:
10.1136/bmj.326.7388.522.

Modelling the cost effectiveness of interferon beta and glatiramer acetate in 
the management of multiple sclerosis. Commentary: evaluating disease modifying 
treatments in multiple sclerosis.

Chilcott J(1), McCabe C, Tappenden P, O'Hagan A, Cooper NJ, Abrams K, Claxton K, 
Miller DH; Cost Effectiveness of Multiple Sclerosis Therapies Study Group.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research Rapid Reviews Group, School of Health 
and Related Research, University of Sheffield.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of four disease modifying 
treatments (interferon betas and glatiramer acetate) for relapsing remitting and 
secondary progressive multiple sclerosis in the United Kingdom.
DESIGN: Modelling cost effectiveness.
SETTING: UK NHS.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis and secondary 
progressive multiple sclerosis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality adjusted life year gained.
RESULTS: The base case cost per quality adjusted life year gained by using any 
of the four treatments ranged from pound 42,000 (66,469 dollars; 61,630 euro) to 
pound 98,000 based on efficacy information in the public domain. Uncertainty 
analysis suggests that the probability of any of these treatments having a cost 
effectiveness better than pound 20,000 at 20 years is below 20%. The key 
determinants of cost effectiveness were the time horizon, the progression of 
patients after stopping treatment, differential discount rates, and the price of 
the treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost effectiveness varied markedly between the interventions. 
Uncertainty around point estimates was substantial. This uncertainty could be 
reduced by conducting research on the true magnitude of the effect of these 
drugs, the progression of patients after stopping treatment, the costs of care, 
and the quality of life of the patients. Price was the key modifiable 
determinant of the cost effectiveness of these treatments.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.326.7388.522
PMCID: PMC150460
PMID: 12623909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Am J Crit Care. 2003 Mar;12(2):94-7.

Meeting unmet needs in patients with sepsis: the role of drotrecogin alfa 
(activated).

Morris PE.

Comment in
    Am J Crit Care. 2003 Sep;12(5):398; author reply 398.

PMID: 12625165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Bus Ethics. 2002 Mar;36(1-2):187-94. doi: 10.1023/a:1014266127005.

Entrepreneurial "mining" of the dying: viatical transactions, tax strategies and 
mind games.

Trinkaus J(1), Giacalone JA.

Author information:
(1)Baruch College (CUNY), USA.

Conceptually, entrepreneurship is seen as the engine that drives a robust 
economy, promotes a favorable quality of life, and assures the availability of 
the attributes needed for meaningful living. However, like many popular concepts 
in this world, its limitations are normally not well acknowledged. A grouping of 
entrepreneurial ventures which as recently come into existence deals with the 
personal fiscal issues associated with the end-of-life phase of the human cycle. 
While generally praised as humanitarian services for society, that are assuredly 
within legal bounds, these activities have potentially significant negative 
implications. When examined from an ethical perspective, some questionable 
practices became apparent. Three such undertakings in particular have to do with 
the terminally ill and are examined in this paper. The first, viatical 
transactions, is defined as the transfer of a life insurance policy's ownership 
to someone who does not have an insurable interest in the life of the insured 
individual. The second, creative tax shelters for wealthy people involved in 
estate planning, involves hiring unrelated parties, particularly those who are 
young and in failing health, to do the dying for the principal. The third, mind 
games, involves curtailing the use of medical resources for the dying. The 
justification for this is rationing scarce medical resources.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1014266127005
PMID: 12625344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2003 Feb 28;52(8):149-51.

Pregnancy in perinatally HIV-infected adolescents and young adults--Puerto Rico, 
2002.

