Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Erratum in
    MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2003 Mar 7;52(9):191.

Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral (ARV) therapy in the 
United States in the mid-1990s, the life expectancy of U.S. children who were 
infected perinatally with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has increased 
substantially. As a result, the number of perinatally HIV-infected females in 
the United States who are becoming both sexually active and pregnant is 
increasing. During August 1998-May 2002, a total of 10 pregnancies were 
identified among eight perinatally HIV-infected adolescents and young adults in 
Puerto Rico; in April 2002, the Puerto Rico Department of Health (PRDOH) asked 
CDC to assist in assessing such pregnancies. This report describes these 
pregnancies and discusses factors associated with sexual activity and pregnancy. 
The findings suggest that increasing numbers of pregnancies will occur among 
perinatally HIV-infected adolescents and young adults and that appropriately 
tailored reproductive health interventions should be developed.

PMID: 12625497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Mar 18;100(6):3369-73. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0634985100. Epub 2003 Mar 7.

Conditional tradeoffs between aging and organismal performance of Indy 
long-lived mutant flies.

Marden JH(1), Rogina B, Montooth KL, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, 208 Mueller Lab, Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802, USA.

Alterations that extend the life span of animals and yeast typically involve 
decreases in metabolic rate, growth, physical activity, and/or early-life 
fecundity. This negative correlation between life span and the ability to 
assimilate and process energy, to move, grow, and reproduce, raises questions 
about the potential utility of life span extension. Tradeoffs between early-life 
fitness and longevity are central to theories of the evolution of aging, which 
suggests there is necessarily a price to be paid for reducing the rate of aging. 
It is not yet clear whether life span can be extended without undesirable 
effects on metabolism and fecundity. Here, we report that the long-lived Indy 
mutation in Drosophila causes a decrease in the slope of the mortality curve 
consistent with a slowing in the rate of aging without a concomitant reduction 
in resting metabolic rate, flight velocity, or age-specific fecundity under 
normal rearing conditions. However, Indy mutants on a decreased-calorie diet 
have reduced fecundity, suggesting that a tradeoff between longevity and this 
aspect of performance is conditional, i.e., the tradeoff can occur in a 
stressful environment while being absent in a more favorable environment. These 
results provide evidence that there do exist mechanisms, albeit conditional, 
that can extend life span without significant reduction in fecundity, metabolic 
rate, or locomotion.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0634985100
PMCID: PMC152299
PMID: 12626742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2002;5(4):285-90. doi:
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500605.

Outcome and complications of radical prostatectomy in patients with PSA <10 
ng/ml: comparison between the retropubic, perineal and laparoscopic approach.

Salomon L(1), Levrel O, Anastasiadis AG, Saint F, de La Taille A, Cicco A, 
Vordos D, Hoznek A, Chopin D, Abbou CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Henri Mondor Hospital, Creteil, France. 
aa910@columbia.edu

The objective of this work was to evaluate the oncological outcomes and 
complications of prostate cancer patients with prostate specific antigen 
(PSA)<10 ng/ml after radical prostatectomy by retropubic, perineal and 
laparoscopic approach. From 1988 to 2001, 306 patients with PSA<10 ng/ml 
underwent radical prostatectomy by the retropubic, perineal or laparoscopic 
approach. Mean operative time, complication rates, length of hospital stay, 
catheterization time and pathological results were reviewed. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis was used to evaluate the likelihood of biochemical PSA recurrence. 
There were no statistical differences between the three groups in terms of 
preoperative characteristics except for PSA levels (5.5, 6.5 and 6.6 ng/ml for 
the retropubic, perineal, and laparoscopic approach, respectively, P<0.05) and 
for the T1c stage prevalence (50%, 43.1% and 68.4%, P<0.05). Operating time was 
significatively longer in the laparoscopic approach (266 min), whereas 
transfusion rate (22.1%), bladder catetherization (12.1 days), and length of 
hospital stay (12.1 days) were higher in the retropubic group (P<0.05). The 
percentage of medical and surgical complications were 6.9%, 3.1% and 3.4% 
(P<0.05) and 18.6%, 16.9% and 11.6% (P<0.05) for the retropubic, perineal, and 
laparoscopic approach, respectively. Pathological staging revealed pT2 in 76.7%, 
78.4% and 81.3% for retropubic, perineal and laparoscopic approach, respectively 
(P<0.05). Positive surgical positive margins were noted in 20.9%, 18.4% and 
20.6% (P>0.05). The actuarial 3-year recurrence-free survival rate was 89.3%, 
89.2% and 86.2% (P>0.05) for retropubic, perineal and laparoscopic approach, 
respectively. It can be concluded that in patients with preoperative PSA<10 
ng/ml, clinical outcome and complication rates were similar, regardless of the 
choice of surgical approach.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500605
PMID: 12627213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Apr;120(4):384-90. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.10191.

Human life histories and the demographic transition: a case study from Finland, 
1870-1949.

Korpelainen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics, Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, 
FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland. helena.korpelainen@helsinki.fi

The life histories of humans who were engaged in reproduction during the 
demographic transition were investigated. It was discovered that these life 
histories were subject to great changes during the period involving the birth 
cohorts from the years 1870-1949. Although the number of all and surviving 
children decreased during this period, the individual fitness values (lambda) of 
females remained quite even. The lambda values are sensitive not only to 
reproductive quantity but also to the timing of reproduction. Therefore, the 
effective change in female fitness during the demographic transition may not be 
as dramatic as previously thought. When studying the level of selection (or 
rather the opportunity for selection), it was found that mortality selection 
steadily decreased to a very low level. However, fertility selection and total 
selection, which were relatively low for the cohorts 1870-1889, increased before 
the steep decrease that was detected for the cohorts 1930-1949. The situation 
reflects the presence of considerable variance in fertility for the cohorts 
1890-1929, when the mean fertility was decreasing. A previously found trade-off 
between female longevity and reproductive success appeared less significant, 
apparently due to the presence of more plentiful resources and voluntary 
limitation of reproduction. The deviation from the potential fitness 
maximization and the presence of subfertility have become prevalent in human 
populations.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10191
PMID: 12627533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2003 Feb;43(2):61-8. doi: 10.2176/nmc.43.61.

Disconnecting surgical treatment of hypothalamic hamartoma in children and 
adults with refractory epilepsy and proposal of a new classification.

Delalande O(1), Fohlen M.

Author information:
(1)Unité de neurochirurgie pédiatrique, Fondation Ophtalmologique A. de 
Rothschild, Paris, France. odelalande@fo-rothschild.fr

A series of 17 patients aged from 9 months to 32 years with refractory epilepsy 
due to hypothalamic hamartoma were treated by total removal (one case) and 
disconnection (16 cases) between 1997 and 2002. The mean age at seizure onset 
was 16 months. Sixteen patients had gelastic seizures, 14 had partial seizures 
and three had generalized tonic-clonic seizures. The mean seizure frequency was 
21 per day. Four patients had borderline intelligence quotient and the others 
were mentally retarded. Five patients presented with precocious puberty, one 
with acromegaly, and four suffered from obesity. Brain magnetic resonance 
imaging, performed at least twice in each patient, showed the hamartoma as a 
stable homogeneous interpeduncular mass implanted either on the mammilary 
tubercle or on the wall of the third ventricle with variable extension to the 
bottom. Ictal single photon emission computed tomography, performed in four 
patients, showed hyperperfusion within the hamartoma in two patients. 
Twenty-five operations were performed in the 17 patients. The first patient 
underwent total removal of the hamartoma, whereas the following 16 patients 
underwent disconnection through open surgery (14 procedures) and/or endoscopy (9 
procedures). Eight patients became seizure-free, one patient had only brief 
gelastic seizures, and eight patients were dramatically improved with a mean 
follow up of 18.6 months (8 days to 43 months). Surgery was safe in all but two 
patients: the first patient had transient hemiplegia and the third cranial nerve 
paresis, and the other developed hemiplegia due to ischemia of the middle 
cerebral artery territory. The quality of life, and behavior and school 
performance were greatly improved in most patients. Our series illustrates the 
feasibility and relative safety of disconnection surgery for hypothalamic 
hamartomas with seizure relief in 53% of patients and dramatic improvement in 
the others. Surgical observations led us to propose a new anatomical 
classification according to the anatomical relationship between the hamartoma 
and the adjacent hypothalamus and third ventricle. Endoscopic disconnection 
seems to be a very safe way to treat hamartomas in intraventricular locations.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.43.61
PMID: 12627881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(5):305-14. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200321050-00002.

Cost effectiveness of alendronate (fosamax) for the treatment of osteoporosis 
and prevention of fractures.

Johnell O(1), Jönsson B, Jönsson L, Black D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Malmö University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The Fracture Intervention Trial (FIT) demonstrated that the 
bisphosphonate alendronate reduces the risk of hip, spine and wrist fracture in 
osteoporotic women by approximately one half.
OBJECTIVE: To use data from FIT to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
alendronate.
DESIGN: A Markov model was developed for a cohort of Swedish women, comparable 
in relative fracture risk to the women enrolled in the FIT vertebral fracture 
arm (i.e. age 71 years with low bone mass plus at least one prior spine 
fracture). The women in the model (with low bone mass and a previous spine 
fracture) were exposed to alendronate therapy and transitioned over time from a 
'well' health state to health states of 'hip fracture', 'spine fracture', 'wrist 
fracture' or 'death'. All costs were calculated in 2000 Swedish kronors (SEK).
TIME HORIZON: In the Markov model our base-case treatment duration was 5 years 
followed by a 5-year period where the benefit declined linearly to 0.
RESULTS: We found that treating 71-year-old osteoporotic women with a prior 
spine fracture with alendronate resulted in a cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained of SEK76000, which is well below the threshold for cost 
effectiveness of SEK300000. For women aged 65 years, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio increased to SEK173000 and for women aged 77 years, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio decreased to SEK52000.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating older osteoporotic women with alendronate was more cost 
effective than treating younger women with osteoporosis, and treating 
osteoporotic women with prior spine fracture was more cost effective than 
treating osteoporotic women without prior spine fracture. However, the costs per 
QALY gained for all populations studied were below generally accepted thresholds 
for cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321050-00002
PMID: 12627984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. An Pediatr (Barc). 2003 Jan;58(1):39-44. doi: 10.1016/s1695-4033(03)77989-2.

[Complementary therapies in cystic fibrosis: evidence of therapeutic benefits 
and treatment recommendations].

[Article in Spanish]

Salcedo Posadas A(1), Girón Moreno R, Beltrán Bengoechea B.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Fibrosis Quística. Hospital Infantil Universitario del Niño 
Jesús-Hospital de la Princesa. Madrid. España. asalacedo@hnjs.insalud.es

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal-recessive disorder that predominantly 
affects the respiratory system. When this disease was described in 1938 the 
mortality rate was approximately 70 % in the first year of life. Survival has 
dramatically increased from a median of approximately 4 years in the 1960s to 19 
years in the 1970s and 33 years in 2001 according to figures from the American 
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. This impressive increase in the life expectancy of 
individuals with CF is undoubtedly related to recent advances in the 
organization of specialized CF units and to the use of new therapies against 
respiratory involvement.The traditional basis of treatment for CF lung disease 
includes nutritional support, antibiotic therapy, chest physical therapy and 
aerobic exercise. Preventive measures such as influenza vaccination and 
avoidance of tobacco smoke are also useful. Several new approaches such as ion 
transport therapy, protein therapy and gene therapy are currently being 
developed. Many studies have provided clear evidence of the therapeutic benefits 
of antibiotics, respiratory physiotherapy, exercise, and nutrition. In this 
article we review the scientific evidence on the advantages of the use of 
several therapeutic interventions against inflammation, increased sputum 
viscoelasticity and adhesiveness, and bronchial obstruction in CF patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1695-4033(03)77989-2
PMID: 12628117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. BJOG. 2003 Mar;110(3):255-62.

A cost-utility analysis of tension-free vaginal tape versus colposuspension for 
primary urodynamic stress incontinence.

Manca A(1), Sculpher MJ, Ward K, Hilton P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of tension-free vaginal tape 
compared with open Burch colposuspension as a primary treatment for urodynamic 
stress incontinence.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis alongside a multicentre randomised comparative 
trial.
SETTING: Gynaecology or Urology departments in 14 centres in the UK and Ireland, 
including University-associated teaching hospitals and district general 
hospitals.
POPULATION: Women with urodynamic stress incontinence. Exclusion criteria were: 
(1) detrusor overactivity; (2) major voiding problems; (3) prolapse; (4) 
previous surgery for incontinence or prolapse.
METHODS: Resource use data were collected on all 344 patients in the trial, 
including length of hospital stay, time in theatre and management of 
complications; resource use was costed using UK unit costs at 1999-2000 prices.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Health outcomes were expressed in terms of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) between baseline and six months follow up, 
based on women's responses to the EQ-5D health questionnaire.
RESULTS: Tension-free vaginal tape resulted in a mean cost saving of pound 243 
(95% CI pound 341 to pound 201) compared with colposuspension. Differential mean 
QALYs per patient (tension-free vaginal tape - colposuspension) was 0.01 (95% CI 
-0.01 to 0.03). The probability of tension-free vaginal tape being, on average, 
less costly than colposuspension, was 100%, and the probability of tension-free 
vaginal tape being more cost effective than colposuspension was 94.6% if the 
decision-maker was willing to pay pound 30,000 per additional QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this trial suggest that, over a post-operative 
period of six months, tension-free vaginal tape is a cost effective alternative 
to colposuspension. The results will need to be reassessed on the basis of 
longer follow up.

PMID: 12628263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Prev Vet Med. 2003 Apr 30;58(1-2):63-74. doi: 10.1016/s0167-5877(03)00010-2.

Mortality of purebred and mixed-breed dogs in Denmark.

Proschowsky HF(1), Rugbjerg H, Ersbøll AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Animal Genetics, Department of Animal Science and Animal Health, 
The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University, Grønnegårdsvej 3, 1870 C, 
Frederiksberg, Denmark. hfp@kvl.dk

Causes of death and age at death of 2928 dogs are reported from a questionnaire 
study among members of the Danish Kennel Club (DKC) in 1997. The dogs 
represented 20 breeds, 15 breed-groups and a group of mixed-breed dogs. The 
median age at death for all dogs in the study was 10.0 years. Mixed-breed dogs 
had a higher median age at death (11.0 years) than the entire population, but 
breeds like Shetland Sheepdog, Poodle and Dachshund exceeded this age (12 
years). The Bernese Mountaindog, the group of Molossian types and the 
Sighthounds had the shortest life span with a median age at death of 7.0 years. 
Old age was the most frequent reported cause of death (20.8%) followed by cancer 
(14.5%), behavioural problems (6.4%) accidents (6.1%), hip dysplasia (4.6%), 
heart diseases (4.6%) and spinal diseases (3.9%). Breed-specific proportional 
mortalities with 95% confidence limits are given for the six most prevalent 
specific causes of death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5877(03)00010-2
PMID: 12628771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Aging Male. 2002 Dec;5(4):223-32.

The pleiotropic expression of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase gene 
illustrates the complex relationships between genetic, biological and clinical 
covariates of male aging.

Brisson D(1), Houde G, St-Pierre J, Vohl MC, Mathieu J, Gaudet D.

Author information:
(1)Lipid Research Group and University of Montreal Community Genomic Medicine 
Center, Chicoutimi Hospital, Quebec, Canada.

Aging is a complex process modulated by multiple interactions between 
environmental and genetic factors. Myotonic dystrophy (DM1) is an autosomal 
dominant disorder caused by an unstable (CTG)n repeat expansion in the DM1 
protein kinase (DMPK) gene. The affected male patients' life expectancy at birth 
(53.2 years) is more than two decades below that observed in most occidental 
populations. The DMPK gene expression is pleiotropic and includes the premature 
expression of several age-related signs, symptoms and metabolic disturbances 
including hormonal dysfunctions, progressive decrease in muscular mass, 
presenile cataracts, alopecia, reduced alertness, insulin resistance, 
dyslipidemia, erectile dysfunction and hypogonadism. The aim of this study was 
to analyze the relationship between aging covariates and the severity of DM1 
expression in 136 DM1 male subjects. DM1 clinical expression was assessed on a 
validated neuromuscular disability rating scale and was correlated with plasma 
total testosterone (rs = -0.31, p < 0.001), luteinizing hormone (LH) (rs = 0.52, 
p < 0.001) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) (rs = 0.54, p < 0.001) levels. 
Following LH releasing hormone stimulation, FSH and LH concentrations increased 
as a function of DM1 severity (p < 0.05). Muscular disability in DM1 was also 
positively associated with fasting plasma insulin and triglyceride 
concentrations (p < 0.05). The association of plasma apolipoprotein B and 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels with DM1 was not linear across their 
distribution and tended to reflect cell membrane damage progression. These 
results suggest that DM1, a simple Mendelian trait, can represent a valuable 
model to illustrate the complex relationships between variables associated with 
male aging.

PMID: 12630069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 2002 Dec;96 Suppl 2:S3-13. doi: 
10.1179/00034980215002347.

Elimination of lymphatic filariasis: a public-health challenge.

Zagaria N(1), Savioli L.

Author information:
(1)Communicable Diseases Control, Prevention and Eradication, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. zagarian@who.int

DOI: 10.1179/00034980215002347
PMID: 12630389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Int J Gastrointest Cancer. 2002;32(1):35-41. doi: 10.1385/IJGC:32:1:35.

Pretreatment CA 19-9 level as a prognostic factor in patients with advanced 
pancreatic cancer treated with gemcitabine.

Saad ED(1), Machado MC, Wajsbrot D, Abramoff R, Hoff PM, Tabacof J, Katz A, 
Simon SD, Gansl RC.

Author information:
(1)Centro Paulista de Oncologia, São Paulo, Brazil. evesaad@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Serum levels of CA 19-9 correlate with survival among patients with 
pancreatic cancer treated with surgery or radiation therapy. In addition, CA 
19-9 responses have been shown to predict for a better prognosis among patients 
with advanced disease treated with chemotherapy. The present study evaluates the 
predictive role of CA 19-9 pretreatment levels and response among patients 
treated with gemcitabine.
METHODS: We retrospectively identified 28 patients with advanced pancreatic 
cancer and baseline elevations of CA 19-9 (> 37 U/mL) who were treated with 
single agent gemcitabine. CA 19-9 response was defined as a > or = 50% decline 
at any time after treatment. Survival was estimated with the Kaplan-Meier 
method, and curves were compared with the log-rank test.
RESULTS: Eleven patients (39%) had a CA 19-9 response. The median survival of 
responding patients was longer than that of non-responding patients (13.8 vs 8 
mo, p = .0272). When pretreatment CA 19-9 levels were analyzed, patients who had 
CA 19-9 below the median for the entire sample (1212 U/mL) lived significantly 
longer than patients with a CA 19-9 above the median (14.9 vs 7.4 mo, p = 
.0013). On multivariable analysis, pretreatment CA 19-9 level was an 
independent, and stronger predictor of survival (p = .0005) than CA 19-9 
response (p = .0497). Other variables were not associated with survival.
CONCLUSIONS: CA 19-9 may be a useful adjunct to response evaluation is this 
setting. In addition to CA 19-9 responses, prechemotherapy levels of this marker 
seem to have strong prognostic significance.

DOI: 10.1385/IJGC:32:1:35
PMID: 12630768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Euro Surveill. 2002 Oct;7(10):143-4.

The WHO European report confirms links between socioeconomic development and 
health.

[No authors listed]

Over 300 representatives, including 20 ministers of health, attended the 52nd 
session of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Committee for Europe, 
which was held from 16 to 19 September in Copenhagen, Denmark. On this occasion 
the European Health Report 2002 was released. This report confirms the strong 
links between socioeconomic development, health and equity in the WHO European 
Region which covers 51 WHO Member States with some 870 million people. While 
overall levels of health in the Region are among the highest in the world, the 
report describes widening gaps between and within countries 
(www.euro.who.int/europeanhealthreport).

PMID: 12631995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Pediatr Surg. 2003 Mar;38(3):315-8; discussion 315-8. doi: 
10.1053/jpsu.2003.50100.

Malignant retroperitoneal and abdominal germ cell tumors: an intergroup study.

Billmire D(1), Vinocur C, Rescorla F, Colombani P, Cushing B, Hawkins E, Davis 
M, London WB, Lauer S, Giller R; Children's Oncology Group.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Surgery, J.W. Riley Hospital for Children, Indianapolis, 
Indiana 46202, USA.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: This randomized study examined survival (S) and event-free 
survival (EFS) rates using high-or standard-dose cisplatin-based combination 
chemotherapy and surgical resection for this subset of germ cell tumors.
METHODS: Twenty-six of 317 patients enrolled on the POG 9049/COG 8882 intergroup 
study for malignant germ cell tumors had abdomen or retroperitoneum as the 
primary site. Twenty-five of 26 were eligible for inclusion (n = 25). Patients 
had biopsy or resection at diagnosis and randomization to chemotherapy including 
etoposide, bleomycin, and either standard-dose (PEB) or high-dose cisplatin 
(HDPEB). In patients with initial biopsy, delayed resection was planned.
RESULTS: Median age was 26 months. There were 14 girls and 11 boys. There were 3 
stage I to II, 5 stage III, and 17 stage IV patients. Surgical management 
included primary resection in 5, resection after chemotherapy in 13, and biopsy 
or partial resection in 7 patients. Overall 6-year EFS rate was 82.8% +/- 10.9%, 
and 6-year survival rate was 87.6% +/- 9.3%. By group, 6-year survival rate was 
90.0% +/- 11.6% for PEB and 85.7 +/- 14.5% for HDPEB. Deaths include one from 
sepsis, one from malignant tumor progression, and one from bulky disease caused 
by benign components despite response of the malignant elements to chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Malignant germ cell tumors arising in the abdomen and 
retroperitoneum have an excellent prognosis despite advanced stage in most 
children. Aggressive resection need not be undertaken at diagnosis, but a 
concerted attempt at complete surgical removal after chemotherapy is important 
to distinguish viable tumor from necrotic tumor or benign elements that will not 
benefit from further chemotherapy.

Copyright 2003, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2003.50100
PMID: 12632341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Pediatr Surg. 2003 Mar;38(3):347-53. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2003.50106.

Prognostic factors and surgical treatment guidelines for children with 
rhabdomyosarcoma of the perineum or anus: a report of Intergroup 
Rhabdomyosarcoma Studies I through IV, 1972 through 1997.

Blakely ML(1), Andrassy RJ, Raney RB, Anderson JR, Wiener ES, Rodeberg DA, 
Paidas CN, Lobe TE, Crist WM; Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Studies I through IV.

Author information:
(1)Soft-Tissue Sarcoma Committee of the Children's Oncology Group, Houston, 
Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) of the perineum or anus is a rare 
sarcoma of childhood with a poor prognosis. This study reviews the Intergroup 
Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group (IRSG) studies I through IV to identify 
determinants of patient outcome and to refine surgical treatment guidelines.
METHODS: From 1972 through 1997, 71 eligible patients were treated and studied. 
The median patient age was 6 years. The majority (64%) were at an advanced stage 
(clinical group III and IV) at initial presentation and 50% had positive 
regional lymph node (LN) involvement.
RESULTS: The 5-year failure-free survival rate (FFS) for all patients was 45% 
and the overall survival rate (OS) was 49%. Characteristics that were associated 
with significantly improved survival rate were primary tumor size less than 5 
cm, lower (less advanced) clinical group and stage, negative regional lymph node 
status, and age less than 10 years. When the extent of disease was controlled 
for in multivariate analysis, only age less than 10 predicted an improved 
outcome. The 5-year overall survival rate for patients less than 10 years of age 
was 71% versus 20% in older patients (P <.001). Histology (alveolar versus 
embryonal) and primary site (perineal versus anal) did not significantly affect 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the high incidence of regional LN involvement in these 
patients, a strategy of routine surgical evaluation of ilioinguinal lymph nodes 
in all patients with perineal or anal RMS is recommended.

Copyright 2003, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2003.50106
PMID: 12632347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Mech Ageing Dev. 2003 Feb;124(2):237-44. doi: 10.1016/s0047-6374(02)00186-0.

In vitro aging of macaque adherent cells: similar pattern of cellular aging 
between human and macaque.

Shimizu Y(1), Suzuki J, Terao K, Ishida T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Unit of Human Biology and Genetics, 
Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-0033, Japan.

To explore new models for human cellular aging as well as to evaluate aging of 
the macaques, profiles of cellular aging in macaques were studied. Adherent 
cells were obtained from five Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata), 14 long-tailed 
macaques (Macaca fascicularis), two bonnet monkeys (Macaca radiata) and a rhesus 
monkey (Macaca mulatta). A total of 35 cultures were performed and cell 
morphology, doubling time, telomere length and telomerase activity were studied. 
They were classified into three groups; group I: cell strains with a definite 
replicative life-span (-41 PDLs) (presence of M1), group II: cell strains with a 
limited extension of replicative life-span (79-106 PDLs) with p53 mutation(s) 
(presence of M2), and group III: a cell strain with an indefinite replicative 
life-span (>150 PDLs) with characteristics of transformation. Except for the 
last group, telomerase activity was not observed. Macaque cells demonstrated 
three chronological patterns comprising both human and rodent patterns, however, 
presence of the two limits of proliferation in vitro grants macaque cells to be 
more appropriate than rodents in both studying human aging and oncogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(02)00186-0
PMID: 12633944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 Mar;58(3):271-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/58.3.m271.

Medical staff's decision-making process in the nursing home.

Cohen-Mansfield J(1), Lipson S.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute on Aging of the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington, 
Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA. cohen-mansfield@hebrew-home.org

BACKGROUND: This paper describes the medical decision-making process at the time 
of status change events in the nursing home.
METHODS: Six male physicians and 3 female nurse practitioners completed 
questionnaires that described the medical decision-making process for 70 
residents of a large nonprofit nursing home.
RESULTS: Hospitalization was the most frequently cited treatment considered and 
chosen; family members were involved in 39% of decisions, and nurses were 
involved in 34%. The most important considerations in making a decision were 
reported to be the resident's quality of life, the relative effectiveness of the 
treatment options, and the family's wishes. The levels of importance ascribed to 
the considerations were related to the physician's identity, specific resident 
characteristics (such as estimated life expectancy), and communication between 
the physician and resident (such as sharing knowledge of family wishes).
CONCLUSIONS: The decision at the time of a status change event involves multiple 
conditions, multiple considerations, and multiple treatment options, and tends 
to result in either an active route, such as hospitalization, or a passive one, 
such as comfort care. The impact of the individual physician and the 
physician-resident relationship on this process deserves further investigation.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/58.3.m271
PMID: 12634294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2002 Sep 15;27(18):2072-9. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200209150-00020.

Pelvic or lumbar fixation for the surgical management of scoliosis in duchenne 
muscular dystrophy.

Sengupta DK(1), Mehdian SH, McConnell JR, Eisenstein SM, Webb JK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Spinal Studies and Surgery, Queen's Medical Centre, University 
Hospital, Nottingham, United Kingdom. dksg@hotmail.com

STUDY DESIGN: This retrospective study evaluates two groups of patients with 
scoliosis and Duchenne muscular dystrophy, treated with two different surgical 
stabilization methods.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether fixation to the sacropelvis is always necessary 
for adequate stabilization of scoliosis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Pelvic fixation is generally recommended for 
scoliosis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Recent studies describe a more 
selective approach toward lumbar or pelvic fixation. Pelvic fixation is reserved 
for larger curves and established pelvic tilt.
METHODS: Fifty cases of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, operated in two different 
centers and followed up for a minimum of 3 years, were reviewed. In the first 
group (Oswestry), 31 patients had fixation to the pelvis, using standard Luque 
instrumentation and pelvic fixation. The Galveston technique was used in 9 cases 
and L-rod configuration in 22 cases. In the second group (Nottingham), 19 cases 
had fixation to L5 using pedicle screws in the lumbar spine and sublaminar wires 
in the thoracic spine. These cases were operated on early, usually shortly after 
becoming wheelchair dependent.
RESULTS: In the pelvic fixation group, the mean age at the time of surgery was 
14 years, and forced vital capacity was 44%. The mean Cobb angle and pelvic 
obliquity were 48 degrees and 19.8 degrees at the time of surgery, 16.7 degrees 
and 7.2 degrees immediately after surgery, and 22 degrees and 11.6 degrees at 
the final follow-up (mean 4.6 years), respectively. The mean blood loss was 4.1 
L, and the average hospital stay was 17 days. There were five major 
complications, including a deep wound infection in one case, revision of 
instrumentation prominence at the proximal end in two cases, and loosening of 
pelvic fixation in two cases. In the lumbar fixation group, the mean age at the 
time of surgery was 11.7 years, and forced vital capacity was 58%. The mean Cobb 
angle and pelvic obliquity were 19.8 degrees and 9 degrees at the time of 
surgery, 3.2 degrees and 2.2 degrees immediately after surgery, and 5.2 degrees 
and 2.9 degrees at the final follow-up (mean 3.5 years), respectively. The mean 
estimated blood loss (3.3 L) and mean hospital stay (7.7 days) were much less 
compared with the pelvic fixation group. Pelvic obliquity was corrected and 
maintained below 10 degrees in all but two cases, who had an initial pelvic 
obliquity exceeding 20 degrees. One patient had instrumentation failure at the 
proximal end, and one had a deep wound infection.
CONCLUSION: Lumbar fixation to L5 is adequate if the surgery is performed early, 
soon after becoming wheelchair bound, and with smaller curves and minimal pelvic 
obliquity. Use of pedicle screws in lumbar spine provides a solid foundation to 
maintain the correction over the period of relatively short life expectancy of 
these children. Pelvic fixation may be necessary in older children, who have 
larger curves and established pelvic obliquity. In the presence of deteriorating 
lung function, this is associated with a greater morbidity and higher 
complication rate.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200209150-00020
PMID: 12634572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Ann Hematol. 2003 Mar;82(3):148-52. doi: 10.1007/s00277-002-0604-y. Epub
2003  Feb 22.

Chronic myeloproliferative disorders with thrombocythemia: a comparative study 
of two classification systems (PVSG, WHO) on 839 patients.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmannstrasse 9, 
50924 Cologne, Germany. j.thiele@uni-koeln.de

A multicenter observational study was performed on 839 adult patients with a 
chronic myeloproliferative disorder and a platelet count in excess of 600 x 
10(9)/l to compare the updated criteria of the Polycythemia Vera Study Group 
(PVSG) with the recently published WHO classification. Essential thrombocythemia 
(ET) was diagnosed in 483 patients according to the PVSG; however, when 
considering histopathology as a major diagnostic feature of the WHO criteria, 
(true) ET could be established in only 162 patients. The remaining cases were 
found to represent either initially prefibrotic (184 patients) or early fibrotic 
(137 patients) chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF). On the other hand, both 
classification systems enabled a clear-cut distinction of patients showing overt 
IMF and polycythemia vera. Follow-up examinations in 140 patients with ET 
according to the PVSG criteria included also sequential bone marrow biopsies 
(interval: 38+/-30 months). A transition into mild reticulin fibrosis occurred 
in only 2 of 49 patients with (true) ET in contrast to 45 of 91 patients with 
initial and early IMF where a progression into overt myelofibrosis was 
encountered. Survival patterns for ET displayed significant differences because 
according to the PVSG a 16.5% disease-specific loss of life expectancy was 
calculable compared to a value of only 8.9% when following the WHO criteria. 
Contrasting this finding, initial and early IMF mimicking ET was characteriZed 
by a reduction of life expectancy ranging between 21.6% and 32.3 %. In 
conclusion, a more accurate classification of ET is warranted by regarding the 
WHO criteria that include histopathology as a major feature for diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-002-0604-y
PMID: 12634946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2003 Feb;29(1):145-61, viii. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-857x(02)00099-6.

Rheumatic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Medina Rodríguez F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Hospital de Especialidades Centro Médico 
Nacional, Siglo XXI Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Universidad Nacional 
Autónoma de México, Facultad de Medicina, México City, Mexico. 
fmedina_99@yahoo.com

Rheumatic complaints are common in patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection. With the advent of the modern combined antiretroviral 
treatment, life-long control of HIV infection and normalization of life 
expectancy in HIV-positive patients have become realistic perspectives, but new 
rheumatic complications, such as osteoporosis, osteonecrosis, gout, and 
mycobacterial and mycotic osteoarticular infections may be more prevalent. 
Rheumatologists, internists, and general physicians need to be familiar with the 
presentation and treatment of these conditions in HIV-positive patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-857x(02)00099-6
PMID: 12635505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Risk Anal. 2003 Feb;23(1):19-34. doi: 10.1111/1539-6924.00287.

Assessing cancer risks from short-term exposures in children.

Ginsberg GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Connecticut Department of Public Health, Division of Environmental 
Epidemiology & Occupational Health, PO Box 340308, MS 11CHA, Hartford, CT 
06134-0308, USA. gary.ginsberg@po.state.ct.us

For the vast majority of chemicals that have cancer potency estimates on IRIS, 
the underlying database is deficient with respect to early-life exposures. This 
data gap has prevented derivation of cancer potency factors that are relevant to 
this time period, and so assessments may not fully address children's risks. 
This article provides a review of juvenile animal bioassay data in comparison to 
adult animal data for a broad array of carcinogens. This comparison indicates 
that short-term exposures in early life are likely to yield a greater tumor 
response than short-term exposures in adults, but similar tumor response when 
compared to long-term exposures in adults. This evidence is brought into a risk 
assessment context by proposing an approach that: (1) does not prorate 
children's exposures over the entire life span or mix them with exposures that 
occur at other ages; (2) applies the cancer slope factor from adult animal or 
human epidemiology studies to the children's exposure dose to calculate the 
cancer risk associated with the early-life period; and (3) adds the cancer risk 
for young children to that for older children/adults to yield a total lifetime 
cancer risk. The proposed approach allows for the unique exposure and 
pharmacokinetic factors associated with young children to be fully weighted in 
the cancer risk assessment. It is very similar to the approach currently used by 
U.S. EPA for vinyl chloride. The current analysis finds that the database of 
early life and adult cancer bioassays supports extension of this approach from 
vinyl chloride to other carcinogens of diverse mode of action. This approach 
should be enhanced by early-life data specific to the particular carcinogen 
under analysis whenever possible.

DOI: 10.1111/1539-6924.00287
PMID: 12635720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Scand J Rheumatol. 2003;32(1):46-51. doi: 10.1080/03009740310000409.

Hip disability and osteoarthritis outcome score. An extension of the Western 
Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index.

Klässbo M(1), Larsson E, Mannevik E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Säffle Hospital, Sweden. maria.klassbo@liv.se

To further develop the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis 
Index (WOMAC LK 3.0) for people with hip disability with or without hip 
osteoarthritis (OA), 52 subjects (median age 64 yrs, 35 women) answered a 
version of the Index with additional dimensions, twice, with a one-week 
interval. Reproducibility, percentage of zero scores (best possible scores), 
mean score of symptoms, and importance, were analyzed. This resulted in the Hip 
disability and osteoarthritis outcome score (HOOS LK 1.1), a 39-item 
questionnaire with five separate sub-scales. There were higher median scores 
(more symptoms) for three of HOOS sub-scales Pain, Activity limitations--sport 
and recreation, and Hip-related Quality of life compared to those in the WOMAC, 
improving the ability to assess change in patients over time. The HOOS appears 
to be an evaluative instrument for assessing important self-rated hip problems 
for people with hip disability with/without hip OA, but additional studies are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1080/03009740310000409
PMID: 12635946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Food Prot. 2003 Mar;66(3):418-25. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-66.3.418.

Antagonistic action of cells of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis against 
pathogenic and spoilage microorganisms in fresh meat systems.

Senne MM(1), Gilliland SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science and Food and Agricultural Products Research and 
Technology Center, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078, USA.

Cells of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis RM2-5 were added to various 
meat model systems that had been inoculated with Escherichia coli O157:H7 or 
Salmonella Typhimurium to determine whether these lactobacilli were antagonistic 
to the pathogens during storage at 5 degrees C. Experiments in which L. 
delbrueckii subsp. lactis RM2-5 was directly applied to the surfaces of 
beefsteaks resulted in significant (P < 0.05) reductions in the growth of 
psychrotrophs and coliforms plus a slight decrease in the numbers of E. coli 
O157:H7 over time relative to those for control samples to which no lactobacilli 
had been added. Experiments involving the direct application of L. delbrueckii 
subsp. lactis RM2-5 to the surfaces of freshly slaughtered beef and pork carcass 
samples inoculated with either E. coli O157:H7 or Salmonella Typhimurium showed 
significant (P < 0.05) declines in numbers of the pathogens as well as a 
reduction in the growth of psychrotrophs during storage at 5 degrees C for 6 
days. The results of the experiments suggest that lactobacillus cultures have 
potential for use in an intervention technology for the control of foodborne 
pathogens, especially on the surfaces of beef and pork carcasses. The results of 
this study also suggest that an extension of the shelf life of meat can result 
from the decreased growth of psychrotrophic spoilage organisms.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-66.3.418
PMID: 12636294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2003 Mar;85(3):441-7. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-200303000-00007.

Total hip arthroplasty in diastrophic dysplasia.

Helenius I(1), Remes V, Tallroth K, Peltonen J, Poussa M, Paavilainen T.

Author information:
(1)ORTON Orthopaedic Hospital, Invalid Foundation, Helisinki, Finland. 
ilkka.helenius@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Diastrophic dysplasia results in severe disproportionate growth 
failure, multiple joint deformities, and early osteoarthritis of the hips. 
Mortality is increased in early childhood, but thereafter life expectancy is 
normal. Because of severe flexion deformities, resting pain, and diminished 
movements of the hip joints, total hip arthroplasty is indicated at an early 
age. The purpose of our study was to evaluate prospectively the midterm results 
of total hip arthroplasty in a consecutive series of patients with diastrophic 
dysplasia.
METHODS: Between 1982 and 1996, forty-one total hip replacements were performed 
in twenty-four consecutive patients with diastrophic dysplasia (mean age, 
forty-one years) at our hospital. The patients were followed prospectively for a 
minimum of five years with clinical examination, determination of Harris hip 
scores, and radiographs. Twenty-two patients (thirty-eight hips) were examined 
clinically and radiographically at the time of follow-up, and the remaining two 
patients (three hips) were contacted only by telephone. The mean duration of 
follow-up was 7.8 years.
RESULTS: The mean Harris hip score increased from 44 points (range, 25 to 66 
points) before the operation to 70 points (range, 37 to 89 points) at the final 
follow-up examination (p < 0.001). Ten complications (24%) were recorded. Five 
(12%) of the forty-one hips required revision because of aseptic loosening of 
the acetabular component at a mean of 9.4 years after the primary operation. No 
revisions were due to aseptic failure of the femoral component.
CONCLUSIONS: Implant survival was good and the Harris hip scores increased 
significantly after total hip arthroplasty in patients with diastrophic 
dysplasia. However, shortening femoral osteotomy and transposition of the 
greater trochanter, adductor and flexor tenotomies, and modification of the 
femoral stem were frequently needed. Total hip arthroplasty is recommended for 
patients with diastrophic dysplasia and severe degeneration of the hip joints, 
even for those who are relatively young.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, Level IV (case series [no, or historical, 
control group]). See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of 
levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-200303000-00007
PMID: 12637429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Clin Oncol. 2003 Mar 15;21(6):1139-46. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2003.03.126.

Economic evaluation of breast cancer treatment: considering the value of patient 
choice.

Polsky D(1), Mandelblatt JS, Weeks JC, Venditti L, Hwang YT, Glick HA, Hadley J, 
Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6021, USA. 
polsky@mail.med.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: To use 5 years of primary data to compare the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of breast conservation and radiation versus mastectomy with 
the restriction of choice to a single therapy versus providing a choice of 
either therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We evaluated a random retrospective cohort of 2,517 
Medicare beneficiaries treated for newly diagnosed stage I or II breast cancer 
from 1992 through 1994. The outcome measures were quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and 5-year medical costs. Risk and propensity score adjustments were 
used in the analysis.
RESULTS: A breast conservation and radiation regimen has significantly higher 
costs than mastectomy in the first year after surgery; the adjusted 5-year costs 
are $14,054 (95% confidence interval, $9,791 to $18,312) greater than those of 
mastectomy. The adjusted incremental cost-effectiveness ratio comparing breast 
conservation and radiation to mastectomy was $219,594 per QALY for the 
comparison of the two strategies. If the possibility of patient choice from 
maintaining the availability of multiple treatments versus restricting choice to 
mastectomy alone provides a quality-of-life gain of 0.031 QALYs, then the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of this choice option is $80,440 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The current system of providing a choice between mastectomy and 
breast conservation surgery is economically attractive when the economic 
analysis includes the benefit of patient choice of treatment.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2003.03.126
PMID: 12637482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Stroke. 2003 Apr;34(4):1010-4. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000062888.90293.AA. Epub
 2003 Mar 13.

Secondary prevention of stroke in Italy: a cross-sectional survey in family 
practice.

Filippi A(1), Bignamini AA, Sessa E, Samani F, Mazzaglia G.

Author information:
(1)Italian College of General Practitioners, University of Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension control and antiplatelet or oral anticoagulant drugs 
are the basis for secondary prevention of cerebrovascular events. Family 
physicians (FPs) are usually involved in both aspects of prevention, but no 
research has been carried out in Italy to evaluate the behavior of FPs in this 
field of prevention.
METHODS: Data concerning 318 Italian FPs and 465,061 patients were extracted 
from the Health Search Database. Patients with coded diagnoses of stroke and 
transient ischemic attack (TIA) were selected. Demographic records and 
information regarding presence of concurrent disease and medical records were 
also obtained. Logistic regression analyses were carried out to assess whether 
conditions exist that make appropriate control of blood pressure (BP) and 
prescription of antiplatelet or anticoagulant drugs more likely.
RESULTS: We selected 2555 patients with diagnosis of stroke and 2755 with TIA. 
Among all of the subjects, 32.6% had no BP recorded. Among the remaining 
subjects, 58.7% reported uncontrolled BP. Isolated systolic hypertension has 
been shown in 68.8% of patients with uncontrolled BP. Antiplatelet and 
anticoagulant drugs were prescribed in 72% of these cases. Factors that made the 
prescription significantly more unlikely were diagnosis of TIA (odds ratio [OR], 
0.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.41 to 0.54), total invalidity (OR, 0.66; 
95% CI 0.56 to 0.78), and time from event of 5 years or more (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 
0.70 to 0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: Italian FPs could improve secondary prevention of cerebrovascular 
accidents. The primary target of intervention should be the control of systolic 
BP, and the group of patients with unacceptably high BP should be given 
priority. All of these patients should have been prescribed antiplatelet drugs 
or anticoagulant agents, except in cases of extremely short life expectancy or 
substantial contraindications.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000062888.90293.AA
PMID: 12637698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2003 Jan;57(4):624-35. doi: 10.1265/jjh.57.624.

[Low dose exposure to cadmium and its health effects. (4) Body burden, critical 
concentration and life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Koyama H(1), Satoh M, Tohyama C.

Author information:
(1)Gunma University School of Medicine 3-39-15 Showa, Maebashi 371-8514, Japan. 
hkoyama@health.gunma-u.ac.jp

As the last manuscript in our series of review articles on cadmium (Cd) and 
health effects, we reviewed research articles on epidemiologic and experimental 
studies on exposure levels of Cd in occupational and environmental settings in 
various countries, disposition and body burden of Cd, critical concentrations of 
Cd in the kidney of humans and animals with a focus on biomarkers for renal 
dysfunction, and life expectancy in Cd-polluted areas and reference areas. After 
this manuscript was compiled, cadmium levels in rice crops received significant 
attention, since the risk assessment of cadmium is now under review and 
discussion by the Joint Expert Committee of Food Additives and Contaminants 
organized by the Food Agricultural Organization and World Health Organization in 
2003. We hope that the information compiled in this review may provide 
directions for future studies on the health risk assessment of Cd.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.57.624
PMID: 12638167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Soc Hist Med. 2002 Aug;15(2):323-40. doi: 10.1093/shm/15.2.323.

Disease and diversity in history. (Reviews of: Cartwright, FF, Biddiss, M. 
Disease and history. Gloucestershire: Sutton Publishing Limited, 2000; Rotberg 
RI, ed. Health and disease in human history. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000; 
Cliff, A., Haggett, P., Smallman-Raynor, M. Deciphering global epidemics: 
analytical approaches to the disease records of world cities, 1888-1912. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998; Riley, JC. Rising life expectancy: 
a global history. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001; McMichael, T. 
Human frontiers, environments and disease: past patterns, uncertain futures. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001).

Jackson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical History, University of Exeter, UK. 
m.a.jackson@exeter.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1093/shm/15.2.323
