PMID: 12638561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Transplantation. 2003 Mar 15;75(5):727-30. doi: 
10.1097/01.TP.0000053403.49028.AA.

Life-threatening veno-occlusive disease after living-related liver 
transplantation.

Nakazawa Y(1), Chisuwa H, Mita A, Ikegami T, Hashikura Y, Terada M, Nakayama J, 
Kawasaki S.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Shinshu University School of Medicine, 3-1-1 
Asahi, Matsumoto 390-8621, Japan. yuichi@hsp.md.shinshu-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Transplantation. 2003 Sep 27;76(6):1007.

Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) can develop in association with the administration 
of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents and irradiation. In solid-organ transplant 
settings, azathioprine has been implicated as a predisposing factor. VOD with 
fatal outcome occurred in a post liver-transplant recipient who had never been 
exposed to any agents that have the potential to induce VOD. At onset, the 
disease manifested clinically as gross ascites and progressive jaundice and was 
observed after clinically diagnosed acute graft rejection. The disease was 
confirmed by histologic examinations. Histologic studies of biopsy samples from 
this patient revealed that most small hepatic veins less than 300 microm in 
diameter were affected, exhibiting concentric intimal thickening with sparse 
inflammatory cells. A few of the hepatic veins exhibited active endotheliitis 
with occasional extension of inflammation to neighboring centrilobular areas. 
Despite intensified immunosuppression, the observed fibrous obliterative changes 
were irreversible. Although the cause of VOD in this patient is tentative, the 
damage to the endothelium, associated with acute rejection, is likely to be 
attributable. VOD deserves recognition as one of the causes for liver 
dysfunction and persistent ascites after liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/01.TP.0000053403.49028.AA
PMID: 12640317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nat Genet. 2003 Apr;33(4):522-6. doi: 10.1038/ng1132. Epub 2003 Mar 17.

Sir3p phosphorylation by the Slt2p pathway effects redistribution of silencing 
function and shortened lifespan.

Ray A(1), Hector RE, Roy N, Song JH, Berkner KL, Runge KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, NC20, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Lerner 
Research Institute, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Erratum in
    Nat Genet. 2003 May;34(1):113.

An organism's lifespan is modulated by environmental conditions. When nutrients 
are abundant, the metabolism of many organisms shifts to growth or reproduction 
at the expense of longer lifespan, whereas a scarcity of nutrients reverses this 
shift. These correlations suggest that organisms respond to environmental 
changes by altering their metabolism to promote either reproduction and growth 
or long life. The only previously reported signaling mechanism involved in this 
response is the nutrient-responsive insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 
receptor pathway. Here we report another pathway that controls the length of 
yeast lifespan. Commitment to cell growth activates the Slt2p MAP kinase 
pathway, which phosphorylates the transcriptional silencing protein Sir3p, 
resulting in a shorter lifespan. Elimination of the Sir3p phosphorylation site 
at Ser275 extended lifespan by 38%. Lifespan extension occurs by a mechanism 
that is independent of suppressing rDNA recombination. Thus, Slt2p is an 
enzymatic regulator of silencing function that couples commitment to cell growth 
and shorter lifespan.

DOI: 10.1038/ng1132
PMID: 12640455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Bull World Health Organ. 2003;81(1):43-7. Epub 2003 Mar 11.

Healthy life expectancy in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China.

Law CK(1), Yip PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.

Sullivan's method and a regression model were used to calculate healthy life 
expectancy (HALE) for men and women in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
(Hong Kong SAR) of China. These methods need estimates of the prevalence and 
information on disability distributions of 109 diseases and HALE for 191 
countries by age, sex and region of the world from the WHO's health assessment 
of 2000. The population of Hong Kong SAR has one of the highest healthy life 
expectancies in the world. Sullivan's method gives higher estimates than the 
classic linear regression method. Although Sullivan's method accurately 
calculates the influence of disease prevalence within small areas and regions, 
the regression method can approximate HALE for all economies for which 
information on life expectancy is available. This paper identifies some problems 
of the two methods and discusses the accuracy of estimates of HALE that rely on 
data from the WHO assessment.

PMCID: PMC2572317
PMID: 12640475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2003 Feb 6;123(3):303.

[How much does the society want to pay?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Norheim OF(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutt for samfunnsmedisinske fag Universitetet i Bergen Ulriksdal 8c, 
5009 Bergen. ole.norheim@isf.uib.no

PMID: 12640893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Z Kardiol. 2002;91 Suppl 3:144-51. doi: 10.1007/s00392-002-1326-9.

The role of decision-analytic models in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment 
of coronary heart disease.

Siebert U(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
Ludwig-Maximilians University of Munich, Marchioninistr. 15 81377 Munich, 
Germany. sieb@lrz.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: The rapidly expanding number and scope of health technologies used 
in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of coronary heart disease present 
physicians and policy makers with complex decisions that must be made even under 
uncertainty about the risks and benefits of these procedures. A physician must 
determine which procedures offer the best trade-off between potential harm and 
benefit, and yield the maximum expected health benefit for the patient. In 
addition, the cost-effectiveness of alternative choices must be considered to 
optimize resource allocations from a societal perspective, further complicating 
the decision making process.
METHODS: Decision analysis is the application of explicit and quantitative 
methods to analyze decisions under conditions of uncertainty. Briefly, the basic 
concepts of decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis are described. 
Three examples of decision-analytic models for the prevention, diagnosis, and 
treatment of coronary heart disease are discussed to demonstrate situations in 
which decision analysis may be helpful, and to introduce different 
methodological approaches.
CONCLUSION: Decision analysis may aid clinical decisions affecting individual 
patients as well as inform clinical policy decisions and decisions regarding 
national health policy. However, this method is not a complete procedure for 
determining resource allocation decisions in health care, because it cannot 
incorporate all the values relevant to such decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-002-1326-9
PMID: 12641030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. BioDrugs. 2003;17(2):139-45. doi: 10.2165/00063030-200317020-00006.

Spotlight on etanercept in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and 
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

Culy CR(1), Keating GM.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, 41 Centorian Drive, Mairangi Bay, Auckland 10, 
New Zealand.

Etanercept (Enbrel) is a subcutaneously administered biological response 
modifier that binds and inactivates tumour necrosis factor-alpha, a 
proinflammatory cytokine. In patients with early active rheumatoid arthritis, 
etanercept 25mg twice weekly was associated with a more rapid improvement in 
disease activity and a significantly greater cumulative response than 
methotrexate over 12 months of treatment in a randomised, double-blind trial. In 
addition, etanercept recipients showed a slower rate of radiographic progression 
and a more rapid improvement in quality of life than methotrexate recipients. 
The efficacy of etanercept was maintained at 3 years' follow-up. Etanercept was 
also significantly better than placebo at reducing disease activity in patients 
who had an inadequate response to previous treatment with disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in several well controlled trials. At study end 
(after 3 or 6 months' treatment), the percentage of patients achieving an 
American College of Rheumatology 20% (ACR20) response with etanercept (25mg or 
16 mg/m(2) twice weekly) was 59-75% as monotherapy and 71% in combination with 
methotrexate; corresponding placebo response rates were 11-14% and 27%, 
respectively. Response has been maintained in patients who continued treatment 
for up to 5 years. In patients with psoriatic arthritis, etanercept 25mg twice 
weekly significantly reduced disease activity and improved skin lesions in two 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12- to 24-week trials. In the 24-week study, 
ACR20 response rates (50 vs 13%), psoriatic arthritis response rates (70 vs 23%) 
and the median improvement in skin lesions (33 vs 0%) were significantly greater 
in etanercept than in placebo recipients. In patients with polyarticular-course 
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, etanercept resulted in improvements in all 
measures of disease activity and was significantly more effective than placebo 
at reducing disease flare. Eighty percent of patients receiving etanercept 
achieved a > or =30% reduction in disease activity over 7 months of treatment, 
and this was maintained for up to 2 years in a trial extension. Etanercept was 
generally well tolerated in children and adults in clinical trials; the most 
commonly occurring adverse effects included injection site reactions, infection, 
headache, rhinitis and dizziness. In conclusion, etanercept has emerged as an 
important new treatment option in inflammatory arthritis. Etanercept provides 
rapid and sustained improvements in disease activity in patients with early and 
DMARD-refractory rheumatoid arthritis and has been shown to inhibit radiographic 
progression in those with early disease. Well controlled studies have also 
demonstrated the efficacy of etanercept in patients with psoriatic arthritis or 
polyarticular-course juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-200317020-00006
PMID: 12641492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2003 Mar 15;17(6):785-92. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01526.x.

Low-dose or standard-dose proton pump inhibitors for maintenance therapy of 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

You JH(1), Lee AC, Wong SC, Chan FK.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China. joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

BACKGROUND: Studies on the use of low-dose proton pump inhibitor for the 
maintenance therapy of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease have shown that it 
might be comparable with standard-dose proton pump inhibitor treatment and 
superior to standard-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist therapy.
AIM: To compare the impact of standard-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist, 
low-dose proton pump inhibitor and standard-dose proton pump inhibitor treatment 
for the maintenance therapy of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease on symptom 
control and health care resource utilization from the perspective of a public 
health organization in Hong Kong.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed to simulate, over 12 months, the economic 
and clinical outcomes of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease patients treated with 
standard-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist, low-dose proton pump inhibitor 
and standard-dose proton pump inhibitor. The transition probabilities were 
derived from the literature. Resource utilization was retrieved from a group of 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease patients in Hong Kong. Sensitivity analysis 
was conducted to examine the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: The standard-dose proton pump inhibitor strategy was associated with 
the highest numbers of symptom-free patient-years (0.954 years) and 
quality-adjusted life-years gained (0.999 years), followed by low-dose proton 
pump inhibitor and standard-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist. The direct 
medical cost per patient in the standard-dose proton pump inhibitor group (904 
US dollars) was lower than those of the low-dose proton pump inhibitor and 
standard-dose histamine-2 receptor antagonist groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The standard-dose proton pump inhibitor strategy appears to be the 
most effective and least costly for the maintenance management of patients with 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease in Hong Kong.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01526.x
PMID: 12641500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Lancet. 2003 Mar 8;361(9360):841. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12731-6.

HIV/AIDS lowers UN's global population estimates.

Schlagenhauf P, Ashraf H.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12731-6
PMID: 12642058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Blood Rev. 2003 Jun;17(2):99-109. doi: 10.1016/s0268-960x(02)00074-7.

The role of hydroxyurea in the management of sickle cell disease.

Davies SC(1), Gilmore A.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College Faculty of Medicine at Central Middlesex Hospital, Acton 
Lane, London NW10 7NS, UK. sally.davies@doh.gsi.gov.uk

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is one of the most common genetic diseases with some 
250,000 new births each year. Most patients suffer intermittent pain crises and 
life-threatening events while life expectancy is considerably reduced. Until the 
last decade management was purely preventative or supportive aimed at symptom 
control. Apart from stem cell transplant, there is no cure but the oral 
chemotherapeutic drug hydroxyurea (HU) has now established a role in 
ameliorating the disease and improving life expectancy for most patients. There 
are side effects and risks of HU treatment in SCD but for moderate and severely 
affected patients, the benefits can be significant.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-960x(02)00074-7
PMID: 12642122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Soz Praventivmed. 2002;47(6):399-407. doi: 10.1007/s000380200007.

[Mortality of 1880-1980 generations in Switzerland: a rereading of evolution of 
mortality based on longitudinal data].

[Article in French]

Wanner P(1).

Author information:
(1)Philippe.Wanner@unine.ch

OBJECTIVES: Seek to explain the declining mortality rates observed in 
Switzerland using a different approach from conventional period analyses.
METHODS: Analysis of the mortality rates for cohorts born between 1880 and 1980 
in Switzerland.
RESULTS: While the mortality transition was a constant feature of the 20th 
century, mortality receded most sharply among the 1900 to 1940 birth cohorts. 
Life expectancy gains were much lower for the pre-1900 cohorts, while early 
trends for the post-1940 cohorts point to a slowdown in the rate of mortality 
decline. These findings may be connected with the social and health conditions 
in which the different cohorts lived.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to the cross-sectional analysis, the longitudinal 
approach shows that the decline in mortality suddenly stops with the 1940 
cohort.

DOI: 10.1007/s000380200007
PMID: 12643000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Cancer Invest. 2003;21(1):14-20. doi: 10.1081/cnv-120016399.

Prognostic factor analysis in advanced gastric cancer patients treated with 
hydroxyurea, leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil, and cisplatin (HLFP regimen).

Louvet C(1), Carrat F, Mal F, Mabro M, Beerblock K, Vaillant JC, Cady J, André 
T, Gamelin E, de Gramont A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne-Oncologie, Hôpital St-Antoine, 184 rue du fbg 
St-Antonie, 75012, Paris, France. christophe.louvet@sat.ap-hop-paris.fr

This study was performed to determine the prognostic factors of 102 
nonresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer patients 
prospectively treated with a multimodulation of 5-fluorouracil (5FU), 
hydroxyurea, leucovorin, and cisplatin. Response rate in 85 patients with 
measurable disease was 62.4% (95% confidence interval 51.9% to 72.9%). A weight 
increase (5% or more) was observed in 47% of patients, performance status 
improved in 70.6%, and symptoms disappeared in 69%. Median times for 
progression-free survival and overall survival were eight and 11 months, 
respectively. Liver metastases, more than two involved sites, and increased 
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were found to be univariate adverse prognostic 
factors for survival. In a multivariate analysis, only the presence of liver 
metastasis was found to be an independent prognostic factor. Response rate and 
survival in patients with gastric linitis or diffuse forms were in the same 
range as in patients with intestinal forms of gastric adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-120016399
PMID: 12643005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Cancer Invest. 2003;21(1):41-6. doi: 10.1081/cnv-120016402.

A phase II study of 13-cis retinoic acid plus interferon alpha-2a in advanced 
stage penile carcinoma: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group study (E3893).

Skeel RT(1), Huang J, Manola J, Wilding G, Dreicer R, Walker P, Muggia F, 
Crawford ED, Dutcher JP, Loehrer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Ohio, Toledo, Ohio, USA. rskeel@mco.edu

PURPOSE: Combined biological therapy with 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cRA) and 
interferon alpha-2a (IFN alpha-2a) was reported to be highly effective in 
squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix and skin. Squamous cell carcinoma of the 
penis is rare in the United States, accounting for less than 1/2% of all male 
malignancies. Because of the association of infection with human papillomavirus 
with both carcinomas of the cervix and penis and their shared squamous cell 
histology, we carried out a phase II study of 13-cRA and IFN alpha-2a in 
carcinoma of the penis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighteen ambulatory patients with surgically 
unresectable, recurrent, and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the penis 
were treated with IFN alpha-2a, 3MU/day administered subcutaneously and 13-cRA, 
1 mg/kg orally daily for at least eight weeks, unless intolerable toxicity 
occurred.
RESULTS: One patient was ineligible; one patient withdrew prior to treatment. 
Among the 16 eligible, treated patients, there was one complete response. 
Fourteen patients had progressive disease as their only treatment effect. Two 
patients were unevaluable for tumor response because they had no follow-up tumor 
measurements. No unexpected treatment-related toxicities were found on study. 
The only common form of grade 3 toxicity was hypertriglyceridemia found in eight 
of the 17 patients (47%). No toxicities above grade 3 were observed.
CONCLUSION: In contrast to its benefit in squamous cell carcinomas of the cervix 
and skin, the combination of 13-cRA and IFN alpha-2a has low efficacy in 
advanced carcinoma of the penis.

DOI: 10.1081/cnv-120016402
PMID: 12643008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Popul Trends. 2002 Autumn;(109):15-26.

Variant population projections for the United Kingdom and its constituent 
countries.

Shaw C.

Interest has been growing steadily in understanding the impact of the inherent 
uncertainty in the national population projections. As a result, the Government 
Acturay's Department has recently produced the most extensive set of official 
variant projections ever published in the United Kingdom. These include 
'standard' variants based on alternative high and low assumptions for future 
fertility, life expectancy and net migration and also a number of 'special case 
scenarios.' All of these variants have been produced at both UK and individual 
country level. This article describes the full range of variant projections 
available from the 2000-based national projections and summaries some of the key 
results for both the UK and the individual countries.

PMID: 12643046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Urol Oncol. 2002 Sep-Oct;7(5):175-9. doi: 10.1016/s1078-1439(02)00183-7.

Expectant management with selective delayed intervention for favorable risk 
prostate cancer.

Klotz L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Division of Urology, Sunnybrook & Women's College 
Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue MG 408, Toronto, Ontario M4N 3M5, 
Canada. laurence.klotz@swchsc.on.ca

Management options for favorable risk prostate cancer are diverse, varying from 
a conservative approach (expectant management) to definitive treatment (radical 
prostatectomy or radiotherapy.) Several studies have suggested that expectant 
management provides similar 10-year survival rates and quality-adjusted life 
years compared with radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy. Expectant management 
alone clearly deprives some patients with potentially curable life-threatening 
disease of the opportunity for curative therapy. However, every series of 
conservative management contains a substantial subset of long-term survivors, 
particularly in the group with favorable clinical parameters. We have conducted 
a clinical study to evaluate a novel approach in which the choice between a 
definitive therapy and conservative policy is determined by the rate of PSA 
increase or the development of early, rapid clinical and/or histologic 
progression. This strategy, which has never been previously evaluated, offers 
the powerful attraction of individualizing therapy according to the biological 
behavior of the cancer. This would mean that patients with slowly growing 
malignancy would be spared the side effects of radical treatment, while those 
with more rapidly progressive cancer would still benefit from curative therapy. 
Doubling time varied widely. In this series of 200 patients, neither grade, 
stage, nor baseline PSA predicted the PSA doubling time. Thirty-three percent of 
patients had a PSA doubling time (T(D)) > 10 years. Doubling time appears to be 
a useful tool to guide treatment intervention for patients managed initially 
with expectant management. A doubling time of less than 2 years appears to 
identify patients at high risk for local progression in spite of otherwise 
favorable prognostic factors. Fifteen to 20% of patients will fall into this 
category. The remainder have a high chance of remaining free of recurrence and 
progression for many years. Watchful waiting is clearly appropriate for patients 
who are elderly, have significant co-morbidity, and have favorable clinical 
parameters. The use of co-morbidity indices like the Index of Co-existent 
Disease (ICED) facilitate the identification of patients whose life-expectancy 
is diminished relative to the natural history of their prostate cancer. The 
likelihood of a prostate cancer death in these patients is low. Furthermore, 
many healthy patients fall into a grey zone where the benefits of treatment are 
unclear. In these patients, a policy of close monitoring with selective 
intervention for the 15-20% who progress rapidly is appealing. This approach is 
currently the focus of several clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-1439(02)00183-7
PMID: 12644212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Health Policy. 2003 Apr;64(1):89-97. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(02)00143-4.

Cost-effectiveness of glycemic control and ophthalmological care in diabetic 
retinopathy.

Polak BC(1), Crijns H, Casparie AF, Niessen LW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, VU University Medical Centre, P.O. Box 7057, 
1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands. bcp.polak@vumc.nl

AIMS: Glycemic control and ophthalmological care are known to significantly 
diminish the risk of visual impairment and blindness by diabetic retinopathy 
(DRP). The (cost-)effectiveness of both strategies was studied to highlight 
their benefits for patients and care providers.
METHODS: A computer analysis was developed, following the progression of DRP and 
the effectiveness of metabolic control and ophthalmological care continuously 
and individually in cohorts of type I and type II DM patients with divergent 
degrees of compliance. Costs relate to present medical charges in the 
Netherlands.
RESULTS: Intensive glycemic control shortens the duration of blindness in a type 
I DM patient by 0.76 years, intensive ophthalmological care by 0.53 years. One 
year sight gain may cost 1126 euros by providing ophthalmological care and 50479 
euros by glycemic control. The duration of blindness drops in a type II DM 
patient by 0.48 and 0.13 years, respectively, whereas the effectiveness 
decreases as the age of onset of DM rises.
CONCLUSIONS: The vast majority of diabetic patients benefits from both intensive 
glycemic control and intensive ophthalmological care, but these cost-effective 
interventions which are not only complementary, but also substitute each other, 
require lasting, full compliance by all parties concerned.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(02)00143-4
PMID: 12644331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Rev Stomatol Chir Maxillofac. 2003 Feb;104(1):19-24.

[Reconstruction of the mobile tongue malignant tumor excision: quality-of-life 
assessment in 19 patients].

[Article in French]

Thoné M(1), Karengera D, Siciliano S, Reychler H.

Author information:
(1)Service de Stomatologie et de Chirurgie Maxillo-Faciale (Pr H. Reychler), 
Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, Université Catholique de Louvain, 15 avenue 
Hippocrate, B-1200 Bruxelles, Belgique. michel.thone@stom.ucl.ac.be

INTRODUCTION: Tumor tongue excision leads to anatomical and functional defects 
(chewing, swallowing, oral and prosthetic hygiene). The extension of the 
resection depends on tumor size and surgical radicality.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: In our department, 72 cases of lingual tumor were treated 
between may 1987 and January 1997. 73% of these cases were infiltrating squamous 
cell carcinomas. 71% were male. Most of the tumors were located at the ventral 
(45%) and lateral side (36%). 25% of the tumors crossed the midline. Staging was 
most often pT(2) (46%) and pN(0) (62%). Reconstruction with radial free flap 
occurred in 37%, with pedicled pectoralis major muscle flap in 13% and with 
pedicled latissimus dorsi muscle flap in 25% of cases. 51% of the patients were 
irradiated. All the patients were asked about their quality of live by an 11 
questions questionnaire. The questions concerned the different oral and lingual 
functions and the social, familial, affective and professional life.
RESULTS: 19 patients (that means 26%) answered the questionnaire. 9 of them were 
reconstructed with a flap (6 free radial flaps, 2 pedicled pectoralis major 
flaps, 1 pedicled latissimus dorsi flap) and were irradiated. In the 10 other 
patients wounds were closed by simple sutures of the margins. 1 of these 10 
patients was irradiated. There was no correlation between scores of the 
questions and neither pT nor age of patients. We observed a parallelism between 
scores of the questions about speech and swallowing. Scores of the questions 
about swallowing were higher when a flap was used for reconstruction, whatever 
was the type of flap.
DISCUSSION: A questionnaire was drawn up from the UW QOL questionnaire. It was a 
simplified questionnaire with reduced number of questions and simple words. 
Lesser tongue immobility leads to a better swallowing. Swallowing and speech 
were worst when tongue resection was large. In this quality of life study, there 
was a few number of patients that answered the questionnaire so that it is 
impossible to make a difference between the different flaps.

PMID: 12644786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Formos Med Assoc. 2002 Sep;101(9):632-41.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of interferon-alpha therapy in the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis B in Taiwan.

Pwu RF(1), Chan KA.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although interferon-alpha has been approved for chronic 
hepatitis B treatment in Taiwan, the high price necessitates study of its 
cost-effectiveness to define its role from a burden of disease perspective.
METHOD: A stimulation model was constructed to project the long-term effects of 
interferon treatment or standard care for a hypothetical group of 35-year-old 
chronic hepatitis B patients in Taiwan. Data on interferon treatment efficacy, 
disease progression, vital statistics, medical expenditure for various liver 
disease states, and quality-of-life measures based on Taiwan data were collected 
and used in the model.
RESULTS: The model indicated that a 35-year-old chronic hepatitis B patient 
treated with interferon in Taiwan would have a life expectancy of 29.08 years, 
versus 28.67 years for the same patient who did not receive interferon. 
Corresponding to this gain in life expectancy of 0.41 years (or 0.18 
quality-adjusted life-years, QALYs), the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was 492.000 New Taiwan dollars (NT$; 14,200 US$ at 34.7 NT$/US$) per QALY 
with an annual 3% discount rate. Monte Carlo simulation taking into account the 
range of plausible values for all model parameters indicated that 95% of the 
ICERs were in the range of 65,000 NT$ (1.900 US$)/QALY to 683,000 NT$ (19,700 
US$)/QALY, and 90% of the ICERs were below 413,000 NT$ (11,900 US$)/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Interferon has a favorable cost-effectiveness profile in the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Taiwan. However, the study results cannot be 
interpreted in isolation and need to be compared with the cost-effectiveness 
profiles of treatment regimens for other major chronic diseases in Taiwan.

PMID: 12645191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Acta Med Port. 2002 Sep-Oct;15(5):351-4.

[Multiple organ resections in surgery of the colon and rectum].

[Article in Portuguese]

Fradique C(1), Azevedo V, Vasconcelos V, Pupo A, Quaresma L, Carreira N, Vicente 
P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirurgia, Hospital de S. José, Lisboa.

Colorectal cancer patients with regional invasion or metastatic disease present 
low life expectancy. Radical surgical treatment is the only potentially curative 
procedure, with significant good results being reported. Thirty two patients 
with either regional invasion or metastatic disease were submitted to surgery 
with good survival rate.

PMID: 12645219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2003 Jan 15;140(2):107-12. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-4608(02)00659-3.

Molecular cytogenetic parameters in Ewing sarcoma.

Amiel A(1), Ohali A, Fejgin M, Sardos-Albertini F, Bouaron N, Cohen IJ, Yaniv I, 
Zaizov R, Avigad S.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Institute, Sapir Medical Center, Kfar-Saba, Israel. 
amielaliza@clalit.org.il

To evaluate possible genomic instability and possible random aneuploidy, we 
applied comparative genomic hybridization and fluorescence in situ techniques, 
and evaluated telomerase activity in 16 cases of Ewing sarcoma (EWS) and 
compared the results to 7 controls. Common secondary aberrations (gains of 
chromosomes 8 and 12) were found in the study group. There was a direct 
correlation between the detection of random aneuploidy and development of tumor 
relapse (P = 0.0047). Other detectable abnormal parameters (secondary) and high 
telomerase activity were also more common among the cases with relapse but did 
not reach a statistical significance (probably because of the small sample 
size). In EWS, the detection of random aneuploidy seems to be a sensitive 
parameter in the prediction of tumor relapse.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-4608(02)00659-3
PMID: 12645647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2003 Feb 14;52(6):101-4, 106.

Trends in aging--United States and worldwide.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

The median age of the world's population is increasing because of a decline in 
fertility and a 20-year increase in the average life span during the second half 
of the 20th century. These factors, combined with elevated fertility in many 
countries during the 2 decades after World War II (i.e., the "Baby Boom"), will 
result in increased numbers of persons aged > or = 65 years during 2010-2030. 
Worldwide, the average life span is expected to extend another 10 years by 2050. 
The growing number of older adults increases demands on the public health system 
and on medical and social services. Chronic diseases, which affect older adults 
disproportionately, contribute to disability, diminish quality of life, and 
increased health- and long-term-care costs. Increased life expectancy reflects, 
in part, the success of public health interventions, but public health programs 
must now respond to the challenges created by this achievement, including the 
growing burden of chronic illnesses, injuries, and disabilities and increasing 
concerns about future caregiving and healthcare costs. This report presents data 
from the U.S. Bureau of the Census, the World Health Organization, and the 
United Nations on U.S. and global trends in aging, including demographic and 
epidemiologic transitions, increasing medical and social costs related to aging, 
and the implications for public health.

PMID: 12645839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2003 Mar;58(2):P80-7. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/58.2.p80.

Do age differences in close and problematic family ties reflect the pool of 
available relatives?

Fingerman KL(1), Birditt KS.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Center, Pennsylvania State University, Pennsylvania, USA. 
karenf@purdue.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2003 Mar;58(2):P69.

Older adults consistently report having fewer close and fewer problematic social 
ties than do younger adults. Yet, prior studies have not explicitly examined 
associations between the availability of living relatives and the nature of 
family ties in later life. One hundred sixty-four individuals ages 13 to 99 
described their networks of close and problematic social ties. Then they 
provided information about specific living relatives (e.g., spouse, mother, 
father, sons, daughters, siblings, grandparents, and grandchildren). Older 
individuals reported more living relatives than did adolescents or young adults. 
Although individuals of all ages tended to name the majority of living relatives 
as close social contacts, most adults did not name all available relatives as 
close contacts. Age differences emerged with regard to naming relatives as 
problematic social ties. Older adults were less likely to indicate that their 
relatives caused problems. Findings are discussed in terms of an extension of 
investment theory, the availability hypothesis, which suggests that individuals 
with few living relatives are likely to view more of these relatives as close 
ties and fewer of these relatives as problematic.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/58.2.p80
PMID: 12646591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Harefuah. 2003 Jan;142(1):70-3, 76.

[Human transmissible spongiform encephalopathies].

[Article in Hebrew]

Leibovitz I(1), Zamir D, Polychuck I, Kahana E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Barzilai Medical Center, Ashkelon, Ben Gurion 
University of the Negev.

A new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was discovered in 1996. This new 
variant was found to be related to encephalopathy. There are 5 known human 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, all created by prions. The prion, a 
pure protein, smaller than a virus is derived from a normal glycoprotein of 
human cells wall. The function of this protein is unknown but supposed to be 
connected with copper incorporation into superoxide dismutase. Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease is an early dementive disease with loss of neurons, accumulation of 
amyloid and spongiform degeneration of the brain. We discuss the epidemiology, 
diagnosis and therapy of Creutzfeldt-Jakob and its variant. The increased life 
expectancy will certainly cause these diseases to be more common, thereby having 
a definite affect on the economy in both developing and developed countries. 
Future therapy will concentrate on either preventing the creation of pathologic 
prions or extracting intracellular prions.

PMID: 12647494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Manag Care Interface. 2003;Suppl B:14-5.

Effectiveness measures of major depressive disorder in pharmacoeconomic 
evaluations.

Casciano R(1).

Author information:
(1)Analytica Group, Ltd., New York City, USA.

PMID: 12647608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Eur J Cancer. 2002 Dec;38 Suppl 8:S19-24. doi:
10.1016/s0959-8049(02)80018-1.

Phase II trial of ZD0473 as second-line therapy in mesothelioma.

Giaccone G(1), O'Brien ME, Byrne MJ, Bard M, Kaukel E, Smit B.

Author information:
(1)Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. g.giaccone@vumc.nl

A phase II, open-label, non-comparative, multicentre trial of the platinum 
analogue ZD0473 as second-line therapy for pleural mesothelioma has been 
completed. The objectives were to evaluate the activity and tolerability of 
ZD0473 in patients with relapsed or progressive disease who had received one 
prior chemotherapy regimen. Forty-seven patients were recruited onto the trial, 
all aged > 18 years with a life-expectancy > 12 weeks, and World Health 
Organization (WHO) performance status < or = 2. A starting dose of 120 mg/m2 was 
administered to 14 patients, six of whom subsequently had their dose escalated 
to 150 mg/m2. Thirty-three patients received a starting dose of 150 mg/m2. In 
total, 147 treatment cycles were administered (median number of cycles 3 [range 
1-6]). The main toxicity of ZD0473 was haematological (thrombocytopenia) and the 
most common non-haematological adverse event was nausea. There was no clinically 
significant nephro-, neuro-, or oto-toxicity. Of the 43 patients evaluable for 
response, 12% had a minor response (defined by a reduction in lesion size > or = 
10% but < 50%), 44% had stable disease, 40% had disease progression, and two 
patients died before an objective response could be assigned. Median time to 
progression and death in evaluable patients was 77 days (95% confidence interval 
[CI]: 44, 105 days) and 203 days (95% CI: 165, 277 days), respectively. In 
conclusion, although ZD0473 demonstrated a manageable tolerability profile, no 
complete or partial responses were seen in second-line treatment of 
mesothelioma. This trial also demonstrates that clinical trials in second-line 
mesothelioma patients are feasible.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(02)80018-1
PMID: 12647701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Curr Opin Cell Biol. 2003 Apr;15(2):241-6. doi:
10.1016/s0955-0674(03)00006-1.

Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, a metabolic regulator of transcription, 
longevity and disease.

Lin SJ(1), Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 
Massachusetts Avenue, MA 02139, USA

Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) is a ubiquitous biological molecule that 
participates in many metabolic reactions. Recent studies show that NAD also 
plays important roles in transcriptional regulation, longevity, 
calorie-restriction-mediated life-span extension and age-associated diseases. It 
has been shown that NAD affects longevity and transcriptional silencing through 
the regulation of the Sir2p family, which are NAD-dependent deacetylases. Many 
human diseases are associated with changes in NAD level and/or the NAD : NADH 
ratio, raising the possibility that the Sir2p family might play a role in these 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0955-0674(03)00006-1
PMID: 12648681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Am Coll Surg. 2003 Mar;196(3):379-84. doi: 10.1016/S1072-7515(02)01754-4.

A comparison of diet and exercise therapy versus laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric 
bypass surgery for morbid obesity: a decision analysis model.

Patterson EJ(1), Urbach DR, Swanström LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Minimally Invasive Surgery, Legacy Health System, Portland, OR, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: In the absence of randomized controlled trials that directly compare 
medical versus surgical treatment of morbid obesity, decision analysis is a 
useful tool to help determine the optimal treatment strategy. Using decision 
analysis we simulated a trial comparing diet and exercise therapy to 
laparoscopic gastric bypass surgery to determine which approach resulted in 
longer life expectancy.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov decision analysis model was constructed to evaluate 
survival after laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery compared with a 
diet and exercise program for a 45-year-old woman with a body mass index (BMI) 
of 40 kg/m(2). Baseline mortality data were derived from published tables of 
vital statistics, and the relative risks of death associated with obesity 
(relative to normal weight) were taken from epidemiologic studies. We assumed 
that successful surgery resulted in a reduction of BMI to 30 kg/m(2). The 
baseline assumptions were: an operative mortality of 0.4%; a probability of 
weight loss after surgery of 80%; a rate of weight loss on a diet and exercise 
program, 20% at two years; a rate of regain of lost weight, 95% at two years; a 
relative risk of death for a BMI of 40 kg/m(2), 2.70; and a relative risk of 
death for a BMI of 30 kg/m(2), 1.51.
RESULTS: The undiscounted life expectancy after surgery was 69.7 years compared 
with 67.3 years for a diet and exercise program (an absolute increase in life 
expectancy of 2.4 years, a relative increase in life expectancy of 10.8%). 
Sensitivity analyses assumed discounting at 5%/y, and showed that surgery was 
associated with a longer expectation of life when the risk of operative 
mortality was less than 10%, and when the probability of weight loss after 
surgery was greater than 4%.
CONCLUSIONS: In a decision analysis model, laparoscopic gastric bypass surgery 
for morbid obesity was associated with a substantially longer survival than diet 
and exercise therapy.

Copyright 2003 by the American College of Surgeons

DOI: 10.1016/S1072-7515(02)01754-4
PMID: 12648689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Am Coll Surg. 2003 Mar;196(3):410-7. doi: 10.1016/S1072-7515(02)01753-2.

Effects of hospital volume on life expectancy after selected cancer operations 
in older adults: a decision analysis.

Finlayson EV(1), Birkmeyer JD.

Author information:
(1)VA Outcomes GrouP, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River 
Junction, VT, USA.

BACKGROUND: In addition to lower operative mortality, patients undergoing 
selected cancer operations at high volume centers have improved longterm 
survival. We sought to determine the overall effect of hospital volume on life 
expectancy after cancer surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a Markov decision analysis model to estimate life 
expectancy for patients undergoing resection for pancreatic, lung, or colon 
cancer. Model inputs included probabilities of operative mortality and longterm 
survival. For input data, we examined operative mortality (in-hospital or within 
30 days) stratified by volume in over 400,000 patients undergoing resection for 
these three cancers using the national Medicare database (1994-1999). Risks of 
late mortality were abstracted from published studies (MEDLINE, 1966 to present) 
to model the effect of hospital volume on longterm survival. In analysis, we 
first calculated life expectancy for patients undergoing surgery at very low, 
low, medium, high, and very high volume hospitals. We then explored the effects 
of various regionalization strategies.
RESULTS: Life expectancy increased steadily with hospital volume for all three 
cancers. Life expectancy after pancreatic cancer resection increased linearly 
with hospital volume: from 1.9 years at very low volume centers to 3.6 years at 
very high volume centers. For lung cancer, life expectancy ranged from 5.4 to 
6.6 years. Increases in life expectancy for colon cancer were not as dramatic: 
from 6.8 at very low volume hospitals to 7.4 years at very high volume 
hospitals. Differences in life expectancy across volume strata were largely 
attributable to differences in longterm survival, not operative mortality. From 
a policy perspective, regionalizing surgery for colon cancer would produce the 
greatest overall life-expectancy gains, but it would require moving most 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients aged 65 and older with pancreatic, lung, and colon cancer 
have substantially greater life expectancy after cancer resection at higher 
volume hospitals. Further work is needed to understand the mechanisms underlying 
differences in performance across hospitals in cancer care.

Copyright 2003 by the American College of Surgeons

DOI: 10.1016/S1072-7515(02)01753-2
PMID: 12648693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Cancer Radiother. 2003 Feb;7(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00284-6.

[Randomised phase III trial of fotemustine versus fotemustine plus whole brain 
irradiation in cerebral metastases of melanoma].

[Article in French]

Mornex F(1), Thomas L, Mohr P, Hauschild A, Delaunay MM, Lesimple T, Tilgen W, 
Nguyen BB, Guillot B, Ulrich J, Bourdin S, Mousseau M, Cupissol D, Bonneterre J, 
de Gislain C, Bensadoun JR, Clavel M.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier Lyon-Sud, service de radiothérapie-oncologie, EA 643, 
69495 cedex, Pierre-Bénite, France. mornex@radiotherapie.univ-lyon.fr

PURPOSE: The main objective of this prospective multicenter randomised phase III 
study was to compare a combined regimen of fotemustine plus whole brain 
irradiation versus fotemustine alone in terms of cerebral response and time to 
cerebral progression in patients with melanoma brain metastases.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-six patients (instead of the 106 planned patients; 
study was stopped after the interim analysis) were randomised receiving either 
fotemustine (arm A, n = 39) or fotemustine and whole brain irradiation (arm B, n 
= 37). Fotemustine was administered intravenously at 100 mg m(-2) on day 1, 8 
and 15, followed by a 5-week rest period, then every 3 weeks in non-progressive 
patients. In arm B, a concomitant whole brain irradiation was performed at the 
total dose of 37.5 Gy (2.5 Gy/d(-1), days 1-5, 3 consecutive weeks).
RESULTS: Although patients who received fotemustine alone had worse prognostic 
factors, there was no significant difference in brain response (arm A: 7.4%, B: 
10.0%) or control rates (objective response plus stable disease) after seven 
weeks (arm A: 30%, B: 47%) and overall survival (arm A: 86d, B: 105d). However, 
there was a significant difference in favour of arm B for the time to brain 
progression (p = 0.028, Wilcoxon test).
CONCLUSION: Fotemustine plus whole brain irradiation delayed the time to brain 
progression of melanoma cerebral metastases compared to fotemustine alone but 
without a significant improvement in terms of objective control or overall 
survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00284-6
PMID: 12648711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Cancer Radiother. 2003 Feb;7(1):17-21. doi: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00205-6.

[Primary intramedullary ependymomas: retrospective study of 16 cases].

[Article in French]

Kochbati L(1), Nasr C, Frikha H, Gargouri W, Benna F, Besbes M, Daoud J, 
Bouaouina N, Ben Abdallah M, Maalej M.

Author information:
(1)Service de radiothérapie carcinologie, institut Salah-Azaïz, Tunis, Bab 
Saadoun 1006, Tunis, Tunisie. lotfi.kochbati@rns.tn <lotfi.kochbati@rns.tn>

PURPOSE: To review the radiotherapy department experience in treating primary 
spinal cord ependymomas (PSCE), analyse prognostic factors and provide treatment 
recommendations regarding literature review.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixteen patients with PSCE received postoperative 
radiotherapy between 1972 and 1997. There were 10 male and 6 female patients 
with a mean age of 34 years (range 2-63). Surgery was gross total resection in 2 
cases, subtotal resection in 9, biopsy in 4 and of unknown type in one patient. 
All patients were treated with radiotherapy to the craniospinal axis (4 cases), 
spinal cord (1 case) and to the site of primary tumour in 11 cases.
RESULTS: Five year-survival rate was 73%. Two patients had recurrent tumours 
within the primary site. Gender, extent of surgery and treatment field extent 
were not prognostic factors. Histologic type was the only variable predictive of 
outcome. Patients with myxopapillary type had a 5-year survival rate of 100% 
compared with 47% for those with other histology types.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that aggressive surgery is not necessary in the 
management of PSCE, localised field radiotherapy is associated with favourable 
outcome, and tumour grade is an important prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(02)00205-6
PMID: 12648713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Surg Neurol. 2003 Feb;59(2):120-3; discussion 123. doi: 
10.1016/s0090-3019(02)00985-0.

Congenital cavernous angioma of the temporal bone: case report.

Honda M(1), Toda K, Baba H, Yonekura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, National Nagasaki Medical Center, Omura, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Congenital cavernous angioma is a very rare tumor that occurs in 
young adolescents. We describe a rare case of congenital cavernous angioma of 
the temporal bone in a neonate. Ultrasonography (US) and dynamic magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) were helpful in its diagnosis.
CASE DESCRIPTION: US and MRI of the fetus in the 32nd week of gestation revealed 
a large extra-axial tumor with intra- and extracranial extension. After the 
birth, US and dynamic MRI studies were performed in addition to conventional CT 
and MRI. These findings were compatible with cavernous angioma. The mass was 
totally removed on the fourth day of life and was found at surgery to originate 
from the skull. Histopathological diagnosis was cavernous angioma. The 
usefulness of US and dynamic MRI are also discussed.
CONCLUSION: US and dynamic MRI are useful, less invasive techniques for 
diagnosing this rare type of tumor. They provide useful information to 
differentiate calvarial mass lesions in neonates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(02)00985-0
PMID: 12648911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Prev Med. 2003 Apr;36(4):403-9. doi: 10.1016/s0091-7435(02)00060-9.

Cost-effectiveness of primary prevention of coronary heart disease through risk 
factor intervention in 60-year-old men from the county of Stockholm--a 
stochastic model of exercise and dietary advice.

