Lindgren P(1), Fahlstadius P, Hellenius ML, Jönsson B, de Faire U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. Peter.Lindgren@imm.ki.se

BACKGROUND: Recent screenings show a high prevalence of cardiovascular risk 
factors in the county of Stockholm. Primary prevention may be a way to lower the 
risk burden of coronary heart disease, but we must establish that preventive 
programs are cost-effective.
METHODS: Through the use of a stochastic Markov model, which predicts reduction 
in coronary heart disease events based on risk factor reductions, this study 
evaluates the results of a previous controlled trial in middle-aged men 
comparing dietary advice, exercise, and the combination of both applied to an 
observed cohort of 60-year-old men in the county of Stockholm.
RESULTS: The model predicts lower costs and higher effectiveness for dietary 
advice compared to the alternatives. Assuming a declining effect of the 
intervention, dietary advice saves 0.0228 life-years compared to no 
intervention. If no decline is assumed, the corresponding figure is 0.0997 
life-years. From the societal perspective, the added costs are 2,892 Swedish 
Kronor (SEK) and 14,106 SEK for the two modeling assumptions, resulting in a 
cost-effectiveness of 127,065 SEK per life-year gained (LYG) and 141,555 
SEK/LYG. These figures are below what is generally thought of as cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Based on the model, dietary advice appears to be the most 
cost-effective of the studied interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-7435(02)00060-9
PMID: 12649048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Blood. 2003 Jul 15;102(2):462-9. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-11-3527. Epub 2003
Mar  20.

Prognosis of inv(16)/t(16;16) acute myeloid leukemia (AML): a survey of 110 
cases from the French AML Intergroup.

Delaunay J(1), Vey N, Leblanc T, Fenaux P, Rigal-Huguet F, Witz F, Lamy T, 
Auvrignon A, Blaise D, Pigneux A, Mugneret F, Bastard C, Dastugue N, Van den 
Akker J, Fière D, Reiffers J, Castaigne S, Leverger G, Harousseau JL, Dombret H; 
French Acute Myeloid Leukemia Intergroup; Groupe Ouest-Est des Leucémies Aiguës 
Myéoblastiques; Leucémies Aiguës Myéoblastiques de l'Enfant; Acute Leukemia 
French Association; Bordeaux-Grenoble-Marseille-Toulouse cooperative groups.

Author information:
(1)Departement of Hematology, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

Acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs) carrying inv(16)/t(16;16) chromosomal 
abnormalities are associated with a good prognosis. However, studies of this AML 
subtype have been hampered by the few number of patients reported, frequently 
collectively considered with those with AML carrying the t(8;21) translocation. 
We performed a retrospective study in 110 patients with inv(16)/t(16;16) AML 
(median age, 34 years) prospectively enrolled in 6 trials conducted in France 
between 1987 and 1998, with the aim to investigate prognostic factors for 
complete remission (CR) achievement and outcome of CR patients in this AML 
subtype. CR rate was 93%. Bad-prognosis factors for CR achievement were higher 
white blood cell count (WBC) and lower platelet count (optimal cutpoints at 120 
and 30 x 109/L, respectively). At 3 years, estimated overall survival, 
disease-free survival (DFS), and cumulative incidence of relapse were 58%, 48%, 
and 42%, respectively. In multivariate analysis, (1) advanced age (optimal 
cutpoint, 35 years) was the only factor for shorter DFS and (2) advanced age and 
low platelet count were the 2 factors for shorter survival of CR patients. 
Outcome of CR patients (1) was not influenced by WBC and cytogenetic findings 
and (2) was similar among patients allocated to receive allogeneic 
transplantation, high-dose, or intermediate-dose cytarabine. Interestingly, 
advanced age was associated with a trend for more frequent additional chromosome 
abnormalities and predictive of higher cumulative incidence of relapse rather 
than death in first CR. These results markedly contrast with those reported in 
patients with t(8;21) AML in whom WBC, and not age, was the main high-risk 
factor for relapse, DFS, and survival.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-11-3527
PMID: 12649129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Blood. 2003 Jul 15;102(2):470-6. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-12-3629. Epub 2003
Mar  20.

Graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic transplantation from 
HLA-identical sibling with antithymocyte globulin-based reduced-intensity 
preparative regimen.

Mohty M(1), Bay JO, Faucher C, Choufi B, Bilger K, Tournilhac O, Vey N, Stoppa 
AM, Coso D, Chabannon C, Viens P, Maraninchi D, Blaise D.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Transplantation et de Thérapie Cellulaire, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, 
Marseille, France.

Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens are increasingly used for 
allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT). RIC has been shown to allow 
engraftment with minimal early transplantation-related mortality (TRM). However, 
in the context of RIC, predictive factors for acute and chronic 
graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD and cGVHD, respectively) and their effect on 
outcome remain unknown. In this report, we analyzed the outcome of 101 high-risk 
patients (70 hematologic and 31 nonhematologic malignancies) who received an 
HLA-identical sibling allo-SCT after RIC, including fludarabine, busulfan, and 
antithymocyte globulin (ATG). The cumulative incidence of grade II-IV aGVHD was 
36% (95% confidence interval [CI], 27%-45%), whereas the cumulative incidence of 
cGVHD at 2 years was 43% (95% CI, 33%-53%). In multivariate analysis, the 
incidence of aGVHD was significantly associated with the ATG dose infused during 
conditioning (P =.0005), whereas peripheral blood as stem cell source was the 
only predictive factor for the development of cGVHD (P =.0007). The 1-year 
cumulative incidences of disease progression or relapse in patients with (n = 
69) and without (n = 31) GVHD (whatever its form or grade) were 30% (95% CI, 
19%-41%) and 55% (95% CI, 37%-72%), respectively (P =.02), suggesting that a 
potent graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect can be achieved in high-risk patients 
following RIC. Moreover, the GVT effect was closely associated with GVHD without 
an increased risk of TRM (cumulative incidence of TRM, 18% [95% CI, 10%-25%]). 
Collectively, these results provide a framework for the refinement of RIC 
approaches designed to enhance the GVT effect with an acceptable risk of GVHD.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-12-3629
PMID: 12649133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2002;104(12):1160-6.

[On the lifestyle of the aged from the view point of holistic medicine].

[Article in Japanese]

Hinohara S(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Luke's International Hospital.

The population of the elderly in Japan has rapidly increasing. I want to 
introduce the new movement of "the new elder citizens of over the age of 75 
years old". The average life expectancy of Japanese newborn is 77.10 years for 
males, and 84.62 for females. Yet the birth rate in Japan is low (1.22). 
Therefore this will further reduce the number of the productive and young age 
group would support the seniors. This is why the elderly support ration will 
come down by more than half eventually to end with 50%. In preparation for such 
changes to occur ageism, which is an attitude of discrimination according to 
age, must be vanished. Aged people should be evaluated by individual physical 
and mental strength, rather than by mere chronological age. Forty years ago, 
definition of seniors in Japan was "age 65 and over". At that time in the 1960's 
the average life span of the Japanese was 68 years. However, in the subsequent 
40 years, the average life expectancy is in around to 81 years. So, I believe 
that seniors should not take care of by those from age 20 to 64; rather, they 
should be self-reliant and engaged in social activities. In view of this, in 
September 2000, I proposed a change in defining seniors. In stead of "age 65 and 
over", seniors should be "age 75 and over". As the result, the association for 
the New Elder Citizens has been organized. Those of us who turn 75 in the year 
2000 were 20 years when World War II ended in 1945. I believe those seniors over 
75 have a mission to tell the next generation the many lessons we have learned 
during wartime experiences. Besides it is recommended that those new elder 
citizens are encouraged to live their further life under the following slogans: 
1. to love 2. to begin and create 3. to preserve (with hardships, so as to learn 
sympathize with others who are under strain). We already started the cohort 
study of coming 10 years of those new elder citizens by investigating annual 
physical check up and their behavior and environmental elements as well as 
genetic study of aging process including senile dementia. Many of these Japanese 
elderly people have selectively good health physically, mentally and 
spiritually. Japanese word "Kenko" (health) consists of two Chinese characters. 
The first means a state of great strength, fullness and self-support. The second 
character of Ken-ko means "peacefulness", or serenity of mind without stress. It 
means holistically healthy entity. The root of the English term "Health" goes 
back to the 16th century Anglo-Saxon word, "Hāl". It embodies such concepts as 
"whole" or "heal" or "holy". It means that a healthy state prevails in the whole 
human being even if individual parts of body may be afflicted in some ways. As 
time passed, the human body necessarily declines in its functional capacities. 
However the elderly persons do have high spirituality. However he or she may 
continue to feel a sense of fulfillment and serenity. Those are hope that even 
if we have an illness or a handicap, we can still be reborn as healthy 
individual. Being holistically healthy means that these aspects of wellness 
"body", "mind" and "spirit" are integrated into the well being of a whole 
person. The New Elder Citizens are invited to participate the cohort study for 
10 years. The results would suggest that their way of living and environmental 
factors would reveal most important as compared with the hereditary gene 
factors.

PMID: 12649885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Health Serv Res. 2003 Feb;38(1 Pt 1):153-67. doi: 10.1111/1475-6773.00110.

Income inequality as a public health concern: where do we stand? Commentary on 
"Is exposure to income inequality a public health concern?".

Subramanian SV(1), Blakely T, Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Social Behavior, Harvard School of Public Health, 
USA.

Comment on
    Health Serv Res. 2003 Feb;38(1 Pt 1):137-51.

DOI: 10.1111/1475-6773.00110
PMCID: PMC1360879
PMID: 12650386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Am J Gastroenterol. 2003 Mar;98(3):679-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.07327.x.

Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with hepatitis C cirrhosis: a 
cost-utility analysis.

Arguedas MR(1), Chen VK, Eloubeidi MA, Fallon MB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294-0007, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Screening for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is advocated in 
cirrhotic patients to optimize early detection and treatment. However, the 
cost-effectiveness is not well defined. Our objective was to perform a 
cost-utility analysis from a third-party payer's perspective of no screening, 
alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) concentration measurement alone, abdominal ultrasound 
(US) and AFP, abdominal three-phase CT and AFP, and abdominal magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) and AFP.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed simulating the natural history of 
hepatitis C-related cirrhosis in a cohort of patients age 50 yr over a time 
horizon of their remaining life expectancy. Transition probabilities were 
obtained from published data and U.S. vital statistics. Costs represented 
Medicare reimbursement data. Costs and health effects were discounted at a 3% 
annual rate.
RESULTS: Screening with ultrasonography and AFP concentration measurement was 
associated with an incremental cost-utility ratio of 26,689 US dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year, whereas screening with abdominal three-phase CT and 
AFP concentration measurement was associated with an incremental cost-utility 
ratio of 25,232 US dollars per quality-adjusted life year compared with no 
screening. Compared with three-phase CT and AFP, magnetic resonance and AFP 
imaging costs 118,000 US dollars per quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated that the results are most sensitive to the annual 
incidence of HCC, proportion of tumors amenable to treatment, and to transplant 
candidacy, whereas the choice of screening strategy is most sensitive to the 
test characteristics and cost.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for HCC with CT is a cost-effective strategy in 
transplant-eligible patients with cirrhosis secondary to chronic hepatitis C 
viral (HCV) infection, comparable with other commonly accepted screening 
interventions such as mammography and colonoscopy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.07327.x
PMID: 12650806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Am J Pathol. 2003 Apr;162(4):1313-21. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)63927-2.

The human Fn14 receptor gene is up-regulated in migrating glioma cells in vitro 
and overexpressed in advanced glial tumors.

Tran NL(1), McDonough WS, Donohue PJ, Winkles JA, Berens TJ, Ross KR, Hoelzinger 
DB, Beaudry C, Coons SW, Berens ME.

Author information:
(1)Neuro-Oncology Research, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, Arizona, 
USA.

Glioblastoma multiforme comprises the majority of human brain tumors. Patients 
with glioblastoma multiforme have poor survival rates, with an average life 
expectancy of <1 year. To assess possible mechanisms and to potentially target 
invasive glioma cells, we previously measured the gene expression profiles of 
glioma cells under migration-activated or passive states. One of the genes 
identified was Fn14, which encodes a cell surface receptor for the tumor 
necrosis factor superfamily member named TWEAK. In this study, we show that Fn14 
gene expression is induced in migration-activated glioma cells in vitro and 
significantly increases according to tumor grade in vivo (P < 0.01), with 
highest levels in glioblastoma tissue specimens. The in situ expression pattern 
of Fn14 mRNA and protein was confined to primary glioma cells and the vascular 
endothelium, with no detection in adjacent normal brain. Conversely, TWEAK mRNA 
levels are low in glioblastoma samples relative to normal brain tissue. In 
addition, activation of the Fn14 receptor by addition of recombinant TWEAK 
resulted in increased glioma cell migration in vitro. These results suggest a 
positive role for TWEAK and Fn14 in glioma progression and indicate that Fn14 
gene expression may serve as a marker for invasive glioma cells.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)63927-2
PMCID: PMC1851233
PMID: 12651623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Fam Pract. 2003 Apr;20(2):207-12. doi: 10.1093/fampra/20.2.207.

Effect of extension of postgraduate training in general practice on the 
acquisition of knowledge of trainees.

Kramer AW(1), Düsman H, Tan LH, Jansen KJ, Grol RP, van der Vleuten CP.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Evaluation of Postgraduate Training in General Practice 
(SVUH), Utrecht, The Netherlands. Carol_ann@tiro.nl

BACKGROUND: Postgraduate training in general practice aims to develop clinical 
competence. However, little is known about its effect on trainees' development 
of competence.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to investigate whether 3 years of postgraduate training 
in general practice leads to a higher level of knowledge than 2 years training 
while maintaining the same structure and educational objectives.
METHODS: This retrospective study had a mixed longitudinal design. Trainees of 
the Dutch postgraduate training in general practice participated. Knowledge was 
assessed by written progress testing of knowledge relevant to general practice 
embedded in real life situations. Test results were collected from 1992 to 1999. 
The results of trainees who received the 2-year and 3-year curriculum were 
compared.
RESULTS: Both curricula started with the same entrance level and showed the 
largest acquisition of knowledge at the start and towards the end of training. 
Both curricula showed stagnation in growth at the end of the training period in 
which trainees rotate through hospitals, nursing homes and mental health 
institutions. The level of knowledge at the end of training was significantly 
higher for the 3-year curriculum.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that postgraduate training contributes to an 
increase in knowledge and that a 3-year programme leads to a higher level of 
knowledge than a 2-year programme. The stagnation in growth found at the end of 
rotations through hospitals, nursing homes and mental health institutions 
questions the impact of these rotations on the development of competence and the 
efficacy of the training as a whole. Further study is needed to draw more firm 
conclusions.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/20.2.207
PMID: 12651797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Biogerontology. 2003;4(1):1-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1022448532248.

Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and aging: controversies and new insights.

Bartke A(1), Chandrashekar V, Dominici F, Turyn D, Kinney B, Steger R, Kopchick 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale, IL 62901-6512, USA. abartke@siumed.edu

Insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling plays a major role in the 
control of aging and life span in invertebrates. Major extension of life span in 
growth hormone receptor knock out (GHR-KO) mice that are GH resistant, and 
subsequently, IGF-I-deficient indicates that similar mechanisms may operate in 
mammals. This conclusion is supported by association of reduced IGF-I levels and 
delayed aging in three different GH-deficient mutant mice and in animals 
subjected to caloric restriction, but is difficult to reconcile with 
neuroprotective effects of IGF-I and with the suspected role of declining GH 
levels during aging. We suggest that the role of IGF in the regulation of growth 
and adult body size is important in mediating the effects of longevity genes on 
aging and life span. Suspected mechanisms of IGF-I action in aging also include 
reduced insulin signaling, enhanced sensitivity to insulin, and reduced 
thermogenesis with diminished oxidative damage of macromolecules being the 
likely final common pathway of these effects. We suspect that IGF-I is important 
in evolutionarily conserved mechanisms that link life history, including 
development, reproduction, and aging with availability of energy resources.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022448532248
PMID: 12652183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Biogerontology. 2003;4(1):31-45. doi: 10.1023/a:1022425317536.

Biological evidence for limits to the duration of life.

Carnes BA(1), Olshansky SJ, Grahn D.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago, 
1155 E. 60th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. bruce@src.uchicago.edu

Projections of duration of life for humans based on mathematical models have led 
some researchers to claim that there is no lower limit to death rates or upper 
limit to life expectancy, and that a life expectancy of 100 will be achieved in 
the 21st century. To assess the biological plausibility of these claims, we 
examined temporal aspects of biological phenomena in three mammalian species. 
Our examination revealed that: (1) physiological declines associated with 
reproduction consistently occur at ages that are less than one-third of the 
median age at death, (2) physiological parameters associated with aging in 
humans lose eighty percent of their functional capacity by age 80, and (3) young 
versus old individuals can be distinguished by the pathologies detected at 
death. The biological evidence suggests that organisms operate under warranty 
periods that limit the duration of life of individuals and the life expectancy 
of populations. We use these findings to discuss the issue of limits to the 
duration of life and the validity of mathematical models used to forecast human 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022425317536
PMID: 12652187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Diabetologia. 2003 Mar;46 Suppl 1:M30-6. doi: 10.1007/s00125-002-0934-2.
Epub  2002 Dec 18.

The role of oral antidiabetic agents: why and when to use an early-phase insulin 
secretion agent in Type II diabetes mellitus.

Standl E(1), Füchtenbusch M.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute Munich, Kölner Platz 1, 80804 Munich, Germany. 
eberhard.standl@lrz.uni-muenchen.de

Evidence obtained in the 1990's strongly supports the notion that glycaemic 
control is important not only in Type I (insulin-dependent), but also in Type II 
(non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. Although measurement of HbA(1c) is 
the standard for assessing the effect of glucose control in the occurrence and 
prevention of diabetic sequelae, more recent evidence indicates that other 
glucose parameters are also important. Postchallenge and postprandial 
hyperglycaemic peaks seem to be prospective determinants of vascular damage in 
early Type II diabetes. Currently, there is no overall accepted standard 
approach for the pharmacological management of Type II diabetes. The United 
Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study has shown that reaching a near-normal 
glycaemic target is critically important and the pharmacotherapy of this 
progressive disease is difficult. Loss of endogenous insulin secretion has been 
substantiated to cause the progression of Type II diabetes in the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study. Early insulinization, however, was not advantageous 
over other forms of therapy. The advent of polypharmacy in recent years has 
greatly strengthened the treatment of this disease. This synergy has been 
extended of late with the development of early-phase insulin secretion agents. 
Two such agents, nateglinide and repaglinide, can be used to reduce mealtime 
glucose excursions and HbA(1c) as monotherapy, and in combination with 
metformin; their antidiabetic potential is similar to the combination treatment 
with glibenclamide and metformin. Additional substantiation of their long-term 
effect on improving life expectancy and reducing diabetic complications in Type 
II diabetic patients is now required.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-002-0934-2
PMID: 12652356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Rev Neurol. 2003 Mar 16-31;36(6):549-54.

[Neurobiological relations and aging].

[Article in Spanish]

Duque-Parra JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa de medicina, Departamento de Ciencias Básicas, Universidad de 
Caldas, Manizales, Colombia. jorgedp@telesat.com.co

Of the different aspects of a series of neurobiological changes that take place 
throughout the life cycle of an individual, in this paper we examine those 
involved in the aging process. These changes have been associated on different 
scales, including on a macroscopic level, that take into account variations in 
the shape, weight and volume of the brain and other encephalic structures. A 
part of the information about the weight seems to be incompatible and hence its 
incompatibility has been questioned and argued from a quantitative perspective. 
The functional option has been proposed as an alternative in the maintenance of 
normal brain functioning, as have changes on the microscopic scale in neuronal 
processes, the reduction in number of neurons in certain parts of the brain, 
which has also been questioned for the case of olfactory nerve fibres, and 
finally changes that take place on the molecular scale in the alteration of some 
neurotransmitters in certain parts, modifications suffered by mitochondrial 
enzymes and others that depend on the genome. These aspects have all been taken 
into consideration along with a resulting physiological relation in an attempt 
to gain a slightly more holistic, although still fragmented, view of the 
process, and to consider neoteny as an evolutionary strategy in the human 
species that serves to maintain brain functioning.

PMID: 12652420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Health Econ. 2003 Apr;12(4):255-67. doi: 10.1002/hec.713.

Does it matter who you are or what you gain? An experimental study of 
preferences for resource allocation.

Schwappach DL(1).

Author information:
(1)University Witten /Herdecke, Department of Health Policy and Management, 
Witten, Germany. dlb@healthecon.de

Using an experimental conjoint-analysis like approach, preferences for resource 
allocation were studied. An interactive survey was developed which was published 
in the World Wide Web. A convenience sample of undergraduate students 
participated in the study. Subjects were confronted with nine pairwise scenarios 
describing hypothetical patient groups in need of life-saving treatments. The 
patient groups presented differed in terms of their health-related lifestyle, 
socioeconomic status, age, life expectancy, quality of life after treatment and 
whether they had received extensive medical care in the past. Participants were 
asked to allocate a finite budget to each patient group. All attributes used in 
this study significantly influenced respondents' preferences on how to allocate 
the budget between patient groups. The general importance of attributes used in 
the QALY approach is supported by this study with quality of life being a 
central criterion. The distributional patterns observed were, however, different 
from those expected when rigorously adhering to the QALY framework: In only a 
very small fraction of allocations subjects distributed the entire budget 
strictly on the patient group expecting the highest QALY gain. The vast majority 
of responders was willing to trade efficiency for a more equal distribution of 
resources. The approach described can be used to analyze the importance people 
place on different attributes in resource allocation decisions and to study 
preferences for the final distribution of resources.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.713
PMID: 12652513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Harefuah. 2003 Feb;142(2):94-6, 160.

[Causes of blindness in the year 2000 in Israel].

[Article in Hebrew]

Avisar R(1), Bahar I, Weinberger D.

Author information:
(1)Rabin Medical Center, Golda Campus, Petah Tiqva Sackler School of Medicine, 
Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv.

This study of the causes of blindness in Israel in the year 2000 is based on the 
National Registry of the Blind in Israel. Patients are considered blind if they 
have a visual acuity of 1/60 or worse, in their better eye, or visual field loss 
of > 20 degree, in their better eye. At the end of 1998, 15,937 were registered 
as blind, 2.7/1000 of the total population and in the year 2000 2.9/1000. The 
leading causes of blindness in Israel in 1998 were glaucoma, macular 
degeneration and diabetes mellitus. In the year 2000 the leading causes of 
blindness are: macular degeneration, glaucoma and diabetes mellitus. Macular 
degeneration is found to be more prevalent in the year 2000 because of high life 
expectancy of the total population. Glaucoma is found to be less prevalent then 
in 1998. This can be attributed to early diagnosis and better treatment of the 
disease. Early detection of glaucoma and good response to treatment is essential 
for prevention of blindness in such cases.

PMID: 12653039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Memory. 2003 Jan;11(1):89-100. doi: 10.1080/741938169.

Remembering or knowing others? Person recognition and recollective experience.

Brandt KR(1), Macrae CN, Schloerscheidt AM, Milne AB.

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol, UK. karendt@cogs.susx.ac.uk

Using Tulving's (1985) remember/know procedure, the present research 
investigated the experiential concomitants of person recognition. Noting basic 
differences in the manner in which the mind processes expectancy-related 
material, it was anticipated that facial typicality would be a critical 
determinant of people's recollective experiences (i.e., remembering vs knowing). 
In particular, it was expected that whereas remember responses would be more 
prevalent for distinctive than typical faces, know responses would reflect the 
opposite pattern. The results of two experiments provided general support for 
these predictions. In addition, the recollective advantage for distinctive faces 
was traced to the availability of attentional resources at encoding. These 
results are considered in the context of contemporary issues in person 
recognition and social cognition.

DOI: 10.1080/741938169
PMID: 12653491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Health Technol Assess. 2002;6(29):1-146. doi: 10.3310/hta6290.

Treatment of established osteoporosis: a systematic review and cost-utility 
analysis.

Kanis JA(1), Brazier JE, Stevenson M, Calvert NW, Lloyd Jones M.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield 
Medical School, Sheffield, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta6290
PMID: 12654239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003 Feb;56(2):116-23. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00581-4.

Techniques for knowledge discovery in existing biomedical databases: estimation 
of individual aging effects in cognition in relation to dementia.

Mitnitski AB(1), Mogilner AJ, Graham JE, Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Medicine Research, Unit Suite 1421, Dalhousie University, 5955 
Veterans' Memorial Lane, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 2E1, Canada.

New interest is being expressed in the systematic application of modeling 
techniques to existing datasets. Under the rubric of Knowledge Discovery in 
Databases (KDD) large databases are being exploited for commercial and 
scientific purposes. This article reviews the development and applications of 
KDD techniques to dementia, using the longitudinal Canadian Study of Health and 
Aging dataset. KDD has demonstrated usefulness at the group level. For example, 
as in the course of functional impairment between Alzheimer's disease and no 
cognitive impairment suggest damage control-protection mechanisms for the former 
compared with noncompensated random accumulation of deficits for the latter. At 
the individual level, KDD suggests that more precise diagnosis seems possible as 
well as individual life expectancy prediction. Biomedical databases appear to 
hold the potential for novel insights when explored by systematic modeling.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(02)00581-4
PMID: 12654405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1169-76. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04379-1.

A comparison of surgical resection and stereotactic radiosurgery in the 
treatment of solitary brain metastases.

O'Neill BP(1), Iturria NJ, Link MJ, Pollock BE, Ballman KV, O'Fallon JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA. boneill@mayo.edu

PURPOSE: To determine whether neurosurgery (NS) or stereotactic radiosurgery 
(RS) provided better local tumor control and enhanced patient survival.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Retrospective review of all solitary brain metastases 
(SBM) patients newly diagnosed at Mayo Clinic Rochester between 1991 and 1999. 
Eligible patients satisfied tumor size and SBM site criteria to qualify for both 
NS and RS.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between 74 NS and 23 RS patients 
in terms of baseline characteristics (age, gender, systemic disease type, 
systemic disease status, signs/symptoms at SBM presentation) or percent of 
patients who received whole brain radiotherapy. Median follow-up for alive 
patients was 20 months (range 0-106 months). There was no significant difference 
in patient survival (p = 0.15); the 1-year survival rate was 56% for the RS 
patients and 62% for the NS patients. Multivariate Cox regression analysis found 
that a significant prognostic factor for survival was a performance score of 0 
or 1. There was a significant (p = 0.020) difference in local tumor control 
between NS and RS for solitary brain metastasis; none of the RS group had local 
recurrence compared to 19 (58%) of the NS group.
CONCLUSION: The need for a Phase III study comparing these two techniques 
appears to be supported by the data from this study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04379-1
PMID: 12654423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1186-95. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04476-0.

Determinants and prognoses of locoregional and distant progression in breast 
cancer.

Engel J(1), Eckel R, Aydemir U, Aydemir S, Kerr J, Schlesinger-Raab A, Dirschedl 
P, Hölzel D.

Author information:
(1)Munich Cancer Registry of the Munich Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department 
of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, Ludwig 
Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany. engel@ibe.med.uni-muenchen.de

PURPOSE: To describe locoregional and distant progression in a population-based 
breast cancer sample.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1978 and 1998, the Munich Cancer Registry 
evaluated 14,429 patients. The mean follow-up of survivors was 8.3 years. 
Metastases (MET), local recurrence (LR), and lymph node recurrence (LNR) were 
considered as outcome measures. The prognostic factor for, and effects of, LR 
and MET were assessed multivariately by the Cox and dynamic Aalen models.
RESULTS: The LR and MET rate increased with increasing tumor size, with the 
latter described by pT category. Distant MET occurred earlier than local 
progression. MET was recorded even earlier for MET alone. The mean time from 
diagnosis to MET for MET and LR was 54.9, 43.4, 29.4, and 24.7 months and for 
MET only was 36.5, 31.0, 22.6, and 12.9 months for pT1, pT2, pT3, and pT4, 
respectively. After MET, survival varied only slightly by pT stage; after LR, a 
more favorable prognosis, especially for pT1 and pT2, was evident. The prognosis 
after MET depended mainly on the MET location; 50% of patients with cerebral or 
nervous system MET survived <1 year and 50% of those with skeletal MET survived 
>2 years. In the Cox model, the relative risk of LR for MET was 3.0. In the 
Aalen model, after 30 months, when the hazard rates of MET began to decline, 
there was still an excess risk of MET after LR.
CONCLUSION: This disease description highlights the importance of long-term 
observational studies. Empiric evidence that LR is both an indicator for, and in 
part a cause of, MET has been provided. In the future, the MET location should 
be reported. Variations in guidelines or health care systems that influence the 
time to MET and survival after MET through different diagnostic procedures 
should also be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04476-0
PMID: 12654426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1200-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04201-3.

Ten-year outcome after combined modality therapy for inflammatory breast cancer.

Harris EE(1), Schultz D, Bertsch H, Fox K, Glick J, Solin LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
PA 19104, USA. harris@xrt.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term outcome of combined modality therapy for 
inflammatory breast cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The data from 54 women treated between 1983 and 1996 for 
inflammatory breast cancer were analyzed. Patients with metastatic disease or 
disease progression on induction chemotherapy were excluded. Induction 
chemotherapy was given to 52 patients. Mastectomy was performed in 52 patients. 
Radiotherapy was delivered to the breast or chest wall and regional lymph nodes 
in all patients. The median follow-up for all patients was 5.1 years.
RESULTS: The 5- and 10-year overall survival rate was 56% and 35%, respectively; 
the corresponding relapse-free survival rates were 49% and 34%. Patients with a 
pathologic complete response after chemotherapy with or without preoperative 
radiotherapy had better 5- and 10-year overall survival rates (65% and 46%, 
respectively) and 5- and 10-year relapse-free survival rates (59% and 50%, 
respectively) compared with patients without a pathologic complete response. 
Those patients had a 5- and 10-year relapse-free survival rate of 45% and 27%, 
respectively. Locoregional failure at 5 and 10 years was 8% and 19%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The outcomes for patients completing multimodality therapy compare 
favorably with published data; however, the exclusion of patients with 
progression during induction chemotherapy may account in part for these results. 
The pathologic complete response rate was found to be an important prognostic 
factor. Selected patients with inflammatory breast cancer have the potential for 
long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04201-3
PMID: 12654428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1209-15. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04273-6.

Risk of lymphedema after regional nodal irradiation with breast conservation 
therapy.

Coen JJ(1), Taghian AG, Kachnic LA, Assaad SI, Powell SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. snpowell@partners.org

Erratum in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Jun 1;56(2):604.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the risk factors for lymphedema in patients receiving 
breast conservation therapy for early-stage breast cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1982 and 1995, 727 Stage I-II breast cancer 
patients were treated with breast conservation therapy at Massachusetts General 
Hospital. A retrospective analysis of the development of persistent arm edema 
was performed. Lymphedema was defined as a >2-cm difference in forearm 
circumference compared with the untreated side. The median follow-up was 72 
months. Breast and regional nodal irradiation (BRNI) was administered in 32% of 
the cases and breast irradiation alone in 68%.
RESULTS: Persistent arm lymphedema was documented in 21 patients. The 10-year 
actuarial incidence was 4.1%. The median time to edema was 39 months. The only 
significant risk factor for lymphedema was BRNI. The 10-year risk was 1.8% for 
breast irradiation alone vs. 8.9% for BRNI (p = 0.001). The extent of axillary 
dissection did not predict for lymphedema even within the subgroups of patients 
defined by the extent of irradiation. Most patients underwent Level I or II 
dissection. In this subgroup, the lymphedema risk at 10 years was 10.7% for BRNI 
vs. 1.0% for breast irradiation alone (p = 0.0003).
CONCLUSION: Nodal irradiation was the only significant risk factor for arm 
lymphedema in patients receiving breast conservation therapy for early-stage 
breast cancer. Our data suggest that this risk is low with Level I/II dissection 
and breast irradiation. However, even after the addition of radiotherapy to the 
axilla and supraclavicular fossa, the development of lymphedema was only 1 in 
10, lower than generally recognized.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04273-6
PMID: 12654429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1226-32. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04405-x.

Concurrent mitomycin C, 5-fluorouracil, and radiotherapy in the treatment of 
locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix: a randomized trial.

Lorvidhaya V(1), Chitapanarux I, Sangruchi S, Lertsanguansinchai P, Kongthanarat 
Y, Tangkaratt S, Visetsiri E.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 
bicharnlor@excite.com

PURPOSE: This is a prospective, Phase III multicenter randomized trial to assess 
the effectiveness of concurrent intravenous mitomycin C, oral 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU), and radiotherapy (RT) in locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between January 1988 and November 1994, 926 patients with 
locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix, FIGO Stage IIB-IVA, were entered into 
this study. The patients were randomized into four arms, as follows: Arm 1: 
conventional RT; Arm 2: conventional RT and adjuvant chemotherapy; Arm 3: 
conventional RT plus concurrent chemotherapy; Arm 4: conventional RT plus 
concurrent chemotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy. Concurrent chemotherapy 
consisting of intravenous mitomycin C at 10 mg/m(2) was given on Days 1 and 29, 
and oral 5-FU at 300 mg/day was administered on Days 1-14 and 29-42 during RT. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy of 5-FU orally at 200 mg/day was given for three courses 
of 4 weeks, with a 2-week rest every 6 weeks. Six centers participated in the 
trial.
RESULTS: The median follow-up time was 89 months. Acute side effects were 
generally higher in concurrent arms, but most of the patients tolerated the 
treatment well. Bone marrow toxicity was also higher in concurrent arms. The 
5-year actuarial disease-free survival (DFS) was 48.2%, 54.1%, 64.5%, and 59.7% 
for arms 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. The pattern of failure revealed a 
significant increase in locoregional recurrence in the nonconcurrent 
chemoradiotherapy arm. The local recurrence was 25.5%, 20.6%, 14.3%, and 17.6% 
for arms 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. The metastatic rates were not 
significantly different in all four arms. At the time of analysis, there were no 
increases in late side effects, especially in gastrointestinal and genitourinary 
systems.
CONCLUSIONS: Concurrent chemotherapy, mitomycin C, and 5-FU together with 
conventional RT showed an improved DFS rate when compared with conventional RT 
alone in patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04405-x
PMID: 12654431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1233-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04477-2.

Assessing tumor hypoxia in cervical cancer by positron emission tomography with 
60Cu-ATSM: relationship to therapeutic response-a preliminary report.

Dehdashti F(1), Grigsby PW, Mintun MA, Lewis JS, Siegel BA, Welch MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nuclear Medicine, Edward Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, St. 
Louis, MO 63110, USA. dehdashti@mir.wustl.edu

PURPOSE: Tumor hypoxia is associated with poor response to therapy. We have 
investigated whether pretreatment tumor hypoxia assessed by positron emission 
tomography (PET) with Cu-60 diacetyl-bis(N(4)-methylthiosemicarbazone) 
((60)Cu-ATSM) predicts responsiveness to subsequent therapy in cervical cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Fourteen patients with biopsy-proved cervical cancer were 
studied by PET with (60)Cu-ATSM before initiation of radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy. (60)Cu-ATSM uptake was evaluated semiquantitatively by determining 
the tumor-to-muscle activity ratio (T/M) and peak slope index of tumor tracer 
uptake. All patients also underwent clinical PET with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose 
(FDG) before institution of therapy. The PET results were correlated with 
follow-up evaluation (14-24 months).
RESULTS: Tumor uptake of (60)Cu-ATSM was inversely related to progression-free 
survival and overall survival (log-rank p = 0.0005 and p = 0.015, respectively). 
An arbitrarily selected T/M threshold of 3.5 discriminated those likely to 
develop recurrence; 6 of 9 patients with normoxic tumors (T/M < 3.5) are free of 
disease at last follow-up, whereas all of 5 patients with hypoxic tumors (T/M > 
3.5) have already developed recurrence. Similar discrimination was achieved with 
the peak slope index. The frequency of locoregional nodal metastasis was greater 
in hypoxic tumors (p = 0.03). Tumor FDG uptake did not correlate with 
(60)Cu-ATSM uptake (r = 0.04; p = 0.80), and there was no significant difference 
in tumor FDG uptake between patients with hypoxic tumors and those with normoxic 
tumors.
CONCLUSION: (60)Cu-ATSM-PET in patients with cervical cancer revealed clinically 
relevant information about tumor oxygenation that was predictive of tumor 
behavior and response to therapy in this small study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04477-2
PMID: 12654432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1247-53. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04401-2.

Hyperfractionated radiotherapy with concurrent chemotherapy for para-aortic 
lymph node recurrence in carcinoma of the cervix.

Kim JS(1), Kim JS, Kim SY, Kim Ki, Cho MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Chungnam National University, Daejon, 
South Korea. dkjsk@cnu.ac.kr

PURPOSE: To evaluate efficacy, toxicity, and patterns of relapse in patients 
treated with hyperfractionated radiotherapy (HFRT) with concurrent chemotherapy 
for para-aortic lymph node (PALN) recurrence of cervical carcinoma.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between September 1997 and October 2000, 12 cervical 
carcinoma patients with isolated PALN recurrence who had previously received 
radical or postoperative radiotherapy were treated with HFRT and concurrent 
chemotherapy. The initial FIGO stage was Stage IB in 4 (33%) patients, Stage IIA 
in 2 (17%), and Stage IIB in 6 (50%). The radiation field encompassed the gross 
recurrent PALN with the superior margin at the upper end of the T12 body and the 
inferior margin between L5 and S1. The fractionated dose was 1.2 Gy in 2 daily 
fractions, and the median total dose was 60 Gy. The weekly concurrent 
chemotherapy consisted of paclitaxel in 11 patients and cisplatin in 1. The 
median number of cycles of chemotherapy was 5.
RESULTS: The latent period to PALN recurrence from the time of initial treatment 
for all patients ranged from 2 to 92 months (median: 12 months). One month after 
treatment, the clinical tumor response evaluated was complete in 33% (4/12) and 
partial in 67% (8/12). The 3-year overall survival rate and median survival were 
19% and 21 months, respectively. The latent period to PALN recurrence was the 
only significant prognostic factor; the median survival of patients who relapsed 
in < or =24 months from the initial treatment of cervical carcinoma was 13 
months vs. 45 months for those relapsed at >24 months (p = 0.026). Grade 3-4 
hematologic toxicity developed in 2 patients. Six (50%) patients experienced 
Grade 2 nausea. There were no late gastrointestinal or neurologic complications 
during the follow-up period. Subsequent distant metastases after PALN treatment 
developed in 58% (7/12).
CONCLUSION: HFRT of 60 Gy to PALN with concurrent chemotherapy could be regarded 
as an effective treatment modality without significant acute or late toxicity. 
Patients with a latent period >24 months until PALN recurrence had a more 
favorable survival rate than those with a latent period </=24 months. Subsequent 
distant metastasis after PALN recurrence was the main cause of death and is a 
problem to overcome in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04401-2
PMID: 12654434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1254-64. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04525-x.

Treatment results of high-dose-rate remote afterloading brachytherapy for 
cervical cancer and retrospective comparison of two regimens.

Wong FC(1), Tung SY, Leung TW, Sze WK, Wong VY, Lui CM, Yuen KK, O SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Tuen Mun Hospital, (Special Administrative 
Region), Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. frankwg@hutchcity.com

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1159-61.

PURPOSE: To review the treatment results and complications of high-dose-rate 
(HDR) intracavitary brachytherapy for patients with carcinoma of the cervix in a 
single institute and to compare them with those of low-dose-rate (LDR) 
brachytherapy reported in the literature.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Two hundred twenty patients with carcinoma of the cervix 
were treated by primary radiotherapy between 1991 and 1998. The median age was 
63 (range 24-84). The distribution according to Federation of Gynecology and 
Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system was as follows: Stage IB, 11.4%; IIA, 9.1%; 
IIB, 50.9%; IIIA, 3.6%; IIIB, 23.2%; and IVA, 1.8%. They were treated with whole 
pelvic irradiation giving 40 Gy to the midplane in 20 fractions over 4 weeks. 
This was followed by parametrial irradiation, giving 16-20 Gy in 8-10 fractions. 
HDR intracavitary brachytherapy was given weekly, with a dose of 7 Gy to point A 
for three fractions and, starting from 1996, 6 Gy weekly for four fractions. The 
median overall treatment time was 50 days (range 42-73 days). The median 
follow-up time was 4.7 years (range 3 months to 11.1 years). Multivariate 
analysis was performed using the Cox regression proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: The complete remission rate after radiotherapy was 93.4% (211/226). The 
5-year actuarial failure-free survival (FFS) and cancer-specific survival (CSS) 
rates for stage IB, IIA, IIB, IIIA, IIIB, and IVA were 87.7% and 86.6%, 85% and 
85%, 67.8% and 74%, 46.9% and 54.7%, 44.8% and 50.4%, 0% and 25%, respectively. 
On multivariate analysis, young age (< 50) (p = 0.0054), adenocarcinoma (p = 
0.0384), and stage (p = 0.0005) were found to be independent poor prognostic 
factors. The 5-year actuarial major complication rates (Grade 3 or above) were 
as follows: proctitis, 1.0%; cystitis, 0.5%; enteritis, 1.3%; and overall, 2.8%. 
On multivariate analysis, history of pelvic surgery was a significant 
prognosticator. The two HDR fractionation schedules were not a significant 
prognosticator in predicting disease control and complications.
CONCLUSION: Our experience in treating cervical cancer with HDR intracavitary 
brachytherapy is encouraging. Our treatment results and complication rates were 
compatible with those of the LDR series. Further studies are eagerly awaited to 
better define the optimal fractionation schedule for HDR brachytherapy and the 
schedule on how chemotherapy may be combined with it.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04525-x
PMID: 12654435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1265-71. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04075-0.

Long-term results of proton beam therapy for carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

Kagei K(1), Tokuuye K, Okumura T, Ohara K, Shioyama Y, Sugahara S, Akine Y.

Author information:
(1)Proton Medical Research Center, University Hospital, University of Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan. kkagei@md.tsukaba.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To determine the role of proton therapy in patients with carcinoma of 
the uterine cervix.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1983 and 1991, 25 patients with squamous cell 
carcinoma of the uterine cervix (stages IIB-IVA) were treated with a curative 
intent by external photon irradiation to the pelvis, followed by proton 
irradiation to the primary tumor, delivering a median total tumor dose of 86 Gy 
(range 71 Gy/26 Fr-101 Gy/46 Fr), and were followed for a median period of 139 
months (range 11-184 months).
RESULTS: Ten-year overall survival rates for stages IIB and IIIB/IVA patients 
were 89% and 40%, respectively. Five-year local control rates for stages IIB and 
IIIB/IVA patients were 100% and 61%, respectively. Four percent of patients 
experienced severe (Grade 4 or more) late complications in the intestine or 
urinary bladder at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: External photon and proton therapy is effective for those who are 
not eligible for intracavitary irradiation, and who otherwise have a poor 
prognosis. The results show that tumor control, survival, and morbidity are 
similar to those after conventional therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04075-0
PMID: 12654436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1272-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04404-8.

Outcome and patterns of failure in pathologic stages I-IV clear-cell carcinoma 
of the endometrium: implications for adjuvant radiation therapy.

Murphy KT(1), Rotmensch J, Yamada SD, Mundt AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60637, USA. mundt@rover.uchicago.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the outcome and patterns of failure in women with uterine 
clear-cell carcinoma and discuss implications for adjuvant radiation therapy 
(RT).
METHODS: Between 1980 and 2000, 686 endometrial carcinoma patients underwent 
primary surgery at our institution. Thirty-eight women (5.5%) had clear-cell 
tumors (18 clear-cell only, 8 clear-cell + adenocarcinoma, and 12 clear-cell + 
other unfavorable histologies [10 papillary serous, 1 uterine sarcoma, 1 both]). 
All underwent surgery and assessment of peritoneal cytology. None received 
preoperative RT. Pelvic and para-aortic node samplings were performed in 26 and 
17 patients, respectively. FIGO stages were as follows: 3 IA, 4 IB, 5 IC, 4 IIA, 
6 IIB, 8 IIIA, 2 IIIB, 3 IIIC, and 6 IV. Adjuvant therapies included the 
following: 5 none, 22 RT (13 pelvic RT, 2 vaginal brachytherapy, 7 both), 11 
chemotherapy (8 alone, 3 after pelvic RT), and 3 hormones. No patient received 
whole-abdominal RT or para-aortic RT. Median follow-up was 36.5 months.
RESULTS: The 5-year actuarial disease-free survival of the entire group was 
38.5%. No correlation was seen between relapse and stage, myometrial invasion, 
cytology, cervical extension, or involvement of extrauterine sites. Patients 
with clear +/- adenocarcinoma histology had a similar 5-year disease-free 
