survival (38.8% vs. 38.7%, p = 0.95) compared with those with clear-cell + other 
unfavorable histologies. Sixteen patients relapsed (42%). Eight failed in the 
pelvis (5 vagina, 3 lateral pelvis). There were no pelvic failures in the group 
of 22 patients who received adjuvant RT, whereas in the group of 16 women who 
did not, 8 (50%) relapsed in the pelvis (p < 0.0001). Corresponding pelvic 
failure rates in the Stage IA-IIB patients with and without RT were 0/16 (0%) 
and 5/6 (83%) (p < 0.0001). Six patients (16%) failed in the para-aortic nodes 
and 2 (5%) in the abdomen. Only 1 (2%) patient developed an isolated abdominal 
failure (This patient had a mixed clear-cell/papillary serous tumor). Of the 26 
women with clear-cell +/- adenocarcinoma histology, only 1 (3.8%) relapsed in 
the abdomen. Nine patients (24%) relapsed in distant sites, primarily the lungs 
and bone.
CONCLUSION: Clear-cell carcinoma comprises a small percentage of endometrial 
cancers, frequently presents as a mixed histology, and has a poor overall 
outcome. Unlike papillary serous tumors, clear-cell carcinoma does not seem to 
have a high propensity for abdominal failure. Our results thus do not support 
the routine use of whole-abdominal RT in these patients. Future protocols should 
focus instead on combinations of locoregional RT and chemotherapy to reduce the 
risk of local and systemic recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04404-8
PMID: 12654437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1294-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04290-6.

Volumetric considerations in radiotherapy for pediatric parameningeal 
rhabdomyosarcomas.

Chen C(1), Shu HK, Goldwein JW, Womer RB, Maity A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. maity@mail.med.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the influence of radiation volume on outcome in pediatric 
parameningeal rhabdomyosarcomas (PM-RMSs).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Thirty patients ranging in age from 2 to 18 years (median 
6) with PM-RMS were treated at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania 
and the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia between August 1988 and December 
1999. The histologic subtypes included embryonal (n = 26), alveolar (n = 3), and 
undifferentiated (n = 1). Twenty-seven patients had Group III and three had 
Group IV disease. Twenty-seven patients underwent biopsy only and three subtotal 
resection. All patients were treated with multiple-agent chemotherapy and 
external beam radiotherapy. In 8 patients, all of whom had intracranial tumor 
extension, the tumor and whole brain were treated as the initial volume. In the 
remaining patients, most of those treated before 1992 were treated to the 
prechemotherapy (CMT) tumor volume for the entire treatment up to the total 
dose, which ranged from 45 to 59.4 Gy (median dose 57.9). In contrast, patients 
treated after 1992 generally received radiation initially to the pre-CMT volume 
(30.6-40 Gy; median dose 36) followed by a conedown to the post-CMT volume to a 
final dose of 41.4-55.2 Gy (median 50.4).
RESULTS: With a median follow-up of 6.2 years (range 2.1-13.3), the actuarial 
5-year overall survival, progression-free survival, and local control rate for 
the entire group was 82%, 76%, and 76%, respectively. Seven failures and five 
deaths have been documented. In univariate analysis, histologic type, tumor 
size, and age at diagnosis were found to be predictive of overall survival and 
local control. No statistically significant difference in overall survival or 
local control was seen between patients who received a conedown to the post-CMT 
volume (n = 13) and patients in whom the pre-CMT volume was included for the 
entire treatment (n = 9).
CONCLUSION: Radiotherapy delivered to children with PM-RMS using a shrinking 
field technique with a post-CMT volume boost was effective and appears to give 
results comparable to those of patients in whom the pre-CMT volume was treated 
for the entire course. The use of such tailored treatment fields is likely to 
lead to fewer late effects and warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04290-6
PMID: 12654440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1305-10. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04399-7.

A phase I study of radiation therapy and twice-weekly gemcitabine and cisplatin 
in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer.

Martenson JA(1), Vigliotti AP, Pitot HC, Geeraerts LH, Sargent DJ, Haddock MG, 
Ghosh C, Keppen MD, Fitch TR, Goldberg RM.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

PURPOSE: In vitro studies suggest that low-dose gemcitabine sensitizes cells to 
radiation therapy and that this effect persists for 48 h after drug exposure. 
Cisplatin is a radiation sensitizer and is also synergistic with gemcitabine in 
some in vitro tumor systems. Gemcitabine's radiosensitizing properties can 
theoretically be exploited by twice-weekly administration. This study assessed 
toxicity in patients with pancreatic cancer treated with radiation therapy, 
gemcitabine, and cisplatin.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with locally advanced pancreatic or gastric 
cancer were eligible. Gemcitabine and cisplatin were given twice weekly for 3 
weeks during radiation therapy (50.4 Gy in 28 fractions). The starting dose of 
gemcitabine was 5 mg/m(2) i.v. The starting dose for cisplatin was 5 mg/m(2). 
Chemotherapy doses escalated every 3 to 6 patients according to a standard Phase 
I study design.
RESULTS: Twenty-four evaluable patients, all with pancreatic cancer, were 
treated on this protocol. Grade 3 neutropenia occurred in 2 patients, Grade 3 
thrombocytopenia occurred in 2, and Grade 4 lymphopenia occurred in 1. There was 
no clear relationship between chemotherapy dose and hematologic toxicity. The 
most common Grade 3-4 nonhematologic toxic responses were vomiting (7 patients) 
and nausea (7 patients). Dose-limiting toxicity consisting of Grade 4 nausea and 
vomiting occurred in 2 of 3 patients at dose Level 6 (gemcitabine 45 mg/m(2) 
i.v. and cisplatin 10 mg/m(2) i.v.). Six patients were treated at dose Level 5 
(gemcitabine 30 mg/m(2) i.v. and cisplatin 10 mg/m(2) i.v.) without 
dose-limiting toxicity.
CONCLUSION: Gemcitabine 30 mg/m(2) i.v. twice weekly and cisplatin 10 mg/m(2) 
i.v. twice weekly may be given concurrently with radiation therapy (50.4 Gy in 
28 fractions) with acceptable toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04399-7
PMID: 12654442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1321-30. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04576-5.

Do age and comorbidity impact treatment allocation and outcomes in limited stage 
small-cell lung cancer? a community-based population analysis.

Ludbrook JJ(1), Truong PT, MacNeil MV, Lesperance M, Webber A, Joe H, Martins H, 
Lim J.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Therapy Program, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver Island 
Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 Apr 1;55(5):1166-8.

PURPOSE: The effects of age and comorbidity on treatment and outcomes for 
patients with limited stage small-cell lung cancer (L-SCLC) are unclear. This 
study analyzes relapse and survival in a community-based population with L-SCLC 
according to age and comorbidity.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed on 174 patients with L-SCLC 
referred to the British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver Island Centre, between 
January 1991 and December 1999. Patient and treatment characteristics, disease 
response, relapse, and survival were compared among three age cohorts: <65 years 
(n = 55, 32%), 65-74 years (n = 76, 44%), and > or =75 years (n = 43, 25%); and 
according to Charlson comorbidity scores 0, 1, and > or =2. Multivariate 
analysis was performed to identify independent prognostic factors associated 
with treatment response and survival.
RESULTS: Patient factors that significantly differed with age were functional 
status classified by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status and 
number of comorbidities. Increasing age was significantly associated with fewer 
diagnostic scans. Combined modality chemoradiotherapy (CRT) was given in 86%, 
66%, and 40% of patients ages <65, 65-74, and > or =75 years, respectively, (p 
<0.0001). Thoracic irradiation use was comparable among the age cohorts (p 
>0.05), but chemotherapy use varied significantly with less intensive regimens, 
fewer cycles, and lower total doses with advancing age (p <0.05). Prophylactic 
cranial irradiation (PCI) was used in 41 patients, only 3 of whom were age >70 
years. Overall response rates to primary treatment significantly decreased with 
advancing age: 91%, 79%, and 74% in patients ages <65, 65-74, and > or =75 
years, respectively (p = 0.014). Treatment toxicity and relapse patterns were 
similar across the age cohorts. Overall 2-year survival rates were significantly 
lower with advancing age: 37%, 22%, and 19% (p = 0.003), with corresponding 
median survivals of 17, 12, and 7 months among patients ages <65, 65-74, and > 
or =75 years, respectively. On multivariate analysis, age and Charlson 
comorbidity scores were not significantly associated with treatment response and 
survival. Independent prognostic factors favorably associated with survival were 
good performance status, normal lactate dehydrogenase, absence of pleural 
effusion, and > or =four cycles of chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Increasing age was associated with decreased performance status and 
increased comorbidity. Older patients with L-SCLC were less likely to be treated 
with CRT, intensive chemotherapy, and PCI. Treatment response and survival rates 
were lower with advancing age, but this may be attributed to poor performance 
status and suboptimal treatment rather than age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04576-5
PMID: 12654444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2003 Apr;51(4):791-802. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkg133.
Epub  2003 Feb 25.

Analyses of ampC gene expression in Serratia marcescens reveal new regulatory 
properties.

Mahlen SD(1), Morrow SS, Abdalhamid B, Hanson ND.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Anti-Infectives & Biotechnology, Department of Medical 
Microbiology and Immunology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, NE 
68178, USA.

Serratia marcescens encodes an inducible, chromosomal beta-lactamase, ampC. 
Studies addressing the regulation of inducible ampC genes have focused primarily 
on Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacter freundii. The purpose of this study was 
to clone and sequence the ampC, ampR and intergenic region of S. marcescens and 
examine both inducible and basal level ampC expression. Sequence analysis of the 
S. marcescens ampC gene identified an extended 5' untranslated region (UTR) of 
126 nucleotides, which formed a prominent stem-loop structure. Induction of ampC 
expression required AmpR, and the start of transcription was determined using 
primer extension analysis. In vivo half-life analysis revealed that the 
half-life of the S. marcescens ampC transcript was 7 min. Confirmation of the in 
vivo half-life and the role of the stem-loop structure in the 5' UTR was 
demonstrated by comparing transcript half-life and luciferase expression between 
a wild-type (WT) and a 5' UTR stem-loop deletion mutant. These data demonstrated 
that the stem-loop structure was involved in transcript stability. Taken 
together, these findings indicate that constitutive expression of S. marcescens 
ampC is regulated by both transcriptional initiation and post-transcriptional 
events.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkg133
PMID: 12654751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Neurology. 2003 Mar 25;60(6):910-6. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000052991.70149.68.

Clinical features and natural history of progressive supranuclear palsy: a 
clinical cohort study.

Nath U(1), Ben-Shlomo Y, Thomson RG, Lees AJ, Burn DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Health Sciences, University of Newcastle 
upon Tyne, UK.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2003 Mar 25;60(6):892-3.

OBJECTIVE: To describe clinical features and identify prognostic predictors in 
progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP).
METHODS: Record-based diagnosis according to National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke-Society for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy criteria was 
performed in 187 cases of PSP. Clinical information was abstracted from patient 
records. Sixty-two patients (33%) were examined by the investigators. Forty-nine 
of 62 patients (79%) underwent standardized clinical assessment. Predictors of 
survival were examined after a mean of 6.4 years.
RESULTS: The most common symptoms at disease onset related to mobility (69%). Of 
patients undergoing standardized clinical assessment, diplopia occurred in 61%, 
photophobia in 43%, and eyelid apraxia in 43%. Seventy-five cases (40%) died 
during follow-up. Older age at onset and classification as probable PSP were 
associated with poorer survival. Onset of falls (hazard ratio 3.28, 95% CI 1.17 
to 9.13), speech problems (hazard ratio 4.74, 95% CI 1.10 to 20.4), or diplopia 
(hazard ratio 4.23, 95% CI 1.23 to 14.6) within 1 year and swallowing problems 
within 2 years (hazard ratio 3.91, 95% CI 1.39 to 11.0) were associated with a 
worse prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Mobility problems are the commonest early feature in PSP and visual 
symptoms are often functionally disabling. Early falls, speech and swallowing 
problems, diplopia, and early insertion of a percutaneous gastrostomy predict 
reduced survival.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000052991.70149.68
PMID: 12654952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Neurology. 2003 Mar 25;60(6):917-22. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000052686.97625.27.

Progression of gait, speech and swallowing deficits in progressive supranuclear 
palsy.

Goetz CG(1), Leurgans S, Lang AE, Litvan I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University/Rush-Presbyterian-St. 
Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA. cgoetz@rush.edu

Comment in
    Neurology. 2003 Mar 25;60(6):892-3.

OBJECTIVE: To identify outcome measures for clinical trials in progressive 
supranuclear palsy (PSP), the authors determined the time to key motor 
impairments in a well-defined patient cohort.
METHODS: The records of consecutive patients with probable PSP, defined by 
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Society for Progressive 
Supranuclear Palsy workshop criteria on first visit to a tertiary care center, 
were selected for study if the patients were seen regularly at 3- to 6-month 
intervals, had at least 24 months of care at the Rush movement disorder center, 
and were originally seen in the movement disorder center before any of the 
following key motor impairments developed: unintelligible speech, no independent 
walking, inability to stand unassisted, wheelchair-bound, or recommendation for 
feeding tube placement. Using standardized criteria from the Unified Parkinson's 
Disease Rating Scale and Hoehn and Yahr stages taken at each clinic visit, the 
authors recorded the time that each patient reached the key motor impairments 
and death. Median months from first symptom onset and from first consultation at 
the movement disorder center to each motor impairment were derived from 
Kaplan-Meier curves.
RESULTS: Fifty subjects, mean age at study entry 64.2 years, were followed to 
death (n = 21, mean duration of surveillance 53.6 months) or in ongoing fashion 
(n = 29, mean duration of surveillance 46.2 months). Eighty-eight percent of the 
sample met at least one milestone. The median time from disease onset to the 
first key motor impairment was 48 months, 24 months after first consultation. 
The three gait items occurred temporally close, and the authors considered them 
thereafter as a single milestone, occurring at a median disease duration of 57 
months, 34 months after first consultation. Unintelligible speech occurred at a 
median disease duration of 71 months, median 44 months after first consultation. 
As a composite end point, speech/gait accounted for 98% of the sample's first 
key motor impairment. Need for nasogastric tube was rarely the first milestone 
(8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Gait impairment and unintelligible speech are milestones that occur 
rapidly in PSP and can be monitored with standardized rating scales. The authors 
suggest that clinical trials use these indices to assess how interventions alter 
anticipated progression of clinical deterioration in PSP.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000052686.97625.27
PMID: 12654953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Zoolog Sci. 2003 Feb;20(2):111-9. doi: 10.2108/zsj.20.111.

Effects of 20-hydroxyecdysone and serotonin on neurite growth and survival rate 
of antennal lobe neurons in pupal stage of the silk moth Bombyx mori in vitro.

Park HH(1), Park C, Kim KS, Kwon OS, Han SS, Hwang JS, Lee SM, Seong SI, Kang 
SW, Kim HR, Lee BH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul.

Effects of 20-hydroxyecdysone and serotonin on the morphological development and 
the survival of antennal lobe neurons from day-2 pupal brains of the silk moth 
Bombyx mori were investigated in vitro. Four morphologically distinct neuronal 
types could be identified in the cultured antennal lobe neurons: unipolar, 
bipolar, multi-polar and projection neurons. Antennal lobe neurons in culture 
with 20-hydroxyecdysone and serotonin showed different patterns of the 
morphological development from those described in Manduca sexta. Projection 
neurons extend their neurites remarkably by 20-hydroxyecdysone in B. mori, but 
there is no extension from antennal lobe neurons in M. sexta. Multi-polar 
neurons conspicuously increase only formation of new branches from their primary 
neurites by serotonin in B. mori, but there are both extension and branching of 
the neurites in M. sexta. On day-5, antennal lobe neurons in lower titers of 
20-hydroxyecdysone had significantly higher survival rates than those in higher 
titers. Neurons cultured for 7 days at different levels of 20-hydroxyecdysone 
generally showed significantly lower survival rates than neurons cultured for 5 
days under the same conditions.

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.20.111
PMID: 12655173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Drugs. 2003;63(7):685-99. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200363070-00007.

Lovastatin extended release: a review of its use in the management of 
hypercholesterolaemia.

Curran MP(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Lovastatin extended release (ER) provides a new form of delivery for lovastatin, 
an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. Lovastatin ER delivers the drug in a more 
sustained fashion, as shown by a smoother plasma concentration-time profile, a 
lower maximum plasma concentration and a prolonged half-life compared with that 
of lovastatin immediate release (IR). At dosages of 10-60 mg/day, lovastatin ER 
significantly reduced levels of total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein 
(LDL)-cholesterol and triglycerides, and increased levels of high density 
lipoprotein-cholesterol, in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia in a 
randomised, double-blind study of 12 weeks' duration. These effects were 
maintained in a 6-month extension study in which patients received lovastatin 40 
or 60 mg/day. In a randomised 4-week study in 24 patients with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia, the reduction in plasma LDL-cholesterol levels was 
significantly greater with lovastatin ER 40 mg/day than with the IR formulation 
administered at the same dosage. Lovastatin ER was well tolerated in all studies 
and adverse events were usually mild to moderate and transient. The tolerability 
profile of lovastatin ER was similar to that of lovastatin IR. There were no 
reports of clinically relevant elevations in liver transaminases or creatine 
phosphokinase attributed to the drug in recipients of lovastatin ER.
CONCLUSION: The ER formulation of lovastatin provides smooth and sustained 
delivery of this established and well-tolerated agent over the dosage interval, 
significantly reducing LDL-cholesterol in patients with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia. If, as expected, the beneficial changes in lipid levels 
are maintained during long-term treatment and further clinical experience 
confirms the greater efficacy of the lovastatin ER formulation than the IR 
formulation, then lovastatin ER is likely to supplant lovastatin IR and provide 
a useful option in the management of patients with dyslipidaemia and prevention 
of coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200363070-00007
PMID: 12656649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Eur J Haematol. 2003 Apr;70(4):219-24. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-0609.2003.00045.x.

Salvage treatment with etoposide (VP-16), ifosfamide and cytarabine (Ara-C) for 
patients with recurrent primary central nervous system lymphoma.

Arellano-Rodrigo E(1), López-Guillermo A, Bessell EM, Nomdedeu B, Montserrat E, 
Graus F.

Author information:
(1)Service of Hematology, Institut de Recerca Biomèdica August Pi i Sunyer, 
Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Survival of patients with primary central nervous system lymphoma 
(PCNSL) has improved with methotrexate-based combination regimens and 
radiotherapy (RT). However, the prognosis of patients who fail or relapse after 
initial response is poor. Very little data is available on salvage treatment at 
recurrence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixteen immunocompetent patients (13 males/three females, 
median age 54 yr) with refractory (one patient) or recurrent (15 patients) 
PCNSL, homogeneously treated at diagnosis with the cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, vincristine, dexamethasone/carmustine, vincristine, cytarabine and 
methotrexate (CHOD/BVAM) and RT regimen, received etoposide (VP-16), ifosfamide 
and cytarabine (Ara-C) (VIA) chemotherapy as a salvage treatment. VIA included 
etoposide 100 mg/m2/d days 1-3, ifosfamide 1000 mg/m2/d days 1-5, and cytarabine 
2000 mg/m2/12 h day 1. The therapy was repeated every 28 d for a total of 
planned six cycles.
RESULTS: Median time between first complete response (CR) and relapse was 19 
months (range: 6-46 months). Thirteen patients (81%) had a performance status 
<or=2, six had multifocal PCNSL and six (of eight tested) positive cerebrospinal 
fluid cytology. The median number of courses per patient was four (range: 1-6). 
Five patients completed the whole VIA therapy. Six patients (37%) achieved CR. 
After a median follow-up of 15 months for surviving patients, two have relapsed, 
with a median failure-free survival of 5 months. Twelve patients have died from 
progression of PCNSL, with a 12-month overall survival of 41% [95% confidence 
interval (CI): 16-66]. The major toxicity was World Health Organization grade 
2-4 neutropenia (69% of patients) and thrombocytopenia (50%). Five patients had 
grade 3-4 infectious complications. Finally, one patient developed a severe but 
reversible ifosfamide encephalopathy.
CONCLUSION: The data presented show that the chemotherapy VIA is an effective 
salvage regimen for patients with recurrent PCNSL.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2003.00045.x
PMID: 12656744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2003 Apr;29(3):244-7. doi: 10.1053/ejso.2002.1419.

Radiofrequency ablation extends the scope of surgery in colorectal liver 
metastases.

Oshowo A(1), Gillams AR, Lees WR, Taylor I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University College, London.

AIMS: To assess outcome in patients treated by a multidisciplinary team, with a 
combination of liver resection and RF ablation.
METHODS: Sixteen unselected patients (f=9; m=7) with colorectal liver metastases 
who were not suitable for surgery alone, were treated as follows: six had RF 
ablation at open laparotomy, three patients had synchronous ablation and 
resection while seven patients had RF ablation after liver resection. Standard 
liver resection techniques were used. RF was performed using internally cooled, 
single or cluster electrodes with a high power (200 W) generator. All patients 
were followed with regular contrast enhanced CT and survival noted.
RESULTS: A total of 27 tumours with diameters 1.2-10 cm were treated. Two minor 
complications were recorded. 2/6 (33%) who had intraoperative RF had incomplete 
ablation due to large tumour size (6 and 10 cm respectively). Further RF 
ablation sessions were carried out successfully. 11/16 (69%) are alive at 2 
years of whom 7 (44%) have no evidence of residual or recurrent liver disease.
CONCLUSION: In our study, RF ablation extends the therapeutic envelope, is an 
effective local treatment of liver metastases and improves life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.2002.1419
PMID: 12657234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Aquat Toxicol. 2003 Apr 10;63(2):103-18. doi: 10.1016/s0166-445x(02)00159-5.

Effects of four synthetic musks on the life cycle of the harpacticoid copepod 
Nitocra spinipes.

Breitholtz M(1), Wollenberger L, Dinan L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Environmental Research (ITM), Stockholm University, 
S-10691, Stockholm, Sweden. magnus.brietholtz@itm.su.se

A full life-cycle (</=26 days exposure) toxicity test with the harpacticoid 
copepod Nitocra spinipes was used to study the effects of one nitro musk (musk 
ketone) as well as three polycyclic musks (Tonalide, Celestolide and 
Galaxolide). A subchronic individual life-table endpoint, the larval development 
rate, was recorded after 7-8 days exposure of juveniles and was significantly 
decreased in copepods exposed to sublethal concentrations of musk ketone, 
Celestolide and Galaxolide. However, none of the Tonalide concentrations had any 
effect on larval development. The lowest Galaxolide concentration (0.02 mg/l), 
which affected juvenile development, was about 100 times below the adult 
96-h-LC(50)-value of 1.9 mg/l (95% confidence interval: 1.4-2.7 mg/l). However, 
none of the four musks had any agonistic or antagonistic activity in the 
ecdysteroid-sensitive Drosophila melanogaster B(II)-cell line. This indicates 
that the decrease in larval development rate was due to pharmacological effects 
rather than steroid receptor-mediated endocrine disruption. A modified 
Euler-Lotka equation was used to calculate a population-level endpoint, the 
intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)), from individual life-table endpoints, 
i.e. mortality rate, time of release of first brood, sex ratio, the fraction of 
ovigerous females among all females as well as the number of nauplii per 
ovigerous female. The second highest musk ketone concentration (0.1 mg/l) was 
the only treatment, which significantly affected r(m) (***P<0.001). At the 
highest musk ketone (0.3 mg/l) and Celestolide (0.3 mg/l) concentrations, all 
copepods were dead at the end of the exposures. This shows that a sensitive 
individual life-table endpoint is protective over the population-level endpoint 
r(m). Though we think that it is necessary to obtain population-level endpoints 
from standardised toxicity test, for ecologically successful risk 
characterisation of synthetic musks as well as other chemicals. The results from 
the present study show that it is possible to obtain population-level data from 
the full life-cycle test with N. spinipes. However, there seems to be little 
risk that synthetic musks are harmful to copepods at present environmental 
concentrations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-445x(02)00159-5
PMID: 12657486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Health Rep. 2003 Feb;14(2):9-19.

Age at diagnosis of smoking-related disease.

Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)East-West Centre, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study assesses the relationship between the age of daily 
smoking initiation and the age at diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD), heart disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
DATA SOURCE: The data are from the 2000/01 Canadian Community Health Survey 
(CCHS). The sample for the analysis consisted of 34,144 respondents aged 35 to 
64 living in private households in the provinces and territories.
ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES: The life table approach was used to estimate the 
cumulative incidence of smoking-related disease. Cox proportional hazards 
regression models were used to estimate the relative risks of disease by the age 
when daily smoking began.
MAIN RESULTS: For both sexes, the younger the individuals were when they became 
daily smokers, the sooner they were diagnosed with COPD, heart disease or 
rheumatoid arthritis. Even when education, household income and number of 
cigarettes smoked per day were taken into account, adolescent starters were at 
increased risk of these diseases, compared with never-smokers.

PMID: 12658861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Braz J Biol. 2002 Nov;62(4B):775-86. doi: 10.1590/s1519-69842002000500006.

The effects of constant and alternating temperatures on the reproductive 
potential, life span, and life expectancy of Anastrepha fraterculus (Wiedemann) 
(Diptera: Tephritidae).

Cardoso VV(1), Ferreira MP, Montagner JM, Fernandez CG, Moreira JC, Oliveira AK.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Biociências, UFRGS, Av. Bento 
Gonçalves, 9500, C.P. 15053, CEP 91501-970, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Ovarian development, oviposition, larval eclosion, ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) 
activity, ovarian, testis and ejaculatory apodeme measurements (length, width, 
and area), and the number of spermatozoa of Anastrepha fraterculus (Wiedemann) 
were analyzed at alternating (20 degrees/6 degrees C and 20 degrees/13 degrees 
C) and constant (6 degrees C; 25 degrees C) temperatures. Life span and life 
expectancy were also analyzed for both genders. All the results suggest that 
temperature, especially alternating temperatures, increase not only male and 
female reproductive potential but also their life span and life expectancy. 
These changes can be a powerful strategy triggered by A. fraterculus as a means 
to survive the stressful temperature conditions found in winter in the apple 
production region in Brazil, enabling this species to increase its population 
density and cause apple damage when spring begins.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842002000500006
PMID: 12659028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Braz J Biol. 2002 Nov;62(4B):819-26. doi: 10.1590/s1519-69842002000500011.
Epub  2003 Feb 17.

Population dynamics of Cosmoclopius nigroannulatus Stal (Hemiptera, Reduviidae) 
in tobacco culture.

Jahnke SM(1), Redaelli LR, Diefenbach LM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fitossanidade, Faculdade de Agronomia UFRGS, Av. Bento 
Gonçalves, 7712, CEP 91540-000, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

The role of predators influencing populations of insects considered as pests is 
extremely important for agroecosystems. The population ecology of Cosmoclopius 
nigroannulatus, a predatory reduvid associated with the tobacco culture was 
investigated aiming to study the population dynamics of adults, along the 
culture cycle. In an experimental plot of approximately 300 m2, in Porto Alegre 
(30 degrees 0'S; 51 degrees 13'W), RS, Brazil, 270 tobacco plants were grown; 
each plant identified by alphanumeric coordinates. Using the 
mark-release-recapture method, daily samplings were done from August to December 
1999, and three times a week from this date until April 2000. The adults were 
captured by hand, marked, sexed and released on the same plant they were 
captured. The individual number and plant coordinate were registered. Population 
estimates were analyzed by the Fisher-Ford method. In 107 sampling occasions, 
604 individuals were marked, 273 males and 331 females. Three generations of C. 
nigroannulatus were registered during the culture cycle. The colonizing 
generation was represented by 14 males and 15 females (a sex ratio of 0.48), the 
first by 109 males and 137 females (0.44) and the second by 150 males and 179 
females (0.46). The estimated daily survival rate varied between generations 
decreasing from 98% in the colonizing generation to 87% in the second. The 
observed longevity or permanence time in the experimental area varied 
significantly among generations, being at about 40 days in the colonizing 
generation, 13 days in the first and 5 days in the second. It was observed that 
as the population increases, the survival and/or permanence time in the area 
decreases, suggesting a relation between this and a decline in the available 
resources probably with an associated increase in intra-specific competition.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842002000500011
PMID: 12659033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. South Med J. 2003 Mar;96(3):264-5. doi: 10.1097/01.SMJ.0000051149.81478.3B.

Lifespan of male attorneys: preliminary findings.

Vieweg WV(1), Dougherty LM, Barfield K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA 23298-0710, USA. vvieweg@hsc.vcu.edu

BACKGROUND: Our objective was to test the hypotheses that trial attorneys have 
shorter lifespans than other attorneys, and that attorneys in general have a 
shortened lifespan compared with the general population.
METHODS: Using obituaries from the Annual Report of the Virginia State Bar, we 
compared the lifespans of male trial attorneys with those of male non-trial 
attorneys. We also compared these findings with the lifespans of males in the 
general population.
RESULTS: For white male attorneys in Virginia, the mean +/- SD age at death was 
66.2 +/- 12.6 years for 250 trial attorneys and 65.0 +/- 12.5 years for 598 
non-trial attorneys. This was not statistically significant. The lifespans of 
both trial and non-trial attorneys exceeded those of the general population.
CONCLUSION: This small preliminary study showed that the occupation of male 
trial attorneys does not shorten their lives, and that male attorneys, in 
general, do not have shortened lifespans compared with the general population.

DOI: 10.1097/01.SMJ.0000051149.81478.3B
PMID: 12659358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Bull Cancer. 2003 Feb;90(2):143-9.

[Economic assessment of adjuvant and palliative chemotherapy in colorectal 
cancer: a review].

[Article in French]

Selke B(1), Lebrun T, Comte S.

Author information:
(1)Cresge, Université catholique de Lille, 60, boulevard Vauban, BP109, 59016 
Lille Cedex. bselkke@cresge.fr

The aim of this study is to perform a review of the literature on economic (or 
medico-economic) studies in the area of chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. 
French and international literature has been reviewed on this topic. Colorectal 
cancer represents a major public health problem due to high mortality, 
prevalence and costs. Up to now chemotherapy can be used at the adjuvant stage 
or at the palliative one. This work provides a synthesis of the main results of 
economic publications devoted to adjuvant and palliative chemotherapies, as well 
as a reflection on the limits frequently associated with such studies.

PMID: 12660133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Transplantation. 2003 Mar 27;75(6):856-63. doi: 
10.1097/01.TP.0000054230.63568.79.

Experience of liver transplantation for incurable alveolar echinococcosis: a 
45-case European collaborative report.

Koch S(1), Bresson-Hadni S, Miguet JP, Crumbach JP, Gillet M, Mantion GA, Heyd 
B, Vuitton DA, Minello A, Kurtz S; European Collaborating Clinicians.

Author information:
(1)Liver Transplant Unit CHU, Besançon, France. skoch@chu-besancon.fr.

BACKGROUND: Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) of the liver is a rare and severe 
parasitic disease. It behaves like a slow-growing liver cancer, and liver 
transplantation (LT) has been proposed in advanced cases since 1985. The aim of 
this retrospective study was to collect all AE transplant cases in Europe, 
analyze the results, and specify the usefulness of LT for this unusual 
indication.
METHODS: A questionnaire was sent to 83 LT centers from July 1996 to December 
1999.
RESULTS: Sixty-five centers responded: 45 AE patients (mean age, 45.8 years) 
underwent an LT procedure at 16 LT centers. The mean interval between diagnosis 
and LT was 5 years. One patient died during the hepatectomy phase. Five-year 
survival was 71%. Five-year survival without recurrence was 58%. The nine early 
deaths were mostly related to bacterial or fungal infections, or both, in 
patients in bad condition when LT was performed. Six patients had a graft AE 
reinfection. Five late deaths were related directly to ongoing AE. In the other 
cases, benzimidazole (BZM) therapy seemed to stabilize AE residues.
CONCLUSIONS: This unique experience indicates that LT is feasible for 
life-threatening AE. Specific management is needed to optimize the results: 
earlier decision for LT in incurable symptomatic biliary AE, pre- and post-LT 
BZM therapy, meticulous pre-LT evaluation to identify extrahepatic extension, 
and an immunosuppressive regimen kept to a minimum.

DOI: 10.1097/01.TP.0000054230.63568.79
PMID: 12660515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2003 Feb;26(2):160-3.

[Epidemiological and angiofluorographic aspects of diabetic retinopathy in 
Senegal].

[Article in French]

De Médeiros-Quénum M(1), Ndiaye PA, Cissé A, Wane A, Diop SN, Ndoye-Roth PA, Ba 
EA, Ndiaye MR, Wade A.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Ophtalmologique, CHU de Dakar, Sénégal.

PURPOSE: Attempting to improve life expectancy among diabetics reveals 
degenerative complications, including diabetic retinopathy (DR) linked to 
microangiopathy. We assessed the incidence of diabetic retinopathy in its 
various forms amongst diabetics in Senegal.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We carried out a survey between March and October 1998. 
The 51 patients surveyed had been affected for more than 5 years. They were 
divided into two groups: insulin-dependent diabetes (IDD) and 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDD). Patients were aged 17-71 and included 27 
IDD and 24 NIDD. Each patient was given both a biological checkup (blood sugar 
level, HBA1c, creatininemy, triglycerides, cholesterol, albuminaria and urinary 
glucose) and an ophthalmological checkup with angiography in fluorescence.
RESULTS: Of the 51 patients studied, 26 presented a progression span of the 
disease of over 10 years. DR was detected in 62 eyes out of 102 (60.78%), with 
37.25% of nonproliferating DR, 17.65% of preproliferating DR, and 5.88% of 
proliferating DR. Maculopathy was detected in 10 eyes (9.80%). Amongst the IDD 
patients, diabetic retinopathy accounted for 57.14% of diabetes, with a 
progression span of less than 10 years, compared to 84.62% for diabetes with a 
progression span of over 10 years. Amongst the NIDD patients, diabetic 
retinopathy accounted for 36.36% compared to 61.54%.
DISCUSSION: Through these results, a connection can be made between diabetic 
retinopathy, the progression span of diabetes, the type of diabetes, and the 
other microangiopathies. We noted a rise in retinopathy that increased with the 
age of diabetes patients and their IDD group.
CONCLUSION: A multidisciplinary support of diabetes ensures early detection of 
diabetic retinopathy; hence the need for closer collaboration between the 
endocrinologist and the ophthalmologist.

PMID: 12660590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Mar 1;147(9):378-81.

[The small epidemiologic transition: further decrease in infant mortality due to 
medical intervention during pregnancy and childbirth, yet no decrease in 
childhood disabilities].

[Article in Dutch]

van der Veen WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Rijksuniversiteit, disciplinegroep Huisartsgeneeskunde, faculteit Medische 
Wetenschappen, Bloemsingel 1, 9713 BZ Groningen. w.j.van.der.veen@med.rug.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Apr 12;147(15):731; author reply 731-2.

The small epidemiologic transition, which started to occur during the 1960s, was 
a continuation of the large epidemiologic transition. The large epidemiologic 
transition concerned a strong increase in the life expectancy as a result of the 
virtual disappearance of mortality during the early life years. During the most 
recent stage of this epidemiologic transition, two types of medical intervention 
in pregnancy and childbirth were introduced: antenatal screening and diagnosis 
followed by selective abortion, and neonatal intensive care for preterm babies. 
These two types of intervention have opposite epidemiologic effects. On the one 
hand these have led to a further decrease in the mortality. Yet, on the other 
hand the prevalence of childhood disabilities has scarcely decreased or has not 
decreased at all, because intensive interventions after childbirth can lead to 
more disabilities occurring in the population than those removed due to 
selective abortion. The small epidemiologic transition has arisen from an 
expansion in knowledge and possibilities to observe and intervene. These have 
indeed led to an increase in options before, during and after pregnancy, but not 
to a reduced morbidity at the start of life.

PMID: 12661454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Mol Cells. 2003 Feb 28;15(1):10-9.

Iron promotes the survival and neurite extension of serum-starved PC12 cells in 
the presence of NGF by enhancing cell attachment.

Hong JH(1), Noh KM, Yoo YE, Choi SY, Park SY, Kim YH, Chung JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Center for Cell Signaling Research, Ewha 
Womans University, Seoul 120-750, Korea.

Delayed death of serum-starved PC12 cells on a poly-L-lysine (PLL) matrix was 
observed, even in the presence of NGF. NGF blocked the apoptotic death of 
attached but not detached cells, which suggests that delayed death may be 
related to cell detachment from the PLL matrix. Iron selectively blocked this 
anoikis-like death by increasing cell attachment. Interestingly, the addition of 
> 10 microM FeCl2 to the culture medium generated gelatinous iron precipitates, 
and the removal of the precipitates abolished the iron effect. Attachment 
experiments using poly-HEMA supported the role of iron precipitates on 
cell-to-matrix adhesion. The expression of integrin beta1, neither N-cadherin 
nor alpha/beta-catenin, was also significantly increased by iron. In addition to 
its effect on cell viability, iron promoted the outgrowth of neurites. Our 
results collectively indicate that iron functions as a necessary co-element for 
NGF by enhancing cell attachment, survival, and neurite extension.

PMID: 12661755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Mol Cells. 2003 Feb 28;15(1):40-7.

CP2 binding to the promoter is essential for the enhanced transcription of 
globin genes in erythroid cells.

Chae JH(1), Kim CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Research Institute for Natural Sciences, College 
of Natural Sciences, Hanyang University, Seoul 133-791, Korea.

We have previously reported that the reduced level of CP2 suppresses the mouse 
alpha- and beta-globin gene expression and hemoglobin synthesis during terminal 
differentiation of mouse erythroleukemia (MEL) cells in vitro [Chae et al. 
(1999)]. As an extension of this study, we demonstrated that human alpha-, 
epsilon-, and gamma- globin genes were also suppressed by the reduced expression 
of CP2 in K562 cells. To address how much CP2 contributes in the regulation of 
globin gene expression, we measured transcriptional activities of the wild type 
alpha-globin promoter and its various factor-binding sites mutants in erythroid 
and nonerythroid cells. Interestingly, CP2 site dependent transcriptional 
activation occurred in an erythroid-cell specific manner, even though CP2 is 
ubiquitously expressed. In addition, CP2 site mutation within the alpha-promoter 
severely suppressed promoter activity in differentiated, but not in 
undifferentiated MEL cells, suggesting that the CP2 binding site is needed for 
the enhanced transcription of globin genes during erythroid differentiation. 
When the human beta-globin locus control region was linked to the 
alpha-promoter, suppression was more severe in the CP2 site mutant in 
differentiated MEL cells. Overall data indicate that CP2 is a major factor in 
the regulation of globin expression in human and mouse erythroid cells, and CP2 
binding to the globin gene promoter is essential for the enhanced transcription 
of globin genes in erythroid differentiation.

PMID: 12661759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Hepatol. 2003 Apr;38(4):499-505. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(02)00388-4.

Sustained response to combination therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C 
who failed to respond to interferon.

Fargion S(1), Bruno S, Borzio M, Battezzati PM, Bissoli F, Ceriani R, Orlandi A, 
Maraschi A, Chiesa A, Morini L, Fracanzani AL, Crosignani A, Fiorelli G, Podda 
M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Ospedale Maggiore IRCCS, Università di 
Milano, Pad Granelli, Via F Sforza 35, 20122 Milan, Italy. 
silvia.fargion@unimi.it

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The best treatment for chronic hepatitis C patients who do not 
respond to interferon is still unknown. Reported rates of response to treatment 
vary as the result of heterogeneous definitions of non-responders and small 
study size.
METHODS: One hundred nineteen hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA-positive 
non-responders to high-dose interferon monotherapy received alpha-interferon, 5 
MU tiw plus oral ribavirin, 1000-1200 mg/day for 48 weeks (Group A, n=74) or 
alpha-interferon, 5 MU daily for 4 weeks, followed by 5 MU tiw plus oral 
ribavirin, 1000-1200 mg/day for 44 weeks (Group B, n=45) according to the 
Institution where they were followed. Persistently normal alanine 
aminotransferase and negative HCV RNA up to 72 weeks from treatment onset 
defined a sustained response.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients discontinued treatment (13 developed anemia, two 
mucositis, one granulocytopenia; two were dropouts), none for serious adverse 
events. There were 24 (20%) sustained responders, with similar final response 
rates in Groups A and B. Sustained response was more frequent in patients aged 
</=40 years (36% vs. 13%; P=0.006) and in those with non-1 genotype (44% vs. 
14%; P=0.002). Among genotype 1 patients, the younger ones showed higher 
response rates (32% vs. 7%; P=0.005). Compared with patients harboring non-1 
genotypes, the odds ratio of being a non-responder was 1.68 (confidence interval 
(CI): 0.53-5.37; P=0.381) in younger genotype 1 patients and 9.53 (CI: 2.84-32; 
P<0.001) in older genotype 1 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic hepatitis C patients who are non-responders to interferon 
monotherapy and infected by non-1 genotypes should undergo re-treatment with 
combination therapy. Treatment should be extended to younger genotype 1 patients 
who are more susceptible to liver disease worsening because of longer life 
expectancy and have a higher probability of being long lasting responders than 
their older counterparts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(02)00388-4
PMID: 12663243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Blood. 2003 Jul 15;102(2):756-62. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2628. Epub 2003
Mar  27.

Graft-versus-host disease after nonmyeloablative versus conventional 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Mielcarek M(1), Martin PJ, Leisenring W, Flowers ME, Maloney DG, Sandmaier BM, 
Maris MB, Storb R.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 Fairview Ave N, D1-100, Seattle, 
WA, 98109-1024, USA. mielcar@u.washington.edu

It is unknown whether the severity, timing, and quality of graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD) may be different after nonmyeloablative as compared with 
myeloablative hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Therefore, GVHD 
incidence, morbidity of skin, liver, and gut, requirements for immunosuppressive 
therapy, and survival were retrospectively analyzed in 44 patients who underwent 
nonablative HSCT and 52 who underwent ablative HSCT (median ages, 56 and 54 
years, respectively). The nonablative transplantation regimen consisted of 
low-dose total body irradiation (TBI), preceded in some patients by fludarabine 
administration and followed in all patients by immunosuppression with 
mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and cyclosporine (CSP). Those who underwent 
myeloablative HSCT were prepared with different TBI- and non-TBI-containing 
regimens and received CSP plus methotrexate or MMF for GVHD prophylaxis. The 
cumulative incidence of grades II-IV acute GVHD was lower after nonablative 
transplantation (64% vs 85%; P =.001), but there were no differences in the 
cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD requiring treatment (73% vs 71%; P =.96). 
Nonablative transplantation was associated with the delayed initiation of 
steroid treatment for GVHD (0.95 months vs 3.0 months; P <.001) and with the use 
of fewer systemic immunosuppressants in the first 3 months after transplantation 
(P </=.04). This corresponded to more prevalent skin and more severe gut 
morbidity 6 to 12 months after nonablative transplantation. Our results show 
that nonablative HSCT is associated with a syndrome of acute GVHD occurring 
after day 100 in many patients. This "late-onset acute GVHD" should be taken 
into consideration in the design of prospective studies comparing GVHD resulting 
from the two types of transplantation procedures.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-08-2628
PMID: 12663454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 Apr;58(4):291-6. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/58.4.b291.

Delayed occurrence of fatal neoplastic diseases in ames dwarf mice: correlation 
to extended longevity.

Ikeno Y(1), Bronson RT, Hubbard GB, Lee S, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Research Service, Audie Murphy VA Hospital (STVHCS), San Antonio, Texas 
78229, USA. ikeno@uthscsa.edu

Ames dwarf mice have drawn much attention in aging research because of their 
marked life extension. Studies demonstrate that some of the physiological 
characteristics of Ames dwarf mice are similar to those of dietary restricted 
mice. Because dietary restriction has been shown to suppress and/or delay the 
occurrence of various age-related diseases, we investigated age-related 
pathological changes in Ames dwarf mice. We observed Ames dwarf mice to have a 
delayed occurrence of presumably fatal neoplastic disease compared with their 
normal siblings. In addition to the delayed occurrence, we found that the 
incidence of presumably fatal adenocarcinoma in lung was significantly lower in 
Ames dwarf mice than for their normal siblings. The delayed occurrence of total 
neoplastic lesions and reduced incidence of adenocarcinoma in lung possibly 
could be attributed to the retardation of tumor development by changes in the 
levels of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1, and thereby be a 
major contributing factor to the extended life span observed in these mice.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/58.4.b291
PMID: 12663691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Health Soc Behav. 2002 Dec;43(4):469-89.

Family relationships, social support and subjective life expectancy.

Ross CE(1), Mirowsky J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Burdine Hall 336, University of Texas, 1 University 
Station A1700, Austin, TX 78712-1008, USA. cross@prc.utexas.edu

Do supportive personal relationships increase subjective life expectancy? The 
objective existence of family relationships and the subjective sense of having 
someone to call on in need may increase the length of life a person expects by 
creating assurance about the future, by reinforcing healthy habits, and by 
improving current health. Using the 1995 Aging, Status, and Sense of Control 
representative sample of 2,037 Americans ages 18-95, we find that having adult 
children and surviving parents increases the length of life one expects, but 
young children in the home does not, and marriage only contributes years of life 
expected for older men. People expect to live longer when they report high 
levels of emotional support, and the association is mediated entirely by the 
perception that one has someone to call on when one is sick. People with 
informal health support expect to live longer than those without it, and this is 
especially true for persons with physical impairments. Although informal health 
practices shape subjective life expectancy, they explain little of the effects 
of supportive relationships. People who smoke, drink heavily, and have poor 
nutritional habits expect shorter lives, and those who walk and exercise expect 
longer lives. Better current health is associated with higher subjective life 
expectancy, but it does not explain the impact of supportive relationships. Most 
of the impact of supportive relationships appears to be a direct result of 
projected security about the future. Feeling that you have someone who would 
care for you if sick appears to increase the sense of security about surviving 
future health crises, thereby increasing one's perceived inventory of the 
essential property--life itself.

PMID: 12664677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Life Sci Space Res. 1970;8:46-50.

Specific problems of physical training of cosmonauts.

Jethon Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Military Institute of Aviation Medicine, Warsaw, Poland.

Physical fitness and--closely related to it--physiological aspects of physical 
condition are very important in the elevation of the tolerance level to harmful 
effects of surrounding factors. To improve the possibilities of withstanding the 
factors of spaceflight, the cosmonauts undergo special training. Among the 
training methods there is a physical training program that is planned in 
relation to the general fitness of the cosmonaut. The following problems will be 
