discussed, based on results obtained by the Polish Institute of Aviation 
Medicine: 1) The specific future of a physical training program. 2) The results 
of physiological research in a specifically elevated tolerance level to hypoxia 
and acceleration. 3) The possibilities of extension of physical training taking 
into account other flight factors.

PMID: 12664917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Apr;41(4):728-32. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00132-x.

Too many patients who are too sick to benefit start chronic dialysis 
nephrologists need to learn to "just say no". Con.

Levinsky NG(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Apr;41(4):723-7.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00132-x
PMID: 12666058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Apr;41(4):776-84. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00025-8.

Outcome of ANCA-associated renal vasculitis: a 5-year retrospective study.

Booth AD(1), Almond MK, Burns A, Ellis P, Gaskin G, Neild GH, Plaisance M, Pusey 
CD, Jayne DR; Pan-Thames Renal Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Addenbrookes's Hospital, Cambs, UK. 
tonybooth1@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Renal involvement is frequently present in antineutrophil 
cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated systemic vasculitis and is an 
important cause of end-stage renal failure (ESRF).
METHODS: This retrospective, multicenter, sequential cohort study reports 
presenting features and outcome of 246 new patients diagnosed in London, UK, 
between 1995 and 2000.
RESULTS: Diagnostic subgroups were microscopic polyangiitis, 120 patients (49%); 
Wegener's granulomatosis (WG), 82 patients (33%); renal-limited vasculitis, 33 
patients (13.5%); and Churg-Strauss angiitis, 11 patients (4.5%). Median age was 
66 years, 57% were men, and median creatinine level at presentation was 3.87 
mg/dL (342 micromol/L). ANCA was present in 92%. Cumulative patient survival at 
1 and 5 years was 82% and 76%, respectively. Mortality was associated with age 
older than 60 years (P < 0.001), development of ESRF (P < 0.001), initial 
creatinine level greater than 2.26 mg/dL (200 micromol/L; P = 0.01), and sepsis 
(P < 0.048). ESRF occurred in 68 patients (28%), of whom 47% died. Fifty-six 
patients who presented with a creatinine level greater than 5.65 mg/dL (500 
micromol/L) survived, and 31 patients (55%) achieved dialysis independence. 
Relapse occurred in 34% after a median of 13 months and was more common in 
patients with WG (P = 0.048) and proteinase 3-ANCA (P = 0.034). Leukopenia 
occurred in 41% and was associated with sepsis (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Mortality and morbidity of ANCA-associated systemic vasculitis are 
improving compared with previous series, but remain high. Renal vasculitis often 
affects older patients, who have a particularly poor outcome. Early diagnosis 
improves outcome. Leukopenia, caused by immunosuppressive therapy, should be 
avoided because of the close association with sepsis and death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00025-8
PMID: 12666064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Apr;41(4):796-806. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00027-1.

Survival by time of day of hemodialysis: analysis of United States Renal Data 
System Dialysis Morbidity and Mortality Waves III/IV.

Abbott KC(1), Reynolds JC, Trespalacios FC, Cruess D, Agodoa LY; United States 
Renal Data System Dialysis Morbidity and Mortality Waves III/IV.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Service, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20307-5001, USA. kevin.abbott@na.amedd.army.mil

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Jul;42(1):213; author reply 213.

BACKGROUND: Whether morning shift hemodialysis is associated with improved 
survival in comparison to patients receiving afternoon shift hemodialysis has 
not been shown for a representative sample of US chronic hemodialysis patients.
METHODS: We conducted a historical cohort study of a national database (US Renal 
Data System Dialysis Morbidity and Mortality Waves III/IV) of 6,939 patients who 
started hemodialysis therapy from January 1, 1990, through December 31, 1993. 
Patients were followed up through April 9, 2000, and censored at the time of 
change to a different modality, including transplantation. We estimated the 
adjusted hazard ratio for all-cause mortality based on the time of day of 
hemodialysis (0500 to 1200 for morning shift, 1200 to 1800 for afternoon shift, 
1800 to midnight for evening shift). Cox regression analysis was used to adjust 
for other factors associated with survival.
RESULTS: For patients aged 60 years and older, the unadjusted 4-year survival 
rate for patients on morning shift hemodialysis was 28.8% versus 24.1% for 
patients on afternoon shift hemodialysis and 38.7% for patients on evening shift 
hemodialysis (P < 0.01 by log-rank test for both versus afternoon shift 
hemodialysis). Both morning shift (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.90; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 0.83 to 0.98; P = 0.02) and evening shift hemodialysis (adjusted 
hazard ratio, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.48 to 0.80; P < or = 0.001) were independently 
associated with a lower risk for mortality compared with afternoon shift 
hemodialysis. No such differences were seen for patients younger than 60 years. 
Both morning shift and evening shift hemodialysis were independently associated 
with improved survival compared with afternoon shift hemodialysis in elderly 
chronic hemodialysis patients. No such association was found for younger 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00027-1
PMID: 12666066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Apr;41(4):814-21. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00029-5.

Effect of hypertension before beginning dialysis on survival of hemodialysis 
patients.

Lucas MF(1), Quereda C, Teruel JL, Orte L, Marcén R, Ortuño J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, Spain. 
mfernandez@hrc.insalud.es

BACKGROUND: The role of hypertension as a predictor of mortality in hemodialysis 
patients is controversial. The purpose of this study is to investigate the 
effect of hypertension before starting hemodialysis therapy on survival of 
patients without diabetes during renal replacement therapy.
METHODS: We reviewed 184 patients starting hemodialysis therapy. Variables 
studied were age, sex, renal disease, hypertension, comorbidity, vascular 
calcifications, left ventricular hypertrophy, body mass index, and albumin, 
cholesterol, and alkaline phosphatase levels. Regarding blood pressure control, 
three groups were considered: normotensive (NH), controlled hypertensive (c-HT), 
and uncontrolled hypertensive (uc-HT).
RESULTS: The Cox model was performed considering all-cause and cardiovascular 
mortality. The model was adjusted for age, sex, serum albumin level, vascular 
calcifications, history of hypertension, and comorbidity. Comorbidity included 
cardiovascular comorbidity. For all-cause mortality, comorbidity and history of 
uncontrolled hypertension were independent risk factors (comorbidity relative 
risk, 1.95; 95% confidence interval, 1.26 to 3.1; P = 0.003; uncontrolled 
hypertension relative risk, 1.79; 95% confidence interval, 1.15 to 2.8; P = 
0.01). For cardiovascular mortality, uncontrolled hypertension was the main risk 
factor (relative risk, 2.93; 95% confidence interval, 1.68 to 5.12; P = 0.000). 
Mortality rates were 7.9/100 patient-years for NH, 8.7/100 patient-years for 
c-HT, and 14.1/100 patient-years for uc-HT patients.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that uncontrolled hypertension in renal patients 
before starting dialysis therapy is a major risk factor for cardiovascular 
mortality during hemodialysis. Because hypertension usually starts in the 
initial stages of renal disease, we emphasize the importance of prompt and 
adequate control of blood pressure in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00029-5
PMID: 12666068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Periodontol. 2003 Feb;74(2):225-41. doi: 10.1902/jop.2003.74.2.225.

Immediate functional and non-functional loading of dental implants: a 2- to 
60-month follow-up study of 646 titanium implants.

Degidi M(1), Piattelli A.

Author information:
(1)Dental School, University of Chieti, Italy. marcodegidi@tin.it

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was the evaluation, from a clinical point of 
view, of implants subjected to immediate functional loading (IFL) and to 
immediate non-functional loading (INFL) in various anatomical configurations.
METHODS: The study included 152 patients who had given their informed consent. A 
total of 646 implants were inserted. The implants were placed in 39 totally 
edentulous mandibles, 14 edentulous maxillae, 23 edentulous posterior mandibles, 
16 edentulous anterior mandibles, 16 edentulous anterior maxillae, and 15 
edentulous posterior maxillae. Fifty-eight implants were used to replace single 
missing teeth. In 65 cases, IFL was carried out for 422 implants. INFL was 
carried out in 116 cases, (224 implants).
RESULTS: In the IFL group 6 of 422 implants failed (1.4%); in the INFL group 2 
of 224 implants failed (0.9%). All the other implants appeared, from clinical 
and radiographic observations, to have successfully osseointegrated and have 
been functioning satisfactorily since insertion. All failures were observed in 
the first few months after implant loading.
CONCLUSION: Immediate functional and non-functional loading seems to be a 
technique that gives satisfactory results in selected cases.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2003.74.2.225
PMID: 12666712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2003 Apr;4(4):533-40. doi:
10.1517/14656566.4.4.533.

Bupropion SR for smoking cessation.

West R(1).

Author information:
(1)St George's Hospital Medical School, Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 0RE, UK. 
r.west@sghms.ac.uk

Cigarette dependence is recognised as a life-threatening disorder which can be 
treated by behavioural support and/or medication. Bupropion hydrochloride 
sustained-release (Zyban trade mark, GlaxoSmithKline) is licensed in many 
countries including the US, Canada, UK, Australia and continental Europe to aid 
smoking cessation. The usual recommended dose is 150 mg b.i.d. taken for 7 - 14 
days prior to the quit date, and then 6 - 8 weeks afterwards (figures vary 
across countries). Evidence from seven double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
randomised trials shows that it improves success at staying off cigarettes for 
at least 12 months by 9 - 10 percentage points. Taking into account estimates of 
subsequent cessation and relapse patterns in treated and untreated smokers, and 
the improvement in life-expectancy of smokers who manage to stop, the estimated 
cost/life/year saved from an episode of use of the medication is approximately 
UK pound 1000 or US$1500. Bupropion has CNS stimulant properties; the common 
side effects are dry mouth and sleep disturbance. Rare but serious side effects 
are anaphylactic/hypersensitivity reaction and seizure (both estimated at 1 in a 
1000). The drug is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to the drug 
or its metabolites, any seizure disorder, eating disorder, severe hepatic 
cirrhosis, history of bipolar disorder or in patients taking monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors. Extreme caution is advised where there are any predisposing factors 
that may reduce the seizure threshold. Bupropion sustained-release and nicotine 
replacement therapies are both considered as first-line treatments to aid 
smoking cessation. Ideally patients should also enrol in a structured 
behavioural support programme to boost their chances of success.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.4.4.533
PMID: 12667116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Urology. 2003 Feb;61(2 Suppl 1):14-24. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)02395-6.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for the management of prostate 
cancer.

Scherr D(1), Swindle PW, Scardino PT; National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, 
New York, USA.

Guidelines for the management of prostate cancer issued by the National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network provide a basis for rational treatment decisions. 
These guidelines represent consensus recommendations by a panel of experts that 
are evidence based and are designated according to the degree of consensus 
within the expert panel. The initial stratification point is the patient's life 
expectancy (>5 or <5 years). If life expectancy is >5 years, the recommended 
intervention is based on clinical stage, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, 
and Gleason score, as well as the presence of symptoms. These assessments 
establish the patient's risk of recurrence after therapy. Specific initial 
therapies are then recommended according to whether the risk category is low, 
intermediate, high, or very high. The guidelines also describe the appropriate 
use of observation ("watchful waiting") versus active intervention in certain 
patients. After definitive therapy, patients should be monitored with PSA 
determinations, digital rectal examination, and bone scans, as outlined in the 
guidelines. Patients who exhibit increasing PSA levels after prostatectomy are 
candidates for salvage therapy with androgen ablation, radiotherapy, or 
observation. If PSA levels begin to increase after radiotherapy, surgery may 
then be an additional option. Systemic salvage therapy generally consists of 
androgen ablation; the benefit of total androgen blockade versus initial 
monotherapy remains controversial. Relapse after initial androgen ablation is 
treated with an antiandrogen, if none had been administered previously. Patients 
refractory to further hormonal manipulations are observed or receive palliative 
therapy, including chemotherapy. The treatment of prostate cancer is complex. 
Optimal treatment is risk-adapted to the specific characteristics of the cancer 
and the expected longevity and personal preferences of the patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(02)02395-6
PMID: 12667883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Cardiovasc Res. 2003 Apr 1;58(1):203-12. doi: 10.1016/s0008-6363(02)00843-x.

VEGF-mediated angiogenesis is impaired by angiotensin type 1 receptor blockade 
in cardiomyopathic hamster hearts.

Shimizu T(1), Okamoto H, Chiba S, Matsui Y, Sugawara T, Akino M, Nan J, Kumamoto 
H, Onozuka H, Mikami T, Kitabatake A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Coronary microcirculation plays an important role in the progression 
of cardiac remodeling. Among angiogenic factors, it has been reported that 
angiotensin II may contribute to neovascularization. However, it is unknown 
whether inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system suppresses angiogenesis, 
especially within the heart. Our aim was to evaluate the effects of the 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and the angiotensin II 
receptor type I blocker valsartan on cardiac microvasculature, function, 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression, and survival in 
cardiomyopathic hamsters.
METHODS: Male cardiomyopathic hamsters (BIO TO2) were administered either a 
placebo (group C), enalapril (30 mg/kg/day) (group E), or valsartan (40 
mg/kg/day) (group V), starting at the age of 6 weeks. This continued until 
death. Hemodynamic study, histological analysis, and northern blot analysis were 
performed at 39 weeks.
RESULTS: Group V showed significant increases in percent fibrosis, end diastolic 
pressure, and LV dP/dt min, and significant decreases in percent fractional 
shortening, LV dP/dt max, capillary density, and the level of mRNA expression of 
VEGF compared with group C. Group E showed significant increases in percent 
fractional shortening while the capillary density and level of mRNA expression 
of VEGF were unchanged. The 300-day survival rate was significantly lower in 
group V (25.0%) but higher in group E (100%) than that of group C (66.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with valsartan may have adverse effects on survival rate 
concomitant with the progression of cardiac remodeling owing to impaired 
VEGF-mediated angiogenesis. Therapy with enalapril has a neutral effect on 
VEGF-mediated angiogenesis, leading to the suppression of cardiac remodeling and 
an increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0008-6363(02)00843-x
PMID: 12667963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Circulation. 2003 Apr 1;107(12):1592-7. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000060544.41744.7C.  Epub 2003 Mar 17.

Dobutamine cardiovascular magnetic resonance for the detection of myocardial 
ischemia with the use of myocardial tagging.

Kuijpers D(1), Ho KY, van Dijkman PR, Vliegenthart R, Oudkerk M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713GZ 
Groningen, The Netherlands. kps@xs4all.nl

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to assess the value of high-dose 
dobutamine cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) with myocardial tagging for 
the detection of wall motion abnormalities as a measure of myocardial ischemia 
in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Two hundred eleven consecutive patients with chest pain 
underwent dobutamine-CMR 4 days after antianginal medication was stopped. 
Dobutamine-CMR was performed at rest and during increasing doses of dobutamine. 
Cine-images were acquired during breath-hold with and without myocardial tagging 
at 3 short-axis levels. Regional wall motion was assessed in a 16-segment 
short-axis model. Patients with new wall motion abnormalities (NWMA) were 
examined by coronary angiography. Dobutamine-CMR was successfully performed in 
194 patients. Dobutamine-CMR without tagging detected NWMA in 58 patients, 
whereas NWMA were detected in 68 patients with tagging (P=0.002, McNemar). 
Coronary angiography showed coronary artery disease in 65 (96%) of these 68 
patients. All but 3 of the 65 patients needed revascularization. In the 112 
patients with a negative dobutamine-CMR study, without baseline wall motion 
abnormalities, the cardiovascular occurrence-free survival rate was 98.2% during 
the mean follow-up period of 17.3 months (range, 7 to 31).
CONCLUSIONS: Dobutamine-CMR with myocardial tagging detected more NWMA compared 
with dobutamine-CMR without tagging and reliably separated patients with a 
normal life expectancy from those at increased risk of major adverse cardiac 
events.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000060544.41744.7C
PMID: 12668491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Endocrine. 2003 Feb-Mar;20(1-2):149-54. doi: 10.1385/ENDO:20:1-2:149.

Body composition of prolactin-, growth hormone, and thyrotropin-deficient Ames 
dwarf mice.

Heiman ML(1), Tinsley FC, Mattison JA, Hauck S, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Labs, Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

Ames dwarf mice have primary deficiency of prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH), 
and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and live considerably longer than normal 
animals from the same line. In view of the documented effects of GH, PRL, and 
thyroid hormones on lean and fat body mass and skeletal growth, and the 
suspected relationship of body size and composition to life expectancy, it was 
of interest to examine age-related changes in body composition of Ames dwarf 
mice. Lean mass, fat mass, bone area, and bone mineral content (BMC) were 
determined in dwarf and normal mice at the ages of 2, 4.5 6, and 18 mo using 
dual X-ray absorptiometry. In addition to the expected significant declines in 
lean mass, bone area, and BMC, dwarf mice exhibited attenuation of the 
age-related increase in bone mineral density and delayed or attenuated increase 
in percentage of body fat. Percentage of body fat was lower in adult dwarfs than 
in the corresponding normal controls. Patterns of age-related changes in body 
composition in Ames dwarf mice are consistent with the recent report of 
age-related changes in body composition in PRL receptor knockout mice. We 
suspect that reduction in relative adiposity may contribute to the previously 
reported increase in insulin sensitivity of Ames dwarf mice and thus may be a 
factor in delayed aging and increased longevity of these animals.

DOI: 10.1385/ENDO:20:1-2:149
PMID: 12668880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Drugs Today (Barc). 2003 Jan;39(1):5-18. doi: 10.1358/dot.2003.39.1.799429.

Trandolapril in left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction: focus 
on the TRACE study.

Coca A(1), Rabasseda X.

Author information:
(1)Unitat d'Hypertensió, Hospital Clinic, Instituto de Investigaciones 
Biomédicas Augusto Pi Suñer (IDIBAPS), Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.

The new angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor trandolapril has been the 
subject of a broad pharmacological and clinical development program. The active 
metabolite, trandolaprilat, has been found to have a high level of affinity for 
angiotensin-converting enzyme. Trandolapril has demonstrated potent ACE 
inhibition, a long plasma half-life and a high degree of lipophilicity. The drug 
has been used to treat patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension and 
congestive heart failure following myocardial infarction. In the former 
patients, a once-daily dosage of trandolapril has produced significant and 
long-lasting reductions in blood pressure and has reduced left ventricular 
hypertrophy. Trandolapril is one of a few ACE inhibitors with a mean trough:peak 
ratio of blood pressure reduction with once-daily administration of over 50%. In 
addition, studies in hypertensive patients have revealed still greater 
reductions in blood pressure when trandolapril is combined with the calcium 
antagonist verapamil. In patients with left ventricular dysfunction after 
myocardial infarction, the large TRACE trial showed that mortality was reduced 
and life expectancy increased with trandolapril treatment.

(c) 2003 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dot.2003.39.1.799429
PMID: 12669106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2002;186(7):1189-207.

[Management of cerebral ischemia in acute phase].

[Article in French]

Amarenco P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurologie et Centre d'Accueil et de Traitement de l'Attaque 
Cérébrale, Hôpital Bichat, 46 rue Henri Huchart, 75018 Paris.

Acute stroke management is becoming a major challenge for the next decades 
because of the increasing life expectancy, and subsequent increase of burden of 
atherosclerotic disease, atrial fibrillation and intracranial small vessel 
disease. New advances in stroke management has been mainly based on the 
development of stroke unit facilities. Stroke centers allow a 
multi-disciplinairy approach of stroke care, involving stroke neurologists, 
neuroradiologists, cardiologists, specialized nurses, physiotherapists, 
occupational therapists, speech therapists, psychologists, social workers, 
etc... Compared to a usual care, treatment in stroke unit avoids 40 deaths, 
allows 50 more patients returning home, and reduces the length of stay by 30%. 
This tremendous benefit is explained by a better knowledge of acute stroke 
complications by the entire stroke team. This allows their prevention, early 
detection, diagnosis and immediate treatment. Early emphasis is also put on 
rehabilitation in stroke units. They also are the right place for using powerful 
treatment but delicate to prescribe such as intravenous thrombolysis. After its 
approval by regulatory agencies in western countries, intravenous thrombolysis 
has a grade 1A recommendation (the highest level of recommendation) by both 
North American and European neurovascular societies. However, after three hours 
of stroke onset, thrombolysis is no longer effective and safe. The real 
challenge for the next years will be to adapt our health systems to increase 
access to care in stroke unit and to thrombolysis, and to develop education 
campaigns directed towards patients, general practitioners and emergency 
physicians to increase their awareness on warning signs of stroke.

PMID: 12669661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2003 Feb;97(1):7-13.

[When do screening interventions make sense?].

[Article in German]

Giersiepen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Bremer Institut für Präventionsforschung und Sozialmedizin (BIPS), Bremen. 
giersiep@bips.uni-bremen.de

The aim of primary prevention is to reduce incidence. Secondary prevention is 
intended to lead to early detection of disease, and tertiary prevention aims to 
prevent reoccurrence of disease. The primary goal of screening is the early 
detection of disease in asymptomatic persons. Detecting disease at an early 
stage (lead time) does not necessarily imply an increase in life expectancy. 
Prior to the implementation of a mass screening programme, its effectiveness 
must have been demonstrated in randomised trials. Screening ought to be used for 
common relevant health problems, an accepted treatment method should be 
available and a recognisable latent or early stage of disease and the test to be 
applied should be acceptable to a broad population (WHO criteria). Examples 
include the ongoing national cancer screening programme and the field of 
occupational health and show that screening programmes do not always follow 
evidence-based criteria.

PMID: 12669684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Public Health Med. 2003 Mar;25(1):8-12. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg003.

Putting the quality into quality-adjusted life years.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

Over recent decades, a great deal of effort has been devoted towards developing 
instruments that can be used to elicit health state values. All of these 
instruments are conceptually very different from one another and all suffer from 
serious inherent biases. In this paper I outline the conceptual foundations and 
empirical limitations of the three principal health state value elicitation 
instruments. Given that the conceptual parameters internalized within an 
instrument influence the elicited health state values, I argue that it is 
necessary to attain a broad agreement on what the appropriate parameters ought 
to be. When the appropriate conceptual parameters have been identified we will 
be in a position to develop the methodology of a single standardized instrument.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg003
PMID: 12669911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Public Health Med. 2003 Mar;25(1):42-6. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg009.

Active life expectancy in people with and without diabetes.

Jagger C(1), Goyder E, Clarke M, Brouard N, Arthur A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, 22-28 
Princess Road West, Leicester LE1 6TP. cxj@le.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to investigate the feasibility of 
monitoring older people's health by measuring active life expectancy among older 
people with and without diabetes using routinely collected primary care data.
METHODS: The study comprised the first five rounds of a routine health 
assessment of those aged 75 years and over belonging to a large Midlands general 
practice (list size 32,500). A nurse carried out the health assessments in the 
participant's home. Being active was defined as the ability to perform (without 
difficulty, help or use of aids) at least six of seven activities of daily 
living (ADLs). Mortality data were collected through the practice register 
together with regular linkage to information from the Office for National 
Statistics. Period health expectancies were calculated for those known or found 
to be diabetic through the health assessments and for non-diabetic individuals.
RESULTS: Calculation of active life expectancies (ALE) was based on 2,474 
persons (212 with and 2,262 without diabetes). At all ages, people with diabetes 
had lower life expectancy and spent fewer years active. The proportion of 
remaining life spent active was, however, similar for both groups at younger 
ages, but by age 85 years people with diabetes spent only 32 per cent of 
remaining life active compared with 42 per cent for those without diabetes.
CONCLUSION: Annual health assessments of the over-75s in primary care together 
with linkage to mortality data provide a feasible method of monitoring older 
people's health, particularly for subgroups at greater risk of disability. At 
Strategic Health Authority or Primary Care Trust level these methods can monitor 
health needs, highlight health inequalities and evaluate intervention 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg009
PMID: 12669917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2003 Mar 14;51(5):1-44.

Deaths: preliminary data for 2001.

Arias E(1), Smith BL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, Department of Health & Human Services, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, 
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data on deaths for the year 2001 in 
the United States. U.S. data on deaths are shown by age, sex, race, and Hispanic 
origin. Death rates for 2001 are based on population estimates consistent with 
the April 1, 2000, census. Data on life expectancy, leading causes of death, 
infant mortality, and deaths resulting from September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks are also presented. For comparison, this report also presents revised 
final death rates for 2000, based on populations consistent with the April 1, 
2000, census.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a large number of deaths comprising 
approximately 98 percent of the demographic file and 92 percent of the medical 
file for all deaths in the United States in 2001. The records are weighted to 
independent control counts of infant deaths and deaths 1 year and over received 
in State vital statistics offices for 2001. Unless otherwise indicated, 
comparisons are made with final data for 2000. For certain causes of death, 
preliminary data differ from final data because of the truncated nature of the 
preliminary file. These are, in particular, accidents, homicides, suicides, and 
respiratory diseases. Populations were produced for the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) under a 
collaborative arrangement with the U.S. Census Bureau. The populations reflect 
the results of the 2000 census. This census allowed people to report more than 
one race for themselves and their household members and also separated the 
category for Asian or Pacific Islander persons into two groups (Asian and Native 
Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander). These changes reflect the Office of 
Management and Budget's (OMB) 1997 revisions to the standards for the 
classification of Federal data on race and ethnicity. Because only one race is 
currently reported in death certificate data, the 2000 census populations were 
"bridged" to the single race categories specified in OMB's 1977 guidelines for 
race and ethnic statistics in Federal reporting, which are still in use in the 
collection of vital statistics data.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate in 2001 for the United States decreased 
slightly from 869.0 deaths per 100,000 population in 2000 to 855.0 in 2001. For 
causes of death, declines in age-adjusted death rates occurred for Diseases of 
heart, Malignant neoplasms, Cerebrovascular diseases, Accidents (unintentional 
injuries), and Influenza and pneumonia. Age-adjusted death rates also declined 
for drug-induced deaths between 2000 and 2001. Age-adjusted death rates 
increased between 2000 and 2001 for the following causes: Alzheimer's disease, 
Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome and nephrosis, Essential (primary) hypertension 
and hypertensive renal disease, and Assault (homicide). The increase in homicide 
was a direct result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The infant 
mortality rate did not change between 2000 and 2001. Life expectancy at birth 
rose by 0.2 years to a record high of 77.2 years.

PMID: 12670054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Eur J Endocrinol. 2003 Apr;148 Suppl 2:S15-20. doi: 10.1530/eje.0.148s015.

Insulin-like growth factor-I: marker for diagnosis of acromegaly and monitoring 
the efficacy of treatment.

Brabant G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Endocrinology, Hannover Medical School, Germany. 
brabant.georg@mh-hannover.de

Acromegaly is caused by chronic excess secretion of growth hormone (GH) and 
resultant persistent elevation in concentrations of insulin-like growth factor-I 
(IGF-I), also called somatomedin-C. A number of diagnostic tests are available 
to support the diagnosis of acromegaly, but those that rely on measurement of 
serum GH concentrations have important limitations. Concentrations of serum 
IGF-I, which is produced principally in the liver and mediates the actions of 
GH, have been shown to correlate with clinical and metabolic markers of disease 
activity. Additionally, normalisation of IGF-I levels in acromegaly is 
associated with the resolution of symptoms and normal life expectancy. Thus, 
serum IGF-I is an important marker of disease activity and a sensitive, 
practical, and reliable measure of integrated GH concentrations in patients with 
acromegaly.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.0.148s015
PMID: 12670296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Chem Biol. 2003 Mar;10(3):197-8. doi: 10.1016/s1074-5521(03)00053-x.

Life extension properties of superoxide dismutase mimics arise from "calorie 
restriction".

Naughton DP(1), Fisher AE.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Science, University of Brighton, Lewes 
Road, Brighton, BN2 4GJ, United Kingdom. d.p.naughton@bton.ac.uk

Manganese-salen superoxide dismutase mimics interfere with the mitochondrial 
electron transport chain by acting as antimetabolites and thus effect "calorie 
restriction," leading to extended lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-5521(03)00053-x
PMID: 12670529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Apr;38(4):361-5. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00245-0.

Have centenarians had younger parents than the others?

Robine JM(1), Cournil A, Henon N, Allard M.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Démographie et Santé, Université de Montpellier I et CRLC, Val d' 
Aurelle, 34298 Montpellier cedex 05, France. robine@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

This work, based on a matched case-control design, tests the assumption that 
centenarians were conceived by parents younger than the parents of individuals 
who had lifespan close to mean life duration. The centenarians are paired with 
controls of the same sex, born at the same place and at the same time in order 
to avoid traditional biases related to mortality peaks or secular trend of 
increase in life expectancy. The parental age at the time of the birth 
registration of 320 centenarians born in France between 1875 and 1890 and 
deceased between 1990 and 1999 is collected, as well as the one of 603 controls 
of the same sex whose births were recorded immediately before or after those of 
the future centenarians on the birth registers of the cities concerned. No 
difference is found between the parental age of parents of centenarians and of 
controls. In particular, no difference is found for females. Recent studies 
showed--from genealogical data--that the life expectancy of a female would be 
much reduced if her father was old at the time of her conception. Our study does 
not indicate a negative effect of a higher paternal age on the longevity of 
daughters.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(02)00245-0
PMID: 12670622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Acad Emerg Med. 2003 Apr;10(4):360-3. doi: 10.1197/aemj.10.4.360.

Health utility measures and the standard gamble.

Garza AG(1), Wyrwich KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Truman Medical Center, University of 
Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine, Kansas City, MO, USA. 
alex.garza@tmcmed.org

Comment on
    Acad Emerg Med. 2003 Apr;10(4):309-14.

DOI: 10.1197/aemj.10.4.360
PMID: 12670850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2003 Apr 2;95(7):507-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/95.7.507.

New Study Questions Marketing of Spiral CT Scanning to Consumers.

Baldwin J.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/95.7.507
PMID: 12671014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Gastroenterol. 2003;38(3):207-15. doi: 10.1007/s005350300038.

Prognostic staging system for hepatocellular carcinoma (CLIP score): its value 
and limitations, and a proposal for a new staging system, the Japan Integrated 
Staging Score (JIS score).

Kudo M(1), Chung H, Osaki Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kinki University School of 
Medicine, 377-2 Ohno-Higashi, Osaka-Sayama 589-8511, Japan.

A clinical staging system for cancer patients provides guidance for patient 
assessment and making therapeutic decisions. It is useful in deciding whether to 
treat a patient aggressively, and in avoiding the overtreatment of patients who 
would not tolerate the treatment or patients whose life expectancy rules out any 
chance of treatment. Clinical staging is also an essential tool for comparison 
between groups in therapeutic trials and for comparison between different 
studies. The current classifications most commonly used for hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) are the Okuda stages, the Child-Pugh staging system, tumor node 
metastasis (TNM) staging, and the Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP) 
score. Among these, the CLIP score is currently the most commonly used 
integrated staging score, including both tumor stage and liver disease stage. 
Although the CLIP score has been well validated by many authors in terms of its 
prognostic value in HCC patients, this score has some problems and limitations 
when applied to currently diagnosed HCC patients, who are diagnosed in the early 
stage of disease. First, the CLIP score can discriminate score 0- to 3-patient 
populations, but it is not able to discriminate score 4- to 6-patient groups. 
Second, the definition of tumor morphology in the best prognostic group is too 
advanced, i.e., uninodular and a tumor extent of less than 50% of the liver. As 
a result, the prognosis of the CLIP system best prognostic group is not so good. 
In other words, this system cannot identify the best prognostic group who would 
benefit from curative and aggressive treatment. Third, nearly 80% of the patient 
population is classified as having a CLIP score of 0-2, as confirmed by many 
studies, which shows poor stratification ability. In contrast, a new staging 
system based on the Liver Cancer Study Group of Japan (LCSGJ), the Japan 
Integrated Staging (JIS) score is currently proposed in Japan. This staging 
system combines Child-Pugh grade (grade A, score 0; grade B, score 1; grade C, 
score 2) and TNM staging by the LCSGJ criteria (stage I, score 0; stage II, 
score 1; stage III, score 2; stage IV, score 3). The stratification ability of 
the JIS scoring system is much better than that of the CLIP scoring system. The 
JIS scoring system also performed better than the CLIP scoring system in 
selecting the best prognostic patient group. The cumulative 10-year survival 
rates of the best prognostic groups in the CLIP staging system (CLIP score 0) 
and JIS staging system (JIS score 0) were 23% and 65%, respectively (P < 0.01). 
All scoring systems arise as a compromise between simplicity and discriminatory 
ability. We confirmed that the JIS score increases predictive efficacy, while 
remaining simple compared with the CLIP score. Because the JIS score is quite 
easily obtained and is objective, we strongly propose it for widespread use as a 
prognostic staging system for HCC in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s005350300038
PMID: 12673442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Support Care Cancer. 2003 Apr;11(4):249-57. doi: 10.1007/s00520-002-0435-3.
Epub  2003 Feb 4.

Pan-European multicentre economic evaluation of recombinant urate oxidase 
(rasburicase) in prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia and tumour lysis 
syndrome in haematological cancer patients.

Annemans L(1), Moeremans K, Lamotte M, Garcia Conde J, van den Berg H, Myint H, 
Pieters R, Uyttebroeck A.

Author information:
(1)HEDM (Health Economics and Disease Management), Brusselsesteenweg 91, 1860, 
Meise, Belgium. lieven.annemans@hedm.be

GOALS: Hyperuricaemia (HU) and tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) are complications of 
acute myeloid/lymphoid leukaemia (AML/ALL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) 
leading to increased morbidity and mortality. The objective was to assess 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) of preventing/treating HU and TLS 
with recombinant urate oxidase, rasburicase (Fasturtec/Elitek).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Incidence and costs of HU and TLS were based on a 
multi-country chart review. Life expectancy at the time of diagnosis was based 
on published survival rates and age at diagnosis. Reductions of HU/TLS following 
treatment with rasburicase were based on clinical trial data.
RESULTS: Prevention with rasburicase appears highly cost-effective in children 
(ICER between Eur 425 and Eur 3054 per life-year saved, LYS). In adults, 
prevention is more cost-effective in NHL and ALL (maximum ICER of Eur 41383 and 
Eur 32126 per LYS). Treatment of established HU/TLS with rasburicase is 
cost-saving in children and highly cost-effective in adults. The results are 
robust in children. In adults, the prevention strategy appears sensitive to the 
risk of HU/TLS.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, rasburicase, in addition to the demonstrated 
clinical benefit, is an economically attractive new option in the treatment of 
HU, both in adults and children. In prevention the drug has an attractive 
economic profile in children, and is cost-effective in adults with ALL and NHL.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-002-0435-3
PMID: 12673464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2003 Jan-Feb;21(1):13-8.

Primary glenohumeral degenerative joint disease: factors predisposing to 
arthroplasty.

Fardet L(1), Messow M, Maillefert JF, Dougados M.

Author information:
(1)Université René Descartes, Hôpital Cochin, Assistence Publique, Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Rheumatology B Department, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the natural history of shoulder osteoarthritis (OA), in 
particular the requirement for arthroplasty over time, and to determine the 
potential predisposing factors for such arthroplasty.
METHODS: In- and out-patients with the diagnosis of OA of the shoulder seen 
between January 1990 and December 1994 were contacted by mail or telephone in 
2000. Evaluation at the time of diagnosis: demographics, clinical and 
radiological data were evaluated at the time of diagnosis. The follow-up 
evaluation consisted of a questionnaire sent to each patient inquiring whether 
they had had recourse to shoulder arthroplasty and, if not, evaluated their 
willingness regarding this surgical approach. For the statistical analysis the 
requirement for arthroplasty over time was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier 
technique. Potential factors predisposing to arthroplasty were determined using 
a Cox-model analysis.
RESULTS: The questionnaire was answered by 72 of the 86 contacted patients. No 
difference was observed in clinical and radiological variables at the time of 
diagnosis between responders and non-responders. The requirement for 
arthroplasty was low (respectively 5% and 13%, 5 and 10 years following the 
onset of the symptoms). Nearly half of the patients who had not undergone 
surgery thought that arthroplasty would have been the treatment of choice to 
improve their quality of life since more than one year at the time of completing 
the questionnaire. Two variables were picked up in the Cox analysis, with a 
probability of shoulder replacement higher in patients with concomitant 
osteonecrosis of the humeral head (p = 0.02) and a non-eccentric glenohumeral OA 
(p = 0.011).
CONCLUSION: The low percentage of patients with arthroplasty over time, together 
with patient perception, suggest underuse of this surgical approach in shoulder 
OA.

PMID: 12673884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Dec;14(6):424-30. doi: 10.1007/BF03327343.

Sex ratios and marital status.

Kinsella K(1), Velkoff VA; U.S. Census Bureau.

Author information:
(1)International Programs Center, Population Division, Census Bureau, 
Washington, DC 20233, USA. kevin.g.kinsella@census.gov

DOI: 10.1007/BF03327343
PMID: 12674483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2002 Dec;14(6):509-15. doi: 10.1007/BF03327352.

Preventive home visits to older people in Denmark: methodology of a randomized 
controlled study.

Vass M(1), Avlund K, Hendriksen C, Andersen CK, Keiding N.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. m.vass@dadlnet.dk

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Preventive home visits were introduced by legislation in 
Denmark in 1998. This ongoing randomized controlled intervention study 
introduces a model where preventive home visits to elderly people are carried 
out in a standardized way, focusing on early signs of disability and on physical 
activity. The study includes general practitioners (GPs) in relevant parts of 
the assessment and endeavors coordinated interdisciplinary follow-up. Our main 
aim was to investigate whether this model gives enhanced active life expectancy, 
but the focus of the present paper is the design of the study.
METHODS: The design was a prospective, controlled, follow-up study conducted 
over a 3-year period (1999-2001) with randomization and intervention at the 
community level, and outcomes measured at an individual level among people 
living in those communities. The study included 17 pairs of intervention and 
control communities (34 in total), including 2104 persons aged 75-80 years in 
the intervention communities (participation rate, 70.8%) and 1956 persons in the 
control communities (p.r. 70.3%). The main outcome measure is change in 
functional ability after 1.5 and 3 years. Other outcomes are mortality, and 
hospital and nursing home admissions. Intervention communities received 
systematic education and written materials; two key representatives from each 
community also attended bi-annual follow-up meetings. Control communities did 
not receive any intervention but were allowed to conduct a preventive program 
completely on their own.
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics were similar in the intervention and control 
communities with regard to size, rural and urban characteristics and geriatric 
services, and the individual characteristics of participating persons living in 
these communities were also comparable. The intervention was well accepted and 
feasible.
CONCLUSIONS: When results become available, the study should reveal the most 
important factors for preventive home visits to elderly people.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03327352
PMID: 12674492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Lakartidningen. 2003 Feb 27;100(9):698-703.

[How long can a life be? Longevity not a matter for health care alone; today a 
host of companies would lure us with remedies said to postpone aging].

[Article in Swedish]

Werkö L.

Studies of changes in longevity address two main questions. Firstly, why does 
life expectancy vary in different parts of the western world? Secondly, what are 
the prospects of human longevity: a life span of no more than 85-90 years on 
average, or the possibility of reaching much higher ages? The study of longevity 
and its relation to changes in social circumstances, health care and the number 
of available general practitioners might be of importance for health care 
planning. Sweden has a special responsibility to use its unique system of health 
statistics for such studies. The increase in longevity has inspired many 
scientists to try to commercialize the results of their studies in various 
models, and to sell products that are supposed to prolong life. "Science of 
longevity medicine" is a concept from which serious researchers want to distance 
themselves.

PMID: 12674556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Int J Prosthodont. 2003 Jan-Feb;16(1):25-30.

Statistical outcome of random versus selected withdrawal of dental implants.

Herrrmann I(1), Lekholm U, Holm S.

Author information:
(1)MediTeam Dental, Sävedalen, Sweden. irene.herrmann@mediteam.com

PURPOSE: When performing clinical trials, missing data from withdrawn patients 
should be evaluated differently, depending on the reason for the withdrawal of 
the patients. The question is, if a certain type of patient drops out, will that 
affect the result? Could a randomly selected sample of a study population be 
used for analyses instead of evaluating each and every patient? The purpose of 
this study was to answer these questions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Detailed information on 1,738 implants in 487 patients 
was pooled together in a new database and used for statistical evaluations. 
Random or selected withdrawals were pulled from the database. Chi-squared tests 
were used for significance tests, and lifetables were used for survival 
analysis.
RESULTS: There was a difference in the outcome depending on whether the 
withdrawals were randomly chosen or selected. Random withdrawals could 
represent, in this study, as much as 50% of the included patients without 
changing the statistical results. If selected withdrawals were based on which 
jaw was treated, the statistical outcome did change, but it did not change if 
withdrawals were based on gender or age.
CONCLUSION: Evaluation of reasons for withdrawals and withdrawn patient 
characteristics are of utmost importance when evaluating clinical trials. A 
randomly selected sample of the entire population could, however, be expected to 
give the same statistical value as the entire group, if the original material 
were large enough. Therefore, the use of study samples may more easily enable 
clinicians to do follow-up investigations.

PMID: 12675451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2003 Apr;17(2):213-35. doi: 
10.1016/s1521-6918(02)00150-6.

Transition of care between paediatric and adult gastroenterology. Cystic 
fibrosis.

Jackson R(1), Pencharz PB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Division of GI/Nutrition, The Hospital for Sick 
Children, University of Toronto, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ont., Canada 
M5G 1X8.

Advancement in treatment has resulted in a dramatic increase in life expectancy 
of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) to well beyond 30 years of age in most 
centres. What was once a fatal genetic disease in childhood now sees over a 
third of its CF populations in adult clinics. The improved survival is 
multifactorial, but most attribute the reasons to more aggressive nutritional 
care along with better management of the gastrointestinal and pulmonary systems. 
Many of the nutritional and GI issues of paediatric patients remain similar when 
they become adults, except that there is the added psychosocial stress 
associated with this transition. This chapter aims to highlight the 
gastrointestinal and nutritional issues manifesting at the different stages of 
life from infancy to adulthood, and the recommended management.

DOI: 10.1016/s1521-6918(02)00150-6
PMID: 12676116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2003 Apr;81(1):83-92. doi:
10.1016/s0020-7292(03)00072-9.

A cost effective small hospital in Bangladesh: what it can mean for emergency 
obstetric care.

