McCord C(1), Chowdhury Q.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit, Gonoshasthaya Kendra Health Project, Savar, Bangladesh. 
cwm1@columbia.edu

Mortality has improved dramatically in most of South Asia as a consequence of 
modest economic improvement, better nutrition and a combination of health 
education, immunization, family planning and home treatment of certain common 
diseases, especially diarrhea and respiratory infections. However, death rates 
are still much higher than in parts of the world with fully developed health 
services and residual mortality is largely due to conditions which require very 
basic hospital services such as surgery for complications of pregnancy, 
infections and trauma, transfusion, intravenous fluids, oxygen and intensive 
antibiotics. All of these can be made available in very simple and 
unsophisticated hospital facilities. It has generally been assumed that the cost 
of such facilities would be high, and cost effectiveness much less than that of 
preventive, educational and home care programs. In 1995, our 50 bed hospital in 
rural Bangladesh had a cost per patient-day of 525 Bangladesh Takas (US dollars 
13.15) and a cost per capita for the population served of 25 Takas (US dollars 
0.62) per year. Every month 180 patients were admitted, one-third with clearly 
life-threatening or disabling conditions which could be successfully treated in 
such a facility. We adapted the Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) method of 
cost effectiveness analysis to calculate the DALYs (years of disability-free 
life) preserved for individual patients during a 3-month period, using what we 
considered to be very conservative estimates of the threat to life and the 
efficacy of treatment. The total cost of all hospital activities over the 3 
months was divided by the sum of the DALYS for those patients who were 
successfully treated for clearly life threatening or disabling conditions, to 
give a cost per DALY of 437 Takas (US dollars 10.93). This compares favorably 
with estimates by others of a cost per DALY of US dollars 30 for measles 
immunization, 20 for acute lower respiratory infection detection and home 
treatment, or 2 for tetanus immunization of pregnant women. Sixty-two percent of 
the DALYS saved came from emergency obstetric care (EmOC) related activities. We 
conclude that cost effective basic hospital service can be added to 
immunization, family planning and other basic health services now available in 
countries like Bangladesh with a very low increase in total cost and that the 
benefits which would accrue, particularly for maternal and perinatal mortality, 
would be great.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(03)00072-9
PMID: 12676406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Environ Health Perspect. 2003 Apr;111(4):421-5. doi: 10.1289/ehp.5698.

Inequalities in health: the value of sex-related indicators.

Benigni R(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Toxicology and Ecotoxicology, Istituto Superiore di 
Sanità, Rome, Italy. rbenigni@iss.it

My laboratory has previously shown that the sex differences in tumor incidence 
in Europe can be related to the female social condition and that the pattern of 
this relationship varies according to the different historical contexts. In this 
article, I have extended the study worldwide to all cancer registries, and I 
present the sex differences in life expectancy at birth. A close link between 
the health of the populations and socioeconomic and cultural factors was 
confirmed. The sex-related indicators had a distribution independent from the 
parent variables cancer incidence and life expectancy; thus, they carry 
complementary information and provide an additional, sensitive probe for 
monitoring the health of the populations.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.5698
PMCID: PMC1241422
PMID: 12676593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Neurologia. 2003 Apr;18(3):149-57.

[Leukoaraiosis. Clinical importance and prognosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Valencia C(1), Marti-Fàbregas J, Belvis R, Martí-Vilalta JL.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Enfermedades Vasculares Cerebrales, Servicio de Neurología, 
Hospotal de la Santa Creu i Sant pau Universitad Autónoma de Barcelona, Spain. 
cvalencia@hsp.santpau.es

Advance in the health care systems, in medical knowledge and improvements in 
quality of life have contributed to the fact that life expectancy of the persons 
in developed countries exceeds 80 years of age. This has made it possible to 
observe the increase in frequency of common diseases of the elderly, one of the 
most relevant of which is dementia. The two most frequent etiologies of dementia 
are the degenerative one, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as the main cause, and 
those of vascular etiology or vascular dementia, within which subcortical 
arteriosclerotic encephalopaty or Binswanger's disease (BD) are found with low 
prevalence. Since, on one hand, diagnosis of the dementias is not enough or 
definitive by clinical means, and on the other hand, the pathological diagnosis 
does not modify the evolution of disease, emphasis is presently placed on 
diagnosis by neuroimaging studies. In recent years, with the coming of the 
computerized tomography (CT) and the magnetic resonance (MR), it has been 
possible to observe lesions in the white matter of the brain hemisphere in 
patients with these two etiologic groups of dementias, that is, degenerative and 
vascular, as well as in elderly patient without cognitive deterioration, with or 
without vascular risk factors.

PMID: 12677481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Pediatr Surg. 2003 Apr;38(4):590-3. doi: 10.1053/jpsu.2003.50128.

Prophylactic oral antibiotics in prevention of recurrent cholangitis after the 
Kasai portoenterostomy.

Bu LN(1), Chen HL, Chang CJ, Ni YH, Hsu HY, Lai HS, Hsu WM, Chang MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMZ) and neomycin as the prophylactic agents 
against the recurrence of cholangitis in children with biliary atresia (BA) 
after a Kasai portoenterostomy.
METHODS: Nineteen BA patients aged 0 to 2 years, who had one episode of 
cholangitis after a Kasai portoenterostomy, were recruited in this study. 
Patients were assigned randomly into 2 groups: one (9 cases) with TMP/SMZ (TMP 4 
mg/kg/d and SMZ 20 mg/kg/d, divided in 2 doses) and the other (10 cases) with 
neomycin (25 mg/kg/d, qid, 4 days a week). Another 18 BA patients aged 0 to 2 
years, with cholangitis but not put on long-term prophylaxis, served as the 
historical control group.
RESULTS: The mean prophylactic periods were 14.6 months and 14.7 months in the 
TMP/SMZ and neomycin groups. Patients who received prophylaxis with either 
TMP/SMZ or neomycin had lower recurrence rates of cholangitis than those in the 
control group (P =.042 and.011). There was no difference in the recurrence rates 
of cholangitis between the TMP/SMZ and neomycin groups (P =.641). The survival 
rates were higher in the TMP/SMZ and neomycin groups than in the control group 
(P =.09 and.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Use of TMP/SMZ or neomycin is effective as a prophylactic agent 
against the recurrence of cholangitis after the Kasai portoenterostomy, but 
there is no difference in efficacy between these 2 regimens.

Copyright 2003, Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/jpsu.2003.50128
PMID: 12677572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Urol Nurs. 2003 Feb;23(1):54-61.

Incontinence in women: effect of expectancy to regain control and severity of 
symptoms on treatment outcomes.

Krause C(1), Wells T, Hughes S, Brink C, Mayer R.

Author information:
(1)Aurora Health Care, Milwaukee, WI, USA.

Urinary incontinence (UI) is a common problem for women of all ages. Associated 
with poor self-reported health, UI may have a negative effect on women's 
lifestyle and quality of life. Because UI is not commonly discussed between 
women or between women and their care providers, the extent of its impact on 
their lives is not fully understood. This study provides insight into how a 
woman's perceived or subjective opinion of the severity of UI and her belief in 
the ability to regain control of UI influence the effectiveness of treatment.

PMID: 12677720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Vasa. 2003 Feb;32(1):22-5. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526.32.1.22.

Femoral-anterior tibial reconstructions using cuffed PTFE grafts: routing 
alternatives.

Lazarides MK(1), Tzilalis VD, Georgiadis GS, Georgopoulos SE, Arvanitis DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Demokritos University of Thrace, 
Alexandroupolis, Greece. mlazarid@med.duth.gr

BACKGROUND: The anterior tibial is the less often used artery for distal 
anastomosis in infrapopliteal bypass with synthetic grafts; however, several 
investigators argue against even an attempt to use non-autologous material for 
such distal reconstructions. Only few studies report patency rates mixing-up 
popliteal below-knee and various crural bypasses.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Nineteen consecutive femoral-anterior tibial cuffed PTFE 
bypass grafts, either via the lateral (n = 15) or interosseous (n = 4) route, 
were inserted in a 10-years period.
RESULTS: The 1-year and 2-year primary patency rate was 71% and 53%, 
respectively. It is noteworthy that in one patient a graft positioned via the 
lateral route remained patient for ten years. No complications were observed 
regarding the routing methods, whatever increased operating time was required in 
the interosseous route cases. The 3-year cumulative survival rate for this 
particular group of patients was 32%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that femoral-anterior tibial bypasses using 
cuffed PTFE grafts via the lateral route result in an acceptable medium-term 
patency. As such patients have a limited life expectancy, these procedures 
should be performed when an autologous vein is not available, as opposed to 
primary amputation.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526.32.1.22
PMID: 12677761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Recenti Prog Med. 2003 Apr;94(4):149-53.

[HIV disease, antiretroviral treatment and the liver--emerging problems].

[Article in Italian]

Manfredi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica Specialistica e Sperimentale, Sezione di 
Malattie Infettive, Università degli Studi di Bologna Alma Mater Studiorum, 
Azienda Ospedaliera di Bologna, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna. 
manfredi@med.unibo.it

Both HIV disease and chronic HBV and HCV hepatitis recently benefited by 
significantly improved combination antiviral treatments, which, led to a 
remarkably increased life expectancy, and reduced morbidity and mortality rates 
of these potentially life-threatening disorders. However, many problems still 
wait definite solutions. Among them, the liver toxicity expected from 
administration of complex antiviral regimens (especially when co-infection is of 
concern), potential drug-drug interactions, the still unknown pathogenetic 
connections with the broad spectrum of metabolic abnormalities complicating 
long-term antiretroviral treatment, and the expected outcome of these issues on 
clinical management, therapeutic monitoring, and disease prognosis.

PMID: 12677783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2002 Nov-Dec;29(3):418-32. doi: 10.1006/bcmd.2002.0596.

Penetrance of hemochromatosis.

Waalen J(1), Felitti V, Gelbart T, Ho NJ, Beutler E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, Scripps Research 
Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

We undertook a three-year screening program for mutations of the HFE gene among 
41,000 subjects attending the Kaiser Permanente Health Appraisal Center in San 
Diego, California. Our results show that the C282Y and H63D mutations of the HFE 
gene associated with hemochromatosis have measurable and consistent effects on 
iron indicators and are associated with liver disorders, but have no measurable 
effect on other iron overload-related symptoms and life-expectancy. The very low 
clinical penetrance of the HFE mutations must be taken into account in 
calculating cost/benefit and risk/benefit ratios in screening for 
hemochromatosis.

DOI: 10.1006/bcmd.2002.0596
PMID: 12678056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Soc Philos Policy. 2002 Summer;19(2):212-45. doi: 10.1017/s0265052502192090.

The distribution of life-saving medical resources: equality, life expectancy, 
and choice behind the veil.

Stein MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Political Science, Yale University, USA.

DOI: 10.1017/s0265052502192090
PMID: 12678088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Soc Philos Policy. 2002 Summer;19(2):246-70. doi: 10.1017/s0265052502192107.

Pharmacogenetic interventions, orphan drugs, and distributive justice: the role 
of cost-benefit analysis.

Rai AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Law, University of Pennsylvania, USA.

DOI: 10.1017/s0265052502192107
PMID: 12678089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. East Afr Med J. 2002 Dec;79(12):658-64. doi: 10.4314/eamj.v79i12.8674.

Biomedical challenges of human senescence: a review.

Tumbo-Oeri AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Unit, Department of Biochemistry, College of Health Sciences, 
University of Nairobi, P.O. Box 30197, Nairobi, Kenya.

OBJECTIVE: To summarise and discuss the progress made in the study of human 
senescence over the past one hundred years and assess the achievements to date.
DATA SOURCES: Published original research and reviews during the past one 
hundred years.
STUDY SELECTION: The summary focused on those contributions that tested the 
various hypotheses that attempt to identify and explain the factors that are 
involved in the ageing process.
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Online and manual library searches provided a 
body of data on which the summaries and discussions were based. Specific 
questions were addressed: Why does ageing occur? What are the key mechanisms? To 
what extent are genetic and environmental factors involved in the ageing 
process? How does the immune system behave during ageing and especially against 
infectious agents? Answers to these questions were discussed against the 
background of major improvements in life expectancy in most parts of the world 
except for sub-Saharan Africa where the HIV/AIDS pandemic has reversed the 
trend.
CONCLUSION: Biological and clinical studies over the past century clearly 
reflect a better understanding of the major factors involved in human 
senescence. It is appreciated that human life expectancy has improved 
dramatically over the period through achievements in public health, therapy, 
nutrition and general living standards. A great deal remains to be done through 
multidisciplinary research before the quality of life can be improved further.

DOI: 10.4314/eamj.v79i12.8674
PMID: 12678450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2003 Apr;25(4):282-5. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-200304000-00003.

Cyclooxygenase-2 expression does not correlate with outcome in osteosarcoma or 
rhabdomyosarcoma.

Dickens DS(1), Kozielski R, Leavey PJ, Timmons C, Cripe TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine if expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, an inducible 
enzyme with known tumor-promoting activity, correlates with outcome in pediatric 
sarcomas. COX-2 overexpression correlates with more aggressive disease in a 
variety of adult solid tumors.
METHODS: Archived human osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and Ewing sarcoma tumors 
were retrospectively evaluated, blinded to outcome, for COX-2 expression by 
immunohistochemistry and correlated with patient characteristics and survival.
RESULTS: COX-2 expression was detected in 94 of 142 (66%) tumors (osteosarcoma, 
66/99 [67%]; rhabdomyosarcoma, 21/35 [60%]; Ewing sarcoma, 7/8 [88%]) and 51 of 
85 (60%) diagnostic biopsies (osteosarcoma, 26/45 [58%]; rhabdomyosarcoma, 21/35 
[60%]; Ewing sarcoma, 4/5 [80%]). COX-2 expression did not vary with 
clinicopathologic features and was not predictive of prognosis in these cases.
CONCLUSIONS: This study does not support the use of COX-2 expression as an 
upfront prognostic variable in patients with osteosarcoma or rhabdomyosarcoma. 
Results from the small number of patients studied with Ewing sarcoma suggest a 
similar lack of predictive value for COX-2 expression. However, COX-2 inhibitors 
are not entirely dependent upon enzyme expression for their antitumor effects; 
this study does not necessarily preclude the use of COX-2 inhibitors for the 
treatment of pediatric sarcomas.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-200304000-00003
PMID: 12679640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Intern Med J. 2003 Apr;33(4):195-202. doi: 10.1046/j.1445-5994.2003.00369.x.

Humanism and the suffering of the people.

Mackay IR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. ian.mackay@med.monash.edu.au

Abstract Humanism includes, among its many contexts, the ideal of the universal 
perfection of health. Procedures for alleviation of disease existed through all 
epochs of human history, but efficacy was mostly lacking. The prototypic 
humanism of the Renaissance (ad 1300-1600) scarcely involved the medical 
-sciences other than human anatomy. The Enlightenment of the seventeenth century 
included discovery of the circulation of the blood, and applications of 
microscopy. Discoveries relevant to medical practice began in the nineteenth 
century, ushered in by vaccination and the germ theory of disease. This 200-year 
period saw a transformation of human health according to the surrogate marker of 
increased life--expectancy. This has been variously attributed to: (i) increased 
prosperity following the industrial revolution, (ii) efforts of humanistic 
social and public health reformers and, more recently, (iii) advances in medical 
science. Yet the beneficiaries remain a minority of the world's population. The 
nexus between poverty, illness and low life-expectancy between and within 
nations is the major challenge for the future. Contemporary science is providing 
ever-expanding knowledge on means to achieve the goal of perfection of human 
health, but the need for humanism is as great as at any previous age. 
Fortunately, however, the targets are more clearly visible than during the 
periods of poverty, plagues and pestilence of the past.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1445-5994.2003.00369.x
PMID: 12680988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Med Clin (Barc). 2003 Mar 29;120(11):426-34. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(03)73726-9.

[Oral manifestations of HIV infection].

[Article in Spanish]

Bascones A(1), Serrano C, Campo J.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Odontología. Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Madrid. España. 
antbasco@odon.ucm.es

Oral manifestations of HIV infection are sometimes the first sign of the disease 
and often indicate its progression to acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS), thus it is important for health professionals (physicians and dentist) 
to possess adequate knowledge of these lesions. Improvements in antiretroviral 
treatments, especially with the incorporation of HAART therapy, have produced a 
gradual reduction in the prevalence of HIV-associated oral lesions. On the other 
hand, the increased life expectancy of HIV-positive patients has led to their 
greater presence at our clinics, implying the need for continuous updating in 
the diagnosis and treatment of these processes. Using the consensus 
classification (EEC-Clearinghouse, 1993) we reviewed the diagnostic criteria and 
current treatment protocols for the different HIV infection related oral lesions 
in both adults and children.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(03)73726-9
PMID: 12681223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Dis Colon Rectum. 2003 Apr;46(4):441-7. doi:
10.1097/01.DCR.0000059657.64526.B6.

Melanoma metastatic to the colon: case series and review of the literature with 
outcome analysis.

Tessier DJ(1), McConnell EJ, Young-Fadok T, Wolff BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic 
Scottsdale, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA.

PURPOSE: Symptomatic melanoma of the colon is rare. The aim of this study was to 
determine the incidence, presenting signs and symptoms, and survival 
correlation.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed of all patients treated in Mayo 
Clinic facilities from 1960 to 2000 for primary and metastatic melanoma. We 
identified 24 patients with metastatic melanoma to the colon.
RESULTS: There were 24 patients (14 males) with an average age of 60.4 years at 
the time of metastatic involvement. The interval time between diagnosis of the 
primary and metastatic disease to the colon was 7.47 years. The most common 
presentation was bleeding. Colonoscopy was used in 11 patients and diagnostic in 
9. Eighteen patients underwent resection, and seven patients had positive nodes. 
The average time until death after operation was 27.5 months (range, 30 days to 
65 months). Nonoperative candidates died within 7.8 months after diagnosis. 
One-year and five-year survival for resected patients were 37 and 21 percent, 
respectively. Patients with negative nodes had an average survival time of 34.7 
months compared with 20.4 months in patients with positive nodes. Perforation 
and bowel obstruction directly correlated with poor survival, with an average 
life expectancy of ten months (P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Metastatic melanoma of the colon is rare. Segmental resection is 
justified and can be successfully completed in 95 percent of patients who 
undergo attempted resection. Survival of less than ten months is most accurately 
predicted by signs and symptoms of obstruction or perforation at presentation (P 
= 0.03).

DOI: 10.1097/01.DCR.0000059657.64526.B6
PMID: 12682534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Br J Nurs. 2003 Mar 27- Apr 9;12(6):359-63. doi:
10.12968/bjon.2003.12.6.11243.

Management of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes in adolescence.

Azzopardi K(1), Lowes L.

Author information:
(1)Children's Centre, University Hospital of Wales.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) and type 1 diabetes are two of the most common chronic 
childhood conditions in the UK; the management of each comprises demanding and 
perpetual daily regiments. As the life expectancy of patients with CF has 
improved, there has been a corresponding increase in the number of patients 
developing CF-related diabetes (CFRD), some of whom are teenagers. For a number 
of reasons, non-adherence to treatment is a recognized problem in chronically 
ill teenagers, a problem exacerbated when CF and diabetes co-exist. There is a 
scarcity of literature concerning CFRD management, particularly in relation to 
adolescence, with recommendations often being based on anecdotal evidence. In 
this article, the aetiology, incidence, diagnosis and management of CFRD are 
outlined. Chronic illness in adolescence and the problem of non-compliance are 
explored and considered in the context of CFRD. Recommendations for practice for 
health professionals caring for teenagers with CFRD are offered.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2003.12.6.11243
PMID: 12682587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Leukemia. 2003 Apr;17(4):691-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402879.

Perspectives on the treatment of chronic phase and advanced phase CML and 
Philadelphia chromosome positive ALL(1).

Schiffer CA(1), Hehlmann R, Larson R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State 
University School of Medicine, Harper Hospital, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) is a malignant disease of the bone marrow 
characterised by the presence of the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. About 20% of 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) patients also show this genetic abnormality. 
A new drug, imatinib (Glivec, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland, and 
formerly STI571) is having a profound effect on the treatment and management of 
all stages of CML and Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) ALL. New treatment 
algorithms are being developed. Should imatinib replace or be combined with 
existing therapies? To address this question, we review the pros and cons of 
therapy with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), allogeneic transplantation, 
autologous transplantation, imatinib, and in the case of Ph+ ALL, chemotherapy 
and experimental approaches. Conservative and aggressive treatments will be 
discussed and new molecular methods of monitoring cytogenetic response and their 
significance will also be reviewed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402879
PMID: 12682626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Leukemia. 2003 Apr;17(4):731-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402871.

Characteristics of t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with additional 
chromosomal abnormality: concomitant trisomy 4 may constitute a distinctive 
subtype of t(8;21) AML.

Nishii K(1), Usui E, Katayama N, Lorenzo F 5th, Nakase K, Kobayashi T, Miwa H, 
Mizutani M, Tanaka I, Nasu K, Dohy H, Kyo T, Taniwaki M, Ueda T, Kita K, Shiku 
H.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Mie University School of Medicine, 
Tsu, Japan.

Comment in
    Leukemia. 2003 Sep;17(9):1915; author reply 1915-6.

t(8;21)(q22;q22) is the most frequently observed karyotypic abnormality 
associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), especially in FAB M2. Clinically, 
this type of AML often shows eosinophilia and has a high complete remission rate 
with conventional chemotherapy. t(8;21) AML is also frequently associated with 
additional karyotypic aberrations, such as a loss of the sex chromosome; 
however, it is unclear whether these aberrations change the biological and 
clinical characteristics of t(8;21) AML. To investigate this issue, 94 patients 
with t(8;21) AML were categorized according to their additional karyotypic 
aberrations, which were detected in more than three cases, and then morphologic 
features, phenotypes, expression of cytokine receptors, and clinical features 
were compared to t(8;21) AML without other additional aberrant karyotypes. 
t(8;21) AML with loss of the sex chromosome and abnormality of chromosome 9 were 
found in 27 cases (29.3%) and 10 cases (10.6%), respectively; however, no 
differences were observed from the t(8;21) AML without other additional 
karyotypes in terms of morphological and phenotypic features. There was also no 
significant difference in the clinical outcome among these three groups. On the 
other hand, trisomy 4 was found in three cases (3.2%) and these cells showed low 
expressions of CD19 (P=0.06) and IL-7 receptor (P=0.05), and high expressions of 
CD33 (P=0.13), CD18 (P=0.03), and CD56 (P=0.03) when compared to t(8;21) AML 
without additional karyotypes. Moreover, all three t(8;21) AML cases with 
trisomy 4 did not show eosinophilia in their bone marrow and died within 2.4 
years. These observations suggest that additional karyotypic aberration, t(8;21) 
with trisomy 4 is rare, but it may constitute a distinctive subtype of t(8;21) 
AML.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402871
PMID: 12682630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Leukemia. 2003 Apr;17(4):775-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402866.

Thalidomide as initial therapy for early-stage myeloma.

Rajkumar SV(1), Gertz MA, Lacy MQ, Dispenzieri A, Fonseca R, Geyer SM, Iturria 
N, Kumar S, Lust JA, Kyle RA, Greipp PR, Witzig TE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.

Comment in
    Leukemia. 2003 Nov;17(11):2237-8; author reply 2238.

Patients with early-stage myeloma are typically observed without therapy until 
symptomatic disease occurs. However, they are at high risk of progression to 
symptomatic myeloma, with a median time to progression of approximately 1-2 
years. We report the final results of a phase II trial of thalidomide as initial 
therapy for early-stage multiple myeloma in an attempt to delay progression to 
symptomatic disease. In total, 31 patients with smoldering or indolent multiple 
myeloma were studied at the Mayo Clinic. Two patients were deemed ineligible 
because they were found to have received prior therapy for myeloma, and were 
excluded from analyses except for toxicity. Thalidomide was initiated at a 
starting dose of 200 mg/day. Patients were followed-up monthly for the first 6 
months and every 3 months thereafter. Of the 29 eligible patients, 10 (34%) had 
a partial response to therapy with at least 50% or greater reduction in serum 
and urine monoclonal (M) protein. When minor responses (25-49% decrease in M 
protein) were included, the response rate was 66%. Three patients had 
progressive disease while on therapy. Kaplan-Meier estimates of progression-free 
survival are 80% at 1 year and 63% at 2 years. Major grade 3-4 toxicities 
included two patients with somnolence and one patient each with neuropathy, 
deep-vein thrombosis, hearing loss, weakness, sinus bradycardia, and edema. 
Thalidomide has significant activity in early-stage myeloma and has the 
potential to delay progression to symptomatic disease. This approach must be 
further tested in randomized trials.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2402866
PMID: 12682636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2002 Dec;13(12):1642-4.

[Life table of natural population of banana pseudostem weevil, Odoiporus 
longicollis Oliver, in spring].

[Article in Chinese]

Lu Y(1), Liang G, Zeng L.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Insect Ecology and Toxicology, Chinese Ministry of 
Agriculture, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642. 
yongyuelu@sohu.com

The active factor life tables of natural population of banana pseudostem weevil 
were built, and the controlling effect of active factors was evaluated by using 
exclusion index of population control (EIPC). The results showed that the 
population trend indices in growing and harvested banana trunks were 4,3481 and 
3,6628, and the EIPC of predation and others were 1,9256 and 2,3577, 
respectively. The EIPC of natural death were 1,3607 and 1,3554, and that of 
parasitism and disease in growing and harvested banana trunks were 1,1988 and 
1,1668, respectively. The factor of predation and others was important.

PMID: 12682973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2003 Mar 6;123(5):657-60.

[Evaluation of medical methods--can we rely on cost-benefit-analysis?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kristiansen IS(1), Stavem K, Linnestad K, Pedersen KM.

Author information:
(1)Senter for medisinsk metodevurdering Sintef-Unimed Postboks 124 Blindern 0314 
Oslo. ivar.s.kristiansen@sintef.no

PMID: 12683199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Health Econ. 2003 May;22(3):445-58. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6296(02)00120-0.

The validity of time trade-off values in calculating QALYs: constant 
proportional time trade-off versus the proportional heuristic.

Dolan P(1), Stalmeier P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of 
Sheffield, 30 Regene Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. p.dolan@shef.ac.uk

In order to calculate quality adjusted life years (QALYs) from time trade-off 
(TTO) responses, individual preferences are required to satisfy the constant 
proportional time trade-off (CPTTO) assumption. Respondents who use a simple 
proportional heuristic may appear to satisfy CPTTO but will in fact generate 
preference reversals for states that are associated with a maximal endurable 
time (MET). Using data from 91 respondents, the study reported here examines the 
extent to which valuations satisfy the CPTTO assumption and the extent to which 
they might be generated by the proportional heuristic. The results suggest that 
respondents are using a proportional heuristic that casts doubt on the validity 
of using the TTO method to calculate QALYs for health states that are associated 
with MET preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/S0167-6296(02)00120-0
PMID: 12683961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Urol Oncol. 2003 Jan-Feb;21(1):39-44. doi: 10.1016/s1078-1439(02)00205-3.

Serendipitous renal cell carcinoma in the post-CT era: continued evidence in 
improved outcomes.

Leslie JA(1), Prihoda T, Thompson IM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, and the Department of Pathology, University of Texas 
Health Science Center at San Antonio, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 
78229, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare patient and tumor characteristics, including survival data, 
between serendipitous and non-serendipitously discovered renal cell carcinoma 
(RCCA) in an era of more frequent use of CT scanning and ultrasonography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Tumor Registry of the Audie L. Murphy VA Hospital in 
San Antonio, TX, was reviewed for new diagnoses or initial treatment of RCCA 
from January 1985 through December 1999. Records were evaluated as to whether 
the initial diagnosis of RCCA was made serendipitously. Prognostic and 
epidemiological variables, were collected and disease-specific and overall 
survival data were computed.
RESULTS: Of 257 patients with RCCA, 93 (36.2%) presented with serendipitously 
discovered tumors and 100 presented with metastases at diagnosis. Mean tumor 
size was smaller in the serendipitous group, compared both pathologically (6.74 
cm vs. 4.49 cm, P < 0.0001) and by radiographic measurement (8.04 cm vs. 4.87 
cm, P < 0.0001). Sixty-six (71%) of 93 serendipitously discovered tumors were 
Stage I at diagnosis, vs. only 30 (18.4%) of 163 non-serendipitous tumors (P < 
0.0001). When non-serendipitous tumors with metastatic disease at presentation 
were excluded, the percentage of patients with Stage I disease was lower than 
for serendipitous tumors (46.8% vs. 71%, P = 0.004). Pathologically confirmed 
tumor stage was more favorable for serendipitously discovered tumors: 40 of 77 
(60%) non-serendipitous tumors were <pT3, vs. 70 of 86 (81.4%) serendipitous 
tumors (P < 0.0001). Overall and disease-specific survival was better in the 
serendipitous group as well, with a 5-year disease-specific survival of 94%, 
contrasted with 35% in the non-serendipitous group (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The widespread use of CT scanning and ultrasonography has led to a 
continued increase in the serendipitous diagnosis of a significant number of all 
RCCA which are associated with significantly lower stage at diagnosis, and thus 
with significantly improved survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-1439(02)00205-3
PMID: 12684126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. JAMA. 2003 Apr 9;289(14):1777; author reply 1777-8. doi: 
10.1001/jama.289.14.1777-b.

Obesity and years of life lost.

Kuller LH.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):187-93.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.14.1777-b
PMID: 12684349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. JAMA. 2003 Apr 9;289(14):1777; author reply 1777-8. doi: 
10.1001/jama.289.14.1777-a.

Obesity and years of life lost.

Beasley JW.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):187-93.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.14.1777-a
PMID: 12684350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. JAMA. 2003 Apr 9;289(14):1820-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.289.14.1820.

Zonisamide for weight loss in obese adults: a randomized controlled trial.

Gadde KM(1), Franciscy DM, Wagner HR 2nd, Krishnan KR.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Clinical Trials Program, Department of Psychiatry, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. gadde001@mc.duke.edu

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 2003 Aug;52(8):600-1.

CONTEXT: Zonisamide is a marketed antiepileptic drug that has serotonergic and 
dopaminergic activity in addition to blockade of sodium and calcium channels. 
Weight loss was an adverse effect associated with zonisamide treatment in 
epilepsy clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy of zonisamide for weight loss in obese 
adults.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Sixteen-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trial with an optional single-blind extension of the same treatment for another 
16 weeks, conducted at Duke University Medical Center from March 2001 to March 
2002.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-five (92%) women and 5 (8%) men (mean [SE] body mass index, 
36.3 [0.5]; mean age, 37.0 (1.0) years).
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to receive zonisamide (n = 30) or 
placebo (n = 30). All participants were prescribed a balanced hypocaloric diet 
(500 kcal/d deficit) and compliance was monitored with self-rated food diaries. 
Zonisamide therapy was started at 100 mg/d orally, with gradual increase to 400 
mg/d and further increase to 600 mg/d for patients losing less than 5% of body 
weight at the end of 12 weeks. Placebo dosing was identical.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Change in body weight.
RESULTS: Of the 60 randomized patients, 51 completed the 16-week acute phase. In 
an intent-to-treat analysis using the available data for all randomized 
participants with the last observation carried forward, the zonisamide group 
lost more body weight than the placebo group (mean [SE], 5.9 [0.8] kg [6.0% 
loss] vs 0.9 [0.4] kg [1.0% loss]; t = 5.5; P<.001) during the 16-week period. A 
longitudinal mixed-model regression for weight change controlling for age, race, 
sex, body mass index, and percent body fat estimated that zonisamide treatment 
over the 16-week study duration was associated with significantly greater weight 
loss than was placebo (t = 6.4; P<.001). Seventeen (57%) of 30 in the zonisamide 
group and 3 (10%) of 30 in the placebo group lost at least 5% of body weight 
(P<.001) by week 16. Of the 37 participants who entered the extension phase, 36 
completed week 32. The zonisamide group (n = 19) had a mean weight loss of 9.2 
kg (1.7 kg) (9.4% loss) at week 32 compared with 1.5 kg (0.7 kg) (1.8% loss) for 
the placebo group (n = 17) (t = 4.0; P<.001). Zonisamide was tolerated well, 
with few adverse effects.
CONCLUSION: In this short-term, preliminary trial, zonisamide and hypocaloric 
diet resulted in more weight loss than placebo and hypocaloric diet in the 
treatment of obesity.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.14.1820
PMID: 12684361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Neurosci. 2003 Apr 1;23(7):2527-37. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-07-02527.2003.

Control of growth cone motility and morphology by LIM kinase and Slingshot via 
phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of cofilin.

Endo M(1), Ohashi K, Sasaki Y, Goshima Y, Niwa R, Uemura T, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.

Growth cone motility and morphology are based on actin-filament dynamics. 
Cofilin plays an essential role for the rapid turnover of actin filaments by 
severing and depolymerizing them. The activity of cofilin is repressed by 
phosphorylation at Ser3 by LIM kinase (LIMK, in which LIM is an acronym of the 
three gene products Lin-11, Isl-1, and Mec-3) and is reactivated by 
dephosphorylation by phosphatases, termed Slingshot (SSH). We investigated the 
roles of cofilin, LIMK, and SSH in the growth cone motility and morphology and 
neurite extension by expressing fluorescence protein-labeled cofilin, LIMK1, 
SSH1, or their mutants in chick dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and then 
monitoring live images of growth cones by time-lapse video fluorescence 
microscopy. The expression of LIMK1 remarkably repressed growth cone motility 
and neurite extension, whereas the expression of SSH1 or a nonphosphorylatable 
S3A mutant of cofilin enhanced these events. The fan-like shape of growth cones 
was disorganized by the expression of any of these proteins. The repressive 
effects on growth cone behavior by LIMK1 expression were significantly rescued 
by the coexpression of S3A-cofilin or SSH1. These findings suggest that LIMK1 
and SSH1 play critical roles in controlling growth cone motility and morphology 
and neurite extension by regulating the activity of cofilin and may be involved 
in signaling pathways that regulate stimulus-induced growth cone guidance. Using 
various mutants of cofilin, we also obtained evidence that the 
actin-filament-severing activity of cofilin is critical for growth cone motility 
and neurite extension.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-07-02527.2003
PMCID: PMC6742113
PMID: 12684437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Neurosci. 2003 Apr 1;23(7):2815-23. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-07-02815.2003.

TUC-4b, a novel TUC family variant, regulates neurite outgrowth and associates 
with vesicles in the growth cone.

Quinn CC(1), Chen E, Kinjo TG, Kelly G, Bell AW, Elliott RC, McPherson PS, 
Hockfield S.

Author information:
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut 06510, USA. quinncc@umdnj.edu

The TUC (TOAD-64/Ulip/CRMP) proteins are homologs of UNC-33, a protein that is 
required for axon extension and guidance in Caenorhabditis elegans. The TUC 
proteins are expressed in newly born neurons in the developing nervous system 
and have been implicated in semaphorin signaling and neuronal polarity. Here, we 
identify several new variants of the TUC family, each of which is expressed 
during distinct periods of neural development. We cloned and characterized 
TUC-4b, a variant of TUC-4a that includes a unique N-terminal extension. The 
functional relevance of this N-terminal domain is demonstrated by the finding 
that overexpression of TUC-4b, but not TUC-4a, results in increased neurite 
length and branching. Furthermore, whereas TUC-4a is expressed throughout life, 
TUC-4b is expressed exclusively during embryonic development. TUC-4b is 
localized to SV2 (synaptic vesicle protein 2)-positive vesicles in the central 
domain of the growth cone, suggesting a potential role in growth cone vesicle 
transport. Furthermore, TUC-4b interacts with the SH3A (Src homology 3A) domain 
of intersectin, an endocytic-exocytic adaptor protein. Together, these data 
suggest that TUC-4b can regulate neurite extension and branching through a 
mechanism that may involve membrane transport in the growth cone.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-07-02815.2003
PMCID: PMC6742060
PMID: 12684468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Eksp Klin Gastroenterol. 2002;(6):60-7, 113.

[Comparative evaluation of methods of analgesia in a series of abdominal 
operations in gerontological patients].

[Article in Russian]

Fedorovskiĭ NM(1), Kosachenko VM.

Author information:
(1)Moscow I.M. Sechenov Medical Academy, Moscow State Clinical Hospital No. 50.

People at the retirement age make up one fifth of the whole population in 
Russia, about 11% of them (3.2 million) being older than 80. The life expectancy 
will become 69.9 during the next two decades. The share of people who are 80 and 
older and need medical aid including surgery will increase.

PMID: 12685017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2002;4(4):183-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00170.x.

Ten-year results of a prospective study using porous-surfaced dental implants 
and a mandibular overdenture.

Deporter D(1), Watson P, Pharoah M, Todescan R, Tomlinson G.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Toronto, ON, Canada. 
Douglas.deporter@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Numerous investigators have used osseointegrated dental implants as 
retention for mandibular overdentures, but few have reported 10-year outcomes or 
incorporated carefully standardized radiographs to document crestal bone loss.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to use a prospective clinical trial 
design to assess the performance of short sintered porous-surfaced dental 
implants with a mandibular complete overdenture when all patients in the trial 
had undergone 10 years of continuous function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-two fully edentulous patients, most with advanced 
alveolar ridge resorption, each received three free-standing Endopore implants 
(7-10 mm in length, mean length, 8.7 mm; Innova Corporation, Toronto, ON, 
Canada) in the mandibular symphysis region. After 10 weeks of submerged healing, 
these implants were used to support an overdenture. Carefully standardized 
radiographs, using a customized stainless steel filmholder attached to each 
implant and the x-ray tube, were collected at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, 
yearly to 5 years, and then again at 7and 10 years.
RESULTS: Life table analysis revealed a 10-year implant survival of 92.7% and a 
mean annual bone loss after year 1 of 0.03 mm.
CONCLUSION: Short free-standing dental implants with a sintered porous surface 
used for implant fixation are a predictable and effective means of retaining a 
mandibular overdenture in patients with advanced mandibular ridge resorption.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00170.x
PMID: 12685793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2002;4(4):190-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00171.x.

Immediate loading of Brånemark implants: a 24-month follow-up of a comparative 
prospective pilot study between mandibular overdentures supported by Conical 
transmucosal and standard MK II implants.

Gatti C(1), Chiapasco M.

Author information:
(1)clagatto@tin.it

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this prospective study is to compare the long-term 
outcome of immediately loaded implant-retained mandibular overdentures supported 
by four screw-type one-piece transmucosal implants with that of four screw-type 
two-piece implants inserted in the interforaminal area of the mandible and 
rigidly connected by a U-shaped curved
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective pilot study was conducted with 10 patients 
receiving an implant-supported overdenture in the mandible. The patients were 
randomly assigned to two groups. In the control group (five patients), four 
standard Brånemark implants (MK II; Nobel Biocare AB, Gothenburg, Sweden), 3.75 
mm large and at least 10 mm long, were sited anterior to the mental foramina, 
and four standard abutments (Nobel Biocare AB) for bar construction were 
immediately screwed to the implants. In the test group (five patients), four 
conical transmucosal implants (Nobel Biocare AB), 3.75 mm large and at least 9 
mm long in the threaded part, were sited anterior to the mental foramina. 
Immediately after implant placement, a U-shaped gold or titanium bar was 
fabricated and implants were immediately loaded (within 24 h) in both groups 
with an implant-retained overdenture. The patients were followed up for a 
minimum of 24 months. Implants were evaluated at the time of immediate loading 
and at 12 and 24 months after prosthetic loading, with the following parameters: 
modified plaque index (MPI), modified bleeding index (MBI), and probing depth 
(PD). Periimplant bone resorption was evaluated on panoramic radiographs taken 
12 and 24 months after the beginning of prosthetic loading.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found between the two groups with 
regard to MPI, MBI, PD, and periimplant bone resorption at 12 and 24 months. The 
cumulative success rate of implants according to the criteria proposed by 
Albrektsson and colleagues was 100% in both groups after 2 years of functional 
loading.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from this study demonstrated that the success rate for 
immediately loaded mandibular implants is similar to that obtained in cases of 
delayed loading and that there are no significant differences between results 
with two-piece implants and one-piece transmucosal implants.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2002.tb00171.x
PMID: 12685794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Surv Ophthalmol. 2003 Mar-Apr;48(2):204-23. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6257(02)00457-5.

Health care economic analyses and value-based medicine.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Sharma S, Landy J.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Value-Based Medicine, Suite 210, 1107 Bethlehem Pike, 
Flourtown, PA 19031, USA.

Health care economic analyses are becoming increasingly important in the 
evaluation of health care interventions, including many within ophthalmology. 
Encompassed with the realm of health care economic studies are cost-benefit 
analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-minimization analysis, and 
cost-utility analysis. Cost-utility analysis is the most sophisticated form of 
economic analysis and typically incorporates utility values. Utility values 
measure the preference for a health state and range from 0.0 (death) to 1.0 
(perfect health). When the change in utility measures conferred by a health care 
intervention is multiplied by the duration of the benefit, the number of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained from the intervention is ascertained. 
This methodology incorporates both the improvement in quality of life and/or 
length of life, or the value, occurring as a result of the intervention. This 
improvement in value can then be amalgamated with discounted costs to yield 
expenditures per quality-adjusted life-year ($/QALY) gained. $/QALY gained is a 
measure that allows a comparison of the patient-perceived value of virtually all 
health care interventions for the dollars expended. A review of the literature 
on health care economic analyses, with particular emphasis on cost-utility 
