analysis, is included in the present review. It is anticipated that cost-utility 
analysis will play a major role in health care within the coming decade.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6257(02)00457-5
PMID: 12686305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Biomed Biotechnol. 2003;2003(1):25-34. doi: 10.1155/S1110724303209013.

Current and Future Gene Therapy for Malignant Gliomas.

Kanzawa T, Ito H, Kondo Y, Kondo S.

Malignant gliomas are the most common neoplasm in the central nervous system. 
When treated with conventional treatments including surgery, irradiation, and 
chemotherapy, the average life expectancy of the most malignant type, 
glioblastoma multiforme is usually less than 1 year. Therefore, gene therapy is 
expected to be an effective and possibly curative treatment. Many gene 
therapeutic approaches have demonstrated efficacy in experimental animal models. 
However, the current clinical trials are disappointing. This review focuses on 
current therapeutic genes/vectors/delivery systems/targeting strategies in order 
to introduce updated trends and hopefully indicate prospective gene therapy for 
malignant gliomas.

DOI: 10.1155/S1110724303209013
PMCID: PMC179758
PMID: 12686720


681. Pediatr Neurosurg. 2003 May;38(5):244-6. doi: 10.1159/000069827.

Life expectancy of ventriculosubgaleal shunt revisions.

Tubbs RS(1), Smyth MD, Wellons JC 3rd, Blount J, Grabb PA, Oakes WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Alabama 
35233, USA. richard.tubbs@ccc.uab.edu

The subgaleal shunt has been and is currently used for the temporary bypass of 
the normal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pathways. We retrospectively reviewed all 
subgaleal shunts placed at the Children's Hospital, Birmingham, Ala., USA, from 
1993 to the present and examined the life expectancy of revisions of this 
temporary method of CSF diversion. The average length of survival of primary, 
secondary and tertiary subgaleal shunts in this population was 37.4, 32.4 and 
19.6 days, respectively. This current review demonstrates that the majority of 
patients in whom a subgaleal shunt is utilized may continue to obtain 
therapeutic diversion of their CSF for greater than 2.5 months with intermittent 
subgaleal shunt revisions. In the majority of cases, this length of time is 
sufficient to manage and resolve issues that would make ventriculoperitoneal 
shunting undesirable.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000069827
PMID: 12686767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Primates. 2003 Apr;44(2):119-26. doi: 10.1007/s10329-002-0025-5. Epub 2003
Feb  19.

Life history of male Japanese macaques living on Koshima Islet.

Mori A(1), Watanabe K.

Author information:
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 
484-8506, Japan. mori@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

In the study of Japanese macaques, two types of male transfer between groups, 
defined by the age of transfer and known as bottom- or top-rank transfer, have 
received much attention, whereas the meaning of the period of solitary life has 
received very little. Male solitary life has been regarded simply as a transient 
state between group transfer. We found that male solitary life is restricted to 
a specific period in the life history of Japanese macaques living on Koshima 
Islet. This period started when the body weights of males and females began to 
diverge and ended when the body weight increase of males had stopped. Solitary 
lifestyle is related to the growth of adolescent and post-adolescent males. We 
hypothesize that a solitary lifestyle is a necessary step for adolescent and 
post-adolescent males to achieve their full adult growth by avoiding feeding 
competition with others, especially with adult females. Increments of body 
weight increase between 3 and 15 years were larger for the sons of lower- and 
middle-rank females than for those of higher-ranking females. Although the sons 
of lower- plus middle-ranking females grew later, they achieved a full adult 
body weight similar to that of sons of higher-ranking females by the age of 15. 
We believe that this body weight increase was achieved because of the solitary 
lifestyle of adolescent and post-adolescent males. Correlation between male body 
weight and life-span was found for body weights at 12 years, but no correlation 
was evident at 6 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-002-0025-5
PMID: 12687475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Orv Hetil. 2003 Mar 9;144(10):451-60.

[New trends in mortality and life expectancy: epidemiologic transition in 
Hungary?].

[Article in Hungarian]

Józan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Központi Statisztikai Hivatal, Budapest.

In 2001 there were 18,000 fewer deaths than in 1993. In eight years, the annual 
number of deaths decreased by 12 per cent, the death rate by 10 per cent, and 
life expectancy at birth increased by 3.3 years. The chronic epidemiologic 
crisis came to an end, and the long process of closing the gap in life 
expectancy at birth between Hungary and the European Union started in the mid 
1990s. There is still a long way to go, however, before the country reaches EU 
levels in terms of life expectancy at birth. The most important phenomenon of 
the favourable turn in mortality and life expectancies has been the decline in 
the death rate due to cardiovascular diseases. Health promotion and preventive 
and curative medicine have contributed to the improving epidemiological 
situation, but the decisive factor in the lower death rates and consequently 
longer life expectancies at different ages, including old age, has been the 
change in the socio-economic and political system. Hungary appears to be at the 
beginning of the fourth stage of epidemiologic transition, i.e. having left the 
stage of chronic noninfectious diseases, it has entered the stage of delayed 
chronic noninfectious diseases.

PMID: 12687794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Mar;44(3):429-38. doi: 10.1080/1042819021000037912.

Cord blood transplantation from unrelated donors: a preliminary report from the 
Japanese Cord Blood Bank Network.

Isoyama K(1), Ohnuma K, Kato K, Takahashi TA, Kai S, Kato S, Takanashi M, Sato 
N, Sato H, Kitajima K, Naoe T, Saito H, Nishihira H; Japanese Cord Blood Bank 
Network.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Showa University Fujigaoka Hospital, 1-30 
Fujigaoka, Aoba-ku, Yokohama 277-8501, Japan.

As a source for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), cord blood 
transplantation from unrelated donors (UCBT) is now considered as an acceptable 
alternative to patients who need unrelated HSCT. To confirm the findings that 
mismatched UCBT is feasible, we discussed here the results for 477 patients with 
hematologic malignancies and non-malignancies who were subjected to UCBT 
coordinated by the Japanese Cord Blood Bank Network (JCBBN). From February 1997 
to October 2001, 411 patients with malignancies and 66 with non-malignancies had 
UCBT through the cord blood bank in the JCBBN; 311 patients had HLA 0-1 
mismatched UCBT; 165, had a 2-4 HLA mismatch. The Kaplan-Meier estimates for 
3-year disease-free survival rate (DFS) were 35.2 +/- 2.8% in malignant 
diseases, and 33.6 +/- 7.2% in patients with non-malignant diseases. The HLA 
disparity had no effect on DFS, incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease, or 
engraftment. As reported previously, we also noted the importance of graft cell 
dose in determining survival in UCBT. Major advantages of UCBT include its rapid 
availability compared with unrelated donor bone marrow, and tolerance of an HLA 
mismatch at 2 loci, which will enable extension of the donor pool. This review 
outlines the latest UCBT progress, with emphasis on practical considerations in 
HLA-mismatched umbilical cord blood selection.

DOI: 10.1080/1042819021000037912
PMID: 12688311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Mar;44(3):451-8. doi: 10.1080/1042819021000038010.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the Netherlands: results from a population-based 
registry.

Krol AD(1), le Cessie S, Snijder S, Kluin-Nelemans JC, Kluin PM, Noordijk EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, KI-P, Leiden University Medical Centre, P.O. 
Box 9600, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. a.d.g.krol@lumc.nl

The Comprehensive Cancer Centre West (CCCW) population based non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (NHL) registry contains information on all newly diagnosed NHL patients 
living in the region covered by the CCCW. Patients were entered from June 1st 
1981 to December 31st 1989. Follow-up is still ongoing, median follow-up is 113 
months (1-191 months) for patients alive. In this study, patient and tumor 
characteristics, data on patterns of care, response and (relative) survival are 
described. As follicular lymphomas and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas are the 
most frequently occurring NHL subtypes in the database, a separate analysis is 
performed to characterize the clinical picture of these disease entities in the 
CCCW population. Our data illustrate that NHL patients in the general population 
are substantially older than patients included in trials and hospital based 
series. Due to older age, treatment is withheld or adapted for a substantial 
number of patients. The resulting survival and relative survival rates are a 
reflection of these choices.

DOI: 10.1080/1042819021000038010
PMID: 12688314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Mar;44(3):483-8. doi: 10.1080/1042819021000037958.

The prognostic relevance of apoptosis-related proteins in classical Hodgkin's 
lymphomas.

Vassallo J(1), Metze K, Traina F, de Souza CA, Lorand-Metze I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State 
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), PO Box 6111, 13081-970 Campinas, São Paulo, 
Brazil. glaujv@fcm.unicamp.br

Neoplastic cells in classical Hodgkin's lymphomas (cHL) seem to correspond to 
defective germinal center B-cells, which escape from apoptosis. Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) may be implicated in this protective mechanism. The aim of the 
present study was to determine the expression of apoptosis-related proteins in 
cHL among adult patients and correlate them with EBV expression, clinical 
findings and survival. EBV was detected by in situ hybridization (Epstein-Barr 
Encoded RNA, EBER, probe). Immunohistochemistry was used on paraffin sections to 
detect LMP-1/EBV, CD15 and the apoptosis-related proteins (bcl-2, bax, bcl-X, 
mcl-1 and CD95). Seventy-eight patients seen at our Institution were studied: 36 
male and 42 female. Median age was 31 years (15-75 years). Histological types of 
cHL were: 61 nodular sclerosis (47 NS1 and 14 NS2), 15 mixed cellularity (MC), 1 
lymphocyte depletion and 1 unclassified. In 50 cases there was EBV expression 
(64%). At least one apoptosis-associated protein was expressed in 92% and CD15 
in 57.7% of the cases. In the univariate analysis, the following variables were 
related to a better overall survival: expression of CD15 (p = 0.023), expression 
of mcl-1 protein (p = 0.029), expression of bcl-2 protein (p = 0.028, only in a 
Cox model after stratification for histology) and expression of LMP-1 (p = 
0.042). EBV expression presented a borderline inverse correlation with bcl-2. A 
prognostic index (PI) developed in the present study revealed that simultaneous 
expression of bcl-2, mcl-1 and LMP-1 was significant and independently 
correlated with an excellent survival.

DOI: 10.1080/1042819021000037958
PMID: 12688319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Water Res. 2003 Feb;37(3):618-26. doi: 10.1016/s0043-1354(02)00357-3.

Estimation of demographic toxicity through the double bootstrap.

Grist EP(1), Crane M, Jones C, Whitehouse P.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, 
Surrey, TW20 0EX, UK.

Toxicity to organisms is usually expressed in terms of an observable effect on 
individuals from which a summary endpoint (such as the NOEC or ECx) is derived 
for risk assessment and environmental quality standards. However, toxicity 
evaluated in terms of a demographic endpoint may be more relevant to such 
regulatory applications. In this paper the effect of toxicity on population 
growth rate r is explored in tandem with a 'double bootstrap' to incorporate 
uncertainty. Exemplifying the approach with a set of individualized life table 
response data obtained for Daphnia magna exposed to zinc sulphate solution, the 
influence of increasing concentrations is assessed. A demographic-based metric 
for r, the ErCx (effect on r concentration percentage), is defined to permit 
alternative population level estimation of a 'safe effect' concentration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0043-1354(02)00357-3
PMID: 12688696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Feb;32(1):34-5. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg018.

Commentary on Cochrane AL (1934). Elie Metschnikoff and his theory of an 
'instinct de la vie'.

Aveline M(1).

Author information:
(1)Emeritus Consultant, Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, UK.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Feb;32(1):32-4.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg018
PMID: 12690003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Feb;32(1):36. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg016.

Commentary: Early thoughts on death, disease and sex.

Thomas H(1).

Author information:
(1)College Road Surgery, 6 College Road, Eastbourne, East Sussex BN21 4HY, UK.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Feb;32(1):32-4.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg016
PMID: 12690004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2003 May;6(3):313-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.mco.0000068968.34812.14.

Enteral nutrition delivery technique.

Gopalan S(1), Khanna S.

Author information:
(1)Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute, New Delhi, India. crnss@hotmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Ingestion and absorption of a nutritionally adequate diet is 
necessary to maintain normal body composition and organ function. Patients with 
all kinds of diseases are at increased risk of developing nutritional 
abnormalities from anorexia, dietary restriction, malabsorption, increased 
intestinal losses or altered nutrient requirements. Therefore, it is important 
for doctors to understand the general principles of clinical nutrition for 
optimal management of patients with various disorders. The purpose of this 
review is to highlight an important aspect of nutrition: methods for enteral 
nutrient delivery. Enteral feeding is the preferred method to provide 
nutritional support in patients who cannot or will not eat but who have a 
functional gastrointestinal tract. The placement of a small-diameter nasogastric 
or nasoduodenal tube is the simplest technique for feeding patients who are 
unlikely to require tube feeding for more than 6 weeks. Gastrostomy, 
gastrojejunostomy and jejunostomy tubes placed by using endoscopic, radiologic, 
or surgical techniques should be considered in patients who require long-term 
feeding. With newer endoscopic feeding techniques replacing more conventional 
surgical techniques, this review proposes to discuss the newer developments in 
techniques of enteral feeding.
RECENT FINDINGS: This review will briefly discuss the principles governing 
nasoenteral feeding and will describe in detail the endoscopic assisted methods 
for placing enteral feeding tubes. These include percutaneous endoscopic 
gastrostomy, jejunal extension through a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy or 
direct endoscopic jejunostomy. It will also discuss the procedural complications 
and long term results of these methods of enteral feeding. Lastly the latest 
innovation in enteral feed - the one step button - is also discussed.
SUMMARY: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy placement is an appropriate method 
for providing nutrition in ill patients if no contraindication to enteral 
feeding exists. In certain situations, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy 
placement may even be used to make the life of a terminally ill patient 
comfortable.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mco.0000068968.34812.14
PMID: 12690265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2002 Dec;12(6):436-44. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892002001200009.

[Life expectancy at birth and mortality in Brazil, 1999: exploratory analysis of 
regional differences].

[Article in Portuguese]

Duarte EC(1), Schneider MC, Paes-Sousa R, da Silva JB, Castillo-Salgado C.

Author information:
(1)Ministério da Saúde, Fundação Nacional de Saúde, Centro Nacional de 
Epidemiologia, Brasília, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the inequalities found using health indicators in the 
states and regions of Brazil, according to 1999 socioeconomic and demographic 
indicators.
METHODS: An exploratory ecological cross-sectional study was carried out. The 
units of analysis were Brazilian states (n = 27) and regions (n = 5). 
Descriptive measures of inequality were calculated. Pearson's correlation and 
also linear regression analysis were used to identify associations between 
health indicators and selected socio-economic and demographic indicators. The 
health indicators analyzed were: life expectancy at birth, infant mortality 
rate, mortality rate for children < 5 years due to acute diarrheal diseases and 
to acute respiratory infections, and deaths due to homicides and traffic 
accidents.
RESULTS: Important gains were seen in life expectancy at birth over the 
1991-1999 period, especially for males. There was a trend towards larger gains 
in states that had had lower life expectancy at birth in 1991, which produced 
greater homogeneity across Brazil in this indicator in recent years. The infant 
mortality rate decreased by 28% between 1991 and 1999. However, this indicator 
still varies widely among the regions--from 52.5 per 1,000 live births in the 
northeast to 17.1 per 1,000 in the south--and among states--from 64.0 per 1,000 
in Alagoas to 15.1 per 1,000 in Rio Grande do Sul. With respect to children < 5 
years, the mortality rate due to acute diarrheal diseases was equal to or higher 
than the national median (4.1 per 10,000) in all the north-eastern states, and 
the mortality rate due to acute respiratory infections was equal to or higher 
than the national median (10.8 per 10,000) in all the southern, southeastern, 
and central-western states. The mortality rates (standardized by sex and age) 
due to traffic accidents and to homicides in 1999 were 17.7 and 26.0 per 100,000 
inhabitants, respectively. Extreme values were found in some states for 
mortality due to homicide (57.8 per 100,000 in Pernambuco) and traffic accidents 
(54.5 per 100,000 in Roraima). The mortality rate due to homicide was strongly 
associated with urbanization (P = 0.001). Higher mortality rates due to traffic 
accidents were associated with lower poverty levels (beta = -0.93; P < 0.001), 
lower literacy rates (beta = -1.16; P = 0.005), and larger population growth 
over the past decade (beta = 3.10; P = 0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of health inequality in Brazil indicates a polarization 
among regions and states as well as a juxtaposition of diseases associated with 
under-development and diseases linked to development, suggesting the need for a 
health system that is committed to addressing these issues.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892002001200009
PMID: 12690730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2002 Dec;12(6):454-61. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892002001200011.

[Using different indicators of preventable mortality as an approach to measuring 
health inequalities in Chilean municipalities].

[Article in Spanish]

Gattini C(1), Sanderson C, Castillo-Salgado C.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Organización y Gestión de Servicios de Salud, División de 
Desarrollo de Sistemas y Servicios de Salud, Organización Panamericana de la 
Salud, Washington, D.C., USA.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze differences in avoidable mortality among communes in 
Chile, using different indicators as an operational approach to estimating 
health inequalities.
METHODS: Small area variation analysis in a sample of 117 of all 335 Chilean 
communes that existed in 1992. By using secondary data, we developed and 
compared some avoidable-mortality indicators, such as potential years of life 
lost (PYLL), avoidable mortality (AM) (based on background and criteria drawn 
from the literature), health care avoidable mortality (HCAMR), and life 
expectancy. A socioeconomic development index (SEDI) was also developed. The 
scope of the variation was estimated through the weighted variation coefficient, 
the Gini coefficient, the ratio between the values for the quintiles at both 
extremes of the SEDI distribution, and the ratio of the lowest SEDI quintile to 
the group of municipalities having a SEDI greater than 0.90 (optimal empirical 
reference value). The socioeconomic pattern of variations was examined through 
concentration curves and by comparing communal quintiles based on their SEDI.
RESULTS: The various avoidable-mortality indicators used showed an inverse and 
statistically significant correlation with socioeconomic development, as well as 
with the profile of the various SEDI quintiles and with the majority of specific 
causes of avoidable mortality. The distribution profile of AM indicators among 
SEDI communal quintiles reflects the same tendency, along with most of the 
mortality from specific avoidable causes. The use of three reference values (the 
mean, the quintile with the greatest SEDI, and the optimal empirical reference 
value) makes it possible to measure gaps that could be avoided. The ratio of the 
lowest SEDI quintile to the empirical optimal reference value was 2.1 for AM, 
2.0 for PYLL, 1.7 for infant mortality, and 1.5 for HCAMR.
CONCLUSIONS: These results, which are consistent with those found in previous 
published sources, estimate the magnitude and pattern of variations among 
communes. The results also provide information, based on data for 1992, with 
which to start monitoring health inequalities among small geographic areas, 
which were communes in this particular case. Although interventions for 
promoting equity tend to focus exclusively on communes having lower 
socioeconomic development and higher rates of avoidable mortality, reducing the 
latter implies a two-pronged approach: prioritizing interventions targeting 
underprivileged communes so as to foster equity, while attempting to cover the 
majority of communes in an effort to prevent avoidable mortality.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892002001200011
PMID: 12690732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Instr Course Lect. 2003;52:257-65.

Complications in primary total hip arthroplasty: avoidance and management: wear.

Ries MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA.

Many factors, including polyethylene processing, sterilization method, 
counterface material, femoral head size, femoral offset, acetabular component 
position, implant design, and patient activity level, affect the rate of wear in 
total hip arthroplasty. For patients with life expectancy that exceeds the 
longevity of the conventional implant materials, an alternative bearing surface 
(highly cross-linked polyethylene, metal-on-metal, or ceramic-on-ceramic) may be 
considered. Although laboratory wear tests with these materials are very 
favorable, clinical outcomes have not been clearly established. When osteolysis 
does develop in response to particulate debris, the location and progression of 
the lesions may be quite variable. Asymptomatic stable lesions can be followed 
clinically and radiographically while symptomatic or enlarging lesions or those 
that may compromise the integrity of the periprosthetic bone stock require 
surgery. If acetabular component revision is necessary and an adequate rim of 
host bone is maintained to support a revision acetabular component, defects can 
be filled with particulate bone graft. Large segmental defects generally require 
structural allografts. If the acetabular shell is well fixed in good position 
and the osteolytic defects are accessible, treatment with curettage and bone 
grafting of the lesions with liner revision is appropriate to avoid use of a 
structural allograft. Proximal femoral defects around a well-fixed stem can be 
managed in a similar manner with curettage and bone grafting. Distal lesions 
associated with risk of periprosthetic femur fracture or implant loosening 
require stem revision. Osteoclastic resportion of bone in response to 
particulate debris can be impaired with use of some drugs such as alendronate. 
However, the safety and efficacy of alendronate in the clinical management of 
osteolysis associated with total hip arthroplasty has not been established.

PMID: 12690853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Jan;44(1):29-37. doi: 10.3109/10428190309178811.

Cost-effectiveness of a transplantation strategy compared to melphalan and 
prednisone in younger patients with multiple myeloma.

Kouroukis CT(1), O'Brien BJ, Benger A, Marcellus D, Foley R, Garner J, Ingram C, 
Haines P, Henderson-O'Connor N, Meyer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Cancer Care Ontario, Hamilton Regional 
Cancer Centre, 699 Concession Street, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8V 5C2. 
tom.kouroukis@hrcc.on.ca

High dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) improves 
outcomes in patients 65 years of age or less with multiple myeloma. Survival and 
costs in a cohort of 16 patients who received melphalan and prednisone as part 
of a clinical trial were compared with those of 36 patients referred to our 
centre for consideration of ASCT. In the transplant group, survival and costs 
were extrapolated to match the period of observation in the melphalan and 
prednisone group. Patient-specific and average costs were calculated from the 
perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health. Costs and survival were varied by 
50% in the sensitivity analysis. Transplantation improved life expectancy by 
19.3 months with a cost difference of 30,517 Canadian dollars. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of transplantation compared with melphalan and prednisone was 
25,710 Canadian dollars per life-year gained when additional pamidronate and 
follow-up costs were considered. Discounting costs and survival at 3 and 5% did 
not result in important differences. The sensitivity analysis resulted in best 
and worse case scenarios for transplantation compared with melphalan and 
prednisone of 13,049 dollars and 63,954 dollars per life-year gained 
respectively. In comparison with melphalan and prednisone, ASCT appears to be 
cost-effective in patients 65 years old or younger with myeloma.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190309178811
PMID: 12691140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5 Suppl 1:29-36. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00013.x.

Immediate loading in the maxilla using flapless surgery, implants placed in 
predetermined positions, and prefabricated provisional restorations: a 
retrospective 3-year clinical study.

Rocci A(1), Martignoni M, Gottlow J.

Author information:
(1)anrocci@tin.it

BACKGROUND: Immediate loading of dental implants shortens the treatment time and 
makes it possible to give the patient an esthetic appearance during the whole 
treatment period.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate an immediate-loading 
treatment protocol, which included flapless surgery, implants placed in 
predetermined positions and connected to prefabricated provisional restorations, 
and the 3-year clinical results.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 97 Brånemark System Mk IV implants (Nobel 
Biocare AB, Gothenburg, Sweden) with a machined surface were inserted in the 
maxillas of 46 patients. A presurgical three-dimensional model of the patients' 
soft tissue and underlying alveolar bone anatomy was created, which allowed the 
clinician to place the implants in predetermined positions and connect them to 
prefabricated provisional restorations. A surgical template with drilling guides 
corresponding to each implant was used. The apical part of the master guide was 
equipped with a circular "mucotome," which punched out a 5 mm hole in the mucosa 
to eliminate the need for flap elevation. The patients received 25 fixed partial 
prostheses and 27 single-tooth restorations. Bone quality and quantity were 
assessed. Radiographic examinations were performed on the day of surgery/loading 
and at the 1-, 2-, and 3-year follow-up visits.
RESULTS: All implant sites showed intact buccal and lingual bone walls during 
surgery, confirming the accuracy of the bone-mapping procedure. The 
prefabricated temporary restorations fitted, meaning that the implants were 
positioned clinically in the same way as on the cast. Nine implants in eight 
patients failed during the first 8 weeks of loading. This resulted in a 
cumulative survival rate of 91% after 3 years of prosthetic load. The survival 
rate of splinted implants was 94%. The number of failed implants was 
significantly higher in cases of single-tooth replacements and placement in soft 
bone sites and smokers. The failed implants were successfully replaced according 
to a two-stage protocol. All patients finally received the expected restoration. 
The marginal bone resorption was on average 1.0 mm during the first year of 
loading, 0.4 mm during the second year, and 0.1 mm during the third year.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirmed the feasibility of an immediate-loading 
treatment protocol in the maxilla, which included flapless surgery, implants and 
abutments placed in predetermined positions, and prefabricated provisional 
restorations. All failures occurred within the first 2 months of loading. The 
unchanged survival rate and the low average bone loss found during the following 
34-month study period indicate a good long-term prognosis for the performed 
immediate-loading treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00013.x
PMID: 12691648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. FASEB J. 2003 Jun;17(9):1108-9. doi: 10.1096/fj.02-0819fje. Epub 2003 Apr 8.

Life span extension by reduction of the growth hormone-insulin-like growth 
factor-1 axis: relation to caloric restriction.

Shimokawa I(1), Higami Y, Tsuchiya T, Otani H, Komatsu T, Chiba T, Yamaza H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology & Gerontology, Nagasaki University Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki City 852-8523, Japan. shimo@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

A reduced growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 axis is 
associated with an extension of lifespan in laboratory rodents. Several 
phenotypes of such animal models resemble those induced by caloric restriction 
(CR). Using a transgenic male Wistar rat model whose GH-IGF-1 axis was 
moderately suppressed by overexpression of the antisense GH transgene (tg), we 
elucidated a relationship between the effects of a reduced GH-IGF-1 axis and CR 
for some biomarkers of aging, lifespan, and pathologies. Heterozygous (tg/-) 
rats fed ad libitum (AL) had a dwarf phenotype similar to that of control 
nontransgenic (-/-) rats subjected to 30% CR from 6 wk of age. Both the reduced 
GH-IGF-1 axis and CR extended lifespan to a similar extent, although the effect 
of CR seemed to be greater. There was an additive effect of CR to lifespan 
extension when tg/- rats were subjected to CR. Pathologic analyses indicated 
that the preventive effect of CR on selected diseases was greater than that of 
the reduced GH-IGF-1 axis. The present study suggests that CR affects aging and 
longevity by mechanisms other than suppression of the GH-IGF-1 axis, although CR 
might exhibit its effects partly through the reduced GH-IGF-1 axis.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.02-0819fje
PMID: 12692087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Hematol J. 2003;4(1):31-40. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200216.

Biallelic mutations in the CEBPA gene and low CEBPA expression levels as 
prognostic markers in intermediate-risk AML.

Barjesteh van Waalwijk van Doorn-Khosrovani S(1), Erpelinck C, Meijer J, van 
Oosterhoud S, van Putten WL, Valk PJ, Berna Beverloo H, Tenen DG, Löwenberg B, 
Delwel R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha is an essential transcription factor 
for granulocytic differentiation. Recent studies reported N- and C-terminal 
CEBPA mutations in approximately 7% of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) patients. 
C-terminal mutations are usually in-frame and occur in the basic-leucine zipper 
(bZIP) domain, resulting in deficient DNA binding. Using a rapid PCR approach, 
we screened for bZIP mutations and determined the prognostic value of these 
mutations in a cohort of 277 de novo AMLs. In addition, we set out to quantify 
CEBPA mRNA levels by 'real-time' PCR using TaqMan technology. In-frame 
insertions were observed in 12 (4.3%) cases. All cases with mutations carried an 
intermediate-risk karyotype and all but one belonged to M1 or M2 FAB class. 
Further sequence analysis revealed that CEBPA C-terminal mutations are 
associated with frameshift mutations in the N-terminus of CEBPA. These two 
mutations were always found in different alleles. Event-free survival (EFS) and 
overall survival (OS) of patients with CEBPA mutations were significantly 
increased (P=0.02 and 0.03, respectively) in comparison to the patients lacking 
these mutations. Mutations were associated with a significantly reduced hazard 
ratio for death (OS: HR=0.35, P=0.04) and failure (EFS: no CR, death in CR or 
relapse, HR=0.37, P=0.03). This favourable hazard ratio was maintained after 
adjustment for cytogenetic risk, FLT3-ITD and CEBPA expression levels in 
multivariable analysis. In contrast, low CEBPA expression in AML with 
intermediate-risk karyotype (n=6) seemed to be associated with poor prognosis 
(not significant). By including this newly developed PCR assay, we define a 
subgroup of good-risk patients within the heterogeneous intermediate-risk group 
of AML.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200216
PMID: 12692518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Hematol J. 2003;4(1):41-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200224.

Prognostic significance of FLT3 ITD and D835 mutations in AML patients.

Sheikhha MH(1), Awan A, Tobal K, Liu Yin JA.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Group, Department of Clinical Haematology, Manchester 
Royal Infirmary, UK.

Both ITD and D835 mutations of the fms-like tyrosine kinase (FLT3) gene cause 
constitutive activation of the receptor, in the absence of ligand. We have 
examined a cohort of 91 patients, AML (80) and MDS (11), to determine the 
prevalence of these mutations and any correlations between the two mutations and 
disease prognosis. FLT3/ITD (ITD+) or D835 mutations (D835+) were not detected 
in MDS patients examined. However, 10% (8/80) and 7.5% (6/80) of AML patients 
were ITD+ and D835+, respectively. ITD+ patients have a higher rate of relapse 
than patients with wild-type (WT) FLT3. Median overall survival was 4.6 months 
(range 0.6-36.2) for ITD+ and 19.85 months (range 0.2-197.5) for WT patients 
(P=0.0066), and disease-free survival (DFS) was also worse for ITD+ patients 
than FLT3/WT patients (P=0.047). FLT3/ITD is also a significant prognostic 
marker for overall survival (OS) and DFS in patients in the standard karyotype 
group (P=0.0040, 0.0365, respectively). ITD is more prevalent in patients in the 
standard karyotype category (7/41, 17.1%) as compared to patients in the 
poor-risk category (1/32, 3.1%). Similar to ITD, D835 mutations were found to be 
more frequent in patients with standard-risk rather than poor-risk cytogenetic 
category. WBC count (mean 63.8 x 10(9)/l) was significantly higher in ITD+ 
patients than patients with D835 mutations (mean 34.8 x 10(9)/l) and WT patients 
(mean 26.4 x 10(9)/l) (P=0.004). D835 mutants did not appear to have a worse 
median OS or DFS compared with the WT group. We conclude that FLT3/ITD mutations 
may be an important prognostic marker in AML, especially in the standard/good 
risk karyotype groups, where it may allow risk-directed therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200224
PMID: 12692519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Hematol J. 2003;4(1):47-53. doi: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200222.

High-dose daunorubicin as liposomal compound (Daunoxome) in elderly patients 
with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Offidani M(1), Corvatta L, Centurioni R, Leoni F, Malerba L, Mele A, Marconi M, 
Scortechini A, Masia MC, Leoni P.

Author information:
(1)Clinica di Ematologia, Università degli Studi di Ancona, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Umberto I, Italy. m.offidani@ao-umbertoprimo.marche.it

Elderly acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a rare condition associated with 
low complete remission (CR) rate and short survival. In order to improve these 
results, we evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of Daunoxome, a liposomal 
daunorubicin, exhibiting toxicity profile and pharmacokinetic indices better 
than standard daunorubicin. In total, 15 consecutive patients with nonmature ALL 
were enrolled on a prospective phase II study. No exclusion was made because of 
older age, poor performance status and organ dysfunctions. Median age was 69 
years; performance status resulted >/=2 in nine patients (60%), six patients 
(40%) were bcr-abl positive and two-thirds of the patients had comorbidities. 
Induction therapy consisted of vincristine, Daunoxome and dexamethasone. 
Patients in CR received one or two consolidation cycles of cyclophosphamide, 
cytarabine and topotecan followed, in patients achieving CR, by a two-year 
rotating maintenance course including vincristine, Daunoxome, cyclophosphamide 
and prednisone. In all, 11 patients (73%) achieved CR, three patients (20%) died 
early during the induction phase and one patient (7%) had resistant disease. 
Five patients (33%) relapsed after 5-21 months. With a median follow-up of 20 
months, disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) at 2 years were 36 
and 38%, respectively. Major toxicity included myelosuppression and infection. 
Our experience demonstrates that a high dose of daunorubicin as liposomal 
compound can be safely administered in elderly ALL, exhibiting high antitumor 
activity. Our therapeutic program shows evidence of benefit in DFS and OS.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.thj.6200222
PMID: 12692520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2003 Apr;31(8):643-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703906.

Comparative pharmacokinetic study of high-dose etoposide and etoposide phosphate 
in patients with lymphoid malignancy receiving autologous stem cell 
transplantation.

Dorr RT(1), Briggs A, Kintzel P, Meyers R, Chow HH, List A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, The University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.

The pharmacokinetics of two etoposide (E) formulations were evaluated in 
patients with refractory hematologic malignancies receiving high-dose 
conditioning with autologous stem cell transplantation. Patients were randomized 
to either E at 800 mg/m(2) (containing polysorbate 80 and polyethylene glycol) 
or etoposide phosphate (EP) at 910 mg/m(2) on days -7 and -5, prior to 
melphalan, 80 mg/m(2) on day -5. On day -3, EP was repeated. Plasma E was 
analyzed after each formulation on days -7 and -5 to compare intrapatient 
pharmacokinetics. In total, 10 patients were treated: four each with multiple 
myeloma or Hodgkin's disease and two with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Mucositis was 
the major toxicity with seven patients. EP first produced grade 3 mucositis. 
There was no procedure-related mortality and eight patients remained alive 1 
year post-transplant. Cumulative etoposide exposure (AUC) was slightly greater 
with EP (P=0.056). Conversely, the volume of distribution was slightly, 33%, 
larger (P=0.052) and clearance was increased with the E infusion (P=0.14). As 
none of the differences reached statistical significance, both E formulations 
appear to be pharmacokinetically equivalent in the high-dose transplant setting. 
The combination of high-dose EP with melphalan is an active preparative regimen 
prior to ABMT for hematologic malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1703906
PMID: 12692603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2003 Apr;84(4 Suppl 2):S1-2. doi: 
10.1053/apmr.2003.50203.

Measurement of quality of life in rehabilitation medicine: emerging issues.

Tulsky DS(1), Rosenthal M.

Author information:
(1)Kessler Medical Rehabilitation Research and Education Corp, University of 
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-The New Jersey Medical School, West Orange, 
NJ 07901, USA. dtulsky@kmrrec.org

The articles in the current supplement (Part II) present emerging issues in the 
measurement of quality of life (QOL). The articles were prepared based on 
presentations at a meeting held in November 2001. Part I (December 2002) 
provided important background information, definitions, and approaches that have 
been used in various rehabilitation populations. The articles in the current 
supplement are intended to provide information about new advances in QOL 
measurement. They review issues such as measuring QOL from the individual's 
perspective, adapting instruments for different cultures and illiteracy, and 
using advanced psychometric techniques to build a computer-adapted measurement 
system. Novel solutions are offered. We hope that this information can be used 
to set a research agenda for improving the measurement of QOL in rehabilitation 
medicine. The present article outlines these issues and provides a context for 
the information that has been presented in the 2 supplements.

DOI: 10.1053/apmr.2003.50203
PMID: 12692765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Med Clin North Am. 2003 Mar;87(2):391-418. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(02)00185-2.

Role of nonglycosidic inotropic agents: indications, ethics, and limitations.

Chatterjee K(1), De Marco T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, Chatterjee 
Center for Cardiac Research, Moffit-Long Hospital, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. 
chatterj@medicine.ucsf.edu

Nonglycosidic inotropic agents have been used for the short-term management of 
low output states and hypotension complicating acute myocardial infarction for 
several years. Without adequate reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium, 
inotropic agents are seldom effective in producing sustained hemodynamic 
responses. Furthermore, the potential exists for enhancement of ischemia and 
extension of myocardial necrosis. Thus, inotropic and vasopressors therapy 
should be regarded as temporary supportive treatment in patients with acute 
coronary syndrome and should be discontinued as soon as feasible. Parenteral 
sympathomimetic agents, usually dobutamine, and phosphodiesterase inhibitors, 
usually milrinone, are used for the management of exacerbations of chronic 
systolic heart failure. Although hemodynamics, and occasionally clinical status, 
improve, such therapy is associated with increased mortality and can potentially 
hasten a patient's demise. Nonparenteral sympathomimetics, such as ibopamine, 
phosphodiesterase-III inhibitors, such as milrinone and enoximone, 
calcium-sensitizing agents, such as pimobendan, and other novel inotropic 
agents, such as vesnarinone, all increase mortality of patients with chronic 
heart failure. Furthermore, newer noninotropic agents, such as B-natriuretic 
peptide, have been introduced for treatment of decompensated heart failure. New 
nonpharmacologic devices, such as biventricular pacing, are available for the 
treatment of advanced heart failure. Thus, indications for the use of presently 
available nonglycosidic inotropic agents are limited and should be considered 
only for short-term therapy or when no other treatment is available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(02)00185-2
PMID: 12693731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Med Clin North Am. 2003 Mar;87(2):523-52, xiii. doi: 
10.1016/s0025-7125(02)00179-7.

Surgical restoration of the failing left ventricle.

Westaby S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Oxford Heart Centre, The John Radcliffe 
Hospital, Oxford Radcliffe NHS Trust, Headington, Oxford, United Kingdom.

As life expectancy increases in the Western world, heart failure (HF) is a major 
public health concern. Many patients with markedly reduced left ventricular 
ejection fraction can survive for years with reasonable functional capacity. 
Transplant-listed patients (LV) with ischemic heart disease who do not receive a 
donor organ may have a 3- to 4-year survival that equates with those 
transplanted. Thus, it is difficult to decide when to commit a patient with 
ischemic cardiomyopathy to transplantation unless supported by a LV assist 
device for cardiogenic shock. At the same time, the availability of donor organs 
is decreasing, with only 2000 per year in the United States and less than 300 in 
the United Kingdom. Consequently, there is a need to evaluate new surgical 
options for the deteriorating HF patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(02)00179-7
PMID: 12693738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Med Decis Making. 2003 Mar-Apr;23(2):167-76. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03251244.

Surgical decisions for early stage, non-small cell lung cancer: which racially 
sensitive perceptions of cancer are likely to explain racial variation in 
surgery?

Cykert S(1), Phifer N.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology of the 
University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: Twenty-three percent of white and 36% of African American patients 
who suffer from early stage non-small cell lung cancer do not undergo 
potentially curative surgery A simple decision model is presented to probe for 
elements of surgical decision making that could explain decisions against lung 
cancer surgery and racial variation in these decisions.
METHODS: A survey of 181 diverse individuals to measure health utility scores 
for conditions relevant to lung cancer surgery was performed. These scores were 
inserted into a simple model that calculates quality-adjusted survival related 
to decisions for and against cancer surgery
RESULTS: The health utility score (HUS) for progressive lung cancer, as 
determined by a survey using the standard gamble approach, is nearly twice as 
high in African Americans as whites (0.32 v. 0.18). However, in a model 
incorporating African American utility data, lung cancer surgery remains heavily 
favored compared to the no-surgery decision (2.32 v. 0.48 quality-adjusted life 
years). Sensitivity analysis shows that factors that lead to a belief of cancer 
"cure" in the absence of surgical intervention are much more important than 
variations of HUS in directing model results away from surgery.
CONCLUSION: This analysis illustrates that racial differences in quality-of-life 
ratings of progressive lung cancer as measured by HUS exist but may not explain 
decisions against surgery as much as other elements of patient care.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03251244
PMID: 12693879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2003 Apr;17(8):1021-30. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01545.x.

Safety, efficacy and costs of pharmacotherapy for functional gastrointestinal 
disorders: the case of alosetron and its implications.

Ladabaum U(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0538, USA. ladabau@itsa.ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Functional gastrointestinal disorders cause substantial morbidity, 
but not mortality. Alosetron may achieve 'adequate relief ' in 
diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome, but may cause major 
complications, including death.
AIM: To appraise, quantitatively, the trade-off between possible symptomatic 
improvement and serious complications in the treatment of functional 
gastrointestinal disorders.
METHODS: A decision analytical model was used to examine alosetron or standard 
treatment for 6 months in 45-year-old women with diarrhoea-predominant irritable 
bowel syndrome using the health care system's perspective.
RESULTS: Assuming a 14% higher 'adequate relief' rate with alosetron compared to 
standard care, and a complication rate of four per 1000 persons in 6 months, 
alosetron gained 0.00081 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per patient at a 
cost of 358,700 US dollars per QALY gained. Alosetron gained QALYs if 'adequate 
relief' increased the patients' utility by more than 0.01 in the base case. In 
probabilistic analysis, alosetron gained QALYs in 98.2% of iterations at a 
median cost of 212,600 US dollars per QALY (interquartile range, 138,000-338,900 
US dollars per QALY). Results were highly sensitive to the utility gain with 
'adequate relief' and alosetron's response and complication rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Alosetron's benefit-to-risk profile appears to be favourable, but 
its cost per QALY gained may be substantial. Decision analyses on treatments for 
functional gastrointestinal disorders are likely to be highly sensitive to the 
utility estimates used. There is a pressing need for direct utility measurements 
in functional gastrointestinal disorders.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.2003.01545.x
PMID: 12694084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):7-13. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04416-4.

Clinical evaluation of proton radiotherapy for non-small-cell lung cancer.

Shioyama Y(1), Tokuuye K, Okumura T, Kagei K, Sugahara S, Ohara K, Akine Y, 
Ishikawa S, Satoh H, Sekizawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University Hospital, Tsukuba, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical results of proton radiotherapy for patients 
with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1983 and 2000, 51 NSCLC patients were treated 
with proton beams at the University of Tsukuba. There were 28 patients in Stage 
I, 9 in Stage II, 8 in Stage III, 1 in Stage IV, and 5 with recurrent disease. 
Thirty-three patients had squamous cell carcinoma, 17 had adenocarcinoma, and 1 
had large-cell carcinoma. Median fraction and total doses given were 3.0 Gy 
(range 2.0-6.0 Gy), and 76.0 Gy (range 49.0-93.0 Gy), respectively.
RESULTS: The 5-year overall survival rate was 29% for all patients, 70% for 9 
Stage IA patients, and 16% for 19 Stage IB patients, respectively (IA vs. IB: p 
< 0.05). The 5-year in-field local control rate was higher in patients with 
Stage IA (89%) when compared with those with Stage IB (39%). Forty-seven 
patients (92%) experienced acute lung toxicity of Grade 1 or less; 3 had Grade 
2, 1 had Grade 3, and none experienced Grade 4 or higher. Patients in the 
present series showed very little late toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Proton therapy is a very safe and effective treatment for patients 
with NSCLC, especially for those with early stages. The relative merit of proton 
therapy in comparison with stereotactic photon radiotherapy or three-dimensional 
conformal photon radiotherapy remains to be defined through future clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04416-4
PMID: 12694818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):21-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04413-9.

Sequencing radiotherapy for soft tissue sarcoma when re-resection is planned.

Zagars GK(1), Ballo MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether disease outcome for localized soft-tissue sarcoma 
(STS) excised before referral to a specialist center and there re-resected was 
influenced by the timing of radiation therapy (XRT)-before or after 
re-resection.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred ninety-five consecutive patients with 
localized grossly excised STS were retrospectively evaluated for local control, 
freedom from metastasis, disease-free survival, and disease-specific survival, 
according to whether they had XRT before (121) or after (174) re-resection of 
their tumor bed. Univariate and multivariate statistical techniques were 
employed.
RESULTS: At re-resection, residual STS was found in 159 patients (54%), 
including gross tumor in 73 (25%). The incidence of residual disease was lower 
in those receiving preoperative XRT (median dose 50 Gy) (36%) than in those 
having postoperative RT (median dose 60 Gy) (54%) (p = 0.024). With a median 
follow-up of 9.1 years, the local control rates for all patients at 5, 10, and 
15 years were 86%, 84%, and 81%, respectively, and there were no differences 
between the two XRT sequences. In multivariate regression, there was no evidence 
that XRT sequence influenced local control, metastatic control, disease-free 
survival, or disease-specific survival. There was a trend toward fewer 
XRT-related late complications with preoperative XRT, but this was not 
significant, and the incidence of complications was low (5% at 15 years).
