CONCLUSIONS: Patients who present after total but oncologically inadequate 
excision of STS can receive approximately 50 Gy before re-resection or 
approximately 60 Gy after re-resection, with approximately equivalent, 
satisfactory local control and overall disease outcome. Decisions as to the most 
appropriate treatment sequence for any individual patient can be made regardless 
of considerations as to the effectiveness of one sequence compared with the 
other.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04413-9
PMID: 12694820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):28-39. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04506-6.

Impact of radiotherapy for high-risk neuroblastoma: a Children's Cancer Group 
study.

Haas-Kogan DA(1), Swift PS, Selch M, Haase GM, Seeger RC, Gerbing RB, Stram DO, 
Matthay KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. hkogan@radonc17.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the effect of local radiation administered to primary disease 
sites in children with high-risk neuroblastoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 539 eligible patients were entered on protocol 
CCG-3891, consisting of chemotherapy, primary surgery, and 10 Gy of external 
beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to gross residual disease, followed by randomized 
assignment to continuation chemotherapy (CC) or autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (ABMT). ABMT patients received total body irradiation (TBI).
RESULTS: Estimated event-free survival and overall survival at 5 years were 25% 
+/- 2% and 35% +/- 2%, respectively. Estimated 5-year locoregional recurrence 
rates were 51% +/- 5% and 33% +/- 7% for CC and ABMT patients (p = 0.004). For 
patients who received 10 Gy of EBRT to the primary, the addition of 10 Gy of TBI 
and ABMT decreased local recurrence compared with CC (22% +/- 12% and 52% +/- 
8%, p = 0.022). EBRT did not increase acute toxicity, except for increased total 
parenteral nutrition administration.
CONCLUSIONS: In combination with EBRT to the primary tumor site, the addition of 
10 Gy of TBI as a component of high-dose chemotherapy with ABMT improved local 
control compared with CC without TBI. Results suggest a dose-response 
relationship for local EBRT. Short-term toxicity of local EBRT is limited.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(02)04506-6
PMID: 12694821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):126-35. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00095-6.

Tolerance of organs at risk in small-volume, hypofractionated, image-guided 
radiotherapy for primary and metastatic lung cancers.

Onimaru R(1), Shirato H, Shimizu S, Kitamura K, Xu B, Fukumoto S, Chang TC, 
Fujita K, Oita M, Miyasaka K, Nishimura M, Dosaka-Akita H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, Sapporo, 
Japan. oni@radi.med.hokudai.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To determine the organ at risk and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 
radiation that could be delivered to lung cancer using small-volume, 
image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) using hypofractionated, coplanar, and 
noncoplanar multiple fields.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with measurable lung cancer (except small-cell 
lung cancer) 6 cm or less in diameter for whom surgery was not indicated were 
eligible for this study. Internal target volume was determined using averaged CT 
under normal breathing, and for patients with large respiratory motion, using 
two additional CT scans with breath-holding at the expiratory and inspiratory 
phases in the same table position. Patients were localized at the isocenter 
after three-dimensional treatment planning. Their setup was corrected by 
comparing two linacographies that were orthogonal at the isocenter with 
corresponding digitally reconstructed images. Megavoltage X-rays using 
noncoplanar multiple static ports or arcs were used to cover the parenchymal 
tumor mass. Prophylactic nodal irradiation was not performed. The radiation dose 
was started at 60 Gy in 8 fractions over 2 weeks (60 Gy/8 Fr/2 weeks) for 
peripheral lesions 3.0 cm or less, and at 48 Gy/8 Fr/2 weeks at the isocenter 
for central lesions or tumors more than 3.0 cm at their greatest dimension.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven lesions in 45 patients were treated. Tumor size ranged from 
0.6 to 6.0 cm, with a median of 2.6 cm. Using the starting dose, 1 patient with 
a central lesion died of a radiation-induced ulcer in the esophagus after 
receiving 48 Gy/8 Fr at isocenter. Although the contour of esophagus received 
80% or less of the prescribed dose in the planning, recontouring of esophagus in 
retrospective review revealed that 1 cc of esophagus might have received 42.5 
Gy, with the maximum dose of 50.5 Gy. One patient with a peripheral lesion 
experienced Grade 2 pain at the internal chest wall or visceral pleura after 
receiving 54 Gy/8 Fr. No adverse respiratory reaction was noted in the symptoms 
or respiratory function tests. The 3-year local control rate was 80.4% +/- 7.1% 
(a standard error) with a median follow-up period of 17 months for survivors. 
Because of the Grade 5 toxicity, we have halted this Phase I/II study and are 
planning to rearrange the protocol setting accordingly. The 3-year local control 
rate was 69.6 +/- 10.6% for patients who received 48 Gy and 100% for patients 
who received 60 Gy (p = 0.0442).
CONCLUSIONS: Small-volume IGRT using 60 Gy in eight fractions is highly 
effective for the local control of lung tumors, but MTD has not been determined 
in this study. The organs at risk are extrapleural organs such as the esophagus 
and internal chest wall/visceral pleura rather than the pulmonary parenchyma in 
the present protocol setting. Consideration of the uncertainty in the contouring 
of normal structures is critically important, as is uncertainty in setup of 
patients and internal organ in the high-dose hypofractionated IGRT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00095-6
PMID: 12694831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):169-76. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00078-6.

Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy for paranasal sinus carcinoma: clinical 
results for 25 patients.

Padovani L(1), Pommier P, Clippe S S, Martel-Lafay I, Malet C, Poupart M, 
Zrounba P, Ceruse P, Desmes S, Carrie C, Montbarbon X, Ginestet C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.

PURPOSE: To assess local control, survival, and clinical and dosimetric 
prognostic factors in 25 patients with locally advanced maxillary or ethmoid 
sinus carcinoma treated by three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (RT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Surgery was performed in 22 patients and was 
macroscopically complete in 16. Seven patients received chemotherapy 
(concomitant with RT in four). The following quality indexes were defined for 
the 95% and 90% isodoses: tumor conformity index, normal tissue conformity 
index, and global conformity index.
RESULTS: The median radiation dose to the planned treatment volume was 63 Gy, 
with a minimal dose of 60 Gy, except in 2 patients whose cancer progressed 
during RT. The maximal doses tolerated by the structures involved in vision were 
respected, except for tumors that involved the optic nerve. After a median 
follow-up of 25 months, 14 local tumor recurrences developed. The major 
prognostic factors were central nervous system involvement by disease and the 
presence of nonresectable tumors. The radiation dose and tumor conformity index 
value were not significant prognostic indicators. Two patients died of acute 
infectious toxicity, and two developed late ipsilateral ocular toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Improving local control remains the main challenge in RT for 
paranasal tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00078-6
PMID: 12694835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):177-83. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00074-9.

Linear accelerator-based stereotactic radiosurgery for limited, locally 
persistent, and recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma: efficacy and complications.

Chua DT(1), Sham JS, Kwong PW, Hung KN, Leung LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary 
Hospital, Hong Kong SAR, China. dttchua@hkucc.hku.hk

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy and complication of linear accelerator-based 
stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) when used as salvage treatment for early-stage 
persistent and recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) after primary 
radiotherapy (RT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between March 1998 and June 2001, 18 patients (15 men and 
3 women; median age 46 years, range 32-84) with locally persistent or recurrent 
NPC confined to the nasopharynx (rT1) or with limited extension to the nasal 
fossa or parapharyngeal space (rT2) were treated by SRS. Thirteen patients had 
rT1 disease and 5 had rT2 disease. Most patients had disease not amenable to 
surgery or brachytherapy. All patients had undergone previous radical RT. 
Persistent disease was defined as tumor relapse within 4 months of completion of 
primary RT, and recurrence as tumor relapse beyond 4 months. Seven patients were 
treated for persistent disease, eight for a first recurrence, and three for a 
second recurrence. SRS was performed using multiple noncoplanar arcs of photons 
delivered to the target volume, which was defined by axial CT at a 3 mm 
thickness, supplemented by MRI in selected patients (67%). The median target 
volume was 5.3 cm(3) (range 2.2-16.9). The median SRS dose was 12.5 Gy (range 
11-14) delivered to the 80% isodose line. All patients underwent serial 
nasopharyngoscopy and imaging after SRS. The median follow-up was 26 months 
(range 11-48).
RESULTS: After SRS, 16 (89%) of 18 patients had complete regression of tumor as 
assessed by nasopharyngoscopy and biopsy. Four patients with an initial complete 
response to SRS subsequently developed local relapse again, with one recurrence 
developing outside the target volume 8 months after SRS and three within the 
target volume at 6-26 months after SRS. Two patients with local disease 
controlled by SRS developed relapse in other sites (neck node and liver 
metastases). The actuarial 2-year local control rate after SRS was 72%. Patients 
treated for persistent disease had a better local control rate (100%; 7 of 7) 
than those treated for recurrent disease (46%; 5 of 11). Patients with rT1 
disease also had a better outcome after SRS compared with those with rT2 
disease, with a control rate of 77% (10 of 13) for rT1 disease and 40% (2 of 5) 
for rT2 disease. Treatments were well tolerated, with no acute side effects. One 
patient had radiologic evidence of temporal lobe necrosis, although the right 
temporal lobe had already received a high dose during prior RT. That patient 
also developed additional local recurrence and liver metastases and died. The 
actuarial 2-year survival rate was 86%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary results indicate that SRS is an effective treatment 
modality for persistent and recurrent early-stage NPC, with early control rates 
comparable to other salvage treatments such as brachytherapy and 
nasopharyngectomy. A modest SRS dose at 12.5 Gy also appears to be effective and 
is associated with minimal morbidities. More clinical experience and longer 
follow-up are needed to validate our results and to address fully the role of 
SRS in salvaging local failures of NPC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00074-9
PMID: 12694836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):208-12. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00084-1.

Rotational 3D-conformal radiation therapy (conformation therapy) combined with 
hormone therapy for the treatment of stage B2/C prostate cancer in Japanese men.

Karasawa K(1), Kaizu T, Niibe Y, Igaki H, Shinohara M, Tanaka Y, Matsuda T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tokyo Metropolitan Komagome Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
karasawa-k@komagome-hospital.bunkyo.tokyo.ip

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: In our institution, rotational 3D-conformal radiation 
therapy (also called conformation therapy) has been applied since the late 1970s 
to conform the target volume of high-dose radiation to the cancerous tissue 
while minimizing radiation to the surrounding normal tissues. This technique has 
been used most commonly to treat prostate cancers in combination with hormonal 
therapy. The results of Stage B2/C prostate cancer treated with this method were 
analyzed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1987 and 1997, 33 cases of prostate cancer were 
definitively treated with this method: 9 Stage B2 tumors and 24 Stage C tumors. 
Of these 33 tumors, 3 were well differentiated, 18 were moderately 
differentiated, and 12 were poorly differentiated. The average patient age was 
75.6 years. The median pretreatment PSA value was 23.8 ng/ml. The total 
radiation dose ranged from 60 Gy to 70 Gy (average: 63.5 Gy) with conventional 
fractionation. Hormone therapy was administered permanently; the primary 
hormonal agent was diethylstilbestrol phosphate.
RESULTS: The overall survival rate after 5 years was 58.2% and that after 10 
years was 29.6%. The biochemical relapse-free rate after 5 years was 87.0% and 
that after 10 years was still 87.0%. There were 4 cases of biochemical failure, 
but no cases of death from prostate cancer. Stage, differentiation, and 
pretreatment PSA value were not prognostic factors. One of the 2 cases with 
delayed complications was a case of RTOG Grade 3 gastrointestinal complication.
CONCLUSIONS: Rotational 3D-conformal radiation therapy combined with hormone 
therapy might be promising for the treatment of prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00084-1
PMID: 12694840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):213-20. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00081-6.

High-dose-rate brachytherapy as monotherapy for localized prostate cancer: a 
retrospective analysis with special focus on tolerance and chronic toxicity.

Yoshioka Y(1), Nose T, Yoshida K, Oh RJ, Yamada Y, Tanaka E, Yamazaki H, Inoue 
T, Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Multidisciplinary Radiotherapy, Osaka University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. yoshioka@radonc.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To examine retrospectively fractionated high-dose-rate brachytherapy as 
monotherapy for localized prostate cancer with special focus on tolerance and 
toxicity, especially chronic toxicity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between May 1995 and October 2001, 43 patients with 
localized prostate cancer were treated with high-dose-rate brachytherapy without 
external beam irradiation at Osaka University Hospital. The stage was T1, T2, 
T3, and T4 in 8, 14, 18, and 3 patients, respectively. The adenocarcinoma was 
well, moderately, or poorly differentiated in 12, 16, and 15 patients, 
respectively. The median initial prostate-specific antigen level was 19.3 ng/mL 
(range 3.8-233.0). Thirty-eight patients also received hormonal therapy. 
Metallic needles were implanted transperineally under real-time ultrasound 
guidance, followed by a dose optimization program. Patients were irradiated 
twice daily at intervals of >6 h. A total dose of 54 Gy in nine fractions within 
5 days (48 Gy in eight fractions within 5 days for the first 7 cases) was 
administered in one implant session. The median follow-up was 24 months (range 
1-76).
RESULTS: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group acute toxicity of Grade 4, 2, and 1 
occurred in 1 (2%), 12 (28%), and 8 (19%) patients, respectively. Five patients 
had late toxicity: one with rectal ulcer (Grade 2) and four with rectal bleeding 
(Grade 1). The volume receiving 100% of the prescribed dose showed significant 
correlations with the incidence of acute and chronic toxicities (p = 0.005 and p 
= 0.014, respectively). The 3-year actuarial overall survival, local control, 
and biochemical no evidence of disease rate was 94%, 100%, and 55%, 
respectively. The crude biochemical control rate for low, intermediate, and 
high-risk patients was 100% (5 of 5), 80% (8 of 10), and 61% (17 of 28), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: High-dose-rate brachytherapy as monotherapy was found to be 
feasible and well tolerated. It showed a low chronic toxicity rate without any 
event of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group of Grade 3 or greater.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00081-6
PMID: 12694841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2003 May 1;56(1):296-303. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00089-0.

Conformal irradiation for pure and mixed oligodendroglioma: the experience of 
Centre Leon Berard Lyon.

Sunyach MP(1), Pommier P, Martel Lafay I, Guyotat J, Ginestet G, Jouanneau E, 
Jouvet A, Sindou M, Bret P, Carrie C, Frappaz D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Centre Leon Berard, Lyon, France. 
SUNYACH@lyon.fnclcc.fr

PURPOSE: To assess whether conformal radiotherapy (CRT) after incomplete surgery 
or biopsy for pure oligodendrogliomas and mixed gliomas results in decreased 
long-term sequelae without impairing local control and while reducing irradiated 
volume.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-six consecutive patients who presented with pure 
(21) or mixed (5) oligodendrogliomas and who were given incomplete resections 
were treated according 3 different strategies: CRT alone (12), chemotherapy 
followed by CRT (4), and chemotherapy and delayed CRT at the time of tumor 
progression (10). CRT consisted of multiple noncoplanar fields. Median dose was 
60 Gy. Quality of CRT was assessed using tumor and normal tissue conformal 
indexes. The location of recurrences was assessed with MRI and dosimetric data. 
Late sequelae were assessed by a questionnaire exploring professional outcome, 
and also by a Mini Mental State Examination test.
RESULTS: The mean overall survival was 5.2 years. Fifteen patients experienced a 
local relapse. All but 1 occurred in the 95% isodose. Among 11 nonevolutive 
patients, 6 have a full-time or part-time job.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite CRT, infield recurrence was a common feature in patients 
with oligodendrogliomas and mixed tumors. Further research, including molecular 
biology typing of tumors and type of treatment, is warranted to improve survival 
and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(03)00089-0
PMID: 12694851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Am J Med Sci. 2003 Apr;325(4):163-7. doi: 10.1097/00000441-200304000-00002.

Cardiovascular mortality in end-stage renal disease.

Collins AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Analytical Services, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55404, USA. 
acollins@nephrology.org

Cardiovascular disease accounts for more than 50% of end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) deaths. The reported cardiovascular death rates in patients receiving 
dialysis are substantially higher than in the general population. Cardiovascular 
mortality in ESRD is particularly high after acute myocardial infarction, but it 
is also elevated in ESRD patients with other forms of atherosclerotic vascular 
disease (eg, chronic coronary artery disease, strokes, transient ischemic 
attacks, and peripheral arterial disease). Left ventricular hypertrophy and 
dilation are associated with increased cardiovascular mortality, as is 
congestive heart failure. One of the major reasons for such high cardiovascular 
mortality in ESRD is the large burden of cardiovascular disease present in 
patients with chronic artery disease before renal replacement therapy. These 
observations mandate not only aggressive diagnosis and treatment of 
cardiovascular disease in patients with ESRD, but also active screening, 
diagnosis, and treatment in those with chronic kidney disease before renal 
replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-200304000-00002
PMID: 12695721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2003 Jan-Feb;77(1):11-36.

[Health risk from active and passive smoking].

[Article in Spanish]

von Eyben FE(1), Zeeman G.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación Médica, Condado de Ringkoebing, Dinamarca.

This study reviews and updates the health risks of cigarette smoking, based on 
the studies conducted in European countries, stressing cigarette smoking at the 
workplace. A review is made of the risks for both sexes, the impact on life 
expectancy, the advantages of quitting smoking, the social pattern of cigarette 
smoking in Western societies and the social differences in the diseases caused 
thereby. A description is also provided of the immediate and long-range effects 
of passive smoking, the consequences of passive smoking at the workplace and the 
methods for measuring Environmental Tobacco Smoke.

PMID: 12696387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2003;37(1):42-9.

[A model of ecological hazard and social tension for the description of the 
health deterioration risk in the Russian population].

[Article in Russian]

Shafirkin AV.

A model for quantitative evaluation of risks from long-exposure to 
high-intensity anthropogenic factors and chronic psychoemotional stress is 
presented. The model has been based on the concept of G. Seliet concerning the 
development of non-specific physiological reactions (the general adaptation 
syndrome) to chronic comparatively intensive stresses. It describes the process 
of time-dependent depletion of the compensatory body reserve and the probability 
of regulation disorders and disruption of the adaptation to single factors or 
their combinations. On the population level, health risks predicted with the 
model are growth of death probability within a year and in a delayed period 
(transformation of age-specific coefficients of mortality) and a magnitude of 
reduction of remaining life expectancy.

PMID: 12696500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(7):501-12. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200321070-00005.

Economic evaluation of orlistat in overweight and obese patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus.

Maetzel A(1), Ruof J, Covington M, Wolf A.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. maetzel@uhnres.utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the economic value of pharmacological treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in overweight and obese patients using orlistat in addition to 
standard diabetes therapy (i.e., a sulphonlyurea, metformin or insulin) and 
weight management strategies as compared with standard diabetes therapy and 
weight management strategies alone in a US-based healthcare setting. The 
perspective of the study was from the viewpoint of a US healthcare provider.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Markov state transition model simulating diabetes-related 
complications and mortality for a period of 11 years. Patients were modelled to 
continue orlistat therapy for a 52-week period, assuming a 3-year period of 
weight regain where after 3 years bodyweight would match that of the placebo 
group. The impact of orlistat on glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) values was 
evaluated directly using data from four randomised, placebo-controlled, 1-year 
trials of orlistat in overweight or obese adults with type 2 diabetes who also 
received standard diabetes pharmacotherapy and intensive lifestyle modification. 
Incidence rates of micro- and macrovascular complications associated with type 2 
diabetes and the estimated relative reduction in incidence rates associated with 
a decrease in mean updated HbA(1C) values were derived from the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) estimates for a reference population of male 
patients, 52 years of age. US cost estimates were derived from published sources 
and presented in 2001 US dollars. Discounting of 3% was applied. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was applied to evaluate the robustness of the results of 
the persistence of the effect of orlistat after treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Average costs and event-free life-years gained during the 
11-year period expressed as the incremental costs divided by the incremental 
gain in life expectancy.
RESULTS: Treatment with orlistat, 120 mg three times daily, increased event-free 
life expectancy by 0.13 years over an 11-year period. Average treatment costs 
were estimated to be 19,987 US dollars in the orlistat group compared with 
18,865 US dollars in the group that received diabetes medication and weight 
management alone. This translated into a cost-effectiveness ratio of 8327 US 
dollars per event-free life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Adding orlistat as a pharmacological treatment to conventional 
diabetes and weight management approaches seems to be a cost-effective treatment 
option for overweight and obese patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321070-00005
PMID: 12696990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Postgrad Med J. 2003 Mar;79(929):147-50. doi: 10.1136/pmj.79.929.147.

Introduction to health economics for the medical practitioner.

Kernick DP(1).

Author information:
(1)St Thomas' Medical Group, Exeter, UK. su1838@eclipse.co.uk

Against a background of increasing demands on limited resources, health 
economics is exerting an influence on decision making at all levels of health 
care. Health economics seeks to facilitate decision making by offering an 
explicit decision making framework based on the principle of efficiency. It is 
not the only consideration but it is an important one and practitioners will 
need to have an understanding of its basic principles and how it can impact on 
clinical decision making. This article reviews some of the basic principles of 
health economics and in particular economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1136/pmj.79.929.147
PMCID: PMC1742631
PMID: 12697913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Crit Care Clin. 2003 Apr;19(2):253-70. doi: 10.1016/s0749-0704(02)00050-7.

Geriatric critical care.

Nagappan R(1), Parkin G.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Monash Medical Centre, 246, Clayton Road, Melbourne, 
VIC-3168, Australia. ramesh@bigpond.net.au

Demographic compulsions are inescapable. There has been a 50% increase in life 
expectancy at birth for persons born in 1980 compared to those born in 1900. Not 
only do critical care units utilize up to a third of hospital expenditures and 
about 1% of GNP, the critically ill elderly consume a disproportionate amount of 
ICU resources. Outcome prediction models for very elderly critically ill 
patients have been proposed with age as one of numerous model variables; but 
such models have not been widely validated. Despite the burgeoning emphasis on 
evidence-based population approach to health care, there is insufficient 
research to guide the critical care clinician. There remains a modicum of 
subjectivity in crucial decisions that affect the elderly patient receiving 
intensive care. Older age is also one of the factors that lead to a physician 
bias in refusing ICU admission; this has recently been borne out in a 
multivariate analysis. Physicians generally consider their older patients' 
quality of life to be worse than do the patients, although other studies that 
have assessed the quality of live show no age-related differences among ICU 
survivors. Furthermore, physicians' estimations of patient quality of life 
significantly influence physicians' attitudes to futility of care issues, in 
contrast to patients' perceptions. Threshold for life-sustaining treatment in 
the elderly will continue to be different among the ICUs. In critical care of 
the elderly, geography may well be destiny. Clinical decisions will be subjected 
to many ethical, legal, and socioeconomic pressures. Personal and religious 
beliefs will inevitably influence societal expectations and clinician practices. 
Severity of illness has the biggest influence on outcome in a critical illness. 
Age alone is not a predictor of short-term or long-term outcome in the older 
patient who is critically ill. Critical illness in the elderly remains a fertile 
area for future research.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0704(02)00050-7
PMID: 12699322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Neurosurgery. 2003 May;52(5):1212-5; discussion 1215-6.

Leptomeningeal hemangioblastomatosis in a case of von Hippel-Lindau disease: 
case report.

Reyns N(1), Assaker R, Louis E, Lejeune JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Centre Hospitalier Régional et Universitaire de 
Lille, Lille, France. n-reyns@chru-lille.fr

OBJECTIVE AND IMPORTANCE: We report a unique case of extended leptomeningeal 
hemangioblastomatosis in a patient presenting with clinical von Hippel-Lindau 
disease.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION: A 50-year-old male patient had a history of three 
surgical procedures for the removal of a cerebellar hemangioblastoma, initially 
considered to be a recurrence of a sporadic form at the same location. Seven 
years after the last operation, he developed chronic hydrocephalus. Despite a 
ventriculoperitoneal shunt procedure, he experienced progressive worsening of 
gait disturbances, associated with touch numbness of the lower limbs and 
Parinaud's syndrome. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and spine showed 
evidence of leptomeningeal contrast enhancement around the brainstem, spinal 
cord, and cauda equina and enlarged tortuous vessels around the mesencephalon.
INTERVENTION: A lumbar laminectomy allowed a leptomeningeal biopsy. Pathological 
examination revealed leptomeningeal spread of the hemangioblastoma. It is 
assumed that the tumor arose in the pia mater and that its direction of growth 
was purely extramedullary, invading all subarachnoid spaces. The patient had a 
poor outcome as a result of progressive tetraplegia and died 6 months after 
diagnosis as a result of respiratory failure.
CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, the clinical course of our patient, 
consistent with a thick leptomeningeal spread of hemangioblastoma from the 
posterior fossa to the sacrum, is unique. Nevertheless, the short life 
expectancy of our patient is usual in von Hippel-Lindau disease. This case 
report illustrates the crucial challenge to develop a specific drug therapy 
related to angiogenesis in von Hippel-Lindau disease.

PMID: 12699568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Med Hypotheses. 2003 Jun;60(6):924-9. doi: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00097-5.

Does dietary sugar and fat influence longevity?

Archer VE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, Utah 84112-5120, USA. varcher@dfpm.utah.edu

Simultaneous consideration of the influence of the different types of 
carbohydrates and fats in human diets on mortality rates (especially the 
diseases of aging), and the probable retardation of such diseases by caloric 
restriction (CR) leads to the hypothesis that restriction of foods with a high 
glycemic index and saturated or hydrogenated fats would avoid or delay many 
diseases of aging and might result in life extension. Many of the health 
benefits of CR might thereby be available to humans without the side effects or 
unacceptability of semi-starvation diets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00097-5
PMID: 12699727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Lancet. 2003 Apr 12;361(9365):1281-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12987-X.

Down's syndrome.

Roizen NJ(1), Patterson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY 
13210, USA. roizenn@upstate.edu <roizenn@upstate.edu>

Comment in
    Lancet. 2003 Jul 5;362(9377):80-1.
    Lancet. 2003 Jul 5;362(9377):81.

The sequencing of chromosome 21 and the use of models of Down's syndrome in mice 
have allowed us to relate genes and sets of genes to the neuropathogenesis of 
this syndrome, and to better understand its phenotype. Research in prenatal 
screening and diagnosis aims to find methods to identify fetuses with Down's 
syndrome, and reduce or eliminate the need for amniocentesis. Other areas of 
active research and clinical interest include the association of Down's syndrome 
with coeliac disease and Alzheimer's disease, and improved median age of death. 
Medical management of the syndrome requires an organised approach of assessment, 
monitoring, prevention, and vigilance. Improvements in quality of life of 
individuals with Down's syndrome have resulted from improvements in medical 
care, identification and treatment of psychiatric disorders (such as depression, 
disruptive behaviour disorders, and autism), and early educational interventions 
with support in typical educational settings. Approaches and outcomes differ 
throughout the world.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12987-X
PMID: 12699967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):318. doi:
10.1136/jech.57.5.318.

The relevance of population health indicators.

Robine JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Demographie et Sante, Val d'Aurelle Parc Euromedecine, Montpellier cedex 5, 
34298, France. robine@valdorel.fnclcc.fr

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):344-6.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.57.5.318
PMCID: PMC1732457
PMID: 12700210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):319. doi:
10.1136/jech.57.5.319.

Infant mortality is not an adequate summary measure of population health.

Mathers CD(1), Salomon JA, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Evidence and Information for Policy, World Health Organisation, 1211 Geneva 
27, Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):344-6.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.57.5.319
PMCID: PMC1732459
PMID: 12700211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):344-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.57.5.344.

Infant mortality rate as an indicator of population health.

Reidpath DD(1), Allotey P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Deakin University, Burwood, Australia. 
reidpath@deakin.edu.au

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):318.
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 May;57(5):319.

BACKGROUND: The infant mortality rate (IMR) has been criticised as a measure of 
population health because it is narrowly based and likely to focus the attention 
of health policy on a small part of the population to the exclusion of the rest. 
More comprehensive measures such as disability adjusted life expectancy (DALE) 
have come into favour as alternatives. These more comprehensive measures of 
population health, however, are more complex, and for resource poor countries, 
this added burden could mean diverting funds from much needed programmes. 
Unfortunately, the conjecture, that DALE is a better measure of population 
health than IMR, has not been empirically tested.
METHODS: IMR and DALE data for 1997 were obtained from the World Bank and the 
World Health Organisation, respectively, for 180 countries.
FINDINGS: There is a strong (generally) linear association between DALE and IMR 
(r=0.91). Countries with low DALE tend to have a high IMR. The countries with 
the lowest IMRs had DALEs above that predicted by the regression line.
INTERPRETATION: There is little evidence that the use of IMR as a measure of 
population health has a negative impact on older groups in the population. IMR 
remains an important indicator of health for whole populations, reflecting the 
intuition that structural factors affecting the health of entire populations 
have an impact on the mortality rate of infants. For countries with limited 
resources that require an easily calculated, pithy measure of population health, 
IMR may remain a suitable choice.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.57.5.344
PMCID: PMC1732453
PMID: 12700217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Toxicol Sci. 2003 May;73(1):60-5. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfg049. Epub 2003 Apr
15.

Caenorhabditis elegans mutants resistant to phosphine toxicity show increased 
longevity and cross-resistance to the synergistic action of oxygen.

Cheng Q(1), Valmas N, Reilly PE, Collins PJ, Kopittke R, Ebert PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of 
Queensland, St. Lucia, Australia.

Phosphine (hydrogen phosphide, PH3) is the fumigant most widely used to protect 
stored products from pest infestation. Despite the importance of this chemical, 
little is known about its mode of action. We have created three 
phosphine-resistant lines (pre-1, pre-7, pre-33) in the model organism C. 
elegans, with LC50 values 2, 5, and 9 times greater than the fully susceptible 
parental strain. Molecular oxygen was shown to be an extremely effective 
synergist with phosphine as, under hyperoxic conditions, 100% mortality was 
observed in wild-type nematodes exposed to 0.1 mg/l phosphine, a nonlethal 
concentration in air. All three mutants were resistant to the synergistic 
effects of oxygen in proportion to their resistance to phosphine with one 
mutant, pre-33, showing complete resistance to this synergism. We take the 
proportionality of cross-resistance between phosphine and the synergistic effect 
of oxygen to imply that all three mutants circumvent a mechanism of phosphine 
toxicity that is directly coupled to oxygen metabolism. Compared with the 
wild-type strain, all three mutants have an extended average life expectancy of 
from 12.5 to 25.3%. This is consistent with the proposed involvement of 
oxidative stress in both phosphine toxicity and ageing. Because the wild-type 
and mutant nematodes develop at the same rate, the longevity is unlikely to be 
caused by a clk-type reduction in oxidative metabolism, a potential alternative 
mechanism of phosphine resistance.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfg049
PMID: 12700416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Rev Saude Publica. 2003 Apr;37(2):191-6. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102003000200005.  Epub 2003 Apr 4.

[Trends in mortality due to respiratory diseases in elderly, Brazil, 1980 to 
1998].

[Article in Portuguese]

Francisco PM(1), Donalisio MR, Lattorre Mdo R.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, 
SP, Brasil. pricila@nepo.unicamp.br

INTRODUCTION: The increase in life expectancy and the decline in mortality rates 
in Brazil have an impact on social programs to the elderly, especially related 
to health care. The objective of the study isto analyze the mortality trends for 
respiratory diseases in elderly.
METHODS: An ecological time series was carried out and mortality data was 
obtained from the Mortality Information System of the Ministry of Health 
(SIM/MS-DATA-SUS). it was analyzed the time trends of standardized mortality 
rates according to age groups (60 to 69, 70 to 79 and 80 years old and more) and 
gender, using linear regression models. The proportional mortality for this 
disease group compared to all causes of death was also studied.
RESULTS: There were increasing trends for mortality rates in both sexes, 
especially among males. The proportion of deaths due to respiratory diseases was 
higher among older ages.
CONCLUSION: Respiratory diseases are one of the main causes of hospitalization 
and death in the elderly population. Prevention and care for elderly, as well as 
further etiology studies should be a priority in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102003000200005
PMID: 12700840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Dev Dyn. 2003 May;227(1):91-103. doi: 10.1002/dvdy.10296.

Local activation of protein kinase A inhibits morphogenetic movements during 
Xenopus gastrulation.

Song BH(1), Choi SC, Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and 
Technology, San 31, Hyoja Dong, Pohang, Kyungbuk, South Korea.

cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) has various biological roles in many 
organisms. However, little is known about its role in the developmental 
processes of vertebrates. In this study, we describe the functional analysis of 
PKA during gastrulation movements in Xenopus laevis. Overexpression of 
constitutively active PKA (cPKA) in the dorsal equatorial region of the embryo 
affects morphogenetic movement during gastrulation. We also show that intrinsic 
differences of PKA activities along the dorsoventral axis are set up and the 
level of PKA activity on the dorsal region is lower than that on the ventral 
region from late blastula to gastrula stages. In addition, PKA activation in 
animal explants inhibits activin-induced elongation. In cPKA-injected embryos, 
there were no changes in the expressions of markers involved in mesoderm 
specification, although the correct expression domains of these genes were 
altered. The effects of PKA activation can be restored by coexpression of PKI, a 
pseudosubstrate of PKA. We further analyzed the effects of PKA activation on the 
behavior of migratory gastrulating cells in vitro. Expression of cPKA in head 
mesoderm cells causes less polarized and/or randomized migration as demonstrated 
by a directional cell migration assay. Finally, we show that RhoA GTPase lies 
downstream of PKA, affecting activin-induced convergent extension movements. 
Taken together, these results suggest that overexpressed PKA can modulate a 
pathway responsible for morphogenetic movements during Xenopus gastrulation.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.10296
PMID: 12701102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Mar 17;165(12):1252.

[Depression--burden of disease, diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Danish]

Kessing LV(1), Videbech P.

Author information:
(1)Psykiatrisk Klinik, H:S Rigshospitalet, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 København ø. 
lars.kessing@rh.dk

PMID: 12701302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2003 Winter;19(1):28-40. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462303000047.

Crucial factors that influence cost-effectiveness of universal hepatitis B 
immunization in India.

Prakash C(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, USA. charu_prakash@vsnl.com

This study examines the parameters crucial to cost-effectiveness of universal 
hepatitis B immunization in India. An incremental cost-effectiveness analysis 
was done using a decision tree (Markov model) to follow up a hypothetical cohort 
of 100,000 newborns for the effects of hepatitis B acquired vertically at birth. 
The measure of effectiveness was disability-adjusted life-years gained. 
Uncertainty analysis and Scenario analysis were done using Latin hypercube 
sampling. Hepatitis B endemicity is the most important factor, followed by the 
cost of vaccine. Other factors of some influence are vaccination coverage, 
vaccine efficacy, HBeAg positivity, and vaccine wastage.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462303000047
PMID: 12701937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. QJM. 2003 May;96(5):355-62. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcg059.

Admission diagnosis of cerebral malaria in adults in an endemic area of 
Tanzania: implications and clinical description.

Makani J(1), Matuja W, Liyombo E, Snow RW, Marsh K, Warrell DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Muhimbili University College of Health 
Sciences, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. jmakani@muchs.ac.tz

Comment in
    QJM. 2003 Sep;96(9):688.

BACKGROUND: Cerebral malaria is commonly diagnosed in adults in endemic areas in 
Africa, both in hospitals and in the community. This presents a paradox 
inconsistent with the epidemiological understanding that the development of 
immunity during childhood confers protection against severe disease in adult 
life.
AIM: To establish the contribution of Plasmodium falciparum infection in adults 
admitted with neurological dysfunction in an endemic area, to assess the 
implications of an admission clinical diagnosis of 'cerebral malaria' on the 
treatment and clinical outcome, and to describe the clinical features of 
patients with malaria parasitaemia.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
METHODS: We studied adult patients admitted with neurological dysfunction to 
Muhimbili National Hospital, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania from October 2000 to July 
2001. A full blood count was done and serum creatinine, blood glucose and P. 
falciparum parasite load were measured.
RESULTS: Of 199 patients (median age 34.6 years), 38% were diagnosed as 
'cerebral malaria' on admission, but only 7.5% had detectable parasitaemia, 
giving a positive predictive value of 13.3%. Only 1% fulfilled the WHO criteria 
for cerebral malaria. The prevalence of parasitaemia (7.5%) was less than that 
observed in a group of asymptomatic controls (9.3%), but distribution of 
parasite densities was higher in the patients. Mortality was higher in patients 
with no parasitaemia (22.3%) than in those with parasitaemia (13%).
DISCUSSION: Cerebral malaria was grossly overdiagnosed, resulting in unnecessary 
treatment and insufficient investigation of other possible diagnoses, which 
could lead to higher mortality. Extension of this misperception to the 
assessment of cause of death in community surveys may lead to an overestimation 
of the impact of malaria in adults.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcg059
PMCID: PMC5612393
PMID: 12702784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2003 Mar;27(3 Suppl):S76-80.

[Epidemiology and natural history of chronic inflammatory bowel disease].

[Article in French]

Lerebours E(1), Savoye G, Guedon C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépato-Gastroentérologie et de Nutrition. Groupe ADEN. 
eric.lerebours@chu-rouen.fr

PMID: 12704299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2003 Mar-Apr;26(3):202-6. doi: 
10.1016/S0161-4754(02)54132-4.

A structural chiropractic approach to the management of diffuse idiopathic 
skeletal hyperostosis.

Troyanovich SJ(1), Buettner M.

Author information:
(1)Adjunct Research Facility, Life Chiropractic College-West, Hayward, CA, USA. 
drtroy@davesworld.net

OBJECTIVE: To discuss a unique method of treatment for a patient with diffuse 
idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) and the long-term result of this 
treatment.
CLINICAL FEATURES: The patient had a long-standing history of low back pain and 
stiffness caused by DISH. Coexisting conditions consisted of right-hand 
paresthesia because of a thalamic stroke, osteoporosis, Barrett's esophagus, 
thyroid and parathyroid disease, and hypercholesterolemia.
INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: The patient received chiropractic manipulation and 
drop table adjustments, along with range-of-motion exercise, extension exercise, 
and standing lumbar extension traction. The magnitude of lumbar lordotic 
alignment and Ferguson's angle improved with treatment. The patient's subjective 
perception of pain significantly improved, as documented with the use of numeric 
rating scales. Flexibility and activities of daily living were also improved. 
The effect was maintained for 19 months after termination of the active 
rehabilitative treatment period.
CONCLUSION: A paucity of literature exists regarding the chiropractic management 
of patients with a diagnosis of DISH. Chiropractors should be encouraged to 
report on their clinical experiences in treating patients with varied conditions 
and disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-4754(02)54132-4
PMID: 12704313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2002 Jan-Feb;36(1):21-7. doi: 
10.1177/153857440203600105.

Ten-year outcome after saphenous vein patch angioplasty in males and females 
after carotid endarterectomy.

Chang JB(1), Stein TA.

Author information:
(1)Long Island Vascular Center, Roslyn, NY 11576, USA.

Many surgeons use a vein-patch angioplasty after endarterectomy of small (< 4 
mm) diameter carotid arteries in males and females. Because evidence suggests 
that females may have a poorer outcome than males after revascularization, the 
long-term success of carotid endarterectomy may be different among the genders. 
The 10-year outcome after a saphenous vein-patch angioplasty in females was 
studied. Endarterectomies were performed on 708 carotid arteries of 615 
patients, who had evidence of symptomatic disease or had asymptomatic greater 
than 80% stenosis. A segment of proximal greater saphenous vein was harvested 
for the patch. The 247 females had a mean age of 69.1 +/-9.8 (SD) years and a 
follow-up time of 4.0 +/-4.0 (SD) years. The 368 males had a mean age of 69.2 
+/-8.8 (SD) years and a follow-up time of 4.4 +/-4.0 (SD) years. After 
endarterectomy, survival, the ipsilateral stroke-free rates and the 
restenosis-free rates were determined by life table analyses with 73 
endarterectomies in 66 patients being at risk at 10 years. The 5- and 10-year 
survival rates in males were 81.9% and 62.2%, respectively. The 5- and 10-year 
survival rates in females were 82.6% and 73.0%, respectively. The 5- and 10-year 
ipsilateral stroke-free rates after carotid endarterectomy were 98.3% and 93.9% 
in males and 96.7% and 95.6% in females. The respective 5- and 10-year 
restenosis-free rates were 96.7% and 93.3% in males and 88.6% and 82.8% in 
females; p < 0.0002, by the Mantel-Cox test. Although survival and the incidence 
of an ipsilateral stroke were similar in females and males, the hemodynamic 
restenosis rate was higher in females. It is especially important to use routine 
duplex scanning to follow the post-endarterectomy health of the carotid artery 
in females.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440203600105
PMID: 12704521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2002 Jan-Feb;36(1):41-50. doi: 
10.1177/153857440203600108.

Subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery in patients with post-thrombotic 
venous insufficiency--is it justified?

Kalra M(1), Gloviczki P, Noel AA, Rooke TW, Lewis BD, Jenkins GD, Canton LG, 
Panneton JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Previous results following subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery were 
reported to be worse in post-thrombotic syndrome than in limbs with primary 
valvular incompetence. This report comprises a larger patient cohort with longer 
follow-up. The goal of this study was to determine if subfascial endoscopic 
perforator vein surgery is justified in patients with post-thrombotic venous 
insufficiency. The clinical data of 91 consecutive patients who underwent 
subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery with or without superficial reflux 
ablation over a 7-year period from May 1993 to June 2000 were retrospectively 
analyzed. Fifty-four females and 37 males (median age, 53 years; range, 20-77) 
underwent 103 subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery procedures. 
