Forty-two limbs were classified as C6 (active ulcer), 34 as C5 (healed ulcer), 
and 24 as C4 (lipodermatosclerosis). Thirty procedures were performed in 
post-thrombotic limbs. Concomitant superficial reflux ablation was performed in 
74 limbs (72%); saphenous vein stripping had been previously performed in 29 
(28%). Deep venous incompetence was present in 89% of limbs; 13% had venous 
outflow obstruction on plethysmography. Cumulative ulcer healing in 
post-thrombotic limbs was not significantly different from limbs with primary 
valvular incompetence; 30-, 60-, and 90-day healing rates were 44%, 72%, and 72% 
vs 39%, 70%, and 87%, respectively (p = 0.35). On univariate analysis, the 
presence of ulcer greater than 2 cm in diameter was associated with delayed 
ulcer healing (p = 0.02). Cumulative ulcer recurrence in all limbs was 4%, 20%, 
and 27% at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. Ulcer recurrence in post-thrombotic 
limbs was higher than in limbs with primary valvular incompetence at 1, 3, and 5 
years; 16%, 47%, and 56% vs 0%, 8%, and 15%, respectively (p = 0.001). Recurrent 
ulcers were small, superficial, and easier to heal. Clinical improvement was 
significant even in post-thrombotic limbs; median clinical score decreased from 
9.5 to 3 (p = 0.001), and median outcome score was +2 (mean 1.9; range, -1 to 
3). Median clinical score in patients with primary valvular incompetence 
improved from 6 to 1.5 (p = 0.0001). Subfascial endoscopic perforator vein 
surgery with superficial reflux ablation promoted ulcer healing, improved 
clinical outcome, and resulted in a low long-term ulcer recurrence rate in limbs 
with primary valvular incompetence. Despite good clinical outcome in 
post-thrombotic limbs, ulcer recurrence was high. These results imply that the 
role of subfascial endoscopic perforator vein surgery with superficial reflux 
ablation in patients with post-thrombotic limbs continues to be controversial.

DOI: 10.1177/153857440203600108
PMID: 12704524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Mar-Apr;18(2):250-7.

Immediate functional loading of Brånemark system implants in edentulous 
mandibles: clinical report of the results of developmental and simplified 
protocols.

Wolfinger GJ(1), Balshi TJ, Rangert B.

Author information:
(1)Prosthodontics Intermedica, Institute for Facial Esthetics, Fort Washington, 
Pennsylvania 19034, USA. PITeam@aol.com

PURPOSE: This report evaluates the 5-year results of 9 of 10 patients in a 
clinical investigation of immediate functional loading of Brånemark System 
implants in edentulous mandibles, and of 24 patients treated with a simplified 
protocol for the same indication. The purpose of the paper is to suggest a 
simple, reliable, and documented method for immediate implant loading of 
complete-arch mandibular prostheses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten healthy patients in need of full-arch mandibular 
implant reconstruction (development group) were treated between December 1993 
and December 1994 with 130 Brånemark System standard Implants, placed in fresh 
extraction and healed sites. Four implants per patient were immediately loaded 
with acrylic resin fixed prostheses. The prostheses were replaced by 
metal-framework conversion prostheses approximately 6 weeks later, and 
definitive metal-reinforced prostheses incorporating all implants were placed 
after second-stage surgery. An additional 24 patients were treated with a 
simplified protocol using a total of 144 implants placed between March 1997 and 
October 2000. In these patients, the acrylic resin prostheses were not disturbed 
for 3 months, and fewer implants were used with an increasing ratio of implants 
loaded. Eventually, all Implants were loaded immediately for the last patients 
treated.
RESULTS: The prosthesis survival rate was 100% for the total material. In the 
developmental group, the implant cumulative survival rate was 80% for the 
immediately loaded implants after 5 years, while the 2-stage implants reached 
96%. Bone level measurements showed no differences between immediate and 2-stage 
protocols for this group. The implant cumulative survival rate was 97% for the 
simplified treatment group.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: A predictable and simple concept for loading of 
immediate implant prostheses in edentulous mandibles was demonstrated. Results 
from the development of this technique suggest that it may be essential to 
maintain the initial implant splinting over a healing period of about 3 months 
and that implant placement between the mental foramina provides optimal support.

PMID: 12705304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(1):15-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1022556718939.

Relative and absolute gender gap in all-cause mortality in Europe and the 
contribution of smoking.

Bobak M(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centrefor Health and Society, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, University College London, London, UK. 
martinb@public-health.ucl.ac.uk

This paper examined whether international variations in absolute and relative 
gender differences in mortality are related to the overall mortality rates, and 
whether the international variation in gender gap in mortality can in part be 
explained by smoking. I used data on mortality from all causes in 32 European 
countries published by the World Health Organisation, and indirect estimates of 
mortality attributable to smoking in the age band 35-69 years by Peto et al. The 
main analyses were restricted to the age band 35-69 years but results for 
mortality at all ages were virtually identical. The overall mortality rates 
(both sexes combined) were strongly related to absolute gender differences (r = 
0.91) but only weakly to relative differences (r = 0.35). The gender gap was 
larger in eastern than in western Europe for rate differences (1005 vs. 530 per 
100,000, respectively), but it was similar for rate ratios (2.3 vs. 2.1, 
respectively). Both absolute and relative gender differences in mortality were 
strongly related to the difference between men and women in the proportion of 
all deaths attributed to tobacco (partial correlations, after controlling for 
the overall death rates, were 0.59 and 0.66, respectively). Excluding 
tobacco-related deaths attenuated the associations between the overall mortality 
rates with absolute differences (r = 0.70) and reduced the difference in the 
absolute gender gap between eastern and western Europe. More importantly, 
excluding tobacco-related deaths eliminated entirely the association with 
relative differences (r = -0.15) as well as any suggestion that the relative 
gender gap is larger in eastern than in western Europe. These results show that 
tobacco plays an important role in generating international differences in the 
size of gender gap in mortality. The much discussed association between' the 
overall life expectancy and the gender gap in life expectancy is a numerical 
product of absolute death rates (differences in life expectancy are driven by 
differences in rates). The association of overall mortality with male/female 
mortality ratios is much weaker.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022556718939
PMID: 12705618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Eur J Cancer. 2003 May;39(7):870-80. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(03)00062-5.

Geriatric oncology: a clinical approach to the older patient with cancer.

Repetto L(1), Venturino A, Fratino L, Serraino D, Troisi G, Gianni W, 
Pietropaolo M.

Author information:
(1)U.O. Oncologia Istituto Nazionale di Riposo e Cura per Anziani (INRCA), Via 
Cassia 1167, 00189 Rome, Italy. l.repetto@inrca.it

Due to the ageing of the population and the sharp increase in life expectancy, 
cancer in the older person has become an increasingly common problem in the 
Western world. Although several authors have stressed that elderly cancer 
patients deserve special attention as a target group for research efforts, older 
aged patients are still less likely to be offered participation in clinical 
trials. The cellular and molecular mechanisms regulating the physiological 
process of ageing and senescence are far from understood, although inflammation 
is likely to play an important role, at least in some cancers. In addition, the 
relationship between ageing and cancer risk is also far from understood. One of 
the most intriguing aspects of ageing is how different the ageing process is 
from person to person; the basis for this variation is largely unknown. 
Population-based studies and longitudinal surveys have shown that comorbidity 
and physical and mental functioning are important risk factors; thus, a 
meaningful assessment of comorbidity and disability should be implemented in 
clinical practice. Modern geriatrics is targeted towards patients with multiple 
problems. Such patients are not simply old, but are geriatric patients because 
of interacting psychosocial and physical problems. As a consequence, the health 
status of old persons cannot be evaluated by merely describing the single 
disease, and/or by measuring the response, or survival after treatment. 
Conversely, it is necessary to conduct a more comprehensive investigation of the 
'functional status' of the aged person. A geriatric consultation provides a 
variety of relevant information and enables the healthcare team to manage the 
complexity of health care in the elderly; this process is referred to as the 
Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA). The use of CGA is now being introduced 
into oncological practice. The definition of frailty is still controversial and 
represents a major issue of debate in clinical geriatrics. As the frail 
population increases, clinical trials in frail persons are needed. The 
usefulness of these trials requires a consensus as to the definition of frailty. 
Clearly, the management of older persons with cancer requires the acquisition of 
special skills in the evaluation of the older person and in the recognition and 
management of emergencies as well as experience in geriatric case management.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(03)00062-5
PMID: 12706355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2002 Jun 14;114(10-11):355-6.

[Aging society--triumph or challenge?].

[Article in German]

Pils K.

PMID: 12708087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Tunis Med. 2003 Feb;81(2):101-8.

[Clinical profile of sickle cell homozygote patient after the age of 30 years].

[Article in French]

Elira Dokekias A(1), Nzingoula S.

Author information:
(1)Service hématologie, Centre Hospitalier et Universitaire de Brazzaville, 
Congo.

The authors analyse the clinical and epidemiological profile of 63 patients with 
major Sickle cell and regularly followed up in the department of haematology of 
the National University Hospital of Brazzaville (CHU) between the 1st of January 
1993 and the 30th of June 1996. Acute vasculo occlusive crisis are rare, however 
anaemic crisis are still present. The average haemoglobin rate between crisis is 
7.86 g/dl (extreme values 5.9 to 10.8 g/dl). This study shows that despite the 
multiple complications, often degenerative, life expectancy of the homozygous 
sickle cell patient can still be improved.

PMID: 12708175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Cancer Sci. 2003 Jan;94(1):43-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2003.tb01350.x.

Urokinase-type plasminogen activator expression correlates with tumor 
angiogenesis and poor outcome in gastric cancer.

Kaneko T(1), Konno H, Baba M, Tanaka T, Nakamura S.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 1-20-1 
Handayama, Hamamatsu 431-3192. ta-kaneko@hamamatsuh.rofuku.go.jp

Urokinase plasminogen activating system (PA system) and vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF) were recently suggested to contribute synergistically to 
tumor progression. To evaluate the roles of the PA system and VEGF in gastric 
cancer, the effects of the PA system and VEGF on tumor angiogenesis and the 
survival of patients with gastric cancer were investigated. Cancer tissues from 
101 gastric cancer patients were assayed immunohistochemically for expression of 
urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), uPA receptor (uPAR), PA inhibitor-1 
(PAI-1) and VEGF protein. The positive rates of uPA, uPAR, PAI-1, VEGF 
expression were 22.8%, 32.7%, 36.6% and 26.7%, respectively. Positive staining 
was observed in tumor cells (uPA, uPAR, VEGF), or in both tumor cells and 
stromal cells (PAI-1). The expressions of uPA, uPAR, PAI-1 and VEGF were 
significantly correlated with the clinicopathological factors: uPA, depth of 
tumor invasion, differentiation, lymphatic and vascular invasion; uPAR, tumor 
size, depth, lymph node involvement, differentiation, vascular invasion; PAI-1, 
tumor size, depth, lymph node involvement, differentiation, vascular invasion; 
VEGF, differentiation, vascular invasion. The microvessel density (MVD) assessed 
immunohistochemically was significantly higher in the patients with expression 
of uPA, uPAR or VEGF, and stepwise analysis identified uPA as an independent 
correlated factor with MVD. Furthermore, multivariate analysis demonstrated that 
depth of tumor invasion, lymph node involvement and uPA expression were 
independent prognostic factors. uPA is a key factor in the PA system, being 
associated with a poor outcome of gastric cancer, and contributing not only to 
invasive activity, but also to angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2003.tb01350.x
PMID: 12708473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Cancer Sci. 2003 Feb;94(2):181-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2003.tb01416.x.

Significance of nodal metastatic tumor characteristics in nodal metastasis and 
prognosis of patients with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast.

Hasebe T(1), Sasaki S, Imoto S, Ochiai A.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Division, National Cancer Center Research Institute East, Chiba, 
6-5-1 Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8577.

There is no study evaluating the significance of nodal metastatic tumor 
characteristics in tumor progression of invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs) of the 
breast. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether nodal metastatic 
tumor characteristics play an important role in the tumor progression of IDCs. 
The subjects of this study were 205 IDC patients with nodal metastases. 
Significant associations with increased numbers of nodal metastases, and patient 
outcomes were evaluated by multivariate analyses, in comparison with well-known 
histological parameters. The numbers of lymph nodes with extra-nodal invasion 
and with extranodal blood vessel tumor emboli, the distance of extra-nodal blood 
vessel tumor emboli from the nodes, and the nodal tumor dimensions significantly 
increased the number of nodal metastases in the multivariate analysis (P<0.001). 
Cox multivariate analyses showed that the parameters which significantly 
increased hazard rates (HRs) of disease-free survival (DFS), distant organ 
metastasis (DOM) and overall survival were 6 or more mitotic figures of nodal 
metastatic tumors (P<0.05). Six or more lymph nodes with extra-nodal invasion, 
and an extra-nodal blood vessel tumor emboli dimension of >0.6 mm significantly 
increased the HRs of DFS and DOM in multivariate analyses (P<0.05). The present 
study demonstrated the important roles of nodal metastatic tumors in the tumor 
progression of IDCs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2003.tb01416.x
PMID: 12708494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. BJU Int. 2003 May;91(8):737-42. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2003.04160.x.

Urology in perspective.

Shah J(1), Whitfield HN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ashford Hospital, Middlesex, UK.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2003.04160.x
PMID: 12709085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Gen Intern Med. 2003 Apr;18(4):303-12. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20633.x.

Rapid magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosing cancer-related low back pain.

Hollingworth W(1), Gray DT, Martin BI, Sullivan SD, Deyo RA, Jarvik JG.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash. 98103, 
USA. willh@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study compared the relative efficiency of lumbar x-ray and 
rapid magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for diagnosing cancer-related low back 
pain (LBP) in primary care patients.
DESIGN: We developed a decision model with Markov state transitions to calculate 
the cost per case detected and cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of 
rapid MR imaging. Model parameters were estimated from the medical literature. 
The costs of x-ray and rapid MR were calculated in an activity-based costing 
study.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: A hypothetical cohort of primary care patients with LBP 
referred for imaging to exclude cancer as the cause of their pain.
MAIN RESULTS: The rapid MR strategy was more expensive due to higher initial 
imaging costs and larger numbers of patients requiring conventional MR and 
biopsy. The overall sensitivity of the rapid MR strategy was higher than that of 
the x-ray strategy (62% vs 55%). However, because of low pre-imaging prevalence 
of cancer-related LBP, this generates <1 extra case per 1,000 patients imaged. 
Therefore, the incremental cost per case detected using rapid MR was high 
($213,927). The rapid MR strategy resulted in a small increase in 
quality-adjusted survival (0.00043 QALYs). The estimated incremental cost per 
QALY for the rapid MR strategy was $296,176.
CONCLUSIONS: There is currently not enough evidence to support the routine use 
of rapid MR to detect cancer as a cause of LBP in primary care patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20633.x
PMCID: PMC1494841
PMID: 12709099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(9):v-vi, 1-98. doi: 10.3310/hta7090.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-utility of photodynamic therapy for wet 
age-related macular degeneration: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Meads C(1), Salas C, Roberts T, Moore D, Fry-Smith A, Hyde C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7090
PMID: 12709292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(6):1-86. doi: 10.3310/hta7060.

The cost-effectiveness of screening for Helicobacter pylori to reduce mortality 
and morbidity from gastric cancer and peptic ulcer disease: a discrete-event 
simulation model.

Roderick P(1), Davies R, Raftery J, Crabbe D, Pearce R, Bhandari P, Patel P.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Research Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton SO16 7PX, 
UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7060
PMID: 12709294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(3):1-67. doi: 10.3310/hta7030.

Systematic review and economic evaluation of the effectiveness of infliximab for 
the treatment of Crohn's disease.

Clark W(1), Raftery J, Song F, Barton P, Cummins C, Fry-Smith A, Burls A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicines Management, Keele University, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7030
PMID: 12709295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. FASEB J. 2003 Jun;17(9):1135-7. doi: 10.1096/fj.02-1022fje. Epub 2003 Apr
22.

Silencing of ubiquinone biosynthesis genes extends life span in Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Asencio C(1), Rodríguez-Aguilera JC, Ruiz-Ferrer M, Vela J, Navas P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio Andaluz de Biología, Departamento de Ciencias Ambientales, 
Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Ctra. Utrera, Km. 1, E-41013 Sevilla, Spain. 
pnavas@dex.upo.es

Ubiquinone (coenzyme Q; Q) is a key factor in the mitochondria electron 
transport chain, but it also functions as an antioxidant and as a cofactor of 
mitochondrial uncoupling proteins. Furthermore, Q isoforms balance in 
Caenorhabditis elegans is determined by both dietary intake and endogenous 
biosynthesis. In the absence of synthesis, withdrawal of dietary Q8 in adulthood 
extends life span. Thus, Q plays an important role in the aging process and 
understanding its synthesis acquires a new impetus. We have identified by RNA 
interference (RNAi) eight genes, including clk-1, involved in ubiquinone 
biosynthesis in C. elegans feeding animals with dsRNA-containing Escherichia 
coli HT115 strains. Silenced C. elegans showed lower levels of both endogenous 
Q9 and Q8 provided by diet, produced less superoxide without a significant 
modification of mitochondrial electron chain, and extended life span compared 
with non-interfered animals. E. coli strains harboring dsRNA also interfered 
with their own Q8 biosynthesis. These findings suggest that more efficient 
electron transport between a lower amount of Q and electron transport capacity 
of the mitochondrial complexes leads to less production of reactive oxygen 
species that contributes to extension of life span in the nematode C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.02-1022fje
PMID: 12709403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Valparaiso Univ Law Rev. 1998 Spring;32(2):383-418.

Cloning endangered animal species?

Blomquist RF(1).

Author information:
(1)Valparaiso University School of Law, USA.

PMID: 12710439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Prehosp Emerg Care. 2003 Apr-Jun;7(2):244-6. doi: 10.1080/10903120390936879.

Paramedic use of the endotracheal tube introducer in a difficult airway model.

Phelan MP(1), Moscati R, D'Aprix T, Miller G.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Department of Emergency Medicine, 9500 Euclid 
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. phelanm@ccf.org

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether advanced life support (ALS)-level prehospital 
providers can be taught to effectively use the Flex-Guide (FG) Endotracheal Tube 
(ETT) introducer in a difficult airway model by comparing success of styleted 
ETT intubation with Flex-Guide-assisted intubation.
METHODS: Intermediate and advanced providers, who brought patients to a Level 1 
emergency department, were given a handout and viewed an instructional video 
describing the bougie and its use. A difficult airway was simulated using the 
CPR 5000 model mannequin from Medical Plastics Laboratory, Inc. The tongue was 
inflated to a pressure of 180 mm Hg to partially obscure the view of the airway 
and a cervical collar was placed to limit flexion and extension. Participants 
were then asked to intubate the mannequin using both the ETT with a stylet and 
the bougie-assisted method. Whether the providers used the FG or stylet method 
first was randomized. Success or failure was recorded and the McNemar test was 
used to evaluate the paired nonparametric data.
RESULTS: A total of 96 providers (66% advanced, 34% intermediate) were enrolled, 
69 successfully intubated using the FG, while 64 successfully intubated with the 
stylet. Comparing successful bougie intubations with successful stylet 
intubations using the McNemar test, no significant difference was found between 
the groups (p = 0.486).
CONCLUSION: Prehospital care providers were as successful intubating a difficult 
airway model using the newly learned bougie technique as they were using the 
more familiar styleted ETT technique.

DOI: 10.1080/10903120390936879
PMID: 12710787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Matern Child Health J. 2003 Mar;7(1):5-11. doi: 10.1023/a:1022585400130.

Building on a life-course perspective in maternal and child health.

Kotelchuck M.

Comment in
    Matern Child Health J. 2003 Sep;7(3):151-6.

Comment on
    Matern Child Health J. 2003 Mar;7(1):13-30.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022585400130
PMID: 12710796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Matern Child Health J. 2003 Mar;7(1):13-30. doi: 10.1023/a:1022537516969.

Racial and ethnic disparities in birth outcomes: a life-course perspective.

Lu MC(1), Halfon N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Center for Healthier Children, 
Families, and Communities, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California, 
USA. mclu@ucla.edu

Comment in
    Matern Child Health J. 2003 Mar;7(1):5-11.
    Matern Child Health J. 2003 Sep;7(3):151-6.

BACKGROUND: In the United States, Black infants have significantly worse birth 
outcomes than do White infants. The cause of these persisting racial disparities 
remains unexplained. Most extant studies focus on differential exposures to 
protective and risk factors during pregnancy, such as current socioeconomic 
status, maternal risky behaviors, prenatal care, psychosocial stress, or 
perinatal infections. These risk factors during pregnancy, however, do not 
adequately account for the disparities.
METHODS: We conducted a literature review for longitudinal models of health 
disparities, and presented a synthesis of two leading models, using a 
life-course perspective. Traditional risk factors during pregnancy are then 
reexamined within their life-course context. We conclude with a discussion of 
the limitations and implications of the life-course perspective for future 
research, practice, and policy development.
RESULTS: Two leading longitudinal models of health disparities were identified 
and discussed. The early programming model posits that exposures in early life 
could influence future reproductive potential. The cumulative pathways model 
conceptualizes decline in reproductive health resulting from cumulative wear and 
tear to the body's allostatic systems. We propose a synthesis of these two 
models, using the life-course perspective. Disparities in birth outcomes are the 
consequences of differential developmental trajectories set forth by early life 
experiences and cumulative allostatic load over the life course.
CONCLUSIONS: Future research on racial disparities in birth outcomes needs to 
examine differential exposures to risk and protective factors not only during 
pregnancy, but over the life course of women. Eliminating disparities requires 
interventions and policy development that are more longitudinally and 
contextually integrated than currently prevail.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022537516969
PMID: 12710797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Support Care Cancer. 2003 Jun;11(6):348-55. doi: 10.1007/s00520-002-0420-x.
Epub  2003 Apr 24.

How oncologists discuss complementary therapy use with their patients: an 
audio-tape audit.

Schofield PE(1), Juraskova I, Butow PN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology and Medical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer 
Institute, A'Beckett Street, Locked bag 1, 8006 Victoria, Australia. 
penelope.schofield@petermac.org

Understanding the dynamics of oncologist-patient communication regarding 
complementary therapy (CT) use is essential for the development of much-needed 
clinical guidelines. Discussions of CT use in 314 audio-taped initial 
consultations between cancer patients and their oncologists were identified and 
coded. Patients' anxiety levels and coping styles were also assessed. Reference 
to CT use was found in 91 consultations (29%). Patients and kin initiated most 
CT discussions, commonly during discussions of patients' medical history, 
treatment options or prognosis. In half of these discussions, patients 
volunteered that they were currently using a CT or were considering its use. 
Discussion of CT use was more likely to occur in consultations with patients who 
were younger, were better educated, spoke poorer English, had metastatic disease 
or limited life expectancy and expressed higher levels of fighting spirit and 
anxious preoccupation and lower levels of fatalism. The most commonly discussed 
CTs were: changes in diet; use of multivitamins, vitamin C or antioxidants; and 
having a positive attitude or fighting spirit. The doctor's overall response to 
CTs was most frequently coded as "encouraging", although 35% of attempts to 
initiate discussion were ignored by the oncologist. Doctors were more likely to 
make encouraging statements about CTs typically perceived to be potentially 
helpful versus potentially harmful. The current findings point to a need for 
practical consensus on how to communicate with cancer patients on the subject of 
CT use so that patients can receive the support and guidance that they are 
seeking from their oncologists.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-002-0420-x
PMID: 12712375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Presse Med. 2003 Mar 1;32(8):370-6.

[Environmental factors of longevity].

[Article in French]

Christen Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Fondation Ipsen 24, rue Erlanger 75781 Paris.

A PROBABLE ROLE: The great increase in life expectancy over the past decades and 
too short a time lapse for any major genetic mutations to intervene, are 
arguments in favour of the intervention of environmental factors in longevity. A 
FAIRLY LONG LIST: Various environmental factors can be envisaged: prenatal 
environment, pollution, radiation and oncogenic agents, notably tobacco, food 
(quantitatively and qualitatively), medicinal products, stress, education and 
socio-professional life style, isolation, number of children and sexual 
activity, sports and exercising, etc. It is highly likely that all these 
factors, or at least some of them, have a real effect on longevity, although 
this is difficult to demonstrate directly. A COMBINED EFFECT: The basic idea of 
this paper is that these environmental factors should be seen as agents, the 
effects of which would be combined with those of genetic factors, considered as 
agents of radically different nature. We suggest that, in order to have any real 
effect, these environmental factors have to work on the same cell mechanisms as 
those that affect the genetic process, notably the mechanisms related to 
oxidative stress and genetic expression.

PMID: 12712686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Rev Port Cardiol. 2003 Jan;22(1):91-104.

A case of complete situs inversus.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Marta MJ(1), Falcão LM, Saavedra JA, Ravara L.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Medicina I, Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisboa.

Complete situs inversus is a rare syndrome, with overall frequency estimated at 
1/10,000 births, resulting from abnormal rotation of the cardiac tube during 
embryogenesis, of unknown mechanism. Recent studies suggest that left-right 
asymmetry defects are likely to be due to genetic abnormalities in the lefty, 
nodal, i.v., HAND, ZIC3, Shh, ACVR2B and/or Pitxz genes. In dextrocardia with 
situs inversus the heart is structurally normal in 90-95% of cases, in contrast 
to dextroversion (dextrocardia with situs solitus), which has a high incidence 
of structural cardiac defects. Atrial septal defect is one of the most common 
congenital cardiac anomalies in adults. Diagnosis is based on clinical 
manifestations and simple complementary diagnostic exams like abdominal and 
thoracic radiography and electrocardiogram. Prognosis in isolated dextrocardia 
depends on the congenital cardiac defects present. By contrast, in dextrocardia 
with situs inversus life expectancy is similar to that of the general 
population. The authors present the case of a 64-year-old German man admitted to 
the emergency care unit with a diagnosis of embolic stroke due to atrial 
fibrillation with fast ventricular rate. As clinical history could not be 
assessed due to language limitations, routine admission tests were performed. 
They revealed complete situs inversus with corrected ostium secundum atrial 
septal defect. Finally, the anatomic, pathologic, embryologic and etiologic 
features of complete situs inversus and related abnormalities of the cardiac 
structures are presented. Special emphasis is given to genetic abnormalities, 
the study of which has seen great advances since the 1990s thanks to new 
techniques of DNA analysis.

PMID: 12712813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Rev Esp Anestesiol Reanim. 2003 Feb;50(2):70-6.

[Epidural anesthesia with ropivacaine vs. bupivacaine in continuous perfusion 
for the treatment of labor pains].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández C(1), Sala X, Plaza A, López A, Celemín M, Gomar C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Anestesiología y Reanimación, Corporació Sanitaria Clínic, 
Universitat de Barcelona. cfernan8@terra.es

Comment in
    Rev Esp Anestesiol Reanim. 2003 May;50(5):253-4; author reply 254.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the analgesic efficacy and extent of motor block when 
0.125% ropivacaine or 0.125% bupivacaine were given in continuous perfusion 
through an epidural catheter during labor.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 60 ASA I-II women, each carrying a single fetus 
at full term and in spontaneous labor. The patients were distributed in 2 
groups. Women in the ropivacaine group (R) (n = 30) received 8 mL of 0.2% 
ropivacaine for analgesic induction, followed by a continuous perfusion of 10 
mL/h at 0.125%. The bupivacaine group (B) (n = 30) received bupivacaine at the 
same concentration and infusion rate. The objective of analgesia was to achieve 
a score less than 3 on a visual analog pain scale. If analgesia was inadequate, 
a 5 mL bolus of 0.2% ropivacaine or bupivacaine, depending on group, was 
administered. The motor block was evaluated on an abbreviated Bromage scale and 
we recorded hemodynamic stability, fetal status, type of delivery and the total 
dose of local anesthetic.
RESULTS: Analgesia and hemodynamics were similar in both groups. Group R 
required a larger number of additional boluses, although the difference was not 
statistically significant. A motor block was observed in 8 patients in group B 
and 1 in group R (p < 0.05). Fetal status was similar in both groups.
CONCLUSION: Both drugs were equally effective for controlling the pain 
accompanying labor, such that ropivacaine offered no advantage over bupivacaine 
in that regard. Ropivacaine's reduced motor block effect at the doses 
administered may offer an advantage in some situations, such as when a walking 
epidural is provided.

PMID: 12712868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Acta Physiol Scand. 2003 May;178(1):25-32. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-201X.2003.01097.x.

Effect of low-load resistance training on the tendon properties in middle-aged 
and elderly women.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Miyatani M, Tachi M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 
Japan.

AIM: The purposes of this study were to determine the age-related changes in the 
tendon-aponeurosis structures and to investigate the effects of low-load 
resistance training on the tendon-aponeurosis structures in middle-aged and 
elderly women.
METHODS: Fifty-one women (55.8 +/- 13.7 years, range: 21-77 years) volunteered 
to take part in the present study. Furthermore, 11 middle-aged and elderly women 
(49.7 +/- 9.2 years) performed the low-load resistance training, i.e. squat 
using body weight, for 6 months. The elongation of the tendon and aponeurosis of 
the vastus lateralis muscle was directly measured by ultrasonography, while the 
subjects performed ramp isometric knee extension up to the voluntary maximum, 
followed by a ramp relaxation. The relationship between the estimated muscle 
force (Fm) and tendon elongation (L) during the ascending phase was fitted to a 
linear regression, the slope of which was defined as stiffness. The percentage 
of the area within the Fm-L loop to the area beneath the curve during the 
ascending phase was calculated as hysteresis.
RESULTS: Maximal strain (L/initial tendon length) and stiffness of the 
tendon-aponeurosis structures decreased significantly with ageing. In contrast, 
the hysteresis increased significantly with ageing. In addition, low-load 
resistance training produced no significant change in stiffness and hysteresis, 
but significantly increased the maximal elongation of tendon-aponeurosis 
structures from 23.3 +/- 2.1 mm to 24.8 +/- 2.2 mm (P = 0.045).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that increasing age results in a decrease in 
the elasticity of tendon-aponeurosis structures and an increase in their 
viscosity. Furthermore, the low-load resistance training made the elasticity of 
tendon-aponeurosis structures increase.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-201X.2003.01097.x
PMID: 12713512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Gynecol Oncol. 2003 May;89(2):259-66. doi: 10.1016/s0090-8258(02)00098-7.

Ovarian tissue banking and fertility preservation in cancer patients: 
histological and immunohistochemical evaluation.

Fabbri R(1), Venturoli S, D'Errico A, Iannascoli C, Gabusi E, Valeri B, 
Seracchioli R, Grigioni WF.

Author information:
(1)Human Reproductive Medicine Unit, University of Bologna, S. Orsola Hospital, 
Italy. rfabbri@orsola-malpighi.med.unibo.it

OBJECTIVE: A combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy in young females with 
cancer has greatly enhanced the life expectancy of these patients, even if these 
treatments have a highly deleterious effect on the ovary and cause a severe 
depletion of the follicular store. Cryopreservation of ovarian tissue before 
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, followed by autograft after remission or in in 
vitro maturation, could restore gonadal function and fertility. The aim of this 
study is to verify the efficiency of the ovarian tissue cryopreservation 
procedure by histological and immunohistochemical analyses.
METHODS: Ovarian tissue was obtained by laparoscopy from 22 patients affected 
with different malignant diseases. Tissue specimens were frozen using a 
combination of PROH (1,2-propanediol) and sucrose as cryoprotectants, and the 
cryopreservation protocol used consisted of a slow freezing-rapid thawing 
program. Both fresh and frozen/thawed tissues were embedded in paraffin blocks 
for histological and immunohistochemical analyses.
RESULTS: Good stromal and follicular morphology was found in fresh and 
frozen/thawed tissue. No significant differences were found in follicular 
density, distribution, and diameters in fresh and frozen/thawed tissue. Follicle 
immunohistochemical analysis showed a high percentage of negative staining for 
both estrogen receptor (ER) (100% both in fresh and frozen/thawed specimens) and 
progesterone receptor (PR) (97% versus 91%, respectively). Regarding the Ki67 
protein, positive staining was found in both the granulosa cells and/or the 
oocytes (36% in fresh and 56% in frozen/thawed). For the Bcl2 protein, positive 
staining was observed in the follicle granulosa cells but not in the oocytes in 
74% of the fresh and in 79% of the frozen/thawed specimens. For the stromal 
cells, ER showed a negative staining distribution in 97% of the fresh and 100% 
of the frozen/thawed specimens. The stroma staining distribution was 
diffuse/focal in fresh versus frozen/thawed specimens (50% versus 74% 
respectively) for PR, patch/focal (70% versus 80%, respectively) for Ki67 
protein, and diffuse (55% versus 54%, respectively) for Bcl2.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that human ovarian tissue morphology, 
antigenicity, cellular proliferation, and anti-apoptotic index were well 
preserved by cryopreservation in PROH and sucrose.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-8258(02)00098-7
PMID: 12713989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Mech Ageing Dev. 2003 Apr;124(4):569-72. doi: 10.1016/s0047-6374(03)00038-1.

IL-10 and TNF-alpha polymorphisms in a sample of Sicilian patients affected by 
tuberculosis: implication for ageing and life span expectancy.

Scola L(1), Crivello A, Marino V, Gioia V, Serauto A, Candore G, Colonna-Romano 
G, Caruso C, Lio D.

Author information:
(1)Gruppo di Studio sull'Immunosenescenza, Dipartimento di Biopatologia e 
Metodologie Biomediche, Università di Palermo, Corso Tukory 211, 90134, Palermo, 
Italy.

Human longevity seems to be directly correlated with optimal functioning of the 
immune system, suggesting that some genetic determinants of longevity might 
reside in those polymorphisms for the immune system genes that regulate immune 
responses, in particular cytokine gene polymorphisms. In fact, modification of 
cytokine network is a constant report in studies on age related modification of 
immune response. Moreover cytokine polymorphisms studies are indicating their 
involvement in the reshaping of cytokines network as an integral part of the 
scenario related to a successful ageing. A particular role might be attributed 
to the influence of cytokine polymorphisms on the efficiency of immune response 
against infectious diseases that have been the principal selection in oldest 
old. Here are reported data on the evaluation of the frequency of the functional 
polymorphisms at genes coding for TNF-alpha (-308G-->A) and IL-10 (-1082G-->A), 
analysed by ARMS-PCR, in a group of Sicilian patients affected by chronic lung 
tuberculosis (TBC) compared to that from a group of healthy individuals living 
in the same region. Data obtained demonstrated a reduction of -308GG TNF 
homozygous individuals in TBC affected subject group. In the same group a 
reduction of IL-10 -1082A/* carriers was found. Our results seem to suggest that 
multiple genetic traits may affect the capacity to cope with an infectious 
agents and this might predispose to an overt disease. Moreover these data are in 
agreement with previous reports suggesting that a balanced interaction among 
pro- and anti-inflammatory molecules it is a key point for conditioning the life 
span expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(03)00038-1
PMID: 12714269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Horm Res. 2003;59(5):211-21. doi: 10.1159/000070220.

Adulthood in women with Turner syndrome.

Ostberg JE(1), Conway GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Middlesex Hospital, London, UK. 
j.ostberg@ucl.ac.uk

Turner syndrome, resulting from a complete or partial absence of one X 
chromosome, is the most commonly occurring chromosomal abnormality in females. 
Patients have traditionally been carefully followed in paediatric practice 
during childhood, but were often discharged to primary care on reaching 
adulthood. Adults with Turner syndrome are thought to have a reduced life 
expectancy, mainly due to excess cardiovascular risk, but they may also have 
multiple comorbidities including hypothyroidism, deafness, osteoporosis and the 
attendant problems of oestrogen deficiency and infertility. A multidisciplinary 
approach to focused adult care is needed, with consideration of how to optimise 
surveillance strategies in these women.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000070220
PMID: 12714784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. World J Surg. 2003 May;27(5):551-3. doi: 10.1007/s00268-003-6677-5. Epub
2003  Apr 28.

Stripping operation with sclerotherapy for primary varicose veins due to greater 
saphenous vein reflux: three-year results.

Miyazaki K(1), Nishibe T, Sata F, Imai T, Kudo FA, Flores J, Miyazaki YJ, Yasuda 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, 
Kita-14, Nishi-5, Kita-Ku, Sapporo 060-8648, Japan. jungeka@med.hokudai.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to compare the recurrence-free rates of stripping 
with varicectomy and stripping with sclerotherapy for the treatment of primary 
varicose veins due to greater saphenous vein insufficiency. This is a 
multicenter retrospective analysis of 186 patients and 220 limbs treated for 
primary varicose veins due to greater saphenous vein reflux from January 1996 to 
December 1997. The difference between the two groups was evaluated by the Chi(2) 
test or t-test. The recurrence-free rates were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier 
life-table method. The mean follow-up period was 3.2 +/- 1.1 years. The clinical 
backgrounds of patients with varicectomy stripping and sclerotherapy stripping 
were not significantly different between the two groups. The overall 
recurrence-free rates at 1 and 3 years were 97.0% and 91.4%, respectively. The 
recurrence-free rates at 3 years were 93.5% for stripping with varicectomy and 
88.6% for stripping with sclerotherapy. No statistical difference was found 
between the two groups. The recurrence rate after stripping with sclerotherapy 
was equivalent to that after stripping with varicectomy. Thus concurrent 
varicectomy can be replaced with sclerotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-003-6677-5
PMID: 12715221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2000;1(4):333-336.

Probabilities of Developing Cancer over the Whole Life Span of a Japanese.

Inoue M(1), Tajima K, Tominaga S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Prevention, Aichi Cancer Center Research 
Institute, Nagoya, 464-8681 Japan. minoue@aichi-cc.pref.aichi.jp

To obtain a relevant index of the impact of cancer on the Japanese population, 
considering curable cases as well as mortalities, the probability of developing 
cancer in the entire life span of a Japanese was estimated. A method based on 
the cumulative risk of cancer was employed to estimate the probability. This 
cumulative risk method gave a lifetime probability of developing cancer in any 
site of 52 % for males and 31 % for females in 1994 up to 85+ years of age. and 
for the average life expectancy of Japanese, 77 years for males and 84 years for 
females, 32 % and 26 % respectively. The estimated probabilities provide 
reasonable and practical indices of the impact of cancer today. This method can 
be also applied to local estimation if population-based cancer registry data are 
available.

PMID: 12716310


764. Med Clin (Barc). 2003 Apr 12;120(13):498-504. doi: 
10.1016/s0025-7753(03)73755-5.

[Current framework of biotechnology products according to the available 
pharmacoeconomic studies].

[Article in Spanish]

Clemente Bautista S(1), Mendante Barrenechea L, Montoro Ronsano JB.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Farmacia. Hospital Universitario Vall d'Hebron. Barcelona. 
España. clemente@hg.vhebron.es

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Biotechnologic drugs have a high impact in health 
system because they contribute in new indications as well as in its high cost. 
The study's aim is to do a descriptive analysis from the pharmacoeconomic 
studies. The objective of the study was to establish the standards of efficiency 
and utility, as well as to know its therapeutic usefulness and rationale.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The detection and selection of originals has been made 
through repeated searches in MEDLINE (PubMed) with every one of the different 
biotechnology products crossing the product name with life, year and saved. In 
function of the cost for year of life saved (YLS) were defined categories: 
saving of cost (< 0$/YLS), highly cost-effectiveness (0-20000$/YLS), 
cost-effectiveness (20001-40000$/YLS), doubtfully cost-effectiveness 
(40001-60000$/YLS), and no cost-effectiveness (> 60001$/YLS).
RESULTS: There are published figures only in 31% of the total of the searched 
biotechnological drugs. In 2 clinic conditions the drug reduces the cost, in 33 
is highly cost-effectiveness, in 11 is cost-effectiveness, in 4 occasions is 
doubtfull cost-effectiveness and in 14 is no cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of the high heterogeneity of methodology used in the 
pharmacoeconomic studies about biotechnological products, in the majority of the 
clinic situations evaluated we observed a good cost-effectiveness relation in 
the use of the biotechnological products.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(03)73755-5
PMID: 12716544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Surgery. 2003 Apr;133(4):383-9. doi: 10.1067/msy.2003.110.

Bilateral synchronous breast cancer: a population-based study of 
characteristics, method of detection, and survival.

Polednak AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Connecticut Tumor Registry, Department of Public Health, 419 Capitol Avenue, 
Hartford, CT 06134-0308, USA.

BACKGROUND: The frequency of bilateral synchronous breast cancer (BSBC) is 
reportedly about 1%-3%, but there is limited information from population-based 
cancer registries regarding the clinical and prognostic features of these 
cancers.
METHODS: The population-based Connecticut Tumor Registry (CTR), which is part of 
the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
(SEER) Program of registries, was used to identify BSBC (ie, a second cancer 
diagnosed within 3 months of the first). Information was obtained on the method 
of detection of BSBC, and clinical characteristics and survival (through 2000) 
were compared with unilateral cases.
RESULTS: Of 15,542 patients reported to the CTR, 300 (1.9%) had BSBC. BSBC was 
detected most often by mammography of both breasts (35%) or contralateral 
mammography after a palpable first cancer (18%). Compared to unilateral cases, 
BSBC patients did not differ in age or stage at diagnosis, but lobular histology 
was statistically significantly more frequent and use of total mastectomy (vs 
lesser surgery) was more common. Although length of follow-up was limited, risk 
of death was statistically, significantly higher among BSBC than unilateral 
patients. Among BSBC patients, risk of death was higher among those with cancers 
detected by breast exam/symptoms versus mammography. CONCLUSIONS; While 
uncommon, BSBCs differ from unilateral cancer in histology and survival, and 
their study emphasizes the opportunity for detection of contralateral cancers at 
an early stage.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2003.110
PMID: 12717355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nurs J India. 2002 Oct;93(10):235-6.

Need of specialty nursing care for senior citizens.

Nandi M.

PMID: 12718290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2003 Apr;29(2):83-4. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.708.

Is the life expectancy of anesthesiologists decreased?

Hagmar L.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.708
PMID: 12718492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2001;2(1):43-47.

Protective Effects of Tomato Juice on Mouse Skin Carcinogenesis.

De S(1), Das S.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Cancer Chemoprevention, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, 
Calcutta- 7000 26, India sukta2001@rediffmail.com

The anticarcinogenic effect of tomato juice, a natural source of antioxidants 
and other chemopreventive / antimutagenic agents, was studied in a skin 
carcinogenesis model in mice. The possible mode of action was also investigated. 
Oral administration of tomato juice afforded protection from development of skin 
tumour and increased life expectancy which may be attributed to the combined 
action of a number of chemical compounds with cancer chemopreventive properties 
present in tomato. The protective role may be associated with a decreased level 
