of lipid peroxides noted in the tomato treated group and modulation of host 
detoxification enzymes. Exposure to the carcinogen resulted in a depression of 
the liver enzymes- glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) 
and superoxide dismutase (SOD). Oral administration of tomato juice resulted in 
significant activation of all these enzymes (p<0.001). These results suggest a 
preventive role of tomato juice during carcinogenesis which is mediated possibly 
by their modulatory effects on biotransformation enzymes and the detoxification 
system of the host.

PMID: 12718653


769. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Apr;36(2):89. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0155-4.

[The efforts for longevity: what maximum lifespan does society bear?].

[Article in German]

Stosberg M.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0155-4
PMID: 12720018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Apr;36(2):90-4. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0135-8.

[Increasing life expectancy--what are the promises of demography?].

[Article in German]

Buttler G(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Lehrstuhl für Statistik und empirische 
Wirtschaftsforschung, 90403 Nürnberg, Germany. Buttler@wiso.uni-erlangen.de

The prospects for a longer life are improving, for life expectancy is growing 
continuously. In Germany new-born boys are looking forward to 74.4 years, girls 
even to 80.6 years of life. But Germany is only mid-range internationally. As 
there is a linear trend for 160 years, it seems realistic that life expectancy 
in top countries will be 100 years in 2060. If we look more thoroughly we find 
that there are important differences in Germany. Whereas the southern parts are 
in the pole position, the former East Germany is at the bottom of the league. 
This separation is apparently caused by the different political systems in 
postwar Germany. There are even more differences if smaller regions are 
examined. The reasons for these differences are due to many influences, 
including personal features, conditions of life, lifestyle and, of course, 
medical treatment. As these factors are partly determined by individual 
behavior, people are partly responsible for their life and therefore also for 
the further development of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0135-8
PMID: 12720019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Apr;36(2):95-103. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0136-7.

[Increasing life expectancy--the big social issue of the 21st century?].

[Article in German]

Scherl H(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Postfach 3931, 90020 Nürnberg, Germany. 
scherl@wiso.uni-erlangen.de

Due to the combined effects of a persistent low birth rate, the forthcoming 
retirement of the "baby-boom generation" and an increasing life expectancy, the 
German system of "social security" will face severe challenges in the coming 
decades. The foreseeable doubling of the ratio between pensioners and employees 
by 2050 would cause a strong increase in social security contributions and taxes 
for the "pay-as-you-go"-financed pension system. In addition, the expected 
tripling of highly aged people would increase the public expenditures for health 
care and nursing care of elder people, which also have to be financed by the 
future working generations. In order to lessen the increasing burden on future 
generations, social reforms are necessary soon. If these are not performed, the 
distributional conflict between young and old people could become worse over the 
forthcoming decades.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0136-7
PMID: 12720020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Apr;36(2):104-9. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0137-6.

[A long life--a wish and its limits. Aging with dignity and meaning].

[Article in German]

Seitz M.

In the journal "Gerontologie" (1991, Oswald WD et al. Eds.), the article on 
"Langlebigkeit" (longevity) is followed by the article on "Lebenszufriedenheit" 
(satisfaction in life) for purely alphabetical reasons. However, there is a 
deeper meaning in this order which refers to a connection that should not be 
neglected. "The number of our days is 70 years. Or maybe 80 years if..." To have 
a long and satisfying life is a deeply rooted wish in the human mind. Medicine 
and modern, improved conditions of living let this come true for many. However, 
what undoubtedly is a value by itself and has been praised as success until 
recently, now causes personal and social problems. We are dealing with a covert 
problem in particular: Which decisions that concern us and are likely not to 
please us, are others going to take when we are old? "I need a coat already. For 
me the sun is already declining". The wish to live as long as possible is always 
connected with hope, that is hope to have a fulfilling life. However, there are 
limits to that hope due to the constancy of maximal life expectation, multiple 
morbidity related with old age and consequent shortening of life. At the same 
time basic existential experiences as uniqueness, loneliness and the limits of 
the human mind increase with age. So what does it mean to fill life in old age 
with meaning and dignity? Nowadays dignity is constantly talked about. That is 
possibly why it is on the retreat. Dignity is understood as something that can 
be ascribed and if that is so, we can simply abandon it since theology is not a 
known discipline any more. Theology and religion in general could bring about a 
new understanding of the meaning of life as it could relate something 
incomprehensible with a potential interpretation. Life in old age also comprises 
the personal and private wherein the memories of the personal life attain a 
particularly important function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0137-6
PMID: 12720021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Apr;36(2):110-4. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0138-5.

[Everlasting solidarity? Longevity and generational relations].

[Article in German]

Blüher S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Sozialwissenschaftliches Forschungszentrum 
(SFZ), Findelgasse 7/9, 90402 Nürnberg, Germany. 
stefan.blueher@wiso.uni-erlangen.de

Demographic development of industrial societies is determined by continuous low 
birth rates and increasing life expectancy. The dramatic change in generational 
structure will be an enormous challenge not only for the public social security 
systems; as an original place of inter-generational relations, family is 
particularly faced with increasing life expectancy and the chances and risks of 
longevity. Need for nursing care is such a risk of longevity, realizing that 
only about 3% aged between 60 and 80 are in need of care, but about 25% at the 
age of 80 or older. The majority of nursing cases is well-cared at home, mostly 
by relatives. Although one might care for relatives for many reasons--not only 
for love and altruism--empirical data insist on indicating strong family ties 
based on senses of solidarity and commitment. The focal point of the following 
article is a case review describing highly emotional family relationships in a 
home care situation. On the one hand, the description clarifies family 
solidarity representing the basis of German long-term care insurance since 1995; 
on the other hand it demonstrates the enormous burden caring for an old mother 
or father. Increasing life expectancy might even intensify burdens, so that 
fewer and fewer relatives might be able or willing to accept them. In this 
matter, new mixtures of private and public services will attain increasing 
importance. Considering German long-term care insurance a pioneer, it expresses 
a new sense of limited public responsibility assuming the existence of 
sufficiently strong family ties.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0138-5
PMID: 12720022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Support Care Cancer. 2003 May;11(5):304-12. doi: 10.1007/s00520-002-0419-3.
Epub  2003 Jan 28.

The health-related quality-of-life impact of histamine dihydrochloride plus 
interleukin-2 compared with interleukin-2 alone in patients with metastatic 
melanoma.

Beusterien KM(1), Ackerman SJ, Plante K, Glaspy J, Naredi P, Wood D, Gehlsen K, 
Agarwala SS.

Author information:
(1)Covance Health Economics and Outcomes Services Inc., 9th Floor, 9801 
Washingtonian Blvd., Gaithersburg, MD 20878, USA.

The aim of this study was to compare the quality-of-life (QOL) effects of 
interleukin-2 (IL-2) alone with those of IL-2 plus histamine dihydrochloride in 
the setting of a multicenter, randomized trial for patients with metastatic 
melanoma. QOL data were collected from July 1997 to March 2000 during a phase 
III trial comparing subcutaneous histamine plus IL-2 and IL-2 alone. Prior to 
each treatment cycle, patients completed the 76-item Quality-of-Well-Being 
Scale-Self-Administered (QWB-SA) questionnaire, the Overall State of Health 
(OSH) item, and the General Health Perception (GHP) item. A longitudinal data 
analysis using the generalized estimating equations approach was performed to 
compare changes in QWB-SA scores over time between treatment groups, and 
predicted QWB-SA scores from the regression analysis were used to calculate 
quality-adjusted survival duration over the 12-month study period. QOL analyses 
were conducted for all randomized patients (intent-to-treat overall population, 
ITT-OA) and all patients who had liver metastases at randomization (ITT-LM 
population). In the ITT-OA population, differences in QWB-SA scores over time 
between the histamine plus IL-2 group (150 patients) and the IL-2 alone group 
(151 patients) were not significant (P=0.511, type III F test). In the ITT-LM 
population (53 histamine plus IL-2 patients and 73 IL-2 alone patients), changes 
in QWB-SA scores over time favored the histamine plus IL-2 group (P=0.018, type 
III F-test). In both the ITT-OA and ITT-LM populations, QWB-SA scores 
deteriorated more quickly over time in the IL-2 alone group than in the 
histamine plus IL-2 group, resulting in a significant difference in median 
quality-adjusted survival duration in favor of the histamine plus IL-2 group by 
31.3 days in the ITT-OA population (P=0.007, Mann-Whitney U-test), and 50.2 days 
in the ITT-LM population (P=0.011). OSH and GHP scores did not differ between 
groups. The addition of subcutaneous histamine dihydrochloride to IL-2 treatment 
improved median quality-adjusted survival duration and did not adversely affect 
QOL in patients with malignant melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-002-0419-3
PMID: 12720074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Health Econ. 2003 May;12(5):421-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.788.

Stratified cost-effectiveness analysis: a framework for establishing efficient 
limited use criteria.

Coyle D(1), Buxton MJ, O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, and Ottawa Health Research 
Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada. dcoyle@ohri.ca

The cost-effectiveness of new health care technologies is conditional upon who 
receives what therapy and under what circumstances. Understanding this 
heterogeneity in cost-effectiveness, health care payers often limit 
reimbursement of therapies to a more restrictive sub-group of patients than that 
indicated in a product's licensing. Such limits may be based upon clinical or 
demographic criteria that are prognostic of costs, outcomes or both. However, 
there is little guidance on how to estimate and interpret stratified 
cost-effectiveness analysis. In this paper we present a framework for estimating 
the benefits from stratification that permits consideration of both the 
opportunity cost resulting from a lack of adherence with criteria and the 
efficiency loss associated with incorporating equity concerns.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.788
PMID: 12720259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Agric Food Chem. 2003 May 7;51(10):2958-63. doi: 10.1021/jf026143h.

Application of hexanal, E-2-hexenal, and hexyl acetate to improve the safety of 
fresh-sliced apples.

Lanciotti R(1), Belletti N, Patrignani F, Gianotti A, Gardini F, Guerzoni ME.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Protezione e Valorizzazione Agroalimentare, University of 
Bologna, via Fanin 46, 40127 Bologna, Italy. lanciott@kaiser.alma.unibo.it

The aims of this work were to evaluate the effects of different concentrations 
of hexanal, (E)-2-hexenal, hexyl acetate, and their mixtures on the fate of 
pathogenic species such as Escherichia coli, Salmonella enteritidis, and 
Listeria monocytogenes inoculated in model systems as well as the antimicrobial 
activity against the target species of the chosen molecules when added to the 
packaging atmosphere of inoculated fresh-sliced apples. The result obtained in 
this work pointed out the potential use of compounds such as hexanal, 
(E)-2-hexenal, and hexyl acetate for both the extension of shelf life and an 
improvement of hygienic safety of "minimally processed foods". In fact, hexanal, 
(E)-2-hexenal, and hexyl acetate had a significant inhibitory effect against 
pathogen microorganisms frequently isolated from raw materials (E. coli, S. 
enteritidis, and L. monocytogenes) when inoculated in both model and real 
systems. In this last condition, these compounds, at the levels used (150, 150, 
and 20 ppm for hexanal, hexyl acetate, and (E)-2-hexenal, respectively), 
displayed a bactericide effect on L. monocytogenes and they exhibited 
significant extensions of lag phase of E. coli and S. enteritidis inoculated at 
levels of 10(4)-10(5) CFU/g.

DOI: 10.1021/jf026143h
PMID: 12720377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Am J Public Health. 2003 May;93(5):768-70. doi: 10.2105/ajph.93.5.768.

The gender gap in heart disease: lessons from Eastern Europe.

Weidner G(1), Cain VS.

Author information:
(1)Preventive Medicine Research Institute, 900 Bridgeway, Sausalito, CA 94965, 
USA. gweidner@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2003 Nov;93(11):1793; author reply 1793-4.

Why are men more susceptible to heart disease than women? Traditional risk 
factors cannot explain the gender gap in coronary heart disease (CHD) or the 
rapid increase in CHD mortality among middle-aged men in many of the newly 
independent states of Eastern Europe. However, Eastern European men score higher 
on stress-related psychosocial factors than men living in the West. Comparisons 
between the sexes also reveal differences in psychosocial and behavioral 
coronary risk factors favoring women, indicating that women's coping with 
stressful events may be more cardioprotective. Men's greater susceptibility to 
heart disease, particularly observable in many Eastern European countries, poses 
unique threats to public health and points to solutions in the behavioral and 
social arena.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.93.5.768
PMCID: PMC1447835
PMID: 12721140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Am J Public Health. 2003 May;93(5):771. doi: 10.2105/ajph.93.5.771.

Death of a senator: life expectancy and causes of death in 20th-century US 
senators.

Feldman G(1).

Author information:
(1)New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, 2 Lafayette Street, 
20th Floor, CN #46, New York, NY 10007, USA. gfeldman@health.nyc.gov

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.93.5.771
PMCID: PMC1447836
PMID: 12721142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Hum Reprod. 2003 May;18(5):1082-7. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deg206.

Uterine endometrial thermal balloon therapy for the treatment of menorrhagia: 
long-term multicentre follow-up study.

Amso NN(1), Fernandez H, Vilos G, Fortin C, McFaul P, Schaffer M, Van der 
Heijden PF, Bongers MY, Sanders B, Blanc B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Wales College of 
Medicine and the University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff CF14 4XN, UK. 
amsonn@cardiff.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Initial reports from observational and randomized trials of uterine 
endometrial thermal balloon therapy (UBT) suggested good results as judged by 
return to eumenorrhoea or less and patient satisfaction. Long-term follow-up 
data remained limited by the small numbers of patients and duration of 
follow-up. We present long-term (4-6 years) follow-up data from a cohort of 
women previously treated with UBT for menorrhagia.
METHODS: Of the 260 questionnaires sent to women eligible for long-term 
follow-up from 10 centres, 188 (72%) replies were received. The primary outcome 
measure was avoidance of hysterectomy.
RESULTS: In women who responded to the questionnaire, 25 had undergone 
hysterectomy and 21 had had repeat ablation. At 4-6 years after UBT, the 
probability of avoiding hysterectomy was 86% of all women, and of avoiding 
re-ablation was 88% of non-hysterectomized women. Overall, the probability of 
avoiding any surgery was 75%. Women with an axial or retroverted uterus were at 
greater risk of hysterectomy or re-ablation. Among the participants, 47% of the 
non-hysterectomized women were amenorrhoeic, 30% were hypomenorrhoeic, 13.6% 
were eumenorrhoeic and 8.5% had heavy periods.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first long-term follow-up report of a second-generation 
endometrial ablation procedure and confirms our initial experience. The high 
rate of hysterectomy avoidance over 5 years or more is very encouraging for this 
technology.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deg206
PMID: 12721188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Z Rheumatol. 2003 Apr;62(2):155-60. doi: 10.1007/s00393-003-0458-2.

Termination of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs in rheumatoid arthritis and 
in psoriatic arthritis. A comparative study of 270 cases.

Ujfalussy I(1), Koó E, Seszták M, Gergely P.

Author information:
(1)Polyclinic of the Hospitaller Brothers of St. John of God, Arpád f. u 7, 1023 
Budapest, Hungary. uandor@fw.hu

102 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 104 psoriatic arthritis (PsA) patients' 
records were analysed according to a standardised protocol. Using Cox 
regression, life-table analysis and log rank test, the effectiveness and 
toxicity of, and duration of disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) 
treatment were compared in RA and PsA. RA patients were treated with gold sodium 
thiomalate (GST), methotrexate (MTX) and sulphasalazine (SSZ) for a median 
duration of 35, 72 and 12 months respectively, whereas PsA patients were treated 
for 12, 12 and 17 months. The differences for GST and MTX were statistically 
significant (p=0.0043 and 0.0447). Drug toxicity was more frequently seen among 
patients with PsA (p=0.0023). No difference in efficacy could be proved. Results 
suggest that there is a significant difference between RA and PsA patients in 
terms of toxicity of these agents. Therefore, separate treatment strategies are 
needed, and earlier results with RA may not be directly applicable to PsA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-003-0458-2
PMID: 12721703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Infect Dis. 2003 May 15;187 Suppl 1:S8-14. doi: 10.1086/368114.

The global burden of measles in the year 2000--a model that uses 
country-specific indicators.

Stein CE(1), Birmingham M, Kurian M, Duclos P, Strebel P.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland. steinc@who.int

The estimation of the global burden of measles is challenging in the absence of 
reliable and comparable surveillance systems worldwide. A static model is 
described that enables estimation of measles morbidity, mortality, and 
disability for the year 2000 on the basis of country-specific information (i.e., 
demographic profile, vaccine coverage, and estimates of case-fatality ratios). 
This approach estimated a global incidence of 39.9 million measles cases, 
777,000 deaths, and 28 million disability-adjusted life years. The World Health 
Organization regions of Africa and Southeast Asia had 70% of incident cases and 
84% of measles-related deaths; 11 countries alone (Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Niger, Nigeria, 
Pakistan, Somalia, Uganda) account for 66% of deaths. This approach quantifies 
the measles burden by considering country-specific indicators, which can be 
updated, permitting an assessment of country, regional, and global changes in 
the burden associated with measles infection.

DOI: 10.1086/368114
PMID: 12721886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Semin Oncol. 2003 Apr;30(2 Suppl 3):27-9. doi: 10.1053/sonc.2003.37274.

Making treatment choices: a physician's discussion of patients' needs.

Zielinski CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Vienna University Hospital, Department of Medicine and Medical Oncology, 
Clinical Division of Oncology, Austria.

Medical treatment decisions in early as well as advanced breast cancer follow 
established guidelines clearly defined by consensus statements, meta-analyses, 
and evidence-based insights into the biology of the disease, and treatment 
efficacy. Nevertheless, to treat patients "holistically" while remaining mindful 
of individual characteristics, physicians must consider patients' concerns 
regarding the course of their disease, their distress, and, in advanced disease, 
their knowledge of a limited life expectancy when making treatment choices. Such 
considerations will contribute to a more satisfactory patient-physician 
relationship and superior quality of life.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/sonc.2003.37274
PMID: 12722023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nihon Kokyuki Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Feb;41(2):74-80.

[Prognostic significance of serum uric acid in patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease receiving home oxygen therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato N(1), Kurashima K, Ubukata M, Takayanagi N, Matsushima H, Yanagisawa T, 
Tokunaga D, Sugita Y, Kanazawa M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Saitama Cardiovascular and Respiratory 
Center, 1696 Itai, Kounanmachi, Ohsato-gun, Saitama 360-0105, Japan.

Home oxygen therapy (HOT) not only prolongs life expectancy but also improves 
quality of life. Serum uric acid (UA), the final product of purine catabolism, 
has been shown to be increased in the hypoxic state. To elucidate the prognostic 
significance of serum UA in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) receiving HOT, we assessed the ratio between the serum concentration of 
UA and creatinine (Cr) in 91 outpatients with COPD. During a mean follow-up 
period of 31 months, 24 patients died of acute exacerbation of COPD. The delta 
UA/Cr ratio was calculated as the percent changes in serum UA/Cr during HOT. 
delta UA/Cr was increased in non-survivors, but not in survivors, and was 
negatively correlated with the nadir of oxyhemoglobin saturation (r = -0.32, p < 
0.01). Of the clinical and laboratory variables, only the delta UA/Cr ratio was 
found to be independently related to mortality by a multivariate Cox 
proportional-hazards analysis. The Kaplan-Meier survival curves divided into 
values below and above the median value (9.7%) of this ratio demonstrated that 
mortality was significantly higher among patients with high values than among 
those with low values (log-rank test: p < 0.05). We conclude that the delta 
UA/Cr ratio appears to be a reliable marker of prognosis, and may be useful for 
the long-term follow-up of outpatients with COPD receiving HOT.

PMID: 12722324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Apr 12;147(15):731; author reply 731-2.

[The small epidemiologic transition: further decrease in infant mortality due to 
medical intervention during pregnancy and childbirth, yet no decrease in 
childhood disabilities].

[Article in Dutch]

de Melker RA.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Mar 1;147(9):378-81.

PMID: 12722538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Hippocampus. 2003;13(3):388-98. doi: 10.1002/hipo.10072.

Effects of alcohol exposure during early life on neuron numbers in the rat 
hippocampus. I. Hilus neurons and granule cells.

Miki T(1), Harris SJ, Wilce PA, Takeuchi Y, Bedi KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa Medical University, 
Kagawa, Japan.

We previously showed that 16-day-old rats exposed to a relatively high dose of 
ethanol at 10-15 postnatal days of age have fewer neurons in the hilus region of 
the hippocampus compared with controls. Dentate gyrus granule cell numbers, 
however, showed no statistically significant changes attributable to the ethanol 
treatment. It is possible that some of the changes in brain morphology, brought 
about as a result of the exposure to ethanol during early life, may not be 
manifested until later in life. This question has been further addressed in an 
extension to our previous study. Wistar rats were exposed to a relatively high 
daily dose of ethanol on postnatal days 10-15 by placement in a chamber 
containing ethanol vapour, for 3 h/day. The blood ethanol concentration was 
found to be approximately 430 mg/dl at the end of the period of exposure. Groups 
of ethanol-treated (ET), separation control (SC), and mother-reared control 
(MRC) rats were anaesthetised and killed either at 16 or 30 days of age by 
perfusion with phosphate-buffered 2.5% glutaraldehyde. The Cavalieri principle 
and the physical disector methods were used to estimate, respectively, the 
regional volumes and neuron cell numerical densities in the hilus and granule 
cell regions of the dentate gyrus. The total numbers of neurons in the hilus 
region and granule cell layer were computed from these estimates. It was found 
that 16-day-old animals had 398,000-441,000 granule cells, irrespective of 
group. The numbers of granule cells increased such that by 30 days of age, rats 
had 487,000-525,500 granule cells. However, there were no significant 
differences between ethanol-treated rats and their age-matched controls in 
granule cell numbers. In contrast, ethanol-treated rats had slightly but 
significantly fewer neurons in the hilus region than did control animals at 16 
days of age, but not at 30 days of age. Therefore, it appears that a short 
period of ethanol exposure during early life can have effects on neuron numbers 
of some hippocampal neurons, but not others. The effects on hilar neuron 
numbers, observed as a result of such short periods of ethanol treatment, 
appeared to be transitory.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.10072
PMID: 12722979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Ethn Dis. 2003 Winter;13(1):126-33.

Data quality and adjusted Hispanic mortality in the United States, 1989-1991.

Swallen K(1), Guend A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53705, USA. kswallen@ssc.wisc.edu

Comment in
    Ethn Dis. 2003 Winter;13(1):155.

OBJECTIVES: Hispanics appear to live longer compared to other ethnic groups in 
the United States. Our main objective was to determine whether data quality 
biases mortality statistics. We calculated the impact of misclassification of 
ethnicity on death certificates in order to create adjusted mortality estimates.
METHODS: We used the National Mortality Follow-Back Survey of 1993 (NMFS) for 
our assessment of ethnicity misclassification. We then created misclassification 
estimates for 10-year age-sex groups, and used these to correct mortality 
estimates for 1989-1991.
RESULTS: The overall predictive value positive (PV+) and sensitivity were 0.981 
and 0.805, respectively, for men; and 0.994 and 0.902, respectively, for women. 
Age-specific adjustment for misclassification on death rates caused Hispanic 
male life expectancy to go from a 1.01 year advantage over White non-Hispanics, 
to a 1.83 year deficit, with a similar pattern found for females.
CONCLUSIONS: The apparent Hispanic advantage in life expectancy is influenced by 
misclassification of ethnicity. Misclassification of ethnicity on death 
certificates biases Hispanic mortality downward, thereby falsely inflating life 
expectancy.

PMID: 12723021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Ethn Dis. 2003 Winter;13(1):155.

For the patient. Do Hispanics really live longer or is ethnicity reported 
incorrectly on death certificates? Data quality and adjusted Hispanic mortality 
in the US, 1989-1991.

Swallen K, Guend A.

Comment on
    Ethn Dis. 2003 Winter;13(1):126-33.

PMID: 12723032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Biofizika. 2003 Mar-Apr;48(2):352-60.

[Generation of valuable information and the problem of goal self-setting in 
living systems].

[Article in Russian]

Chernavskiĭ DS(1), Chernavskaia NM.

Author information:
(1)Lebedev Physical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Research Computing 
Center, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.

The problem of origination of capacity for goal self-setting is discussed. It 
was shown that the definition "goal" in living systems differs from the 
definition "target function" in physical problems concerned with nonliving 
systems. It was also shown that the main goal of the elements of a system is the 
storage of information. In biology, this goal is the extension of the principle 
of struggle for existence. Conditions were determined that the dynamic system 
describing the goal self-setting process must satisfy. It was shown that living 
systems meet these conditions. In inorganic nature, such systems may also arise 
but only as a result of long-term evolution, after which they become living.

PMID: 12723363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Int J Clin Pract. 2003 Apr;57(3):219-23.

Galantamine: a review of its use in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.

Corey-Bloom J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, La Jolla, California, 
USA.

Dementia has the potential to become a major public health concern during this 
century due to increasing life expectancy and growth in the ageing population. 
The commonest types of dementia include Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular 
dementia (VaD), and dementia with cerebrovascular components. Galantamine is the 
only acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that exhibits a dual mechanism of 
action--inhibition of acetylcholinesterase and nicotinic receptor modulation. 
Clinical studies demonstrate the efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients 
with AD, VaD, and AD with cerebrovascular components. Galantamine shows 
beneficial effects on cognition, global function, activities of daily living and 
behaviour. Adverse events observed with galantamine use are generally mild to 
moderate in severity, transient and gastrointestinal in nature. The dose of 
galantamine should be escalated to 16 and 24 mg/day at four-week intervals to 
achieve maximal tolerability. Because of its unique mechanism of action, 
galantamine may have potential benefits over conventional enzyme-inhibiting 
agents.

PMID: 12723727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Am J Chin Med. 2003;31(1):79-85. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X03000837.

Choto-san prevents occurrence of stroke and prolongs life span in stroke-prone 
spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Shimada Y(1), Yang Q, Yokoyama K, Goto H, Kasahara Y, Sekiya N, Hikiami H, 
Terasawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Japanese Oriental Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Toyama Medical 
and Pharmaceutical University 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, Japan. 
shimada@ms.toyama-mpu.ac.jp

The effects of long-term oral administration of choto-san (diao-teng-san in 
Chinese) extract on the occurrence of stroke and life span were investigated in 
stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-SPs). Twenty-four rats were 
ramdomized into three groups. From 8 weeks of age, 0.1% and 0.3% choto-san 
groups were given water containing 0.1% (150 mg/kg/day) and 0.3% (450 mg/kg/day) 
choto-san extract, respectively. A control group was given only water. The mean 
survival times of the control group, 0.1% and 0.3% choto-san groups were 122.1, 
159.8 and 176.8 days, respectively. The percent survivals of both the 0.1% and 
0.3% choto-san groups were significantly enhanced compared to the control 
(Kaplan-Meier analysis followed by log-rank test; 0.1% choto-san: p < 0.05; 0.3% 
choto-san: p < 0.05). Furthermore, the cumulative percent occurrence of 
neurological and behavioral signs accompying stroke in the 0.3% choto-san group 
was significantly inhibited compared to the control (p < 0.05). These results 
suggested that choto-san prevents the occurrence of stroke and prolongs the life 
span of SHR-SPs.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X03000837
PMID: 12723757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 2003 Apr;32(4):201-5.

Cost analysis: fondaparinux versus preoperative and postoperative enoxaparin as 
venous thromboembolic event prophylaxis in elective hip arthroplasty.

Wade WE(1), Spruill WJ, Leslie RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Administrative Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, 
University of Georgia, Athens, USA.

Patients undergoing hip arthroplasty in the absence of prophylaxis for venous 
thromboembolic events (VTEs) are at high risk for experiencing postoperative 
VTEs. In the study reported here, we performed cost analyses involving efficacy 
and safety data from clinical trials evaluating fondaparinux and enoxaparin as 
VTE prophylaxis. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated to 
determine cost per VTE avoided. In addition, cost per death averted and cost per 
life-year gained were calculated. Once-daily fondaparinux proved to be more 
cost-effective than once-daily enoxaparin 40 mg but less cost-effective than 
twice-daily enoxaparin 30 mg.

PMID: 12723772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Am J Med. 2003 Apr 15;114(6):485-94. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00074-3.

Potential cost-effectiveness of C-reactive protein screening followed by 
targeted statin therapy for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease 
among patients without overt hyperlipidemia.

Blake GJ(1), Ridker PM, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that statin therapy reduces the rate of 
cardiovascular events among patients with low lipid levels but elevated 
C-reactive protein levels. However, no cost-effectiveness analyses have been 
performed to assist in determining whether large-scale randomized trials are 
merited to test this hypothesis.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to estimate the benefits, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness of C-reactive protein screening followed by targeted statin 
therapy for elevated C-reactive protein levels, compared with dietary counseling 
alone, for the primary prevention of cardiovascular events among patients with 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels <149 mg/dL. All costs were in 2000 
U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: The potential incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for screening 
followed by statin therapy compared with no screening and no statin therapy was 
$48,100 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 58-year-old men and $94,400 
per QALY for 58-year-old women. Screening was most cost-effective for 
65-year-old men ($42,600 per QALY) and least cost-effective for 35-year-old 
women ($207,300 per QALY). Our results were most sensitive to the baseline risk 
of coronary heart disease, the cost of statin therapy, and the efficacy of 
statin therapy for preventing myocardial infarction in patients with high 
C-reactive protein levels. If a 58-year-old man who smokes and is hypertensive 
was considered, screening for C-reactive protein followed by statin therapy 
would be cost saving if the cost of statin therapy was reduced to $500 per year. 
If the cost of statin therapy was reduced to $1 per day, the cost-effectiveness 
of screening would be $4900 per QALY for 58-year-old men and $19,600 per QALY 
for women of the same age. If the costs associated with elective 
revascularization (percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass 
surgery) were included in the base case analyses, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for screening would be $40,100 per QALY for 
58-year-old men and $87,300 per QALY for women.
CONCLUSION: A strategy involving C-reactive protein screening to target statin 
therapy for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease among middle-aged 
patients without overt hyperlipidemia could be relatively cost-effective and, in 
some cases, cost saving.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00074-3
PMID: 12727581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Am Diet Assoc. 2003 May;103(5):608-11. doi: 10.1053/jada.2003.50113.

Integrating issues of sustainably produced foods into nutrition practice: a 
survey of Minnesota Dietetic Association members.

Robinson R(1), Smith C.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Education Programs, University of Minnesota Extension Service, St. 
Paul, MN 55117, USA.

A survey was mailed to a representative, randomly selected sample of Minnesota 
Dietetic Association members (n=300) to evaluate attitudes and intentions 
regarding the integration of issues pertaining to sustainably produced foods 
into professional practice. The United States Department of Agriculture 
describes sustainable agriculture as including goals of farm profitability, 
environmental stewardship, and improved rural quality of life. Data analysis 
included descriptive statistics, independent t tests, one-way ANOVA, 
correlations, and multiple regression analyses (P< or =.05). Forty-three percent 
had heard of sustainable agriculture, 13% had integrated issues of sustainably 
produced foods into their practice, and 20% stated that it was likely that they 
would incorporate these issues within the next six months. Perceived behavioral 
control, subjective norm, and rated importance of knowing about agricultural 
practices independently predicted intention. Dietitians surveyed were interested 
in learning more, but most were not integrating these issues into practice 
because of perceived barriers, including a lack of knowledge about this topic.

DOI: 10.1053/jada.2003.50113
PMID: 12728221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2003 Apr;13(2):121-9. doi: 10.1053/srao.2003.50011.

Treatment of prostate cancer with regional lymph node (N1) metastasis.

Pollack A(1), Horwitz EM, Movsas B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA.

Prostate cancer with pathologically documented regional lymph node positive 
disease has been associated with a dismal prognosis in the past. Clinical and/or 
biochemical progression is evident within 5 years in over 50% treated with 
external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) alone, radical prostatectomy (RP) alone, or 
androgen deprivation (AD) alone. By 10 years after treatment, greater than 75% 
progress and over half succumb to prostate cancer. In contrast, the results with 
the combination of EBRT + AD or RP + AD have been very promising. Ten-year 
biochemical progression and overall survival rates are roughly 20% and 70%, 
respectively, for patients with subclinical lymph node involvement. Patients 
with a 10-year life expectancy should be treated aggressively with long-term AD 
combined with either EBRT or RP.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/srao.2003.50011
PMID: 12728441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2003 Apr;13(2):158-65. doi: 10.1053/srao.2003.50015.

Brachytherapy for recurrent prostate cancer after radiation therapy.

Beyer DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Arizona Oncology Services, Scottsdale, AZ, USA. dbeyer@azoncology.com

Prostate cancer specialists routinely see patients with recurrent disease after 
external beam irradiation. Traditionally, only palliative treatments have been 
offered with hormonal intervention or simple observation. A significant, 
although as yet uncertain, percentage of these patients will have only locally 
recurrent cancer and thus are potentially candidates for curative salvage 
therapy. Permanent brachytherapy with (125)I or (103)Pd has been used in an 
attempt to eradicate the remaining prostate cancer and prevent the need for 
additional intervention. It is particularly critical in this population to 
identify those patients most likely to have distant metastases or who are 
unlikely to suffer death or morbidity from their local recurrence to avoid 
potential treatment morbidity in patients unlikely to benefit from any 
intervention. Review of the literature shows 5-year freedom from second relapse 
after salvage brachytherapy in approximately 50% of patients, although with 
careful case selection second relapse free survival rates of up to 83% may be 
achieved. A schema is presented, based on the available data, suggesting that it 
may be possible to identify those patients who are most likely to benefit from 
salvage treatment. These include men with the following: (1) histologically 
confirmed local recurrence, (2) no clinical or radiologic evidence of distant 
disease, (3) adequate urinary function (IPSS < 20), (4) age and overall health 
indicative of >5- to 10-year life expectancy, (5) prolonged disease-free 
interval (>2 years) from primary radiation therapy, (6) long prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) doubling time (>6-9 months), (7) Gleason sum </=6, and (7) PSA <10 
ng/mL at the time of recurrence.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/srao.2003.50015
PMID: 12728445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Mar;16 Suppl 2:259-66.

Growth and puberty in thalassemia major.

Raiola G(1), Galati MC, De Sanctis V, Caruso Nicoletti M, Pintor C, De Simone M, 
Arcuri VM, Anastasi S.

Author information:
(1)Auxoendocrinological Unit and Department of Pediatrics, Pugliese Ciaccio 
Hospital, Catanzaro, Italy. acsa@abramo.it

Present transfusional regimen protocols increase the life expectancy of patients 
with beta-thalassemia major, but cause a progressive iron overload that can be 
prevented or limited only by appropriate iron chelation. Siderosis is 
responsible for the clinical complications of the disease. Short stature and 
hypogonadism are extremely frequent in patients with thalassemia. Many factors 
are responsible for short stature in patients with thalassemia, the most 
important of which are dysfunction of the GH-IGF-I axis and desferoxamine 
(DFX)-induced bone dysplasia. Hypogonadism is the most frequent endocrine 
complication, mostly due to gonadotrophins deficiency secondary to iron 
overload. Sex steroid treatment for induction of puberty and/or maintenance of 
sexual characteristics is necessary. Both short stature and hypogonadism are 
present in a significant percentage of bone marrow transplanted patients with 
thalassemia. Factors responsible for short stature are previous iron overload, 
liver impairment, DFX treatment, and toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents. In 
some patients absence of pubertal development is due to gonadotropin 
insufficiency, probably secondary to previous iron overload; other patients 
exhibit hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism due to the toxic effect of 
chemotherapeutic agents on the gonads. Both groups need hormonal replacement 
therapy. These data support the need for vigilant follow-up of patients with 
thalassemia before and after transplantation, in order to treat endocrine 
dysfunctions at the appropriate age.

PMID: 12729401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Ann Intern Med. 2003 May 6;138(9):724-35. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-9-200305060-00009.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative management strategies for patients with 
solitary pulmonary nodules.

Gould MK(1), Sanders GD, Barnett PG, Rydzak CE, Maclean CC, McClellan MB, Owens 
DK.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Section, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, 3801 
Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA. gould@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) 
is a potentially useful but expensive test to diagnose solitary pulmonary 
nodules.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of strategies for pulmonary nodule 
diagnosis and to specifically compare strategies that did and did not include 
FDG-PET.
DESIGN: Decision model.
DATA SOURCES: Accuracy and complications of diagnostic tests were estimated by 
using meta-analysis and literature review. Modeled survival was based on data 
from a large tumor registry. Cost estimates were derived from Medicare 
reimbursement and other sources.
TARGET POPULATION: All adult patients with a new, noncalcified pulmonary nodule 
seen on chest radiograph.
TIME HORIZON: Patient lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: 40 clinically plausible combinations of 5 diagnostic 
interventions, including computed tomography, FDG-PET, transthoracic needle 
biopsy, surgery, and watchful waiting.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The cost-effectiveness of strategies depended 
critically on the pretest probability of malignancy. For patients with low 
pretest probability (26%), strategies that used FDG-PET selectively when 
computed tomography results were possibly malignant cost as little as 20 000 
dollars per QALY gained. For patients with high pretest probability (79%), 
strategies that used FDG-PET selectively when computed tomography results were 
benign cost as little as 16 000 dollars per QALY gained. For patients with 
intermediate pretest probability (55%), FDG-PET strategies cost more than 220 
000 dollars per QALY gained because they were more costly but only marginally 
more effective than computed tomography-based strategies.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The choice of strategy also depended on the 
risk for surgical complications, the probability of nondiagnostic needle biopsy, 
the sensitivity of computed tomography, and patient preferences for time spent 
in watchful waiting. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, FDG-PET strategies 
were cost saving or cost less than 100 000 dollars per QALY gained in 76.7%, 
24.4%, and 99.9% of computer simulations for patients with low, intermediate, 
and high pretest probability, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: FDG-PET should be used selectively when pretest probability and 
computed tomography findings are discordant or in patients with intermediate 
pretest probability who are at high risk for surgical complications. In most 
other circumstances, computed tomography-based strategies result in similar 
quality-adjusted life-years and lower costs.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-9-200305060-00009
PMID: 12729427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2003 May;58(5):M425-31. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/58.5.m425.

Cardiovascular advantages among the offspring of centenarians.

Terry DF(1), Wilcox M, McCormick MA, Lawler E, Perls TT.

Author information:
(1)The New England Centenarian Study, Geriatrics Section, Boston Medical Center, 
88 East Newton Street, F-4, Boston, MA 02118, USA. laterry@bu.edu

Erratum in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 Jul;63(7):706.

BACKGROUND: A significant component of the ability to survive to exceptional old 
age may be familial. This study assessed the prevalence of age-related diseases 
in the offspring of centenarians.
METHODS: The health histories of centenarian offspring (n=177) and controls 
(n=166) were assessed from 1997-2000 using a cross-sectional study design. The 
offspring of 192 centenarian subjects enrolled in the nationwide New England 
Centenarian Study were recruited and enrolled. Controls consisted of offspring 
whose parents were born in the same years as the centenarians but at least 1 of 
whom died at an average life expectancy. Prevalence of age-related diseases 
including heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, cancer, osteoporosis, stroke, 
dementia, cataracts, glaucoma, macular degeneration, depression, Parkinson's 
disease, thyroid disease, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were 
compared between the two groups.
RESULTS: Centenarian offspring had a 56% reduced relative prevalence of heart 
disease (odds ratio [OR] 0.44, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.24, 0.80), a 66% 
reduced relative prevalence of hypertension (OR 0.34, 95% CI 0.21, 0.55), and 
59% reduced relative prevalence of diabetes (OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.15, 1.12) after 
multivariate adjusted analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The offspring of centenarians demonstrate a markedly reduced 
prevalence of diseases associated with aging, in particular for cardiovascular 
disease and cardiovascular risk factors. Along with their parents, the 
centenarian offspring, who are in their 70s and 80s, may prove to be a valuable 
cohort to study genetic and environmental factors conducive to the ability to 
live to very old age in good health.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/58.5.m425
PMID: 12730251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2003 May;58(3):S171-8. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/58.3.s171.

The Effect of altering ADL thresholds on active life expectancy estimates for 
older persons.

Lynch SM(1), Brown JS, Harmsen KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Office of Population Research, Princeton 
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA. slynch@princeton.edu

OBJECTIVES: Research on disability and active life expectancy (ALE) has often 
criticized the measurement of disability but has rarely empirically investigated 
the effect of changing measurement. The purpose of this study was to determine 
whether altering the number of activities of daily living (ADLs) required to 
consider an individual "disabled" affects population-based ALE estimates after 
considering parametric uncertainty and sampling error.
METHODS: The authors develop a Bayesian approach to estimating multistate life 
