RESULTS: Overall survival and QAS were 24 weeks and 10.5 weeks, respectively. 
Perioperative morbidity and mortality were 5.2 % and 1.7 % in the surgery group 
and 1.5 % and 1.5 % in the biopsy group, respectively (p > 0.05). Tumor 
resection gained favorable prognostic importance for patients with midline shift 
in terms of both survival and QAS (p < 0.0001). Otherwise, radiation therapy 
alone was as effective as surgery plus radiation therapy (concordant finding). A 
pretreatment Karnofsky Score (KPS) < 70 was an unfavorable predictor for QAS (p 
< 0.002) but not for survival (discordant finding). Median QAS for patients with 
a pretreatment KPS < 70 was only 10 weeks. Age did not reach prognostic 
relevance.
CONCLUSION: The dramatic decrease of QAS as compared with survival indicates 
extremely limited posttreatment improvement and/or rapid deterioration of the 
neurological score after standard treatment for the older subpopulation with 
glioblastoma multiforme. Supportive treatment should be considered for patients 
with a pretreatment KPS < 70.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-003-1036-x
PMID: 12736735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2003 May;51(5):439-44. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-003-0580-5. Epub 2003 Mar 12.

Clinical and pharmacologic study of tributyrin: an oral butyrate prodrug.

Edelman MJ(1), Bauer K, Khanwani S, Tait N, Trepel J, Karp J, Nemieboka N, Chung 
EJ, Van Echo D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer 
Center, 22 S. Greene Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. medelman@umm.edu

PURPOSE: Butyrate is a small polar compound able to produce terminal 
differentiation and apoptosis in a variety of in vitro models at levels above 
50-100 microM. Previously our group demonstrated that daily oral administration 
of the prodrug, tributyrin, is able to briefly achieve levels >100 microM. Given 
in vitro data that differentiating activity requires continuous butyrate 
exposure, the short t1/2 of the drug and a desire to mimic the effects of an 
intravenous infusion, we evaluated a three times daily schedule.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Enrolled in this study were 20 patients with advanced 
solid tumors for whom no other therapy was available, had life expectancy 
greater than 12 weeks, and normal organ function. They were treated with 
tributyrin at doses from 150 to 200 mg/kg three times daily. Blood was sampled 
for pharmacokinetic analysis prior to dosing and at 15 and 30 min and 1, 1.5, 2, 
2.5, 3, 3.5 and 4 h thereafter.
RESULTS: The patients entered comprised 15 men and 5 women with a median age of 
61 years (range 30-74 years). Prior therapy regimens included: chemotherapy 
(median two prior regimens, range none to five), radiation therapy (one), no 
prior therapy (one). There was no dose-limiting toxicity. Escalation was halted 
at the 200 mg/kg three times daily level due to the number of capsules required. 
A median butyrate concentration of 52 microM was obtained but there was 
considerable interpatient variability. No objective responses were seen. There 
were four patients with prolonged disease stabilization ranging from 3 to 23 
months; median progression-free survival was 55 days. Two patients with 
chemotherapy-refractory non-small-cell lung cancer had survived for >1 year at 
the time of this report without evidence of progression.
CONCLUSION: Tributyrin is well tolerated and levels associated with in vitro 
activity are achieved with three times daily dosing.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-003-0580-5
PMID: 12736763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2003 May;89(3-4):238-42. doi: 10.1007/s00421-003-0802-x.
 Epub 2003 Mar 25.

Growth trend of the quadriceps femoris muscle in junior Olympic weight lifters: 
an 18-month follow-up survey.

Kanehisa H(1), Funato K, Kuno S, Fukunaga T, Katsuta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Komaba 
3-8-1, Meguro-ku, 153-8902 Tokyo, Japan. hkane@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Isometric torque and the cross-sectional area (CSA) of the quadriceps femoris 
muscle (QF) were measured twice at an interval of 18 months in seven junior 
Olympic weight lifters (aged 15.5-17.1 years at the start of the study) to 
investigate the growth trend of this muscle group in junior athletes 
specializing in strength and power events. The CSAs of the QF and its four 
constituent muscles were determined at 30% (proximal to the knee), 50%, and 70% 
of femur length (Fl) using a magnetic resonance imaging method. Only at 30%Fl 
were significant increases found in the CSAs of the QF and all constituent 
muscles, except for the rectus femoris. At this level, the CSA of the vastus 
medialis relative to the QF decreased significantly, suggesting a predominant 
hypertrophy in the vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis muscles. Isometric 
torque during knee extension increased significantly compared, to the CSA for 
the QF measured at the three levels. Thus, the present results indicate that, at 
least at high school age, the QF for junior Olympic weight lifters is 
characterized by a preferential hypertrophy at the level proximal to the knee 
joint, with an increase in knee extension torque relative to the CSA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-003-0802-x
PMID: 12736831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Int J Prosthodont. 2003 Mar-Apr;16(2):150-6.

A long-term retrospective and clinical follow-up study of In-Ceram Alumina FPDs.

Olsson KG(1), FÃ¼rst B, Andersson B, Carlsson GE.

Author information:
(1)kg.olsson@mbox301.swipnet.se

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term outcome of 
In-Ceram Alumina fixed partial dentures (FPD) performed in a general dental 
practice from 1992 to 1996.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was conducted as a retrospective assessment of 
up to 9 years of patient records and a clinical follow-up examination of 
patients treated with In-Ceram Alumina FPDs. In 37 patients, 42 FPDs had been 
inserted during the selected period. After randomized selection, 16 patients 
with 18 FPDs were examined clinically. The most common restorations comprised 
two and three units. Cantilever extensions were present on 64% of the FPDs. 
Sixty-two percent of the FPDs extended into the posterior region.
RESULTS: The mean time in function for the 42 FPDs was 76 months (range 2 to 110 
months), with 86% being followed for > 5 years. No adverse effects to either 
periodontal or pulpal tissues were recorded. The technical quality was very 
good, and patient satisfaction very high. Five FPDs fractured during the 
observation period, resulting in a total failure rate of 12%. Two of these FPDs 
fractured as a consequence of external trauma. Excluding these, the total 
survival rate during the observation period was 93%. Cumulative survival rate 
according to life table analysis was 93% after 5 years and 83% after 10 years.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the In-Ceram Alumina short-span FPD is a 
viable prosthetic alternative.

PMID: 12737246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2003 Apr 11;1:4. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-4.

What is the relationship between the minimally important difference and health 
state utility values? The case of the SF-6D.

Walters SJ(1), Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. 
s.j.walters@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The SF-6D is a new single summary preference-based measure of health 
derived from the SF-36. Empirical work is required to determine what is the 
smallest change in SF-6D scores that can be regarded as important and meaningful 
for health professionals, patients and other stakeholders.
OBJECTIVES: To use anchor-based methods to determine the minimally important 
difference (MID) for the SF-6D for various datasets.
METHODS: All responders to the original SF-36 questionnaire can be assigned an 
SF-6D score provided the 11 items used in the SF-6D have been completed. The 
SF-6D can be regarded as a continuous outcome scored on a 0.29 to 1.00 scale, 
with 1.00 indicating "full health". Anchor-based methods examine the 
relationship between an health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measure and an 
independent measure (or anchor) to elucidate the meaning of a particular degree 
of change. One anchor-based approach uses an estimate of the MID, the difference 
in the QoL scale corresponding to a self-reported small but important change on 
a global scale. Patients were followed for a period of time, then asked, using 
question 2 of the SF-36 as our global rating scale, (which is not part of the 
SF-6D), if there general health is much better (5), somewhat better (4), stayed 
the same (3), somewhat worse (2) or much worse (1) compared to the last time 
they were assessed. We considered patients whose global rating score was 4 or 2 
as having experienced some change equivalent to the MID. In patients who 
reported a worsening of health (global change of 1 or 2) the sign of the change 
in the SF-6D score was reversed (i.e. multiplied by minus one). The MID was then 
taken as the mean change on the SF-6D scale of the patients who scored (2 or 4).
RESULTS: This paper describes the MID for the SF-6D from seven longitudinal 
studies that had previously used the SF-36.
CONCLUSIONS: From the seven reviewed studies (with nine patient groups) the MID 
for the SF-6D ranged from 0.010 to 0.048, with a weighted mean estimate of 0.033 
(95% CI: 0.029 to 0.037). The corresponding Standardised Response Means (SRMs) 
ranged from 0.11 to 0.48, with a mean of 0.30 and were mainly in the "small to 
moderate" range using Cohen's criteria, supporting the MID results. Using the 
half-standard deviation (of change) approach the mean effect size was 0.051 
(range 0.033 to 0.066). Further empirical work is required to see whether or not 
this holds true for other patient groups and populations.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-4
PMCID: PMC155547
PMID: 12737635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2003 May;11(3):173-82. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-003-0362-y. Epub 2003 May 9.

Arthroscopically assisted meniscal allograft transplantation with and without 
combined anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.

Yoldas EA(1), Sekiya JK, Irrgang JJ, Fu FH, Harner CD.

Author information:
(1)Holy Cross Hospital Medical Group, 6000 N. Federal Highway, Ft. Lauderdale, 
FL 33308, USA.

The menisci provide a vital role in load transmission across the knee joint as 
well as contribute to knee stability, particularly in the ACL-deficient knee. 
Loss of the meniscus, in part or in total, significantly alters joint function 
and predisposes the articular cartilage to degenerative changes, which has been 
well documented both clinically and radiographically. This study examined 
clinical and patient-reported outcomes following meniscal allograft 
transplantation with and without combined ACL reconstruction in a select group 
of 31 patients with complaints of pain and/or instability (34 meniscal 
allografts); 11 underwent isolated meniscal transplantation and 20 meniscal 
transplantation combined with ACL reconstruction. Bony fixation was performed 
with bone plugs for medial transplants and using a bone bridge for lateral 
transplants. All patients completed several knee-specific and general measures 
of health-related quality of life and underwent a comprehensive physical 
examination. Flexion weightbearing PA radiographs at latest follow-up were 
compared to those obtained preoperatively. Mean follow-up was 2.9 years (range 
2-5.5 years). The Activities of Daily Living and Sports Activities Scale scores 
were 86+/-11 and 78+/-16, respectively, and the average Lysholm score was 
84+/-14. There were no significant differences in these scores based upon which 
meniscus (medial or lateral) was transplanted, concurrent ACL reconstruction, or 
the degree of chondrosis at arthroscopy. SF-36 scores indicated that patients 
were functioning at a level similar to the age- and sex-matched population. 
Twenty-two patients stated they were greatly improved, 8 were somewhat improved, 
1 was without change. All but one patient reported that knee function and level 
of activity were normal or nearly normal. The average loss of motion compared to 
the noninvolved side was 3 degrees for extension and 9 degrees for flexion. All 
but one patient had a negative or 1+ Lachman's test. The remaining patient had a 
2+ Lachman's test. Assessment with the KT-1000 arthrometer revealed a 
side-to-side difference of 2 mm (range -2 mm to 7 mm). Average hop and vertical 
jump indices were both 85% of the contralateral extremity. No statistically 
significant joint space narrowing was observed by radiography over time. 
Meniscal allograft transplantation with and without combined ACL reconstruction 
in carefully selected patients with complaints of compartmental joint line pain 
and/or instability appears able to provide relief of symptoms and restore 
relatively high levels of function, particularly during activities of daily 
living.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-003-0362-y
PMID: 12739011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Surg Endosc. 2003 Aug;17(8):1283-7. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8814-x. Epub
2003  May 13.

Transanal endoscopic microsurgery and radical surgery for T1 and T2 rectal 
cancer.

Lee W(1), Lee D, Choi S, Chun H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Gastrointestinal Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University, School of Medicine, #50, Ilwon-Dong, Kangnam-Ku, Seoul, 
Korea.

BACKGROUND: Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) has gained increasing 
acceptance as a local treatment of early rectal cancer. The purpose of this 
study was to compare the results of TEM and radical surgery in patients with T1 
and T2 rectal cancer.
METHODS: From October 1994 to December 2000, 74 patients with T1 and T2 rectal 
adenocarcinoma treated with TEM were compared with 100 patients with T1N0M0 and 
T2N0M0 rectal adenocarcinoma treated with radical surgery. Retrospective 
analysis was performed regarding to recurrence and survival rate. Neither group 
received adjuvant chemoradiation. There was no significant difference in age, 
gender, tumor location, or follow-up period between the two groups. The only 
difference was in tumor size.
RESULTS: Of the 74 patients in TEM group, 52 were T1 (70.3%) and 22 were T2 
(29.7%). Of the 100 patients in radical surgery group, 17 were T1 (17%) and 83 
patients were T2 (83%). The 5-year local recurrence rates were 4.1% for T1, 
19.5% for T2 after TEM, 0% for T1, and 9.4% for T2 after radical surgery. There 
was no statistical difference between the TEM and radical surgery groups for T1 
rectal cancer ( p = 0.95), but for T2 rectal cancer, the 5-year local recurrence 
rate was higher after TEM than after radical surgery ( p = 0.04). There were no 
significant statistical difference between the two groups in terms of the 5-year 
disease-free survival rate and the survival rate.
CONCLUSIONS: For T1 rectal cancer, there was no difference in recurrence or 
5-year survival rate between the TEM and the radical surgery groups. For T2 
rectal cancer, there was no statistical difference in the 5-year survival rate 
between the two groups, but TEM carried higher risk of local recurrence. 
Therefore, careful selection of the patients is required for TEM, and when 
proper muscle invasion is proven, the TEM procedure should be supplemented by 
further treatment, or radical surgery should be performed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8814-x
PMID: 12739119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Clin Cornerstone. 2003;5(1):28-36. doi: 10.1016/s1098-3597(03)90006-8.

Treatment of acute exacerbations of COPD.

Blanchard AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, Georgia, 
USA.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), the fourth leading cause of death 
in the United States, is increasing worldwide and is projected to be the third 
leading cause of death in the United States by the year 2020 (1). It affects 
nearly 16 million Americans, and more than $18 billion is spent annually on 
medications, physician visits, and hospitalizations. COPD is characterized by 
chronic airflow obstruction with episodic acute exacerbations, which result in 
increased morbidity and mortality. Patients hospitalized with exacerbations have 
an overall mortality rate of 3% to 4%, and up to 24% of patients requiring care 
in the intensive care unit die (2). Since forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
correlates closely with life expectancy and exacerbation rate, early diagnosis 
(through spirometric testing) and prevention may reduce acute exacerbations and 
health care costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s1098-3597(03)90006-8
PMID: 12739309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Heart Advis. 2003 Apr;6(4):3.

CVD mortality rates decline. Life expectancy rises as a result; typical patients 
are older.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12739445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2003 May;4(5):675-83. doi:
10.1517/14656566.4.5.675.

Sex differences in heart disease incidence and prevalence: implications for 
intervention.

Witt BJ(1), Roger VL.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Women present clinically with coronary disease later in life than men do, and 
given their increased life expectancy compared to men, represent an increasingly 
larger proportion of patients with coronary disease. Coronary disease in women 
results in a large human and financial burden to the healthcare system. 
Effective prevention measures should integrate the clinical and social features 
of coronary disease which are specific to women and should be anchored within a 
comprehensive understanding of the burden of coronary disease in women. While 
attention has been recently directed at coronary disease in women, there is 
relatively limited information on the incidence and prevalence of coronary 
disease in women and how it may have changed over time; few studies include 
sufficient numbers of women to draw appropriate inference. This paper reviews 
the epidemiology of coronary disease in women and discusses the implications for 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.4.5.675
PMID: 12739993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Gut. 2003 Jun;52(6):820-6. doi: 10.1136/gut.52.6.820.

Incidence of gastroduodenal ulcers in patients with rheumatoid arthritis after 
12 weeks of rofecoxib, naproxen, or placebo: a multicentre, randomised, double 
blind study.

Hawkey CJ(1), Laine L, Simon T, Quan H, Shingo S, Evans J; Rofecoxib Rheumatoid 
Arthritis Endoscopy Study Group.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital, Nottingham, United Kingdom. cj.hawkey@nottingham.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Gut. 2003 Dec;52(12):1800.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies in patients with osteoarthritis have suggested that 
the selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor rofecoxib results in less 
gastrointestinal damage than non-selective non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). This study compared the incidence of endoscopically detected 
gastroduodenal ulcers in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with rofecoxib or 
a non-selective NSAID.
METHODS: In this multicentre, randomised, double blind, 12 week study, patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis were allocated to rofecoxib 50 mg once daily (n=219), 
naproxen 500 mg twice daily (n=220), or placebo (n=221). Endoscopy was performed 
at baseline and at six and 12 weeks. Lifetable analysis and log rank tests were 
used to analyse the incidence of gastroduodenal ulcers > or =3 mm. Gastric or 
duodenal ulcers > or =5 mm and erosions were also evaluated as secondary end 
points. Tolerability was assessed by adverse events.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of ulcers > or =3 mm at 12 weeks was 
significantly higher in patients on naproxen (25.5%) than in patients receiving 
rofecoxib (6.8%; difference 18.7% (95% confidence interval (CI) 11.7%, 25.7%); 
p<0.001) or placebo (2.9%; difference 22.6% (95% CI 16.1%, 29.1%); p<0.001). The 
difference between rofecoxib (6.8%) and placebo (2.9%) did not reach statistical 
significance (p=0.066). Results were similar for ulcers > or =5 mm and for mean 
changes from baseline in the number of gastroduodenal erosions. The overall 
incidence of clinical adverse events was similar among treatment groups (61% of 
patients on placebo, 62% in patients on rofecoxib, and 66% in patients on 
naproxen).
CONCLUSIONS: Rofecoxib 50 mg daily (twice the dose recommended for this patient 
population) resulted in a lower incidence of endoscopically detected 
gastroduodenal ulcers and erosions than treatment with naproxen 500 mg twice 
daily.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.52.6.820
PMCID: PMC1773685
PMID: 12740337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Pediatr Card Surg Annu. 2003;6:9-15. doi: 
10.1053/pcsu.2003.50011.

Technical aspects of the combined arterial switch and senning operation for 
congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries.

Devaney EJ(1), Ohye RG, Bove EL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiac Surgery, Division of Pediatric Cardiac Surgery, University 
of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (ccTGA) is a rare 
defect characterized by discordant atrioventricular and ventriculoarterial 
connections. Symptoms result from one or a combination of associated 
cardiovascular malformations, including ventricular septal defect, pulmonary 
stenosis or atresia, and tricuspid valve dysfunction. Survival of patients with 
ccTGA is often determined by the associated anomalies, but even in isolation 
ccTGA results in a diminished life expectancy. Regurgitation of the tricuspid 
valve and decreased morphologic right ventricular function tend to develop and 
worsen over time. Anatomic repair by double switch technique may improve 
survival of patients with ccTGA by establishing the morphologic left ventricle 
in the systemic circulation.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/pcsu.2003.50011
PMID: 12740767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Int J Cancer. 2003 Jul 10;105(5):674-80. doi: 10.1002/ijc.11132.

Differential prognostic impact of the cyclins E and B in premenopausal and 
postmenopausal women with lymph node-negative breast cancer.

Rudolph P(1), KÃ¼hling H, Alm P, FernÃ¶ M, Baldetorp B, Olsson H, Parwaresch R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Kiel, Michaelisstrasse 11, 24105 Kiel, 
Germany. prudolph@path.uni-kiel.de

Searching for new prognostic factors, we investigated the influence of cyclin 
expression on breast cancer prognosis. A total of 273 archival tumor specimens 
from patients with pT1/pT2 N0 breast cancers treated by surgery and local 
irradiation were immunostained for cyclins E, A and B. Outcome was evaluated as 
metastasis-free (MFS) and disease-specific survival (DSS) over a median 
observation period of 99 months. In postmenopausal women, DSS was significantly 
predicted by cyclin E, and in premenopausal patients by cyclin B. No statistical 
significance was found for cyclin A. When the prognostic impact of cyclins was 
compared to that of standard prognostic indicators in a multivariate analysis, 
both cyclin E and cyclin B were selected as independent predictors of survival 
in postmenopausal and premenopausal patients, respectively. After inclusion of 
Ki-67 in the model, cyclin E lost its significance, whereas cyclin B remained 
the only independent prognostic factor with a hazard ratio of 4.5 (p = 0.026) 
for tumor-related death. Assessment of cyclin expression may, therefore, refine 
current prognostic models if considered in relation to menopausal status. The 
prognostic relevance of cyclins is likely attributable to an influence on 
proliferation, cell survival and genetic instability. Awareness of the molecular 
mechanisms leading to deregulated cyclin expression may guide decisions for 
risk-adapted therapy regimens.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.11132
PMID: 12740917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Strength Cond Res. 2003 May;17(2):374-8. doi: 
10.1519/1533-4287(2003)017<0374:awtsei>2.0.co;2.

Adding weights to stretching exercise increases passive range of motion for 
healthy elderly.

Swank AM(1), Funk DC, Durham MP, Roberts S.

Author information:
(1)Exercise Physiology Lab, University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky 
40292, USA. swank@louisville.edu

Stretching exercise is effective for increasing joint range of motion (ROM). 
However, the Surgeon General's Report and the American College of Sports 
Medicine cite a lack of studies identifying strategies capable of increasing the 
effectiveness of stretching exercise. This investigation evaluated adding modest 
weight (0.45-1.35 kg) to a stretching exercise routine (Body Recall [BR]) on 
joint ROM. Forty-three subjects ages 55-83 years participated in 1 of 2 training 
groups, BR, BR with weights (BR+W), or a control group (C). ROM was evaluated at 
the neck, shoulder, hip, knee, and ankle before and after 10 weeks of exercise. 
Using ANCOVA, significant differences (p < 0.01) were observed for right and 
left cervical rotation, hip extension, ankle dorsiflexion, ankle plantar 
flexion, and shoulder flexion. Post hoc analysis revealed that cervical rotation 
(left and right), hip extension, and ankle dorsiflexion for BR+W subjects 
differed significantly from BR and C (p < 0.01). Significant differences with 
shoulder flexion and ankle plantar flexion were found for both BR and BR+W in 
comparison to C (p < 0.01). Results indicate that addition of weights enhanced 
the effectiveness of stretching exercise for increasing joint ROM with 4 of the 
6 selected measurements. Thus, a modest intensity exercise program that is 
within the reach of most elderly may significantly affect joint ROM and 
flexibility.

DOI: 10.1519/1533-4287(2003)017<0374:awtsei>2.0.co;2
PMID: 12741881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2003 Jun;55(2):143-51. doi: 
10.1016/s0147-6513(03)00007-1.

Using rotifer population demographic parameters to assess impacts of the 
degradation products from trinitrotoluene phytoremediation.

Hitchcock DR(1), McCutcheon SC, Smith MC.

Author information:
(1)Biological and Agricultural Engineering Department, University of Georgia, 
Athens, GA 30602, USA. dhitchcock@fs.fed.us

The objective of this study was to evaluate the chronic lethal and sublethal 
aquatic toxicity effects associated with the phytoremediation of water 
contaminated with 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) by the wetland plant species 
Myriophyllum aquaticum (parrot feather). Rotifers (Brachionus calyciflorus) 
feeding on an algal species (Nannochloropsis spp.) were used as the aquatic test 
organisms. Continuous flow laboratory microcosms were used to quantify effects 
on rotifer populations from TNT and the primary degradation product 
aminodinitrotoluene (ADNT) during and after phytoremediation. Rotifer 
demographic parameters from life tables, including survivorship, fecundity, 
reproductive values, net reproductive rate, generation time, intrinsic growth 
rate, and life expectancy, were used as measures of treatment effects. 
High-performance liquid chromatography analyses were performed to determine 
nitroaromatic concentrations. Results from this study have revealed significant 
differences in rotifer demographic parameters between microcosms with elevated 
initial TNT concentrations. Significant differences in demographic parameters 
also existed between the microcosms that did and did not receive 
phytoremediation treatment and the control microcosms. Study results have 
indicated that TNT phytoremediation via artificial wetlands not only may clean 
up hazardous waste at munitions sites but also may encourage the growth of 
aquatic populations such as rotifers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0147-6513(03)00007-1
PMID: 12742360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Jun;56(12):2367-77. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00241-1.

Social capital, life expectancy and mortality: a cross-national examination.

Kennelly B(1), O'Shea E, Garvey E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, The National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland. 
brendan.kennelly@nuigalway.ie <brendan.kennelly@nuigalway.ie>

This paper analyses the relationship between social capital and population 
health. The analysis is carried out within an econometric model of population 
health in 19 countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development countries using panel data covering three different time periods. 
Social capital is measured by the proportion of people who say that that they 
generally trust other people and by membership in voluntary associations. The 
model performs well in explaining health outcomes. We find very little 
statistically significant evidence that the standard indicators of social 
capital have a positive effect on population health. By contrast, per capita 
income and the proportion of health expenditure financed by the government are 
both significantly and positively associated with better health outcomes. The 
paper casts doubt upon the widely accepted hypothesis that social capital has a 
positive effect on health and illustrates the importance of testing this kind of 
hypothesis in an extended model.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00241-1
PMID: 12742601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Jun;56(12):2407-19. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00244-7.

The rule of rescue.

McKie J(1), Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Program Evaluation, Monash University, West Heidelberg, 
3081, Victoria, Australia. johnmckie@ains.net.au <johnmckie@ains.net.au>

Jonsen coined the term "Rule of Rescue"(RR) to describe the imperative people 
feel to rescue identifiable individuals facing avoidable death. In this paper we 
attempt to draw a more detailed picture of the RR, identifying its conflict with 
cost-effectiveness analysis, the preference it entails for identifiable over 
statistical lives, the shock-horror response it elicits, the preference it 
entails for lifesaving over non-lifesaving measures, its extension to 
non-life-threatening conditions, and whether it is motivated by duty or 
sympathy. We also consider the measurement problems it raises, and argue that 
quantifying the RR would probably require a two-stage procedure. In the first 
stage the size of the individual utility gain from a health intervention would 
be assessed using a technique such as the Standard Gamble or the Time Trade-Off, 
and in the second the social benefits arising from the RR would be quantified 
employing the Person Trade-Off. We also consider the normative status of the RR. 
We argue that it can be defended from a utilitarian point of view, on the ground 
that rescues increase well-being by reinforcing people's belief that they live 
in a community that places great value upon life. However, utilitarianism has 
long been criticised for failing to take sufficient account of fairness, and the 
case is no different here: fairness requires that we do not discriminate between 
individuals on morally irrelevant grounds, whereas being "identifiable" does not 
seem to be a morally relevant ground for discrimination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00244-7
PMID: 12742604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2003 Jun;27(3):504-9. doi:
10.1016/s1055-7903(03)00015-0.

Evolution of the prokaryotic protein translocation complex: a comparison of 
archaeal and bacterial versions of SecDF.

Eichler J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Ben Gurion University, P.O. Box 653, Beersheva 
84105, Israel. jeichler@bgumail.bgu.ac.il

Protein translocation across the prokaryotic plasma membrane occurs at the 
translocon, an evolutionarily conserved membrane-embedded proteinaceous complex. 
Together with the core components SecYE, prokaryotic translocons also contain 
auxilliary proteins, such as SecDF. Alignment of bacterial and archaeal SecDF 
protein sequences reveals the presence of a similar number of homologous regions 
within each protein. Moreover, the conserved sequence domains in the archaeal 
proteins are located in similar positions as their bacterial counterparts. When 
these domains are, however, compared along Bacteria-Archaea lines, a much lower 
degree of similarity is detected. In Bacteria, SecDF are thought to modulate the 
membrane association of SecA, the ATPase that provides the driving force for 
bacterial protein secretion. As no archaeal version of SecA has been detected, 
the sequence differences reported here may reflect functional differences 
between bacterial and archaeal SecDF proteins, and by extension, between the 
bacterial and archaeal protein translocation processes. Moreover, the apparent 
absence of SecDF in several completed archaeal genomes suggests that differences 
may exist in the process of protein translocation within the archaeal domain 
itself.

DOI: 10.1016/s1055-7903(03)00015-0
PMID: 12742754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Biol Chem. 2003 Jul 18;278(29):26418-22. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M303095200. Epub
 2003 May 12.

Effects of overexpression of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutases, 
catalase, and thioredoxin reductase genes on longevity in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Orr WC(1), Mockett RJ, Benes JJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Dedman Life Sciences Building, Southern 
Methodist University, Dallas, Texas 75275, USA.

The overexpression of antioxidative enzymes such as CuZn-superoxide dismutase 
(SOD), Mn-SOD, and catalase has previously been reported to extend life span in 
transgenic flies (Drosophila melanogaster). The purpose of this study was to 
determine whether life-extending effects persist if the recipient control 
strains of flies are relatively long-lived. Accordingly, the life spans of large 
numbers of replicate control and overexpressor lines were determined in two 
long-lived genetic backgrounds involving a combined total of >90,000 flies. 
Significant increases in the activities of both CuZn-SOD and catalase had no 
beneficial effect on survivorship in relatively long-lived y w mutant flies and 
were associated with slightly decreased life spans in wild type flies of the 
Oregon-R strain. The introduction of additional transgenes encoding Mn-SOD or 
thioredoxin reductase in the same genetic background also failed to cause life 
span extension. In conjunction with data from earlier studies, the results show 
that increasing the activities of these major antioxidative enzymes above wild 
type levels does not decrease the rate of aging in long-lived strains of 
Drosophila, although there may be some effect in relatively short-lived strains.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M303095200
PMID: 12743125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Neurology. 2003 May 13;60(9):1532-4. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000061477.03862.4d.

Long-term outcome of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.

Sakaida M(1), Takeuchi K, Ishinaga H, Adachi M, Majima Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Mie University School of Medicine, Tsu, 
Japan. msakaida@ztv.ne.jp

To clarify long-term outcome of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), 50 
patients were followed up for a mean of 52 months. Overall recurrence rate by 
Kaplan-Meier estimation was 37% at 60 months. The patients with horizontal canal 
BPPV (n = 19) had a significantly higher recurrence rate (50%) at 60 months than 
those with posterior canal BPPV (n = 28; 26%). There was no significant 
association between recurrence rates and sex or age.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000061477.03862.4d
PMID: 12743247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Postgrad Med J. 2003 Apr;79(930):201-3. doi: 10.1136/pmj.79.930.201.

Impact of respiratory viral infections on cystic fibrosis.

Wat D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Wales, College of Medicine, Heath Park, Cardiff, UK. 
denniswat118@hotmail.edu

The life expectancy for patients with cystic fibrosis has improved remarkably 
over the last 20 years. Progressive deterioration of pulmonary function 
continues despite the aggressive use of antimicrobials. The absence of fever, 
neutrophilia, and systemic symptoms suggest that during pulmonary exacerbations 
other non-bacterial factors may have played a part. Some have suggested 
respiratory viruses as main suspects. So far, few data have illustrated the 
relationship of respiratory viruses and cystic fibrosis. By gaining further 
knowledge of this relationship, one may change future clinical practice and 
boost the survival of these patients.

DOI: 10.1136/pmj.79.930.201
PMCID: PMC1742676
PMID: 12743335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Nahrung. 2003 Apr;47(2):122-5. doi: 10.1002/food.200390022.

Influence of modified atmosphere packaging on the shelf life of prebaked pizza 
dough with and without preservative added.

RodrÃ­guez V(1), Medina L, Jordano R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science & Technology, University of CÃ³rdoba, Campus of 
Rabanales, Ctra. N-IV Km 396.a., E-14071 CÃ³rdoba, Spain.

The possible effect of different modified atmospheres on the shelf life of 
prebaked pizza dough, with and without added calcium propionate, was 
investigated. Three packaging atmospheres were tested: 20% CO2: 80% N2, 50% CO2: 
50% N2, 100% CO2, and air (control). Samples were examined daily for visible 
mold growth and analysed after 2, 8, 17 and 31 days throughout storage (15-20 
degrees C and 54-65% relative humidity, RH) for changes in gaseous composition, 
pH and microbial populations (mesophilic aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, lactic 
acid bacteria (LAB), and yeasts and molds). Microbiological results showed that 
molds had a greater sensitivity to CO2 than bacteria and yeasts. Products 
containing calcium propionate did not show mold growth throughout storage (31 
days) when packaged in air or in CO2-enriched atmospheres (20, 50 and 100%). 
However, in pizza dough without preservative (calcium propionate), mold growth 
was evident after 7 days, except under 100% CO2 atmosphere (13 days) regardless 
of the packaging atmosphere. From these results we conclude that the addition of 
calcium propionate had more and decisive influence on the shelf life extension 
of prebaked pizza dough.

DOI: 10.1002/food.200390022
PMID: 12744291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Vaccine. 2003 Jun 2;21(19-20):2541-7. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(03)00034-3.

The incidence of shingles and its implications for vaccination policy.

Chapman RS(1), Cross KW, Fleming DM.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham Research Unit of the Royal College of General Practitioners, 
Lordswood House, 54 Lordswood Road, Harborne, Birmingham B17 9DB, UK.

A vaccine is now available to prevent varicella-zoster infection, but its place 
in routine preventive care is not yet determined. The age specific incidence of 
shingles was examined separately by gender and age groups (15-24, 25-44, 45-64, 
65-74 and 75 years and more) over the years 1994-2001. These incidence data were 
applied to national available data for the UK on current life expectancy to 
calculate the risk of shingles infections at varying ages. The potential benefit 
of an effective vaccine was estimated using three models of vaccine efficacy 
applied separately to males and females at ages 50, 60 and 65 years and assuming 
vaccination at a single age. Similar calculations were made using a two dose 
strategy at age 45 and 65 years and at age 50 and 70 years. The cost per case 
saved was estimated from a vaccination cost of pound 40 per dose. The 
probability of having had an attack of shingles before age 45 years is 8.6% for 
males and 10.5% for females, The risk of acquiring shingles over an expected 
lifetime (assuming no preventive vaccination) for males aged 45 years is 22% and 
for females 32%. Whichever vaccine efficacy model was chosen, a single 
vaccination policy at age 65 years was the most favourable option in both males 
and females. A two age vaccination policy was estimated to increase the cost per 
case saved by 30% over a single age policy but administration at age 50 and 70 
years substantially increased the number of cases saved as compared with a 
single age policy and was potentially better than vaccination at 45 and 65 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(03)00034-3
PMID: 12744889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Int J Environ Health Res. 2003 Jun;13(2):207-14. doi: 
10.1080/0960312031000098107.

PM(10) and its impacts on health - a case study in Mumbai.

Joseph A(1), Ad S, Srivastava A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Science, Mumbai, India. neeri@giasbm01.vsnl.net.in

Air pollution in urban areas is a major health concern. Air pollution in cities 
has been linked to increased rates of mortality and morbidity in developed and 
developing countries. There is consistent evidence that the levels of fine 
particulate matter in the air are associated with risk of death from all causes 
of cardiovascular and respiratory illness. The present study predicts the health 
impact due to PM(10) (respirable particulate matter) in an industrial, 
residential and commercial area of Mumbai city. The estimates of the impacts on 
health is mainly based on Ostro's approach.

DOI: 10.1080/0960312031000098107
PMID: 12745340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Hematology. 2003 Jun;8(3):129-37. doi: 10.1080/1024533031000112257.

Cancer therapy: new targets for chemotherapy.

Novotny L(1), Szekeres T.

Author information:
(1)Kuwait Unviersity, Faculty of Parmacy, Department of Chemistry, Kuwait, 
Kuwait. novotny@hsc.kuniv.edu.kw

The number two cause of mortality in developed countries is cancer. Despite the 
enormous effort put into cancer prevention, early diagnosis and treatment, it is 
likely that the incidence of the cancer morbidity and mortality will increase 
for the foreseeable future. This is due to various factors such as increased 
life expectancy, changes in environment and also the socio-economic situation 
around the world. Some cancer attracts more attention than others and 
increasingly epidemiological information is reaching the general public and is 
beginning to influence behavior. It is now well recognized that, for example, 1 
of 8 women in the industrialized world will be diagnosed with breast cancer. 
Additionally, a strong correlation was established between lung cancer incidence 
and smoking and it is broadly accepted that the incidence of colon cancer is 
directly related to age and diet, and has been increasing over time. The current 
failure of preventive measures to significantly reduce the increasing incidence 
of these common tumors illustrates the importance of effective cancer treatment 
strategies, including chemotherapy. The combination of various anticancer drugs, 
given together with surgery and radiotherapy, gives hope to many patients. There 
has been recent evidence of improved therapeutic outcome with recent approaches 
and newer agents but for continuing effective chemotherapeutic treatment there 
is a need for a detailed understanding of their mechanisms of action and on the 
rationale of their application. This review attempts to provide up-to-date 
information regarding the development of new and innovative treatment strategies 
for cancer chemotherapy. Virtually, every year several of new targets for cancer 
therapy on both, cellular and molecular levels, are identified and new drugs 
enter not only clinical trials but also are included in well accepted and 
documented therapeutic protocols. As this review is in addition to our review 
published previously (Medical Principles and Practice 11, 2002, 117-125), we 
have tried to include new and innovative targets and drugs that attract 
attention at present. Although it is not possible to provide a complete list of 
all achievements and cover all work done in this field, we hope to be able to 
give some insight into this rapidly developing area.

DOI: 10.1080/1024533031000112257
PMID: 12745645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Hematology. 2003 Jun;8(3):145-50. doi: 10.1080/1024533031000107479.

Outcome and toxicity of salvage treatment on patients relapsing after autologous 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation--experience from a single center.

BÃ¼chler T(1), Hermosilla M, Ferra C, Encuentra M, Gallardo D, Berlanga J, Sarra 
J, GraÃ±ena A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Hematology, "Institut CatalÃ  d'Oncologia", Barcelona, 
Spain. tbuchler@fnbrno.cz

Patients with hematological malignancies who relapse after autologous stem cell 
transplantation (auto-SCT) generally have poor prognosis. Salvage treatment is 
often associated with severe toxicities. The aim of our study was to evaluate 
retrospectively the toxicity and outcome of rescue therapy in patients with 
acute leukemias, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), Hodgkin's disease (HD) and 
multiple myeloma (MM) relapsing after auto-SCT. Fifty-four of the 62 patients 
who relapsed received some form of salvage chemotherapy. Six (10%) patients were 
treated by second stem cell transplantation, which was allogeneic in 5 cases. 
Toxicity of the salvage therapy was significant. As a result of adverse effects, 
salvage therapy had to be discontinued or reduced in 14 patients (26%). The 
outcome of salvage was evaluated after 90 days. Of the treated patients, 14 
(26%) entered into complete remission with another 5 (9%) reaching partial 
response. The disease was stabilized in 5 patients (9%) but 30 (56%) patients 
were in progression or dead. Overall survival of the patients was poor with the 
median survival of 8.7 months after relapse and the leading cause of death being 
progressive disease. In conclusion, the development of new, more efficient 
regimens is critical if disease-free survival is to be increased in patients who 
relapse after auto SCT.

DOI: 10.1080/1024533031000107479
PMID: 12745647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Hematology. 2003 Jun;8(3):183-90. doi: 10.1080/1024533031000090829.

c-Myc oncogene and Cdc25A cell activating phosphatase expression in 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Aref S(1), Fouda M, El-Dosoky E, Menessy A, Mabed M, Saleeb M, Zalata K.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Clinical Pathology Department, Mansoura Faculty of Medicine, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egipt.

The product of proto-oncogene c-Myc is a potent activator of cell proliferation. 
The prognostic importance of the over expression of c-Myc and its 
transcriptional target Cdc25A in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients remains to 
be elucidated. To determine the role and the prognostic relevance of c-Myc and 
Cdc25A over expression in this group, we analyzed the expression of c-Myc 
oncoprotein by immunohistochemistry and Cdc25A mRNA by reverse-transcription 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the biopsied lymph nodes of 59 NHL 
patients. Over expression of c-Myc oncoprotein (P62) was observed in 32 out of 
59 samples (54.2%) and Cdc25A in 36 out of 59 (60.1%). The percentage of c-Myc 
oncoprotein and Cdc25A mRNA over expression was significantly increased from low 
grade (4/12=25%, 4/16=25%) through intermediate grade (9/20=45%, 10/20=50%) to 
high grade lymphoma (19/23=82.6%, 22/23=95.6%) respectively (P=0.001 for both). 
The proportion of patients with positive c-Myc and Cdc25A over expression was 
significantly higher among patients with elevated serum lactic dehydrogenase 
(sLDH), and serum beta 2 microglobulin compared to those with normal levels 
(P<0.05, <0.01, respectively). Moreover, 80 and 90% of NHL patients with bone 
marrow infiltration at diagnosis had c-Myc and Cdc25A over expression, 
respectively. On the other hand, positive c-Myc, and Cdc25A over expression were 
not significantly related to the grade of international prognostic index, or the 
presence of B symptoms or to histopathological type. The expression of c-Myc and 
Cdc25A was significantly elevated in those who died when compared to survivors 
(P<0.001 for both). Moreover, positive c-Myc and Cdc25A over expression was 
associated with shortened overall survival.
IN CONCLUSION: over expression of c-Myc and Cdc25A may be poor prognostic factor 
in NHL and associated with poor outcome. Assessments of c-Myc and Cdc25A 
expression in NHL at diagnosis are likely to be helpful in predicting patient 
outcome and selecting optimal therapeutic regimen.

DOI: 10.1080/1024533031000090829
PMID: 12745652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Hematology. 2003 Apr;8(2):83-90. doi: 10.1080/1024533031000090793.

Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in first remission adult 
acute myeloid leukaemia--an intention to treat analysis and comparison of 
outcome using a predictive model based on the MRC AML10 cohort.

Ewing JC(1), Robertson JD, Kell WJ, Burnett AK, Ryder D, Chang J, Morgenstern 
GR, Scarffe JH, Chopra R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematological Oncology, Christie Hospital, Manchester M20 4BX, 
UK. jewing@picr.man.ac.uk

The role of autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT) in 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) remains controversial. The current study evaluated 
the application of APBSCT in a large consecutive series of patients with 
untreated AML, and compared outcome with a predictive model based on MRC AML10 
data. Of 148 evaluable patients, 118 patients entered complete remission (CR) 
after induction therapy comprising three cycles of daunorubicin, cytosine 
arabinoside and oral 6-thioguanine. Of these patients, 68 (57%) proceeded to 
consolidation therapy with two courses of intermediate dose cytosine 
arabinoside, and stem cell mobilisation, and 40 of these patients (34%) 
underwent the APBSCT procedure after high dose busulphan conditioning. Harvest 
quality was the main factor precluding APBSCT. Five-year event-free survival 
(EFS) in patients who achieved CR was 38% and in APBSCT patients was 57%. There 
were no transplant-related deaths. No significant differences were demonstrated 
between observed and expected outcomes at 1 and 2 years, based on the predictive 
model derived from the MRC AML10 study. These data therefore indicate that only 
a third of eligible adult patients will undergo APBSCT. However, the results 
demonstrate favourable survival in such patients, with no transplant-related 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/1024533031000090793
PMID: 12745657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Diabetes Metab. 2003 Apr;29(2 Pt 3):S16-20.

[Implementation of the "Diabetes Prevention Program", in Europe].

[Article in French]

Hanaire-Broutin H(1), Picard S.

Author information:
(1)Service de DiabÃ©tologie, Maladies MÃ©taboliques et Nutrition, HÃ´pital 
Rangueil, CHU Toulouse, 31403 Toulouse Cedex 4. hanaire.h@chu-toulouse.fr

Prevention of type 2 diabetes has been a major issue for healthcare providers 
because of the high incidence and the high cost of diabetes. High cost is 
related to diabetes treatments, diabetes complications and the reduction of 
lifetime expectancy. The Diabetes Prevention Program study has recently shown 
that the prevention of diabetes is possible in patients with impaired glucose 
tolerance. In this study, diabetes was prevented either by metformin or by 
intensive lifestyle changes. Intensive lifestyle changes were even more 
effective than metformin in preventing diabetes. This article discusses how 
difficult it would be to implement this program in Europe. The difficulties 
would be both practical (identification of the high risk population, patients' 
motivation for intensive lifestyle changes) and economic. The implementation of 
the program in Europe would be theoretically cost-effective but would be 
technically very hard to do.

PMID: 12746616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. G Ital Nefrol. 2003 Mar-Apr;20(2):113-9.

[Anderson-Fabry's disease: diagnostic problems, therapeutic relevance, and 
clinical experience in the treatment of the disease with enzyme replacement 
therapy in nephropathic patients].

[Article in Italian]

Cianciaruso B(1), Pisani A, Andreucci MV, Parente N, Andria G, Federico S, 
Sabbatini M, Sessa A.

Author information:
(1)Cattedre di Nefrologia, UniversitÃ  "Federico II", Napoli, Italy. 
