cianciar@unina.it

Aim of this study was to confirm the initial results of a clinical trial on the 
treatment of Fabry's disease carried out in 13 Italian Nephrology Units. Fabry's 
disease is a rare, X-linked inherited disease, characterized by a-galactosidase 
(a-GAL) deficiency, a lysosomial enzymatic activity that results in the 
accumulation of neutral glycosphingolipids in the endothelial cells of the whole 
body, and causes painful crises, acroparesthesiae, angiokeratomas, corneal and 
lens dystrophy, and progressive damage to kidneys, heart and central nervous 
system, as well as potentially leading to death. The present availability of the 
recombinant form of a-GAL allows us to prevent or stop the long-term 
complications of this disease. A clinical trial, generously supported by 
Genzyme, was started on February 2001. In this trial 20 patients affected by 
Fabry's disease were periodically treated with agalsidase-beta, the commercial 
form of the enzyme. The initial results of the trial have indicated that the 
drug is capable of reducing both the number and intensity of painful crises, 
improving the patient's sensation of well-being, thus suggesting that this 
therapeutic approach might theoretically increase life expectancy in these 
patients.

PMID: 12746795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2003 Apr;41(4):445-51. doi: 10.1515/CCLM.2003.067.

Haemophilia B: from molecular diagnosis to gene therapy.

Castaldo G(1), Nardiello P, Bellitti F, Santamaria R, Rocino A, Coppola A, di 
Minno G, Salvatore F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biochimica e Biotecnologie Mediche, Università di Napoli 
Federico II and CEINGE-Biotecnologie avanzate, Napoli, Italy. 
castaldo@dbbm.unina.it

Thanks to its typical expression, haemophilia can be identified in writings from 
the second century AD. Haemophilia B, an X-linked recessive bleeding disorder 
due to factor IX (FIX) deficiency, has an incidence of about 1:30,000 live male 
births. The factor 9 (F9) gene was mapped in 1984 on Xq27.1. Haemophilia is 
diagnosed from prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and FIX 
levels. Carrier females are usually asymptomatic and must be identified only 
with molecular analysis. Linkage analysis of F9 polymorphisms is rapid and 
inexpensive but limited by non-informative families, recombinant events, and the 
high incidence of germline mutations; thus, various procedures have been used 
for the direct scan of F9 mutations. We set up a novel denaturing high 
performance liquid chromatographic procedure to scan the F9 gene. This rapid, 
reproducible procedure detected F9 mutations in 100% of a preliminary cohort of 
18 haemophilia B patients. Parallel to the development of more efficient 
diagnostic tools, the life expectancy and reproductive fitness of haemophilic 
patients have greatly improved and will continue to improve thanks to the use of 
less immunogenic recombinant FIX. Hopefully, new approaches based on gene 
therapy now being evaluated in clinical trials will revolutionise haemophilia B 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1515/CCLM.2003.067
PMID: 12747585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Lancet. 2003 May 10;361(9369):1603-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13310-7.

Effect of spiritual well-being on end-of-life despair in terminally-ill cancer 
patients.

McClain CS(1), Rosenfeld B, Breitbart W.

Author information:
(1)Fordham University, Bronx, NY 10458, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2003 Aug 2;362(9381):408.

BACKGROUND: The importance of spirituality in coping with a terminal illness is 
becoming increasingly recognised. We aimed to assess the relation between 
spiritual well-being, depression, and end-of-life despair in terminally-ill 
cancer patients.
METHODS: 160 patients in a palliative care hospital with a life expectancy of 
less than 3 months were interviewed with a series of standardised instruments, 
including the functional assessment of chronic illness therapy-spiritual 
well-being scale, the Hamilton depression rating scale, the Beck hopelessness 
scale, and the schedule of attitudes toward hastened death. Suicidal ideation 
was based on responses to the Hamilton depression rating scale.
FINDINGS: Significant correlations were seen between spiritual well-being and 
desire for hastened death (r=-0.51), hopelessness (r=-0.68), and suicidal 
ideation (r=-0.41). Results of multiple regression analyses showed that 
spiritual well-being was the strongest predictor of each outcome variable and 
provided a unique significant contribution beyond that of depression and 
relevant covariates. Additionally, depression was highly correlated with desire 
for hastened death in participants low in spiritual well-being (r=0.40, 
p<0.0001) but not in those high in spiritual well-being (r=0.20, p=0.06).
INTERPRETATION: Spiritual well-being offers some protection against end-of-life 
despair in those for whom death is imminent. Our findings have important 
implications for palliative care practice. Controlled research assessing the 
effect of spirituality-based interventions is needed to establish what methods 
can help engender a sense of peace and meaning.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13310-7
PMID: 12747880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Chirurg. 2003 May;74(5):395-8. doi: 10.1007/s00104-003-0631-9.

[Mesenteric ischemia. Surgical epidemiology--when to take it into 
consideration?].

[Article in German]

Wolf AM(1), Henne-Bruns D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Viszeral- und Transplantationschirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Ulm. 
anna-maria.wolf@medizin.uni-ulm.de

Diagnostic and therapeutic treatment modalities have developed over the last few 
years. However, the mortality rate of mesenteric ischemia is still high. The 
incidence amounts to 2-4 patients in 100,000 inhabitants. This is due to the 
fact that disturbances in the blood circulation of the intestine are not 
recognized early enough. While clinical symptoms are different during the acute 
and chronic course of mesenteric ischemia, the diagnostic and therapeutic 
consequences are similar. In order to decrease the mortality rate, it is 
important to keep mesenteric ischemia in mind when confronted with abdominal 
pain in elderly patients. This is particularly important as life expectancy in 
the western population is increasing.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-003-0631-9
PMID: 12748786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Chirurg. 2003 May;74(5):444-50; discussion 450-1. doi: 
10.1007/s00104-002-0577-3.

[Indicators of quality in surgical treatment of rectal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Junginger T(1), Kneist W, Sultanov F, Heintz A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie der Johannes 
Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz.

INTRODUCTION: For the assessment of surgical therapy for rectal cancer, 
perioperative and oncological as well as aspects of quality of life have to be 
taken into consideration. The objective of the present analysis was to identify 
indicators allowing assessment of the quality of the surgical intervention.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between March 1997 and August 1998,50 patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the rectum were operated on by five surgeons according to the 
concept of total or partial mesorectal excision. In 4 patients an anterior, in 
35 a low anterior resection, and in 11 an abdominoperineal resection was 
performed. There was a stage IV (UICC) present in 9 cases, and in 18 patients 
the tumor extension was restricted to the wall. The demographic and 
perioperative data as well as the results of the follow-up examination were 
registered prospectively. The median follow-up period amounted to 44 months 
(5-57).
RESULTS: Intraoperative parameters showed no differences concerning the 
individual operating surgeons. General complications arose in 9 (50%) and 
surgical complications in 34 (68%) patients. Anastomotic leakage (5/39), 
perineal wound infection, and bladder dysfunction (requiring catheterization for 
bladder emptying) occurred as frequent complications and there were differences 
with regard to the surgeon. The rate of local recurrence was different and was 
between 0% and 75% for the individual surgeons.
CONCLUSIONS: For the assessment of surgery for rectal carcinoma, only a few 
parameters are necessary. As indicators of quality after rectal resection, the 
rate of anastomotic leakage should be registered; after abdominoperineal 
resection, the rate of perineal wound infection, the ratio of postoperative 
bladder dysfunction, and the locoregional rate of recurrence should be 
registered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-002-0577-3
PMID: 12748793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Am J Med Genet A. 2003 Jun 1;119A(2):218-22. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.10173.

Osseous fragility in Marshall-Smith syndrome.

Diab M(1), Raff M, Gunther DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center, 
N.E., Seattle, Washington 98105, USA. ajmg@hsc.utah.edu

Comment in
    Am J Med Genet A. 2004 Apr 30;126A(3):329-30.

Marshall-Smith syndrome is characterized by accelerated osseous maturation, 
craniofacial anomalies, failure to thrive, psychomotor delay, hypotonia, 
pulmonary dysfunction, and limited life expectancy. We describe a 7-year-old 
girl who, in addition to meeting these criteria for Marshall-Smith syndrome, had 
multiple fractures and skeletal anomalies. The purpose of this report is to draw 
attention to Marshall-Smith syndrome as one of the skeletal dysplasias 
characterized by osseous fragility.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.10173
PMID: 12749068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Epidemiol. 2003 May;13(3):169-75. doi: 10.2188/jea.13.169.

Analysis of sex, age and disease factors contributing to prolonged life 
expectancy at birth, in cases of malignant neoplasms in Japan.

Watanabe T(1), Omori M, Fukuda H, Takada H, Miyao M, Mizuno Y, Ohsawa I, Sato Y, 
Hasegawa T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya University, Japan.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to examine the contribution made by the change in 
mortality from malignant neoplasms to the life expectancy at birth, observed 
during the years 1965-1995 in Japan.
METHODS: We used data on the population and number of deaths by cause, age and 
sex in 1965, 1975, 1985 and 1995. The contribution of different ages and causes 
of death to the change in life expectancy were examined with the method 
developed by Pollard.
RESULTS: We found that, among all causes, the decrease of mortality from stomach 
cancer led to the greatest improvement in life expectancy for both sexes. On the 
other hand, negative contributions were seen with cancers of many sites, such as 
cancer of the intestine, liver and lung for males, and cancer of the intestine, 
gallbladder, lung and breast for females. Recently, the contributing years of 
all cancers have been negative because of the increase in mortality from 
malignant neoplasms. In addition, increase of death from malignant neoplasms in 
middle-aged and elderly people negatively influenced the life expectancy at 
birth.
CONCLUSIONS: Female cancer influenced the improvement in life expectancy at 
birth. Cancer for males, however, contributed little to improvement of life 
expectancy at birth except for a little prolongation of life expectancy at birth 
during the years 1965-1975. To develop a public health policy, the contributing 
years to life expectancy at birth can be a useful indication in evaluating the 
impact of death from various diseases. It is necessary to analyze the 
contribution made by various causes of death to the changes of life expectancy 
at birth.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.13.169
PMCID: PMC9634055
PMID: 12749605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Ophthalmology. 2003 May;110(5):895-9. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00103-9.

Long-term results of noncontact neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet 
cyclophotocoagulation in neovascular glaucoma.

Delgado MF(1), Dickens CJ, Iwach AG, Novack GD, Nychka DS, Wong PC, Nguyen N.

Author information:
(1)Glaucoma Research & Education Group, San Francisco, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term efficacy and safety of noncontact 
transscleral neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) cyclophotocoagulation 
(CP) for the treatment of neovascular glaucoma (NVG).
DESIGN: Retrospective, noncomparative, interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred fifteen eyes of 111 subjects treated from December 
1987 to January 2001.
METHODS: Eyes with uncontrolled NVG underwent noncontact Nd:YAG CP. Treatment 
parameters and pretreatment and posttreatment intraocular pressures (IOP) were 
reviewed. Preoperative and postoperative IOP were compared using a paired 
Student's t test. Success was defined as an IOP </=22 mmHg, with or without 
medications, in the absence of phthisis bulbi, and without having undergone 
further surgical procedures. Results were subjected to a Kaplan-Meier life-table 
analysis.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 27.0 +/- 34.3 months (range, 1-148 months). Mean 
preoperative IOP was 47.4 +/- 11.1 mmHg (range, 26-70 mmHg). Mean postoperative 
IOP was 18.3 +/- 12.2 mmHg (range, 0-44 mmHg). The mean number of treatment 
sessions was 1.4 +/- 0.7 (range, 1-6), with 82 eyes (71.3%) having only one 
treatment. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed a probability of continued 
success at 1 year of 65.0%, at 3 years of 49.8%, and at 6 years of 34.8%. 
Phthisis developed in 8.6% of the eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Noncontact Nd:YAG CP provides long-term IOP reduction in eyes with 
medically uncontrolled NVG. This can be associated with complications that 
include inflammation, visual loss, and hypotony. Repeat treatment may be 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00103-9
PMID: 12750086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Ophthalmology. 2003 May;110(5):962-5. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00077-0.

Survival rates with uveal melanoma in the United States: 1973-1997.

Singh AD(1), Topham A.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine variations in 5-year relative survival rates with primary 
uveal melanoma in the United States over a 25-year period from 1973 to 1997.
DESIGN: Systematic review of existing databases.
PARTICIPANTS: Two thousand four hundred ninety-three patients with primary uveal 
melanoma, International Classification of Oncology [ICDO-2] codes C69.3 [choroid 
melanoma] and C69.4 [ciliary body and iris]) derived from Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program database in the United States from 
1973 to 1997.
METHODS: The patients were stratified according to the treatment (surgery or 
radiotherapy). The relative 5-year survival was calculated for 2054 patients 
diagnosed between 1973 and 1993 by the life table method using US life 
expectancy tables.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The relative 5-year survival rate.
RESULTS: Surgical treatment was performed in 1476 (72%) cases, and radiotherapy 
was given in 300 (15%) cases. The proportion of cases treated by radiotherapy 
increased progressively from 2% to 28% in 20 years. Relative 5-year survival 
rates ranged from 77% to 84% without a statistically significant variation.
CONCLUSIONS: Advances made in the local methods of treatment of primary uveal 
melanoma have not led to an improvement in survival. Systemic approaches to 
management of uveal melanoma are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00077-0
PMID: 12750098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Blood. 2003 Sep 15;102(6):2046-52. doi: 10.1182/blood-2002-12-3722. Epub
2003  May 15.

Treatment of canine cyclic neutropenia by lentivirus-mediated G-CSF delivery.

Yanay O(1), Barry SC, Katen LJ, Brzezinski M, Flint LY, Christensen J, Liggitt 
D, Dale DC, Osborne WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, MS 356320, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 
98195, USA.

Cyclic neutropenia is a rare disease that occurs both in humans and gray collie 
dogs and is characterized by recurrent severe neutropenia leading to bacterial 
infections and shortened life expectancy. Daily injections of recombinant 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rG-CSF) are effective in shortening the 
period of severe neutropenia and reducing infections. After demonstrating that 
rG-CSF induced elevated neutrophil production in an affected dog, cytokine 
administration was stopped and 109 infectious units (IUs) of a lentivirus 
pseudotyped with vesicular stomatitis virus G protein (VSV-G) encoding canine 
G-CSF cDNA was administered intramuscularly. Serial blood cell counts showed 
elevated neutrophil production for longer than 17 months. Although neutrophil 
counts continued to cycle, the range at nadirs was from 3710 to 5300 
cells/microL, well above the nadirs before lentivirus administration. After the 
injection of lentivirus, mean neutrophil counts +/- SD were 12 460 +/- 4240 
cells/microL, significantly increased over both pretreatment values of 3040 +/- 
2540 cells/microL(P <.0001) and neutrophil counts during G-CSF administration of 
10 290 +/- 4860 cells/microL(P <.007). The changes in blood counts from 
lentivirus injection were associated with absence of clinical signs of infection 
and fever. The gray collie continued to gain weight and was no longer housed in 
a pathogen-free environment. Genomic DNA from muscle at injection sites was 
positive for provirus, whereas gonad, lung, spleen, heart, liver, kidney, 
leukocytes, and noninjected muscle samples were all negative for provirus. Thus, 
intramuscular administration of lentivirus encoding G-CSF provided sustained 
therapeutic levels of neutrophils, suggesting this approach may be applied for 
long-term treatment of patients with cyclic and other neutropenias.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2002-12-3722
PMID: 12750178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2003 Sep;306(3):973-9. doi: 10.1124/jpet.103.051342.
Epub  2003 May 15.

L-selegiline potentiates the cellular poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation response to 
ionizing radiation.

Brabeck C(1), Pfeiffer R, Leake A, Beneke S, Meyer R, Burkle A.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Tumorvirologie, Deutsches Krebforschungszentrum, Heidelberg, 
Germany.

DNA strand breaks induced by alkylating agents, oxidants, or ionizing radiation 
trigger the covalent modification of nuclear proteins with poly(ADP-ribose), 
which is catalyzed for the most part by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 and plays 
a role in DNA base-excision repair. Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation capacity of 
mononuclear blood cells correlates positively with life span of mammalian 
species. Here, we show that l-selegiline, an anti-Parkinson drug with 
neuroprotective activity and life span-extending effect in laboratory animals, 
can potentiate gamma-radiation-induced poly(ADP-ribose) formation in intact 
cells. COR4 hamster cells were incubated with l-selegiline (50 nM) for various 
time periods, followed by gamma-irradiation (45 Gy). Quantification of cellular 
poly(ADP-ribose) levels at 10 min after starting the irradiation revealed 
significant increases (up to 1.8-fold) in cells preincubated with the drug for 8 
h to 7 days compared with drug-free irradiated controls. There was no 
selegiline-induced change in poly(ADP-ribose) levels of unirradiated cells nor 
in basal or radiation-induced DNA strand breaks, respectively. Surprisingly, 
poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 protein was down-regulated by l-selegiline 
treatment. Addition of l-selegiline to purified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 
did not alter enzymatic activity. In conclusion, the results of the present 
study identify a novel intervention to potentiate the cellular 
poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation response. We hypothesize that the effect of l-selegiline 
is due to modulation of accessory proteins regulating poly(ADP-ribose) 
polymerase-1 activity and that increased cellular poly- (ADP-ribosyl)ation 
capacity may contribute to the neuroprotective potential and/or life span 
extension afforded by l-selegiline.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.103.051342
PMID: 12750436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Stroke. 2003 Jun;34(6):1457-63. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000072985.24967.7F.
Epub  2003 May 15.

Cause of stroke recurrence is multifactorial: patterns, risk factors, and 
outcomes of stroke recurrence in the South London Stroke Register.

Hillen T(1), Coshall C, Tilling K, Rudd AG, McGovern R, Wolfe CD; South London 
Stroke Register.

Author information:
(1)Division of Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, Guy's, King's and St. 
Thomas' School of Medicine, King's College, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This article examines stroke recurrence and whether the 
subtype of the initial stroke influences the risk and subtypes of further 
strokes. The proportion of recurrences attributable to conventional risk factors 
is quantified.
METHODS: From January 1995 to August 2000, all first-in-a-lifetime strokes 
(n=1626) were identified and prospectively followed up in a defined multiethnic 
inner city population of 234 533. Twelve overlapping referral sources and 
face-to-face follow-up at 3 months and 1 and 3 years were used to attain 
complete registration of stroke recurrence. Index and recurrent stroke were 
classified according to the Oxford Community Stroke Project classification.
RESULTS: In 2744 person-years of follow-up, 153 recurrences were observed. At 5 
years, the cumulative risk of first stroke recurrence was 16.6% (95% CI, 13.5 to 
20.4), and the combined risk of death or stroke recurrence was 65.3% (95% CI, 
61.9 to 68.6). Ethnicity and subtype of index stroke were not associated with 
stroke recurrence. A change in subtype between index and recurrent stroke 
occurred in 45.5% (95% CI, 35.8 to 55.2) of cases and was most frequent among 
index lacunar strokes and primary intracerebral hemorrhages. In multivariable 
analyses, diabetes mellitus and atrial fibrillation were associated with both 
stroke recurrence and recurrence-free survival. In the stroke population, 9.1% 
(95% CI, -2.0 to 20.2) of recurrences were attributable to diabetes and 4.9% 
(95% CI, -7.3 to 17.2) to atrial fibrillation during the first year after the 
index stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: The cause of stroke recurrence is multifactorial, and the subtypes 
of index and recurrent strokes are often not identical. Most recurrences remain 
unexplained by conventional risk factors.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000072985.24967.7F
PMID: 12750544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Mal Vasc. 2003 Apr;28(2):73-8.

[Retrospective study of the one-year patency of a cuffed polytetrafluoroethylene 
Venaflo-type graft placed for venous hemodialysis access].

[Article in French]

Bérard X(1), Baste JC, Sassoust G, Du Bourguet L, Combe C, De Précigout V, Midy 
D.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire et Générale, Hôpital Pellegrin, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire de Bordeaux, Place Amélie Raba Léon, 33076 Bordeaux 
Cedex.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to determine retrospectively the one 
year patency of a new polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft with a cuff at the 
graft-vein anastomosis (Venaflo, Bard industries) placed for hemodialysis 
access.
METHODS: From April first 1999 to December thirty first 2001, 37 consecutive 
patients (56.8 medium age) underwent 39 Venaflo graft for hemodialysis in 
Vascular Surgery Section from Bordeaux University Hospital. All medical files 
have been reviewed at the end of the first year following the operation, by 
consultation or phone call from the referent nephrologist. Six patients deceased 
with a functional graft before the end of the study. The patency outcomes were 
calculated with Kaplan Meier life table method.
RESULTS: The one year primary patency is 60.03% with a 95% confident interval 
[43%; 77%] and secondary patency is 83.73% [70%; 96%].
CONCLUSION: The patency of cuffed ePTFE grafts for hemodialysis was satisfactory 
in comparison with the result of classic ePTFE grafts in the medical literacy. A 
large prospective multicentric medium term study would be necessary in order to 
confirm or not these results.

PMID: 12750637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Diabetologia. 2003 May;46(5):712-20. doi: 10.1007/s00125-003-1082-z. Epub
2003  May 16.

IDDM2/insulin VNTR modifies risk conferred by IDDM1/HLA for development of Type 
1 diabetes and associated autoimmunity.

Walter M(1), Albert E, Conrad M, Keller E, Hummel M, Ferber K, Barratt BJ, Todd 
JA, Ziegler AG, Bonifacio E.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute, Munich-Schwabing Hospital, Kölner Platz 1, 80804 
Munich, Germany.

AIM/HYPOTHESIS: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease with multiple 
susceptibility genes. The aim of this study was to determine whether combining 
IDDM1/HLA and IDDM2/ insulin( INS) 5' variable number of tandem repeat locus 
(VNTR) genotypes improves T1D risk assessment.
METHODS: Patients with T1D (n=488), control subjects (n=846), and offspring of 
parents with T1D (n=1122) were IDDM1 and IDDM2 genotyped. Offspring were 
followed for islet autoantibodies and T1D from birth until the age of 2 to 12 
years.
RESULTS: Compared to the I/I INS VNTR genotype, the I/III and III/III genotypes 
reduced T1D risk conferred by IDDM1/HLA in all HLA genotype categories of the 
case-control cohort by 1.6-fold to three-fold. The highest T1D risk was 
associated with INS VNTR class I/I plus HLA DR3/DR4-DQ8 (20.4% in patients, 0.6% 
in control subjects) or HLA DR4-DQ8/DR4-DQ8 (6.3% in patients, 0.2% in control 
subjects). In the offspring, HLA DR3/DR4-DQ8 and DR4-DQ8/DR4-DQ8 conferred 
increased risk for early development of islet autoantibodies (14.6% and 12.9% by 
age 2 years). Offspring with these high risk IDDM1 genotypes plus the INS VNTR 
class I/I genotype (n=71; 6.3%) had the highest risk of developing islet 
autoantibodies (21.8% by age 2 years vs 8.9% in offspring with high risk IDDM1 
plus INS VNTR class I/III or III/III genotypes, p<0.05) and T1D (8.5% by age 6 
years vs 4.3%). Offspring who developed autoantibodies to multiple antigens had 
increased frequencies of both high risk IDDM1 and IDDM2 genotypes (p<0.0001), 
whereas offspring who developed autoantibodies to GAD only had increased 
frequencies of high risk IDDM1 and protective IDDM2 genotypes, suggesting that 
IDDM2 influences the autoimmune target specificity.
CONCLUSION/INTERPRETATION: Combining IDDM1 and IDDM2 genotyping identifies a 
minority of children with an increased T1D risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-003-1082-z
PMID: 12750767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(8):573-85. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200321080-00004.

The cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitors as first-line antihypertensive therapy.

Nordmann AJ(1), Krahn M, Logan AG, Naglie G, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)The Programme in Clinical Epidemiology and Health Care Research, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. nordmanna@uhbs.ch

BACKGROUND: Current hypertension guidelines differ in their recommendations for 
first-line antihypertensive therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of ACE inhibitor therapy as 
antihypertensive first-line therapy as compared with conventional 
antihypertensive therapy with beta-adrenoceptor antagonists or diuretics.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis based on data from randomised trials 
and observational studies comparing the effectiveness of ACE inhibitor and 
conventional antihypertensive therapy, we constructed a Markov model to compare 
four strategies in the management of uncomplicated hypertension: (i) prescribing 
ACE inhibitor therapy to all patients; (ii) prescribing conventional therapy to 
all patients; (iii) individualised antihypertensive therapy based on the 
presence or absence of left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography 
(ECG); or (iv) individualised antihypertensive therapy based on the presence or 
absence of left ventricular hypertrophy on echocardiography.
METHODS: Cost data were derived from the medical literature and focus groups, 
and utility values were derived from patients on antihypertensive monotherapy. 
All costs were calculated in 1999 Canadian dollars, but are reported in US 
dollars according to the 1999 purchasing power parity rate for medical and 
healthcare. The effectiveness of ACE inhibitor therapy in the presence of left 
ventricular hypertrophy was derived from observational studies. The time horizon 
was over a lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Third-party payer.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: A cohort of men aged 40 years without cardiovascular 
comorbidity requiring antihypertensive drug therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: In the baseline analysis, all four strategies 
resulted in expected discounted QALYs that differed from each other only at the 
third decimal point (i.e. less than 0.003). Given the uncertainties in the 
variable estimates and the small size of the differences, these differences are 
extremely small and unlikely to represent real differences. Even accepting the 
small gains as real, the resulting cost-effectiveness ratios are unattractively 
high: $US 200,000 per QALY gained for the echocardiography strategy (compared 
with ECG), and $US 700,000 for the "ACE inhibitor for all" strategy (compared 
with ECG). The incremental cost effectiveness of prescribing ACE inhibitor 
therapy to everybody was never less than $US 100,000/QALY in the sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Prescribing ACE inhibitors as antihypertensive first-line therapy 
in patients without cardiovascular morbidity cannot be recommended at the 
present time unless the acquisition costs of ACE inhibitors become substantially 
more attractive.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321080-00004
PMID: 12751915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Addiction. 2003 May;98(5):601-10. doi: 10.1046/j.1360-0443.2003.00331.x.

Socioeconomic status and drinking patterns in young adults.

Casswell S(1), Pledger M, Hooper R.

Author information:
(1)Alcohol and Public Health Research Unit, University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand. s.casswell@massey.ac.nz

Comment in
    Addiction. 2003 May;98(5):559-60.

AIMS: To investigate the relationship between several indicators of 
socioeconomic status and drinking patterns in young adulthood.
DESIGN: Data collected in a longitudinal study of young adults was analysed 
using repeated-measures models to examine the relationship between income, 
occupational activity and educational achievement and patterns of drinking.
SETTING: These data were collected as part of a longitudinal study ofa birth 
cohort of New Zealanders. They were interviewed for the most part in a central 
location using a face-to-face method and a computer-assisted alcohol interview.
PARTICIPANTS: The participants were members of the Dunedin Multidisciplinary 
Health and Development study aged 18, 21 and 26 years. Nine hundred and 
sixty-nine study members contributed to the analysis. Study members have been 
found to be broadly representative of the New Zealand population and cross 
national studies suggest findings are generalizable to other similar market 
economies.
MEASUREMENTS: Three indicators of socioeconomic status were used; educational 
achievement, occupational activity and income. The educational achievement 
indicator at age 18 had three levels that ranged from no school qualifications 
to higher school qualifications. For age 21 two additional categories of 
tertiary educational achievement were included to make five categories and for 
age 26 higher tertiary degrees were included in the measure to make six 
categories. Five categories of occupational activity were used. Income data was 
also used. Two measures of alcohol consumption were used. These were the 
frequency of drinking and the typical quantity of alcohol consumed per drinking 
occasion in the past year.
FINDINGS: Frequency of drinking increased over these early adult years and the 
quantities consumed peaked at age 21 and decreased thereafter for both males and 
females. Frequency of drinking was influenced by income with the higher income 
respondents drinking more often and this was persistent overtime. Quantity of 
drinking was most influenced by educational achievement. The less well-educated 
young adult drank significantly more during a drinking occasion and at all ages. 
There was also a relationship between educational achievement and frequency of 
drinking for males at age 18 and a relationship between women's occupational 
activity and the quantities they consumed.
CONCLUSIONS: The finding that the dimensions of drinking operate differently 
explains the lack of consistency in previous research, which has investigated 
socioeconomic status and the volumes of alcohol consumed. The findings of higher 
quantities consumed among those of lower social status may explain some of the 
reduced life expectancy found among those with lower socioeconomic status.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1360-0443.2003.00331.x
PMID: 12751977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Am J Transplant. 2003 May;3(5):619-25. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-6143.2003.00118.x.

Screening for prostate, breast and colorectal cancer in renal transplant 
recipients.

Kiberd BA(1), Keough-Ryan T, Clase CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
bkiberd@is.dal.ca

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2003 May;3(5):514-5.

American Society of Transplantation guidelines recommend screening renal 
transplant recipients for breast, colorectal and prostate cancer. However there 
is a lack of evidence to support this practice. Computer simulation modeling was 
used to estimate the years of life lost as a result of these cancers in 
50-year-old renal transplant recipients and subjects in the general population. 
Renal transplant recipients lost fewer years of life to cancer than people in 
the general population largely because of reduced life expectancy. In 
nondiabetic transplant recipients, loss of life as a result of these cancers was 
comparable with that in the general population only under assumptions of 
increased cancer incidence and cancer-specific mortality risks. Even with 
two-fold higher cancer incidence and disease-specific mortality risks, diabetic 
transplant recipients lost considerably fewer life years to cancer than those in 
the general population. Recommended cancer screening for the general population 
may not yield the expected benefits in the average renal transplant recipient 
but the benefits will be considerably higher than for patients on dialysis. 
Transplanted patients at above-average cancer risk in good health may achieve 
the benefits of screening that are seen in the general population.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-6143.2003.00118.x
PMID: 12752319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Eur J Neurol. 2003 May;10(3):287-93. doi: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.2003.00583.x.

Expectations of wheelchair-dependency in recently diagnosed patients with 
multiple sclerosis and their partners.

Janssens AC(1), de Boer JB, van Doorn PA, van ver Ploeg HM, van ver Meché FG, 
Passchier J, Hintzen RQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

The aim of the present paper was to quantify expectations of 
wheelchair-dependency in patients recently diagnosed with MS (n = 101) and their 
partners (n = 78). Expectations focused on the risk and seriousness of becoming 
wheelchair-dependent in 2 years, 10 years or lifetime. Expectations were 
compared with natural history data, compared between patients and their 
partners, and related to clinical characteristics. Our results show that 
patients overestimated their 2-year and 10-year risks of wheelchair-dependency, 
but underestimated their lifetime risks. A large number of patients were 
uncertain about their 2-year risk, even those with no or only minimal disability 
[Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) <3.0]. One-third of the patients 
perceived the 10-year and lifetime risk to be 50%, which, as they explained in 
the interviews, reflected their uncertainty: they did not know what to expect - 
it might happen or not. Patients with more functional limitations had higher 
perceptions of risk, but lower perceptions of seriousness. Concordance in 
perceived risk and seriousness between patients and partners was moderate. The 
overestimation of the short-term risks and the substantial differences in 
expectations within couples warrant further research on the impact of 
expectations on their treatment decisions and psychological well-being.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.2003.00583.x
PMID: 12752403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Kidney Int. 2003 Jun;63(6):2134-43. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00032.x.

Cell senescence in rat kidneys in vivo increases with growth and age despite 
lack of telomere shortening.

Melk A(1), Kittikowit W, Sandhu I, Halloran KM, Grimm P, Schmidt BM, Halloran 
PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology and Immunology, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. anettemelk@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Somatic cells in vitro have a finite life expectancy before entering 
a state of senescence, but it is unclear whether this state occurs in vivo in 
kidney development, growth, and aging. We previously showed that human kidney 
cortex displays telomere shortening with age. In this study, we compared the 
structural and functional changes in rat kidney with age to phenomena associated 
with cellular senescence in vitro.
METHODS: We assessed the changes in Fischer 344 rat kidneys from age 1 to 9 
months to define growth and development and from age 9 to 24 months to define 
aging.
RESULTS: Rat kidney telomeres were approximately 35 to 40 kb long and did not 
shorten significantly. Expression of mRNA for p16INK4a, a characteristic 
senescence gene in vitro, was undetectable in most young rats but rose 27 fold 
during growth and a further 72-fold during aging. p16INK4a protein was localized 
to the nucleus and increased with age. p16INK4a mRNA also increased in other 
tissues. Lipofuscin and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase increased in 
epithelium with growth and aging and their occurrence was significantly 
associated with each other. Lipofuscin was particularly found in atrophic 
nephrons.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that cell senescence occurs in both growth and aging in 
rat kidney and may contribute to the age-related pathology. These changes are 
not due to telomere shortening, but may reflect cumulative environmental stress.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00032.x
PMID: 12753300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Paediatr Anaesth. 2003 May;13(4):345-8. doi:
10.1046/j.1460-9592.2003.01046.x.

Complete staged palliation of hypoplastic left heart syndrome in a child with 
cystic fibrosis.

Stuth EA(1), Stucke AG, Fedderly RT, Tweddell JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Section of Pediatric Anesthesia, Children's 
Hospital of Wisconsin and Department of Anesthesiology, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA. estuth@mcw.edu

In recent years, the palliative treatment of Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome 
(HLHS) with a three-staged surgical repair has gained widespread acceptance in 
North America and elsewhere and has significantly improved the life-expectancy 
of these children. We report on a child in whom the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis 
(CF) was made shortly after the first-stage palliation (modified Norwood 
procedure), and in which surgical palliation was successfully completed with 
second- (bidirectional Glenn) and third-stage (fenestrated Fontan) procedures. 
During this period, the child suffered several CF-related complications, i.e. 
repeated respiratory failure, meconium ileus and coagulation abnormalities, 
which required adjustment of the anaesthesia, surgical and intensive care 
management. Considering the trend to perform surgical corrections of major 
cardiac defects in the early neonatal period, before concomitant genetic 
diseases are discovered, paediatric cardiac anaesthesiologists, surgeons and 
intensivists may be confronted with more cases of open heart surgery in infants 
with CF in the future.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9592.2003.01046.x
PMID: 12753450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Scand J Caring Sci. 2003 Jun;17(2):113-21. doi: 
10.1046/j.1471-6712.2003.00220.x.

Vulnerability of family caregivers in terminal palliative care at home; 
balancing between burden and capacity.

Proot IM(1), Abu-Saad HH, Crebolder HF, Goldsteen M, Luker KA, Widdershoven GA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Research, Maastricht University (UM), Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. i.proot@ige.unimaas.nl

This paper reports on a grounded theory interview-based study with 13 family 
members aged 28-80 years caring for terminally ill people at home (with a life 
expectancy of 3 months or less) in the Netherlands. The project was approved by 
the ethics committee of the Maastricht University Hospital. The aim of this 
study was to explore the experiences of family caregivers, their needs for home 
care, and which health services they receive. Data were analysed using the 
constant comparative method. 'Vulnerability' was identified as the core 
category. Caring for a terminally ill person at home requires continuous 
balancing between care burden and capacity to cope. Whether or not the carer 
will succeed in keeping in optimum balance is dependent on a number of factors 
impinging on the caregiver's vulnerability. Care burden, restricted activities, 
fear, insecurity, loneliness, facing death, lack of emotional, practical and 
information-related support were identified from the data as factors having the 
potential to increase the caregiver's vulnerability, and may be risk factors for 
fatigue and burnout. Continuing previous activities, hope, keeping control, 
satisfaction and good support are factors which may decrease the caregiver's 
vulnerability, and may protect against fatigue and burnout. The experiences of 
the caregivers in our study showed that the support from informal and 
professional caregivers was not sufficient. Education and practical tools may 
make professionals more sensitive for the vulnerable position of family 
caregivers, even when these caregivers do not show their vulnerability.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-6712.2003.00220.x
PMID: 12753511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Semin Dial. 2003 May-Jun;16(3):272-5. doi: 10.1046/j.1525-139x.2003.16052.x.

Pharmacomechanical thrombolysis of natural vein fistulas: reduced dose of TPA 
and long-term follow-up.

Schon D(1), Mishler R.

Author information:
(1)AKDHC Ambulatory Surgery Center, Phoenix Arizona 85012, USA. 
schoncath@cox.net

Twenty-five episodes of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis of 20 clotted 
arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) are reported. The technique presented utilizes the 
local instillation of tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) in small doses together 
with manual maceration to dissolve clot and balloon angioplasty to correct the 
underlying stenoses. Since the minimum dose of TPA necessary to successfully 
perform thrombolysis of a natural vein fistula had never been determined, an 
attempt to use as minimal a dose of TPA as possible was made. Five procedures 
were performed in fistulas which had previously undergone a thrombolysis 
procedure with TPA. The procedures were successful in 92% of cases with an 
average dose of TPA required of 2.3 +/- 0.32 mg/procedure. In addition to the 20 
accesses in this article, we offer follow-up life table data on 15 fistulas that 
were previously reported for a total of 35 accesses salvaged with 
pharmacomechanical thrombolysis. Primary patency was 11.2 months and secondary 
patency was 25 months. Fifty-five percent of fistulas required repeat 
angioplasty procedures at an average of 3.6-month intervals. In addition, more 
than half of the fistulas that presented with clotting required repeat 
interventions for continued patency. This report demonstrates the effectiveness 
of small doses of TPA in successful pharmacomechanical thrombolysis of clotted 
fistulas.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-139x.2003.16052.x
PMID: 12753691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Am J Med. 2003 May;114(7):546-54. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00095-0.

Potential effect of cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors on the prevention of 
colorectal cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ladabaum U(1), Scheiman JM, Fendrick AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco 94143-0538, USA. ladabau@itsa.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: To estimate the potential cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer 
chemoprevention with cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors (COX-2 inhibitors).
METHODS: Using a decision analytic Markov model, we estimated the discounted 
cost per life-year saved for three strategies: a COX-2 inhibitor alone; as an 
adjunct to colonoscopy every 10 years in persons at average risk of colorectal 
cancer; and as an adjunct to colonoscopy every 5 years in persons with 
first-degree relatives who had colorectal cancer.
RESULTS: In the base case, the incremental cost per life-year saved with a COX-2 
inhibitor alone compared with no screening was 233,300 dollars in persons at 
average risk of colorectal cancer and 56,700 dollars in persons with 2 
first-degree relatives who had the disease. Chemoprevention was both less 
effective and more costly than screening. The incremental cost per life-year 
saved with a COX-2 inhibitor as an adjunct to screening was 823,800 dollars in 
persons at average risk and 404,700 dollars in persons with 2 first-degree 
relatives who had colorectal cancer. Combining a COX-2 inhibitor with less 
frequent screening was not as cost-effective as screening at currently 
recommended intervals. Cost-effectiveness estimates were highly sensitive to the 
cost of COX-2 inhibitors and their effect on the risk of cancer.
CONCLUSION: Chemoprevention of colorectal cancer with COX-2 inhibitors is likely 
to incur substantially higher costs per life-year saved than are currently 
recommended screening strategies. COX-2 inhibitor use as an adjunct to screening 
may increase life expectancy, although at prohibitive costs, and is unlikely to 
result in less frequent screening.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00095-0
PMID: 12753878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2003 May;23(5):688-95; discussion 695. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(03)00085-x.

Choice of a mechanical valve or a bioprosthesis for AVR: does CABG matter?

Puvimanasinghe JP(1), Takkenberg JJ, Eijkemans MJ, Steyerberg EW, van Herwerden 
LA, Grunkemeier GL, Habbema JD, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. j.p.a.puvimanasinghe@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Mechanical valves and bioprostheses are the commonly used devices in 
aortic valve replacement (AVR). Many patients with valvular disease also require 
concomitant coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We used a microsimulation 
model to provide insight into the outcomes of patients after AVR with mechanical 
valves and stented bioprostheses, with and without CABG, and to determine the 
age-thresholds or age crossover points in outcomes between the two valve types.
METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of published results after primary AVR 
with mechanical prostheses (nine reports, 4274 patients, 25,726 patient-years) 
and stented porcine bioprostheses (13 reports, 9007 patients, 54,151 
patient-years) to estimate risks of valve-related events. A hazard ratio of 1.3 
was used to incorporate the effect of CABG on long-term survival. Estimates were 
entered into a microsimulation model, which was then used to predict the 
outcomes of patients after AVR, with and without CABG. The model calculations 
were validated using a large data set from Portland, USA.
RESULTS: For a 65-year-old male without CABG, the life expectancy (LE) was 11.2 
and 11.6 years and the event-free life expectancy (EFLE) was 8.2 and 8.9 years, 
respectively, after implantation with mechanical valves and bioprostheses. The 
lifetime risk of at least one valve-related event was 51 and 47%, respectively. 
The age crossover point between the two valve types, considering the above 
outcome parameters, was 59, 60 and 63 years, respectively. CABG reduced LE and 
consequently EFLE and lifetime risk of an event, but only minimally influenced 
the patient age crossover points. The model calculations showed good agreement 
with the Portland data.
CONCLUSIONS: The currently recommended patient age for using a bioprosthesis (65 
years) could be lowered further, irrespective of concomitant CABG. The trade-off 
between the reduced risks of bioprosthetic failure and of hemorrhage in 
mechanical valves, resulting from a lower LE, minimized the effect of CABG on 
the age crossover points between the two valve types.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(03)00085-x
PMID: 12754019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2003 Apr;52(2):62-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-3928(03)00041-6.

[Physiopathology and etiology of mitral insufficiency].

[Article in French]

Goissen T(1), Beguin M, Tribouilloy C.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie B, CHU Amiens Sud, 80054 Amiens, France.

Mitral regurgitation has a complex pathophysiology. It should be assessed from 
the study of factors influencing regurgitant volume and the evaluation of 
hemodynamics effects downstream (impact on left ventricular function) and 
upstream (level of left atrial compliance and pulmonary pressure). The 
regurgitant volume is larger when the regurgitation time is longer, the 
regurgitant orifice is bigger and the magnitude of the left ventrico-atrial 
systolic gradient higher. The study of left ventricular function is difficult, 
especially in chronic mitral regurgitation where the apparently normal left 
ventricular systolic function can hide a significant worsening in myocardiacs 
fibres contractile abilities. With the increase in life expectancy and with the 
decrease in the incidence of rheumatic fever, aetiologies of mitral 
regurgitation have changed in the past 30 years. They are now dominated by 
dystrophic mitral regurgitation and infective endocarditis while rheumatic fever 
becomes less frequent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-3928(03)00041-6
PMID: 12754962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nihon Rinsho. 2003 May;61(5):739-44.

[Alterations in sympathoadrenal system in congestive heart failure].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshikawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiopulmonary Division, Department of Medicine, Keio University School of 
Medicine.

Although sympathoadrenal system has a pivotal role in maintaining homeostasis 
during stress, protracted activation adversely affects life expectancy in 
patients with heart failure. Detrimental effects of sympathoadrenal activation 
over time have been confirmed using transgenic mice overexpressing beta 
1-adrenergic receptors, which showed that initial hypercontractility led to 
cardiac hypertrophy with failure, resulting in premature death. Mechanisms 
underlying such adverse effects involve multiple biological events including 
production of oxygen free radicals, cytokines, matrix metalloproteinase, 
apoptosis, cardiac hypertrophy, and chamber remodeling as well as energy 
expenditure. Desensitization phenomenon of the beta-adrenergic receptors is one 
of the predominant features characterizing congestive heart failure. 
Down-regulation of the receptors, increases in inhibitory guanine-nucleotide(G) 
protein and G-protein-coupled receptor kinases are responsible for the 
phenomenon.

PMID: 12754996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Epidemiol Bull. 2002 Dec;23(4):1-2.

From basic data to composite indices: a re-examination of mortality analysis.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12755082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Epidemiol Bull. 2002 Dec;23(4):7-11.

Development of the Healthy Condition Index using geographic information systems 
