in health.

Castillo-Salgado C(1), Loyola E.

Author information:
(1)PAHO's Special Program for Health Analysis (SHA).

PMID: 12755084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Ann Intern Med. 2003 May 20;138(10):795-806. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-10-200305200-00007.

The cost-effectiveness of cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitors in the 
management of chronic arthritis.

Spiegel BM(1), Targownik L, Dulai GS, Gralnek IM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Administration Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at University of California, CURE Digestive Diseases Research 
Center, Los Angeles, CA 90073, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2003 Sep-Oct;139(2):53.
    Ann Intern Med. 2004 May 4;140(9):761; author reply 761-2.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 May 20;138(10):I39.

BACKGROUND: Rofecoxib and celecoxib (coxibs) effectively treat chronic arthritis 
pain and reduce ulcer complications by 50% compared with nonselective 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). However, their absolute risk 
reduction is small and the cost-effectiveness of treatment is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the degree of risk reduction in gastrointestinal 
complications by coxibs offsets their increased cost compared with a generic 
nonselective NSAID.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic review of MEDLINE and published abstracts.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis who are 
not taking aspirin and who require long-term NSAID therapy for moderate to 
severe arthritis pain.
PERSPECTIVE: Third-party payer.
INTERVENTIONS: Naproxen, 500 mg twice daily, and coxib, once daily. Patients 
intolerant of naproxen were switched to a coxib.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Using a coxib instead of a nonselective NSAID in 
average-risk patients cost an incremental 275 809 dollars per year to gain 1 
additional QALY.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The incremental cost per QALY gained decreased 
to 55 803 dollars when the analysis was limited to the subset of patients with a 
history of bleeding ulcers. The coxib strategy became dominant when the cost of 
coxibs was reduced by 90% of the current average wholesale price. In 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, if a third-party payer was willing to pay 
150 000 dollars per QALY gained, then 4.3% of average-risk patients would fall 
within the budget.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk reduction seen with coxibs does not offset their increased 
costs compared with nonselective NSAIDs in the management of average-risk 
patients with chronic arthritis. However, coxibs may provide an acceptable 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in the subgroup of patients with a history 
of bleeding ulcers.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-10-200305200-00007
PMID: 12755551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Ann Intern Med. 2003 May 20;138(10):I39. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-138-10-200305200-00003.

Summaries for patients. The cost-effectiveness of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors 
for treating chronic arthritis.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 May 20;138(10):795-806.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-138-10-200305200-00003
PMID: 12755582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2003 Jun;14(3):329-39. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.000.00934.x.

Long-term implant prognosis in patients with and without a history of chronic 
periodontitis: a 10-year prospective cohort study of the ITI Dental Implant 
System.

Karoussis IK(1), Salvi GE, Heitz-Mayfield LJ, Brägger U, Hämmerle CH, Lang NP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Fixed Prosthodontics, University of Berne, 
School of Dental Medicine, Berne, Switzerland.

AIM: The aim of this 10-year study was to compare the failure, success and 
complication rates between patients having lost their teeth due to periodontitis 
or other reasons.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Fifty-three patients who received 112 hollow screw 
implants (HS) of the ITI Dental Implant System were divided into two groups: 
group A - eight patients with 21 implants having lost their teeth due to chronic 
periodontitis; group B - forty five patients with 91 implants without a history 
of periodontitis. One and 10 years after surgical placement, clinical and 
radiographic parameters were assessed. The incidences of peri-implantitis were 
noticed over the 10 years of regular supportive periodontal therapy.
RESULTS: Success criteria at 10 years were set at: pocket probing depth (PPD) 
<or=5 mm, bleeding on probing (BoP-, bone loss <0.2 mm annually. The survival 
rate for the group with a past history of chronic periodontitis (group A) was 
90.5%, while for the group with no past history of periodontitis (group B) it 
was 96.5%. Group A had a significantly higher incidence of peri-implantitis than 
group B (28.6% vs. 5.8%). With the success criteria set, 52.4% in group A and 
79.1% of the implants in group B were successful. With a threshold set at PPD 
<or=6 mm, BoP- and bone loss <0.2 mm annually, the success rates were elevated 
to 62% and 81.3% for groups A and B, respectively. Relying purely on clinical 
parameters of PPD <or=5 mm and BoP-, the success rates were at 71.4% and 94.5%, 
and with a threshold set at PPD <or=6 mm and BoP-, these proportions were 
elevated to 81% and 96.7% for groups A and B, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with implants replacing teeth lost due to chronic 
periodontitis demonstrated lower survival rates and more biological 
complications than patients with implants replacing teeth lost due to reasons 
other than periodontitis during a 10-year maintenance period. Furthermore, 
setting of thresholds for success criteria is crucial to the reporting of 
success rates.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.000.00934.x
PMID: 12755783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Vasc Surg. 2003 May;37(5):1106-17. doi: 10.1067/mva.2003.363.

Guidelines for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Report of a 
subcommittee of the Joint Council of the American Association for Vascular 
Surgery and Society for Vascular Surgery.

Brewster DC(1), Cronenwett JL, Hallett JW Jr, Johnston KW, Krupski WC, Matsumura 
JS; Joint Council of the American Association for Vascular Surgery and Society 
for Vascular Surgery.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA. dcbrewster@partners.org

Decision-making in regard to elective repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) 
requires careful assessment of factors that influence rupture risk, operative 
mortality, and life expectancy. Individualized consideration of these factors in 
each patient is essential, and the role of patient preference is of increasing 
importance. It is not possible or appropriate to recommend a single threshold 
diameter for intervention which can be generalized to all patients. Based upon 
the best available current evidence, 5.5 cm is the best threshold for repair in 
an "average" patient. However, subsets of younger, good-risk patients or 
aneurysms at higher rupture risk may be identified in whom repair at smaller 
sizes is justified. Conversely, delay in repair until larger diameter may be 
best for older, higher-risk patients, especially if endovascular repair is not 
possible. Intervention at diameter <5.5 cm appears indicated in women with AAA. 
If a patient has suitable anatomy, endovascular repair may be considered, and it 
is most advantageous for older, higher-risk patients or patients with a hostile 
abdomen or other technical factors that may complicate standard open repair. 
With endovascular repair, perioperative morbidity and recovery time are clearly 
reduced; however, there is a higher reintervention rate, increased surveillance 
burden, and a small but ongoing risk of AAA rupture. There is no justification 
at present for different indications for endovascular repair, such as earlier 
treatment of smaller AAA. Until long-term outcome of endoluminal repair is 
better defined and results of randomized trials available, the choice between 
endovascular and open repair will continue to rely heavily on patient 
preference.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2003.363
PMID: 12756363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Aff (Millwood). 2003 May-Jun;22(3):42-5. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.22.3.42.

The efficient use of pharmaceuticals: does Europe have any lessons for a 
Medicare drug benefit?

Towse A(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2003 May-Jun;22(3):16-30.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2003 May-Jun;22(3):31-41.

Managing drug use in a way that maximizes the value obtained from total health 
care spending faces obstacles; hence, payers and policymakers tend to look at 
pharmaceutical expenditures in isolation from the rest of health care spending. 
Currently there are both regulatory and putative market-based approaches to 
containing pharmaceutical spending worldwide. But evidence suggests that 
regulatory efforts in Europe and elsewhere have not proved effective in 
containing costs or improving efficiency or access, and supposedly market-based 
solutions now in vogue, such as reference pricing, pose their own set of 
challenges and may in practice violate market principles. In the end, silo-based 
budgeting is short-sighted; the emphasis in Europe and in the United States 
should be on measures that achieve efficient health care rather than the 
containment of drug spending.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.22.3.42
PMID: 12757270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Jun;51(6):789-97. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.51252.x.

Decisions for hospice care in patients with advanced cancer.

Chen H(1), Haley WE, Robinson BE, Schonwetter RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, University of South Florida College of Medicine, 
Tampa, Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To identify factors that may influence the decision of whether to 
enter a hospice program or to continue with a traditional hospital approach in 
patients with advanced cancer and to understand their decision-making process.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional structured interview.
SETTING: One community-based hospice and three university-based teaching 
hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred thirty-four adult patients diagnosed with advanced 
lung, breast, prostate, or colon cancer with a life expectancy of less than 1 
year: 173 hospice patients and 61 nonhospice patients receiving traditional 
hospital care.
MEASUREMENTS: Hospice and nonhospice patients' demographic, clinical, and other 
patient-related characteristics were compared. Multivariate analysis was then 
conducted to identify variables associated with the hospice care decision in a 
logistic regression model. Information sources regarding hospice care and people 
involved in the hospice decision were identified.
RESULTS: Patients receiving hospice care were significantly older (average age 
69 vs 65 years, P =.009) and less educated (average 11.9 vs 12.9 years, P =.031) 
and had more people in their households (average 1.66 vs 1.16 persons, P =.019). 
Hospice patients had more comorbid conditions (1.30 vs 0.93, P =.035) and worse 
activities of daily living scores (7.01 vs 6.23, P =.030) than nonhospice 
patients. Hospice patients were more realistic about their disease course than 
their nonhospice counterparts. Patients' understanding of their prognoses 
affected their perceptions of the course of their disease. Hospice patients 
preferred quality of life to length of life. In the multivariate analysis, lower 
education level and greater number of people in the household were associated 
with the decision to enter hospice. A healthcare provider first told most of 
those who entered hospice about hospice. Families largely made the final 
decision to enter hospice (42%), followed by patients themselves (28%) and 
physicians (27%).
CONCLUSION: The decision to enter hospice is related to demographic, clinical, 
and other patient-related characteristics. This study suggests that the 
decision-making process for hospice care in patients with advanced cancer is 
multidimensional. The healthcare community may better meet the end-of-life care 
needs of advanced cancer patients through enhanced communication with patients 
and families, including providing accurate prognoses and better understanding of 
patients' preferences and values.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.51252.x
PMID: 12757565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Control Clin Trials. 2003 Jun;24(3):283-93. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(02)00340-9.

Sample sizes for comparing means of two lifetime distributions with type II 
censored data: application in an aging intervention study.

Xiong C(1), Yan Y, Ji M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Campus Box 8067, Washington University in St. 
Louis, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. chengjie@wubios.wustl.edu

Sample size determination is a very important part of planning for clinical 
trials. Most clinical trials do not follow all their subjects to the terminal 
event, resulting in censored observations. This article presents a method of 
computing sample sizes required to achieve adequate statistical power to compare 
the means of two lifetime distributions when both samples are subject to type II 
censoring. Our approach is based on the location-scale family of log-transformed 
lifetime distributions as compared to that based on the log-rank test and the 
family of proportional hazards. Specific applications to log-normal distribution 
and Weibull distribution are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(02)00340-9
PMID: 12757994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. N Engl J Med. 2003 May 22;348(21):2092-102. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa030448. Epub
2003  May 20.

Cost effectiveness of lung-volume-reduction surgery for patients with severe 
emphysema.

Ramsey SD(1), Berry K, Etzioni R, Kaplan RM, Sullivan SD, Wood DE; National 
Emphysema Treatment Trial Research Group.

Collaborators: Reilly J, Sugarbaker D, Fanning C, Body S, Duffy S, Formanek V, 
Fuhlbrigge A, Hartigan P, Hooper S, Hunsaker A, Jacobson F, Moy M, Peterson S, 
Russell R, Saunders D, Swanson S, McKenna R, Mohsenifar Z, Geaga C, Biring M, 
Clark S, Frantz R, Julien P, Lewis M, Minkoff-Rau J, Yegyan V, Joyner M, DeCamp 
J, Stoller J, Meli Y, Apostolakis J, Atwell D, Chapman J, DeVillers P, Dweik R, 
Kraenzler E, Lann R, Kurokawa N, Marlow S, McCarthy K, McCreight P, Mehta A, 
Meziane M, Minai O, O'Donovan P, Steiger M, White K, Maurer J, Hearn C, Lubell 
S, Schilz R, Durr T, Ginsburg M, Thomashow B, Jellen P, Austin J, Bartels M, 
Berkman Y, Berkoksi P, Brogan F, Chong A, DeMercado G, DiMango A, Kachulis B, 
Khan A, Mets B, O'Shea M, Pearson G, Pfeffer J, Rossoff L, Scharf S, Shiau M, 
Simonelli P, Stavrolakes K, Tsang D, Vilotjevic D, Yip C, Mantinaos M, McKeon M, 
MacIntyre N, Davis RD, Howe J, Coleman RE, Crouch R, Greene D, Grichnik K, 
Harpole D, Krichman A, Lawlor B, McAdams H, Plankeel J, Rinaldo-Gallo S, Smith 
J, Stafford-Smith M, Tapson V, Steele M, Norten J, Utz J, Deschamps C, Mieras K, 
Abel M, Allen M, Andrist D, Aughenbaugh G, Bendel S, Edell E, Edgar M, Edwards 
B, Elliot B, Garrett J, Gillespie D, Gurney J, Hammel B, Hanson K, Hanson L, 
Harms G, Hart J, Hartman T, Hyatt R, Jensen E, Jensen N, Kalra S, Karsell P, 
Midthun D, Mottram C, Swensen S, Sykes A-, Taylor K, Torres N, Hubmayr R, Miller 
D, Bartling S, Bradt K, Make B, Pomerantz M, Gilmartin M, Canterbury J, Carlos 
M, Dibbern P, Fernandez E, Geyman L, Hudson C, Lynch D, Newell J, Quaife R, 
Propst J, Raymond C, Whalen-Price J, Winner K, Zamora M, Cherniack R, Diaz P, 
Ross P, Bees T, Awad H, Drake J, Emery C, Gerhardt M, Kelsey M, King M, 
Rittinger D, Rittinger M, Naunheim K, Alvarez F, Osterloh J, Borosh S, 
Chamberlain W, Frese S, Hibbit A, Kleinhenz ME, Ruppel G, Stolar C, Willey J, 
Keller C, Criner G, Furukawa S, Kuzma AM, Barnette R, Brister N, Carney K, 
Chatila W, Cordova F, D'Alonzo G, Keresztury M, Kirsch K, Kwak C, Lautensack K, 
Lorenzon M, Martin U, Rising P, Schartel S, Travaline J, Vance G, Boiselle P, 
O'Brien G, Ries A, Kaplan R, Ramirez C, Frankville D, Friedman P, Harrell J, 
Johnson J, Kapelanski D, Kupferberg D, Larsen C, Limberg T, Magliocca M, 
Papatheofanis FJ, Sassi-Dambron D, Weeks M, Krasna M, Fessler H, Moskowitz I, 
Gilbert T, Orens J, Scharf S, Shade D, Siegelman S, Silver K, Weir C, White C, 
Martinez F, Iannettoni M, Meldrum C, Bria W, Campbell K, Christensen P, Flaherty 
K, Gay S, Gill P, Kazanjian P, Kazerooni E, Knieper V, Ojo T, Poole L, Quint L, 
Rysso P, Sisson T, True M, Woodcock B, Zaremba L, Kaiser L, Hansen-Flaschen J, 
Geraghty ML, Alavi A, Alcorn T, Aronchcik J, Aukberg S, Benedict B, Craemer S, 
Daniele R, Edelman J, Gefter W, Kotler-Klein L, Kotloff R, Lipson D, Miller W 
Jr, O'Connell R, Opelman S, Russell W, Sheaffer H, Simcox R, Snedeker S, 
Stone-Wynne J, Tino G, Wahl P, Walter J, Ward P, Zisman D, Mendez J, Wurster A, 
Sciurba F, Luketich J, Witt C, Ayres G, Donahoe M, Fuhrman C, Hoffman R, Lacomis 
J, Sexton J, Slivka W, Strollo D, Sullivan E, Simon T, Wrona C, Bauldoff G, 
Brown M, George E, Keenan R, Kopp T, Silfies L, Benditt J, Wood D, Snyder M, 
Anable K, Battaglia N, Boitano L, Bowdle A, Chan L, Chwalik C, Culver B, 
Gillespy T, Godwin D, Hoffman J, Ibrahim A, Lockhart D, Marglin S, Martay K, 
McDowell P, Oxorn D, Roessler L, Toshima M, Golden S, Bosco L, Chiang Y-, Clancy 
C, Handelsman H, Shiengold S, Carino T, Chin J, Farrell J, McVearry K, Norris A, 
Shirey S, Sikora C, Piantadosi S, Tonascia J, Belt P, Collins K, Collison B, 
Dodge J, Donithan M, Edmonds V, Fuller J, Harle J, Jackson R, Koppelman H, Lee 
S, Levine C, Livingston H, Meinert J, Meyers J, Nowakowski D, Owens K, Qi S, 
Smith M, Simon B, Smith P, Sternberg A, Van Natta M, Wilson L, Wise R, Kaplan 
RM, Schwartz JS, Chiang Y-, Fahs MC, Fendrick AM, Moskowitz AJ, Pathak D, Ramsey 
S, Sheingold S, Shroyer AL, Wagner J, Yusen R, Ramsey S, Etzioni R, Sullivan S, 
Wood D, Schroeder T, Smith R, Berry K, Myers N, Hoffman E, Cook-Granroth J, 
Delsing A, Guo J, McLennan G, Mullan B, Piker C, Reinhardt J, Sieren J, Stanford 
W, Waldhausen JA, Bernard G, DeMets D, Ferguson M, Hoover E, Levine R, Mahler D, 
McSweeny AJ, Wiener-Kronish J, Williams OD, Younes M, Criner G, Soltoff C, 
Weinmann G, Deshler J, Follman D, Kiley J, Wu M.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Public Health Sciences Division, 
Seattle, WA 98109, USA. sramsey@fhcrc.org

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2003 May 22;348(21):2134-6.

BACKGROUND: The National Emphysema Treatment Trial, a randomized clinical trial 
comparing lung-volume-reduction surgery with medical therapy for severe 
emphysema, included a prospective economic analysis.
METHODS: After pulmonary rehabilitation, 1218 patients at 17 medical centers 
were randomly assigned to lung-volume-reduction surgery or continued medical 
treatment. Costs for the use of medical care, medications, transportation, and 
time spent receiving treatment were derived from Medicare claims and data from 
the trial. Cost effectiveness was calculated over the duration of the trial and 
was estimated for 10 years of follow-up with the use of modeling based on 
observed trends in survival, cost, and quality of life.
RESULTS: Interim analyses identified a group of patients with excess mortality 
and little chance of improved functional status after surgery. When these 
patients were excluded, the cost-effectiveness ratio for lung-volume-reduction 
surgery as compared with medical therapy was 190,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained at 3 years and 53,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained at 10 years. Subgroup analyses identified 
patients with predominantly upper-lobe emphysema and low exercise capacity after 
pulmonary rehabilitation who had lower mortality and better functional status 
than patients who received medical therapy. The cost-effectiveness ratio in this 
subgroup was 98,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained at 3 years and 
21,000 dollars at 10 years. Bootstrap analysis revealed substantial uncertainty 
for the subgroup and 10-year estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Given its cost and benefits over three years of follow-up, 
lung-volume-reduction surgery is costly relative to medical therapy. Although 
the predictions are subject to substantial uncertainty, the procedure may be 
cost effective if benefits can be maintained over time.

Copyright 2003 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa030448
PMID: 12759480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. N Engl J Med. 2003 May 22;348(21):2134-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe030058. Epub
2003  May 20.

Guidance concerning surgery for emphysema.

Drazen JM, Epstein AM.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2003 May 22;348(21):2059-73.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 May 22;348(21):2092-102.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe030058
PMID: 12759481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Health Econ. 2003 Jun;12(6):493-504. doi: 10.1002/hec.751.

The efficiency of health production: re-estimating the WHO panel data using 
parametric and non-parametric approaches to provide additional information.

Hollingsworth B(1), Wildman J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. 
bruce.hollingsworth@buseco.manash.edu.au

The World Health Report 2000 focuses on the performance of health-care systems 
around the globe. The report uses efficiency measurement techniques to create a 
league table of health-care systems, highlighting good and bad performers. 
Efficiency is measured using panel data methods. This paper suggests that the 
WHO's estimation procedure is too narrow and that contextual information is 
hidden by the use of one method. This paper uses and validates a range of 
parametric and non-parametric empirical methods to measure efficiency using the 
WHO data. The rankings obtained are compared to the WHO league table and we 
demonstrate that there are trends and movements of interest within the league 
tables. We recommend that the WHO broaden its range of techniques in order to 
reveal this hidden information.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.751
PMID: 12759918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 2002;38(4):351-6.

[In memory of Maria Orlando: physical and psychological health in menopause].

[Article in Italian]

Benagiano G(1), Farris M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Ginecologiche, Perinatologia e Puericultura, 
Università degli Studi La Sapienza, Policlinico Umberto I, V.le del Policlinico, 
00161 Roma. giuseppe.benagiano@uniroma1.it

Over the last fifty years life expectancy has increased by some 15 years for 
both sexes, causing an overall increase in the elderly. This will lead in the 
near future, to a number of economic, social and health problems, particularly 
in developing countries, especially to women whose life expectancy, in general, 
is longer than men's. Indeed, globally, already at the end of the twentieth 
century more that 60% of the population over 75 years of age were women. Among 
the elderly, and in particular among women in the third and fourth age, 
age-specific pathologies jeopardize the quality of life of many. In the long 
run, there are two types of problems that greatly affect women: cardiovascular 
and neoplastic diseases. Today, especially in industrialized countries, hormone 
replacement therapy is in widespread use, even though problems connected with 
the long-term use of estrogens are still to be fully understood. In particular 
recent controlled clinical trials have questioned the effectiveness of estrogens 
in preventing cardiovascular diseases. In conclusion, the years after menopause 
that in some cases can exceed 40 years, represent a new challenge for medicine 
and society; this is a challenge that must be met by giving precedence to human 
values, such as economic and social solidarity.

PMID: 12760331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Zhonghua Er Bi Yan Hou Ke Za Zhi. 2001 Oct;36(5):360-2.

[Surgical treatment of craniofacial recurrent carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang D(1), Yang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100853, China. huangdl@plagh.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: The patients with craniofacial recurrent cancers after the radiation, 
chemical and operative therapies were often not able to get effective treatment 
because their lesions involved in the nervous and vascular structure and the 
re-radiation therapy was not suitable or chemical therapy was not sensitive to 
the tumor as well. To improve their survival quality, prevent the fatal 
complication and prolong their life, the surgical treatment for them was 
advised.
METHOD: Six patients were treated surgically. According to the lesion of 
extension and position, the different incisions were respectively made. The 
neoplasms of these patients were resected piece by piece because they usually 
involved in the important structures, such as the internal carotid artery and 
cavernous sinus. Then, local defect was repaired with different methods on basis 
of the individual condition. So, this type of operation could be called as 
non-defined operation.
RESULTS: The lesions in all 6 patients invaded the eye, meninges and encephala, 
skull base, cavernous sinus and other important structures. After surgical 
intervene, the patients were all more than one year survival except for one of 
the patients who died of serous bleeding with corrupted rupture of internal 
carotid artery. Three patients survived for 4, 5 and 12 years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The craniofacial recurrent carcinomas in late stage could be 
resected by the non-defined operation, which could prolong the patients life and 
achieve the desired effect.

PMID: 12761945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Neurosci Methods. 2003 May 30;125(1-2):147-57. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-0270(03)00043-8.

Models for neuro-oncological preclinical studies: solid orthotopic and 
heterotopic grafts of human gliomas into nude mice.

Taillandier L(1), Antunes L, Angioi-Duprez KS.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Medical School, 9 Ave de la Forêt de Haye BP 184, 54505 
Cedex, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France.

To study the optimum therapeutic modalities for treating human malignant brain 
tumors in vivo without ethical limitations, a model of heterotopic and another 
of orthotopic xenografting into nude mice were developed. For the first 
implantation, 11 human high-grade gliomas and 4 low-grade tumors were 
microsurgically grafted on epigastric vessels. The 11 high-grade gliomas, but no 
low-grade tumors, were established into nude mice. Afterwards, all these 
mouse-adapted gliomas which grafted into other nude mice developed. Introduction 
of a microcatheter into the femoral artery or vein permitted infusion for 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and treatment. A bladder catheter setting and 
electrode implantation allowed urine sampling and ECG or EEG recording. Thus, 
the most important parameters of chemo- and radiotherapy to destroy a maximum 
number of malignant cells or to inhibit their divisions and the hosts reactions 
to treatment can be studied. The human gliomas transplanted onto the mouse brain 
infiltrated the host brain at great distances from the tumor, as in human 
patients. So, this second implantation constitutes a representative model of the 
evolution of human gliomas, and allows the study of malignant cell migration in 
the brain before, during and after treatment determined with the heterotopic 
model and to appreciate the tolerance of the colonized brain to these 
treatments. Echography and MRI allowed us to follow the macroscopic evolution 
with or without treatment of the malignant brain tumors transplanted onto mouse 
brains. It should now be possible to undertake the same clinical studies on 
patients after appropriate consideration of ethical and scientific constraints.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(03)00043-8
PMID: 12763241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Br J Radiol. 2003 May;76(905):309-20. doi: 10.1259/bjr/64009424.

Analysis of benefit:risk ratio and mortality reduction for the UK Breast 
Screening Programme.

Beckett JR(1), Kotre CJ, Michaelson JS.

Author information:
(1)Regional Medical Physics Department, Newcastle General Hospital, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE4 6BE, UK.

A quantitative analysis has been performed to predict the benefit:risk ratio and 
associated mortality reduction for the UK National Health Service Breast 
Screening Programme. The analysis is based on the results of an established 
biological simulation method coupled with dosimetric information and population 
statistics applicable to the UK breast screening programme. As well as the 
general breast screening population, the benefit:risk ratios for specific 
subgroups of women thought to be at higher risk are estimated. The effects of 
alterations in screening strategy are also investigated. The results indicate 
favourable benefit:risk ratios and mortality reductions for all women in the 
programme, with a breast cancer mortality reduction of approximately 9% over the 
whole UK female population, equivalent to a breast cancer mortality reduction in 
the region of 25% for the age range 55-69 years.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/64009424
PMID: 12763946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Psychosom Med. 2003 May-Jun;65(3):376-83. doi: 
10.1097/01.psy.0000041624.96580.1f.

Depression and coronary heart disease in women with diabetes.

Clouse RE(1), Lustman PJ, Freedland KE, Griffith LS, McGill JB, Carney RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. rclouse@im.wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: The protective effects of female gender on the appearance and course 
of coronary heart disease (CHD) in nondiabetic subjects are diminished in the 
presence of diabetes. Depression predicts onset of and poor outcome from CHD in 
nondiabetic populations. We hypothesized that the doubled rates of depression in 
female diabetic patients could help explain the high prevalence of CHD in women 
with diabetes.
METHOD: Seventy-six female type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients with (N=16) or 
without (N=60) active major depression (DSM-III) at index evaluation underwent 
systematic annual investigation of diabetes and its complications for up to 10 
years. Occurrences of CHD and other macrovascular complications were examined in 
relation to depression status using survival analysis statistics. A multivariate 
model incorporating other CHD risk factors (age, duration of diabetes, body mass 
index, glycosylated hemoglobin, and presence of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, or 
tobacco use) was used to determine independent effects of depression on outcome.
RESULTS: Development of CHD was significantly more rapid in the depressed subset 
(p<0.01 between 10-year curves), an effect that persisted after controlling for 
base-line differences in body mass index. Depression also was retained as an 
independent predictor of CHD in the multivariate model with an age-adjusted 
hazard ratio of 5.2 (95% CI: 1.4-18.9; p=.01). In contrast, depression did not 
predict the development of clinically apparent peripheral or cerebrovascular 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: In this sample of diabetic women, major depression was an 
independent risk factor that accelerated the development of CHD. Depression 
recognition and management may improve outcomes from diabetes in this gender 
subgroup.

DOI: 10.1097/01.psy.0000041624.96580.1f
PMID: 12764210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2003 Mar;98(2):199-208. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762003000200006. Epub 2003 May 15.

Mortality in immatures of the floodwater mosquito Ochlerotatus albifasciatus 
(Diptera: Culicidae) and effects of parasitism by Strelkovimermis spiculatus 
(Nematoda: Mermithidae) in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina.

Campos RE(1), Sy VE.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Limnolog a 'Dr. Raúl A. Ringuelet', Universidad Nacional de La 
Plata, La Plata, Argentina. rcampos@ilpla.edu.ar

Life tables were constructed for six cohorts of immature stages of the 
floodwater mosquito Ochlerotatus albifasciatus (Macquart) in a park in Buenos 
Aires, highlighting the mortality attributable to the parasitic nematode, 
Strelkovimermis spiculatus Poinar & Camino. Two cohorts were selected to compare 
parasite incidence in all mosquito stages when low and high parasitism occurred. 
Development time of Oc. albifasciatus from first instar to adult was 7.7-10 days 
in the spring, 6 days in the summer, and 10.9-21.9 days in the fall. Survival 
was estimated as 0-1.4% in the spring, 2% in the summer and 0.2-4.4% in the 
fall. The highest "K" value (Killing power) occurred during a fall cohort when 
prevalence of the parasite was 86.9%, and the lowest in a spring cohort. 
Parasitism occurred during all seasons, but S. spiculatus persisted to adult 
only in the summer and fall, when adult mosquitoes developed from parasitized 
third and fourth instars larvae. The abundance of S. spiculatus differed between 
old and young larvae only when parasite prevalence was the highest. Although 
pupae and adults of Oc. albifasciatus were parasitized, no pupal mortality 
attributable to parasitism was recorded. The proportion of parasitized adults 
ranged from 14.2% and 5.7% in the two cohorts compared. Pupal wet weight and 
adult wing lengths did not differ between parasitized and unparasitized 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762003000200006
PMID: 12764434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Bull World Health Organ. 2003;81(4):277-85. Epub 2003 May 16.

The cost-effectiveness of policies for the safe and appropriate use of injection 
in healthcare settings.

Dziekan G(1), Chisholm D, Johns B, Rovira J, Hutin YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood Safety and Clinical Technology, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Poor injection practices transmit potentially life-threatening 
pathogens. We modelled the cost-effectiveness of policies for the safe and 
appropriate use of injections in ten epidemiological subregions of the world in 
terms of cost per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted.
METHODS: The incidence of injection-associated hepatitis B virus (HBV), 
hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections was 
modelled for a year 2000 cohort over a 30-year time horizon. The consequences of 
a "do nothing" scenario were compared with a set of hypothetical scenarios that 
incorporated the health gains of effective interventions. Resources needed to 
implement effective interventions were costed for each subregion and expressed 
in international dollars (I dollars).
FINDINGS: Worldwide, the reuse of injection equipment in the year 2000 accounted 
for 32%, 40%, and 5% of new HBV, HCV and HIV infections, respectively, leading 
to a burden of 9.18 million DALYs between 2000 and 2030. Interventions 
implemented in the year 2000 for the safe (provision of single-use syringes, 
assumed effectiveness 95%) and appropriate (patients-providers interactional 
group discussions, assumed effectiveness 30%) use of injections could reduce the 
burden of injection-associated infections by as much as 96.5% (8.86 million 
DALYs) for an average yearly cost of 905 million I dollars (average cost per 
DALY averted, 102; range by region, 14-2293). Attributable fractions and the 
number of syringes and needles required represented the key sources of 
uncertainty.
CONCLUSION: In all subregions studied, each DALY averted through policies for 
the safe and appropriate use of injections costs considerably less than one year 
of average per capita income, which makes such policies a sound investment for 
health care.

PMCID: PMC2572434
PMID: 12764494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Mt Sinai J Med. 2003 May;70(3):141-7.

Extension of organ transplantation: some ethical considerations.

Agich GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Avenue, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

The concept of vital organ transplantation is critically analyzed by considering 
how traditional transplantation modifies the commitment to saving lives. 
Problems such as those associated with immunosuppression might seem to provide a 
compelling reason to oppose extension of transplantation to non-lifesaving 
situations. A closer examination, however, shows that immunosuppression does not 
present an intractable objection. For some organ transplants, such as the 
uterus, use of immunosuppression could be limited to the childbearing years. 
Complexities associated with assessment of quality of life are discussed using 
the example of hand transplantation. Assessment of success and functionality in 
a hand transplant is more complicated than it might appear at first. These 
complications suggest that monitoring and assessment should be a part of any 
extension of organ transplantation. Informed consent provides a limited, but 
important, component in justifying extended transplantation. Such justification, 
however, does not rest on patient autonomy, but on the reasonable prospect of 
benefit. Transplant programs considering an extension of traditional 
transplantation should develop formal protocols that include assessment of 
costs, benefits, quality of life, and the adequacy of informed consent.

PMID: 12764530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Prog Urol. 2003 Apr;13(2):209-14.

[Prostate cancer screening].

[Article in French]

Villers A, Rébillard X, Soulié M, Davin JL, Coloby P, Moreau JL, Mejean A, Irani 
J, Coulange C, Mangin P; French Association of Urology.

Prostate cancer has become the most frequent cancer and the second cause of 
cancer mortality in men. This public health problem is becoming increasingly 
important due to the increasing life expectancy. At the present time, prostate 
cancer will be discovered in one in every eight men during their lifetime. 
Prostate cancer represents 25% of all new cases of male cancers. Prostate cancer 
screening is designed to detect early stage, asymptomatic prostate cancer, as 
the patient's chances of cure are higher when the cancer is diagnosed at an 
early stage. The conclusions of the ANAES evaluation in 1998 did not recommend 
mass screening for prostate cancer. Several international prospective randomized 
studies based on serum PSA assay, sometimes associated with digital rectal 
examination, are currently underway. France is participating in the European 
ERSPC study (European Randomized Study of Screening for Cancer Prostate) and is 
organizing a national study on high-risk populations. While waiting for the 
final results of these studies, a recommendation needs to be proposed to inform 
general practitioners and specialists about optimal use of the currently 
available tests. Based on the conclusions of its oncology committee (composed of 
urologists, medical oncologists, radiotherapists, pathologists and 
radiologists), the Association Française d'Urologie proposes a recommendation 
concerning prostate cancer screening and defines its modalities, especially 
concerning the target population, screening tests and the information given to 
men before screening. The Association Française d'Urologie recommends prostate 
cancer screening by PSA assay (prostate specific antigen) and digital rectal 
examination annually between the ages of 50 and 75 years, and from the age of 45 
years in men with a family or ethnic risk. If total PSA is above the normal 
value of the test or if digital rectal examination is abnormal, referral to a 
urologist is recommended. Information concerning the limits, benefits and risks 
of screening and the available treatment options must be given before performing 
these examinations.

PMID: 12765053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Lupus. 2003;12(5):341-55. doi: 10.1191/0961203303lu383ed.

Autoimmunity and geriatrics: clinical significance of autoimmune manifestations 
in the elderly.

Ramos-Casals M(1), García-Carrasco M, Brito MP, López-Soto A, Font J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Autoimmune Diseases, Clinical Institute of Infections and 
Immunology, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, Barcelona, 
Spain. mramos@clinic.ub.es

The immune system undergoes continuous morphologic and functional changes 
throughout the years, and it is now believed that the immune response has its 
peak function in puberty and gradually decreases with age (immunosenescence). 
Recent studies in healthy octogenarian patients suggest that the immune system, 
instead of suffering a generalized deterioration, undergoes a 
remodelling/readjustment of its major functions. Increase in two contrasting 
phenomena coexist in immunosenescence: on the one hand, a decrease in the 
capacity of the immune response and, on the other hand autoantibody production. 
The possible consequences of this progressive 'ageing' of the immune system are 
the increase in autoimmune phenomena, incidence of neoplasia and predisposition 
to infections. The study of autoimmune manifestations in elderly populations 
should be considered a priority for future medical research because of 
increasing life expectancy, especially in developed countries. This review 
analyses the main immune disorders associated with immunosenescence, the 
prevalence and clinical significance of autoantibodies in the elderly and the 
clinical expression of the main autoimmune diseases in older patients.

DOI: 10.1191/0961203303lu383ed
PMID: 12765297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Biogerontology. 2003;4(2):91-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1023347803932.

Variable effects of vitamin E on Drosophila longevity.

Driver C(1), Georgeou A.

Author information:
(1)The National Ageing Research Institute, P.O. Box 35, Poplar Rd, Parkville, 
VIC 3052, Australia. c.driver@nari.unimelb.edu.au

Vitamin E has been used widely in invertebrate experiments where it usually acts 
to prolong life span. Conversely in vertebrates it has been less successful. In 
some cases, experiments in rodents show no effect of vitamin E on longevity. 
Consequently, the suggestion has been made that anti-oxidants do not effect 
ageing in vertebrates. In more extensive experiments with Drosophila 
melanogaster, vitamin E exerted both life span extending and toxic effects. At 
20 micro g/ml, the life span was increased by 16%, although there was no effect 
at higher or lower concentrations. At 200 micro g/ml, vitamin E protected 
Drosophila against paraquat toxicity. At this concentration, vitamin E had no 
effect on longevity in one set of experiments, and shortened the life span in 
another set. Apparent toxicity of vitamin E was also observed in behavior 
experiments. We suggest that inactivity of vitamin E that has been reported by 
some authors is due to antagonistic actions of a toxic effect and a beneficial 
anti-oxidant action. This complex response to vitamin E will limit its use for 
clinical and investigative work on ageing.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023347803932
PMID: 12766533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Biogerontology. 2003;4(2):113-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1023304021679.

The age-related accumulation of dolichol in rat liver may correlate with 
expectation of life.

Dolfi C(1), Bergamini E, Carresi C, Cavallini G, Donati A, Maccheroni M, 
Parentini I, Marino M, Gori Z.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Patologia Sperimentale, Biotecnologie Mediche, Infettivologia 
e Epidemiologia, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

In order to test the hypothesis that the ageing-related alteration in membrane 
lipids might reflect the biological age of rodents, the levels of liver dolichol 
were assayed by the HPLC procedure in male ad-libitum fed (AL) Sprague-Dawley 
rats aged 2, 6, 12 and 24 months, and in 24-month-old rats on anti-aging 
food-restrictions (FR) differing in duration and in their effects on longevity. 
Results showed that the effects on liver dolichol of FR initiated at 2, 6 and 12 
months of age, or initiated at 2 and interrupted at 18 months of age were 
significantly different, and reflected the differences in the effects of FR on 
expectation of life (the longer the expected residual lifespan the lower the 
content in liver dolichol). The conclusion is that assay of the quantity of 
dolichol in the liver tissue may be used as a marker of the biological age of 
the animal and therefore as an important biomarker of ageing.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023304021679
PMID: 12766536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Biogerontology. 2003;4(2):119-20. doi: 10.1023/a:1023356005749.

Is mammalian aging genetically controlled?

de Magalhães JP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Namur (FUNDP), Unit on Cellular Biology (URBC), Rue de 
Bruxelles, 61, 5000 Namur, Belgium. jpnitya@senescence.info

The rate of aging is species-specific, indicating that aging has a strong 
genetic component. Amongst mammals, the synchronization of the aging process 
suggests the presence of genetic determinants. In addition, single gene 
manipulations can change the rate of aging and demonstrate how a few genetic 
factors can regulate aging. Therefore, I propose that aging is regulated by a 
small set of genetic mechanisms, a single clock. If we can find what these 
regulatory mechanisms are, then instead of trying to delay age-related 
pathologies one by one we may be able to discover how to delay the entire aging 
process and most, if not all, of its pathologies.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023356005749
PMID: 12766537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Am Heart J. 2003 May;145(5):882-7. doi: 10.1016/S0002-8703(03)00072-3.

Cost-effectiveness of measuring fractional flow reserve to guide coronary 
interventions.

Fearon WF(1), Yeung AC, Lee DP, Yock PG, Heidenreich PA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford University Medical Center, 
Stanford, Calif 94305-5406, USA. wfearon@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Most patients come to the catheterization laboratory without prior 
functional tests, which makes the cost-effective treatment of patients with 
intermediate coronary lesions a practical challenge.
METHODS: We developed a decision model to compare the long-term costs and 
benefits of 3 strategies for treating patients with an intermediate coronary 
lesion and no prior functional study: 1) deferring the decision for percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) to obtain a nuclear stress imaging study (NUC 
strategy); 2) measuring fractional flow reserve (FFR) at the time of angiography 
to help guide the decision for PCI (FFR strategy); and 3) stenting all 
intermediate lesions (STENT strategy). On the basis of the literature, we 
estimated that 40% of intermediate lesions would produce ischemia, 70% of 
patients treated with PCI and 30% of patients treated medically would be free of 
angina after 4 years, and the quality-of-life adjustment for living with angina 
was 0.9 (1.0 = perfect health). We estimated the cost of FFR to be 761 dollars, 
the cost of nuclear stress imaging to be 1093 dollars, and the cost of medical 
treatment for angina to be 1775 dollars per year. The extra cost of splitting 
the angiogram and PCI as dictated by the NUC strategy was 3886 dollars by use of 
hospital cost-accounting data. Sensitivity and threshold analyses were performed 
to determine which variables affected our results.
RESULTS: The FFR strategy saved 1795 dollars per patient compared with the NUC 
strategy and 3830 dollars compared with the STENT strategy. Quality-adjusted 
life expectancy was similar among the 3 strategies (NUC-FFR = 0.8 
quality-adjusted days, FFR-STENT = 6 quality-adjusted life days). Compared with 
the FFR strategy, the NUC strategy was expensive (>800,000 dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year gained). Both screening strategies were superior to 
(less cost, better outcomes) the STENT strategy. Sensitivity analysis indicated 
that the NUC strategy would only become attractive (<50,000 
dollars/quality-adjusted life years compared with FFR) if the specificity of 
nuclear stress imaging was >25% better than FFR. Our results were not altered 
significantly by changing the other assumptions.
CONCLUSION: In patients with an intermediate coronary lesion and no prior 
functional study, measuring FFR to guide the decision to perform PCI may lead to 
significant cost savings compared with performing nuclear stress imaging or with 
simply stenting lesions in all patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-8703(03)00072-3
PMID: 12766748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2003 May;18(5):373-80. doi: 10.1002/gps.838.

The identification of trends in the utilisation of mental health services by 
elderly: a Dutch case register study.

Pijl YJ(1), Sytema S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. Y.J.Pijl@med.rug.nl

OBJECTIVE: In view of the rapid ageing of the population any changes in the use 
of mental health services by the elderly became increasingly important for 
policy development. This study aimed at the supply of information about trends 
in the numbers of elderly clients, the services they used and the volume and 
pattern of service utilisation.
METHODS: Details of elderly users and their use of community- and hospital-based 
services between 1990 and 1999 were retrieved from the Groningen case register. 
Developments in population size and age distribution in the register area were 
taken into account, as were the unit costs of mental health services.
RESULTS: Large age specific changes were found that caused only the expenditures 
on the oldest elderly to increase due to a shift from outpatient clinics to 
prolonged psychogeriatric day treatment and inpatient care. Comparatively young 
elderly used fewer inpatient services and more community care. The number of new 
elderly clients declined progressively. In some age groups treated prevalence 
also decreased, but to a lesser extent, because of a prolonged use of mental 
health services.
CONCLUSIONS: Study results seemed well in accordance with mental health policy 
as to deinstitutionalization and active ageing. Research on the effect of mental 
health care on life expectancy and the time lag between the intake of mental 
health providers and treated prevalence was proposed in order to improve the 
prediction of future service use by elderly.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.838
PMID: 12766911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2003 May;18(5):425-31. doi: 10.1002/gps.857.

Does aspirin affect outcome in vascular dementia? A retrospective case-notes 
analysis.

Devine ME(1), Rands G.

Author information:
(1)Drayton Community Care Centre, London, UK. michaellisdevine@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Ischaemic vascular dementia shares risk factors with stroke. There 
is evidence that control of these risk factors may prevent or alter the course 
of vascular dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of regular low-dose aspirin on outcomes for 
patients with vascular dementia.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of hospital case-notes with further outcome 
information from telephone calls to general practitioners, social services and 
institutions. Comparison of outcomes for aspirin-treated and untreated patients.
SETTING: One North London NHS Trust.
PATIENTS: Seventy-eight patients with clinician's diagnosis of ischaemic 
vascular dementia, discharged from acute inpatient units between 1 January 1995 
and 31 December 1997; 38 on aspirin.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival times from dementia onset to 
institutionalization and death.
RESULTS: Median survival time to institutionalization was 28 months and to death 
was 52 months. There was no overall difference between aspirin and non-aspirin 
groups for these outcomes. When data were stratified for social status, i.e. 
living alone or with carer when last at home, differences emerged for those 
living with carer. Aspirin was associated with a trend towards increased time to 
institutionalization (39 vs 22 months, p < 0.09) and a significant advantage in 
time to death (71 vs 27 months, p = 0.02). These effects were non-significant 
after statistical adjustment for confounding variables.
CONCLUSIONS: The results support but do not prove a role for regular, low-dose 
aspirin in improving both life expectancy and survival at home for patients with 
vascular dementia. Compliance may be better in those living with a carer. 
Larger, prospective studies should be performed to confirm these findings. 
Cognitive and behavioural outcomes should also be studied.

