Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.857
PMID: 12766920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 May 10;147(19):917-21.

[Mortality due to smoking in the Netherlands: 1.2 million tobacco-related deaths 
between 1950 and 2015].

[Article in Dutch]

Bonneux LG(1), Looman CW, Coebergh JW.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medisch Centrum, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, 
Rotterdam. l.bonneux@jc.azu.nl

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 May 10;147(19):922-7.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the medical consequences of the tobacco use in the 
Netherlands for the past 50 years and the near future.
DESIGN: Theoretical study based on the national death records and published 
risks by cause of death of tobacco use.
METHOD: Observed lung cancer mortality (1950-1999) was related to birth cohort 
and age by a statistical model (according to Peto), and then projected into the 
near future. The smoking intensity was defined as the difference between the 
expected lung-cancer mortality if no one smoked and the observed lung-cancer 
mortality. Using this smoking intensity and published risks for other 
smoking-related causes of death, the model provided estimates of smoking-related 
mortality by age, sex and cause of death.
RESULTS: In 1999, 18% (women) and 32% (men) of all mortality before the age of 
70 was attributable to smoking. If no one had smoked, Dutch life expectancy for 
men and women would have been 3 years and 1 year higher, respectively. Between 
1950 and 1999, 13% of all deaths were caused by smoking, the large majority (> 
90%) of which occurred among men. Between 2000 and 2015, slightly more deaths 
are to be attributed to smoking (14%), 62% of which will be among men. In 2015, 
women will have caught up with men in terms of absolute numbers of lung-cancer 
mortality.
CONCLUSION: Around one quarter of premature deaths were caused by smoking. In 
the near future, women of the baby-boom generation will have reached middle age 
and the highest (relative) smoking-related risks. It is important that clinical 
practice takes this increased risk of disease into account among middle-aged 
women who smoke.

PMID: 12768807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Qual Life Res. 2003 May;12(3):275-80. doi: 10.1023/a:1023273117040.

A theory-based method for the evaluation of individual quality of life: the 
SEIQoL.

Joyce CR(1), Hickey A, McGee HM, O'Boyle CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, 
Ireland. crbjoyce@freesurf.ch

Few reports about methods of evaluating quality of life (QoL) among the 
thousands published since medical interest in the subject slowly began nearly 40 
years ago are based upon theory. This paper, prepared in response to a request 
to furnish an exception (Meadows KA. Introduction to an Advanced Seminar: 
Assessing Health-Related Quality of Life. What can the Cognitive Sciences 
Contribute? Hull University, October 9, 2000) describes the origins of the 
Schedule for the Evaluation of Individual Quality of Life (SEIQoL). This derives 
its cognitive aspects from theoretical studies of perception by Egon Brunswik, 
their extension to Social Judgment Theory (SJT) by Kenneth Hammond and the 
application of these ideas to QoL by the present authors and their colleagues.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023273117040
PMID: 12769139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Curr Drug Targets Immune Endocr Metabol Disord. 2003 Jun;3(2):111-7. doi: 
10.2174/1568008033340289.

AIDS-related insulin resistance and lipodystrophy syndrome.

Kino T(1), Chrousos GP.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric and Reproductive Endocrinology Branch. National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-1583, USA. kinot@mail.nih.gov

The recent development of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
drastically improved the life expectancy of AIDS patients, by reducing 
infection-related mortality. However, the prolongation of the lives of 
HIV-1-infected patients and/or the long-term use of novel, potent antiviral 
agents have generated a score of new problems and complications. Among them is 
the AIDS-related insulin resistance and lipodystrophy syndrome, which is 
observed in 30-80% of AIDS patients who are well controlled by HAART. This 
syndrome is associated with severe metabolic disturbances, such as carbohydrate 
intolerance/diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia, which cause atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease. The etiology of this syndrome appears to be 
multi-factorial; other than the anti-viral drugs, hypercytokinemia and the HIV-1 
infection itself, including the virally encoded molecules Vpr and Tat, could 
contribute to the development of these pathologic changes or increase the 
vulnerability of patients to the adverse effect of the therapeutic compounds. In 
this article, we review our current understanding of the pathogenesis and 
therapeutic approach of this newly emerging AIDS-associated metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.2174/1568008033340289
PMID: 12769783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Insect Physiol. 1997 Aug;43(8):767-777. doi:
10.1016/s0022-1910(97)00032-2.

Photoperiodism and control of summer diapause in the Mediterranean tiger moth 
Cymbalophora pudica.

Hodek I(1), Kostál V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Entomology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Ceské 
Budejovice, Czech Republic

Photoperiodic responses to both constant and changing photoperiods were studied 
in the Mediterranean tiger moth Cymbalophora pudica. Embryos, larval instars and 
prepupae were all sensitive to photoperiod, and the responses of larvae and 
prepupae to changing photoperiods were similar. At 23+/-2 degrees C, constant 
24-h photoperiods with short photophases (11, 12h) induced a long diapause (mean 
88days) whereas long photophases (14, 16h) induced a short diapause (mean 
52days). A change to a longer or shorter photophase during larval development or 
during diapause caused a significant extension (up to a maximum of 138days) or 
shortening (down to a minimum of 10days) of diapause, respectively, but only 
when at least one of the photophases was longer than 14h. Thus, shortening and 
prolongation of photophase had an opposite effect than constant short and long 
photophases, respectively. Changes within the range of photophases of 10-14h did 
not cause a significant change in diapause duration.Experimental results enabled 
us to outline the mechanisms regulating voltinism and the duration of summer 
diapause. For the monovoltine cycle, cold autumn/winter temperatures slow down 
larval development, and prepupal aestivation starts relatively late (March, 
April). Prepupae are then kept in diapause by the increasing daylength (>14h 
after late April). Pupation is synchronized by decreasing daylength after summer 
solstice, and imagoes emerge in September/October. For the bivoltine cycle, when 
the autumn/winter temperatures are relatively warm, a certain portion of the 
population (depending on the individual rate of growth) may be diverted to a 
bivoltine life-cycle. In such a case, larval development is fast and short 
enough to allow an early start of diapause (prior to or during February). The 
duration of such early diapause is not influenced by changes in daylength 
(<14h); pupation occurs very early (April/May), and spring generation imagoes 
fly and oviposit in May/June. Summer larvae and prepupae live under decreasing 
daylength (>14h), which shortens their diapause to 20-30days. Imagoes of the 
autumnal generation thus occur in September/October, together with the 
univoltine portion of the population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-1910(97)00032-2
PMID: 12770455


915. CMAJ. 2003 May 27;168(11):1394-6; author reply 1396.

QALYs: the best option so far.

Chong CA.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2003 Feb 18;168(4):433-4.

PMCID: PMC155951
PMID: 12771064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Optom Vis Sci. 2003 May;80(5):344-55. doi: 10.1097/00006324-200305000-00009.

Uveal melanoma and poor treatment compliance: an atypical outcome with 
literature review.

Park WL(1), Jenison-Williams T, Pasqua-Darnell T.

Author information:
(1)The Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute, The Johns Hopkins University, School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. wpark@jhmi.edu

BACKGROUND: A uveal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy 
and is the primary intraocular disease that can be fatal in adults. Until 
recently, data were limited regarding growth characteristics and at what stage 
metastases are likely to occur.
CASE REPORT: A 49-year-old white male presented on January 19, 1989, for a 
second opinion regarding a spot that had been discovered in the right eye 13 
months prior. Ophthalmologic evaluation and echography were consistent for a 
uveal melanoma of 5 mm elevation and 13.5 x 6 mm in diameter. The patient 
refused treatment or enrollment into the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study. On 
December 9, 1991, the eye was enucleated with a modified exenteration due to 
severe proptosis, tumor thickness of 22 mm, and three areas of extrascleral 
extension. The patient refused postoperative radiation treatment and refused 
clinical follow-up. This case was reviewed from the initial evaluation date 
through the last clinical visit. The patient was recently interviewed with 
respect to his use of homeopathic medicine, change in lifestyle, and the effect 
he felt it might have had on his life.
DISCUSSION: The literature published by the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study 
regarding the histopathologic characteristics of eyes enucleated and the initial 
mortality findings of a large choroidal melanoma indicate that this is a most 
unusual case. The patient has defied the mortality findings of the most recent 
and largest study to date (mean survival rate, 82 months). The patient is still 
alive 181 months after the original finding of the lesion and refusal of advised 
treatment recommendations in favor of homeopathic medicine.

DOI: 10.1097/00006324-200305000-00009
PMID: 12771660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2003 May;125(5):1175-6; author reply 1176. doi: 
10.1067/mtc.2003.286.

An economic evaluation of lung transplantation.

Ouwens JP, Groen H, van der Bij W, TenVergert EM.

Comment on
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2002 Mar;123(3):411-8; discussion 418-20.

DOI: 10.1067/mtc.2003.286
PMID: 12771903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Tech Vasc Interv Radiol. 2003 Mar;6(1):59-69. doi: 10.1053/tvir.2003.36433.

Applications of percutaneous mechanical thrombectomy in transjugular 
intrahepatic portosystemic shunt and portal vein thrombosis.

Uflacker R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC 
29245, USA.

Portal vein thrombosis (PVT) is an uncommon cause for presinusoidal portal 
hypertension. PVT can be caused by one of three broad mechanisms: (1) 
spontaneous thrombosis when thrombosis develops in the absence of mechanical 
obstruction, usually in the presence of inherited or acquired hypercoagulable 
states; (2) intrinsic mechanical obstruction because of vascular injury and 
scarring or invasion by an intrahepatic or adjacent tumor; or (3) extrinsic 
constriction by adjacent tumor, lymphadenopathy or inflammatory process. 
Usually, several combined factors are necessary to result in PVT. The 
consequences of portal vein thrombosis are mostly related to the extension of 
the clot within the vein. Gastrointestinal bleeding from gastroesophageal 
varices is the most frequent presentation. Noninvasive imaging techniques are 
currently used for the screening of patients and the initial diagnosis of PVT. 
The invasive techniques are reserved for cases when noninvasive techniques are 
inconclusive, before percutaneous interventional treatment, or in preoperative 
assessment of patients who are candidates for surgery. Recanalization of the 
portal vein with anticoagulation alone may not be consistent or appropriate in 
highly symptomatic patients. Catheterization of the superior mesenteric artery 
(SMA) is helpful for diagnosis as well as for therapy by allowing the 
intra-arterial infusion of thrombolytic drugs in the same setting. Direct 
transhepatic portography allows precise determination of the degree of stenosis 
and extension within the portal vein, as well as pressure measurements. 
Thrombotic occlusions of the portal, mesenteric, and splenic veins can be 
managed by mechanical thrombectomy (MT) or pharmacologic thrombolysis. 
Underlying occlusions because of organized or refractory thrombus or fixed 
venous stenosis are best corrected by balloon angioplasty and stent placement. 
Access into the portal venous system can also be established through creating a 
transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). Creating a TIPS is also 
important in the setting of PVT associated with cirrhosis to decompress portal 
hypertension and improve portal venous flow. PVT involving the portal, splenic, 
and/or mesenteric veins can also complicate a preexisting TIPS in which case the 
shunt can be readily used as therapy access. Several techniques may be used to 
recanalize the shunt and portal venous system, including thrombolytic therapy, 
balloon angioplasty/embolectomy, suction embolectomy, basket extraction of 
clots, and mechanical thrombectomy with a variety of devices. Advantages of MT 
include the potential to rapidly remove thrombus without the need for prolonged 
thrombolytic infusions, and reducing the potential life-threatening 
complications of thrombolytic therapy. Possible drawbacks include the risk of 
intimal or vascular trauma to the portal vein, which may promote recurrent 
thrombosis.

Copyright 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/tvir.2003.36433
PMID: 12772131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Zhonghua Er Bi Yan Hou Ke Za Zhi. 2002 Oct;37(5):380-3.

[The management of stomal recurrence after laryngectomy].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y(1), Tang P, Qi Y, Xu Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Science, Beijing Union Medical University, Beijing 100021, China. 
zhangliyong_2000@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To study effective prevention and treatment of stoma recurrence after 
laryngectomy.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 23 patients with stomal recurrence after 
laryngectomy was conducted. Among all 23 cases, 20 cases were referred to Cancer 
Hospital of Chinese Academy of Medical Science from other hospitals. The 
etiopathology of stomal recurrence after laryngectomy, feasibilities of various 
kinds of operative treatment and outcomes of clinical management in this series 
were analyzed.
RESULTS: The subglottic extension and invasion of paraglottic portion of 
laryngeal cancer and peritreacheal metastasis may result in stomal recurrence. 
The survival period of 18 cases surgically treated was longer than that of 5 
cases untreated or irradiated and/or chemotherapied. The 1- and 5-year survival 
rates were 40.7% and 20.4%, respectively. The common complication was pharyngeal 
fistula. Surgical treatment may relieve local pain, improve breathing, resume 
swallowing and decrease cancer ulcer bleeding.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall prognosis of peristomal recurrence after laryngectomy 
was awful and dismal. Prevention should be stressed in surgical treatment of the 
subglottic extension, invasion of paraglottic portion and peritreacheal node 
metastasis. A proper surgical treatment in some cases of stomal recurrence would 
prolong the lifetime and advance the life quality of the patients.

PMID: 12772463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Popul Health Metr. 2003 Apr 14;1(1):2. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-1-2.

Monitoring health inequalities: life expectancy and small area deprivation in 
New Zealand.

Tobias MI(1), Cheung J.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Directorate, Ministry of Health, Wellington, New Zealand. 
Martin_Tobias@moh.govt.nz

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic and ethnic inequalities in health are of great 
concern, and life expectancy provides a readily understood means of monitoring 
such inequalities. The objectives of this study are to (1) measure life 
expectancy by socioeconomic deprivation and ethnicity, and (2) describe trends 
in the deprivation gradient in life expectancy since the mid-1990s. METHODS: 
Three years of national mortality data have been combined with mid-point 
population denominators to produce life tables within nationally determined 
levels of small area deprivation (NZDep96) for three ethnic group: European, 
Mäori and Pacific peoples. This process has been repeated for the periods 
1995-97, 1996-98, 1997-99 and 1998-2000. RESULTS: There was a strong 
relationship between increasing small area deprivation and decreasing life 
expectancy. Through the mid- to late 1990s, males living in the most deprived 
small areas in New Zealand experienced life expectancies at birth approximately 
nine years less than their counterparts living in the least deprived areas; for 
females the corresponding difference was under seven years.Mäori and Pacific 
life expectancies at birth were lower than those of Europeans at each level of 
deprivation.Over the study period (1995-2000) the gradient in life expectancy 
across deprivation deciles remained stable. CONCLUSION: Small area deprivation 
analyses of life expectancy could be repeated routinely at regular intervals, 
which would provide a useful approach to monitoring trends in socioeconomic, 
geographic, ethnic and gender inequalities in mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-1-2
PMCID: PMC156625
PMID: 12773214


921. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2003 Feb 26;1(1):6. doi: 10.1186/1478-7547-1-6.

PopMod: a longitudinal population model with two interacting disease states.

Lauer JA(1), Röhrich K, Wirth H, Charette C, Gribble S, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy (GPE/EQC), World Health 
Organization, 1211 Geneva 27, SWITZERLAND. lauerj@who.int

This article provides a description of the population model PopMod, which is 
designed to simulate the health and mortality experience of an arbitrary 
population subjected to two interacting disease conditions as well as all other 
"background" causes of death and disability. Among population models with a 
longitudinal dimension, PopMod is unique in modelling two interacting disease 
conditions; among the life-table family of population models, PopMod is unique 
in not assuming statistical independence of the diseases of interest, as well as 
in modelling age and time independently. Like other multi-state models, however, 
PopMod takes account of "competing risk" among diseases and causes of 
death.PopMod represents a new level of complexity among both generic population 
models and the family of multi-state life tables. While one of its intended uses 
is to describe the time evolution of population health for standard demographic 
purposes (e.g. estimates of healthy life expectancy), another prominent aim is 
to provide a standard measure of effectiveness for intervention and 
cost-effectiveness analysis. PopMod, and a set of related standard approaches to 
disease modelling and cost-effectiveness analysis, will facilitate disease 
modelling and cost-effectiveness analysis in diverse settings and help make 
results more comparable.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7547-1-6
PMCID: PMC156025
PMID: 12773215


922. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(2):1-174. doi: 10.3310/hta7020.

Systematic review of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, and economic 
evaluation, of home versus hospital or satellite unit haemodialysis for people 
with end-stage renal failure.

Mowatt G(1), Vale L, Perez J, Wyness L, Fraser C, MacLeod A, Daly C, Stearns SC.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, UK.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7020
PMID: 12773260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Mol Cell Biol. 2003 Jun;23(12):4257-66. doi:
10.1128/MCB.23.12.4257-4266.2003.

Cysteine 64 of Ref-1 is not essential for redox regulation of AP-1 DNA binding.

Ordway JM(1), Eberhart D, Curran T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research 
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Ref-1 participates in DNA repair as well as in redox regulation of transcription 
factor function. The redox function of Ref-1 involves reduction of oxidized 
cysteine residues within the DNA binding domains of several transcription 
factors, including Fos and Jun. Reduction of these residues is required for DNA 
binding, providing a redox-dependent mechanism for regulation of target gene 
expression. Previous in vitro studies implicated cysteine 65 of human Ref-1 
(cysteine 64 of mouse Ref-1) as the redox catalytic site. We analyzed the in 
vivo role of cysteine 64 in redox regulation of AP-1 activity by introducing a 
cysteine-to-alanine point mutation into the endogenous mouse Ref-1 gene 
(ref-1(C64A)). Unlike Ref-1 null mice, which die very early in embryonic 
development, homozygous ref-1(C64A) mice are viable, they survive to normal life 
expectancy, and they display no overt abnormal phenotype. Although Ref-1 
provides the major AP-1-reducing activity in murine cells, ref-1(C64A) cells 
retain normal levels of endogenous AP-1 DNA binding activity in vivo as well as 
normal Fos- and Jun-reducing activity in vitro. These results demonstrate that 
Ref-1 cysteine 64/65 is not required for redox regulation of AP-1 DNA binding in 
vivo, and they challenge previous hypotheses regarding the mechanism by which 
Ref-1 regulates the redox-dependent activity of specific transcription factors.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.23.12.4257-4266.2003
PMCID: PMC156143
PMID: 12773568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Radiology. 2003 Jun;227(3):647-56. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2273020441.

Cost-effectiveness targets for multi-detector row CT angiography in the work-up 
of patients with intermittent claudication.

Visser K(1), Kock MC, Kuntz KM, Donaldson MC, Gazelle GS, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Program for the Assessment of Radiological Technology, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Dr Molewaterplein 50, Rm Ee21-40B, 3015GE Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
k.visser@erasmusmc.nl

PURPOSE: To determine the costs, sensitivity for detection of significant 
stenoses, and proportion of equivocal multi-detector row computed tomographic 
(CT) angiography results in the work-up of patients with intermittent 
claudication that would make this imaging examination cost-effective compared 
with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) angiography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision model was used to compare the societal 
cost-effectiveness of a new imaging modality with that of gadolinium-enhanced MR 
angiography. Main outcome measures were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
lifetime costs. By using threshold analysis of a given willingness to pay per 
QALY, target values for costs, sensitivity for detection of significant 
stenoses, and proportion of cases requiring additional work-up with 
intraarterial digital subtraction angiography owing to equivocal results of the 
new modality were determined. The base case evaluated was that of 60-year-old 
men with severe intermittent claudication and assumed an incremental 
cost-effectiveness threshold of 100,000 US dollars per QALY.
RESULTS: If treatment were limited to angioplasty, a new imaging modality would 
be cost-effective if the costs were 300 US dollars and the sensitivity was 85%, 
even if up to 35% of patients needed additional work-up. When both angioplasty 
and bypass surgery were considered as treatment options, a new imaging modality 
was cost-effective if the costs were 300 US dollars, the sensitivity was higher 
than 94%, and 20% of patients required additional work-up.
CONCLUSION: Multi-detector row CT angiography, as compared with currently used 
imaging modalities such as MR angiography, has the potential to be 
cost-effective in the evaluation of patients with intermittent claudication.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2273020441
PMID: 12773672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Tob Control. 2003 Jun;12(2):124-32. doi: 10.1136/tc.12.2.124.

Estimating the health consequences of replacing cigarettes with nicotine 
inhalers.

Sumner W 2nd(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Medical Sciences, Box 8005, 660 
South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. wsumner@im.wustl.edu

BACKGROUND: A fast acting, clean nicotine delivery system might substantially 
displace cigarettes. Public health consequences would depend on the subsequent 
prevalence of nicotine use, hazards of delivery systems, and intrinsic hazards 
of nicotine.
METHODS: A spreadsheet program, DEMANDS, estimates differences in expected 
mortality, adjusted for nicotine delivery system features and prevalence of 
nicotine use, by extending the data and methods of the SAMMEC 3 software from 
the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The user estimates disease 
risks attributable to nicotine, other smoke components, and risk factors that 
coexist with smoking. The public health consequences of a widely used clean 
nicotine inhaler replacing cigarettes were compared to historical observations 
and public health goals, using four different risk attribution scenarios and 
nicotine use prevalence from 0-100%.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in years of potential life before age 85 (YPL85).
RESULTS: If nicotine accounts for less than a third of smokers' excess risk of 
SAMMEC diseases, as it most likely does, then even with very widespread use of 
clean nicotine DEMANDS predicts public health gains, relative to current tobacco 
use. Public health benefits accruing from a widely used clean nicotine inhaler 
probably equal or exceed the benefits of achieving Healthy People 2010 goals.
CONCLUSIONS: Clean nicotine inhalers might improve public health as much as any 
feasible tobacco control effort. Although the relevant risk estimates are 
somewhat uncertain, partial nicotine deregulation deserves consideration as part 
of a broad tobacco control policy.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.12.2.124
PMCID: PMC1747720
PMID: 12773720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2003 Apr;64(2):87-92.

Mechanisms of premature ovarian failure.

Santoro N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
1300 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, New York 10461, USA. glicktoro@aol.com

The median age at menopause in Western populations of women is approximately 51 
years. While very late (i.e., after 54 years) menopause is exceedingly uncommon, 
a sizeable minority of women experience cessation of ovarian function at or 
prior to age 45. By convention, menopause that occurs at ages 40-45 is 
considered "early" and occurs in about 5% of women. Premature ovarian failure 
(POF) is reserved for the approximately 1% of women who experience 
hypergonadotropic amenorrhea prior to age 40 years. POF represents the end stage 
of a variety of disorders that result in the loss of ovarian follicles. 
Depending upon the age at diagnosis, the probability of a genetic, autoimmune, 
or idiopathic cause will be more or less likely. Two functioning X chromosomes 
appear necessary for normal ovarian function. The most obvious genetic cause of 
POF is Turner Syndrome, in which a complete or near-complete loss of the second 
X chromosome occurs. Turner Syndrome typically results in the most severe and 
irreversible POF, often clinically evident prior to menarche. Typically, in 
Turner Syndrome, menopause precedes menarche, and there is no evidence of 
ovarian function. However, cases with multiple tissues diagnosed as 45, X have 
been reported to result in ovarian function and even pregnancy. It is likely 
that mitigating factors, perhaps autosomal, can modify this most severe and 
irreversible cause of ovarian failure. Lesser degrees of ovarian failure have 
also been attributed to partial X chromosome deletions and milder degrees of X 
chromosome mosaicism. Fragile X syndrome is another example of mild POF that can 
be linked to disorders of the X chromosome. Other genetic defects are believed 
to cause POF, yet their prevalence has been difficult to determine. The 
localization of the gene for the blepharophimosis/ptosis/POF Syndrome has been 
recently reported, yet this finding has not been seen commonly in POF. Other 
genetic syndromes including POF await elucidation. Many transgenic "knock-out" 
animals have been created with deficient ovarian function. Most interesting 
along these lines is the heterozygous FSH receptor knock-out, which exhibits a 
reduced follicle reserve and early ovarian depletion. Application of this 
knowledge and translation of these transgenic experiments into elucidation of 
clinical disease has been difficult, but represents an area of tremendous 
potential progress in the understanding of the pathogenesis of POF. Another 
approach to the genetics of POF has been to examine the genome of affected and 
unaffected individuals. The genetics appear to differ greatly depending upon the 
timing of the expression of the POF. For example, women with early menopause are 
more likely to possess the PVUII polymorphic allele for estrogen receptor alpha. 
Whether or not this polymorph is more common in women with earlier menopause, 
i.e., POF, is unclear. Pedigree data indicate that early menopause and premature 
menopause sort similarly within families. The only difference between women with 
true POF and those with early menopause may be in the timing of the expression 
of the syndrome, and not in the genetics. Population genetic approaches 
analyzing affected and unaffected individuals are underway in several research 
centers and represent another area of progress. Immune and other, idiopathic 
causes of POF await further clarification. It is clear that this is an area of 
great research potential. Understanding how ovaries fail may assist women with 
this disorder by facilitating the development of novel therapies. Additionally, 
such information will provide important clues about optimizing ovarian function 
in individuals without POF who are seeking extension of their reproductive life 
spans or fertility enhancement by other means.

PMID: 12773939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Perinatol. 2003 Jun;23(4):333-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.jp.7210903.

Detoxifying death in the neonate: in search of meaningfulness at the end of 
life.

Milstein JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatalogy, Department of Pediatrics, University of California, 
Davis 95616, USA.

At the end of life, when curative measures have failed to conquer the terminal 
nature of a disease, it is imperative to introduce healing measures that deal 
with the human suffering associated with illness. When dealing with critically 
ill neonates with lethal conditions, it may be necessary to institute healing 
measures at the beginning of life. In such cases, healing measures must 
incorporate customary palliative measures but should not be limited to them. The 
purpose of this paper is to describe two families' approaches to palliation at 
the end of life in their newborn infants with Trisomy 18, a genetic abnormality 
usually associated with a markedly decreased life expectancy. We shall consider 
the concepts of interference versus intervention as we examine subtle medical 
differences between the two cases. We will address medical, legal, and ethical 
issues in each case, but special attention will be given to the provision of 
compassionate care. People face physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual 
challenges as they go through life. The families' approaches with their infants 
at the end of their lives may support the premise that the latter two 
challenges, emotional and spiritual, confront us the most at the end. 
Encouraging families to engage with their dying infants helps detoxify the 
experience and make it more meaningful.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jp.7210903
PMID: 12774144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Mil Med. 2003 May;168(5):414-8.

Mortality and postcombat disorders: U.K. veterans of the Boer War and World War 
I.

Jones E(1), Vermaas RH, Beech C, Palmer I, Hyams K, Wessely S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas's School 
of Medicine, 103 Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AZ, United Kingdom.

This study seeks to investigate the mortality rates of U.K. servicemen with 
postcombat syndromes following the Boer War and World War I. Random samples of 
veterans awarded war pensions for either disordered action of the heart (DAH) or 
neurasthenia/shellshock were compared with gunshot wounded ex-servicemen as 
controls. The destruction of pension records has led to reliance on groups of 
the longest lived veterans, which diminishes their representative qualities. 
Study groups were matched by rank and level of disability. With the exception of 
DAH cases in World War I, no statistically significant difference in mortality 
rates was found using Cox proportional hazards. The same DAH subjects were then 
compared with gunshot wound controls whose disability had been assessed 20% 
higher, and no statistically significant difference was seen. The reason why 
World War I veterans with DAH had a reduced life expectancy remains unclear, 
although it is possible that physician bias in assessment and the termination by 
the Ministry of Pensions of awards granted to healthy cases may have been 
factors. Postcombat disorders suffered by U.K. servicemen after the Boer War and 
World War I were not generally associated with an increased mortality.

PMID: 12775180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Phys Ther. 2003 Jun;83(6):544-51.

Relationship of knee extension force to independence in sit-to-stand performance 
in patients receiving acute rehabilitation.

Eriksrud O(1), Bohannon RW.

Author information:
(1)Wilton Physical Therapy, Wilton, Conn, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The ability to rise from a chair is important for 
independence in everyday life. This study was conducted to determine to what 
extent knee extension force (KEF) could explain independence in sit-to-stand 
(STS) performance from a standard chair.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This was a descriptive and correlational study of patients 
receiving acute rehabilitation (N=107). Measurements of KEF of both lower 
extremities were obtained using manual muscle testing (MMT) and hand-held 
dynamometers (HHDs). The HHD measurements were normalized based on body weight 
and age- and sex-specific reference values. Measurements of the ability to stand 
without using the upper extremities (STS [without hands]) and to stand using the 
upper extremities (STS [with hands]) were correlated with the force 
measurements.
RESULTS: The correlations (r) of the KEF measurements with STS success ranged 
from.652 to.708 for STS (without hands) and from.545 to.638 for STS (with 
hands). Body weight added to the explanation of STS (without hands) (R=.662) and 
STS (with hands) (R=.584) provided by KEF measured by HHD. The receiver 
operating characteristic curves showed that HHD (weight normalized) was the most 
sensitive and specific measure for explaining independence in STS.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Manual and dynamometric measurements of KEF are 
related to independence in STS. Measurements of KEF quantified with a 
dynamometer and normalized against body weight provided the most valid, 
specific, and sensitive cutoff point for explaining STS independence.

PMID: 12775200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2003 Jun;57(6):440-3. doi:
10.1136/jech.57.6.440.

Socioeconomic differences in attitudes and beliefs about healthy lifestyles.

Wardle J(1), Steptoe A.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK, Health Behaviour Unit, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, University College London, UK. j.wardle@ucl.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: s: The factors underlying socioeconomic status differences in 
smoking, leisure time physical activity, and dietary choice are poorly 
understood. This study investigated attitudes and beliefs that might underlie 
behavioural choices, including health locus of control, future salience, 
subjective life expectancy, and health consciousness, in a nationally 
representative sample.
DESIGN: Data were collected as part of the monthly Omnibus survey of the Office 
of National Statistics in Britain.
PARTICIPANTS: A stratified, probability sample of 2728 households was selected 
by random sampling of addresses. One adult from each household was interviewed.
MAIN RESULTS: Higher SES respondents were less likely to smoke and more likely 
to exercise and eat fruit and vegetables daily. Lower SES was associated with 
less health consciousness (thinking about things to do to keep healthy), 
stronger beliefs in the influence of chance on health, less thinking about the 
future, and lower life expectancies. These attitudinal factors were in turn 
associated with unhealthy behavioural choices, independently of age, sex, and 
self rated health.
CONCLUSIONS: Socioeconomic differences in healthy lifestyles are associated with 
differences in attitudes to health that may themselves arise through variations 
in life opportunities and exposure to material hardship and ill health over the 
life course.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.57.6.440
PMCID: PMC1732468
PMID: 12775791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Jun;41(6):1155-62. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00346-9.

A randomized study of two long-course prednisolone regimens for nephrotic 
syndrome in children.

Hiraoka M(1), Tsukahara H, Matsubara K, Tsurusawa M, Takeda N, Haruki S, Hayashi 
S, Ohta K, Momoi T, Ohshima Y, Suganuma N, Mayumi M; West Japan Cooperative 
Study Group of Kidney Disease in Children.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Fukui Medical University School of Medicine, Fukui, 
Japan. hiraoka@fmsrsa.fukui-med.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Long-course prednisolone regimens have been shown to be more 
effective than short-course regimens in sustaining remission of nephrotic 
syndrome in children. However, the most beneficial approach among the 
long-course regimens remains unknown.
METHODS: Seventy-three children with new-onset nephrotic syndrome were allocated 
at random to the two long-course regimens and followed up for 2 years. Group A 
was administered prednisolone at a daily dose of 60 mg/m2 for 6 weeks, followed 
by an alternate-day dose of 40 mg/m2 for 6 weeks (the long daily regimen). Group 
B was administered the same daily dose for 4 weeks, followed by an alternate-day 
dose of 60 mg/m2 for 4 weeks, and doses were tapered by 10 mg/m2 every 4 weeks 
(the long alternate-day regimen).
RESULTS: Group B had a lower incidence of corticosteroid toxicities than group A 
during the initial treatment. Kaplan-Meier analysis of the sustained remission 
rate of the two treatment groups showed a marginally significant difference (P = 
0.069) and showed a significant difference when patients were stratified for age 
of disease onset (P = 0.048). In a subgroup of younger children (<4 years at 
onset), group B had a greater rate of sustained remission (P < 0.01) and fewer 
children with frequent relapses (P < 0.05) than group A, whereas in older 
children (> or =4 years at onset), both groups had similar good sustained 
remission rates.
CONCLUSION: These findings collectively indicate that the long alternate-day 
regimen may be more beneficial, with less corticosteroid toxicities, than the 
long daily regimen, and children with younger age at disease onset may be 
susceptible to relapse and especially benefit from the long alternate-day 
regimen for sustaining remission of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00346-9
PMID: 12776266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Harv Health Lett. 2003 Mar;28(5):7.

Retirement benefits.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12777222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Br J Psychiatry. 2003 Jun;182:505-8. doi: 10.1192/bjp.182.6.505.

Modelling the impact of clozapine on suicide in patients with 
treatment-resistant schizophrenia in the UK.

Duggan A(1), Warner J, Knapp M, Kerwin R.

Author information:
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2003 Nov;183:460.

BACKGROUND: Schizophrenia is a major cause of suicide, and symptoms 
characteristic of treatment-resistant disease are strong risk factors. Clozapine 
reduces symptoms in 60% of such patients and significantly decreases the risk of 
suicide.
AIMS: To model the impact of increased clozapine prescribing on lives saved and 
resource utilisation.
METHOD: A model was built to compare current levels of clozapine prescribing 
with a scenario in which all suitable patients with treatment-resistant 
schizophrenia received clozapine.
RESULTS: It was estimated that an average of 53 lives could be saved in the UK 
each year. If clozapine is cost-neutral, the cost per life-year saved is pound 
5108. If clozapine achieves a 10% reduction in annual support costs, the net 
saving is pound 8.7 million per annum. An average of 167 acute beds would be 
freed each year.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of clozapine in treatment-resistant schizophrenia saves 
lives, frees resources and is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.182.6.505
PMID: 12777341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;32(3):346-54. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg072.

Mortality by education in German speaking Switzerland, 1990-1997: results from 
the Swiss National Cohort.

Bopp M(1), Minder CE; Swiss National Cohort.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Sumatraastrasse 30, CH-8006 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;32(3):355-6.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this paper is to show for the first time mortality 
differentials by level of education for Swiss men and women. This work is of 
interest to public health efforts in Switzerland as well as for co-operative 
international research into the determinants of socioeconomic differentials in 
health and mortality.
METHODS: This study is based on a longitudinal data set from the Swiss National 
Cohort, currently incorporating a probabilistic record linkage of the 1990 Swiss 
census, and all subsequent deaths until the end of 1997. The study population 
covers all Swiss nationals aged >/=25 years living in German speaking 
Switzerland, with 19.7 million person-years and 296 929 deaths observed. 
Educational gradients were analysed using standardized mortality ratios, 
multiple logistic regression, and the Relative Index of Inequality (RII).
RESULTS: There were sizeable gradients in mortality by education for all age 
groups and both sexes. The mortality odds ratio decreased by 7.2% (95% CI: 
7.0-7.5%) per additional year of education for men, and by 6.0% (95% CI: 
5.6-6.3%) for women. In men, we found a steady decrease of the gradient from 
13.1% (95% CI: 11.9-14.4%) in the age group 25-39 to 4.5% (95% CI: 4.0-5.0%) in 
the age group >/=75 years. For women in the age groups under 65 the gradients 
were smaller; over the age of 40 there was no decrease with increasing age. 
These results were fairly insensitive to variations in the parameters of record 
linkage.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a comparatively low overall mortality, Swiss men in the 
1990s show larger relative gradients in mortality by education than men in other 
European countries in the 1980s, with the possible exception of younger men in 
Italy. In Switzerland there is a sizeable potential for further increasing 
overall life expectancy by reducing the mortality of those with a lower 
educational level. The results presented contribute to a reliable assessment of 
socioeconomic mortality differentials in Europe.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg072
PMID: 12777418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;32(3):367-74. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg073.

Income and risk of ischaemic heart disease in men and women in a Nordic welfare 
country.

Andersen I(1), Osler M, Petersen L, Grønbaek M, Prescott E.

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Centre for Prospective Population Studies, Danish Epidemiology 
Science Centre at the Institute of Preventive Medicine, H:S Kommunehospitalet, 
Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. ia@ipm.hosp.dk

BACKGROUND: The inverse relation between ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and 
income is well known among men, but it remains to be clarified whether the 
relationship between social gradient and IHD is similar for men and women. The 
present study explores the associations between income and IHD in men and women 
in a Nordic country.
METHODS: We used data from two prospective population studies conducted in 
Copenhagen. A total of 22 782 subjects, 54% women, with initial examination 
between 1964 and 1992 were followed until 1996 for hospital admission or death 
from IHD. We performed survival analyses, taking traditional cardiovascular risk 
factors into account, and estimated IHD-free life expectancy by household income 
in men and women.
RESULTS: During follow-up, 1803 men and 1258 women experienced an event of IHD 
(21% fatal). The hazards by deciles of income showed a non-linear graded inverse 
effect of income, with a large group of middle-income in which income was not 
associated with risk of IHD. The hazard ratio for highest versus lowest deciles 
was 0.53 (95% CI: 0.44-0.65). The association was attenuated by adjustment for 
risk factors, but remained statistically significant. The associations were 
similar for both sexes. Median IHD-free life expectancy for low-income versus 
high-income groups was reduced by 9.4 and 7.0 years in men and women, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of household income on risk of IHD was graded and 
similar for men and women. The difference between high and low income, regarding 
IHD-free life expectancy, was considerable.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg073
PMID: 12777421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;32(3):437-46. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg085.

The evolving pattern of avoidable mortality in Russia.

Andreev EM(1), Nolte E, Shkolnikov VM, Varavikova E, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Analysis and Prognosis of Population Mortality, Centre of 
Demography and Human Ecology, Institute of Economic Forecasting, Russian Academy 
of Sciences, 47 Nakhimovsky Prospect, 117418 Moscow, Russian Federation.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;32(3):447-8.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy at birth in Russia is over 12 years less than in 
western Europe. This study explores the possible role of medical care in 
explaining this gap by examining the evolving pattern of mortality amenable to 
timely and effective medical care in Russia compared with Estonia, Latvia, and 
Lithuania, and the UK.
METHODS: Analysis of standardized death rates from causes amenable to health 
care (treatable) or inter-sectoral health policies (preventable) in all regions 
and decomposition of differences in life expectancy between Russia and the UK by 
age, sex, and cause of death for the period 1965-1999/2000.
RESULTS: Death rates from treatable causes remained stable between the mid-1960s 
and mid-1980s in Russia and the Baltic republics while steadily falling in the 
UK to less than half the rate in Russia. In the 1990s, rates increased in the 
former Soviet republics, reaching a peak in 1994 but reversing again in Russia 
in 1998. Deaths from causes amenable to inter-sectoral health interventions were 
higher in the UK in 1965 than in the Soviet Union but subsequently fell steadily 
while they increased in the East. Between 1965 and 1999, the male life 
expectancy gap between Russia and the UK rose from 3.6 to 15.1 years (women: 1.6 
and 7.4 years). Treatable causes became an increasingly important contributor to 
this gap, accounting for almost 3 years by the end of the 1990s in men and 2 
years in women. In Russia, elimination of treatable causes of death would have 
increased life expectancy by 2.9 years in men in 1995/99 compared with 1.2 years 
in the UK (women: 3.3 and 1.8 years), suggesting that, were the outcomes of 
health care achieved in the UK to be obtained in Russia, life expectancy for men 
might improve by about 1.7 years and for women by about 1.5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the Soviet health care system has failed 
to match the achievements of the West over the past three decades, highlighting 
the need to establish a system that provides effective and equitable care for 
the Russian population.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg085
PMID: 12777433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;14(3):132-8. doi: 
10.1097/00055735-200306000-00004.

Cost-effectiveness of ocular interventions.

Busbee BG(1), Brown GC, Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Retina Vascular Unit, 
Cataract and Primary Eye Care Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Jefferson Medical 
College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. bgbusbee@yahoo.com

The cost-effectiveness of ophthalmic interventions has become increasingly 
important as the US health care budget continues to grow. During the past two 
decades, a methodology rooted in utility analysis has provided a way to 
objectively assess the value of an intervention for a specific disease. 
Specifically within the field of ophthalmology, there is a growing body of 
literature on utility analysis using patient preference-based outcomes for 
ophthalmic disease. This has led the way to combining costs with utility values 
to derive a cost-utility analysis, or cost-effectiveness, for a given ophthalmic 
procedure. This article outlines this methodology, provides a reference-case 
example for initial cataract surgery, and describes a comparative study of the 
value associated with interventions within the field of ophthalmology and across 
other medical specialties.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-200306000-00004
PMID: 12777931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Curr Opin Oncol. 2003 May;15(3):188-96. doi:
10.1097/00001622-200305000-00002.

The role of gamma knife radiosurgery in the treatment of primary and metastatic 
brain tumors.

Gerosa M(1), Nicolato A, Foroni R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital, Piazzale Stefani 1, 37126 
Verona, Italy. massimo.gerosa@univr.it

With the widespread diffusion of stereotactic radiosurgical procedures, GKR 
treatments have gained considerable momentum as a major therapeutic option for 
patients harboring primary or metastatic brain tumors. Present results in high 
grade gliomas indicate a potential palliative role of this technique. The 
overall low radiosensitivity of these oncotypes and their infiltrative 
nature-with the resulting problems in properly defining the tumor target-are 
still a major obstacle to further development of the approach. In this regard, 
useful contributions are expected from advances in molecular neurobiology and 
functional neuroimaging as shown by preliminary investigations with MR 
spectroscopy. Surgery maintains a dominant role in the therapeutic armamentarium 
for low grade gliomas. However, in unfavorable cases (unresectable tumors, 
recurrences), GKR seems to be an effective alternative to conventional 
radiochemotherapy. In grade 2 astrocytomas and specifically in grade 1 pilocytic 
forms, short-to-mid-term reported studies have documented encouraging 70 to 93% 
local tumor control rates, with minimal cerebral toxicity. Finally, during the 
last decade, GKR has become a primary treatment choice for patients harboring 
small-to-medium-size brain metastases, with reasonable life expectancy and no 
