impending intracranial hypertension. Focal tumor responses are consistently 
elevated, even in the most radioresistant oncotypes (melanoma, renal carcinoma); 
median and actuarial survival rates are far better than with conventional 
radiation treatments and are comparable to those observed in accurately selected 
surgical-radiation series.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-200305000-00002
PMID: 12778010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. EBRI Issue Brief. 2003 Feb;(254):1-25.

Retiree health benefits: savings needed to fund health care in retirement.

Fronstin P, Salisbury D.

PMID: 12778631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Lancet. 2003 May 24;361(9371):1801-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13405-8.

Haemophilias A and B.

Bolton-Maggs PH(1), Pasi KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Liverpool Children's Hospital, Liverpool, 
UK. p.h.boltonmaggs@liv.ac.uk <p.h.boltonmaggs@liv.ac.uk>

The haemophilias are inherited disorders in which one of the coagulation factors 
is deficient. Although deficiencies of factor VIII (haemophilia A) and factor IX 
(haemophilia B) are well recognised, von Willebrand's disease is much more 
common. Rare defects can occur in any of the coagulation factors. In the past, 
men with haemophilia were likely to die in their youth. With advances in 
diagnosis, and especially with development of safe and effective treatment, 
affected individuals can now look forward to a normal life expectancy. 
Complications of the disorder, particularly the development of antibodies that 
make treatment ineffective, and of treatment, such as transfusion-transmitted 
infections, have taken a severe toll on these patients. The future holds the 
realistic possibility of gene therapy. However, we must not forget that 
haemophilia is a worldwide disorder that requires significant economic resources 
not available for the majority.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13405-8
PMID: 12781551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Am J Cardiol. 2003 May 22;91(10A):22G-27G. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(03)00229-7.

How cost-effective are new preventive strategies for cardiovascular disease?

Probstfield JL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle 98109-1024, USA. 
jeffp@crab.org

Costs of providing a particular medical service can be measured, but it is more 
difficult to assess whether the service provides good value for the money spent. 
Rigorous trials have demonstrated the health benefits connected with 
interventions for treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and 
in-depth analyses of the costs associated with many of those interventions have 
been performed. Careful use of terminology clearly differentiating among 
cost-minimization (relative costs of proved equivalent therapeutics), 
cost-effectiveness (lives saved or years of life added), and cost-benefit (total 
net effect in monetary terms) analyses is warranted. Although trials commonly 
assess clinical effectiveness as reductions in mortality or CVD-specific 
outcomes, improvement in quality of life may be equally important and is 
expressed in quality-adjusted life-years. Comparisons between therapies can be 
assessed as a cost-effectiveness ratio. Extensive cost-effectiveness studies 
have been conducted on many important cardiovascular therapies: (1) 
beta-blockers and diuretics for multiple CVD outcomes, mortality, and prevention 
of recurrent myocardial infarction (MI); (2) statins for both primary and 
secondary prevention of CVD; (3) enalapril for prevention and treatment of 
congestive heart failure; (4) tissue plasminogen activator treatment of acute 
MI; (5) coronary artery bypass graft for left main, single-, and 2-vessel 
coronary artery disease, or severe angina; (6) physician counseling for smoking; 
and (7) radiofrequency ablation therapy for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. 
Therapies considered economically attractive include (1) secondary prevention 
with statins in hyperlipidemia, (2) smoking cessation programs, (3) primary 
prevention in treatment of high blood pressure with diuretics and beta-blockers, 
(4) primary prevention with regular exercise programs, (5) secondary prevention 
with cardiac rehabilitation, and (6) postinfarction treatment with beta-blockers 
and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. A recent cost-minimization 
analysis has been performed showing aspirin to be a "best buy" therapy for 
secondary prevention of CVD. The Ongoing Telmisartan Alone and in Combination 
with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial (ONTARGET) and Telmisartan Randomized 
Assessment Study in ACE-I Intolerant Patients with Cardiovascular Disease 
(TRANSCEND) program provide potential opportunities for both cost-minimization 
and cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(03)00229-7
PMID: 12781905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003 Jun;35(6):897-900. doi: 
10.1249/01.MSS.0000069754.07541.D2.

Gamma loop dysfunction in quadriceps on the contralateral side in patients with 
ruptured ACL.

Konishi Y(1), Konishi H, Fukubayashi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Science, University 
of Tokyo, Japan. yuk1@fb.freeserve.ne.jp

PURPOSE: The aim of our study was to test for any neurophysiological abnormality 
in the gamma loop in the quadriceps femoris muscle on the uninjured side of 
patients with unilateral rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
METHODS: Maximal voluntary contraction of knee extension and integrated 
electromyography (I-EMG) of the vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and rectus 
femoris were measured in the uninjured limb of 13 patients with unilateral ACL 
rupture and 10 normal subjects, before and after 20-min vibration stimulation 
applied to the infrapatellar tendon.
RESULTS: The mean percentage changes of maximal voluntary contraction and I-EMG 
in quadriceps femoris of the uninjured side of patients with ACL rupture were 
significantly different from those of the control group. Maximal voluntary 
contraction and I-EMG after prolonged vibration stimulation did not decrease as 
much as those of the control group even though the same protocol of vibration 
stimulation was applied.
CONCLUSION: The abnormal response to prolonged vibration stimulation could 
represent abnormal gamma loop in the quadriceps femoris muscle of the uninjured 
side in patients with ACL rupture since the normal response of maximal voluntary 
contraction and I-EMG to prolonged vibration stimulation could not be evoked 
without normal function of the gamma loop.

DOI: 10.1249/01.MSS.0000069754.07541.D2
PMID: 12783035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2003 Jun;4(6):875-87. doi:
10.1517/14656566.4.6.875.

Pharmacotherapy of hormone refractory prostate cancer: new developments and 
challenges.

Rosenbaum E(1), Carducci MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Room 1M-89, Cancer Research Building, Sidney 
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, 1650 Orleans Street 
Baltimore, Maryland 21231, MD 410-502-9746, USA.

Hormone refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) remains a challenge in the management 
of prostate cancer patients. With the widespread use of PSA (prostate specific 
antigen), recurrent disease after local treatment for localised prostate cancer 
is usually diagnosed long before evidence of metastatic disease. In many cases, 
hormonal manipulations are started at the time of biochemical relapse and 
therefore, patients become 'hormone refractory' earlier in the course of their 
disease, frequently with a good performance status, often with no evidence of 
metastatic disease, and they still face a considerably long life expectancy. 
Despite these changes, the need for more options in the treatment of HRPC is 
obvious. The pharmacological treatments that are in use and those that are under 
investigation for this group of patients will be discussed and include: 
cytotoxic agents including the microtubule inhibitors, alone and in combination 
with other conventional or experimental therapies such as calcitriol or 
thalidomide; treatment with epothilone analogues; endothelin receptor 
antagonists; palliative therapy with bisphosphonates, bone-targeted 
radiopharmaceuticals and other developing treatments such as vaccines, gene 
therapies and monoclonal antibodies.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.4.6.875
PMID: 12783585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Int J Sports Med. 2003 May;24(4):277-84. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-39500.

Muscle elastic properties during wrist flexion and extension in healthy 
sedentary subjects and volley-ball players.

Cornu C(1), Maïsetti O, Ledoux I.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Myologie, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris Cedex 13, 
France. c.cornu@myologie.chups.jussieu.fr

Erratum in
    Int J Sports Med. 2003 Aug;24(6):470. Maïetti, O [corrected to Maïsetti, O].

The aim of this study was to determine the effects of gender and chronic 
hyperactivity (training) on musculo-tendinous stiffness and joint flexibility 
and to examine in vivo whether those stiffness parameters were correlated. Thus, 
maximal isometric voluntary contraction, series elastic stiffness during wrist 
flexion and wrist extension, and wrist flexibility were investigated in healthy 
sedentary subjects and in women volley-ball players. Maximal isometric 
contraction and flexibility were measured classically with specific ergometers. 
Moreover, muscle stiffness measurements were performed thanks to the use of 
quick-release movements of the wrist, which had previously been maintained in 
isometric contraction, allowing the calculation of a musculo-tendinous stiffness 
index. Despite significant differences in maximal voluntary contraction between 
wrist flexors and wrist extensors for each of the groups tested and between men 
and women, no significant gender, function or training effects were found upon 
musculo-tendinous stiffness indices. Flexibility assessments in both women 
groups demonstrated that active to passive ratios for wrist flexion remain 
unchanged whereas a significant training-induced increase for wrist extension 
was observed. Moreover, no significant relationship between women active joint 
flexibility and musculo-tendinous stiffness indices was found (r(2): 0.0004 - 
0.0319, p > 0.05) whatever the muscle function tested. Collectively, the present 
results suggest that neural factors rather than morphological changes (i. e. 
muscle architecture and fiber composition) may explain predominantly the 
functional consequences observed in wrist extension associated with volley-ball 
training. Moreover, both musculo-tendinous stiffness and joint flexibility give 
different information about wrist functional status.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-39500
PMID: 12784170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Clin Lab Anal. 2003;17(4):108-12. doi: 10.1002/jcla.10082.

Multiplex PCR: rapid DNA cycling in a conventional thermal cycler.

Markoulatos P(1), Siafakas N, Katsorchis T, Moncany M.

Author information:
(1)Virology Department, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece. 
markoulatos@mail.pasteur.fr

Multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a variant of PCR in which two or 
more target sequences are simultaneously amplified in the same reaction. In the 
present study we investigated the limits to which the duration of multiplex PCR 
steps can be shortened using the thermal cycler Gene Amp PCR system 9600 (Perkin 
Elmer, Oak Brook, IL). The present multiplex PCR assay simultaneously detects 
five different herpes viruses (HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV, CMV, and EBV) and assesses 
sample suitability in a single amplification round of 40 cycles. It appears that 
when six target sequences are simultaneously amplified in multiplex PCR, 
extension time is a critical parameter. Using a PCR protocol of 0 sec at 95 
degrees C, 0 sec at 60 degrees C, and 0 sec at 74 degrees C with Platinum Taq 
DNA polymerase (Life Technologies, Gaithersburg, MD), we were able to reduce the 
total cycling time of the multiplex PCR assay to as little as 55 min, without 
affecting the yield of PCR products or the specificity of the assay. It may be 
necessary to optimize each specific apparatus and template, but any such 
optimization would be trivial.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcla.10082
PMCID: PMC6807839
PMID: 12784258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Ital Heart J. 2003 Mar;4(3):152-62.

Cardiac-bio-assists: biological approaches to support or repair cardiac muscle.

Carraro U(1), Rigatelli G.

Author information:
(1)CNR Institute of Neuroscience, Unit for Neuromuscular Biology and 
Pathophysiology, Laboratory of Applied Myology, Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Padua Medical School, Padua, Italy. ugo.carraro@unipd.it

In contrast to those of other cardiac diseases, the morbility and morbidity of 
congestive cardiac insufficiency are not on the decrease, in spite of 
significant progress in pharmacological treatments and due to the increased life 
expectancy of the population. Cardiac transplant is the therapy of choice when 
cardiac failure becomes pharmacologically intractable, but all over the 
developed world (not to mention the situation in the underdeveloped countries) 
the number of heart transplants has reached the limit set by the availability of 
donor organs. Sooner or later xenotransplants could solve this problem, but even 
if our most optimistic hopes regarding their development and reliability are 
met, xenotransplants would still carry the risk of anthropozoonotic viral 
infections. Finally, as suggested in a recent overview, the way to the 
long-lasting clinical use of mechanical circulatory support is a long and 
winding road. Other options are related to tissue or cell cardiac bioassistance. 
Cardiac-bio-assists are biological approaches to the remedy of progressive 
cardiac failure based on autologous or heterologous tissue or cell 
transplantation. Some of the work hypotheses are in pre-clinical evaluation 
(skeletal muscle ventricle), others are under preliminary (cardiomyoplasty, 
myocardium reduction, implants of myoblasts derived from skeletal muscle 
satellite cells and implants of embryonic or adult stem cell-derived 
myocardiocytes, cellular cardiomyoplasty) or advanced clinical testing (dynamic 
aortomyoplasty and dynamic cardiomyoplasty). Dynamic cardiomyoplasty is a 
surgical procedure which could support myocardial function when cardiac 
insufficiency would become pharmacologically intractable in the mid term. In 
this procedure a nonessential muscle, the latissimus dorsi (LD), is diverted 
from its normal role, transferred into the chest, wrapped around the heart (LD 
wrap), conditioned to fatigue and activated during systole to provide cardiac 
assistance. The mechanisms of its action are discussed and the risk of 
myodystrophic lesions of the LD wrap which could reduce the work capability of 
the pericardial muscle prosthesis remains. We are now addressing some of these 
issues by means of clinical research on the group of Italian patients of demand 
dynamic cardiomyoplasty, and by means of animal experiments aimed at the 
development and testing of new surgical, clinical and biotechnological 
approaches. In particular, we will discuss whether the increase in the muscle 
mass of the distal part of the transposed LD is desirable and feasible or if it 
is mandatory.

PMID: 12784741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Ital Heart J Suppl. 2003 Apr;4(4):306-18.

[Why are cardiologists to be concerned about obliterating arterial disease of 
the lower leg?].

[Article in Italian]

Fisicaro M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Cardiovascolare Azienda per i Servizi Sanitari ASS 1 Via del Farneto, 
3 34100 Trieste. maurizio.fisicaro@ass1.sanita.fvg.it

Peripheral arterial disease, which is caused by atherosclerotic stenosis or 
occlusion of the leg arteries, is an important manifestation of systemic 
atherosclerosis. The age-adjusted prevalence of symptomatic and asymptomatic 
peripheral arterial disease is approximately 12% in the general population. The 
overall prevalence and incidence of the disease is likely to increase with the 
aging of the population. Peripheral arterial disease is a relatively benign 
condition in terms of local disease. Five years after the diagnosis, 75% of the 
patients remain clinically stable. On the contrary, life expectancy, even in the 
absence of any history of myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke, has 
decreased by 10 years. These patients have approximately the same relative risk 
of death from cardiovascular causes as do patients with history of coronary or 
cerebrovascular disease. Moreover, the severity of peripheral arterial disease 
is closely associated with the risk of myocardial infarction and death from 
vascular disease. The lower the ankle-brachial index, the greater the risk of 
cardiovascular events. Furthermore, peripheral arterial disease is a significant 
independent predictor for cardiovascular mortality also in coronary patients. 
The risk factors associated with peripheral arterial disease are essentially the 
same as for coronary heart disease: older age, cigarette smoking, diabetes 
mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. The excess morbidity and mortality 
for cardiovascular disease in these patients has not been fully explained. 
Patients with peripheral arterial disease show a systemic endothelial 
dysfunction and an increase in the serum concentration of activated white blood 
cells, endothelin, and C-reactive protein that may trigger acute coronary 
syndromes. In peripheral arterial disease the functional status is often 
severely impaired. Peak exercise performance has decreased to about 50% of that 
of age-matched controls, equivalent to moderate-severe heart failure. 
Epidemiological studies support the concept that patients affected by peripheral 
arterial disease, without established coronary heart disease, have a coronary 
heart disease high risk equivalent. In spite of this, peripheral arterial 
disease remains an underdiagnosed and undertreated disease. As the role of 
cardiologists is expanding, the purpose of this review was to awaken the 
clinician to the significance of lower limb atherosclerotic occlusive diseases.

PMID: 12784766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Indian J Pediatr. 2003 Mar;70(3):269-70. doi: 10.1007/BF02725596.

Congenital fibrolipoma of anal canal.

Mathur SK(1), Jindal R, Singh S, Marwah N, Rattan K, Arora B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Pediatric Surgery, Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Rohtak, Haryana, India.

Although rare, congenital lipomatosis presents during first few months of life 
as large sub-cutaneous fatty masses on chest with extension into skeletal muscle 
bundles. Only a few such cases have been reported in the literature. A rare case 
of congenital fibrolipoma of anal canal in a 3-day-old male child is being 
documented in the present report.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02725596
PMID: 12785301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Ethn Dis. 2003 Spring;13(2):240-7.

A further study of life expectancy by socioeconomic factors in the National 
Longitudinal Mortality Study.

Lin CC(1), Rogot E, Johnson NJ, Sorlie PD, Arias E.

Author information:
(1)US Census Bureau, Washington, DC 20233-8700, USA. charles.c.lin@census.gov

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this article is to provide estimates of life 
expectancy for White, Black, and Hispanic populations by socioeconomic factors. 
Effects of educational, income, employment, and marital status on life 
expectancy are presented and interpreted.
DESIGN: The National Longitudinal Mortality Study, consisting of a number of 
Current Population Surveys (CPS) linked to mortality information obtained from 
the National Death Index, provides data to construct life tables for various 
socioeconomic and demographic groups. Probabilities of death are estimated using 
a person-year approach to accommodate the aging of the population over 11 years 
of follow up.
RESULTS: Across various ethnicity-race-sex groups, longer life expectancy was 
observed for individuals with higher levels of education and income, and for 
those who were married and employed. The differences in life expectancy between 
levels of the socioeconomic characteristics tended to be larger for men than for 
women. Also, differences were found to be larger for the non-Hispanic Black 
population compared to the non-Hispanic White population. Hispanic White men 
exhibited patterns similar to those of non-Hispanic White and Black men.
CONCLUSIONS: For selected ethnicity-race-sex groups, the impact of socioeconomic 
variables on life expectancy is dramatic. The shorter life expectancy observed 
among the poor, the less educated, the unmarried, and those not in the labor 
force, highlights the impact of socioeconomic disadvantage on survival. Further, 
the substantial 14-year differential favoring the employed over those not in the 
labor force may be partially explained by unemployment due to poor health. 
Another reason may be that employed individuals have greater access to health 
care than do those not in the labor force.

PMID: 12785422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Ethn Dis. 2003 Spring;13(2):299.

A further study of life expectancy by socioeconomic factors in the National 
Longitudinal Mortality Study.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12785431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;31(3):213-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1442-9071.2003.00647.x.

Trends in cataract surgery and postoperative endophthalmitis in Western 
Australia (1980-1998): the Endophthalmitis Population Study of Western 
Australia.

Semmens JB(1), Li J, Morlet N, Ng J; teamEPSWA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services Research, School of Population Health, The 
University of Western Australia, Crawley, Australia. james@dph.uwa.edu.au

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Jun;31(3):176-8.

OBJECTIVES: Postoperative endophthalmitis results from an intraocular infection 
and usually occurs following cataract surgery. It has significant morbidity and 
causes severe visual impairment or blindness of the eye. The aim of this study 
was to assess the trends in the incidence rates of cataract surgery and 
postoperative endophthalmitis in Western Australia for the period 1980-1998.
METHODS: The Western Australian Record Linkage Project was used to link the 
morbidity records for all patients treated for cataract surgery in Western 
Australia in 1980-1998. Patient records were selected using the international 
classification for diagnosis and procedure codes pertaining to cataract surgery 
and postoperative endophthalmitis. All cases of postoperative endophthalmitis 
were validated by case-note review. The separate databases of the Royal Perth 
Hospital microbiology and anaesthetic departments as well as the vitreo-retinal 
surgeon logbooks were used to cross-validate the hospital morbidity database. 
Trends in the incidence rates of cataract surgery and postoperative 
endophthalmitis were assessed by Poisson regression.
RESULTS: There were 94,653 cataract procedures performed for 63,007 patients in 
Western Australia during the 19-year period. The majority (88%) of cataract 
procedures performed were in patients aged 60 years or older. Postoperative 
endophthalmitis developed in 188 patients, with serious visual impairment 
occurring in 70.6% of patients for whom visual acuity data was available at 
presentation. The incidence rate of cataract surgery increased more than 
three-fold from 1981 (102 per 100,000 person years) to 1998 (345 per 100,000 
person years), mainly due to the increase in extracapsular cataract extraction 
during the 1980s and phacoemulsification extraction from 1990 onwards. In 
contrast, the average annual incidence rate of postoperative endophthalmitis 
remained relatively unchanged at around 2 per 1000 cataract procedures over the 
same period.
CONCLUSION: Cataract surgery is becoming more prevalent in the elderly as the 
life expectancy of the population increases. There has been a dramatic shift in 
surgical practice during the last 30 years with small-incision 
phacoemulsification being the predominant method of intervention used since 
1990. Despite changes in surgical practice the incidence rate of postoperative 
endophthalmitis has remained the same.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1442-9071.2003.00647.x
PMID: 12786771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Invest Dermatol. 2003 Jun;120(6):1067-72. doi: 
10.1046/j.1523-1747.2003.12240.x.

The potential impact on melanoma mortality of reducing rates of suboptimal 
excision margins.

Barzilai DA(1), Singer ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

We estimated the potential benefit of reducing rates of inadequate excision 
margins in the treatment of localized invasive melanoma. A computer-simulated 
Markov decision analytic model was created to follow until death a hypothetical 
cohort of 55 y old Caucasians, newly diagnosed in a community setting with 
localized invasive melanoma. We considered two scenarios: usual care, and a 
hypothetical intervention. Markov states included well without local recurrence, 
local recurrence, cured, and dead. Published population-based data were used for 
rates of optimal excision margins, local recurrence, and mortality. Two outcome 
measures were employed: melanoma-related mortality and life expectancy. Major 
assumptions included: local recurrence occurs within 10 y of diagnosis, and 
patients revert to general population mortality rates 10 y following melanoma 
excision or subsequent local recurrence. For usual care, the model estimated 
8.17% melanoma-related mortality. Modeling intervention with 100% optimal 
excision margins reduced this rate to 6.15%, a 25% relative reduction in 
mortality. This increased average life expectancy by 0.437 y, which equates to 
approximately 11 additional years in the 4% who would not experience a local 
recurrence due to improved excision margins. Increasing the percentage of 
optimal excision margins to 80% would still yield substantial improvement, with 
6.83% melanoma-related mortality, saving 0.29 life-years compared with baseline. 
Results were insensitive to moderate changes in the parameter values. Suboptimal 
excision margins may account for approximately one-fourth of all 
melanoma-related mortality for localized invasive melanoma. If intervention can 
achieve even modest adherence to optimal excision margins, it might 
substantially reduce mortality.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1747.2003.12240.x
PMID: 12787136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Kidney Int. 2003 Jul;64(1):295-304. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00079.x.

The cost-effectiveness of maintaining higher hemoglobin targets with 
erythropoietin in hemodialysis patients.

Tonelli M(1), Winkelmayer WC, Jindal KK, Owen WF, Manns BJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

BACKGROUND: There is uncertainty regarding the appropriate target hemoglobin 
level in hemodialysis patients treated with erythropoietin (EPO).
METHODS: We sought to determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
prescribing EPO to maintain different target hemoglobin levels, by incorporating 
the impact of EPO on health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) issues and adopting 
the perspective of the health care purchaser. We evaluated the prescription of 
EPO to maintain target hemoglobin levels of 11.0 to 12.0, 12.0 to 12.5, and 14.0 
g/dL, compared with 9.5 to 10.5 g/dL. Model outputs were quality-adjusted life 
expectancy and costs.
RESULTS: The base case analysis estimated intravenous EPO requirements to be 
3523, 5078, 6097, and 9341 units three times per week to maintain targets of 9.5 
to 10.5, 11.0 to 12.0, 12.0 to 12.5, and 14.0 g/dL, respectively. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for the 11.0 to 12.0 g/dL target vs. 
9.5 to 10.5 g/dL was $55,295 US. For the 12.0 to 12.5 g/dL target compared to 
11.0 to 12.0 g/dL, and 14.0 g/dL target compared to 12.0 to 12.5 g/dL, the costs 
per QALY gained were $613,015 US and $828,215 US, respectively. In sensitivity 
analysis, clinically implausible reductions in hospitalization or EPO 
requirements associated with the two higher hemoglobin targets were required to 
make their incremental cost per QALY gained <$100,000 US.
CONCLUSION: Dosing intravenous EPO to achieve hemoglobin targets of 11.0 to 12.0 
g/dL appears to be associated with incremental cost per QALY gained of $50,000 
to $60,000, compared with a hemoglobin target of 9.5 to 10.5 g/dL. Aiming for 
hemoglobin targets in excess of 12.0 g/dL is associated with unfavorable 
cost-effectiveness ratios and should not be undertaken based on current data.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00079.x
PMID: 12787422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Lancet. 2003 May 31;361(9372):1843-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13501-5.

Effect of enalapril on 12-year survival and life expectancy in patients with 
left ventricular systolic dysfunction: a follow-up study.

Jong P(1), Yusuf S, Rousseau MF, Ahn SA, Bangdiwala SI.

Author information:
(1)Population Health Research Institute, and Division of Cardiology, Hamilton 
General Hospital, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In the studies of left ventricular dysfunction (SOLVD), enalapril 
reduced mortality in patients with symptomatic but not asymptomatic left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction during the trial. We did a 12-year follow-up of 
SOLVD to establish if the mortality reduction with enalapril among patients with 
heart failure was sustained, and whether a subsequent reduction in mortality 
would emerge among those with asymptomatic ventricular dysfunction.
METHODS: Of the 6797 patients previously enrolled in the SOLVD prevention and 
treatment trials, we ascertained the subsequent vital status of 5165 individuals 
who were alive when the trials had been completed. Follow-up was done through 
direct contacts in Belgium and linkages with national death registries and 
federal beneficiary or historic tax summary files in the USA and Canada.
FINDINGS: Follow-up was 99.8% (6784/6797) complete. In the prevention trial, 
50.9% (1074/2111) of the enalapril group had died compared with 56.4% 
(1195/2117) of the placebo group (generalised Wilcoxon p=0.001). In the 
treatment trial, 79.8% (1025/1285) of the enalapril group had died compared with 
80.8% (1038/1284) of the placebo group (generalised Wilcoxon p=0.01). The 
reductions in cardiac deaths were significant and similar in both trials. When 
data for the prevention and treatment trials were combined, the hazard ratio for 
death was 0.90 for the enalapril group compared with the placebo group (95% CI 
0.84-0.95, generalised Wilcoxon p=0.0003). Enalapril extended median survival by 
9.4 months in the combined trials (95% CI 2.8-16.5, p=0.004).
INTERPRETATION: Treatment with enalapril for 3-4 years led to a sustained 
improvement in survival beyond the original trial period in patients with left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction, with an important increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13501-5
PMID: 12788569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. EMBO Rep. 2003 Jun;4 Spec No(Suppl 1):S15-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.embor859.

Gaps between the rich and the poor. The widening differences in wealth, life 
expectancy, public health infrastructure and perception of threats, and the 
consequences for global security.

Garrett L(1).

Author information:
(1)Science and Medical Writer for Newsday, New York, USA. 
laurie.garrett@newsday.com

The widening differences in wealth, life expectancy, public health 
infrastructure and perception of threats, and the consequences for global 
security

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.embor859
PMCID: PMC1326446
PMID: 12789399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2003 May 1;123(9):1223.

[Expected longevity in Europe: increasing gap between east and west].

[Article in Norwegian]

Olsen B(1).

Author information:
(1)Senter for helse og sosial utvikling (HESO) Øvre Vollgate 11 Oslo. 
berit.olsen@heso.no

PMID: 12789795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Compend Contin Educ Dent. 2002 Oct;23(10 Suppl):4-11.

Aging successfully: oral health for the prime of life.

Niessen LC(1), Fedele DJ.

Author information:
(1)DENTSPLY International York, Pennsylvania, USA.

Aging is a worldwide phenomena. More adults, particularly those in developed 
countries, are living longer and healthier lives. The average US life expectancy 
was 47 years in 1900; by 2000, it had increased to 74 years. As the population 
ages, the number of adults with acute and chronic illnesses increases. The use 
of medications also increases with age. People over 65 years of age make up 
about 12% of the US population, but they consume 30% of all prescription 
medications, many of which can have a negative impact on oral health. Although 
tooth loss is declining in US adults, the need for various types of dental 
services in the adult population continues to increase. Data on the use of 
dental services has shown that dental visits by older adults correlate with the 
presence of teeth, not age. Research on the epidemiology of periodontal disease 
in older adults suggests that the disease in older adults is probably not due to 
greater susceptibility but, instead, the result of cumulative disease 
progression over time. Data on root caries has shown that exposed root surfaces, 
in combination with compromised health status and the use of multiple 
medications, can increase an older adult's risk for root caries. Oral 
candidiasis commonly occurs in immunocompromised individuals of any age, but in 
older adults, nursing home residents are particularly susceptible. Oral cancer 
is a disease of older adults, with a median age of 64 at diagnosis. Tobacco and 
alcohol use are the most common risk factors. Mental or physical impairments, 
such as dementing illnesses, or impaired dexterity as a result of arthritis or 
stroke, can impair an adult's ability to perform adequate oral self-care. 
Preventing oral diseases in older adults requires an understanding of the risk 
factors for oral diseases and how these risk factors change over time. Of 
particular concern are nursing home residents, who remain the most vulnerable of 
elders. Incorporating preventive oral health strategies into dental treatment 
and nursing home care will play a critical role in maintaining oral health for a 
lifetime. Oral health education of family, caregivers, and nursing home staff is 
essential if oral diseases are to be avoided later in life.

PMID: 12790011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Rev Med Chil. 2003 Mar;131(3):321-30.

[Income inequality and self rated health: an analysis from a contextual 
perspective in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Subramanian V(1), Delgado I, Jadue L, Kawachi I, Vega J.

Author information:
(1)Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile.

BACKGROUND: The correlation between income inequality and life expectancy was 
demonstrated 10 years ago, but later, several studies suggested that the 
negative impact of a low economic income on the health status was disappearing.
AIM: To assess the independent effects of community income inequality on self 
rated health in Chile.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Multilevel analysis of the 2000 National Socio Economic 
Characterization Survey (CASEN) data from Chile. Individual level information 
included self rated health, age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, education, 
income, type of health insurance and residential setting (urban/rural). 
Community level variables included the Gini coefficient and median income. The 
main outcome measure was dichotomized self rated health (0 if excellent, very 
good or good; 1 if fair or poor).
RESULTS: 101,374 individuals (at level 1) aged 18 and above, nested within 285 
communities (at level 2) and 13 regions (at level 3) were studied. Controlling 
for a range of individual level predictors, a significant gradient was observed 
between income and poor self rated health, with very poor most likely to report 
poor health (10.5%) followed by poor (9.5%) low (9%) middle (7%), high (6%) and 
very high (4.5%) income earners. Controlling for individual and community 
effects of income, a significant non linear effect of community income 
inequality was observed, with the most unequal communities being associated with 
approximately 5% higher likelihood of reporting poor health compared to the most 
equal communities.
CONCLUSIONS: Individual income does not explain any of the between community 
differences and neither does it wash the significant effects of income 
inequality on poor self rated health. The contextual effect of inequality is 
almost as large as the differential observed in poor health comparing the very 
poor to the very rich individual income categories.

PMID: 12790083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Med Screen. 2003;10(1):11-3. doi: 10.1258/096914103321610743.

Hereditary haemochromatosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in males: a strategy 
for estimating the potential for primary prevention.

Haddow JE(1), Palomaki GE, McClain M, Craig W.

Author information:
(1)Foundation for Blood Research, 69 US Route One, Scarborough, Maine 04074, 
USA. jhaddow@fbr.org

OBJECTIVES: Homozygosity for the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene is the main 
cause of iron overload in hereditary haemochromatosis. This study calculated the 
number of hepatocellular carcinoma cases among a cohort of white males that 
could be attributed to C282Y homozygosity. A better understanding of the extent 
of potentially preventable mortality arising from this cancer might help with 
decision making about the feasibility of population screening.
METHODS: We combined information from published life tables, age-specific cancer 
rates and DNA studies of archived liver biopsy specimens to calculate the number 
of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma that might occur during the lifetime of a 
cohort of 1,000,000 men, including a subgroup of 5000 C282Y homozygotes.
RESULTS: Hepatocellular carcinoma was estimated to occur in 2673 men in the 
cohort (1:374); 267 of these cases were in the subgroup of 5000 C282Y 
homozygotes (1:17). If these 267 cases were prevented, the remaining lifetime 
risk among all males would be 1:416. The relative risk for this cancer in C282Y 
homozygotes is 23.
CONCLUSIONS: There continues to be uncertainty about the efficacy of screening 
for haemochromatosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most readily quantifiable 
serious health problem attributable to this source. Further confirmatory DNA 
(C282Y) studies would be helpful in larger, unbiased sets of archived biopsy 
specimens, as a way to confirm the present estimate. Any strategy designed to 
prevent attributable liver cancer is likely to prevent other serious problems 
from haemochromatasis as well.

DOI: 10.1258/096914103321610743
PMID: 12790309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Trop Med Int Health. 2003 Jun;8(6):525-35. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.2003.01052.x.

The prevalence of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae) mosquitoes in Sekong Province, 
Lao PDR in relation to malaria transmission.

Vythilingam I(1), Phetsouvanh R, Keokenchanh K, Yengmala V, Vanisaveth V, 
Phompida S, Hakim SL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Research, Jalan Pahang, 50588 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
indra@imr.gov.my

A longitudinal study was conducted on the prevalence of Anopheles in three 
malaria endemic villages in Sekong province, in the southern region of Lao PDR, 
from August 2000 to October 2001. All night, human landing collections took 
place in August and October 2000 and April and October 2001, and blood smears 
were taken for malaria parasites during the same period. Mosquitoes were tested 
for sporozoite antigen using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In August 2000 
(wet season) and April 2001 (dry season) the ovaries of the mosquitoes were 
examined for parity. A total of 16 species of Anopheles were caught in the study 
sites of which An. dirus A, An. maculatus sl and An. jeyporiensis were positive 
for sporozoites. The entomological inoculation rate (EIR) ranged from 0.06 to 
0.25. There was a good correlation between EIR and vectorial capacity in the wet 
season, especially in Pai Mai where the prevalence of malaria was also high 
during the wet seasons (11.8 and 10.53). An. dirus A showed ambivalence in their 
choice of feeding as approximately 50% attacked man indoors and an equal 
proportion outdoors. An dirus A was the main vector in Pai Mai. The parous rate 
did not significantly differ between the wet and dry season, although it was 
higher in the dry season. In Takaio the parasite prevalence ranged from 8.7% 
(dry season) to 37.1% (wet season) and An. jeyporiensis was the vector, and the 
risk of infection was 0.85 in the dry season while 0.99 in the wet season. In 
Toumgno An. maculatus sl was the vector and infection was found only in August 
and October 2000. However, malaria prevalence ranged from 9.69 to 20.4% and was 
equally high in the dry season. Cattle were also present close to the houses in 
all the villages and this might be a contributory factor in the prevalence of 
malaria.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.2003.01052.x
PMID: 12791058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Epilepsy Behav. 2003 Jun;4(3):217-25. doi: 10.1016/s1525-5050(03)00057-x.

Epilepsy self-management: a comparison of self-efficacy and outcome expectancy 
for medication adherence and lifestyle behaviors among people with epilepsy.

Kobau R(1), DiIorio C.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Program, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention & Health 
Promotion, Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, 4770 Buford Highway NE, 
MS-K45, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. rmk4@cdc.gov

The purpose of this study was to describe self-efficacy beliefs and outcome 
expectancies toward medication, seizure, and lifestyle management behaviors 
among 108 adults with epilepsy. Participants responded to an adapted version of 
the Epilepsy Self-Efficacy and Epilepsy Outcome Expectancy scales. Modifiable 
behavioral risk factors such as confidence for following medication dosing 
schedule, planning for medication refills, coping with adverse effects of 
medication, getting sufficient sleep, avoiding alcohol, and obtaining social 
support were identified. A larger proportion of persons reported higher 
self-efficacy for medication management behaviors than for healthful lifestyle 
behaviors. Findings from this study extend previous research on chronic disease 
that showed that individuals may be adherent with medication therapy, but not 
with healthful lifestyle behaviors necessary for the prevention and treatment of 
chronic disease. Individuals with low self-efficacy would benefit from 
interventions that increase efficacy beliefs to enhance their ability to adopt 
and maintain good self-management practices.

DOI: 10.1016/s1525-5050(03)00057-x
PMID: 12791322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Comput Biol Med. 2003 Jul;33(4):345-60. doi: 10.1016/s0010-4825(03)00003-9.

A computer model for the study of breast cancer.

Carter KJ(1), Castro F, Kessler E, Erickson B.

Author information:
(1)St. Elizabeth Health Center, The Northeastern Ohio Universities College of 
Medicine, Youngstown, Rootstown, OH, USA. gcrv44a@zoominternet.net

A computer model was designed as a relational database to assess breast cancer 
screening in a cohort of women where the growth and development of breast cancer 
originates with the first malignant cell. The concepts of thresholds for growth, 
axillary spread, and distant sites are integrated. With tumor diagnosis, staging 
was performed that includes clinical and sub-clinical states. The model was 
parameterized to have staging characteristics similar to data published by the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End-Results (SEER) Program. Validation was 
accomplished by comparing simulated staging results with non-SEER sources, and 
simulated survival with independent clinical survival data.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-4825(03)00003-9
PMID: 12791407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2003 Jun;46(3):211-20. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00020-9.

Geriatric oncology.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and 
Research Institute, University of South Florida, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 
33612, USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

The discussion of breast cancer in the older woman implies an outline of unique 
aspects of cancer and aging. In this analysis, five aspects are highlighted 
because they pertain to breast cancer control: the diversity of the older 
population; the age-related increase in cancer susceptibility; the changes in 
tumor biology that occur with aging; and the implication of these factors for 
the prevention and treatment of cancer. The comprehensive geriatric assessment 
accounts for the diversity of the older population in terms of functional 
reserve and life expectancy and allows an individualized approach to the 
elderly. The increased susceptibility of the aged to environmental carcinogens 
has multiple causes and provides theoretical support to cancer prevention to the 
older individuals. The natural behavior of cancer may change with age due to 
intrinsic changes in the tumor cells as well as in the tumor host and may lead 
to both increased and decreased aggressiveness of the neoplasm. In the case of 
breast cancer, age seems associated with a more indolent tumor. Cancer screening 
seems effective in older patients with a life-expectancy of 5 or more years. 
Treatment of cancer with chemotherapy may be associated with increased risk of 
complications, especially mucositis and neutropenia. The latter may be 
ameliorated by prophylactic use of growth factors and correction of anemia.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00020-9
PMID: 12791420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2003 Jun;46(3):235-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00022-2.

Mammography screening in elderly women: efficacy and cost-effectiveness.

Zappa M(1), Visioli CB, Ciatto S.

Author information:
(1)Descriptive and Epidemiological Unit, Center for Study and Prevention of 
Cancer (CSPO), Scientific Institute of Tuscany Region, Via di San Salvi, 12, 
50135, Florence, Italy. m.zappa@cspo.it

The definition of an upper age limit for breast cancer screening is a rather 
complex issue, influenced by several conditions. Randomised trials specifically 
designed to investigate this aspect are not available, but all process 
indicators (positive predictive value, length of sojourn time, sensitivity of 
the test) indicate that screening efficacy does not change with increasing age. 
On the other hand, competing causes of death could decrease screening efficacy 
beyond age 74. Screening benefits depend on life expectancy and people with 
<5-10 years life expectancy are unlikely to benefit from screening, so it is 
still worthwhile considering the variability of life expectancy at different 
ages. Furthermore, economical implications are evident. Public health 
recommendations need to weigh the benefit of screening elderly women against 
costs, negative side effects and potential harm due to overdiagnosis and 
overtreatment of screen-detected lesions expected to have no effect on 
mortality. In this scenario, the medical system has an ethical obligation to 
properly inform the population invited to screening. Over the age of 74 years, 
encouraging individualized decisions may be more appropriate and may indicate 
further screening for those subjects for whom the potential benefit outweighs 
the potential negative effects.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00022-2
PMID: 12791422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2003 Jun;46(3):241-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00023-4.

Treatment of older breast cancer patients with high recurrence risk.

Crivellari D(1), Spazzapan S, Lombardi D, Berretta M, Magri MD, Sorio R, Scalone 
S, Veronesi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology C, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico, 33081, 
Aviano, Italy. dcrivellari@cro.it

Adjuvant treatment of elderly women affected by breast cancer who have a high 
risk of recurrence is one of the most questionable issues in clinical oncology. 
The use of tamoxifen in women with hormone receptor-positive tumors is a 
relatively simple therapeutic option considering the favourable toxicity 
profile, whereas the administration of adjuvant chemotherapy is more complicated 
and a variety of aspects need to be considered. The estimated life expectancy, 
the presence and degree of comorbid conditions, the geriatric assessment and 
estimated benefit from treatment should be taken into account. Due to the lack 
of data from clinical trials in women over the age of 70, the approach is still 
experimental. Clinical trials evaluating the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in 
high risk patients are currently being developed and hopefully in the near 
future, more convincing data on the best drugs, regimens and benefits for the 
treatment of elderly breast cancer patients will become available.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(03)00023-4
PMID: 12791423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Gerontology. 2003 Jul-Aug;49(4):265-71. doi: 10.1159/000070409.

Self-rated life expectancy as a predictor of mortality: evidence from the HRS 
and AHEAD surveys.

Siegel M(1), Bradley EH, Kasl SV.

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. 
msiegel@aecom-yu.edu

BACKGROUND: An extensive literature has demonstrated that self-ratings of health 
predict mortality, even after controlling for more objective measures of health, 
health habits and sociodemographic characteristics. We examine the role of a 
related concept, self-rated life expectancy, in predicting mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether self-rated life expectancy predicts mortality after 
controlling for measures of health, self-rated health, and sociodemographic 
characteristics.
METHODS: Using data from the 1992 Health and Retirement Survey (HRS), the 1993 
Asset and Health Dynamics Among the Oldest Old (AHEAD) survey, and the second 
Tracker file (2.0), Cox proportional hazard models were estimated to assess 
whether self-rated life expectancy predicts mortality, after adjusting for 
self-rated health and several potential confounders that might otherwise explain 
this relationship. The AHEAD sample included 2,102 men and 3,160 women. During 
the 2 years of follow-up, 9% (n = 185) of the men died and 5% (n = 166) of the 
women died. The HRS sample was comprised of 4,090 men and 4,885 women. Four 
percent (n = 164) of the men died and 2% (n = 99) of the women died in the 3 
years of follow-up.
RESULTS: In the older, AHEAD sample, both self-rated life expectancy (p < 0.01) 
and self-rated health (p < 0.05) predicted mortality for both men and women, 
even when the two measures were included in the model together. In the younger, 
HRS sample, self-rated life expectancy was not significantly associated with 
mortality when self-rated health was included in the model.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that, although self-rated life expectancy and 
self-rated health may be conceptually related, they have independent empirical 
effects on mortality.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000070409
PMID: 12792164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Dis Colon Rectum. 2003 May;46(5):676-8. doi: 10.1007/s10350-004-6630-1.

Merkel cell (neuroendocrine) carcinoma of the anal canal: report of a case.

Paterson C(1), Musselman L, Chorneyko K, Reid S, Rawlinson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2004 Feb;47(2):256-7; author reply 257.

Merkel cell tumors are rare neuroendocrine tumors typically found on sun-exposed 
areas such as extremities. We describe the case of a 42-year-old female with a 
Merkel cell tumor arising in the anal canal. The tumor was initially thought to 
represent a hemorrhoid arising during pregnancy and was excised locally after 
confirmation of extensive metastatic disease. The patient died 13 months after 
diagnosis with extensive metastatic disease involving the liver. In our search 
