of the world literature there are several reports of neuroendocrine tumors in 
the rectum; however, no cases of documented Merkel cell tumors arising in the 
anal canal have been reported. These tumors seem to behave in a very aggressive 
manner when found in other atypical areas. The presentation symptoms were 
perianal discomfort and bleeding. Local excision may be the only surgical 
treatment necessary to control symptoms, given the propensity to early 
metastases and short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-004-6630-1
PMID: 12792446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2003 May 15;115(9):273-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03040330.

New health care challenges for the "old Europe".

Michel JP.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03040330
PMID: 12793025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2003 May;85(4):510-6. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.85b4.13301.

Trochanteric slide osteotomy in revision total hip arthroplasty for loosening.

Langlais F(1), Lambotte JC, Collin P, Langlois F, Fontaine JW, Thomazeau H.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, University Hospital Sud, Rennes, France.

We used a trochanteric slide osteotomy (TSO) in 94 consecutive revision total 
hip arthroplasties (90 with replacement of both the cup and stem). This 
technique proved to be adequate for removing the components, with few 
complications (two minor fractures), and for implanting acetabular allografts 
(18%) and reinforcement devices (23%). Trochanteric union was obtained in most 
patients (96%), even in those with septic loosening (18/19), major femoral 
osteolysis (32/32), or previous trochanteric osteotomy (17/18). TSO is 
versatile, since it can be extended by a femoral flap (four cases) or a distal 
femoral window (eight cases). Despite significant bone loss, in 24% of the 
femora and 57% of the acetabula, favourable midterm results were achieved and 
only six reoperations were required, Including two for trochanteric nonunion and 
two for loosening. It leaves the lateral femoral cortex intact so that a stem 
longer than 200 mm was needed in only 25% of patients. This is a considerable 
advantage compared with the extended trochanteric osteotomy in which the long 
lateral flap (12 to 14 cm) requires an average length of stem of 220 mm beyond 
the calcar. TSO provides an approach similar in size to the standard 
trochanteric osteotomy but with a rate of nonunion of 4% versus 15%. It reduces 
the risk of difficulties with removal of the stem, and removes the need for 
routine distal anchoring of long revision stems. The limited distal femoral 
compromise is very important in patients with a long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.85b4.13301
PMID: 12793554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2003 May;85(4):535-7. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.85b4.13813.

Survival analysis is a better estimate of recurrent disc herniation.

Gaston P(1), Marshall RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading, 
England, UK.

Studies on recurrent disc herniation quote rates of recurrence without regard to 
the times of recurrence and the influence of longer follow-up. Our objective was 
to assess the use of survival analysis to measure the rate of revision after 
lumbar microdiscectomy. We undertook a retrospective analysis of the hospital 
records of 993 patients who underwent lumbar microdiscectomy over a period of 
ten years. After calculating the overall rate of revision for the mean length of 
follow-up, we carried out a survival analysis using the life-table method. 
During the study period 49 patients had a revision microdiscectomy. This gave an 
overall rate of revision of 4.9% at a mean follow-up of 5.25 years. Using 
survival analysis, the rate of revision was 7.9% at a follow-up of ten years 
when the number at risk was 84. Survival analysis gives a more accurate 
estimation of the true rate of recurrence for patients undergoing lumbar 
microdiscectomy. The method allows better comparison between different 
interventions for disc herniation.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.85b4.13813
PMID: 12793559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Rev Sci Tech. 2003 Apr;22(1):23-36.

The transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.

Lasmézas CI(1).

Author information:
(1)Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique, Laboratoire de Pathogènes des Prions, 
Service de Neurovirologie, Direction des Sciences du Vivant/Département de 
Recherche Médicale, BP 6, 92265 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.

Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) represent a group of 
neurodegenerative diseases characterised by a very long incubation period in 
regard to the life expectancy of the host species. The lesions are restricted to 
the central nervous system, although the pathogenesis of infection implies a 
primary replication step of TSE agents in the lymphoid organs followed by a 
neuroinvasive phase. The outcome is always fatal and today there is neither cure 
nor prophylaxis for these diseases. For years, the causative agents of TSEs have 
posed a conundrum in terms of current knowledge of microorganisms, and there are 
still open questions about their exact nature. They are usually called TSE 
agents or prions because they are thoughtto be primarily composed of a modified 
host protein, the prion protein (PrP). A pathological form of the prion protein, 
called PrPSc (for scrapie) or PrPRes, an operational definition referring to 
resistance to proteolytic digestion, accumulates in target organs. The aim of 
this introductory chapter is to presentthe general features of TSEs and a modern 
understanding of TSE agents and their mode of replication. Notwithstanding the 
plethora of unsolved questions on these diseases and their aetiology, knowledge 
of their pathogenesis and recent advances in understanding of the molecular 
basis of PrP accumulation, together with detection systems, provide the tools to 
conduct sound TSE risk management.

PMID: 12793772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Arthritis Rheum. 2003 Jun 15;49(3):283-92. doi: 10.1002/art.11121.

The cost effectiveness of rofecoxib and celecoxib in patients with 
osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.

Maetzel A(1), Krahn M, Naglie G.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
maetzel@uhnres.utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of the cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) 
selective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) rofecoxib compared with 
naproxen and the COX-2 NSAID celecoxib compared with ibuprofen and diclofenac.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis based on a 5-year Markov model. Probability 
estimates were derived from detailed data of 2 randomized trials and a 
systematic search of the medical literature. Utility estimates were obtained 
from 60 randomly selected members of the general public. Cost estimates were 
obtained from Canadian provincial databases. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were calculated for patients at average risk of upper gastrointestinal 
(UGI) events and for high-risk patients with a prior history of a UGI event. 
Subjects were patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) where a 
decision has been made to treat with NSAIDs but who do not require low-dose 
aspirin. Main outcome measures were proportion of patients with clinical or 
complicated UGI events, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Evaluation of rofecoxib versus naproxen in patients with RA at average 
risk resulted in costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of 
$Can271,188. Celecoxib was dominated by diclofenac in average-risk patients. 
Both rofecoxib and celecoxib are cost-effective in high-risk patients. Analyses 
by age groups and assuming a threshold of Can$50,000 per QALY gained, suggest 
that rofecoxib or celecoxib would be cost-effective in patients aged over 76 and 
81, respectively, without additional risk factors.
CONCLUSION: Both rofecoxib and celecoxib are economically attractive in high 
risk and elderly patients. They are not economically attractive in patients at 
average risk. Coprescription of proton-pump inhibitors with COX-2 NSAIDs is not 
economically attractive for patients at high risk.

DOI: 10.1002/art.11121
PMID: 12794781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 May;94(4):503-11; discussion 511-2. doi:
 10.5980/jpnjurol1989.94.503.

[Cost-utility analysis of androgen ablation therapy in metastatic prostate 
cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujikawa K(1), Awakura Y, Okabe T, Watanabe R, Nishimura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Shiga Medical Center for Adults, Moriyama-cho 5-4-30, 
Moriyama city, Shiga, 524 Japan.

BACKGROUND: As Bayoumi, et al pointed out in their article (J. Natl. Cancer 
Inst. 2000, vol 92, p 1731), it is evident that treatment of prostate cancer 
with Luteinizing Hormone Releasing Hormone (LHRH) analogue costs more than 
treatment by bilateral orchiectomy. However, patients with metastatic prostate 
cancer are usually treated with LHRH analogue. Does this mean that urologist 
choose higher cost and less Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY) treatment? 
Therefore, we urologists should re-analyze their conclusion whether the 
treatment with LHRH analogue is really strictly dominated (high cost and low 
effect).
MATERIAL AND METHOD: We performed a cost-utility analysis using the Markov model 
based on a formal meta-analysis and literature review, using the same 
assumptions as Bayoumi, et al, from the perspective of insurer. The base case 
was assumed to be a 65-year-old man with symptomatic metastatic prostate cancer. 
The model used time horizon of 10 years. Five androgen ablation therapies were 
evaluated as first-line therapy: diethylstilbestrol diphosphate (DES), 
orchiectomy, orchiectomy + nonsteroidal antiandrogen (NSAA), LHRH analogue and 
LHRH analogue + NSAA. Outcome measures were QALY, lifetime costs and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: While DES was the least expensive therapy with the lowest QALY, LHRH 
analogue monotherapy was the second most expensive therapy with the longest 
QALY. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios relative to DES of LHRH (yen 
4,288,295/QALY) was cheaper than that of orchiectomy when quality of life (QOL) 
weight of orchiectomy was assumed to be 0.94 relative to that of LHRH analogue. 
Contrarily, LHRH analogue + NSAA is excluded with strict dominance and 
Orchiectomy + NSAA is excluded with extended dominance.
CONCLUSION: Although LHRH analogue costs higher than orchiectomy, LHRH analogue 
can offer longer QALY than orchiectomy. Cost/QALY of LHRH analogue relative to 
DES is yen 4,288,295/QALY, which we considered to represent a good value. Choice 
of therapy depends on the patient's preference.

DOI: 10.5980/jpnjurol1989.94.503
PMID: 12795165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2003 Jun 5;51(9):1-24.

The effect of revised populations on mortality statistics for the United States, 
2000.

Anderson RN(1), Arias E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, U.S Department of Health & Human Services, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents revised mortality statistics for the year 2000 
based on April 1, 2000, population figures from the 2000 census. Death rates are 
presented by race, Hispanic origin, sex, age, and cause of death. Life 
expectancies are presented by race (white and black), sex, and age. The revised 
statistics are compared with previously published statistics that used July 1, 
2000, postcensal population estimates based on the 1990 census.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on information from all death 
certificates filed in the 50 States and the District of Columbia. The statistics 
presented in this report are computed on the basis of two sets of population 
figures provided by the U.S. Census Bureau. The first set includes July 1, 2000, 
postcensal population estimates based on the 1990 decennial census. The second 
set includes April 1, 2000, populations from the 2000 decennial census bridged 
to single race categories.
RESULTS: Crude death rates were lower for all groups using the April 1, 2000, 
populations. Age-specific death rates were generally lower for most age groups, 
except for infants and the very old for which death rates were higher. 
Age-specific death rates for males were lower for most age groups, except 
infants and those 75 years and over. For females, with the exception of infants, 
age-specific death rates were lower. Race-specific pattems by age for the white 
and black populations were similar to all races combined. For the American 
Indian population, age-specific death rates were substantially lower for ages 
under 75 years. For ages 75 years and over, American Indian death rates were 
dramatically higher. Age-specific death rates for the Asian or Pacific Islander 
(API) population were higher for ages under 15 years; lower for ages 15-84 
years, especially for the 15-34 year age group; and higher for those 85 years 
and over. For the Hispanic population, age-specific death rates were 
substantially lower for those age 15-34 years and higher for those age 55 years 
and over, especially for those age 85 years and over. For the total white and 
total black populations, the age-adjusted death rate was somewhat higher for 
males and lower for females. For API the pattern was reversed. For the American 
Indian and Hispanic populations, age-adjusted death rates were higher for both 
males and females. For the 15 leading causes of death, age-adjusted death rates 
based on the April 1, 2000, population figures were lower for heart disease, 
cancer, chronic liver disease, septicemia, diabetes, chronic lower respiratory 
diseases, unintentional injuries, homicide, suicide, and hypertension. 
Age-adjusted death rates were higher for pneumonitis, Alzheimer's disease, and 
stroke. Rates were unchanged for influenza and pneumonia and nephritis, 
nephrotic syndrome and nephrosis. Life expectancy at birth was higher for the 
entire population and both the white and black populations using the April 1, 
2000, population figures. It was 0.1 year higher for the whole population as 
well as for the total white and total black populations. For the total male 
population, life expectancy at birth was 0.1 year higher while it was 0.2 years 
higher for the female population. The increase in life expectancy at birth was 
0.1 year for both sexes within the white and black populations. This observed 
gain in life expectancy at birth based on the revised population figures is 
reversed for life expectancy at the oldest age groups for the whole population 
and for males. A similar pattern is observed for both white and black males; 
however, the magnitude of the decline in life expectancy at older ages is much 
greater among black males. Among females of both race groups and the total 
population, there is either no change or an increase in life expectancy in the 
oldest age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Revised death rates and life expectancies are, in many cases, 
significantly different from previously published mortality statistics 
calculated using 1990-based postcensal estimates for 2000. Thus, previously 
published mortality statistics for 2000 using the 1990-based populations will 
not be comparable to the corresponding statistics that will be published for 
2001. The data in this report will provide comparable 2000 data. Efforts are 
also underway to revise previously published mortality tables for 2000 as well 
as previously published data for 1991-99.

PMID: 12795490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Online J Issues Nurs. 2003;8(2):4.

Care provision for older adults: who will provide?

Mion LC(1).

Author information:
(1)mionl@ccf.org

The aging of the baby boomers comes at a time of a growing nursing workforce 
shortage: registered nurses, nurse aides, and nursing faculty. Older adults have 
multiple physical, social, and psychological conditions, making the assessment, 
planning, and delivery of health care more complex than that of younger adults. 
Not surprisingly, this age group also utilizes the majority of health services 
in the country. Thus, most nurses will provide care to older adults in a variety 
of settings. However, the majority of nurses have little to no background in 
geriatric nursing. These multiple forces: aging population with complex needs, 
nursing work force shortage, and lack of geriatric knowledge, along with fewer 
resources, will have a grave impact on health care in this country in the near 
future. This article reviews issues related to an aging population, the 
projected nursing workforce shortage, and the lack of geriatric nursing 
education; it concludes with suggestions for future health care delivery to the 
geriatric population in the US

PMID: 12795630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Ann Oncol. 2003 Jun;14(6):946-57. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdg255.

Cancer prevalence in Northern Europe: the EUROPREVAL study.

Möller T(1), Anderson H, Aareleid T, Hakulinen T, Storm H, Tryggvadottir L, 
Corazziari I, Mugno E; EUROPREVAL Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Epidemiology, Lund University, and Regional Tumour 
Registry, Lund University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. torgil.moller@cancerepid.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Information on cancer prevalence is of importance for health 
planning and resource allocation, but is not always available. In order to 
obtain such data in a comparable way a systematic evaluation of cancer 
prevalence in Europe was undertaken within the EUROPREVAL project.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Standardised data were collected from 38 population-based 
registries on almost 3 million cancer patients diagnosed between 1970 and 1992. 
The prevalence of 11 specific cancer types was estimated at the index date of 31 
December 1992. This study deals with the northern countries Denmark, Estonia, 
Finland, Iceland and Sweden.
RESULTS: There were large differences between these countries, Sweden having the 
highest prevalence rate of 3050 per 100 000 and Estonia the lowest, 1339 per 100 
000. This difference is mainly due to a high proportion of cancers with 
favourable prognosis such as breast cancer, prostate cancer and melanoma, better 
survival and longer life expectancy in Sweden, whereas Estonia has a higher 
proportion of stomach and lung cancer with poor prognosis, worse survival and 
much shorter life expectancy, especially for males. For most tumour types, the 
Nordic countries did better than Estonia. There are indications that cancer 
patients in Estonia, as well as in Denmark, have a more advanced stage at 
diagnosis and that the Estonian health-care system is less efficient.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite many similarities and a common historical background, the 
northern countries in Europe that participated in the EUROPREVAL study display 
quite different cancer patterns and prevalence. Reasons for these variations are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdg255
PMID: 12796034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Chest. 2003 Jun;123(6):1895-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.123.6.1895.

Rapid pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusions.

Spiegler PA(1), Hurewitz AN, Groth ML.

Author information:
(1)Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, NY, USA. 
pspiegler@pulmonary.winthrop.org

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility of rapid pleurodesis in patients 
with malignant pleural effusions in order to reduce hospital length of stay in 
patients with a limited life expectancy.
DESIGN: Prospective case series.
SETTING: Two university hospital programs.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight patients with symptomatic pleural effusions associated 
with malignancy.
INTERVENTIONS: A 14F catheter was inserted percutaneously into the pleural space 
after radiographic confirmation of free fluid by lateral decubitus views. 
Following radiographic confirmation of complete fluid evacuation, a sclerosing 
agent (ie, talc slurry or bleomycin) was instilled into the pleural space. This 
was accomplished within 2 h of chest tube insertion, unless the tube was 
inserted in the evening or if the lung was trapped. After clamping the tube for 
90 min, the pleural space was drained for 2 h, after which the chest tube was 
removed. The intervention was scored as "successful" if no radiographic evidence 
of fluid reaccumulation was noted at 4 weeks. A "partial successful" score 
indicated reaccumulation of fluid that did not produce symptoms and did not 
require repeat pleural drainage of any sort. All other outcomes were scored as 
"unsuccessful."
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Forty chest tubes were inserted into 38 patients. Four 
procedures revealed the presence of a trapped lung and did not result in any 
attempt at pleurodesis. Five patients who received pleurodesis died in less than 
1 month and therefore were not evaluable. Two patients had technical problems 
with the chest tube and were not evaluable. Of the remaining 29 procedures, 
drainage procedures with pleurodesis were performed in 27 patients, a complete 
response was seen in 14 patients (48%), a partial response was seen in 9 
patients (31%), and 6 patients (21%) did not respond to pleurodesis. Chemical 
pleurodesis was completed as an outpatient procedure in only two patients. In 
one of these, the outcome was unsuccessful. In the remainder, insertion of the 
chest tube in the evening or additional medical problems necessitated hospital 
admission, but the entire procedure was completed within 24 h.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemical pleurodesis can be accomplished with good results in < 24 
h in the majority of patients with malignant pleural effusions.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.123.6.1895
PMID: 12796165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. CMAJ. 2003 Jun 10;168(12):1583.

Australia's MDs decry poor state of Aboriginal health.

Murray S.

PMCID: PMC156702
PMID: 12796350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Exp Biol. 2003 Jul;206(Pt 14):2303-11. doi: 10.1242/jeb.00399.

Life, death and membrane bilayers.

Hulbert AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Research Centre and Department of Biological Science, University of 
Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia. hulbert@uow.edu.au

Membrane bilayers are essential elements of life, and the synthesis of the 
hydrocarbons that make up membrane bilayers may have preceded the appearance of 
life on Earth. Membrane-associated processes are significant components of 
metabolism, and the acyl composition of membrane bilayers is associated with 
metabolic activity in a predictable manner. This has resulted in the "membrane 
pacemaker" theory of metabolism, which proposes that the relative balance 
between monounsaturated and long-chain polyunsaturated acyl chains in membrane 
bilayers is a fundamental determinant of metabolic rate of a species. The 
omega-3 polyunsaturated docosahexaenoate is an especially important component of 
membranes in this regard. Whilst it is suggested that the physical properties of 
membrane polyunsaturates are important with respect to their influence on 
metabolic rate, it is their chemistry that is important in aging. Membrane acyl 
composition is related to maximum lifespan in mammals and birds, probably via 
their role in lipid peroxidation. Calorie restriction modifies acyl composition 
of membrane bilayers and is associated with decreased membrane lipid 
peroxidation and lifespan extension. The membrane pacemaker theory of metabolism 
has given birth to the membrane pacemaker hypothesis of aging, which will 
require further investigation.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.00399
PMID: 12796449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Ann Surg. 2003 Jun;237(6):751-6; discussion 757-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.SLA.0000071560.76194.11.

Diabetes and hypertension in severe obesity and effects of gastric 
bypass-induced weight loss.

Sugerman HJ(1), Wolfe LG, Sica DA, Clore JN.

Author information:
(1)Division of General/Trauma Surgery, Department of Surgery, Medical College of 
Virginia of Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298-0519, USA. 
hsugerma@hsc.vcu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the preoperative relationships of hypertension and 
diabetes mellitus in severe obesity and the effects of gastric bypass 
(GBP)-induced weight loss.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Severe obesity is associated with multiple 
comorbidities, particularly hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus, that may 
affect life expectancy.
METHODS: The database of patients who had undergone GBP by one general surgeon 
at a university hospital between September 1981 and January 2000 was queried as 
to weight, body mass index (BMI), pre- and postoperative diabetes, hypertension, 
and other comorbidities, including sleep apnea, hypoventilation, 
gastroesophageal reflux, degenerative joint disease, urinary incontinence, 
venous stasis, and pseudotumor cerebri.
RESULTS: Of 1,025 patients treated, 15% had type 2 diabetes mellitus and 51% had 
hypertension. Of those with diabetes, 75% also had hypertension. There was a 
progressive increase in age between patients who had neither diabetes nor 
hypertension, either diabetes or hypertension, or both diabetes and 
hypertension. At 1 year after GBP (91% follow-up), patients lost 66 +/- 18% 
excess weight (%EWL) or 35 +/- 9% of their initial weight (%WL). Hypertension 
resolved in 69% and diabetes in 83%. Patients who resolved their hypertension or 
diabetes had greater %EWL and %WL than those who did not. African-American 
patients had a higher risk of hypertension than whites before GBP and were less 
likely to correct their hypertension after GBP. There was significant resolution 
of other obesity comorbidity problems. At 5 to 7 years after GBP (50% 
follow-up), %EWL was 59 +/- 24 and %WL was 31 +/- 13; resolution of hypertension 
was 66% and diabetes 86%.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension 
may be indirectly related to each other through the effects of obesity, but not 
directly as to cause and effect. The longer a person remains severely obese, the 
more likely he or she is to develop diabetes, hypertension, or both. GBP-induced 
weight loss is effective in correcting diabetes, hypertension, and other 
comorbidities but is related to the %EWL achieved. Severely obese 
African-Americans were more likely to have hypertension and respond less well to 
GBP surgery than whites. These data suggest that GBP surgery for severe obesity 
should be provided earlier to patients to prevent the development of diabetes 
and hypertension and their complications.

DOI: 10.1097/01.SLA.0000071560.76194.11
PMCID: PMC1514677
PMID: 12796570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Ann Surg. 2003 Jun;237(6):885-92; discussion 892-3. doi: 
10.1097/01.SLA.0000067741.10420.03.

Prospective randomized trial of carotid endarterectomy with 
polytetrafluoroethylene versus collagen-impregnated dacron (Hemashield) 
patching: late follow-up.

AbuRahma AF(1), Hopkins ES, Robinson PA, Deel JT, Agarwal S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert A. Byrd Health Sciences Center, West Virginia 
University, 3100 MacCorkle Avenue, Suite 603, Charleston, WV 25304, USA. 
ali.aburahma@came.org

OBJECTIVE: To compare the late clinical outcome and incidence of recurrent 
stenosis after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) 
versus Hemashield patching.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Several randomized trials have confirmed the advantages 
of patching over primary closure when performing CEA.
METHODS: Two hundred CEAs (180 patients) were randomized into 100 with PTFE 
patching and 100 with Hemashield. All patients underwent postoperative color 
duplex ultrasounds at 1, 6, and 12 months, and every year thereafter. The mean 
follow-up was 26 months. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate the risk of 
re-stenosis, stroke, and stroke-free survival. A multivariate analysis of 
various risk factors was also done.
RESULTS: Demographic and clinical characteristics were similar in both groups. 
The incidence of all ipsilateral strokes (early and late) was 8% (7% 
perioperative) for Hemashield versus 0% for PTFE patching. Both groups had 
similar mortality rates. The cumulative stroke-free rates at 6, 12, 24, and 36 
months were 93%, 93%, 93%, and 89% for Hemashield versus 100%, 100%, 100%, and 
100% for PTFE patching. The cumulative stroke-free survival rates at 6, 12, 24, 
and 36 months were 90%, 89%, 87%, and 79% for Hemashield versus 98%, 98%, 92%, 
and 92% for PTFE patching. Kaplan-Meier analysis also showed that freedom from 
50% or greater re-stenosis at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months was 89%, 81%, 73%, and 
66% for Hemashield versus 100%, 100%, 100%, and 92% for PTFE. Similarly, the 
freedom from 70% or greater re-stenosis at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months was 93%, 
91%, 86%, and 78% for Hemashield versus 100%, 100%, 100%, and 100% for PTFE. 
Univariate and multivariate analyses of demographic and preoperative risk 
factors showed that only Hemashield was significantly associated with a higher 
incidence of 70% or greater recurrent stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: PTFE patching was superior to Hemashield in lowering the incidence 
of postoperative ipsilateral strokes and late recurrent stenosis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.SLA.0000067741.10420.03
PMCID: PMC1514685
PMID: 12796586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Chemother. 2003 Apr;15(2):148-51. doi: 10.1179/joc.2003.15.2.148.

Prevalence of Brucella antibodies after acute brucellosis.

Almuneef M(1), Memish ZA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, King Fahad National Guard Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia.

Diagnosis of brucellosis is made by a demonstration of high brucella 
agglutination titer using the Standard Tube Agglutination Test (SAT) in the 
presence of compatible clinical symptoms. In an endemic area like Saudi Arabia, 
persistence of brucella antibodies after recovery from acute brucellosis is not 
uncommon. The aim of this study was to monitor brucella antibody titers after 
successful treatment and clinical cure, and identify factors influencing their 
persistence. Patients clinically cured of acute brucellosis, who have at least 
three serological follow-ups, were reviewed retrospectively. A titer of less 
than 1:320 was considered a "serological cure". One hundred sixteen (116) 
patients clinically cured of acute brucellosis were followed up for different 
lengths of time. All patients had no re-infection or relapse at the end of 
follow-up. The actuarial life-table analysis showed an increase in proportion of 
serologically cured from 8.3% in the first three months to 71.4% after two years 
or more, and the median time for serological cure was 18.5 months (SD = 3 
months). In univariate analysis, older age, male gender, and patients treated 
with less than three antibiotics are more likely to have persistent brucella 
antibodies of > or = 1:320 (P>0.2). The use of doxycycline in the treatment was 
associated with serological cure (51.1% vs. 27.5%) (P<0.05). However, with the 
Cox regression model none of the variables were statistically significant as a 
prognostic factor for serological cure (P>.05). In conclusion, brucella 
antibodies of 1:320 or higher can persist for more than 2 years after successful 
treatment and clinical cure. Re-evaluation of diagnostic titer of brucellosis is 
required in brucella-endemic countries.

DOI: 10.1179/joc.2003.15.2.148
PMID: 12797392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Minn Med. 2003 Apr;86(4):40-6.

New treatments for age-related macular degeneration.

Mittra RA(1).

Author information:
(1)VitreoRetinal Surgery, P.A., Edina, USA.

The estimated increase in life expectancy of the U.S. population will result in 
a greater incidence of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in the next few 
decades. Exudative AMD, which is characterized by choroidal neovascularization, 
carries a high risk of severe central vision loss and can compromise an 
individual's independence and quality of life. The increasing burden of AMD has 
created an acute need for more effective treatments. Results from a recent 
large-scale study have shown that supplementation with antioxidants and zinc 
reduces the risk of progression of dry to exudative AMD. Standard thermal laser 
photocoagulation can reduce the risk of central vision loss in exudative AMD in 
a limited number of patients. The recent advent of photodynamic laser therapy 
has increased the number of patients with exudative AMD who can benefit from 
treatment. This paper summarizes the clinical presentation of AMD and reviews 
treatments that are currently available, as well as treatments in development.

PMID: 12797657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Qual Life Res. 2003 Jun;12(4):363-71. doi: 10.1023/a:1023453405252.

Validity and feasibility of the use of condition-specific outcome measures in 
economic evaluation.

Stolk EA(1), Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: Usually, generic questionnaires such as the EQ-5D or Health Utility 
Index (HUI) are used to obtain utility scores for computing QALYs. Sometimes, 
however, application of these instruments is not possible, or the responsiveness 
is doubted. An alternative strategy is to attribute utility scores to health 
states of a condition-specific outcomes measure (CSOM). We explored the validity 
and feasibility of this strategy.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Our samples determined utility scores for the health states of 
the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) using time tradeoff (TTO). 
To reduce costs and time, the general population (n = 169) was interviewed in 
groups. We tested the validity of the group sessions in students. To test the 
extent of agreement between values obtained using the group and those obtained 
through individual administration, 63 students were interviewed individually and 
54 in groups.
RESULTS: The utility scores for the disease-specific health states showed good 
construct validity. Also, the criterion validity of the adapted TTO was 
confirmed.
DISCUSSION: Disease-specific utility scores can be used in QALY analysis by 
converting them to a generic scale. Efforts should be undertaken to prevent 
response spreading. Administrating TTO in groups could reduce the time and costs 
of TTO administration and render the strategy of determining utilities for 
condition-specific health states more feasible.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023453405252
PMID: 12797709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Eur J Intern Med. 2003 May;14(3):196-198. doi:
10.1016/s0953-6205(03)00036-0.

Bilateral fractured neck of the femur in an adult patient with cystic fibrosis.

Lim AY(1), Isopescu S, Thickett KM, Gumery LB, Darby AJ, Honeybourne D, 
Stableforth DE.

Author information:
(1)Adult Cystic Fibrosis Unit, Heartlands and Solihull Hospital NHS Trust, 
Bordesley Green East, B9 5SS, Birmingham, UK

A 34-year-old man with cystic fibrosis (CF) sustained a bilateral fractured neck 
of the femur during the course of six grand mal seizures. The fractures were 
successfully treated with bipolar hemi-arthroplasties. Several risk factors for 
osteoporosis were present. Bone pathology showed reduced femoral head bone 
density. Osteoporosis of the lumbar spine was confirmed by dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry. As the life expectancy of patients with CF continues to improve, 
osteoporosis and its sequelae will become more common. We should be aware of the 
increased risk of bilateral fractured neck of the femur following epileptic 
seizure in CF.

DOI: 10.1016/s0953-6205(03)00036-0
PMID: 12798220


986. Fertil Steril. 2003 Jun;79(6):1467-8; author reply 1468. doi: 
10.1016/s0015-0282(03)00408-4.

Life-table analysis falls short of the mark!

Steures P, Hompes PG, van der Steeg JW, Eijckemans R, Mol BW.

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2003 Jun;79(6):1468.

Comment on
    Fertil Steril. 2002 Nov;78(5):1088-95.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)00408-4
PMID: 12798908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Fertil Steril. 2003 Jun;79(6):1468. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)00410-2.

Life-table analysis falls short of the mark!

McDonough PG.

Comment on
    Fertil Steril. 2003 Jun;79(6):1467-8; author reply 1468.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)00410-2
PMID: 12798909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ophthalmology. 2003 Jun;110(6):1076-81. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00254-9.

Quality of life associated with visual loss: a time tradeoff utility analysis 
comparison with medical health states.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Sharma S, Busbee B.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 19031, USA. 
Lissa1011@aol.com

PURPOSE: To assess the visual utility values of patients with ocular disease and 
to compare these values with those of patients with systemic health states
DESIGN: Cross-sectional utility value assessment.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with ophthalmic diseases were interviewed in a 
one-on-one fashion using a standardized time tradeoff utility value assessment 
form. These values were compared with utility values for systemic health states 
present in the literature.
INTERVENTION: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Time tradeoff utility value on a scale ranging from 1.0 
(perfect visual health) to 0.0 (death). The ophthalmic patient groups were 
stratified into 4 visual groups dependent on the visual acuity in the 
better-seeing eye. The groups were as follows: group 1, 20/20 to 20/25; group 2, 
20/30 to 20/50; group 3, 20/60 to 20/100; group 4, 20/200 to no light 
perception.
RESULTS: A total of 500 subjects were enrolled in the study. The mean utility 
values for the visually stratified groups were: group 1, 0.88; group 2, 0.81; 
group 3, 0.72; group 4, 0.61. Comparable respective systemic health state 
utility values for each of the ophthalmic groups were: diabetes mellitus, status 
after kidney transplantation, moderate stroke, and moderately severe stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: Visual loss is associated with a substantial and measurable 
diminution in quality of life. This diminution in quality of life can be 
directly compared with that induced by systemic health states.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00254-9
PMID: 12799229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. JAMA. 2003 Jun 11;289(22):2941; author reply 2941-2. doi: 
10.1001/jama.289.22.2941-a.

Methods of estimating years of life lost due to obesity.

Peeters A, Bonneux L, Barendregt J, Nusselder W.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2003 Jan 8;289(2):187-93.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.289.22.2941-a
PMID: 12799399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Surg Endosc. 2003 Aug;17(8):1274-7. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8822-x. Epub
2003  Jun 13.

Laparoscopic surgery for stage I colorectal cancer.

Watanabe M(1), Hasegawa H, Yamamoto S, Baba H, Kitajima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, 
Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan. jstmr@sc.itc.keio.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: This study analyzed the short- and long-term outcomes of 
laparoscopic surgery (LS) in patients with stage I colorectal cancer.
METHODS: A total of 130 patients with stage I colorectal cancer underwent LS 
between 1992 and 1999. Median follow-up was 61 months (range, 30-114).
RESULTS: Oral intake was started on median postoperative day 1, and the median 
postoperative hospital stay was 8 days. Postoperative complications included 
wound sepsis in eight patients (6.2%), anastomotic leakage in four patients 
(3.1%), and bowel obstruction in three patients (2.3%). Five patients developed 
recurrences. No port site recurrences were observed. The calculated 5-year 
survival rate was 97.9%.
CONCLUSION: LS was shown to be technically feasible and oncologically sound for 
the treatment of patients with stage I colorectal cancer, and favorable short- 
and long-term outcomes were obtained.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8822-x
PMID: 12799889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. ANZ J Surg. 2003 Jun;73(6):427-30. doi:
10.1046/j.1445-2197.2003.t01-1-02648.x.

An economic perspective on evidence-based patient choice in surgery.

Salkeld G(1), Solomon MJ.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Outcomes Research Centre, School of Public Health, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. glenns@health.usyd.edua.au

The aim of the present paper is to provide an economic perspective on current 
and emerging issues relating to surgical decision-making. The central issue 
discussed in the paper is choice and how this relates to patient management. The 
paper explores three factors that may influence the nature of choice; they 
are--evidence-based medicine, patient involvement in making choices and the role 
of cost-effectiveness analysis in surgery. Together, these factors are driving a 
shift from the traditional model of care based on medical beneficence to one 
based more on individual patient autonomy. This shift has been described as a 
move towards 'evidence-based patient choice' (EBPC). The concept of EBPC is 
relatively new and ill defined. Yet it encapsulates what is happening now and 
what will occur more dramatically in the future; that is, the nature of the 
relationship between surgeon and patient is changing. We hope that this paper 
will provoke discussion on the concept of EBPC and cost-effectiveness analysis 
in surgical decision-making.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1445-2197.2003.t01-1-02648.x
PMID: 12801343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2003 May 25;1:17. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-17.

Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) - validation and comparison 
to the WOMAC in total knee replacement.

Roos EM(1), Toksvig-Larsen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Lund University Hospital, SE-221 85 Lund, Sweden. 
Ewa.Roos@ort.lu.se

BACKGROUND: The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) is an 
extension of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthrtis Index 
(WOMAC), the most commonly used outcome instrument for assessment of 
patient-relevant treatment effects in osteoarthritis. KOOS was developed for 
younger and/or more active patients with knee injury and knee osteoarthritis and 
has in previous studies on these groups been the more responsive instrument 
compared to the WOMAC. Some patients eligible for total knee replacement have 
expectations of more demanding physical functions than required for daily 
living. This encouraged us to study the use of the Knee injury and 
Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) to assess the outcome of total knee 
replacement.
METHODS: We studied the test-retest reliability, validity and responsiveness of 
the Swedish version LK 1.0 of the KOOS when used to prospectively evaluate the 
outcome of 105 patients (mean age 71.3, 66 women) after total knee replacement. 
The follow-up rates at 6 and 12 months were 92% and 86%, respectively.
RESULTS: The intraclass correlation coefficients were over 0.75 for all 
subscales indicating sufficient test-retest reliability. Bland-Altman plots 
confirmed this finding. Over 90% of the patients regarded improvement in the 
subscales Pain, Symptoms, Activities of Daily Living, and knee-related Quality 
of Life to be extremely or very important when deciding to have their knee 
operated on indicating good content validity. The correlations found in 
comparison to the SF-36 indicated the KOOS measured expected constructs. The 
most responsive subscale was knee-related Quality of Life. The effect sizes of 
the five KOOS subscales at 12 months ranged from 1.08 to 3.54 and for the WOMAC 
from 1.65 to 2.56.
CONCLUSION: The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) is a valid, 
reliable, and responsive outcome measure in total joint replacement. In 
comparison to the WOMAC, the KOOS improved validity and may be at least as 
responsive as the WOMAC.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-17
PMCID: PMC161802
PMID: 12801417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Radiology. 2003 Aug;228(2):515-22. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2282020915. Epub 2003
Jun  11.

Cost-effectiveness of PET in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease.

McMahon PM(1), Araki SS, Sandberg EA, Neumann PJ, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Zero 
Emerson Place, Suite 2H, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of positron emission tomography 
(PET) in the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) in community-dwelling patients 
with mild or moderate dementia who present to specialized AD centers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to compare costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated with strategies involving single 
photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), dynamic susceptibility-weighted 
contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and PET as 
functional imaging adjuncts to the standard clinical work-up. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed to examine changes in test characteristics, 
health-related quality-of-life survey instruments, therapeutic effectiveness, 
and treatment rules.
RESULTS: The use of PET to confirm the results of the standard clinical work-up 
cost more but yielded fewer benefits than a strategy in which dynamic 
susceptibility-weighted contrast-enhanced MR imaging was substituted for the 
typically performed structural computed tomography. This relationship remained 
stable in scenarios in which standard diagnostic work-up accuracy, drug 
treatment effectiveness, and version of the Health Utilities Index were altered. 
Dynamic susceptibility-weighted contrast-enhanced MR imaging cost US dollars 
598800 per QALY gained (range, US dollars 74400 to US dollars 1.9 million per 
QALY), compared with the cost of the standard diagnostic work-up. Treating all 
patients with dementia was the dominant imaging strategy, except when side 
effects in patients with non-AD-related dementia were modeled. In all scenarios, 
SPECT yielded fewer benefits than other strategies at a higher cost.
CONCLUSION: PET may have high diagnostic accuracy, but adding it to the standard 
diagnostic regimen at AD clinics would yield limited, if any, benefits at very 
high costs.

Copyright RSNA, 2003.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2282020915
PMID: 12802006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Surg Endosc. 2003 Nov;17(11):1826-32. doi: 10.1007/s00464-002-8960-1. Epub
2003  Jun 17.

Safety and efficacy of laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation of hepatocellular 
carcinoma in patients with liver cirrhosis.

Santambrogio R(1), Podda M, Zuin M, Bertolini E, Bruno S, Cornalba GP, Costa M, 
Montorsi M.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Epato-biliare, Dipartimento di Medicina e Chirurgia San 
Paolo, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via A. di Rudinì 8, Italy. 
rsantambrogio@mclink.it

BACKGROUND: The optimal treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is surgical 
resection. However, only a small percentage of patients are operative 
candidates. Percutaneous radiofrequency interstitial thermal ablation (RITA) has 
been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of unresectable HCC. Recent 
advances in laparoscopic ultrasound have greatly improved the accuracy in 
detecting intrahepatic HCC nodules, many of which were missed by computed 
tomography. Our objective was to introduce a novel operative combination of 
laparoscopic ultrasound with laparoscopic RITA in the treatment of HCC.
METHODS: Eighty-eight patients with HCC in liver cirrhosis were submitted to 
laparoscopic RITA under sonographic guide. Most patients were in Child's A class 
of liver function. Patients with large tumors (> 5 cm), portal vein thrombosis, 
or severe liver disease (Child's C class) were excluded.
RESULTS: The laparoscopic RITA procedure was completed in 86 of 88 patients (98% 
feasibility rate). Laparoscopy with laparoscopic ultrasound identified 23 new 
malignant lesions (27%) in comparison with the results of preoperative imaging. 
A total of 127 lesions were treated by RITA. There was no operative mortality. 
Sixty-one patients had no complication (71%). After a mean follow-up of 14.3 +/- 
11.6 months, a complete response with a 100% necrosis was achieved in 70 of 83 
patients examined (86%). During follow-up, 9 patients (11%) locally recurred at 
the RITA site and 38 patients (46%) had new malignant nodules.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic RITA of HCC proved to be a safe and effective 
technique in the short term. This technique may be indicated when the 
percutaneous approach to the lesion is very difficult or if the patient is too 
ill to undergo laparotomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-002-8960-1
PMID: 12802646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Qual Life Res. 2003;12 Suppl 1:3-16. doi: 10.1023/a:1023547632545.

The significance of quality of life in health care.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. rkaplan@ucsd.edu

This paper compares a traditional biomedical model with an outcomes model for 
evaluating health care. The traditional model emphasizes diagnosis and 
disease-specific outcomes. In contrast, the outcomes model emphasizes life 
expectancy and health-related quality of life. Although the models are similar, 
they lead to different conclusions with regard to some interventions. For some 
conditions, diagnosis and treatment may reduce the impact of a particular 
disease without extending life expectancy or improving quality of life. Older 
individuals with multiple co-morbidities may not benefit from treatments for a 
particular disease if competing health problems threaten life or reduce quality 
of life. In preventive medicine, diagnosis of disease is made more difficult 
because of ambiguity, uncertainty, lead-time bias, and length bias. In some 
circumstances, successful diagnosis and treatment may actually reduce life 
expectancy or overall life quality. Example applications of the outcomes model 
from clinical policy analysis, individual decision making and shared 
decision-making are offered. The outcomes model has received little attention in 
dental health care but may have parallels to applications in other areas of 
medicine.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023547632545
PMID: 12803306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Health Serv Manage Res. 2003 May;16(2):96-105. doi:
10.1258/095148403321591410.

Tools of the trade: a comparative analysis of approaches to priority setting in 
healthcare.

Mitton C(1), Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Program, University of Calgary, 3330 Hospital Drive NW, 
Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada. crmitton@ucalgary.ca

In many countries, local managers and clinicians have been given responsibility 
to set health priorities and allocate resources accordingly. Although tools have 
been suggested for use in aiding this process, knowledge of these tools within 
health regions is lacking and comparative analysis in the literature is limited. 
Several approaches to priority setting are critiqued from both practical and 
theoretical perspectives, and a tangible way forward for such activity is 
provided. The approaches analysed include: needs assessment, core services, 
economic evaluation including quality-adjusted life year league tables, and 
programme budgeting and marginal analysis (PBMA). Needs assessment fails to 
recognize underlying economic principles of opportunity cost and the margin, 
while core services ignores the margin and has had limited impact in practice. 
Economic evaluations can consider marginal costs and benefits, but cannot always 
