Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Section of Bone Marrow Transplantation and Leukemia, 
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 
63110-1093, USA. wblum@im.wustl.edu

High-dose melphalan has been commonly used as conditioning for amyloidosis with 
considerable toxicity. We hypothesized that the novel conditioning regimen of 
550 cGy total body irradiation (TBI) alone for autologous peripheral blood stem 
cell transplantation would have reduced organ toxicity and thus permit safer 
transplantation of primary amyloidosis patients, even those with poor risk 
disease. The comprehensive regimen included pretransplantation chemotherapy, 
single-dose TBI alone (550 cGy at 30 cGy/min) conditioning, and 
post-transplantation interferon-alpha maintenance. Thirteen patients were 
enrolled in this feasibility study. Patients with multiorgan involvement were 
included; 10 patients had poor or intermediate risk disease. Cardiac toxicity 
was significant. Treatment-related mortality through 100 days 
post-transplantation was 15% and was caused by cardiac mortality. One patient 
died from arrhythmia after receiving TBI; 2 patients had grade IV cardiac 
toxicity (with subsequent complete recovery). One patient died 1 month after 
mobilization from progressive cardiomyopathy and never received conditioning. 
However, noncardiac organ toxicity was mild. No patient required parenteral 
nutrition support; no patient developed mucositis; and no patient experienced 
gastrointestinal bleeding following transplantation. The complete hematologic 
remission rate was 45%, with pretransplantation chemotherapy being the most 
active part of the regimen. Survival estimates from enrollment to 1 and 2 years 
post-transplantation were 66% and 47%, respectively. Causes of death were 
disease progression (6), myelodysplasia (1), arrhythmia following TBI (1), and 
congestive heart failure after mobilization (1). In this cohort of primary 
amyloidosis patients, the transplantation regimen of 550 cGy TBI was feasible 
and associated with modest treatment-related mortality. Efficacy with TBI 
conditioning may be reduced compared with high-dose melphalan, but this should 
be explored in a future trial with a larger cohort of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1083-8791(03)00106-x
PMID: 12813448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Can J Cardiol. 2003 Jun;19(7):790-6.

Application of the 1998 Canadian cholesterol guidelines to a military 
population: health benefits and cost effectiveness of improved cholesterol 
management.

Spaans JN(1), Coyle D, Fodor G, Nair R, Vaillancourt R, Grover SA, Coupal L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Canada. johannaspaans@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether statins are underprescribed in the Canadian 
military. The cost effectiveness of statin therapy in patients identified by the 
1998 Canadian cholesterol interim guidelines was also explored.
METHODS: Charts of 1424 Canadian military personnel (age 45 or older) were 
reviewed at 11 Canadian bases. Risk factors and cholesterol values were used to 
identify drug therapy candidates. Cost effectiveness ratios and health benefits 
in terms of years of life saved for statin therapy were estimated for the 
candidates using a validated cardiovascular disease life expectancy model.
RESULTS: Of the 1313 personnel not on lipid lowering medication, 172 were 
identified as drug therapy candidates. An average of 2.89 years of life saved 
was forecast for the identified personnel, at an average cost of less than 
10,000 dollars per year of life saved.
CONCLUSIONS: The health benefits of statin therapy in this population are 
substantial and the cost effectiveness is acceptable. Statin therapy warrants 
greater attention as a preventive strategy for coronary artery disease.

PMID: 12813612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Zentralbl Chir. 2003 May;128(5):406-10. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-40037.

[Endoscopic biliary drainage in patients with pancreatic cancer].

[Article in German]

Kahl S(1), Zimmermann S, Pross M, Schulz HU, Malfertheiner P.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie und Infektiologie, 
Otto-von-Guericke Universität Magdeburg. stefan.kahl@medizin.uni-magdeburg.de

Obstructive jaundice is a common clinical sign in patients with pancreatic 
cancer. 52% of all patients with a potentially resectable pancreatic cancer 
suffer from painless obstructive jaundice. There are no prospective studies 
showing a beneficial effect of preoperative drainage in patients with resectable 
pancreatic cancer. Morbidity (53%) and mortality (15%) in patients without 
preoperative biliary drainage are not significantly different from those who had 
endoscopic drainage preoperatively (morbidity 41%; mortality 15%). However, 
there are some logistic reasons for preoperative drainage, especially if surgery 
is delayed. In cases of nonresectable pancreatic cancer endoscopic drainage for 
palliation of obstructive jaundice is the method of choice. The decision between 
metallic and plastic stents for palliation is based on expected survival time 
and quality of life. Implantation of metal stents is the method of choice in 
patients with life expectancy exceeding six months. Scheduled three months 
exchange of plastic stents is recommended to avoid complications. After a six 
months interval about 70% of patients with scheduled exchange are without 
symptoms, compared to about 40% of patients who had exchange of plastic stents 
on demand. Scheduled three months exchange of plastic stents leeds to a patency 
rate of plastic stents comparable to those of metallic stents.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-40037
PMID: 12813640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Health Bull (Edinb). 2000 Jul;58(4):316-21.

Life expectancy calculations for postcode sectors and their use for monitoring 
inequalities in the nation's health.

Bremner S(1), Gordon A, Watt G, Womersley J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London.

OBJECTIVE: To describe how life expectancy calculations can be used to 
demonstrate differences in mortality between populations of different 
socioeconomic status at each population census.
DESIGN: Population data were obtained in five-year age-sex and deprivation 
groups at postcode sector level for the Greater Glasgow Health Board area for 
the censuses of 1981 and 1991. The numbers of deaths for the same groups were 
obtained for the three-year periods 1980-82 and 1990-92. Life expectancy tables 
were derived by applying mortality rates calculated from these data to a 
synthetic cohort of individuals. Regression analyses were applied to the tables 
thus derived to examine the relationships between census period, level of 
deprivation and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Over the period 1980/82 to 1990/92 life expectancy of the age group 0-4 
years increased by 2.1 years in males and 2.9 years in females, increases being 
greater in the more affluent areas. Differences in life expectancy between the 
geographically defined most deprived and most affluent areas increased from 7.4 
to 9.0 years in males and from 5.9 to 6.0 years in females.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy is increasing in all socioeconomic groups, but 
particularly in the most affluent. We suggest that life expectancy values should 
be published routinely for different socioeconomic groupings. Over time these 
would illustrate more clearly the relationships between health policy and health 
outcomes, and would demonstrate whether policies are reducing inequalities and 
generally improving health.

PMID: 12813811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 May-Jun;18(3):417-23.

A prospective multicenter clinical trial of 3i machined-surface implants: 
results after 6 years of follow-up.

Weng D(1), Jacobson Z, Tarnow D, Hürzeler MB, Faehn O, Sanavi F, Barkvoll P, 
Stach RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, School of Dental Medicine, Bavarian 
Julius-Maximilians-University of Würzburg, Germany. 
dietmar.weng@mail.uni-wuerzburg.de

PURPOSE: In this prospective multicenter clinical study, 1,179 3i standard 
threaded and self-tapping implants were followed for up to 6 years and monitored 
according to established success criteria.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 493 patients (240 men and 253 women) with a 
mean age of 45.1 years at implant surgery were enrolled at 6 research centers 
after being screened for exclusion criteria. Implants were placed according to a 
2-stage surgical protocol with a minimum of 4 months of submerged healing in the 
mandible and 6 months in the maxilla. Restorations included 633 prostheses, the 
majority of which were fixed partial dentures in the posterior mandible or 
maxilla or single-tooth replacements in the anterior maxilla.
RESULTS: One hundred four implants (8.8%) did not meet success criteria and were 
designated as failures, and 222 implants (18.8%) were lost to follow-up. The 
cumulative success rate according to life table methods was 91.1% at 6 years.
DISCUSSION: Sixty percent of the failed implants were short (< or = 10 mm long), 
and their cumulative success rate as a group at 6 years was 89.0%, compared to 
93.1% for longer implants (P < .05). Thirty-three percent of all failures were 
implants placed in the posterior maxilla, for a 5-year cumulative success rate 
of 87.4%.
CONCLUSION: It appears that limited bone dimensions and poor-quality bone have 
an impact on the performance of these machined-surface implants.

PMID: 12814318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Jun;38(6):615-8. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00070-6.

Is life span extension in single gene long-lived Caenorhabditis elegans mutants 
due to hypometabolism?

Van Voorhies WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Program, MSC 3MLS, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, 
NM 88003-8001, USA. wvanvoor@nmsu.edu

The nematode C. elegans is widely used in aging research largely because of the 
identification of numerous gene mutations that significantly increase worm 
longevity. While model organisms such as C. elegans can provide important 
insights into aging it is also important to consider the limitations of these 
systems. For example, ectothermic (poikilothermic) organisms are able to 
tolerate a much larger metabolic depression than humans and considering only 
chronological longevity when assaying for long-lived mutants provides a limited 
perspective on the mechanisms by which longevity is increased. In order to 
provide true insight into the aging process additional physiological processes, 
such as metabolic rate, must also be assayed. Currently it is controversial when 
long-lived C. elegans mutants retain normal metabolic function. Resolving this 
issue requires accurately measuring the metabolic rate of C. elegans under 
conditions that minimize environmental stress. Comparisons of metabolic rate 
between long-lived and wild-type C. elegans under more optimized conditions 
indicate that the extended longevity of at least some long-lived C. elegans 
mutants may be due to a reduction in metabolic rate, rather than an alteration 
of a metabolically-independent genetic mechanism specific to aging. Consistent 
with this assertion are studies showing that the disruption of mitochondrial 
function in C. elegans can extend worm's longevity, but typically causes worms 
to grow and develop more slowly than wild-type animals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00070-6
PMID: 12814796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Jun;38(6):699-704. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00068-8.

Supplementation with vitamin E fails to attenuate oxidative damage in aged mice.

Sumien N(1), Forster MJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Institute for Aging and 
Alzheimer's Disease Research, University of North Texas Health Science Center at 
Fort Worth, 3500 Camp Bowie Blvd, Fort Worth, TX 76107-2699, USA.

The validity of the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging has sometimes been 
questioned because the administration of low molecular weight antioxidants such 
as alpha-tocopherol does not retard the aging process and extend maximum life 
span. Thus, the goal of the current study was to determine if increased oral 
intake of alpha-tocopheryl acetate indeed results in its augmentation in tissues 
or in their mitochondria, and whether or not this causes an attenuation of 
oxidative damage. Groups of relatively old (21 months) experimental mice were 
fed a diet supplemented with 1.65 g/kg alpha-tocopheryl acetate or the base diet 
(NIH-31), for 13 weeks. Supplementation with alpha-tocopheryl acetate increased 
alpha-tocopherol concentrations approximately 3-5-fold in plasma and in tissue 
homogenates and approximately 2-3-fold in mitochondria from liver, skeletal 
muscle and heart of the mice. However, supplementation affected neither the rate 
of heart mitochondrial H(2)O(2) generation nor products of lipid peroxidation 
(thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances) and protein oxidation (protein 
carbonyls). Thus, in contrast to life-extending interventions such as caloric 
restriction, that can produce relatively rapid decreases in oxidative damage, 
supplementation with alpha-tocopheryl acetate had little or no impact on the 
steady-state level of cellular oxidative damage. This difference could explain 
why alpha-tocopherol administration has been found to be ineffective in the 
extension of the life span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00068-8
PMID: 12814806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Circulation. 2003 Jun 17;107(23 Suppl 1):I17-21. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000078466.72504.AC.

Venous thromboembolism and cancer: risks and outcomes.

Lee AY(1), Levine MN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
alee@mcmaster.ca

Cancer and its treatments are well-recognized risk factors for venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). Evidence suggests that the absolute risk depends on the 
tumor type, the stage or extent of the cancer, and treatment with antineoplastic 
agents. Furthermore, age, surgery, immobilization, and other comorbid features 
will also influence the overall likelihood of thrombotic complications, as they 
do in patients without cancer. The role of hereditary thrombophilia in patients 
with cancer and thrombosis is still unclear, and screening for this condition in 
cancer patients is not indicated. The most common malignancies associated with 
thrombosis are those of the breast, colon, and lung, reflecting the prevalence 
of these malignancies in the general population. When adjusted for disease 
prevalence, the cancers most strongly associated with thrombotic complications 
are those of the pancreas, ovary, and brain. Idiopathic thrombosis can be the 
first manifestation of an occult malignancy. However, intensive screening for 
cancer in patients with VTE often does not improve survival and is not generally 
warranted. Independently of the timing of cancer diagnosis (before or after the 
VTE), the life expectancy of cancer patients with VTE is relatively short, 
because of both deaths from recurrent VTE and the cancer itself. Patients with 
cancer and acute VTE who take anticoagulants for an extended period are at 
increased risk of recurrent VTE and bleeding. A recent randomized trial, the 
Randomized Comparison of Low Molecular Weight Heparin versus Oral Anticoagulant 
Therapy for Long-Term Anticoagulation in Cancer Patients with Venous 
Thromboembolism (CLOT) study, showed that low molecular weight heparin may be a 
better treatment option for this group of patients. The antineoplastic effects 
of anticoagulants are being actively investigated with promising preliminary 
results.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000078466.72504.AC
PMID: 12814981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2003 Jul;10(3):177-91. doi:
10.1076/opep.10.3.177.15084.

Health-related quality of life of cataract patients: cross-cultural comparisons 
of utility and psychometric measures.

Lee JE(1), Fos PJ, Zuniga MA, Kastl PR, Sung JH.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to assess the presence and/or absence of 
cross-cultural differences or similarities between Korean and United States 
cataract patients. A systematic assessment was performed using utility and 
psychometric measures in the study population.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A cross-sectional study design was used to examine the 
comparison of preoperative outcomes measures in cataract patients in Korea and 
the United States. Study subjects were selected using non-probabilistic methods 
and included 132 patients scheduled for cataract surgery in one eye.
PARTICIPANTS: Subjects were adult cataract patients at Samsung and Kunyang 
General Hospital in Seoul, Korea, and Tulane University Hospital and Clinics in 
New Orleans, Louisiana.
MEASUREMENTS: Preoperative utility was assessed using the verbal rating scale 
and standard reference gamble techniques. Current preoperative health status was 
assessed using the SF-36 and VF-14 surveys. Current preoperative Snellen visual 
acuity was used as a clinical measure of vision status.
RESULTS: Korean patients were more likely to be younger (p = 0.001), less 
educated (p = 0.001), and to have worse Snellen visual acuity (p = 0.002) than 
United States patients. Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) revealed that 
in contrast to Korean patients, United States patients were assessed to have 
higher scoring in general health, vitality, VF-14, and verbal rating for visual 
health. This higher scoring trend persisted after controlling for age, gender, 
education and Snellen visual acuity. The difference in health-related quality of 
life (HRQOL) between the two countries was quite clear, especially in the older 
age and highly educated group.
CONCLUSIONS: Subjects in Korea and the United States were significantly 
different in quality of life, functional status and clinical outcomes. Subjects 
in the United States had more favorable health outcomes than those in Korea. 
These differences may be caused by multiple factors, including country-specific 
differences in economic status, health care system, cultural value system, and 
health policy. Cross-cultural differences should be considered when making 
international comparisons of quality of life.

DOI: 10.1076/opep.10.3.177.15084
PMID: 12815492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Periodontol. 2003 May;74(5):695-702. doi: 10.1902/jop.2003.74.5.695.

Early functional loading at 5 days for Brånemark implants placed into edentulous 
mandibles: a prospective, open-ended, longitudinal study.

Becker W(1), Becker BE, Huffstetlert S.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, School of Dentistry, Department of 
Periodontology, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Branebill@comcast.net

BACKGROUND: Traditionally, implants placed in the mandible heal for 3 to 4 
months before they are loaded. In maxillae, healing time usually takes 5 to 6 
months. The purpose of this study was to evaluate placement of 4 to 6 implants 
in edentulous mandibles. The implants were placed between mental foramina for 
support of non-metal, reinforced, fixed, implant-supported provisional 
prostheses. A unique method was used to convert existing dentures into fixed, 
implant-supported appliances. The implants were functionally loaded early (5 
days).
METHODS: Twenty patients with edentulous mandibles or with 2 to 3 remaining 
mandibular teeth were enrolled in this open-ended, prospective study. Existing 
dentures without porcelain teeth were modified for use as a surgical guide. 
These dentures were used as temporary fixed prostheses. Patients were to have 
metal-reinforced appliances fabricated by the referring dentists after 3 to 4 
months of healing. After implant installation, prosthetic abutments were fixed 
to the implants and tightened to 20 Ncm without counter torque. Bone quality and 
quantity as well as implant size and position were entered into a computer 
database. Impression copings were attached to the abutments, and the modified 
denture was used for a pick-up impression. After the impression was made, 
implant replicas were fitted to the impression copings and casts were poured. 
Gold cylinders were processed into the tissue side of the denture. Laboratory 
screws were used to attach the denture with gold cylinders to abutment replicas. 
The dentures were processed, polished, and inserted 5 days after implant 
surgery. Radiographs were taken to verify proper fit of the gold cylinders to 
the prosthetic abutments (baseline). Radiographs were taken at each follow-up 
visit and were used to measure changes in crestal bone levels.
RESULTS: Twenty patients received 92 machined-surface commercially pure titanium 
implants in fully edentulous mandibles. Of the total number of implants placed, 
two were lost between 0 to 1 year and one between 1 to 2 years. Twenty patients 
with a total of 90 implants were followed between 0 to 1 year. Fourteen patients 
have been followed between 1 to 2 years, 7 between 2 to 3 years, and 2 between 3 
to 4 years. One patient died after 9 months of loading (4 implants loaded, 2 
sleeper implants); another died between 1 to 2 years. A total of 6 implants 
remained buried (sleepers). At 2 years, the cumulative success rate is 96.3%. 
Survival of the implant bridges is 100.00%. The mean crestal bone level at 5 
days for 11 patients was 2.1 mm (SD 0.526, SE mean 0.159) (measurements were not 
available for the deceased patient), while the mean level at an average of 15 
months was 1.96 mm (SD 0.585, SE mean 0.176). Differences between the 
measurements taken at 5 days with those taken at an average of 15 months were 
not significant (P < 0.683).
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study indicate that 4 to 5 implants can be placed 
and loaded within 5 days of implant insertion with high success (96.3%). Success 
rates for the interim and final prosthesis are 100%. A simple, possibly 
cost-effective method of using non-metal reinforced dentures as interim fixed, 
provisional dentures has been described. Impressions and registrations for 
making the prosthesis can be made at the time of implant installation, and this 
method is accurate enough to make provisional restorations. The modified denture 
can function as an interim fixed, implant-supported prosthesis for up to 30 
months. Results of x-ray measurements indicate stable crestal bone levels for up 
to an average of 15 months.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2003.74.5.695
PMID: 12816303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Stroke. 2003 Jul;34(7):1615-6. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000078662.05349.29. Epub 
2003 Jun 19.

Editorial comment--Decline in stroke mortality: splitters and lumpers.

Torbey MT.

Comment on
    Stroke. 2003 Jul;34(7):1610-4.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000078662.05349.29
PMID: 12817101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Stroke. 2003 Jul;34(7):1610-4. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000078661.72578.0A. Epub 
2003 Jun 19.

Improvements in treatment of coronary heart disease and cessation of stroke 
mortality rate decline.

Peeters A(1), Bonneux L, Barendregt JJ, Mackenbach JP; Netherlands Epidemiology 
and Demography Compression of Morbidity Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR 
Rotterdam, Netherlands. peeters@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Comment in
    Stroke. 2003 Jul;34(7):1615-6.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Many countries observed rapidly declining stroke 
mortality rates during 1970-1990, followed by a slowing or a cessation of this 
decline. This slowing was seen for both sexes and all ages. Here we test the 
hypothesis that improvements in coronary heart disease (CHD) survival can 
explain this slowing through an increase in the number of CHD survivors at an 
increased risk for stroke.
METHODS: We created multistate life-table models based on the survival 
experience of 46 years of follow-up of the Framingham Heart Study cohort. 
Improvements in survival after CHD were modeled by decreasing mortality rates 
for those with CHD. We analyzed whether improved CHD survival could result in a 
>3% increase in annual stroke mortality rates, which would be enough to 
eliminate the previously observed decline.
RESULTS: CHD survival improvements led to an increase in the number of stroke 
deaths but also a concomitant increase in the total population size. Under no 
circumstances was there an annual increase in stroke mortality rates approaching 
3% for both sexes and for younger and older age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The hypothesis that increases in the numbers of people with CHD, as 
a consequence of improvements in CHD survival, explain the observed slowing of 
the stroke mortality rate decline must be rejected. The true explanation is also 
likely to be a factor that changed markedly around 1990, but with more direct 
effects on stroke mortality.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000078661.72578.0A
PMID: 12817102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol. 2003 Jun;17(2):163-77. doi: 
10.1016/s1521-6896(03)00010-7.

Pathophysiological changes in the elderly.

Tonner PH(1), Kampen J, Scholz J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University 
Hospital Kiel, Schwanenweg 21, D-24105 Kiel, Germany.

Demographic data indicate an increasing workload of geriatric anaesthesia due to 
advancing life expectancy and reduced thresholds for high-invasive and high-risk 
surgery in the elderly. Chronological and biological age may be inconsistent, 
and the existence of age-related changes may vary between organ systems in the 
same individual. Age itself is not an illness, but is the most important 
contributing factor for perioperative complications and adverse outcome when the 
overall narrowed margins of organ function reserve are transgressed during the 
perioperative period. Age-related changes in the cardiovascular, pulmonary, 
nervous, metabolic and locomotive systems that are frequently present in the 
elderly are discussed with regard to their potential relevance to 
anaesthesiology. In conclusion, listing current diagnoses will not be sufficient 
in the assessment of the geriatric patient because age-related changes do not 
necessarily manifest as pathological entities. Rather, pre-operative examination 
should focus on determination of individual margins of organ function reserve.

DOI: 10.1016/s1521-6896(03)00010-7
PMID: 12817912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Am J Prev Med. 2003 Jul;25(1):65-75. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(03)00090-4.

Integrated perinatal health framework. A multiple determinants model with a life 
span approach.

Misra DP(1), Guyer B, Allston A.

Author information:
(1)Women's and Children's Health Policy Center, Department of Population and 
Family Health Sciences, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. dmisra@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Despite great strides in improving prenatal care utilization among 
American women, key perinatal indicators have remained stagnant or worsened in 
the past decade, and the United States continues to rank near the bottom 
compared to other developed countries. A new approach is needed if we are to 
achieve improvements in perinatal health.
METHODS: To propose a new framework that integrates a "life span" approach with 
a multiple determinants model.
RESULTS: We recognize that (1) powerful influences on outcome occur long before 
pregnancy begins; (2) pregnancy outcome is shaped by social, psychological, 
behavioral, environmental, and biological forces; and (3) the demography of 
pregnancy has changed dramatically in the last few decades with more women 
delaying their first birth. Approaches that simultaneously consider the entire 
life span as well as multiple determinants may need to be adopted. We propose a 
framework that integrates these approaches and is supported by the research 
literature. The life span perspective focuses attention toward the 
preconceptional and interconceptional periods as targets for intervention in 
improving perinatal health. The multiple determinants model distinguishes among 
concepts of disease, health and functioning, and well-being for both women and 
their offspring.
CONCLUSIONS: Our intent is to influence how policymakers, public health 
professionals, clinicians, and researchers approach perinatal health.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(03)00090-4
PMID: 12818312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Anesth Analg. 2003 Jul;97(1):247-52, table of contents. doi: 
10.1213/01.ane.0000066520.30763.b8.

Small dose bupivacaine-fentanyl spinal analgesia combined with morphine for 
labor.

Hess PE(1), Vasudevan A, Snowman C, Pratt SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA. phess@caregroup.harvard.edu

We investigated the duration of labor analgesia produced by a small dose of 
spinal bupivacaine/fentanyl alone or in combination with a small dose of 
morphine. Sixty parturients were enrolled in this placebo-controlled, 
double-blinded, randomized trial. All women received a spinal injection of 12.5 
micro g of fentanyl with 2 mg of bupivacaine. The morphine group (MBF) also 
received 125 micro g of morphine; the placebo group (BF) received saline. Pain 
scores were <3 of 10 within 10 min of injection. The median duration of 
analgesia was similar between groups (89 min versus 84 min; P = not 
significant), and only 20% of the MBF group experienced prolonged analgesia. 
During subsequent epidural analgesia, the MBF group had a significantly lesser 
rate of breakthrough pain (0.15 +/- 0.14 episodes per hour versus 0.26 +/- 0.18 
episodes per hour; P = 0.02). Also, during the first 24 h postpartum, the MBF 
group required significantly fewer medications (3.3 +/- 3.7 doses versus 4.7 +/- 
3.5 doses; P = 0.04). Intrathecal injection of this small dose of 
bupivacaine/fentanyl produced a rapid onset of labor analgesia; the addition of 
a small dose of morphine did not significantly prolong analgesia, but it 
improved subsequent pain relief, as measured by the rate of breakthrough pain 
and postpartum medication requirements. This may provide a clinically useful 
means of improving intra- and postpartum pain relief.
IMPLICATIONS: A small dose of intrathecal fentanyl 12.5 micro g and bupivacaine 
2 mg produces effective labor analgesia lasting for approximately 85 min. The 
addition of a small 125- micro g dose of morphine improves pain control during 
subsequent epidural analgesia and reduces the requirements for postpartum pain 
medications.

DOI: 10.1213/01.ane.0000066520.30763.b8
PMID: 12818975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2003 Jul;26(1):74-80. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1773.

Mass screening on abdominal aortic aneurysm in men aged 60 to 65 years in The 
Netherlands. Impact on life expectancy and cost-effectiveness using a Markov 
model.

Boll AP(1), Severens JL, Verbeek AL, van der Vliet JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Canisius-Wilhelmina Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To predict the costs and effects on life expectancy of an AAA 
screening programme.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed to compare the effects of a single 
screening for a cohort of men 60-65 years with the current no screening 
strategy. The following health states were distinguished: no AAA, unknown small 
AAA, follow-up small AAA, unknown large AAA, repaired AAA, rejected large AAA 
and death. Transition rates between the health states were simulated using cycle 
times of one year. Transition probabilities were derived from literature and a 
previous feasibility study. Incremental costs per life year saved were 
calculated. Sensitivity analyses and discounting for future effects were 
performed.
RESULTS: The expected individual AAA costs for non-screening and AAA screening 
were euro; 196 and euro; 530 respectively. A difference of 3.5 months life 
expectancy was found in favour of screening leading to euro; 1176/life-year 
gained. Costs increased as compliance fell. With a discount rate of 4% the costs 
are euro; 2021/life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: One-time ultrasonographic screening for AAA in men aged 60-65 years 
appears to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1773
PMID: 12819652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2003 Jul;241(7):571-576. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-003-0691-z. Epub 2003 Jun 18.

Long-term results of penetrating keratoplasty. A 10-year-plus retrospective 
study.

Muraine M(1), Sanchez C(2), Watt L(2), Retout A(2), Brasseur G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Charles Nicolle, Boulevard Gambetta, 
76031 , Rouen cedex, France. marc.muraine@chu-rouen.fr.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital Charles Nicolle, Boulevard Gambetta, 
76031 , Rouen cedex, France.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to retrospectively analyse the outcome of 
a series of grafted patients over a period of more than 10 years and to 
determine their long-term survival probability.
METHODS: The records of 89 patients who had 103 grafts performed in 97 eyes were 
analysed. Mean follow-up was 12.8 years (range 10-17 years). Life table analysis 
(Kaplan-Meier) was used to evaluate the graft survival of the total population 
and of different groups.
RESULTS: Eighteen out of 89 patients (20.2%) had died. At the last visit before 
their death, 10 of the 21 grafts in those patients were still clear. Graft 
survival rates after 1, 2, 5 and 10 years were 79%, 73%, 59% and 50%; the rate 
at the end of follow-up was 47%. Survival rate at the end of the study was 94.7% 
for keratoconus, 57.1% herpes keratitis, 33.3% for pseudophakic keratopathies, 
28.5% for post-traumatic keratopathies and 11.1% for re-grafts. In the group of 
patients grafted for aphakic or pseudophakic keratopathy, 40% died during the 
study. In 45% of cases their grafts were clear at the time of death. Endothelial 
decompensation and definitive graft rejection were the main causes of failure.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcome of keratoplasty is progressively getting worse with 
time in pseudophakic or traumatic keratopathies whereas survival rates are still 
stable from 10 to 17 years in grafts performed after keratoconus or herpetic 
keratitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-003-0691-z
PMID: 12819978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Anticancer Res. 2003 Mar-Apr;23(2B):1333-41.

Prognostic significance of death-associated protein-kinase expression in 
hepatocellular carcinomas.

Matsumoto H(1), Nagao M, Ogawa S, Kanehiro H, Hisanaga M, Ko S, Ikeda N, Fujii 
H, Koyama F, Mukogawa T, Nakajima Y.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nara Medical University, 840 Shijo-cho, 
Kashihara city, Nara 634-8522, Japan. hmatsu@nmu-gw.naramed-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Disorder of programmed cell death (PCD) contributes to the 
pathogenesis and the progression of various cancers. Death-associated 
protein-kinase(DAP-kinase) was isolated as a positive mediator of apoptosis 
induced by IFN-gamma. It has been reported that the loss or reduction of 
DAP-kinase expression was detected in various human tumor cell lines and 
resulted from methylation of the DAP-kinase gene.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the expression of DAP-kinase protein by 
immunohistochemistry and Western-blotting in 43 patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). Additionally, we examined the methylation status of the 
DAP-kinase promoter region by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: In DAP-kinase-positive HCC cases(n = 16), serum AFP levels were lower 
(p = 0.009), tumor differentiation was higher (p = 0.048), histological portal 
invasion and metastatic foci were less (p = 0.004 and 0.016, respectively), 
apoptosis of tumor cells was more (p = 0.0009), and the disease-free survival 
rate and the overall survival rate were higher (p = 0.0057 and 0.0246, 
respectively), compared with DAP-kinase-negative cases. The status of DAP-kinase 
protein expression closely correlated with IFN-gamma-receptor and Fas expression 
(p = 0.038 and p < 0.0001, respectively), but not the methylation of promoter 
region.
CONCLUSION: Hepatoma cells may escape from apoptosis through the loss or 
reduction of DAP-kinase expression, while the block of IFN-gamma signal 
transduction as well as the methylation of promoter region may reduce the 
expression of DAP-kinase protein.

PMID: 12820391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Adv Gerontol. 2003;11:43-6.

[Analysis of nonlinear dynamics of aging (experimental study)].

[Article in Russian]

Solov'eva AS(1), Obukhova LK.

Author information:
(1)N.M. Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics of the Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 4, Kosygina Str., Moscow, 119991. soloviova@mtu-net.ru

The research is devoted to the analysis of individual dependencies of weight of 
a body, rectal temperature and functional motor asymmetry of behavior of mice 
female CBA from age received in longitudinal research. Both individual, and the 
average age dependencies of the above named parameters have an extreme 
(nonlinear) kind. It is revealed, that by the age of achievement of the maximal 
weight (Tm) and greatest asymmetry of behavior (Tn) are connected with each 
other (r = 0.6, p < 0.001). The difference (Tm-Tn) is linearly connected to life 
expectancy (r = 0.62, p < 0.001), that is this parameter can be used for the 
forecast of individual life expectancy.

PMID: 12820520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2003 Jun;82(6):441-6.

Quality of life and gait after unicondylar knee prosthesis are inferior to 
age-matched control subjects.

Fuchs S(1), Tibesku CO, Frisse D, Laass H, Rosenbaum D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of quality of life, gait pattern, and muscle activity 
after implantation of unicondylar sledge prostheses in comparison with control 
group.
DESIGN: A total of 17 patients were examined at an average follow-up of 21.5 mo 
after implantation of unicondylar sledge prostheses. In addition to clinical 
evaluation with different scores, our patients underwent three-dimensional gait 
analysis and surface electromyographic investigation of the lower limb and 
quality-of-life assessment using the Short Form-36 health questionnaire. The 
control group consisted of 11 healthy subjects.
RESULTS: Statistical analysis showed significantly lower results for the patient 
group in the Hospital for Special Surgery score, the Knee Society score, the 
patella score, and the Visual Analog Scale for pain. In quality of life, 
significant differences could be found for the following items: physical 
functioning, role limitation because of physical problems, and bodily pain. 
Electromyographic activities during gait were significantly lower in the patient 
group, except for the rectus femoris and the tibialis anterior. Regarding gait 
analysis, the variables for ground reaction forces and stride length differed 
significantly, whereas maximum knee extension and flexion did not.
CONCLUSIONS: Unicondylar knee replacement has failed to restore functional 
capabilities, quality of life, gait pattern, and muscle activity compared with 
healthy subjects of the same age. The assumption that unicondylar sledge 
prostheses preserve normal joint function must be questioned.

PMID: 12820786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Biochem J. 2003 Oct 15;375(Pt 2):365-71. doi: 10.1042/BJ20030022.

Forkhead transcription factor FOXO1 (FKHR)-dependent induction of PDK4 gene 
expression in skeletal muscle during energy deprivation.

Furuyama T(1), Kitayama K, Yamashita H, Mori N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, National Institute for Longevity Sciences, 
36-3 Gengo, Morioka, Obu, Aichi, 474-8522, Japan. tfuruyam@nils.go.jp

A forkhead-type transcription factor, DAF-16, is located in the most downstream 
part of the insulin signalling pathway via PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase). It 
is essential for the extension of life-span and is also involved in dauer 
formation induced by food deprivation in Caenorhabditis elegans. In the present 
study, we addressed whether or not FOXO members AFX, FKHR (forkhead homologue in 
rhabdomyosarcoma) and FKHRL1 (FKHR-like protein 1), mammalian counterparts of 
DAF-16, are involved in starvation stress. We found a remarkable selective 
induction of FKHR and FKHRL1 transcripts in skeletal muscle of mice during 
starvation. The induction of FKHR gene expression was observed at 6 h after food 
deprivation, peaked at 12 h, and returned to the basal level by 24 h of 
refeeding. The induction was also found in skeletal muscle of mice with 
glucocorticoid treatment. Moreover, we found that the levels of PDK4 (pyruvate 
dehydrogenase kinase 4) gene expression were up-regulated through the direct 
binding of FKHR to the promoter region of the gene in C2C12 cells. These results 
suggest that FKHR has an important role in the regulation of energy metabolism, 
at least in part, through the up-regulation of PDK4 gene expression in skeletal 
muscle during starvation.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20030022
PMCID: PMC1223677
PMID: 12820900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2003 Apr;24(4):284-7.

[Analysis on potential years of life lost of automobile drivers in Jiangsu in 
1990 - 1999].

[Article in Chinese]

Xun PC(1), Cai H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, Nantong Medical College, Nantong 226001, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the health status of automobile drivers and to define 
their potential years of life lost (PYLL) resulting from main death causes in 
Jiangsu in 1990 - 1999.
METHODS: The Reed-Merrell method and Makham-Gompertz equation were used to 
compile the abridged truncate life tables. PYLL and rate of PYLL was used to 
analyse death causes in 1990 - 1999.
RESULTS: (1) The life expectancy of drivers at age 20 was 55.36, which was 0.70 
year less than that of non-drivers. (2) Rate of PYLL was 35.07 per thousand in 
drivers, and 42.65 per thousand in non-drivers, and the corresponding standard 
rates of PYLL were 42.45 per thousand and 41.14 per thousand, respectively. (3) 
Damage and toxicosis ranked number 4 in terms of proportionate mortality ratio, 
but ranked first with the rate of PYLL.
CONCLUSION: Special attention should be paid to the health status of automobile 
drivers, especially to those who are middle aged. Diseases that made the 
greatest contributions to drivers' "earlier death" were damage and toxicosis.

PMID: 12820946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Aug;57(4):595-611. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00408-2.

Why are suicide rates rising in young men but falling in the elderly?-- a 
time-series analysis of trends in England and Wales 1950-1998.

Gunnell D(1), Middleton N, Whitley E, Dorling D, Frankel S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 
Whiteladies Road, Bristol BS8 2PR, UK. d.j.grunnell@bristol.ac.uk

Suicide rates doubled in males aged <45 in England and Wales between 1950 and 
1998, in contrast rates declined in older males and females of all ages. 
Explanations for these divergent trends are largely speculative, but social 
changes are likely to have played an important role. We undertook a time-series 
analysis using routinely available age- and sex-specific suicide, social, 
economic and health data, focussing on the two age groups in which trends have 
diverged most-25-34 and 60+ year olds. Between 1950 and 1998 there were 
unfavourable trends in many of the risk factors for suicide: rises in divorce, 
unemployment and substance misuse and declines in births and marriage. Whilst 
economic prosperity has increased, so too has income inequality. Trends in 
suicide risk factors were generally similar in both age-sex groups, although the 
rises in divorce and markers of substance misuse were most marked in 25-34 year 
olds and young males experienced the lowest rise in antidepressant prescribing. 
Statistical modelling indicates that no single factor can be identified as 
underlying recent trends. The factors most consistently associated with the 
rises in young male suicide are increases in divorce, declines in marriage and 
increases in income inequality. These changes have had little effect on suicide 
in young females. This may be because the drugs commonly used in overdose-their 
favoured method of suicide-have become less toxic or because they are less 
affected by the factors underlying the rise in male suicide. In older people 
declines in suicide were associated with increases in gross domestic product, 
the size of the female workforce, marriage and the prescribing of 
antidepressants. Recent population trends in suicide appear to be associated 
with by a range of social and health related factors. It is possible that some 
of the patterns observed are due to declining levels of social integration, but 
such effects do not appear to have adversely influenced patterns in older 
generations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00408-2
PMID: 12821009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Aug;57(4):687-96. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00418-5.

Measuring people's preferences regarding ageism in health: some methodological 
issues and some fresh evidence.

Tsuchiya A(1), Dolan P, Shaw R.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of Sheffield, UK. 
a.tsuychiya@shef.ac.uk

In this paper, we outline the three main concepts of 'ageism'; health 
maximisation ageism, productivity ageism, and fair innings ageism. We provide a 
methodological overview of the existing empirical literature on people's 
preferences regarding age and classify these studies according to the types of 
questions that have been asked. We consider some of the methodological issues 
involved in eliciting preferences regarding ageism and propose using a fixed 
duration of benefit rather than, as some studies have done, a benefit that lasts 
for a full lifetime. Informed by this discussion, we present the results from 
our own empirical study, carried out in the UK, which combines qualitative and 
quantitative methods to explore the reasons people have for choosing one age 
over another. In so doing, we are able to consider the extent to which 
respondents might bring extraneous factors to bear on their responses and/or 
disregard relevant information (such as that relating to the fixed nature of the 
benefit). The results suggest that people are broadly in favour of giving 
priority to younger over older people, based on arguments relating to both 
productivity ageism and fair innings ageism. However, respondents appear to 
assume that a benefit would last for a full lifetime (even if they are told to 
assume a fixed benefit), unless they are asked to consider a 'full-life' benefit 
first. This particular framing effect has important implications for preference 
elicitation studies, suggesting that if you want people to answer the question 
you have in mind, first ask them the question you think they may have in mind.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00418-5
PMID: 12821016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Public Health Rep. 2003 May-Jun;118(3):275-6.

Annual mortality report: life expectancy increase.

[No authors listed]

PMCID: PMC1497540
PMID: 12822188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Soc Secur Bull. 2001-2002;64(4):16-32.

Social security reform in Central and Eastern Europe: variations on a Latin 
American theme.

Kritzer BE.

After Chile reformed its social security system in 1981, several other Latin 
American countries and certain Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries 
implemented the Chilean model, with some variations: either a single- or 
multitier system, or with a period of transition to take care of those in the 
labor force at the time of the change. The single-tier version consists of 
individual accounts in pension fund management companies. Multi-tier systems 
retain some form of public program and add mandatory individual accounts. Most 
of the CEE countries did not want to incur the high transition costs associated 
with the Chilean model. The switch to a market economy had already strained 
their economies. Also, the countries' desire to adopt the European Union's Euro 
as their currency--a move that required a specific debt ceiling--limited the 
amount of additional debt they could incur. This article describes the CEE 
reforms and makes some comparisons with the Latin American experience. Most of 
the CEE countries have chosen a mixed system and have restructured the 
pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) tier, while the Latin American countries have both single- 
and multi-tier systems. Some CEE countries have set up notional defined 
contribution (NDC) schemes for the PAYGO tier in which each insured person has a 
hypothetical account made up of all contributions during his or her working 
life. Survivors and disability programs in CEE have remained in the public tier, 
but in most of the Latin American programs the insured must purchase a separate 
insurance policy. Issues common to both regions include: Administrative costs 
are high and competition is keen, which has led to consolidation and mergers 
among the companies and a large market share controlled by a few companies. 
Benefits are proportionately lower for women than for men. A large, informal 
sector is not covered by social security. This sector is apparently much larger 
in Latin America than in the CEE countries. Issues that are unique to some of 
the CEE countries include: Individual accounts in Hungary and Poland have proved 
more attractive than originally anticipated. As a result, contributions to the 
public PAYGO system in Hungary and Poland fell short of expectations. In several 
countries, laws setting up the programs were enacted without all the details of 
providing benefits. For example, in some countries laws must now be drawn up for 
establishment of annuities because they do not yet exist. Setting up a coherent 
pension policy has been difficult in some countries because of frequent and 
significant changes in government. This situation has affected the progress of 
reform in various stages of development. In general, a definitive assessment of 
individual accounts in these countries will not be possible until a cohort of 
retirees has spent most of its career under the new system.

PMID: 12822190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Jun;75(6):1815-9. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00016-x.

Replacement of the aortic valve in patients under 50 years of age: long-term 
follow-up of the St. Jude Medical prosthesis.

Emery RW(1), Erickson CA, Arom KV, Northrup WF 3rd, Kersten TE, Von Rueden TJ, 
Lillehei TJ, Nicoloff DM.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgical Associates, PA, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota, USA. 
dremery@csa-heart.com

BACKGROUND: Aortic valve replacement in the young adult (aged 18 to 50 years) is 
a choice between a mechanical prosthesis with attendant lifelong anticoagulation 
or biological prostheses of varying types that may have limited life expectancy 
in this age group.
METHODS: The Cardiac Surgical Research Foundation database was accessed to 
determine long-term outcomes in patients having aortic valve replacement with 
the St. Jude Medical Valve. This database has been privately maintained since 
the world's first St. Jude Medical (SJM) valve implant in 1977. Patients were 
contacted by questionnaire or by telephone if the survey was not returned. 
Follow-up was 93% complete.
RESULTS: From October 1977 through October 1997, 271 patients less than 50 years 
of age had isolated aortic valve replacement. Follow-up was 1957 patient years. 
Thirty-day operative mortality was 1.1% with 18 late deaths, 4 of which were 
valve related. Ninety percent of survivor INR responses indicated a frequency of 
monthly INR checks or less. Valve-related events including percent per patient 
year and mortality related to these events included thromboembolism, 6 episodes 
(0.3% per patient year, no deaths); anticoagulant-related bleeding, 6 events 
(0.3% per patient year, 2 deaths); paravalvular leak, 6 events (0.3% per patient 
year, 2 deaths); valve thrombosis, 2 events (0.1% per patient year, no deaths); 
and endocarditis, 3 events (0.15% per patient year, no deaths). There was no 
incidence of structural valve failure.
CONCLUSIONS: The SJM valve has a long record of excellent performance with 
durability lasting more than 20 years. The incidence of untoward events is low 
and death over time due to valve-related complications is low (4 of 271). The 
SJM valve has become our valve of choice for younger patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00016-x
PMID: 12822621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Jun;75(6):1836-41. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00030-4.

The descending branch of lateral femoral circumflex artery in arterial CABG: 
early and midterm results.

Fabbrocini M(1), Fattouch K, Camporini G, DeMicheli G, Bertucci C, Cioffi P, 
Mercogliano D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Nuova Casa di Cura Città di 
Alessandria, Alessandria, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Different arterial conduits have been used for coronary artery 
