bypass grafting (CABG), avoiding remote cardiac events associated with graft 
failure and improving the quality and expectancy of life in patients with 
coronary artery disease. The goal of this study was to evaluate the early and 
midterm results of total arterial CABG with the descending branch of the lateral 
femoral circumflex artery (DLFCA).
METHODS: Between February 1997 and December 2001, 147 patients underwent 
arterial CABG using the DLFCA at our department. The patients were followed to 
determine perioperative cardiac events. Angiographic follow-up controls were 
performed at the end of surgery in 81 patients (55.1%), within 1 year in 82 
patients (55.7%), and within 3 years in 48 patients (32.6%). The actuarial 
survival and event-free rates, the occurrence of late cardiac events and death, 
the cumulative rate of the DLFCA graft patency, and the incidence of spasm were 
investigated.
RESULTS: The DLFCA was used in all patients (113 men and 34 women, with a mean 
age of 56 +/- 12.6 years). The proximal anastomoses of the DLFCA was performed 
with the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) in 95% and with the right internal 
mammary artery (RIMA) in 5% of patients. The distal anastomoses of the DLFCA was 
performed with the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery in 3.5%, with 
the diagonal artery in 17%, with the intermedius ramus in 7.5%, with the 
posterior interventricular artery in 2%, and with the branch of circumflex 
artery in 70% of patients. The in-hospital mortality and morbidity rates were 0% 
and 7.4%, respectively. Complications related to DLFCA harvesting was transient 
dysesthesia of the thigh, observed in 6 patients (4%). No postoperative 
myocardial infarction attributable to DLFCA bypass was observed. During the late 
follow-up period of 22.09 +/- 16.8 months, cardiac events were observed in 14 
patients (9.5%), including recurrence of angina in 6, arrhythmia requiring 
hospitalization in 4, congestive heart failure in 2, percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty in 1, and sudden death in 1 patient. Actuarial 1- and 3-year 
survival rates after surgery were 100% and 99.3%, respectively. Actuarial 1- and 
3-year event-free rates were 97.3% and 90.5%, respectively. Actuarial 1- and 
3-year patency rates were 97.5% and 93.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: No adverse effects were exhibited after CABG using the DLFCA graft 
in this early and midterm follow-up period. The excellent patency rate of DLFCA 
and the low incidence of spasm stimulate us to continue and extend the use of 
the DLFCA in CABG.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00030-4
PMID: 12822625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Gen Intern Med. 2003 Jun;18(6):432-41. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20611.x.

Cost-effectiveness of a primary care depression intervention.

Pyne JM(1), Rost KM, Zhang M, Williams DK, Smith J, Fortney J.

Author information:
(1)HSRD Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas 
Veterans Healthcare System, Little Rock, Arkansas 72114-1706, USA. 
pynejeffreym@uams.edu

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2003 Jun;18(6):492-3.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of a quality 
improvement depression intervention (enhanced care) in primary care settings 
relative to usual care.
DESIGN: Following stratification, we randomized 12 primary care practices to 
enhanced or usual care conditions and followed patients for 12 months.
SETTING: Primary care practices located in 10 states across the United States.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred eleven patients beginning a new treatment 
episode for major depression.
INTERVENTIONS: Training the primary care team to assess, educate, and monitor 
depressed patients during the acute and continuation stages of their depression 
treatment episode over 1 year.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness was measured by calculating 
incremental (enhanced minus usual care) costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) derived from SF-36 data. The mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
in the main analysis was US dollars 15463 per QALY. The mean incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for the sensitivity analyses ranged from US dollars 
11341 (using geographic block variables to control for pre-intervention service 
utilization) to US dollars 19976 (increasing the cost estimates by 50%) per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This quality improvement depression intervention was cost-effective 
relative to usual care compared to cost-effectiveness ratios for common primary 
care interventions and commonly cited cost-effectiveness ratio thresholds for 
intervention implementation.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20611.x
PMCID: PMC1494878
PMID: 12823650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Jul;51(7 Suppl):S346-50. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.51346.x.

Quality of care for older persons at the dawn of the third millennium.

Reuben DB(1), Shekelle PG, Wenger NS.

Author information:
(1)Multicampus Program in Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095,USA. 
dreuben@mednet.ucla.edu

During the past quarter century, researchers, providers, insurers, and 
governmental agencies have devoted considerable effort to improving and 
standardizing the quality of health care provided to older persons. Because 
older persons differ from younger persons as a result of their life expectancy, 
disease prevalence and comorbidity, social resources, goals of treatment, and 
preferences for care, defining and measuring quality of care has been more 
difficult for this age group. Nevertheless, several decades of research have led 
to reliable, although imperfect, methods of measuring quality, including those 
for geriatric conditions. Using these measurement approaches, a variety of 
studies using different patient populations and sampling strategies have 
consistently identified deficiencies in quality of care provided to older 
persons. Moreover, efforts to improve quality of care for older persons have 
been difficult to design, implement, and sustain. Some have been successful, 
including having effects on outcome measures, but have not made the transition 
from research to clinical settings. Others have used quality improvement methods 
to improve the care of diseases (e.g., diabetes mellitus, congestive heart 
failure) that commonly affect older persons. However, the lack of alignment of 
incentives between providers and insurers for most older persons is a major 
barrier to this approach. In addition, there is no concerted effort among 
providers, regulatory agencies, and insurers to move the quality-of-care agenda 
for most Medicare recipients. Despite substantial progress in defining and 
measuring high-quality care for older persons, the goal of ensuring that older 
persons receiving such care remains a distant hope.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.51346.x
PMID: 12823666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. ORL J Otorhinolaryngol Relat Spec. 2003 Mar-Apr;65(2):117-20. doi: 
10.1159/000070776.

Microbiology and management of deep facial infections and Lemierre syndrome.

Brook I(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, D.C., USA. 
ib6@georgetown.edu

This review describes the microbiology, diagnosis and management of deep facial 
infections and Lemierre syndrome. The origins of most of these infections are 
odontogenic infections that spread to fascial spaces of the lower head and upper 
neck. Other sources include pharyngotonsillar, nasal, otologic, salivary gland 
and dermatologic infections, hematogenic spread, cervical adenitis and trauma. 
These space infections can be divided into those around the face (masticatory, 
buccal, canine and parotid), the suprahyoid area (submandibular, sublingual and 
lateral pharyngeal) and the infrahyoid region or lateral neck (retropharyngeal 
and pretracheal spaces). The organisms accounting for these infections are 
aerobic and anaerobic that arise from the oropharyngeal flora. Complications of 
these infections can be life threatening and can result from hematogenic or 
direct spread. Complications that arise following local extension include 
suppurative jugular thrombophlebitis, cavernous sinus thrombosis, carotid 
erosion, maxillary sinusitis and osteomyelitis of the jaws. Management includes 
surgical drainage and antimicrobial therapy.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000070776
PMID: 12824734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Retina. 2003 Jun;23(3):279-87; ; quiz 443-4. doi: 
10.1097/00006982-200306000-00001.

CME review: A cost-utility analysis of laser photocoagulation for extrafoveal 
choroidal neovascularization.

Busbee BG(1), Brown MM, Brown GC, Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, and Department of Ophthalmology, Tufts New 
England Medical Center, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to perform a reference case (average 
case), cost-utility analysis of laser photocoagulation for extrafoveal choroidal 
neovascularization associated with age-related macular degeneration using a 
model incorporating patient preferences.
METHODS: Visual acuity data for patients treated and observed over a 5-year 
period were obtained from previously reported studies by the Macular 
Photocoagulation Study Group. The results from this prospective, randomized 
trial were incorporated in a cost-utility model using time-trade-off utility 
analysis and decision analysis with Markov modeling according to the 
recommendations of the Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine. 
Expenditures and health care benefits were each discounted at a 3% yearly rate.
RESULTS: Laser photocoagulation therapy for extrafoveal choroidal 
neovascularization in age-related macular degeneration, compared with 
observation, resulted in a mean gain of 0.0740 quality-adjusted life-year per 
patient treated. The mean cost of treatment for the average patient totaled 
1,715 US dollars. The cost divided by the health care benefit resulted in 23,176 
year 2001 US dollars per quality-adjusted life-year gained for this procedure 
for a reference case. Sensitivity analyses, varying the cost, utility values, 
and discount parameters, resulted in dollars per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained ranging from 16,117 to 49,766 US dollars.
CONCLUSION: Laser photocoagulation for extrafoveal choroidal neovascularization 
associated with age-related macular degeneration appears to be cost-effective 
when compared with interventions across multiple medical specialties.

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-200306000-00001
PMID: 12824826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Health Econ. 2003 Jul;12(7):553-64. doi: 10.1002/hec.749.

Health-seeking behaviour and rural/urban variation in Kazakhstan.

Thompson R(1), Miller N, Witter S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

This paper seeks to analyse the findings of an extensive household survey, 
uncovering interesting evidence of variation in health-seeking behaviour across 
rural and urban areas due, it is suggested, to differences in real costs, 
quality of care, and perceptions of the value of health and health care. It is 
shown that, ceteris paribus, urban households in Kazakhstan are more likely to 
consult, to be admitted to hospital, to report illness, and will spend 
relatively more on health care. The data suggest the need for further 
qualitative study into the factors underlying these patterns leading to 
strategies to increase the quality, acceptability and affordability of rural 
health services. This is important given the decline in health indicators such 
as life expectancy in Kazakhstan and the increased burden on households of 
funding health care in a time of economic insecurity and deterioration of public 
services.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.749
PMID: 12825208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Health Econ. 2003 Jul;12(7):601-8. doi: 10.1002/hec.733.

Allocating health care resources when people are risk averse with respect to 
life time.

Hoel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Oslo, Norway. michael.hoel@econ.uio.no

The criterion of cost-effectiveness in health management may be given a 
welfare-theoretical justification if people are risk neutral with respect to 
life years. With risk aversion, the optimal allocation of health expenditures 
changes: Compared to the cost-effective allocation, more resources should be 
allocated to health conditions for which the expected outcomes even after 
treatment are worse than average. The consequences of medical interventions are 
usually not known with certainty. Given this type of uncertainty, simple 
application of cost-effectiveness analysis would recommend maximization of 
expected health benefits given the health budget. We show that when people are 
risk averse with respect to the number of life years they live, the uncertainty 
associated with different types of interventions should play a role in 
allocating the health budget.

Copyright 2002 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.733
PMID: 12825211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2003 Mar;54(3):177-82. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78402-7.

[Validation of the otoacoustic emissions in presbyacusis].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferré Rey J(1), Morelló-Castro G.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Rovira y Virgili, Facultad de Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud de 
Reus, Departamento de Medicina y Cirugía, Unidad ORL, C/Sant Llorenç 21, 43201 
Reus.

INTRODUCTION: With the development of medical technology, human life expectancy 
has increased. This has increased the incidence of senile pathologies and the 
associated problems for this people. In the field of otolaryngology, one of 
these pathologies is presbyacusis. This study attempts to find relationships 
between presbyacusis and different parameters related to it.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A cross sectional study was carried out with 59 volunteers 
aged between 50-89 from different homes for the elderly in the city of Reus. The 
subjects presented with or without symptoms of deafness. An AOE test was then 
performed to determine the different parameters. Significant response criteria 
were: otoemissions with a signal-noise ratio of 3 dB or greater or 65% 
reproducibility in < 2 bands. The results obtained were analyzed through a 
computer statistics program (SPSS) and Microsoft Excel for the graphics.
RESULTS: The results of the characteristics of the test are within the 
acceptable limits of quality. The prevalence of subjects with AOE was 22%, with 
an average age of the subjects of around 69 years. We did not find statistical 
differences in the presbyacusis group with respect to the parameters of 
intensity and reproductability, but there was a correlation in the duration of 
the test. In the analysis of frequencies in the reproductibility parameters we 
observed a fall in the 5 KHz. The ratio signal-noise showed a similar tendency. 
It is necessary to emphasize the worst results in the different parameters from 
the right ear the left one.
CONCLUSIONS: The AOE offers information in frequencies of 1 and 2 KHz, where we 
can see a reduction in the reproducibility in the presbyacusis group. We see a 
longer test time, in the presbyacusis group and this may be used to control the 
development of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-6519(03)78402-7
PMID: 12825340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2003 May-Jun;5(3):219-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-6175.2003.00683.x.

Blood pressure, arterial function, structure, and aging: the role of hormonal 
replacement therapy in postmenopausal women.

Scuteri A(1), Ferrucci L.

Author information:
(1)Unita Operativa di Geriatria, INRCA, Rome, Italy. angeloelefante@interfree.it

The occurrence of natural menopause may indicate that a woman is entering a 
period of increased risk for cardiovascular disease, due to both chronologic 
aging and lower levels of estrogen. This brief review aims to demonstrate the 
relevance of changes in blood pressure and large artery structure and function 
occurring after menopause. These changes, i.e., thickening and stiffening of 
large arteries (which, in turn would also result in increased systolic and pulse 
pressures), were found to predict subsequent cardiovascular events, 
independently of other known cardiovascular risk. The benefits of early hormone 
replacement therapy on the life expectancy of women have dramatically lost 
consensus since publication of the Womens Health Initiative study results. 
However, the authors believe that those results should increase the attention 
paid by clinicians and public health researchers to the individualization of 
hormone replacement therapy prescription for postmenopausal women, and to a 
better characterization of those vascular parameters and profiles identifying 
postmenopausal women who are most likely to benefit from specific hormone 
replacement therapy in terms of cardiovascular protection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-6175.2003.00683.x
PMCID: PMC8101833
PMID: 12826785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2003 Sep;90(1-2):109-13. doi: 10.1007/s00421-003-0860-0. 
Epub 2003 Jun 21.

Effects of daily activity recorded by pedometer on peak oxygen consumption 
(VO2peak), ventilatory threshold and leg extension power in 30- to 69-year-old 
Japanese without exercise habit.

Zhang JG(1), Ohta T, Ishikawa-Takata K, Tabata I, Miyashita M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Promotion and Exercise, National Institute of Health and 
Nutrition, 1-23-1 Toyama Shinjuku, Tokyo 162-8636, Japan.

The relationships among walk steps, exercise habits and peak oxygen consumption 
(VO2peak), ventilatory threshold (VT) and leg extension power (LEP) were 
examined in 709 apparently healthy Japanese subjects (male 372, female 337) aged 
30-69 years. Walk steps were evaluated using a pedometer. VO2peak and VT were 
assessed by a cycle ergometer test, while LEP was measured with an isokinetic 
leg extension system (Combi, Anaero Press 3500, Japan). Subjects who 
participated in exercise three times or more a week demonstrated significantly 
greater VO2peak and VT when compared with subjects without exercise habits. When 
a separate analysis was conducted on subjects who exercised fewer than three 
times per week, we found that the subgroup with the highest number of walk steps 
showed significantly greater VT in all male subjects and female subjects aged 
30-49 years, but a significantly greater VO2peak only in females aged 30-49 
years, when compared to the subgroup with the fewest walk steps. These results 
suggest that although some people exercise less than three times a week, if they 
are quite active in daily life, such activities might also confer benefits upon 
their fitness.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-003-0860-0
PMID: 12827366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Liver Transpl. 2003 Jul;9(7):672-81. doi: 10.1053/jlts.2003.50120.

Hepatocellular carcinoma screening in patients waiting for liver 
transplantation: a decision analytic model.

Saab S(1), Ly D, Nieto J, Kanwal F, Lu D, Raman S, Amado R, Nuesse B, Durazo F, 
Han S, Farmer DG, Ghobrial RM, Yersiz H, Chen P, Schwegel K, Goldstein LI, Tong 
M, Busuttil RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dumont-UCLA Liver Transplant Center, University of 
California Los Angeles, USA. Ssaab@mednet.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Liver Transpl. 2003 Jul;9(7):682-3.

De novo hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may have a large impact on patients 
waiting for liver transplantation. The presence of HCC can lead to a status 
upgrade or removal from the waitlist. Our aim is to compare costs and outcomes 
of different liver cancer surveillance strategies. A Markov-based decision 
analytic model is created to simulate costs and health outcomes for a 
hypothetical cohort awaiting liver transplantation undergoing HCC screening. 
Three strategies of HCC screening are compared with the referent strategy of 
using alphafetaprotein (AFP) level alone: (1) ultrasound (U/S), (2) AFP plus 
U/S, and (3) computed tomography (CT). Screening is performed for all strategies 
at 6-month intervals. Selected tumors are treated locally. Costs and clinical 
outcomes are discounted. Using baseline assumptions, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for U/S, U/S plus AFP, and CT are 
$60,300/life-year saved (LY), $74,000/LY, and $101,100/LY, respectively. The 
most cost-effective strategy was dependent on the relative costs of each 
screening modality. U/S screening becomes the dominant strategy when the cost of 
an AFP test is decreased. Our results show that screening with CT is associated 
the greatest gain in life expectancy and greatest costs. U/S screening strategy 
is the preferred screening strategy based on the lowest ICER. Ultimately, costs 
of the screening modalities determine the most cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1053/jlts.2003.50120
PMID: 12827551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. US News World Rep. 2003 Jun 23;134(22):32.

Age has its rewards.

Wiener L.

PMID: 12827733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Benefits Q. 2003;19(2):27-35.

Living to 100 and beyond--implications of longer life spans.

Rappaport AM(1), Parikh A.

Author information:
(1)Mercer Human Resource Consulting, Chicago, USA.

The challenge of longer life spans will center on the problem of allocating 
individual, family and social resources most effectively. To create a context 
for understanding the significance of measuring and forecasting mortality 
trends, this article addresses concerns about the implications of increasing 
longevity to very high ages for families, businesses and society as a whole.

PMID: 12827842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2003 Feb;14(2):241-5.

[Life-table of Helicoverpa armigera in northern China and characters of 
population development in southern and northern China].

[Article in Chinese]

Ge F(1), Liu X, Ding Y, Wang X, Zhao Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, China. 
gef@panda.ioz.ac.cn

The population dynamics of Helicoverpa armigera in Raoyang County, Hebei 
Province as an example in Northern China was researched, and its natural 
life-table was established. The results showed that total mortality of first to 
fourth generations of cotton bollworm in Northern China were 98.3%, 98.34%, 
98.69% and 99.13%, and the population tendency index (I) were 3.97, 1.50, 1.41 
and 1.09, respectively. A comparative analysis of the natural life-table of 
cotton bollworm in Southern China and in Northern China showed that the survival 
curves were concave curves in the two cotton zones. The curve showed that the 
mortality of cotton bollworm was higher in its egg stage to the second instar, 
and lower after the third instar. The key death factor of cotton bollworm was 
the scouring effect of rain and wind in Southern China, and the predation of its 
natural enemies in Northern China. The hatch period to the first instar was the 
key stage in Northern China and Southern China, and in this time, its larva 
instar was slim, fragile and sensitive to bad circumstances, so its mortality 
was higher. The second and third generations were the key damage generations in 
Northern China, while the third and fourth generations were the key damage 
generations in Southern China. The development and damage characters of each 
generation in Northern China and in Southern China were discussed.

PMID: 12827879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Arh Hig Rada Toksikol. 2002 Dec;53(4):289-96.

[Drivers of advanced age in traffic accidents].

[Article in Croatian]

Bilban M(1).

Author information:
(1)ZVD Zavod za varstvo pri delu d.d., Ljubljana, Slovenija. 
marjan.bilban@zvd.si

The elderly are vulnerable and potentially unpredictable active participants in 
traffic who deserve special attention. Longer life expectancy entails a greater 
number of senior drivers, that is, persons with various health problems and 
difficulties accompanying old age. At the turn of the millennium, the share of 
population aged 65 or more in Slovenia was around 13%, and in 25 years it will 
be near as much as 19%. The share of drivers from this age group was 28% a year 
ago, and it is expected to reach about 54%. Numerous studies have shown that 
there are many differences in driving attitude between the young and the 
elderly. The young are by large active victims, and their main offense and cause 
of accident is speeding, while the elderly are more passive and their main 
offense is ignoring and enforcing the right of way. This paper focuses on the 
differences in the occurrence and type of injuries between the young and the 
elderly drivers, based on an analysis of all road accidents in Slovenia in the 
period between 1998-2000. Older people (over 65) caused only 4.7% of all road 
accidents (16.7% of all accidents involving pedestrians, 11.5% of all involving 
cyclists, 2.7% involving motorcyclists and 5% of all accidents involving car 
drivers). Of all accidents, 89.3% were without injuries, and the fatal outcome 
was registered in 0.4% accidents. Among the elderly (65-74 years of age), 
however, this share was 1%, and rising to 2.7% with the age 75 and above. By 
calculating the weight index, which discriminates between minor and severe 
injuries, and the fatal outcome, it was established that age groups 65-74 and > 
or = 75 cause three and five times greater damage, respectively than age groups 
from 18 to 54 years. With years, psychophysical changes lead to a drop in 
driving ability, which in turn increases the risk of road accidents. It is true 
that elderly people cause less traffic accidents (and also drive less) than the 
young, but when they are involved in an accident, as a rule the consequences are 
more tragical. A research of this increasing group traffic participants (in the 
role of drivers as well) could provide an important contribution to their safety 
and to the safety of all people involved in road traffic.

PMID: 12828130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(10):709-19. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200321100-00003.

Cost effectiveness of adding folinic acid to fluorouracil plus levamisole as 
adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with colon cancer in Germany.

Monz BU(1), König HH, Leidl R, Staib L, Link KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. 
LBMonz@t-online.de

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of the addition of folinic acid to 
fluorouracil plus levamisole in patients with colon cancer from the perspective 
of the German Social Health Insurance.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients with International Union Against Cancer 
(Union International Contre Cancer; UICC) II/T(4) or UICC III colon cancer 
enrolled in an open-label randomised clinical trial in Germany (Forschungsgruppe 
Onkologie Gastrointestinaler Tumoren-1 [FOGT-1]) received either fluorouracil 
plus levamisole (A, standard) or fluorouracil plus levamisole and folinic acid 
(B) for 12 months as adjuvant chemotherapy after curative intended surgery. 
Outcome measures for economic evaluation were disease-free life-years gained 
(df-LYG) and overall life-years gained (LYG) derived from the respective 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Direct medical costs from the perspective of the 
German Social Health Insurance were estimated retrospectively (2000 values) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated. A Markov model 
was used to project the trial results beyond 5 years for the patients' remaining 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: Adding folinic acid to the fluorouracil/levamisole regimen results in 
an increase in time to progression and survival in patients with locally 
advanced colon cancer. Within the trial period of 5 years ICERs (B versus A) 
were 33,008 Euro per df-LYG and 51,225 Euro per LYG (costs and effects 
discounted at 5%). The Markov model yielded ICERs of 11,176 Euro per df-LYG and 
11,020 Euro per LYG (costs and effects discounted at 5%). The model was robust 
for variations of key variables in the sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this cost-effectiveness analysis suggest that the 
addition of folinic acid offers clinical benefits at additional costs which are 
likely to be acceptable for decision makers in the long term. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios calculated within the clinical trial period were just above 50,000 
Euro/LYG. Because treatment benefits, i.e. prolonged survival, are sustained 
beyond 5 years whereas incremental costs are mainly incurred in the first year, 
results of the Markov model yielded cost-effectiveness ratios that compare more 
favourably with other published ICERs.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321100-00003
PMID: 12828493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Haemophilia. 2003 Jul;9(4):382-6. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2003.00760.x.

Immune tolerance therapy dose as an outcome predictor.

DiMichele D(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell Center, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
dmdimich@med.cornell.edu

The question of dose as a successful ITT outcome predictor in haemophilia A and 
B is an important one on many levels. Increased morbidity associated with 
inhibitor development has been documented. Currently, immune tolerance is the 
only proven method for inhibitor eradication. Furthermore, given the morbidity 
and the high cost of less effective bypass therapy, a study by Harvard health 
economists using Markov decision analysis predicted an increased life expectancy 
of 4.5 years at a lifetime cost savings of $1.6 million with the use of ITT 
rather than lifelong APCC therapy. However, the immediate short-term cost of 
this expensive therapeutic intervention has the capacity to strain the financial 
resources of many countries in the developed world, regardless of the system of 
medical reimbursement. It also assures the inaccessibility of this treatment 
modality to most of the world's inhibitor patients living in the developing 
world. Cost aside, recent experience has taught us that clotting factor supply 
is precarious, not inexhaustible as previously assumed. Finally, in the 
paediatric patient who is most likely to require and undergo ITT, venous access 
for daily infusions is problematic with or without a central venous access 
device. Indeed, for these reasons alone, finding the answer to the question of 
optimal cost-effective dosing immune tolerance is a matter of medical urgency 
and moral obligation to the global haemophilia community.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2003.00760.x
PMID: 12828672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Haemophilia. 2003 Jul;9(4):521-40. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2003.00783.x.

Economic modelling of different treatment strategies for haemophilia A with 
high-responding inhibitors.

Knight C(1), Paisley S, Wight J, Jones ML.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. c.knight@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper reports a systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of treatment 
options in patients with haemophilia A with inhibitors. As very little relevant 
published evidence was identified, an economic modelling exercise was undertaken 
to calculate the cost-effectiveness of different strategies in the treatment of 
high-responding haemophilia A patients with inhibitors. A decision analysis 
approach was used to model the expected lifetime clinical outcomes and costs of 
the more common regimens currently used in UK in treating severe haemophiliacs 
with inhibitors. The model attempts to reflect the outcomes of clinical events, 
costs and life expectancy for each different treatment regimen for haemophilic 
boys with inhibitors who are high responders (defined as inhibitor level >/=10 
BU) throughout their life. The basic model structure is centred on a Markov 
decision process, which was used to simulate, at quarter-yearly intervals, the 
movement through discrete health states and their complications. The model 
allows a comparison of cost-effectiveness between three immune tolerance 
induction (ITI) regimens (Bonn, Mälmo and Low-Dose protocols) and against a 
relevant 'on-demand' (OD) regimen. It also shows the cost-effectiveness of 
different OD regimens using different bypassing agents. The results of the 
economic modelling indicate that treating haemophilia A patients who have 
high-responding inhibitors OD with recombinant activated factor VII is 
cost-effective compared to treatment with activated prothrombin complex 
concentrates. However, when OD treatment regimens are compared with the three 
ITI protocols, the Malmö ITI protocol is the preferred treatment strategy, 
generating more quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) and less cost than either an 
OD regimen or the Bonn or Low-Dose ITI protocols.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2003.00783.x
PMID: 12828681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Jul 8;100(14):8062-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1231331100. Epub 2003 Jun 26.

Long-term trends and a sustainability transition.

Kates RW(1), Parris TM.

Author information:
(1)rkates@acadia.net

How do long-term global trends affect a transition to sustainability? We 
emphasize the "multitrend" nature of 10 classes of trends, which makes them 
complex, contradictory, and often poorly understood. Each class includes trends 
that make a sustainability transition more feasible as well as trends that make 
it more difficult. Taken in their entirety, they serve as a checklist for the 
consideration of global trends that impact place-based sustainability studies.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1231331100
PMCID: PMC166182
PMID: 12829798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Jul 8;100(14):8418-23. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0932692100. Epub 2003 Jun 26.

Repeated observation of breast tumor subtypes in independent gene expression 
data sets.

Sorlie T(1), Tibshirani R, Parker J, Hastie T, Marron JS, Nobel A, Deng S, 
Johnsen H, Pesich R, Geisler S, Demeter J, Perou CM, Lønning PE, Brown PO, 
Børresen-Dale AL, Botstein D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.

Characteristic patterns of gene expression measured by DNA microarrays have been 
used to classify tumors into clinically relevant subgroups. In this study, we 
have refined the previously defined subtypes of breast tumors that could be 
distinguished by their distinct patterns of gene expression. A total of 115 
malignant breast tumors were analyzed by hierarchical clustering based on 
patterns of expression of 534 "intrinsic" genes and shown to subdivide into one 
basal-like, one ERBB2-overexpressing, two luminal-like, and one normal breast 
tissue-like subgroup. The genes used for classification were selected based on 
their similar expression levels between pairs of consecutive samples taken from 
the same tumor separated by 15 weeks of neoadjuvant treatment. Similar cluster 
analyses of two published, independent data sets representing different patient 
cohorts from different laboratories, uncovered some of the same breast cancer 
subtypes. In the one data set that included information on time to development 
of distant metastasis, subtypes were associated with significant differences in 
this clinical feature. By including a group of tumors from BRCA1 carriers in the 
analysis, we found that this genotype predisposes to the basal tumor subtype. 
Our results strongly support the idea that many of these breast tumor subtypes 
represent biologically distinct disease entities.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0932692100
PMCID: PMC166244
PMID: 12829800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Stroke. 2003 Jul;34(7):1593-7. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000077924.71088.02. Epub 
2003 Jun 26.

Acute stroke in the very elderly: epidemiological features, stroke subtypes, 
management, and outcome in Martinique, French West Indies.

Olindo S(1), Cabre P, Deschamps R, Chatot-Henry C, René-Corail P, Fournerie P, 
Saint-Vil M, May F, Smadja D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Pierre-Zobda-Quitman Hospital, BP 632, 
Fort-de-France 97261, Martinique, French West Indies. olindo.stephane@wanadoo.fr

Comment in
    Stroke. 2005 Apr;36(4):705-6; author reply 705-6.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke incidence increases with increasing age and has 
an impact on daily living in many areas. With increasing life expectancy, old 
people will constitute the majority of stroke victims. We present the first 
stroke study focusing on very old patients in a black Caribbean population 
(Martinique, French West Indies).
METHODS: All Martinican patients suffering from their first-ever stroke during 1 
calendar year between June 1, 1998, and May 31, 1999, were included. 
Epidemiological, clinical, neuroimaging, management, and outcome data during the 
first month were collected and compared between very old patients (>or=85 years) 
and patients aged <85 years.
RESULTS: One hundred patients aged >or=85 years and 480 patients aged <85 years 
were included (sex ratio, women/men, 2.84 and 0.85, respectively; mean+/-SD age, 
88.8+/-3.6 and 65.8+/-13.3 years, respectively). The incidence of first-ever 
stroke was 1.64/1000 per year in the Martinique population and 18.2/1000 per 
year in patients aged >or=85 years. Elderly patients showed a significantly 
lower proportion of diabetes (19.1% versus 32.2%; P=0.012) and smoking (0% 
versus 8.4%; P=0.004) and a higher proportion of peripheral artery disease 
(23.4% versus 11.4%; P=0.002). Prevalence of hypertension was identical in the 2 
groups (70%). There were no significant differences in stroke types or ischemic 
stroke subtypes between the 2 groups. Active medical care was poorer in older 
than in younger patients (hospitalization rate, 89% versus 94.4%; admission to 
neurological ward, 8% versus 23.8%; rate of performance of a CT scan, 82% versus 
94%). The 30-day case fatality rate was approximately twice as high in elderly 
patients (31% versus 16.7%; P=0.0009), and disability (Rankin Scale score >or=3) 
in survivors was markedly higher (78% versus 48%; P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In Martinique, the incidence of first-ever stroke in very old black 
Caribbean patients seems similar to that in white patients. They have the same 
pathological type and subtype of stroke as do young patients. The poorer stroke 
outcome found in the elderly during the first month may be related in large part 
to less active management than in younger patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000077924.71088.02
PMID: 12829873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nurs Outlook. 2003 May-Jun;51(3):115-9. doi: 10.1016/s0029-6554(03)00081-2.

A comparative study of the health care delivery system of Korea and Thailand.

Lee CY(1), Phanchareanworakul K, Cho WJ, Suwonnaroop N, Storey MJ, Sanaeha C, 
Priyatruk P, Kim E, Sittipongsakul S, Kim GS, Limpanatorn S, Seo KM.

Author information:
(1)Yonsei University, College of Nursing, Seoul, South Korea.

Comment in
    Nurs Outlook. 2003 Jul-Aug;51(4):178-81.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-6554(03)00081-2
PMID: 12830103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Jul;42(1):125-32. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00415-3.

Adapting the Charlson Comorbidity Index for use in patients with ESRD.

Hemmelgarn BR(1), Manns BJ, Quan H, Ghali WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
bhemmelg@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: Accurate prediction of survival for patients with end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) and multiple comorbid conditions is difficult. In nondialysis 
patients, the Charlson Comorbidity Index has been used to adjust for 
comorbidity. The purpose of this study is to assess the validity of the Charlson 
index in incident dialysis patients and modify the index for use specifically in 
this patient population.
METHODS: Subjects included all incident hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis 
patients starting dialysis therapy between July 1, 1999, and November 30, 2000. 
These 237 patients formed a cohort from which new integer weights for Charlson 
comorbidities were derived using Cox proportional hazards modeling. Performance 
of the original Charlson index and the new ESRD comorbidity index were compared 
using Kaplan-Meier survival curves, change in likelihood ratio, and the c 
statistic.
RESULTS: After multivariate analysis and conversion of hazard ratios to index 
weights, only 6 of the original 18 Charlson variables were assigned the same 
weight and 6 variables were assigned a weight higher than in the original 
Charlson index. Using Kaplan-Meier survival curves, we found that both the 
original Charlson index and the new ESRD comorbidity index were associated with 
and able to describe a wide range of survival. However, the new study-specific 
index had better validated performance, indicated by a greater change in the 
likelihood ratio test and higher c statistic.
CONCLUSION: This study indicates that the original Charlson index is a valid 
tool to assess comorbidity and predict survival in patients with ESRD. However, 
our modified ESRD comorbidity index had slightly better performance 
characteristics in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00415-3
PMID: 12830464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Jul;42(1):151-7. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00418-9.

Vascular access outcomes using the transposed basilic vein arteriovenous 
fistula.

Segal JH(1), Kayler LK, Henke P, Merion RM, Leavey S, Campbell DA Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Health System, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0364, USA. jhsegal@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Although the transposed basilic vein arteriovenous fistula (TBAVF) 
is increasingly performed for hemodialysis vascular access in patients lacking 
adequate superficial veins, little is known about the long-term patency or risk 
factors for failure.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted for 99 patients who had a TBAVF 
created between April 1997 and October 2001. Primary outcomes were unassisted 
and assisted patency rates and primary failure rates.
RESULTS: This was the first access procedure in 46% of patients, mean age was 55 
years, and 46% were men. Unassisted and assisted patency rates were 47% and 64% 
at 1 year and 41% and 58% at 2 years, respectively. Primary access failure 
occurred in 23% of cases. Unassisted access patency was significantly worse in 
patients with a previous access (relative risk [RR], 2.04; confidence interval 
[CI], 1.09 to 3.85; P = 0.03) or an ipsilateral central venous catheter (RR, 
2.92; CI, 1.34 to 6.38; P < 0.01). Primary access failure was affected by older 
age (RR, 2.0; CI, 1.20 to 3.38; P < 0.01), obesity (RR, 7.1; CI, 1.65 to 30.1; P 
< 0.05), and a previous vascular access (RR, 6.4; CI, 1.49 to 27.6; P = 0.01). 
Steal syndrome requiring intervention occurred in 5% of cases.
CONCLUSION: In summary, the TBAVF provides a viable option for vascular access; 
however, certain patient characteristics seem to affect long-term patency and 
should be considered when exploring access options.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00418-9
PMID: 12830467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Actas Urol Esp. 2003 Apr;27(4):292-6. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(03)72923-4.

[Review of cut-off points between stages T1 and T2 in the 1997 TNM 
classification of renal carcinoma].

[Article in Spanish]

López Luque AJ(1), Anglada Curado FJ, Carazo Carazo JL, Alvarez Kindelan J, 
Márquez López J, Leva Vallejo M, Regueiro López JC, Prieto Castro R, Requena 
Tapia MJ.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Regional Universitario Reina Sofia, Córdoba.

OBJECTIVE: We retrospectively review the patients treated at our institution for 
renal cell carcinoma (RCC). We compare the patients classified in TNM state 
T1N0M0 in the 1997 revision with the 1992 one in order to determine survival 
differences. We divide patients in three size related groups and compare its 
survival rates.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We review 168 surgically treated patients. 72 of them were 
classified into T1N0M0 stage. We compare cancer-free survival in patients 
included in 1997 and 1992 T1 stage. We divide patients in three groups: 1-3 cm, 
3-5 cm, 5-7 cm and compare respective cancer-free survival.
RESULTS: There is a survival difference between T1(1997)-T2(1992) (p = 0.478). 
There is an inferior survival in size group 5-7 cm compared with 1-3 cm and 3-5 
cm ones (p = 0.02/0.0465).
CONCLUSIONS: In our patients, 1997 revision of T1 size supposes a descent of 
cancer-free survival compared with 1992 one. We consider a better stage limit 
under 5 cm, instead of actual 7 cm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(03)72923-4
PMID: 12830551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Jpn Hosp. 2002 Jul;(21):23-7.

New trends in the Japanese medical system in 2002.

Motomatsu K(1), Hirata N, Imamura T.

Author information:
(1)St. Mary's Junior College 422, Tsubukuhon Machi, Kurume-City, 
Hukuoka-Prefecture, 830-8558, Japan.

The Japanese have enjoyed the longest average life span in the world for these 
ten years. The universal health insurance system with free access and low cost 
seems to play the most important role among the proposed causes. We didn't need 
to worry about the charges at hospitals when we consulted a doctor, although we 
had to pay a premium in proportion to our income, and we received a national 
benefit which was money-paid by tax-payers. Unfortunately, the economic 
depression started around 1990 has driven us to a difficult situation. We are 
now planning several new policies to prevent the bankruptcy of the universal 
health insurance system due to the reduction of the medical expenditure. New 
attempts, such as reduction in the number of hospital beds, shortening of the 
average hospital stay, introduction of a long-term care insurance system, and 
the reduction of fee schedule by 2.7% from April 2002, and so on are being 
considered. On the other hand, the percentage of medical expenditure to GDP in 
Japan is the lowest, along with England, among the developed countries. Having 
realized that the poor medical system was due to low medical expenditure, the 
British government decided to raise the budget of the national health service. 
The situation concerning medical expenditure in Japan might become the worst 
among developed countries in the near future.

PMID: 12830743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Drugs Aging. 2003;20(9):655-61. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200320090-00003.

Vitreous haemorrhage in elderly patients: management and prevention.

Manuchehri K(1), Kirkby G.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, City Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

Vitreous haemorrhage can be caused by a disruption of normal retinal vessels, 
bleeding from diseased retinal vessels, bleeding from abnormal new vessels or 
extension of haemorrhage through the retina from other sources. In the elderly, 
vitreous haemorrhage usually occurs spontaneously and only occurs occasionally 
as a result of trauma. Appropriate management of vitreous haemorrhage is 
dependent on the most likely cause in a particular patient. As always, an 
accurate medical history with a careful clinical examination, static and dynamic 
ultrasonography performed by an experienced examiner, results of other 
laboratory tests and an understanding of the common causes of vitreous 
haemorrhage in each age group is essential to come to a 'best guess' diagnosis 
as to the cause of the vitreous haemorrhage and thus guide the physician toward 
the appropriate management. Immediate surgical removal of blood if indicated, as 
well as improving the vision gives the added benefit of allowing a full 
examination of the underlying retina. For those in whom surgical removal of 
blood is not recommended, a careful and frequent follow-up with serial B-scan 
ultrasound allows the 'best guess' diagnosis to be confirmed at each visit, 
until such time as the vitreous haemorrhage resolves sufficiently to allow a 
full and proper examination of the retina. Where there is a confirmed retinal 
tear, retinal detachment or other fundal pathology these are treated 
appropriately with laser or surgery (vitrectomy). Preventative measures are 
dependent on the underlying cause of vitreous haemorrhage. Some of the 
underlying causes such as posterior vitreous detachment cannot be prevented. In 
others, such as retinal vein occlusion, measures may need to be taken so as to 
reduce the risk of a similar event in the same or fellow eye and to reduce the 
risk of potentially life-threatening associated systemic conditions such as a 
stroke or myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200320090-00003
PMID: 12831290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5(1):29-38. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00179.x.

Implant-retained mandibular overdentures with immediate loading: a 3- to 8-year 
prospective study on 328 implants.

Chiapasco M(1), Gatti C.

Author information:
(1)Head and chairman, Unit of Oral Surgery, Department of Medicine, Surgery, and 
Dentistry, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. chiapasco@unimi.it

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to evaluate prospectively survival and 
success rates of implants placed in the interforaminal area of edentulous 
mandibles and immediately loaded with an implant-supported overdenture.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighty-two patients, 33 males and 49 females, aged 
between 42 and 87 years (mean age 58.6 yr), presenting edentulous mandibles were 
rehabilitated with an implant-supported overdenture in the mandible. Three 
hundred twenty-eight screw-type osseointegrated implants (164 Ha-Ti, Mathys 
Dental, Bettlach, Switzerland; 84 ITI Dental Implant System, Straumann 
Institute, Waldenburg, Switzerland; 40 Brånemark Conical, Nobel Biocare AB, 
Gothenburg, Sweden; 40 Frialoc, Friatec, AG Mannheiti, Germany), were placed in 
the intraforaminal area of the mental symphysis (4 implants per patient). 
Immediately after implant placement, a U-shaped gold or titanium bar was 
fabricated and implants were rigidly connected with the bar and immediately 
loaded with an implant-retained overdenture. Success rate of implants was 
evaluated clinically and radiographically every year after the loading of the 
prostheses according to the following parameters: (1) absence of clinical 
mobility of implants tested individually after bar removal, (2) absence of 
periimplant radiolucency evaluated on panoramic radiographs, (3) absence of pain 
and radiologic or clinical signs of neural lesion, and (4) periimplant bone 
resorption mesial and distal to each implant less than 0.2 mm after the first 
year of prosthetic load.
RESULTS: Of 328 implants placed, 296 were followed up from a minimum of 36 
months to a maximum of 96 months, with a mean follow-up of 62 months. Seven 
implants in 6 different patients were removed owing to loss of osseointegration, 
whereas 18 implants, although still osseointegrated, did not fulfill success 
criteria due to bone resorption > 0.2 mm/year after the first year of loading. 
Despite implant losses, all patients maintained their bars supporting 
overdentures, although in 6 patients they were supported by 3 instead of 4 
implants. The only patient who lost 2 implants received 2 new implants, which 
survived normally. Therefore, the absolute success and survival rates were 91.6% 
and 97.6%, respectively, whereas the cumulative survival and success rates of 
implants obtained with a life table analysis were 96.1% and 88.2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study seem to demonstrate that survival and success 
rates of immediately loaded implants placed in the intraforaminal area of the 
mandible and rigidly connected with a bar through an implant-supported 
overdenture are consistent with those reported in the international literature 
as far as delayed loading is concerned after 3 years of loading. After longer 
observation times, this study demonstrated that, while survival rates of 
implants and bar-supported overdentures are still consistent with results 
published in the international literature pertaining to delayed loading, a 
moderate decrease in success rates of implants was found. Nevertheless, it must 
be stressed that this decrease (88.8 and 90.4% after a 7- to 8-year observation 
period for Ha-Ti and ITI implants) is related only to two implant systems; no 
data are available for the other two implant systems because of the shorter 
follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00179.x
PMID: 12831726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
