

81. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5(1):39-46. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00180.x.

3-year prospective multicenter study on one-stage implant surgery and early 
loading in the edentulous mandible.

Raghoebar GM(1), Friberg B, Grunert I, Hobkirk JA, Tepper G, Wendelhag I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Maxillofacial Prosthetics, 
University Hospital Groningen, The Netherlands. g.m.raghoebar@kchir.azg.nl

BACKGROUND: The long-term success rates achieved in dental implantology suggest 
that flexibility might well exist within the various implant systems to a degree 
that an altered protocol (ie, one-stage surgery and immediate or early loading) 
can be performed under controlled conditions. However, before variations of the 
protocol can be considered for general use, they must be subjected to critical 
analysis, particularly with respect to the predictability of osseointegration, 
alteration of soft tissue barrier, and relative change in bone height around the 
implants.
PURPOSE: The aim of this prospective multicenter study was to evaluate implant 
survival and periimplant conditions around endosseous implants placed in a 
one-stage surgical procedure and early loading.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 170 implants were placed in 40 patients with 
mandibular edentulism and were functionally loaded within 6 weeks with 
overdentures (n = 30) or fixed prostheses (n = 10). All patients and prosthetic 
constructions were evaluated according to a standardized protocol during 3 years 
of follow-up. Cumulative implant survival rates were calculated, and implant 
loss in relation to implant size and bone quality and quantity were evaluated. 
Furthermore, the protocol included assessment of clinical (plaque and bleeding 
scores, prosthesis stability) and radiographic parameters.
RESULTS: Over a period of 3 years, the implant survival rate was 93% for both 
implants and prostheses (fixed or removable). No implants were lost after the 
first year of loading. The periimplant tissues were in a healthy condition. Mean 
marginal bone resorption from the time of loading to the 3-year follow-up was 
0.41 mm (SD 0.52).
CONCLUSIONS: From this study it may be concluded that early loading results in 
good implant survival and proper periimplant health in edentulous mandibles.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00180.x
PMID: 12831727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2003 Jul;112(1):266-72; discussion 273-4. doi: 
10.1097/01.PRS.0000066368.07829.9B.

The aesthetic earlobe: classification of lobule ptosis on the basis of a survey 
of North American Caucasians.

Mowlavi A(1), Meldrum DG, Wilhelmi BJ, Ghavami A, Zook EG.

Author information:
(1)Plastic Surgery Institute, Southern Illinois University, School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62794, USA.

North American Caucasian male subjects (n = 59) and female subjects (n = 72) 
were surveyed, to investigate earlobe height preferences that could serve as 
guidelines for aesthetic earlobe surgical procedures and reconstructions. 
Subjects were asked to rank their preferences for variously shaped earlobes in 
life-size-scaled sketched male and female profiles. Earlobe heights were varied 
on the basis of previously established anatomical landmarks, including the 
intertragal notch, the most caudal anterior attachment of the earlobe to the 
cheek skin (the otobasion inferius), and the most caudal extension of the 
earlobe-free margin (the subaurale). While the intertragal notch-to-otobasion 
inferius distance (range, 5 to 20 mm) and otobasion inferius-to-subaurale 
distance (range, 0 to 20 mm) varied, all other facial and ear anthropometric 
measurements were held constant. Each of the rank orders for the female and male 
facial profiles completed by the female and male subjects demonstrated 
statistical significance, as determined by one-way analysis of variance analysis 
of ranks (p < 0.001 for all four groups). No difference was noted between the 
two sexes' rank orders for either sex (p > 0.05). Therefore, analysis of the 
combined male and female preferences for each sex was completed with one-way 
analysis of variance analysis of ranks (p < 0.001 and p < 0.001) and a post hoc 
Dunn's test, to delineate significant preference differences between subgroups 
with respect to the intertragal notch-to-otobasion inferius and otobasion 
inferius-to-subaurale distances. Both female and male earlobe intertragal 
notch-to-otobasion inferius distances were preferred at either 5, 10, or 15 mm, 
more so than at 20 mm (p < 0.05 for all female and male comparisons). 
Furthermore, both female and male earlobe otobasion inferius-to-subaurale 
distances were preferred, in descending order, at 5 mm > 10 mm > 0 mm > 15 mm > 
20 mm (p < 0.05 for all female and male comparisons). On the basis of the 
findings of this survey, the first classification of earlobe ptosis (based on 
otobasion inferius-to-subaurale distances), as well as a criterion for earlobe 
pseudoptosis (intertragal notch-to-otobasion inferius distance of greater than 
15 mm), is presented. These findings suggest a role for independent assessment 
of the lobule length with respect to its anteriorly attached cephalad component 
(intertragal notch-to-otobasion inferius distance) and its free-margin caudal 
component (otobasion inferius-to-subaurale distance).

DOI: 10.1097/01.PRS.0000066368.07829.9B
PMID: 12832904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2003 Jun;44(3):459-64.

Conservative observational management with selective delayed repair for large 
abdominal aortic aneurysms in high risk patients.

Veith FJ(1), Tanquilut EM, Ohki T, Lipsitz EC, Suggs WD, Wain RA, Gargiulo NJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10467, USA. fjvmd@msn.com

AIM: Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) larger than 5.5 cm should generally 
undergo elective repair. However, some of these patients have serious comorbid 
conditions, which greatly increase operative risk. This study evaluated the 
outcomes of nonoperative, observational management and selective delayed AAA 
repair in high-risk patients with large infrarenal and pararenal AAAs.
METHODS: Among 226 patients with AAAs >5.5 cm, we selected 72 with AAAs 5.6-12.0 
cm (mean 7.0 cm) for periods of nonoperative management because of their 
prohibitive surgical risks. Comorbid factors included a low ejection fraction of 
15-34% (mean 22%) in 18 patients; FEV1 <50% (mean 38%) in 25; prior laparotomy 
in 10; and morbid obesity in 22. Follow-up was complete in the 72 patients for 
the 6-76 months (mean 23 months) that they were treated nonoperatively. 
Fifty-three patients ultimately underwent repair because of AAA enlargement or 
onset of symptoms after 6-72 months (mean 19 months) of observational treatment.
RESULTS: Of the 72 selected patients, 54 (75%) are living and 18 (25%) are dead. 
Seven patients undergoing only nonoperative treatment presently survive after 
28-76 months (mean 48 months). Of the 18 deaths, AAA rupture occurred in only 3 
patients (4%) who had been observed for 12, 31, and 72 months before rupture. 
Nine other deaths (13%) occurred after 6-72 months from comorbidities unrelated 
to the patient's AAA. Six of the 53 patients undergoing delayed AAA repair died 
within 30 days of operation (11% mortality). The mortality for the 154 good risk 
AAA patients, who underwent prompt open or endovascular repair, was 2.2%.
CONCLUSION: These data indicate that some patients with large AAAs and serious 
comorbidities are acceptably managed for long periods (6-76 months) by 
nonoperative means. Substantial delays of 12 to 76 months resulted in an AAA 
rupture rate of only 4%, while 13% of these patients (9 of 72) died of their 
comorbidities unrelated to AAA rupture or surgery and mortality in this group of 
patients, when operated on, was 11% (6 of 53). These findings support the 
selective use of nonoperative observational management in some patients with 
large AAAs and serious comorbidities.

PMID: 12833001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Rev Esp Anestesiol Reanim. 2003 May;50(5):245-9.

[Subarachnoid hemorrhage in a patient with corrected cyanotic congenital 
cardiopathy].

[Article in Spanish]

Benatar-Haserfaty J(1), Fernández-García R, García-Trapero J, Martínez-Rodrigo 
A, Puig-Flores JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Anestesiología, Reanimación y Terapia del Dolor, Hospital 
Universitario Ramón y Cajal de Madrid. jbenatar@hrc.insalud.es

Comment in
    Rev Esp Anestesiol Reanim. 2003 Dec;50(10):549-50.

A 19-year-old man with congenital cyanotic heart disease experienced 
subarachnoid bleeding from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Immediate rebleeding 
with disordered hemostasis caused by prophylactic anticoagulation treatment was 
the cause of death. Medical progress in repairing congenital heart disease or 
attenuating its effects has increased the life expectancy of such patients. 
Anesthesiologists who are not specialized in this area may find themselves 
assuming responsibility for these patients during non-cardiac surgery of greater 
or lesser extension.

PMID: 12833799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Biophys Chem. 2003 May 1;104(1):79-94. doi: 10.1016/s0301-4622(02)00340-x.

Molecular dynamics simulation of the unfolding of the human prion protein domain 
under low pH and high temperature conditions.

Gu W(1), Wang T, Zhu J, Shi Y, Liu H.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Structural Biology, University of Science and Technology of 
China, Chinese Academy of Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Hefei, Anhui 
230026, PR China.

Four 10-ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of the human prion protein domain 
(HuPrP 125-228) in explicit water solution have been performed. Each of the 
simulations mimicked a different environment of the protein: the neutral pH 
environment was simulated with all histidine residues neutral and bearing a ND 
proton and with other titratable side chains charged, the weakly acidic 
environment was simulated with all titratable side chains charged, the strongly 
acidic environment was simulated with all titratable side chains protonated. The 
protein in neutral pH environment was simulated at both ambient (298 K) and 
higher (350 K) temperatures. The native fold is stable in the neutral pH/ambient 
temperature simulation. Through out all other simulations, a quite stable core 
consisted of 10-20 residues around the disulfide bond retain their initial 
conformations. However, the secondary structures of the protein show changes of 
various degrees compared to the native fold, parts of the helices unfolded and 
the beta-sheets extended. Our simulations indicated that the heat-induced 
unfolding and acid-induced unfolding of HuPrP might follow different pathways: 
the initial stage of the acid-induced unfolding may include not only changes in 
secondary structures, but also changes in the tertiary structures. Under the 
strongly acidic condition, obvious tertiary structure changes take place after 
10-ns simulation, the secondary structure elements and the loops becoming more 
parallel to each other, resulting in a compact state, which was stabilized by a 
large number of new, non-native side chain-side chain contacts. Such tertiary 
structure changes were not observed in the higher temperature simulation, and 
intuitively, they may favor the further extension of the beta-sheets and 
eventually the agglomeration of multiple protein molecules. The driving forces 
for this tertiary structure changes are discussed. Two additional 10-ns MD 
simulations, one with Asp202 protonated and the other with Glu196 protonated 
compared to the neutral pH simulation, were carried out. The results showed that 
the stability of the native fold is very subtle and can be strongly disturbed by 
eliminating a single negative charge at one of such key sites. Correlations of 
our results with previous experimental and theoretical studies are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-4622(02)00340-x
PMID: 12834829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Harv Mens Health Watch. 2003 Jun;7(11):5.

Medical memo: new studies offer good news on longevity and disability.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12835128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Med Care. 2003 Jul;41(7):791-801. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200307000-00003.

Variation in the estimation of quality-adjusted life-years by different 
preference-based instruments.

Conner-Spady B(1), Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the interchangeability of preference-based health-related 
quality of life tools and compare the potential gains in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) in patients with musculoskeletal disease.
METHODS: Consecutive patients visiting a rheumatology clinic completed 
health-related quality of life assessments at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months 
with the EuroQol (EQ-5D), Health Utilities Index (HUI3), and Short-Form 6D 
(SF-6D). Patients rated their health changes retrospectively and responses were 
categorized into three groups: better, same, and worse. Correlations and 
repeated measures analysis of variance with post hoc contrasts and a Bonferroni 
correction were used to assess interchangeability of tools.
RESULTS: Results were based on 161 cases with complete baseline data and 98 
cases with data at baseline and 12 months. Correlations ranged from 0.66 to 
0.79. An interaction effect showed that for the better group, the EQ-5D showed a 
significantly greater mean improvement (0.15) than the HUI3 (0.07) or the SF-6D 
(0.05). For the worse group, the EQ-5D showed a significantly greater mean 
decrease (0.19) than either the HUI3 (0.05) or the SF-6D (0.03). QALYs 
differences between the better and worse groups were significantly greater 
(0.23) with the EQ-5D than with the HUI3 (0.11) or the SF-6D (0.09).
CONCLUSIONS: Although results moderately support the idea that the three tools 
are measuring a similar underlying construct, the tools are not interchangeable 
because they are scaled differently and produce varying results. These findings 
have potential implications for the interpretation and comparability of health 
outcome studies and economic analyses. Possible approaches are sensitivity 
analysis or standardization of scores before calculation of QALYs.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200307000-00003
PMID: 12835603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Radiol Med. 2003 Apr;105(4):291-5.

Regarding three cases of descending necrotizing mediastinitis: spiral CT 
assessment.

[Article in English, Italian]

Pinto A(1), Scaglione M, Giovine S, Lassandro F, Gagliardi N, Romano L, Grassi 
R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Diagnostica per Immagini, Azienda Ospedaliera di Rilievo 
Nazionale A. Cardarelli, Naples, Italy.

Descending necrotizing mediastinitis (DNM) is a rare and life-threatening 
complication of deep neck space infection which occurs when infection spreads 
from the deep spaces of the neck, propagating within the soft tissue into the 
mediastinal spaces. The disease has a high mortality rate due to frequent delay 
in diagnosis and treatment. Computed Tomography (CT) is important in determining 
the level of infection, showing the presence and extension of fluid collections 
(with or without gas bubbles) and diffuse soft-tissue infiltration of the 
mediastinal fat, and indicating the best surgical approach and progress of 
treatment. Three cases of DNM evaluated with spiral CT from June 1999 to June 
2001 are presented.

PMID: 12835622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. N Z Med J. 2003 Jun 20;116(1176):U476.

Screening for prostate cancer: a survey of New Zealand general practitioners.

Durham J(1), Low M, McLeod D.

Author information:
(1)Ora Toa Medical Centre, Porirua, New Zealand. john.durham@oratoa.co.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2003 Jun 20;116(1176):U474.
    N Z Med J. 2003 Sep 12;116(1181):U593.

AIM: To determine the views of general practitioners (GPs) in relation to 
screening for prostate cancer.
METHODS: A questionnaire was sent to a random, national sample of 575 New 
Zealand general practitioners, stratified to include equal numbers of rural and 
urban GPs.
RESULTS: The response rate to the questionnaire was 66.3%. A 55-year-old man 
presenting for an annual checkup or requesting advice about screening for 
prostate cancer would be given a prostate specific antigen (PSA) test by 74% of 
GPs. If the same man had a family history of prostate or breast cancer, 93% of 
GPs would carry out a PSA test. Most GPs overestimated the effectiveness of 
screening tests for prostate cancer and were uncertain about the importance of 
associated risk factors. Some form of screening for prostate cancer is performed 
by 97.5% of GPs, and 50% of GPs support a national population-screening 
programme. 'Watchful waiting' is considered to be a reasonable treatment option 
for a man with localised prostate cancer and less than 10 years' life expectancy 
by 40% of GPs compared with 2% for a man with more than 10 years' life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Most GPs undertake screening for prostate cancer, even though there 
is no evidence that screening improves life expectancy and quality of life.

PMID: 12835804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Farm Hosp. 2003 May-Jun;27(3):159-65.

[Cost-utility analisys of multiple sclerosis treatment with glatiramer acetate 
or interferon beta in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Rubio-Terrés C(1), Arístegui Ruiz I, Medina Redondo F, Izquierdo Ayuso G.

Author information:
(1)Hero Consulting. Madrid, Spain. carlosrubio@wanadoo.es

OBJECTIVE: To carry out a cost-utility analysis of the treatment of 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) with glatiramer acetate (copaxone) 
or interferon beta (all, avonex, rebif and betaferon).
METHODS: A pharmacoeconomic Markov model was used to compare treatment options 
by simulating the life of a hypothetical cohort of women aged 30, from the 
societal perspective. The transition probabilities, utilities, resource 
utilisation and costs (direct and indirect) were obtained from Spanish sources 
and from bibliography. Univariant sensitivity analyses of the base case were 
performed.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the average cost per patient (euro in 2001) 
for a lifetime treatment, considering a life expectancy of 53 years, would be 
1,243,906 euros (euro), 1,818,149 euros, 1,763,263 euros, 1,987,153 euros and 
1,704,031 euros with copaxone, all interferons, avonex, rebif and betaferon, 
respectively. Therefore, the saving with copaxone would range between 460,000 
and 737,000 euros approximately. The quality-adjusted life years (QALY) obtained 
with copaxone or interferons would be 10.977 and 6.917, respectively, with an 
average gain of 4.060 QALY patient with copaxone. The sensitivity analyses 
confirmed the robustness of the base case. The interferons would only be 
superior to copaxone in the unlikely hypothetical case that they delay the 
progression of the illness by 20% more than that actually observed in clinical 
trials.
CONCLUSIONS: For a typical patient with RRMS, treatment with copaxone would be 
more efficient than interferons and would dominate (would be more efficacious 
with lower costs) interferon beta.

PMID: 12835817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Med Sci (Paris). 2003 May;19(5):515-6. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2003195515.

[Neurosciences: progress and prospects].

[Article in French]

Aunis D.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2003195515
PMID: 12836376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Card Fail. 1995 Dec;1(5):371-80. doi: 10.1016/s1071-9164(05)80006-5.

Costs and effects of enalapril therapy in patients with symptomatic heart 
failure: an economic analysis of the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction 
(SOLVD) Treatment Trial.

Glick H(1), Cook J, Kinosian B, Pitt B, Bourassa MG, Pouleur H, Gerth W.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Leonard Davis Institute of Health 
Economics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

The clinical results of the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD) 
Treatment Trial have been published previously, but no evaluation of 
cost-effectiveness based on the primary data has been reported. The authors used 
a decision analytic model based on primary data from SOLVD to estimate years of 
survival (overall, by New York Heart Association Class, and quality-adjusted) 
and to estimate costs of nonfatal hospitalizations, ambulatory care, therapy 
with enalapril, and deaths. Clinical and resource utilization data were derived 
from participants in SOLVD, and cost data were derived from the United States. 
Therapy with enalapril during the approximate 48-month follow-up period in SOLVD 
resulted in a gain of 0.16 year of life and savings of dollars 718. During the 
patient's lifetime, a survival benefit of 0.40 year, a cost per year of life 
saved of dollars 80, and a cost per quality-adjusted life year of dollars 115 
with the use of enalapril were projected. The results indicated a net savings 
and gain in life expectancy during the SOLVD treatment trial. The lifetime 
projection suggests that therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, 
such as enalapril, is extremely attractive when compared with many commonly used 
interventions in patients with cardiovascular disease or heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s1071-9164(05)80006-5
PMID: 12836712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Urology. 2003 Jul;62(1):40-5. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00247-4.

Low incidence of ipsilateral adrenal involvement and recurrences in patients 
with renal cell carcinoma undergoing radical nephrectomy: a retrospective 
analysis of 393 patients.

Kobayashi T(1), Nakamura E, Yamamoto S, Kamoto T, Okuno H, Terai A, Kakehi Y, 
Terachi T, Fujikawa K, Fukuzawa S, Takeuchi H, Ogawa O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate, in a retrospective analysis of the outcome of 393 
consecutive patients undergoing radical nephrectomy, the advantages and 
disadvantages of concomitant ipsilateral adrenalectomy with this operation.
METHODS: The medical records, pathologic specimens, and preoperative and 
postoperative computed tomography scans of 165 patients with, and 228 patients 
without, concomitant adrenalectomy were reviewed. The incidence of adrenal 
involvement in the former patients and ipsilateral adrenal recurrence in the 
latter patients was evaluated. The influence of adrenalectomy on the 
disease-specific survival was also assessed by both univariate and multivariate 
analyses.
RESULTS: Of the 165 patients, only 5 (3.0%) had adrenal involvement. All of 
these cases were diagnosed as cT3 or greater preoperatively, and preoperative 
computed tomography detected 4 of these 5 cases. Of the 228 patients without 
adrenalectomy, no ipsilateral adrenal recurrence was observed at a mean 
follow-up of 65.2 months. Ipsilateral adrenalectomy did not confer a favorable 
prognosis on the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the advantages of ipsilateral 
adrenalectomy in patients with normal findings on preoperative computed 
tomography are limited. Concomitant ipsilateral adrenalectomy is indicated in 
cases such as locally advanced tumors with uncertain preoperative imaging 
studies or those with apparent adhesion or inflammation around the adrenal gland 
at surgery, thus suggesting perinephric tumor involvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00247-4
PMID: 12837419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Urology. 2003 Jul;62(1):79-85. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00248-6.

Zonal location of prostate cancer: significance for disease-free survival after 
radical prostatectomy?

Augustin H(1), Hammerer PG, Blonski J, Graefen M, Palisaar J, Daghofer F, Huland 
H, Erbersdobler A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, University of 
Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze the zonal location of prostate cancer as a possible 
predictive feature of progression-free survival after radical prostatectomy.
METHODS: Prostate cancers were divided into three groups according to the 
percentage of cancer volume (70% or more, 31% to 69%, and 30% or less) located 
in the transition zone (TZ). In a total of 307 patients, 5-year progression-free 
probabilities were estimated for different clinical and pathologic tumor 
characteristics using the Kaplan-Meier method. With emphasis on the percentage 
of cancer volume located in the TZ, univariate and multivariate analyses were 
performed to calculate their prognostic significance in predicting 
progression-free probability.
RESULTS: Prostate cancer with 70% or more, 31% to 69%, and 30% or less of the 
cancer volume in the TZ was found in 17.3%, 6.8%, and 75.9% of the patients, 
respectively. Patients with tumors with 70% or more of the cancer volume in the 
TZ had a significantly (log-rank P = 0.0402) greater rate of biochemical cure 
than those with 30% or less (82.1% versus 66.2%). The increasing percentage of 
cancer volume located in the TZ was significantly (P = 0.0258) associated with a 
greater progression-free probability in univariate analysis, but did not retain 
independent significance (P = 0.5748) in multivariate analysis. Instead, 
pathologic stage (P <0.0001), lymph node involvement (P = 0.0189), and Gleason 
score on prostatectomy specimen (P = 0.0023) were independent prognosticators.
CONCLUSIONS: The location of prostate cancer in the TZ was associated with a 
greater overall biochemical cure rate after radical prostatectomy. However, it 
was not an independent prognosticator on multivariate analysis. Therefore, the 
knowledge about zonal location of prostate cancer offers no advantage over the 
well-established prognostic factors in predicting disease recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00248-6
PMID: 12837427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Urology. 2003 Jul;62(1):86-91; discussion 91-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00404-7.

Long-term cancer control of radical prostatectomy in men younger than 50 years 
of age: update 2003.

Khan MA(1), Han M, Partin AW, Epstein JI, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21287, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the cancer control in men younger than 50 years with that 
in older men treated with radical retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) for localized 
prostate cancer in a contemporary series. In the 1970s and 1980s, men younger 
than 50 years old represented approximately 1% of newly diagnosed prostate 
cancer cases. However, with the widespread use of serum prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) testing and increased public awareness of prostate cancer, this 
figure has risen (3.7% to 4%). Previous studies, mostly carried out before the 
PSA era, reported conflicting data with respect to cancer control for these 
younger men treated with RRP.
METHODS: We analyzed the data from 2897 men who underwent RRP between April 1982 
and September 2001. Preoperative PSA level, clinical and pathologic stage, and 
biochemical recurrence were compared between 341 men younger than 50 years old 
and 2556 men 50 years old or older. Disease-free (PSA less than 0.2 ng/mL) 
survival rates were compared using Kaplan-Meier analysis. Pathologic staging was 
compared using logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Men younger than 50 years old had pathologic variables and 5, 10, and 
15-year biochemical disease-free survival rates comparable to men aged 50 to 59 
years (88%, 81%, and 69% versus 87%, 78%, and 71%, respectively). However, 
younger men had a lower incidence of extraprostatic extension (25% versus 31%; P 
<0.02), seminal vesicle involvement (2% versus 6%; P <0.03), and positive 
surgical margins (3% versus 9%; P <0.03), a greater organ-confined disease rate 
(65% versus 49%; P <0.0001), and a trend toward greater 5, 10, and 15-year 
biochemical disease-free survival rates, which did not reach statistical 
significance, compared with men aged 60 to 69 years (84%, 74%, and 67%, 
respectively; P <0.09). Furthermore, younger men not only had a lower rate of 
extraprostatic extension (25% versus 36%; P <0.001), seminal vesicle involvement 
(2% versus 10%; P <0.001), and positive surgical margins (3% versus 9%; P 
<0.001) and a greater organ-confined disease rate (65% versus 36%; P <0.0001), 
they also demonstrated significantly (P <0.003) greater 5, 10, and 15-year 
biochemical disease-free survival rates compared with men aged 70 years or older 
(72%, 58%, and 58%, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Men diagnosed with prostate cancer who are younger than 50 years of 
age and are candidates for RRP tend to have a greater probability of 
organ-confined disease than older men. Younger men also demonstrate greater 
long-term cancer control rates than older men.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00404-7
PMID: 12837428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Pediatrics. 2003 Jul;112(1 Pt 1):15-9. doi: 10.1542/peds.112.1.15.

Early physical activity intervention prevents decrease of bone strength in very 
low birth weight infants.

Litmanovitz I(1), Dolfin T, Friedland O, Arnon S, Regev R, Shainkin-Kestenbaum 
R, Lis M, Eliakim A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Meir General Hospital, Sapir Medical Center, Kfar 
Saba, Israel. litmani@clalit.org.il

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of early range-of-motion intervention on bone 
strength and bone turnover in very low birth weight infants.
METHODS: Twenty-four infants (mean birth weight: 1135 +/- 247 g; mean 
gestational age: 28.5 +/- 2.3 weeks) were matched for gestational age and birth 
weight and then randomly assigned into exercise (n = 12) and control (n = 12) 
groups. Exercise protocol started at the first week of life and involved daily 
extension and flexion range of motion against passive resistance of the upper 
and lower extremities (5 minutes per day, 5 days per week, 4 weeks). Growth 
parameters, bone strength, and biochemical markers of bone homeostasis were 
measured at enrollment and after 4 weeks. Bone strength was determined using 
quantitative ultrasound measurement of bone speed of sound (SOS) at the middle 
left tibial shaft.
RESULTS: Bone SOS decreased significantly in the control group during the study 
period (from 2892 +/- 30 m/sec to 2799 +/- 26), whereas bone SOS of the exercise 
group remained stable (2825 +/- 32 m/sec and 2827 +/- 26 m/sec at baseline and 4 
weeks, respectively). This significant difference in bone SOS was not expressed 
in the biochemical markers of bone homeostasis.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant postnatal decrease in the bone SOS of very 
low birth weight infants. A brief range-of-motion exercise attenuates the 
decrease in bone strength and may decrease the risk of osteopenia.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.112.1.15
PMID: 12837861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Dig Dis. 2003;21(1):25-9. doi: 10.1159/000071336.

Management of acute cholangitis.

Gouma DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
d.j.gouma@amc.uva.nl

Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is the treatment of choice for patients with 
(severe) acute cholangitis. For fit patients without co-morbidity with mild 
cholangitis and CBD stones with a gallbladder in situ, the one-stage 
laparoscopic approach could be considered as an alternative in centers with 
sufficient experience. The results of both procedures are comparable. Open 
surgery is relatively safe. It has a high success rate, good/excellent long-term 
results, but is not very attractive for the patient and should not be used 
routinely nowadays. Therefore, the indication should be limited for management 
of severe complications after ES as perforations of the duodenum, large CBD 
stones and patients with Mirizzi's syndrome or intrahepatic stones with stenosis 
of the bile duct. ES as primary treatment for CBD stones should be followed by 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 'fit' patients. In patients with malignant 
disease, particularly after repeated stent failure and subsequent cholangitis, 
bypass surgery should be considered in patients with a life expectancy of >3 
months.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000071336
PMID: 12837997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Promot Educ. 2003;10(1):6-10, 39.

Health promotion and the non-smoking policy in Korea.

Nam EW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Administration, College of Health Sciences, Kosin 
University, 149-1 Dongsam-dong, Youngdo-gu, Busan, Korea.

PMID: 12838713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Mayo Clin Proc. 2003 Jul;78(7):914-21. doi: 10.4065/78.7.914.

A cultural and economic history of old age in America.

Fleming KC(1), Evans JM, Chutka DS.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of General Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn 
55905, USA.

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2003 Oct;78(10):1312.

The lives of today's elderly population have deep historical precedents by which 
we can better understand current social policies, health care, and retirement. 
The history of old age in America is more complex and varied than most people 
realize. This history has been shaped largely by the search for economic 
security. In the agricultural economy of preindustrial America, few individuals 
saved sufficient resources for their declining years, and most elderly people 
either continued to work or lived in dependent poverty. More than any other 
factor, the lack of family members willing or able to provide for an elderly 
relative resulted in the relative moving to the dreaded poorhouse. Passage of 
Medicare and Medicaid legislation resulted in the rapid development of 
commercial nursing homes, accelerating the trend away from nonprofit and 
government facilities. However, serious deficiencies in care have continued to 
occur, prompting additional federal legislation. Knowledge of the history of 
aging in America can provide a useful touchstone: it can expose past problems 
that could happen again, identify what is worth preserving from the past, and 
help us avoid relearning painful lessons.

DOI: 10.4065/78.7.914
PMID: 12839089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2003 Jul 4;128(27):1494-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-40280.

[Advance Directives: theoretical concept and practical significance in the USA].

[Article in German]

Vollmann J(1), Pfaff M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Geschichte und Ethik der Medizin, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen. 
jochen.vollmann@ethik.med.uni-erlangen.de

The article examines on the basic of empirical data the discrepancy between the 
theoretical demand and the practical role of advance directives. Often advance 
directives have no influence on medical decision-making in clinical care of 
critically ill patients. The vague language of the widely used standard living 
wills and the lack of physician-patient communication in the process of 
delivering an advance directives are contributing factors. However, many 
physicians even disregard patients' preferences in concrete and meaningful 
living wills at the end of life. Besides the lack of information many even 
seriously ill patients do not deliver an advance because they misjudge their 
medical prognosis and life expectancy. Often the communication between patients 
and doctors are blocked because they expect from the each other the first step 
to talk about end of life decisions and advance directives. In this context 
physicians claim lack of time, training in communication skills and their 
discomfort in talking about death and dying with their patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-40280
PMID: 12840774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 2;165(23):2395-8.

[Disability-free life expectancy among 60-year-olds in Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Davidsen M, Kjøller M.

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, Svanemøllevej 25, DK-2100 København. 
hbh@niph.dk

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy can be expressed as average expected lifetime in 
different health states. The purpose of the study was to estimate 
disability-free life expectancy, i.e. average lifetime without disabilities, in 
Denmark and in the counties of Denmark and evaluate the relation between life 
expectancy and the proportion of disability-free life expectancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Prevalence rates of disability (in terms of walking, 
walking on stairs, carrying 5 kg, reading, hearing and speaking) derived from 
the Danish Health Interview Survey 2000 were combined with life-table data and 
disability-free life expectancy was calculated by Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: In 2000 expected lifetime of 60-year-old men and women was 18.8 years 
and 22.0 years respectively and disability-free life expectancy was 14.7 years 
for both sexes corresponding to 78.4% and 66.6% of the remaining lifetime for 
men and women respectively. Differences in disability-free life expectancy 
between counties ranged from zero to three years. In counties with the highest 
life expectancy among women they tended to have a higher proportion of life 
years with disabilities, but there was no correlation between life expectancy 
and the proportion of disability-free life expectancy for men.
DISCUSSION: The results may illustrate theories about the relation between 
increased lifetime and quality of life in terms of health. Increased total 
lifetime for women prolongs the proportion of expected lifetime with disability 
("expansion of morbidity"), whereas for men no correlation was found ("dynamic 
equilibrium").

PMID: 12840999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Psychol Rep. 2003 Jun;92(3 Pt 1):1022-8. doi: 10.2466/pr0.2003.92.3.1022.

Female equality and suicide in the Indian states.

Mayer P(1).

Author information:
(1)Politics Department, University of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Indian suicide rates rose by 76% in the 10 years between 1984 and 1994. In this 
study of the 16 principal states of India, male and female suicide rates in 1994 
were associated with measures of equal education for men and women. Male suicide 
rates were associated with equal life expectancy for men and women. Equal income 
for women and men was not associated with suicide rates. Unlike earlier studies, 
no inverse association was found between equal attainment in education and 
suicide sex ratios. The Indian findings thus do not conform to patterns found in 
more developed economies. Given increasing human development in India, it seems 
probable that suicide rates in that country may increase two to three times over 
coming decades.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.2003.92.3.1022
PMID: 12841479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Indian Med Assoc. 2003 Jan;101(1):16-7, 23.

Treating tuberculous lymphadenitis--ifs and buts.

Mukherjee S(1), Sarkar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of TB and Respiratory Diseases, Calcutta National Medical College 
& Hospital, Calcutta.

Treatment of tuberculous (TB) lymphadenitis is virtually a specialist's job due 
to multiple aetiopathological factors. Diagnosis is difficult often requiring 
biopsy for several times. Treatment monitoring is more complex due to peculiar 
behaviour of TB lymph nodes. Situation has become worse due to sharp increase in 
the incidence of atypical mycobacteria. Due to profound improvement in 
antibiotic action, life-expectancy of immuno-compromised patients has also 
increased along with increased incidence of atypical mycobacteria in them. 
Clarithromycin, ethambutol, rifabutin and amikacin seem to act best on atypical 
mycobacteria-induced lymphadenitis. Along with rise of multi-drug resistance 
(MDR), drug-resistant TB lymphadenitis cases are also on the rise.

PMID: 12841501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Health Econ. 2003 Jul;22(4):575-98. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00043-2.

Resource allocation for control of infectious diseases in multiple independent 
populations: beyond cost-effectiveness analysis.

Brandeau ML(1), Zaric GS, Richter A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, Terman 
Building, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. brandeau@stanford.edu

Traditional cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) assumes that program costs and 
benefits scale linearly with investment-an unrealistic assumption for epidemic 
control programs. This paper combines epidemic modeling with optimization 
techniques to determine the optimal allocation of a limited resource for 
epidemic control among multiple noninteracting populations. We show that the 
optimal resource allocation depends on many factors including the size of each 
population, the state of the epidemic in each population before resources are 
allocated (e.g. infection prevalence and incidence), the length of the time 
horizon, and prevention program characteristics. We establish conditions that 
characterize the optimal solution in certain cases.

DOI: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00043-2
PMID: 12842316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Jul;76(1):75-83. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00341-2.

Current determinants of operative mortality in 1400 patients requiring aortic 
valve replacement.

Florath I(1), Rosendahl UP, Mortasawi A, Bauer SF, Dalladaku F, Ennker IC, 
Ennker JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Heart Institute Lahr/Baden, Lahr, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Determinants of operative mortality after aortic valve replacement 
vary with a changing patient population due to advances in operative management 
and increasing life expectancy. In order to predict current groups of high risk 
patients, a statistically valid large study population base recruited over a 
short period of time is required.
METHODS: Between January 1996 and June 2001, 1408 aortic valves were replaced in 
1400 patients (572 of them with simultaneous coronary artery bypass grafting). 
The data were analyzed by multivariate logistic regression to evaluate the 
operative risk. Mean age of the study population was 68 +/- 11 years (range 19 
to 90 years old, 44% female).
RESULTS: Overall operative mortality (within 30 days) was 3.8%. Independent 
predictive factors for operative mortality were previous bypass surgery, 
emergency operation, simultaneous mitral valve replacement, renal dysfunction, 
more than 80 years old, simultaneous bypass surgery in female patients with a 
body mass index greater than 29 kg/m(2), and height smaller than 1.57 m for 
patients more than 71 years old. Simultaneous coronary artery bypass grafting in 
general (p = 0.6), previous aortic valve replacement (p = 0.59), and 
implantation of stented bioprostheses (p = 0.39) or stentless bioprostheses (p = 
0.7) were not identified as independent risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain groups of patients with a high operative risk were 
identified: patients more than 80 years old, women with a body mass index 
greater 29 kg/m(2) undergoing simultaneous coronary artery bypass surgery, and 
"small" patients more than 71 years old.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)00341-2
PMID: 12842517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Blood. 2003 Oct 15;102(8):3052-9. doi: 10.1182/blood-2003-03-0855. Epub 2003
Jul  3.

Reduced-intensity conditioning for unrelated donor hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation as treatment for myeloid malignancies in patients older than 55 
years.

Wong R(1), Giralt SA, Martin T, Couriel DR, Anagnostopoulos A, Hosing C, 
Andersson BS, Cano P, Shahjahan M, Ippoliti C, Estey EH, McMannis J, Gajewski 
JL, Champlin RE, de Lima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Blvd, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from unrelated donors is an effective 
treatment for myeloid malignancies, but its use is usually restricted to young 
patients without comorbidities. The development of reduced-intensity preparative 
regimens has allowed the extension of this form of treatment to older and 
medically infirm patients. We assessed the outcomes of patients older than 54 
years who received unrelated donor transplants for the treatment of myeloid 
malignancies in our institution. There were 29 patients (median age, 59 years) 
with advanced acute myeloid leukemia (n = 13), myelodysplastic syndrome (n = 7), 
and chronic myeloid leukemia (n = 9) included. With a median follow-up of 27 
months, the probability of overall and event-free survival, and nonrelapse 
mortality at one year were 44%, 37%, and 55%, respectively. Grades II to IV 
acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) occurred in 41% of patients and chronic 
GVHD developed in 63% of patients surviving more than 100 days. Of the 11 
survivors, 9 were interviewed and reported good quality of life after 
transplantation using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Bone Marrow 
Transplant Scale (FACT-BMT) questionnaire, with high scores in all dimensions. 
Unrelated donor transplantation is a treatment option for older patients with 
myeloid malignancies. The results in this cohort of patients are comparable with 
those reported in younger patients with similarly advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2003-03-0855
PMID: 12842990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Jul;88(7):3167-76. doi:
10.1210/jc.2002-021827.

Randomized placebo-controlled trial of androgen effects on muscle and bone in 
men requiring long-term systemic glucocorticoid treatment.

Crawford BA(1), Liu PY, Kean MT, Bleasel JF, Handelsman DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, ANZAC Research Institute, Royal Prince Alfred 
Hospital and University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
brcrawfo@mail.usyd.edu.au

Long-term glucocorticoid therapy in men is associated with loss of bone and 
muscle mass as well as a decrease in serum testosterone. We tested the effect of 
two androgens, testosterone and its minimally aromatizable analog nandrolone, on 
muscle mass (dual x-ray absorptiometry), muscle strength (knee flexion and 
extension by isokinetic dynamometry), bone mineral density (BMD), and quality of 
life (Qualeffo-41 questionnaire) in 51 men on a mean daily prednisone dose of 
12.6 +/- 2.2 mg. Men were randomized, double blind, to testosterone (200 mg 
mixed esters), nandrolone decanoate (200 mg), or placebo given every fortnight 
by im injection for 12 months. At 12 months, both androgens increased muscle 
mass (mean change from baseline +3.5%, +5.8%, and -0.9% in testosterone, 
nandrolone, and placebo groups, respectively, P < 0.0001) and muscle strength (P 
< 0.05). Lumbar spine BMD increased significantly only in men treated with 
testosterone (4.7 +/- 1.1%, P < 0.01). There was no significant change in hip or 
total body BMD. Testosterone, but not nandrolone or placebo, improved overall 
quality of life (P < 0.001). These results suggest that androgen therapy may 
have a role in ameliorating adverse effects of glucocorticoid therapy such as 
muscle and bone loss and aromatization is necessary for androgen action on bone 
but not on muscle.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2002-021827
PMID: 12843161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Jul;88(7):3227-35. doi:
10.1210/jc.2002-021201.

Glycosylation of an N-terminal extension prolongs the half-life and increases 
the in vivo activity of follicle stimulating hormone.

Perlman S(1), van den Hazel B, Christiansen J, Gram-Nielsen S, Jeppesen CB, 
Andersen KV, Halkier T, Okkels S, Schambye HT.

Author information:
(1)Maxygen, DK-2970 Hoersholm, Denmark.

FSH is a key component in assisted reproductive technologies. Because of rapid 
clearance of the hormone, patients have to be treated with daily injections. To 
address this problem, a long-acting FSH mutein was created by introduction of 
additional N-linked glycosylation into the molecule. New glycosylation sites 
were introduced by two different approaches: structure-aided, site-directed 
introduction of sites within the FSH molecule and addition of N-terminal 
extensions. A mutein with the extension sequence ANITVNITV at the N terminus of 
the alpha-chain (FSH1208) was efficiently glycosylated at both new sites. This 
resulted in a molecule with increased size and charge, factors known to reduce 
renal clearance of proteins. FSH1208 was found to have a 3- to 4-fold increased 
serum half-life, compared with wild-type recombinant FSH. Furthermore, in spite 
of a lower in vitro activity, FSH1208 had a markedly increased in vivo potency, 
as shown by increased ability to augment the ovarian weight and stimulate the 
serum estradiol levels in rats. These characteristics make FSH1208 a possible 
candidate for improved infertility treatment.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2002-021201
PMID: 12843169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Jul;88(7):3299-304. doi:
10.1210/jc.2002-021810.

Polymorphic variants of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) receptor and 
phosphoinositide 3-kinase genes affect IGF-I plasma levels and human longevity: 
cues for an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of life span control.

Bonafè M(1), Barbieri M, Marchegiani F, Olivieri F, Ragno E, Giampieri C, 
Mugianesi E, Centurelli M, Franceschi C, Paolisso G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, University of Bologna, 40126 Bologna, 
Italy. giuseppe.paolisso@unina2.it

Current literature indicates that abrogation of the IGF-I response pathway 
affects longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans, and that the down-regulation of 
IGF-I gene expression is associated with an extension of the life span in mice. 
In this paper we tested the hypothesis that polymorphic variants of IGF-I 
response pathway genes, namely IGF-IR (IGF-I receptor; G/A, codon 1013), PI3KCB 
(phosphoinositol 3-kinase; T/C, -359 bp; A/G, -303 bp), IRS-1 (insulin receptor 
substrate-1; G/A, codon 972), and FOXO1A (T/C, +97347 bp), play a role in 
systemic IGF-I regulation and human longevity. The major finding of this 
investigation was that subjects carrying at least an A allele at IGF-IR have low 
levels of free plasma IGF-I and are more represented among long-lived people. 
Moreover, genotype combinations at IGF-IR and PI3KCB genes affect free IGF-I 
plasma levels and longevity. These findings represent the first indication that 
free IGF-I plasma levels and human longevity are coregulated by an overlapping 
set of genes, contributing to the hypothesis that the impact of the 
IGF-I/insulin pathway on longevity is a property that has been evolutionarily 
conserved throughout the animal kingdom.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2002-021810
PMID: 12843179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Vasc Surg. 2003 Jul;38(1):123-8. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(03)00082-x.

Use of external iliac artery in renal revascularization surgery: long-term 
angiographic assessment.

da Gama AD(1), Sarmento CS, do Carmo GX, Machado FS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Santa Maria Hospital and University of Lisbon 
Medical School, Lisbon, Portugal. dinisdagama@clix.pt
