
PURPOSE: The external iliac artery has physical characteristics, in particular, 
caliber and length, similar to those of the renal artery and would thus seem to 
be an ideal substitute for it. However, there are no studies in the literature 
designed to confirm this possibility. The present study was designed to 
demonstrate the feasibility of use of the external iliac artery as a substitute 
for the renal artery in surgical revascularization of renal artery 
fibrodysplasia and to assess the long-term biologic behavior of the external 
iliac artery so used.
METHODS: Twelve patients (11 female, 1 male), ages 1 to 43 years (mean, 24.4 
years), with severe hypertension underwent aortorenal bypass grafting with use 
of the external iliac artery to treat preocclusive stenotic lesions (n = 7), 
complete occlusion (n = 3), or aneurysm (n = 2) of the renal artery. It was 
considered unnecessary to reestablish circulation in the donor limb in 2 
patients (young children), and transposition of the ipsilateral internal iliac 
artery was performed in 9 patients; in the remaining patient circulation was 
reestablished with insertion of an iliofemoral prosthesis.
RESULTS: There were no operative deaths. In 1 patient nephrectomy was necessary 
because of occlusion of the graft as a consequence of technical complications. 
In 8 patients there was immediate normalization of blood pressure without aid of 
medication, and in the remaining 3 patients an antihypertensive drug was 
prescribed. Two patients were lost to follow-up; the other 9 were assessed with 
angiography at a mean of 8.8 years after the operation. All grafts were found to 
be in excellent condition, with no evidence of dilatation, kinking, twisting, 
anastomotic fibroplasia, or wall irregularities.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of this experience, the external iliac artery is 
confirmed as a substitute for the renal artery, and the excellent long-term 
results would seem to make it particularly useful in young patients with long 
life expectancy, such as those with renal artery fibrodysplasia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(03)00082-x
PMID: 12844101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Exp Brain Res. 2003 Sep;152(1):87-94. doi: 10.1007/s00221-003-1511-8. Epub
2003  Jul 3.

Flexor bias of joint position in humans during spaceflight.

McCall GE(1), Goulet C, Boorman GI, Roy RR, Edgerton VR.

Collaborators: Edgerton VR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Science, University of California, 621 Circle 
Drive South, 2301 Life Science, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(2)U CA, Los Angeles

The ability to estimate ankle and elbow joint position was tested before, 
during, and after a 17-day spaceflight. Subjects estimated targeted joint angles 
during isovelocity (IsoV) joint movements with agonist muscle groups either 
active or relaxed. These movements included elbow extension (EE) and elbow 
flexion (EF), and plantarflexion (PF) and dorsiflexion (DF) of the ankle. 
Subjects also estimated these joint positions while moving the dynamometer at 
their chosen (variable) velocity (VarV) during EE and PF. For IsoV tests, no 
differences were observed between active and passive movements for either the 
ankle or elbow. Compared with those of pre-flight test days, estimates of 
targeted elbow joint angles were approximately 5 degrees to 15 degrees more 
flexed in-flight, and returned toward the pre-flight values during recovery. The 
spaceflight effects for the ankle were inconsistent and less prevalent than 
those for the elbow. The VarV PF test condition for the 120 degrees target angle 
at the ankle exhibited approximately 5 degrees to 7 degrees more DF target angle 
estimates in-flight compared with those pre- or post-flight. In contrast, during 
IsoV PF there was a tendency for ankle estimates to be approximately 2 degrees 
to 3 degrees more PF after 2-3 days exposure to spaceflight. These data indicate 
that during spaceflight the perception of elbow extension is greater than 
actuality, and are consistent with the interpretation that microgravity induced 
a flexor bias in the estimation of the actual elbow joint position. Moreover, 
these effects in joint proprioception during spaceflight were observed in 
individual isolated single-joint movements during tasks in which vestibular 
function in maintaining posture were minimal.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-003-1511-8
PMID: 12844202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Jan 8;2003(1):VP1. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.1.vp1.

An engineer's approach to the development of real anti-aging medicine.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EH, UK. ag24@gen.cam.ac.uk

In this Viewpoint, I list the various age-related molecular and cellular changes 
that are thought to limit mammalian life-span, and I outline a problem-solving 
approach to reversing these detrimental changes. This approach should help to 
prevent the development of these age-related changes into life-threatening 
pathologies and possibly, in due course, allow a large increase in healthy human 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.1.vp1
PMID: 12844502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Jul 2;2003(26):PE18. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.26.pe18.

The future of human longevity--how important are markets and innovation?

Vaupel JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
JWV@demogr.mpg.de

In a hearing before the United States Senate Special Committee on Aging, a 
well-respected demographer warns that there is no evidence of slowing in the 
long-term rise in best-practice life expectancy in developed countries. The 
author discusses how these findings will affect the future of Social Security 
and argues for a larger, more focused effort with respect to longevity research 
by demographers, epidemiologists, and economists.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.26.pe18
PMID: 12844538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Feb 26;2003(8):RE2. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.8.re2.

Subfield history: caloric restriction, slowing aging, and extending life.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology at the University of Texas Health Science Center, 
San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA. masoro@aol.com

Caloric restriction has resulted in a consistent robust increase in the maximal 
length of life in mammalian species. This article reviews significant advances 
over the long history of research on calorie restriction and longevity.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.8.re2
PMID: 12844547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Feb 5;2003(5):PE3. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.5.pe3.

Structure-(Dys)function relationships in mitochondrial electron transport chain 
complex II?

Kristal BS(1), Krasnikov BF.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Service of the Burke Medical Research Institute, White 
Plains, NY 10605, USA. bkristal@burke.org

It has been postulated that mitochondrially derived reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) play a major causative role in aging processes. The primary sources of 
these oxidants are believed to be complexes I and III of the electron transport 
chain, with little evidence supporting oxidant formation at complex II 
(succinate dehydrogenase). Mutation of a complex II protein has, however, been 
shown to cause increased oxidative stress and decreased life expectancy in the 
Caenorhabditis elegans mutant mev-1. A recent study by Yankovskaya and 
colleagues, in which the structure of Escherichia coli succinate dehydrogenase 
was determined, provides an explanation for these observations. Furthermore, 
these results suggest possible mechanisms by which electron leakage might occur 
at this site in the aged organism.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.5.pe3
PMID: 12844553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Acta Neuropathol. 2003 Sep;106(3):234-42. doi: 10.1007/s00401-003-0724-z.
Epub  2003 Jul 5.

Encephalopathy in megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome 
patients on long-term total parenteral nutrition possibly due to selenium 
deficiency.

Hirato J(1), Nakazato Y, Koyama H, Yamada A, Suzuki N, Kuroiwa M, Takahashi A, 
Matsuyama S, Asayama K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Gunma University School of Medicine, 3-39-22 
Showamachi, 371-8511 Maebashi, Japan. jhirato@med.gunma-u.ac.jp

This report concerns two patients (female, 9 and 6 years) who were diagnosed 
with megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS). Although 
they exceeded the usual life expectancy of patients diagnosed with MMIHS because 
of total parenteral nutrition (TPN), they demonstrated progressive neurological 
deficits and showed histopathological features in the brain. Both patients were 
diagnosed with MMIHS in the neonatal period and were fed by TPN. The first 
patient developed visual and gait disturbances at the age of 7 years. Two months 
later, she developed dysarthria and muscular weakness, and could not maintain 
her posture. The level of serum selenium was extremely low. The second patient 
developed flexion and spasticity of the extremities followed by decorticate 
posture at the age of 3 years. Both patients died of sepsis. The brain weights 
of the two cases were 880 g and 715 g. In both cases, severe neuronal loss and 
gliosis were present in the medial convolutions of the occipital lobe, including 
the visual cortex. The postcentral gyrus and temporal transverse gyrus were also 
involved. In addition, extensive loss of Purkinje cells and granular neurons, 
and gliosis were observed in the cerebellum. We measured the selenium content of 
the brains and livers using the graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry 
method. Selenium was not detected in either brain, although the livers of both 
cases contained a low level of selenium. On immunohistochemical examination of 
the anti-oxidative enzymes, histiocyte-macrophage lineage cells in MMIHS cases, 
including microglia and Kupffer cells, showed only a weak reaction for 
glutathione peroxidase, of which selenium is an essential component. However, 
the cells in the control cases were strongly positive. In cases of MMIHS and 
methylmercury intoxication, the brain features similar lesions, in both their 
topographical and histopathological aspects. We considered that the brain 
lesions of the MMIHS patients mainly resulted from oxidative damage of the brain 
related to the low levels of glutathione peroxidase and other selenoproteins due 
to selenium deficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-003-0724-z
PMID: 12845451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2003 Jun;111(4):230-1. doi:
10.1055/s-2003-40468.

Androgens shorten the longevity of women: sopranos last longer.

Nieschlag E(1), Kramer U, Nieschlag S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the Westphalian Wilhelms-University, 
Münster, Germany. nieschl@uni-muenster.de

Earlier we found that longevity of castrati was identical to that of intact 
singers. These findings were in disagreement with the prevailing concept that 
testosterone might shorten life and might be responsible for the shorter life 
expectancy of men compared to women. We have now continued our research into the 
life expectancy of singers, considering them as a paradigm of nature to 
investigate life-long effects of sex hormones, and resulting in the finding that 
sopranos, being more oestrogenised, live significantly longer than altos who are 
more androgenised, while basses, more androgenised, show a tendency towards a 
longer life than tenors, who are less androgenised. These findings, supported by 
results of epidemiological investigations indicate that women are protected from 
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and osteoporosis by higher oestrogen levels, 
while the same effect maybe exerted in men by testosterone.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-40468
PMID: 12845562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. MMW Fortschr Med. 2003 May 22;145(21):30-2.

[Type 2 diabetes in the middle aged. Strict goals from the very beginning!].

[Article in German]

Otto H(1).

Author information:
(1)DiabNord Zentrum für Diabetes, Bremen.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus in the middle-aged, that is the onset of diabetes 
before the age of 65, accounts for fifty percent of all diabetic patients. 
Because of their relatively long life expectancy, this age group carries a 
particular risk of experiencing microvascular and macrovascular sequelae. In 
view of this, the following therapeutic objectives must be strictly applied: 
near-normalization of blood glucose, HbA1c (< 7.0%), blood pressure (< 140/90 
mmHg), LDL cholesterol (< 130/100 mg/dl). Permanent weight reduction in the 
initial phase may delay disease progression for years. Guidelines issued by the 
German Diabetes Association require that middle-aged type 2 diabetics should 
receive 20-24 hours of structured instruction in closed groups, since the brief 
information provided by the doctor's assistant is inadequate in this age group.

PMID: 12845864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Demography. 2003 May;40(2):201-16. doi: 10.1353/dem.2003.0018.

Decomposing change in life expectancy: a bouquet of formulas in honor of Nathan 
Keyfitz's 90th birthday.

Vaupel JW(1), Romo VC.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Str. 1, D-18057 
Rostock, Germany. vaupel@demogr.mpg.de

We extend Nathan Keyfitz's research on continuous change in life expectancy over 
time by presenting and proving a new formula for decomposing such change. The 
formula separates change in life expectancy over time into two terms. The first 
term captures the general effect of reduction in death rates at all ages, and 
the second term captures the effect of heterogeneity in the pace of improvement 
in mortality at different ages. We extend the formula to decompose change in 
life expectancy into age-specific and cause-specific components, and apply the 
methods to analyze changes in life expectancy in Sweden and Japan.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2003.0018
PMID: 12846129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Value Health. 2003 Jul-Aug;6 Suppl 1:S52-63. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.6.s1.6.x.

Challenges to achieving value in drug spending in a decentralized country: the 
Spanish case.

Antoñanzas F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Business, University of La Rioja and Soikos, 
Logroño, Spain. fernando.antonanzas@dee.unirioja.es

OBJECTIVES: This article presents an overview of the Spanish health sector 
variables and drug policies as well as highlights the perspectives of new 
reforms.
METHODS: Initially, the text frames the health sector in the sociodemographic 
context; it describes the past two decades of demographic changes noting 
particularly the very low birth rate and the growth in the proportion of the 
elderly. It also summarizes the main aggregate economic trends emphasizing the 
gross national product growth of near an annual 4% for the past 10 years and the 
decrease in the unemployment rate from high values of approximately 20% to half 
that rate in the same period, together with a stabilization of the inflation 
rate around 4%, still higher than EU average values. Second, this article 
describes the Spanish health sector organization and financing, underlining that 
it is mostly a publicly funded system (approximately 80% of total health-care 
expenditures are public) and that the universal coverage is financed out of 
general taxation after two decades of transition from social security-based 
premiums. Simultaneously to that universalization of the health-care rights, 
Spain started a political decentralization process in almost all the spheres of 
the public administration, health issues included. The article describes the 
changes in budgeting, management, and funding that nowadays fully belong to the 
regions.
RESULTS: An essential part of the text is devoted to the pharmaceutical sector 
and its policies. Drug budgets represent almost 25% of the total public health 
expenditures; this proportion is approximately 50% of primary care expenditures. 
The incentive payments to achieve a more efficient prescription are 
approximately 2% of primary care physicians' gross salary. Doctors in hospitals 
have scarce incentives related to this issue. Some examples are presented of how 
this decentralization process affects the pharmaceutical policies that are 
designed and implemented by both the central and the regional governments. 
Regions are currently developing health technology assessment departments that 
will also perform activities on the economic evaluation of drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: The planned reforms will still retain at the central government 
level the control of three major drug policies: authorization, pricing, and 
reimbursement. Several policies are currently focused on increasing the 6% share 
of generic drugs in the total drug market toward the EU average. The 
decentralization will allow the regions to modify some reimbursement policies 
and mainly to establish new incentives on prescription and purchasing procedures 
of drugs by the hospitals. The new drug agency is foreseen to assume the 
utilization of cost-effectiveness studies to provide economic information in the 
pricing and reimbursement processes.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.6.s1.6.x
PMID: 12846926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Infez Med. 1997 Mar;5(1):42-7.

[Survival time of AIDS patients resident in Bologna city and county. 
Recommendations for care planning].

[Article in Italian]

Sabbatani S(1), Di Crescenzo E, Zanna S.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Malattie Infettive-Ospedale Maggiore Bologna.

The authors have analyzed the survival time of AIDS patients (resident in 
Bologna) in the period from 1984 to 1995. The study can allow accurate 
predictions to be made as to the likely volume of admissions to in-patients 
wards and Day Hospital, as well as helping Home Care planning for patients with 
serious social problems. The case histories studied were of 752 adult AIDS 
patients and 13 children. The adult AIDS patients had a mean survival time of 
10.4 months (range 9.6-11.8). By breaking down the case histories into those 
notified between 1984 and 1987, 1988 and 1991 and 1992 and 1995, the greatest 
increase of survival time (mean) with respect to the previous four years period 
was achieved in the period covering 1988-1991: 5.23 months against 10.53 months 
(p<0.05). The life expectancy of persons above 40 years of age is lower than in 
the case of younger patients: 7.7 months against 11.37 months in the age bracket 
26-39 years (P<0.05). The child cases of AIDS showed a survival time of 31.4 
months (range 11.1-55.9).

PMID: 12847311


122. Saudi Med J. 2003 Jun;24(6):669-71.

Polytetrafluoroethylene use for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass in critical 
limb ischemia.

El-Kayali AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, King Khalid University 
Hospital, College of Medicine, Riyadh 11472, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
elkayali@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The question of the best material for above-knee femoropopliteal 
bypass (polytetrafluoroethylene [PTFE] versus vein) continues to be 
controversial. The aim of this study was to evaluate our results of using PTFE 
in above knee femoropopliteal bypass and to determine the predictors which 
affect graft patency.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all above knee femoropopliteal graft 
surgery (PTFE) carried out for limb salvage between September 1997 and October 
2001 at the King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
All records were reviewed for risk factors, presentations, management and 
complications.
RESULTS: In a 4 year period, 52 above-knee femoropopliteal bypass grafts were 
performed in 49 patients. Polytetrafluoroethylene 8 mm grafts were used in all 
bypasses. Preoperative risk factors were diabetes 41 (80%); ischemic heart 
disease 17 (33%); and smoking 23 (44%). There was no operative mortality. 
Primary cumulative graft patency was 94% at first year, 62% at second year, 42% 
at third year, and 35% at fifth year. Twenty-two grafts have been occluded with 
re-emergence of critical ischemia in 18 patients, treated by amputation (5) and 
secondary reconstruction (13), of which 2 limbs required amputation later. Limb 
salvage was 87%. Female gender and non patent tibial vessels were the only 
predictors which affected graft patency.
CONCLUSION: Our results were not comparable in terms of long primary patency as 
those reported with autogenous vein, but comparable regarding limb salvage, 
early patency and ease of use. Preservation of the saphenous vein for use later 
encouraged us towards primary use of PTFE for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass.

PMID: 12847601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Rofo. 2003 Jul;175(7):981-90. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-40433.

[Cost-utility analysis of contrast-enhanced MR angiography with automated 
table-translation for diagnosis and therapy planning in patients with peripheral 
vascular disease].

[Article in German]

Meindl T(1), Berger K, Knollmann F, Zurbrügg H, Mäurer J.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Klinische Radiologie der Ludwig Maximilians Universität, Munich.

PURPOSE: To analyze the cost-utility of contrast-enhanced MR angiography (ceMRA) 
in the diagnosis and the planning of surgical or interventional treatment in 
patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Additional costs and incremental costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year for ceMRA were calculated by a decision model. The 
costs of ceMRA and conventional angiography were compared. Treatment was either 
surgery or PTA. A retrospective analysis of 24 patients provided the data for 
the diagnostic accuracy of ceMRA. The data about quality of life assessment were 
taken from the literature. Costs were calculated in Euro using the current fee 
schedule. The influence of the individual parameters on the model was estimated 
from a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Per quality-adjusted life-year, ceMRA added euro; 24,408.60 in cases 
undergoing radiologic intervention and euro; 24,191.32 in cases treated 
surgically.
CONCLUSION: Despite its high costs, ceMRA is an effective diagnostic procedure 
considering patient benefits. Additional costs do not exceed an acceptable 
range.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-40433
PMID: 12847655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Orv Hetil. 2003 Jun 1;144(22):1061-6.

[Conservative treatment of erectile dysfunction].

[Article in Hungarian]

Papp G(1), Erdei E.

Author information:
(1)Országos Gyógyintézeti Központ, Andrológiai és Urológiai Osztály, Budapest. 
pappgy@hiete.hu

The development of diagnostical and therapeutical methods of erectile 
dysfunction opened new possibilities for patients. In our time, andrologists are 
capable of treating most patients. The ones who cannot be helped are unable to 
lead sexual life due to physical reasons. The application of hormone 
examinations, color Doppler and Rigiscan exams help at establishing diagnoses. 
In the therapy, modern peroral pharmacotherapy is dominant, mainly 
phosphodiesterase inhibitors and central peroral pharmacon are applied. The 
means of getting the vasoactive drugs into the body have been extended 
(subcutan, transdermal, and drugs absorbable through mucosa). Psychotherapy is 
indispensable at some patients. The surgical solution (mainly prosthesis 
implantation) can be regarded critically, yet their presence among therapies is 
necessary. According to authors' opinion, the qualitative development of 
vasoactive drugs (efficacy extension and side-effect reduction) that can be 
simply and conveniently applied in the future.

PMID: 12847815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nurs Econ. 2003 May-Jun;21(3):140-2, 147.

The mega issues of ambulatory care nursing.

Futch C(1), Phillips R; American Academy of Ambulatory Care Nursing.

Author information:
(1)Kaiser Permanente, Atlanta, GA, USA.

PMID: 12847988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Public Health Med. 2003 Jun;25(2):120-4. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg026.

Life expectancies in the United Kingdom and Japan.

Nakaji S(1), MacAuley D, O'Neill S, McNally O, Baxter D, Sugawara K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, Zaifu-cho 5, 
Hirosaki, 036-8562, Japan. nakaji@cc.hirosaki-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Compared with other developed countries, the United Kingdom has 
exhibited less of an increase in life expectancy over the past 30 years.
METHODS: We compared the chronological changes in the age-adjusted mortality 
rates (AMRs) from all causes or major causes, and in life expectancy in the 
United Kingdom and Japan between 1970 and 1997.
RESULTS: In both 1970 and 1997 the AMRs for most major causes were higher in the 
United Kingdom than in Japan; the difference in the AMR between countries was 
smaller in 1970 than in 1997. The difference in the AMR from all causes between 
the United Kingdom and Japan in 1997 was mainly due to differences in the AMR 
for heart diseases. The trend for an increasing difference over time between the 
United Kingdom and Japan in the AMR from all causes was due to the decreased 
rate of AMR from heart diseases from 1970 to 1997 in the United Kingdom being 
lower than those from cerebrovascular diseases in same period in Japan.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that mortality rates could be reduced by a 
change in focus of the National Health Service toward an emphasis on primary 
rather than secondary prevention and associated clinical interventions. The 
greatest priority should be placed on reducing the incidence of heart disease by 
aggressively improving primary prevention.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdg026
PMID: 12848400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Mar-Apr;36(2):103-15. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4943(02)00060-2.

Biological age--what is it and can it be measured?

Jackson SH(1), Weale MR, Weale RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care of the Elderly, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School 
of Medicine, King's College London, East Dulwich Grove, London SE22 8PT, UK.

Biological age is a concept used loosely and with little objectivity to describe 
a shortfall between a population cohort average life expectancy and the 
perceived life expectancy of an individual of the same age. Many biomarkers 
decline roughly linearly with age with a slope of <1% per annum. The use of a 
battery of 16 biomarkers is described as a method of calculating an individual 
biological age. They include: the concentration of prostacyclin in fibroblasts, 
cell membrane viscosity, the electroretinogram, baroreflex regulation of the 
heart rate, the concentration of lymphocytes, leucocyte density and velocity, 
grip strength, cells of the corneal endothelium and the buccal epithelium, neck 
muscle mobility, and vital capacity. Although not subjected to a prospective 
validation, the method might provide an objective approach to this widely used 
concept.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4943(02)00060-2
PMID: 12849085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Sep;57(5):881-93. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00456-2.

Damned if you do: culture, identity, privilege, and teenage childbearing in the 
United States.

Geronimus AT(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 1420 Washington Heights, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109, USA. arline@umich.edu

Why is the broad American public disapproving of urban African American teen 
mothers and unaware that the scientific evidence on the consequences of teen 
childbearing, per se, is equivocal? I focus on the links between culture, 
identity, and privilege. I argue that the broader society is selective in its 
attention to the actual life chances of urban African Americans and how these 
chances shape fertility-timing norms, in part, because this selective focus 
helps maintain the core values, competencies, and privileges of the dominant 
group. Delayed childbearing is an adaptive practice for European Americans and 
an intensely salient goal they have for their children. Yet early 
fertility-timing patterns may constitute adaptive practice for African American 
residents of high-poverty urban areas, in no small measure because they contend 
with structural constraints that shorten healthy life expectancy. European 
Americans put their cultural priorities into action ahead of the needs of 
African Americans and employ substantial resources to disseminate the social 
control message meant for their youth that teenage childbearing has disastrous 
consequences. Their ability to develop a more nuanced understanding of early 
childbearing is limited by their culturally mediated perceptions. Thus, cultural 
dominance can be perpetuated by well-meaning people consciously dedicated to 
children's well-being, social justice, and the public good. The entrenched 
cultural interdependence of and social inequality between European and African 
Americans leads African Americans to be highly visible targets of moral 
condemnation for their fertility behavior, and also sets up African Americans to 
pay a particularly high political, economic, psychosocial, and health price.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00456-2
PMID: 12850113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Sep;57(5):949-58. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00463-x.

The DALY, context and the determinants of the severity of disease: an 
exploratory comparison of paraplegia in Australia and Cameroon.

Allotey P(1), Reidpath D, Kouamé A, Cummins R.

Author information:
(1)Key Centre for Women's Health in Society, Department of Public Health, 
University of Melbourne, Vic. 3010, Parkville, Australia. pascale@unimelb.edu.au

This paper summarises the findings of an empirical investigation of some of the 
technical and social assumptions on which the disability adjusted life year 
(DALY) is based. The objectives of the study were to examine the notion that the 
burden of disease is broadly similar without regard to country, environment, 
gender or socio-economic status and to develop detailed descriptions of the 
experiences of the burden of disease as they related to these contextual 
factors. The study was a multi-factorial exploratory study employing qualitative 
and quantitative techniques to obtain data on the effects of country 
(development), environment (urban versus rural), gender and socio-economic 
status on people with paraplegia. The data provided an extensive and detailed 
compilation of context rich descriptions of living with paraplegia. Striking 
features of the data were the differences between countries with respect to the 
impact of the health conditions on functioning and highlight a context in which 
paraplegia of like clinical severity can be fatal in one environment and not in 
another. While there has been some focus on the control of social determinants 
of disease, there has been little work on the social determinants of the 
severity of disease. The underlying assumptions of the DALY, which ignore 
context in the assessment of the burden of disease, risk exacerbating 
inequalities by undervaluing the burden of disease in less-developed countries. 
There is a need to continue to subject the development of indicators to rigorous 
debate to determine a balance between the assumption of a global "average social 
milieu" and the treatment of each individual as belonging to their own context 
in the assessment of population health in order for indicators to be meaningful 
cross-culturally.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00463-x
PMID: 12850119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2003 Jul;129(2):199-208. doi: 
10.1016/s0166-6851(03)00101-4.

Linker scanning mutagenesis of the Plasmodium gallinaceum sexual stage specific 
gene pgs28 reveals a novel downstream cis-control element.

Chow CS(1), Wirth DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public 
Health, 665 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2003 Dec;132(2):105.

Protozoan parasites undergo complex life cycles that depend on regulated gene 
expression. However, limited studies on gene regulation in these parasites have 
repeatedly shown characteristics different from other eukaryotes. Within the 
Apicomplexa family, little is known about the mechanism of gene expression and 
regulation in Plasmodium spp. We have been investigating the cis-elements that 
control basal expression of a sexual stage specific gene in Plasmodium 
gallinaceum. Previously, we identified by 5' deletion analysis of a reporter 
construct that the 333bp upstream of the translational start site of pgs28 is 
sufficient for basal expression, and that the sequence between -333 and 316bp is 
necessary for such expression. In this report, we identified by linker scanning 
mutagenesis an 8-bp sequence that is essential for pgs28 transgene expression. 
This sequence is a target of sequence-specific nuclear factors. Primer extension 
studies demonstrate that, interestingly, the endogenous pgs28 transcript has two 
5' ends, at -65 and +1. We suggest that this 8-bp sequence, CAGACAGC that is 
situated at +24 to +31 (with respect to the proximal start site), is a novel 
downstream promoter element in P. gallinaceum that appears to function 
independently of a TATA box or an Inr element.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-6851(03)00101-4
PMID: 12850264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2003 Jun;22(2):159-67. doi: 10.1080/09595230100100598.

The costs of not treating hepatitis C virus infection in injecting drug users in 
New Zealand.

Sheerin IG(1), Green FT, Sellman JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Christchurch School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Otago, New Zealand. ian.sheerin@chmeds.ac.nz

This paper estimates future health service costs of the current practice in New 
Zealand of not funding treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections. Costs 
are estimated separately for Māori and non-Māori, male and female IDUs. Markov 
modelling is used to track the infection and progression of HCV to severe liver 
disease and death, and accumulated costs are estimated for the life of the 
cohort. Upper and lower estimates of costs are calculated based on different 
assumptions of the rate of progression of HCV to more severe liver disease. 
Costs are estimated at dollars 24.6 million per 1000 non-Māori men IDUs 
(discounted at 3%), under progression assumptions based on liver clinic studies, 
compared with dollars 10.3 million per 1000 using lower rates of progression 
based on community studies. Similarly, corresponding costs for non-Māori women 
are estimated at dollars 27.6 million and $11.2 million per 1000 IDUs. Costs for 
women are higher because their greater life expectancy is associated with more 
cases of liver cirrhosis (LC) at older ages. Future costs for Māori are lower 
than non-Māori, because Māori are more likely to die at younger ages and hence 
fewer progress to more advanced liver disease. The current situation in New 
Zealand of not treating HCV infections will result in considerable future costs 
as some people with HCV progress to more severe liver disease. Provisional 
estimates are that the accumulated costs of HCV-related liver disease for all 
IDUs currently infected will be between dollars 166 million at lower rates of 
disease progression (discounted at 3%) to dollars 400 million at upper rates. 
Some of the associated morbidity and mortality could have been avoided if the 
HCV infections had been treated.

DOI: 10.1080/09595230100100598
PMID: 12850902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Scand J Public Health. 2003;31(3):211-5. doi: 10.1080/14034940210164911.

Measuring social inequalities in health--politics or science?

Boström G(1), Rosén M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology, National Board of Health and Welfare, Sweden. 
gunnel.bostrom@sos.se

AIMS: The methods chosen for seeking the answers to questions on social 
inequalities in health may heavily influence the results and thereby the 
formulation of appropriate public health policies. This study aims at 
identifying methodological problems in analysing trends about socio-economic 
differences in health. The focus is on whether the results may be influenced by 
the choice of outcome measure, the choice of social groups or by changes in the 
composition of social groups over time.
METHODS: Data sets on socio-economic differences in mortality in Europe 
presented by Kunst et al. and also data sets from the Swedish Survey of Living 
Conditions have been used.
RESULTS: The choice of outcome measures influences the results. Mortality trend 
comparisons between European countries for different socio-economic groups give 
completely different pictures whether using relative or absolute figures. The 
generally lower death rate in Sweden means that even small absolute differences 
give higher relative differences than in countries with higher death rates. 
Using socio-economic group or educational level as indicators of social position 
showed quite different results when analysing social inequalities in smoking and 
overweight in Sweden. The structure of social groups changes over time making 
trend analysis more difficult to interpret. In Sweden the group of 
poorly-educated people has halved in size during the past two decades, and the 
group of highly-educated people has increased. These changes most likely make 
the poorly-educated group a more homogenous and -healthwise - a more negatively 
selected group than it was twenty years ago.
CONCLUSIONS: The most appropriate scientific approach to this problem is to 
present basic data in terms of absolute figures per population before presenting 
relative or absolute differences.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940210164911
PMID: 12850975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Age Ageing. 2003 Jul;32(4):401-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/32.4.401.

Disability-free life expectancy of elderly people in a population undergoing 
demographic and epidemiologic transition.

Jitapunkul S(1), Kunanusont C, Phoolcharoen W, Suriyawongpaisal P, Ebrahim S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: the major purpose of health and social policy in old age is to 
increase quality of life of elderly people. In many demographically developing 
countries, life expectancy is increasing very rapidly, but little information is 
available on survival free of disability.
OBJECTIVES: to determine prevalence and severity of disability among the elderly 
population and to compare disability-free life expectancy and self-care life 
expectancy among different age groups and between men and women.
DESIGN: a cross-sectional multi-stage random sample survey and routine life 
tables for Thailand.
SETTING: national population of Thailand.
SUBJECTS: 4,048 elderly subjects aged 60+ years.
RESULTS: prevalence rates (95% CI) of long-term disability and dependency in 
self-care activities of daily living were 19% (95% CI 17.8, 20.2) and 6.9% (6.1, 
7.7) respectively. Rates of disabilities increased with age and women were more 
disabled than men. The life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy at 
age 60 for men were 20.3 years and 16.4 years, and for women were 23.9 years and 
18.2 years respectively. Self-care life expectancies at age 60, calculated from 
the prevalence of needing help with basic self-care activities, were 18.6 years 
and 21.3 years for men and women respectively. Women spent proportionately more 
of their longer life expectancy in a disabled state than men. Men and women can, 
respectively, expect that 19% and 24% of their life expectancy at age 60 will be 
spent in a disabled state, but may expect only about 10% of their life 
expectancy to be spent unable to manage basic self-care activities of daily 
living.
CONCLUSION: long-term disability is common in old age, affecting a quarter of 
people over 60 years. However, self-care problems are much less common and 
suggest that the social and health care consequences of demographic transitions 
are over-estimated by use of simple questions about limiting long-standing 
disability. Self-care life expectancy provides a useful monitoring tool for 
censuses and national disability surveys.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/32.4.401
PMID: 12851183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. JAMA. 2003 Jul 9;290(2):228-37. doi: 10.1001/jama.290.2.228.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection in an evolving 
patient population.

Salomon JA(1), Weinstein MC, Hammitt JK, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, Mass 02138, 
USA. jsalomon@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2003 Oct 15;290(15):1993; author reply 1994.
    JAMA. 2003 Oct 15;290(15):1993; author reply 1994.

CONTEXT: Approximately 2.7 million US individuals are chronically infected with 
the hepatitis C virus (HCV). As public health campaigns are pursued, a growing 
number of treatment candidates are likely to have minimal evidence of liver 
damage.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of newer 
treatments for chronic hepatitis C infection in a population of asymptomatic, 
HCV sero-positive but otherwise healthy individuals.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model of the 
natural history of HCV infection and impact of treatment. We used an 
epidemiologic model to derive a range of natural history parameters that were 
empirically calibrated to provide a good fit to observed data on both prevalence 
of HCV seropositivity and time trends in outcomes related to HCV infection.
PATIENTS: Cohorts of 40-year-old men and women with elevated levels of alanine 
aminotransferase, positive results on quantitative HCV RNA assays and serologic 
tests for antibody to HCV, and no histological evidence of fibrosis on liver 
biopsy.
INTERVENTIONS: Monotherapy with standard or pegylated interferon alfa-2b; 
combination therapy with standard or pegylated interferon plus ribavirin.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime costs, life expectancy, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The probability of patients with chronic HCV developing cirrhosis over 
a 30-year period ranged from 13% to 46% for men and from 1% to 29% for women. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness of combination therapy with pegylated 
interferon for men ranged from 26 000 dollars to 64 000 dollars per QALY for 
genotype 1 and from 10 000 dollars to 28 000 dollars per QALY for other 
genotypes; and for women ranged from 32 000 dollars to 90 000 dollars for 
genotype 1 and from 12 000 dollars to 42 000 dollars for other genotypes. 
Because the benefits of treatment were realized largely in the form of 
improvements in health-related quality of life, rather than prolonged 
survivorship, cost-effectiveness ratios expressed as dollars per year of life 
were substantially higher. Results were most sensitive to assumptions about the 
gains and decrements in health-related quality of life associated with 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: While newer treatment options for hepatitis C appear to be 
reasonably cost-effective on average, these results vary widely across different 
patient subgroups and depend critically on quality-of-life assumptions. As the 
pool of persons eligible for treatment for HCV infection expands to the more 
general population, it will be imperative for patients and their physicians to 
consider these assumptions in making individual-level treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.290.2.228
PMID: 12851278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2003 Jul;85(7):1351-64. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-200307000-00025.

Unicompartmental arthritis of the knee.

Iorio R(1), Healy WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Lahey Clinic Medical Center, Burlington, 
Massachusetts 01805, USA. richard.iorio@lahey.org

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-200307000-00025
PMID: 12851363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Urologe A. 2003 Jun;42(6):776-86. doi: 10.1007/s00120-003-0360-1. Epub 2003
Apr  29.

[Epidemiology and etiology of overactive bladder].

[Article in German]

Hampel C(1), Gillitzer R, Pahernik S, Hohenfellner M, Thüroff JW.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik der Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz. 
hampel@urologie.klinik.uni-mainz.de

Bladder overactivity (OAB) is a common disease with a socioeconomic impact 
comparable to diabetes mellitus. As life expectancy rises in industrialized 
countries the importance of OAB will further increase. The International 
Continence Society (ICS) recently reported a modified terminology for lower 
urinary tract function and established the symptom-based term OAB. The etiology 
of OAB comprises neurogenic and non-neurogenic detrusor hyperactivity as well as 
detrusor hypersensitivity. Neurogenic detrusor hyperactivity may be caused by 
insufficient cortical inhibition, degenerative neuropathies, and spinal cord 
lesions, whereas bladder aging, bladder outlet obstruction, and chronic bladder 
irritation (UTI, stones, tumors) are possible causes for non-neurogenic detrusor 
hyperactivity. Since most epidemiologic surveys focus on urge incontinence 
without considering urgency frequency without incontinence, epidemiologic data 
concerning OAB are rare. Two recently published multinational prevalence studies 
from Europe and Asia show different prevalence values [Europe: 15.6% (men), 
17.4% (women); Asia: 53.1%(women)], which may be due to methodological 
differences. Both studies report an increase of OAB prevalence corresponding 
with age. The cumulative incidence of OAB is rising faster in aging males than 
in aging females. Two-thirds of the European and one-fourth of the Asian 
individuals affected by OAB complained about impaired quality of life, but only 
60% of the European and 21% of the Asian sufferers have talked to a doctor or 
sought treatment. One out of four patients visiting their health care 
professional for OAB symptoms is currently under medication. To avoid high 
treatment costs and side effects, pharmacotherapy (e.g., antimuscarinics) should 
only be given after detailed diagnostic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-003-0360-1
PMID: 12851768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2003 Jun;17(3):859-72. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00039-x.

Anal cancer: an HIV-associated cancer.

Klencke BJ(1), Palefsky JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of California at San 
Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. 
Barbara_klencke@chiron.com

Although not yet included in the Centers for Disease Control definition of AIDS, 
anal cancer clearly occurs more commonly in HIV-infected patients. An effective 
screening program for those groups who are at highest risk might be expected to 
impact rates of anal cancer just as significantly as did cervical Pap screening 
programs for the incidence of cervical cancer. Despite a relatively low rate of 
progression from AIN to invasive cancer, the scope of the problem is enormous 
based on the prevalence of anal HPV infection and the size of the HIV-infected, 
at-risk population. Thus, the potential benefits of screening, detection, and 
the development of more effective therapy also are enormous. Currently, 
therapeutic HPV vaccines for AIN represent an exciting avenue of research in 
HPV-related anogenital disease. Invasive anal cancer and HSIL (which is believed 
to be the precursor lesion) are expected to become increasingly important health 
problems for both HIV-infected men and women as their life expectancy lengthens. 
Although HAART may have improved the ability of many to tolerate CMT, it appears 
that toxicity of this therapy continues to be a problem for a proportion of 
HIV-infected subjects. The acute side effects present specific challenges to the 
clinician and patient, have an immediate impact on the patient's plan of care 
and dose intensity of the treatment, and ultimately may impact the outcome of 
the planned treatment. Late toxicity may influence the long-term quality of 
life. Small patient numbers, variable radiation therapy doses, limited 
information about viral load, and a potential confounding effect of higher CD4+ 
levels make it difficult to draw any conclusions about the effect of HAART on 
anal cancer outcome. Large, prospective studies will be required before solid 
conclusions about the impact of various factors on anal cancer prognosis and 
outcome can be drawn.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00039-x
PMID: 12852659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Neurosci. 2003 Jul 9;23(14):6005-12. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-14-06005.2003.

Hippocampal cGMP-dependent protein kinase I supports an age- and protein 
synthesis-dependent component of long-term potentiation but is not essential for 
spatial reference and contextual memory.

Kleppisch T(1), Wolfsgruber W, Feil S, Allmann R, Wotjak CT, Goebbels S, Nave 
KA, Hofmann F, Feil R.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, 80802 München, Germany, 
Max-Planck-Institut für Psychiatrie, 80804 München, Germany. 
kleppisch@ipt.med.tu-muenchen.de

cGMP-dependent protein kinase I (cGKI) is expressed in the hippocampus, but its 
role in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is controversial. In addition, 
whether cGKI is involved in spatial learning has not been investigated. To 
address these issues, we generated mice with a hippocampus-specific deletion of 
cGKI (cGKIhko mice). Unlike conventional cGKI knock-out mice, cGKIhko mice lack 
gastrointestinal and cardiovascular phenotypes and have a normal life 
expectancy, which enables us to analyze hippocampal synaptic plasticity and 
learning in young and adult animals. Hippocampal LTP after repetitive episodes 
of theta burst stimulation was impaired in adult (12-14 weeks of age) but not in 
juvenile (3-4 weeks of age) cGKIhko mice. The difference in LTP between adult 
control and cGKIhko mice was abolished by the protein synthesis inhibitor 
anisomycin, suggesting that the impairment of LTP in adult cGKIhko mice reflects 
a defect in late-phase LTP. Despite their deficit in LTP, adult cGKIhko mutants 
showed normal performance in a discriminatory water maze and had intact 
contextual fear conditioning. These results suggest that hippocampal cGKI 
supports an age- and protein synthesis-dependent form of hippocampal LTP, 
whereas it is dispensable for hippocampus-dependent spatial reference and 
contextual memory.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.23-14-06005.2003
PMCID: PMC6740356
PMID: 12853418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Urol. 2003 Aug;170(2 Pt 1):498-502. doi:
10.1097/01.ju.0000076140.68657.fd.

Long-term safety and efficacy of tamsulosin for the treatment of lower urinary 
tract symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Narayan P(1), Evans CP, Moon T.

