Kyoto rat, WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). To test this 
hypothesis, intact and paraplegic SHR and WKY rats were chronically instrumented 
for recording BP-CVD risk factors over 7 weeks. Paraplegia in both the SHR and 
WKY rats increased heart rates (27 and 22% in SHR and WKY, respectively), heart 
rate loads (425 and 323% in SHR and WKY, respectively), the standard deviation 
of systolic (15 and 23% in SHR and WKY, respectively) and diastolic blood 
pressure (15 and 13% in SHR and WKY, respectively) and reduced activity (-70 and 
-57% in SHR and WKY, respectively). Paraplegia in the WKY rats reduced systolic 
(-4%) and diastolic (-5%) blood pressures while systolic and diastolic loads 
were not significantly different. In sharp contrast, paraplegia in the SHR 
increased systolic (6%) and diastolic (5%) blood pressures as well as systolic 
(41%) and diastolic loads (9%). These data demonstrate that paraplegia increased 
BP-CVD risk factors in normotensive and hypertensive rats. Importantly, the 
impact of paraplegia on BP-CVD risk factors was greater in the SHR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02982-2
PMID: 12867264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Postgrad Med. 2003 Apr-Jun;49(2):127-31.

Extended interval between enzyme therapy infusions for adult patients with 
Gaucher's disease type 1.

Pérez-Calvo J(1), Giraldo P, Pastores GM, Fernández-Galán M, Martín-Nuñez G, 
Pocoví M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital Clinico Universitario "Lozano 
Blesa", Zaragoza, Spain. mibh-jperez@hcu-lblesa.es

BACKGROUND: Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) for Gaucher's disease with 
alglucerase or imiglucerase is efficacious, well-tolerated and safe. However, 
cost considerations, visits to medical facilities, potentially duration of 
theray for life, are issues of major concern to a proportion of treated patients 
and has, in some cases, led to the withdrawal of therapy.
AIMS: To elucidate whether an extension of the interval between enzyme infusions 
to once every three weeks is as effective in maintaining the clinical responses 
achieved with the bi-monthly regimen.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four patients with an optimal response to ERT (at 30 
units/kg every two weeks for an average of 27 months), were subjected to enzyme 
dose/frequency changes that essentially constituted a reduction in cumulative 
dose over the treatment period. Patients were assessed every 6 months for 
alterations in haematological parameters, plasma chitotriosidase levels, liver 
and spleen size, and bone symptoms.
RESULTS: All patients had to resume the previous infusion schedule of once every 
two weeks; one because of new bone marrow infiltrates, two because of visceral 
enlargement, and the fourth due to progressive anaemia.
CONCLUSIONS: This limited experience suggests that a reduction in enzyme dose 
associated with an extended interval between infusions may lead to variable 
disease control, and underscores the need for individualization of enzyme 
therapy.

PMID: 12867687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2003 Jun;75(2):75-87.

[The economics of managing patients with prostate cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Scattoni V(1), Lazzaro C, Rigatti P.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Urologia, Università Vita-Salute IRCCS San Raffaele, Milano, 
Italy. scattoni.vincenzo@hsr.it

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the paper is to report on the economics of managing 
patients with prostate cancer (PC).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: After a thorough research on MEDLINE, 15 recent articles 
(1994-2000) concerning the economics of PC have been selected. Costs taken from 
articles were supplemented with accounting data provided by Research and 
Teaching Hospital San Raffaele, Milan. Only medical costs have been considered.
RESULTS: In Western countries, PC is becoming one of the most frequent neoplasms 
among males, with a 20% life-time probability of occurrence. In the near future, 
the global burden of illness related to PC is expected to grow consistently with 
the increasing number of 50-aged men. The average survival of PC patients is 
generally increased, probably due to the improvement of diagnostic tests, 
instruments and programmes. When targeted to selected classes of men, screening 
for early diagnosis of PC seems to be cost-effective when compared to "watchful 
waiting", since cost per Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY) gained ranges between 
US$ 12,502 and US$ 27,025. Healthcare programmes are deemed cost-effective if 
cost per life year (or per QALY) gained is lower than US$ 50,000. In USA, the 
total cost for treating PC patients has reached US$ 1,720 billion per year; cost 
for radical prostatectomy approaches US$ 19,000. The average Italian cost for 
prostatectomy (Euro 4,000) is hardly covered by Regional DRG reimbursement (Euro 
3,600 in Lombardy). When brachytherapy is considered, the gap between cost (Euro 
4,806) and DRG tariff (Euro 3,500 in Lombardy) becomes even wider; this 
difference is mainly due to the high cost of I-125 needles (Euro 55,77 each). In 
1997, USA drug expenditure for PC has approached 761 million US$: LH-RH 
analogues and antiandrogens account for a relevant share of this amount. 
However, LH-RH analogues can be the only treatment option for a metastatic PC 
patient who refuses orchiectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: In managing PC, urologists are increasingly faced with healthcare 
budget constraints. Cost for surgery may be decreased by reducing either 
operating time or length of hospital stay. Drug expenditure may be cut by 
choosing the cheapest of drugs with the same effectiveness.

PMID: 12868144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Recenti Prog Med. 2003 Jul-Aug;94(7-8):309-13.

[Demographic evolution, aging and frailty].

[Article in Italian]

Cicconetti P(1), Riolo N, Ettorre E, Costarella M, Priami C, Marigliano V.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze dell'Invecchiamento, Università La Sapienza, Roma.

The 20th century will be remembered for its technological and scientific 
discoveries and for the exceptional changes in the demographic structure brought 
about by these and the improved economic and social conditions; in fact, the 
reduction in the birth rate and a fall in the death rate have caused an increase 
in the population of the elderly. Today the elderly population represents about 
20% of the total and is much more heterogeneous than in the past, with several 
classes of the elderly: the young elderly from 64 to 74; the old elderly from 75 
to 84, the very old from 85 to 100 and the oldest old who are living around a 
century. The aging of the population has brought out several problems of the 
elderly, among the "frailty", the effects of which increase as the years pass 
and which regards about one half of the very old. Frailty is a reduction of the 
body's ability to maintaine global homeostasis and is caused by a reduction of 
the functional reserves of all the organs and apparatus which occurs with aging. 
Screening the frail elderly with a careful multidimensional assessment is 
important to prevent health problems and to promote good health and it is a good 
parameter in evaluating the management of the geriatric assistance network and 
thus health and social costs.

PMID: 12868236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Rev Med Liege. 2003 Apr;58(4):231-9.

[Nutrition and cancer].

[Article in French]

Castronovo V(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Recherche sur les Métastases, Centre de Recherche en 
Cancérologie Expérimentale, Université de Liège. vcastronovo@ulg.ac.be

The role of a qualitatively and quantitatively altered nutrition for the 
development of cancer in human is largely recognized. While the human life 
expectancy is continuously expanding and the World Health Organization is 
predicting a dramatic rise in the number of patients that will get cancer and 
die from it in the next decades, it is useful to attempt to understand the real 
impact of nutrition at the level of the oncogenesis mechanisms. Oxidative 
stress, methylation deficit and imbalance in the ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 
fatty acids represents situations directly linked to nutrition and which 
contribute to an increased risk for cancer development. The understanding of the 
mechanisms by which nutrition affects these processes should better stimulate 
health professionals to consider with more attention what their patients are 
eating.

PMID: 12868327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2003 Jul;8(3):183-6. doi:
10.1258/135581903322029557.

Patients' views of explicit rationing: what are the implications for health 
service decision-making?

Devlin N(1), Appleby J, Parkin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, City University, London, UK.

Patient groups in England and Wales have expressed concerns about the 
decision-making processes of the National Institute for Clinical Excellence 
(NICE), the body responsible for explicit rationing. Five key issues were 
identified by the Multiple Sclerosis Society regarding NICE appraisals and 
guidance: they focus too narrowly on costs to the National Health Service; 
quality-adjusted life-years are an inadequate measure of health gain, 
particularly for long-term conditions; NICE takes too conservative a view of 
long-term benefits; NICE's cost-effectiveness threshold is inappropriate; and 
NICE evaluations fail to capture patients' personal experiences of their 
condition and treatments. We question the veracity of some of these arguments 
and, where appropriate, suggest ways in which NICE's processes might be 
strengthened.

DOI: 10.1258/135581903322029557
PMID: 12869346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Hum Fertil (Camb). 2003 May;6 Suppl 1:S2-6. doi:
10.1080/1464770312331369153.

Funding fertility: issues in the allocation and distribution of resources to 
assisted reproduction technologies.

Devlin N(1), Parkin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, City University, Northampton Square, London EC1V 
0HB, UK.

The appropriate level and source of funds for assisted reproduction technologies 
(ARTs), in particular IVF, have been controversial in most developed economies. 
Funding of fertility services internationally is characterized by low public (or 
other third party) funding, a greater reliance on user-pays than in most other 
health services, and variations in funding and provision. This article describes 
the characteristics of infertility as a condition and its treatment that have 
been used as a rationale for its exclusion from an otherwise comprehensive 
coverage of health services. The challenges these characteristics pose for the 
use of economic evaluation to inform resource allocation are discussed. Most 
economic evaluations have focused on the cost effectiveness of alternative 
infertility treatments. These evaluations provide important information, but do 
not inform the real issue at stake: what is the appropriate allocation of funds 
to ARTs, given that it involves sacrificing improvements in health in other 
areas? Cost utility analysis - the method of economic appraisal preferred by 
most agencies charged with making such decisions (including the National 
Institute of Clinical Excellence in the UK) - is ill-equipped to deal with the 
benefits produced by ARTs. Alternative methods are available, but require 
decision makers to weigh up very different sorts of evidence. Demonstration of 
the willingness to pay for the benefits of ARTs can be used to support public 
decisions but, conversely, also implies that those who can pay will pay in a 
private market. Ultimately, decisions about the inclusion or otherwise of ARTs 
in collectively funded health systems probably rest as much on judgments about 
equity in access as value for money. Given that this is the case, public funding 
of IVF should be accompanied by the development of agreed criteria for the 
prioritization of potential recipients, to ensure treatment is targeted at those 
for whom it is most effective and that access is consistent and fair.

DOI: 10.1080/1464770312331369153
PMID: 12869768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Hum Fertil (Camb). 2003 May;6(2):81-3. doi: 10.1080/1464770312331369103.

HIV and gamete interactions.

Dimitrakopoulos AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Assisted Conception Unit, 4th Floor, Thomas Guy House, Guy's Hospital, London 
SE1 9RT, UK.

With the development of combination therapies and their use for the treatment of 
the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the health and life expectancy of 
HIV-positive patients has improved significantly. As a result, HIV-discordant 
couples are looking to a future that involves starting a family. However, the 
potential risks of exposing HIV-infected sperm to oocytes are still being 
assessed. This article outlines the clinical detection of HIV in semen samples, 
the relationships between HIV and semen parameters, and HIV-sperm and oocyte 
interactions. It also considers the implications of introducing exogenous 
genetic material into an oocyte via intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and 
the possible implications of this for assisted reproduction.

DOI: 10.1080/1464770312331369103
PMID: 12869790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Dig Dis Sci. 2003 Jul;48(7):1273-83. doi: 10.1023/a:1024146823549.

Cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy for treatment of Barrett's esophagus 
with high grade dysplasia.

Hur C(1), Nishioka NS, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit and Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of photodynamic therapy (PDT) versus surgical esophagectomy 
and intensive endoscopic surveillance for patients with Barrett's esophagus and 
high-grade dysplasia (HGD) who are operative candidates. The results of our 
Markov Monte Carlo model show that PDT increased life expectancy by 1.8 years 
and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) by 1.65 years when compared to the 
surveillance strategy. Relative to the esophagectomy strategy, PDT resulted in a 
greater life expectancy by 0.8 years and 2.17 additional quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Although PDT cost 20,400 dollars and 7,100 dollars more than 
surveillance and esophagectomy respectively, the resulting incremental 
cost-effective ratios (ICERs) of 12,400 dollars/QALY and 3,300 dollars/QALY are 
within commonly accepted values. These findings were sensitive to the value 
assigned to the quality of life after PDT, but only at unrealistic values. In 
conclusion, PDT increases life expectancy and is cost-effective when compared to 
endoscopic surveillance and surgical esophagectomy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024146823549
PMID: 12870783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Asthma. 2003 Jun;40(4):383-93. doi: 10.1081/jas-120018708.

Reduction in oral corticosteroid use with mometasone furoate dry powder inhaler 
improves health-related quality of life in patients with severe persistent 
asthma.

Schmier J(1), Leidy NK, Gower R.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International Inc., Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA.

Severe persistent asthma can have a substantial impact on a patient's 
health-related quality of life (HRQL), both as a result of symptoms and from 
side effects of treatment. The HRQL impact of two doses (400 and 800 microg 
twice daily) of mometasone furoate dry powder inhaler (MF DPI) was compared with 
placebo in patients with severe persistent asthma previously maintained on oral 
steroids as a component of a previously published randomized, 12-week, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial. A 9-month open-label 
extension (OLE), with all patients treated with MF DPI, followed. Patients 12 
years of age or older completed a generic HRQL measure, the Medical Outcomes 
Trust Short Form-36 (SF-36), and an asthma-specific measure, the Marks Asthma 
Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ-M), at baseline, at endpoint (last evaluable 
visit) of the double-blind phase (EODBP), and after the first 3 months of the 
OLE. Of 132 patients enrolled in the study, 128 provided HRQL data at baseline 
and at EODBP. Mean SF-36 scores at baseline showed significant HRQL impairment 
compared with U.S. general population norms. With treatment, the reduction in 
oral corticosteroid (OCS) requirements of the MF-DPI-treated groups was 
accompanied by significant (p < 0.05) improvement over placebo in the physical 
domain of HRQL (SF-36 physical component summary score and the physical function 
subscale) at EODBP. MF-DPI-treated patients also showed significant improvements 
at EODBP in each of the four subscales of the AQLQ-M (p<0.05). From EODBP to the 
OLE 3-month endpoint, patients treated with MF DPI twice daily maintained, or 
improved, SF-36 scores in most domains. Symptomatic improvement and reduction in 
OCS use with MF DPI were accompanied by significant improvement in HRQL in 
patients with severe persistent asthma. These improvements were maintained 
during the 3-month period of the OLE in which HRQL was evaluated.

DOI: 10.1081/jas-120018708
PMID: 12870834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. BMC Public Health. 2003 Jul 18;3:23. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-3-23.

Heterogeneity in regional notification patterns and its impact on aggregate 
national case notification data: the example of measles in Italy.

Williams JR(1), Manfredi P, Butler AR, Ciofi Degli Atti M, Salmaso S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Statistica e Matematica Applicata all'Economia, Università di 
Pisa, Via C Ridolfi, 10, 56124 Pisa, Italy. jr.williams@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A monthly time series of measles case notifications exists for Italy 
from 1949 onwards, although its usefulness is seriously undermined by extensive 
under-reporting which varies strikingly between regions, giving rise to the 
possibility of significant distortions in epidemic patterns seen in aggregated 
national data.
RESULTS: A corrected national time series is calculated using an algorithm based 
upon the approximate equality between births and measles cases; under-reporting 
estimates are presented for each Italian region, and poor levels of reporting in 
Southern Italy are confirmed.
CONCLUSION: Although an order of magnitude larger, despite great heterogeneity 
between regions in under-reporting and in epidemic patterns, the shape of the 
corrected national time series remains close to that of the aggregated 
uncorrected data. This suggests such aggregate data may be quite robust to great 
heterogeneity in reporting and epidemic patterns at the regional level. The 
corrected data set maintains an epidemic pattern distinct from that of England 
and Wales.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-3-23
PMCID: PMC194854
PMID: 12871599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Gastrointest Endosc. 2003 Aug;58(2):207-12. doi: 10.1067/mge.2003.343.

Use of self-expandable metallic stents in benign GI diseases.

Wadhwa RP(1), Kozarek RA, France RE, Brandabur JJ, Gluck M, Low DE, Traverso LW, 
Moonka R.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, 
Washington 98101, USA.

Erratum in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2004 Feb;59(2):332. Traverso, William L [corrected to 
Traverso, L William].

BACKGROUND: The self-expandable metallic stent is of proven benefit in patients 
with malignant disease; however, its use in patients with benign disease is not 
well established. There are few data available regarding long-term complications 
and outcomes with use of self-expandable metallic stents in benign disease and 
virtually none regarding attempted removal once the acute problem is resolved.
METHODS: Thirteen patients who had a self-expandable metallic stent placed for 
benign GI disorders were included in a retrospective analysis. Data collected 
included patient demographics, indication for procedure, type of stent used, 
complications, and patient outcomes.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients (7 women, 6 men; mean age 67 years, range 34-84 
years) had one or more self-expandable metallic stents placed for benign disease 
and were followed for a mean of 3.4 years (3 weeks to 10 years). Of the 13 
patients, 8 had esophageal stents, 4 biliary stents, and 1 had dual stents 
placed in the pancreaticobiliary tree. Complications developed in 8 (62%) 
patients; 4 (31%) ultimately died, either from the primary disease process (3) 
or from stent-related complications (1).
CONCLUSIONS: Self-expandable metallic stent placement is effective treatment for 
benign esophageal leaks, providing the stent can be removed. It also may be used 
in either the esophagus or biliary tree in patients who are poor candidates for 
surgery and short expected survival. However, a self-expandable metallic stent 
should not be placed in a patient with a benign GI disorder who has a 
significant life expectancy and is a good candidate for surgery.

DOI: 10.1067/mge.2003.343
PMID: 12872087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Anthropol Anz. 2003 Jun;61(2):189-202.

Age structure and selected pathological aspects of a series of skeletons of late 
medieval Bernau (Brandenburg, Germany).

Faber A(1), Hornig H, Jungklaus B, Niemitz C.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Humanbiologie und Anthropologie der Freien Universität Berlin.

The age distribution of an excavation site from the late Middle Ages (beginning 
of the 13th century until 1598) in Bernau (Brandenburg, Germany) that contained 
252 skeletons shows a mortality maximum at the age classes infants I and mature. 
The lowest mortality was calculated for the adult age class. 51.6% of the 
individuals died before the age of 20 years. The mortality rate of young women 
was higher than that of young men. The life expectancy of the total population 
was 25 years. Altogether, 87 adult skeletons were examined for degenerative 
joint diseases. Many of the examined joints showed indications of beginning 
osteoarthritis; the intensity of the disease was low or medium severe. The 
highest values were found for the hip joint, followed by the elbow and the knee. 
For all joints examined, women were less often and to a lesser extent affected 
than men, which was noticeable best in the upper extremity. Harris lines were 
found in 75% of the children, 4.7 per average individual. No such lines were 
found by the age of one year, the peak value of the frequency being recorded at 
the age between 2 and 3 years. This can be correlated to the weaning period. The 
comparison to a rural population yielded a higher load with Harris lines in the 
small village, which, however, was not correlated to a higher mortality. 
Altogether, the population of Bernau is characterised by good living conditions 
and a considerable chance of survival for the children, as well as by a labour 
system, dominated by crafts and farming.

PMID: 12872545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Biochemistry. 2003 Jul 29;42(29):8748-55. doi: 10.1021/bi034228l.

Processivity of ribozyme-catalyzed RNA polymerization.

Lawrence MS(1), Bartel DP.

Author information:
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research and Department of Biology, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The "RNA world" hypothesis proposes that early in the evolution of life, before 
the appearance of DNA or protein, RNA was responsible both for encoding genetic 
information and for catalyzing biochemical reactions. Ribo-organisms living in 
the RNA world would have replicated their RNA genomes by using an RNA polymerase 
ribozyme. Efforts to provide experimental support for the RNA world hypothesis 
have focused on producing such a polymerase, and in vitro evolution methods have 
led to the isolation of a polymerase ribozyme that catalyzes primer extension 
which is accurate and general, but slow. To understand the reaction of this 
ribozyme, we developed a method of measuring polymerase processivity that is 
particularly useful in the case of an inefficient polymerase. This method 
allowed us to demonstrate that the polymerase ribozyme, despite its 
inefficiency, is partially processive. It is currently limited by a low affinity 
for the primer-template duplex, but once it successfully binds the 
primer-template duplex in the productive alignment, it catalyzes an extension 
reaction that is so rapid that it can occur multiple times during the short span 
of a single binding event. This finding contributes to the understanding of one 
of the more sophisticated activities yet to be generated de novo in the 
laboratory and sheds light on the parameters to be targeted for further 
optimization.

DOI: 10.1021/bi034228l
PMID: 12873135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003 Jun;56(6):583-90. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(03)00059-3.

Life-years gained from coronary heart disease mortality reduction in Scotland: 
prevention or treatment?

Critchley JA(1), Capewell S, Unal B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Liverpool, Whelan Building, 
Quadrangle, United Kingdom. juliac@liverpoolac.uk

Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) death rates have fallen considerably in many 
countries. We estimated the life-years-gained (LYG) in Scotland between 1975 and 
1994 attributable to cardiology treatments, and population reductions in major 
CHD risk factors, using a previously validated mortality model. This combines 
published effectiveness data with information on uptake of CHD treatments; risk 
factor trends; and median survival by age and sex. Compared with 1975, there 
were 4,536 fewer CHD deaths in 1994, resulting in approximately 48,016 LYG among 
those aged 45-84 (maximum estimate 53,317; minimum estimate 36,867). Medical and 
surgical treatments for CHD patients gained approximately 12,025 life-years; the 
largest contribution coming from pharmacologic secondary prevention. Population 
reductions in major risk factors (smoking, cholesterol, and blood pressure) 
accounted for some 35,991 LYG, reductions in smoking accounted for over 50% of 
this. Modern cardiologic treatments gained many thousands of life-years in 
Scotland, but modest reductions in risk factors gained almost three times as 
many life-years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(03)00059-3
PMID: 12873654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Minerva Stomatol. 2003 May;52(5):241-6.

[Relation between hypogonadism and malocclusion in beta-thalassemia major 
patients: analysis of 122 subjects].

[Article in Italian]

Piras V(1), Tuveri F, Dessì C, Pittau R, Origa R, Basile R, Muroni PP, Pittau A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Odontostomatologiche, Università degli Studi di 
Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

AIM: The type of malocclusion most often seen in beta thalassemic patients is 
represented by Angle's II class, which however cannot be considered significant 
in the patients studied in this research. The only causal factor indicated by 
medical literature for this pathology is medullary hyperplasia due to 
inefficient erythropoiesis which occurs in patients transfused at low hemoglobin 
levels. The aim of this research is to evaluate the influence of other factors 
as well, particularly sexual development, the level of seric ferritin, ALT, and 
age at first transfusion.
METHODS: One-hundred and twenty-two b thalassemic patients and 39 homozygotes, 
aged between 16 and 27, undergoing treatment at the "Ospedale Regionale per le 
Microcitemie di Cagliari", have been analysed.
RESULTS: The results of the statistic analysis have shown that hypogonadism can 
play an important role in determining malocclusions in male beta thalassemic 
patients (Odds ratio 4,5; CI 1,5-13). No other factor has shown any 
statistically relevant influence on dental occlusion.
CONCLUSION: It would therefore be interesting to further investigate the 
hormonal mechanisms that can alter bone development in thalassemic youngsters: 
the prevention of such alterations will surely contribute to improving the 
quality of life in these patients, particularly now that their life expectancy 
has been significantly extended by the progress made in transfusional therapy 
and ferrochelation.

PMID: 12874543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Am J Ind Med. 2003 Aug;44(2):197-206. doi: 10.1002/ajim.10242.

Mortality among chrome leather tannery workers: an update.

Stern FB(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Columbia Parkway, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA. fbs1@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Employees engaged in the tanning and finishing of leather are 
potentially exposed to numerous carcinogens.
METHODS: A previous mortality study among 9,352 workers from two chrome 
tanneries has been updated with the addition of 11 years of vital status and 
work history follow-up and 1,153 new deaths. Ninety-two different causes of 
death were analyzed using a modified life-table approach. Death rates from both 
the United States and the states in which the tanneries were located were used 
as the comparison populations in calculating cause-specific standardized 
mortality ratios (SMRs).
RESULTS: The mortality risks from all causes and from all cancers were lower 
than the expected for the combined cohort. Analyzing the two tanneries 
separately, no a priori cause of death (i.e., cancer of the lung, pancreas, 
bladder, kidney, testes, nasal cavity, lymphoma, or soft-tissue sarcoma) was 
shown to be significantly elevated. An exception was lung cancer at one tannery 
when state death rates were used (SMR=130, P<0.01). Analyzing by duration of 
employment, no significant trend in any cause of death at either tannery was 
revealed.
CONCLUSIONS: Some studies have shown elevated risks for various site-specific 
causes of cancer; however, sites in excess are not consistent between studies. 
The differences may have been due to distinct processes used by the tanneries 
resulting in varying levels, as well as different types, of exposures.

Published 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.10242
PMID: 12874853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nutr Hosp. 2003 May-Jun;18(3):109-37.

[Nutrition and dietary recommendations for the elderly "Public Health" Working 
Group of the Spanish Nutrition Society].

[Article in Spanish]

Arbonés G(1), Carbajal A, Gonzalvo B, González-Gross M, Joyanes M, Marques-Lopes 
I, Martín ML, Martínez A, Montero P, Núñez C, Puigdueta I, Quer J, Rivero M, 
Roset MA, Sánchez-Muniz FJ, Vaquero MP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrición, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid.

With the increase of life expectancy, the desire to maintain good health, 
functionality and maximum quality of life at advanced ages, for which nutrition 
plays a critical role, is a priority for the elderly. Though genetic factors are 
a determinant of life expectancy, there are several extrinsic factors which have 
a great influence on the quality of life of the elderly. Diet and nutritional 
status have a great influence, especially in the prevention and treatment of 
several diseases, which affect this heterogeneous and vulnerable age group. The 
nutritional status and needs of elderly people are associated with age-related 
biological, psychological and often socio-economic changes. All of these changes 
can increase the risk of developing a number of age-related diseases. In 
developed countries the elderly are the most affected by malnutrition, either 
because of a deficiency (energy and several nutrients) or an excess, leading to 
obesity and related diseases. This review highlights the most important factors 
affecting nutritional status in elderly people and focus on the need to maintain 
adequate physical activity level and an optimal physic, psychic and social 
functional capacity. It discusses dietary reference intakes and guidelines to 
improve and/or maintain adequate nutritional status in older people in order to 
reduce susceptibility to some illness and disease.

PMID: 12875088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2003 Apr;68(4):416-20.

Very high risk of therapeutic failure with chloroquine for uncomplicated 
Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax malaria in Indonesian Papua.

Sumawinata IW(1), Bernadeta, Leksana B, Sutamihardja A, Purnomo, Subianto B, 
Sekartuti, Fryauff DJ, Baird JK.

Author information:
(1)United States Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, American Embassy, Jakarta, 
Indonesia.

Chloroquine remains the first-line therapy for uncomplicated malaria in 
Indonesia. Among a series of trials of chloroquine for malaria on this 
archipelago conducted since 1990, we now report the highest risk of therapeutic 
failure yet observed. A clinical trial of standard chloroquine therapy for 
uncomplicated malaria at Arso PIR V in northeastern Indonesian Papua was 
conducted during 1995. We enrolled 104 non-immune subjects infected with 
Plasmodium falciparum (n = 55), P. vivax (n = 29), or P. falciparum plus P. 
vivax (n = 20) and administered supervised standard chloroquine therapy (10 + 10 
+ 5 mg/kg at 24-hour intervals). The 28-day cumulative incidence of therapeutic 
failure was 95% for P. falciparum, 84% for P. vivax, and 100% for mixed 
infections. Only one subject each for P. falciparum and P. vivax remained free 
of parasites at day 28. All recurrent parasitemias occurred with whole blood 
levels of chloroquine plus desethylchloroquine exceeding 100 ng/ml. These 
findings document almost complete failure of chloroquine against P. falciparum 
or P. vivax near the northeastern coast of Indonesian Papua.

PMID: 12875290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Ann Epidemiol. 2003 Jul;13(6):424-30. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(02)00457-x.

Vegetable intake and long-term survival among middle-aged men in Italy.

Seccareccia F(1), Alberti-Fidanza A, Fidanza F, Farchi G, Freeman KM, Mariotti 
S, Menotti A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology e Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy. fulvia.seccareccia@iss.it

PURPOSE: To examine prospectively the relationship between vegetable consumption 
and long-term survival.
METHODS: In 1965, a total of 1536 Italian males from two Italian rural cohorts 
of the Seven Countries Study, aged 45-65 years, were examined. Information on 
lifestyle and food consumption collected at this visit, and total and 
cause-specific mortality data collected in 30 years of follow-up were analyzed 
for the present study.
RESULTS: During a period of 30 years, 1096 deaths occurred (308 from coronary 
heart disease, 325 from cancer, 158 from cerebrovascular disease and 305 from 
all other causes). The age-adjusted life expectancy for men consuming more than 
60 g/day of vegetables was nearly 2 years longer than for men consuming less 
than 20 g/day. This increase in survival was more striking in smokers than 
nonsmokers (2.1 vs. a 1 year gain). The association also held for both 
geographic cohorts, although the pattern of vegetable consumption was very 
different in the two villages.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest a positive association between vegetable intake 
and life expectancy. Vegetable intake may be especially protective for smokers 
although the biological explanation for such an effect is unclear.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(02)00457-x
PMID: 12875800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2003 Aug;29(6):548-56. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(03)00073-8.

Prognostic predictors of gastrointestinal stromal tumors: a multi-institutional 
analysis of 102 patients with definition of a prognostic index.

Kontogianni K(1), Demonakou M, Kavantzas N, Lazaris ACh, Lariou K, Vourlakou C, 
Davaris P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The National and Capodistrian University of Athens, 
School of Medicine, 75 M.Asias St., 115 25, Goudi, Greece. mkats@tee.gr

AIMS: The aim of this study is to identify prognostic factors influencing 
survival in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) and to 
identify a mathematical model that can predict lifetime expectation.
METHODS: One hundred and two patients with GISTs, were followed retrospectively 
for a median period of 32 months (from 1 to 82 months). Complete follow-up data 
were available in 72 cases. All tumors were surgically resected and examined by 
conventional light microscopy, immunohistochemistry and image analysis. The 
tumors' location, size, histologic characteristics, immunophenotype, 
proliferative activity index (assessed by proliferating cell nuclear antigen 
(PCNA) and Ki-67 immunoreactivity) and the apoptotic markers bcl-2 and bax, were 
considered as potential prognostic factors and were correlated with patient 
survival.
RESULTS: Tumor size >8 cm (p<0.03), presence of necrosis (p<0.02), number of 
mitoses >5/10 HPF (p<0.01), metastasis (p<0.001), and PCNA index >10% (p<0.004) 
were significant predictors of poor survival. Bcl-2 protein (p<0.0007) was a 
favorable prognostic indicator. If all tumors were treated as of uncertain 
malignant potential, the following mathematic model named GISTs Prognostic Index 
(GPI), could be formed by the linear regression technique: GPI exp=(49.6 
months-Status of metastasis x 22.9185-Size in cm x 0.6801+bcl-2 expression% x 
0.2569) (r(2)=0.67) (Prob>F=0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Tumors' size, necrosis, mitoses, metastasis and PCNA index are 
independent poor prognosticators, while bcl-2 protein is associated with 
favorable prognosis. An interesting equation for survival in patient with GISTs 
has been reported.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(03)00073-8
PMID: 12875864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Epileptic Disord. 2003 Jun;5(2):109-13.

Epileptic spasms in clusters without hypsarrhythmia in infancy.

Caraballo RH(1), Fejerman N, Bernardina BD, Ruggieri V, Cersósimo R, Medina C, 
Pociecha J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital de Ninos "Prof. Dr. Juan P. Garrahan", 
Buenos Aires, 2, Argentina. rcaraballo@janssen.com.ar

Spasms are defined as epileptic seizures characterized by brief axial 
contraction, in flexion, extension or mixed, symmetric or asymmetric, lasting 
from a fraction of a second to 1-2s, and are associated with a slow-wave 
transient or sharp and slow-wave complex, followed or not by voltage 
attenuation. Epileptic spasms usually appear in clusters and are age-dependent. 
This type of epileptic spasms associated with the particular EEG pattern, hypsar 
rhythmia, constitutes the basis for the diagnosis of West syndrome. The question 
is, how to nosologically define those patients who clearly present epileptic 
spasms in clusters without modified or typical hypsarrhythmia and with or 
without focal paroxysmal discharges on the interictal EEG. In the present 
series, the four patients show that epileptic spasms in clusters may occur in 
infancy, without hypsarrhythmia. They all presented the following features: 
normal neuropsychological development before onset of epileptic spasms, clusters 
of epileptic spasms, focal clinical and/or EEG abnormalities, normal 
neuroradiological imaging, neurometabolic investigations and karyotypes. In 
three of the patients, seizures were refractory to AEDs. Epileptic spasms in 
clusters without hypsarrhythmia that start in the first year of life represent a 
subtype of infantile spasms that generally are refractory to AEDs. It is not yet 
clear whether it should be considered as a variant of West syndrome or not 
[Published with Video sequence].

PMID: 12875954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nonlinear Dynamics Psychol Life Sci. 2003 Apr;7(2):115-37. doi: 
10.1023/a:1021460730922.

Mathematical phenomenology of neural stimulation by periodic fields.

Balduzzo M(1), Milone FF, Minelli TA, Pittaro-Cadore I, Turicchia L.

Author information:
(1)Universitá di Padova, Italy.

Neuron synchronization has been hypothesized as the basic mechanism leading 
neurological phenomena like low electroencephalographic rhythm dimension or high 
coherence. Cognitive processes, such as associative memory, can also be 
explained in terms of neuron synchronization. Inspired by the analysis of an 
experiment on cortex periodic photostimulation, in resonance conditions, a 
simple network of integrate and fire (i and f) neurons, has been used to 
simulate cognitive perturbations by oscillatory and pulsate stimulation of the 
central nervous system (CNS). In view of realistic simulations of transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (TMS) phenomena, a discrete extension of the FitzHug-Nagumo 
nervous fiber model, endowed with regenerative nodes, has been developed too.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021460730922
PMID: 12876437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Aug 5;100(16):9637-42. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1530303100. Epub 2003 Jul 23.

Rethinking the evolutionary theory of aging: transfers, not births, shape 
senescence in social species.

Lee RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, 2232 Piedmont Avenue, 
Berkeley, CA 94720-2120, USA. rlee@demog.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Aug 5;100(16):9114-5.

The classic evolutionary theory of aging explains why mortality rises with age: 
as individuals grow older, less lifetime fertility remains, so continued 
survival contributes less to reproductive fitness. However, successful 
reproduction often involves intergenerational transfers as well as fertility. In 
the formal theory offered here, age-specific selective pressure on mortality 
depends on a weighted average of remaining fertility (the classic effect) and 
remaining intergenerational transfers to be made to others. For species at the 
optimal quantity-investment tradeoff for offspring, only the transfer effect 
shapes mortality, explaining postreproductive survival and why juvenile 
mortality declines with age. It also explains the evolution of lower fertility, 
longer life, and increased investments in offspring.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1530303100
PMCID: PMC170970
PMID: 12878733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Exp Brain Res. 2003 Sep;152(1):123-32. doi: 10.1007/s00221-003-1518-1. Epub
2003  Jul 17.

Hysteresis in corticospinal excitability during gradual muscle contraction and 
relaxation in humans.

Kimura T(1), Yamanaka K, Nozaki D, Nakazawa K, Miyoshi T, Akai M, Ohtsuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, 153-8902 Tokyo, Japan. 
cc07706@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Many studies have demonstrated that the firing behavior of single motor units 
varies in a nonlinear manner to the exerted torque during gradual muscle 
contraction and relaxation. However, it is unclear whether corticospinal 
excitability has such a hysteresis-like feature. In this study, we examined 
corticospinal excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during 
gradual muscle contraction and relaxation for torque regulation in elbow flexor 
muscles. Eight healthy male subjects performed two different isometric elbow 
flexion tasks, namely, sinusoidal and tonic torque exertion tasks. In the 
sinusoidal task, the subjects sinusoidally increased and decreased the isometric 
elbow flexion torque (range of 0-15% of maximum voluntary contraction) at three 
different frequencies (0.33, 0.17, and 0.08 Hz). For each ascending 
(contraction: CON) and descending (relaxation: REL) period of the exerted 
torque, a single TMS was applied at 5 phases. In the tonic task, the elbow 
flexion torque was tonically exerted at 7 levels in a similar range as that in 
the sinusoidal task. EMG activities were recorded from the agonists, the biceps 
brachii (BB) and brachioradialis (BRD) muscles, and an antagonist, the triceps 
brachii (TB) muscle. The results demonstrated that the EMG activities of both 
the agonists and antagonist were larger in the CON period than the REL period, 
even when the exerted torque was the same. However, there were no significant 
differences in EMG activation profiles among the different frequencies of 
contraction. In BB and BRD, the motor-evoked potential (MEP) elicited by the TMS 
was also greater in the CON period than in the REL period. This CON-REL 
difference of MEP amplitudes was still observed when corrections were made for 
the increased EMG activities; that is, the MEP amplitudes to the identical EMG 
activities were greater in the CON period than in the REL period, and this 
phenomenon was more pronounced at higher frequencies. In addition, the degree to 
which sinusoidal MEPs exceeded tonic MEPs in the CON period and were smaller 
than tonic MEPs in the REL period became more pronounced at higher frequencies. 
On the other hand, there were significant correlations between the BB and BRD 
MEP amplitudes and the rate of change of elbow flexion/extension torque. These 
results indicate that corticospinal excitability during muscle contraction and 
relaxation has a neural hysteresis to the muscle activity, i.e., spinal 
motoneuronal activity, according to the rate of change of the exerted torque, 
i.e., muscle tension. This suggests that corticospinal excitability modulation 
depends not only on concurrent spinal motoneuronal activity and muscle tension 
but also on the time-series pattern of their changes during muscle contraction 
and relaxation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-003-1518-1
PMID: 12879181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 2003 Apr;10(2):104-16. doi: 10.1053/jarr.2003.50015.

Disaster nephrology: medical perspective.

Atef-Zafarmand A(1), Fadem S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Wayne State University, 1359 Somerset, 
Grosse Point Park, MI 48230, USA.

Disaster medicine is an extension of emergency medicine involving mass 
casualties and use of the best available techniques in search and rescue. To 
achieve the best results extensive predisaster preparedness is mandatory. 
Earthquakes have caused the loss of more than 1 million lives in the 20th 
century. Evidence-based medicine confirms that these deaths were mostly 
preventable based on experience in developed countries. The key to success is 
implementing building codes and structural reinforcement. In earthquakes as well 
as in collapse of buildings in bomb blasts, loss of life is either because of 
the direct effect of trauma or to the metabolic consequences of rhabdomyolysis 
and complications of its management. Hyperkalemia and infection are the 
commonest causes of death in victims who survive the direct effect of trauma. 
Acute renal failure, a grave complication of rhabdomyolysis, is mostly 
preventable by timely rehydration and bicarbonate therapy. Mannitol therapy can 
be very efficient in reducing the severity of muscle damage and its sequelae. 
Fasciotomy can be limb saving if it is done in the early hours, although a firm 
guideline is still lacking. Although each country is responsible for improving 
the structure of buildings and organizing an efficient disaster response, 
national and international organizations in developed countries should give high 
priority to communicating with developing countries to encourage their 
preparedness.

Copyright 2003 by the National Kidney Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/jarr.2003.50015
PMID: 12879371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Anaesth Intensive Care. 2003 Jun;31(3):294-9. doi:
10.1177/0310057X0303100310.

Critical illness and its impact on the Aboriginal people of the top end of the 
Northern Territory, Australia.

Stephens D(1).

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Royal Darwin Hospital, Darwin, Rocklands Drive, Tiwi, 
N.T. 0810.

The Royal Darwin Hospital (RDH) services a relatively large and geographically 
remote Aboriginal population who account for 45% of intensive care unit 
admissions. Critical illness in the Aboriginal population is different from the 
non-Aboriginal population of the "Top End" of the Northern Territory. The 
critically ill Aboriginal patient is younger, has more chronic health problems 
and a higher severity of illness at presentation. The city and the hospital 
environment are foreign to many Aboriginal patients retrieved from remote 
communities and this adds to the stress of the critical illness. English is a 
second, third or fourth language for many Aboriginal people from remote 
communities and strategies must be put in place to ensure informed consent and 
effective communication are achieved. Despite the increased severity of illness 
and complexity, the Royal Darwin Hospital ICU achieves the same survival rates 
for both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients.

DOI: 10.1177/0310057X0303100310
PMID: 12879676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Physiother Res Int. 2003;8(2):83-92. doi: 10.1002/pri.275.

Knee pain in the ACL-deficient osteoarthritic knee and its relationship to 
quality of life.

Hartwick M(1), Meeuwisse W, Vandertuin J, Maitland M.

Author information:
(1)University of Calgary, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Pain during activities of daily living is a common 
presenting complaint of individuals with knee osteoarthritis and anterior 
cruciate ligament injury. Knee pain is also associated with a decrease in 
quality of life for people with osteoarthritis. The purpose of the present study 
was to examine the dose-response relationship between knee joint forces and 
painful symptoms, and whether the acute symptoms, were associated with 
individuals' quality of life.
METHOD: This was a cross-sectional cohort correlation study. Seventeen 
individuals with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)-deficient knees diagnosed with 
ipsilateral knee osteoarthritis completed the ACL quality of life questionnaire 
(ACL-QOL). The subjects also rated pain associated with each of five incremental 
isometric knee extension tests, proportional to their body weight. Analysis of 
variance was used to assess the association between pain and normalized torque. 
Linear regression was used to assess the correlation between the ACL-QOL score 
and the total pain experienced during the graded test.
RESULTS: A strong relationship was found between the level of perceived knee 
pain and the amount of isometric torque produced (Pearson's r = 0.98; p < 
0.001). There was a statistically significant relationship between pain during 
the graded isometric test and the ACL-QOL (Pearson's r = -0.56; p = 0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: Since knee joint compression is a function of active isometric knee 
extension torque, increased painful symptoms were associated with increased 
compression forces at the knee joint for these subjects. The relationship 
between pain provocation and disease-specific quality of life provides evidence 
for the proposed joint provocation test for this subject population. Weakness 
caused by osteoathritis (OA) may, in part, be a negative conditioning response 
that would need to be overcome in rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1002/pri.275
PMID: 12879730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Crisis. 2003;24(2):56-67. doi: 10.1027//0227-5910.24.2.56.

Age patterns of suicide: identification and characterization of European 
clusters and trends.

da Veiga FA(1), Saraiva CB.

Author information:
(1)Suicide Research and Prevention Unit, Psychiatric Clinic, Coimbra University 
Hospitals, Portugal. fmaveiga@ci.uc.pt

Relatively few studies have addressed age patterns of suicide using specifically 
designed and systematized approaches. Our main objective was to identify and 
characterize age patterns of suicide in Europe, both on cross-sectional and 
longitudinal perspectives, based on data comprising the two last decades of the 
20th century. A second objective was to determine whether some analytical 
methods could be useful as complementary approaches to the traditional 
examination of age-specific rate curves. We identified and characterized four 
patterns: upward-sloping, convex, downward-sloping, and uniform. The first three 
reproduce patterns previously described, though we propose some modifications to 
the respective classification criteria. Longitudinally, pattern stability was 
found for most countries, but some notable exceptions were detected. From the 
computation of multiple-decrement life tables by European country, period, and 
gender, we derived cumulative distributions of age at death for suicide. The 
