results indicate that this methodology is a useful tool, not only for describing 
and summarizing information, but, more importantly, for providing a better 
understanding of intrinsic features and complexities of the patterns. Finally, 
we discuss practical implications of the study in the context of previous 
theories linking age patterns of suicide to sociological and economic 
dimensions, and we raise a few questions and hypotheses to be addressed in 
future research.

DOI: 10.1027//0227-5910.24.2.56
PMID: 12880223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Transfus Med. 2003 Aug;13(4):189-95. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-3148.2003.00441.x.

Operational feasibility of routine bacterial monitoring of platelets.

Macauley A(1), Chandrasekar A, Geddis G, Morris KG, McClelland WM.

Author information:
(1)Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion Service, Belfast, Northern Ireland. 
amacauley@nibts.n-i.nhs.uk

Bacterial contamination of platelets poses the greatest risk of mortality and 
morbidity to platelet transfusion recipients. Some European countries have 
introduced routine bacterial monitoring of platelets to reduce the risk of 
transmission of bacteria. A pilot study was carried out at the Northern Ireland 
Blood Transfusion Service, using the BacT/ALERT automated culture system, to 
assess the operational feasibility of routine bacterial monitoring of platelets. 
About 4885 platelet concentrates (PCs) were tested in a 1-year period. Of the 28 
(0.57%) initial reactive cultures, 13 (46%) were reproducible on repeat 
culturing. Of these, 10 were detected within 24 h of incubation either in 
aerobic or both aerobic and anaerobic culture bottles. A sample of time-expired 
units (423) that had initial negative culture results remained negative when 
retested on day 8. About 213 time-expired units were subjected to routine 
quality assessment and more than 85% were found to conform to quality standards 
specified in the UKBTS guidelines for platelet count (> or =240 x 10(9) per 
adult dose PC) and pH (6.4-7.4). There was a reduction in the platelet count 
because of the volume removed (15 mL) for sampling. Routine bacterial testing 
with day 2 sampling and a negative culture result after 24 h as a mandatory 
release criterion would improve product safety. Implementation of 100% testing 
would be operationally feasible but may require extension of the shelf life if 
unacceptable wastage is to be avoided.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3148.2003.00441.x
PMID: 12880389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Transfus Med Rev. 2003 Jul;17(3):194-208. doi:
10.1016/s0887-7963(03)00019-1.

Uses and sources of data on long-term survival after blood transfusion.

Vamvakas EC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
NY, USA. Stephen.Vamvakas@bloodservices.ca

Several public policy decisions in transfusion medicine require information on 
the long-term (> or =10-year) survival of transfused patients. This information 
is needed (1) to estimate the number of surviving transfusion recipients who 
have contracted a particular infection through transfusion, (2) to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of measures introduced to further improve the safety of the 
allogeneic blood supply, (3) to estimate the total anticipated number of 
transfusion-transmitted cases of disease when a novel transfusion-transmitted 
infection with a long incubation period emerges, and (4) determine the scope of 
any proposed lookback investigation in terms of the length of time that should 
be covered retrospectively by the lookback effort. Although the probabilities of 
survival of Olmsted County, MN, residents transfused in 1981 were often used 
previously when input data on long-term posttransfusion survival were needed in 
the United States, these data most likely do not reflect the survival of 
patients transfused in the 1990s. Recent data from Sweden, Northern England, and 
New York City suggest that the short-term (up to 5 years posttransfusion) 
probabilities of survival reported from Olmsted County may have to be reduced by 
up to 20% before they can be used for making public policy decisions in the 
future, and that probabilities of survival of 66%, 60%, and 47%, respectively, 
at 1, 2, and 5 years posttransfusion may reflect the life expectancy of subjects 
transfused in the 1990s. No empirical data on the 10-year probability of 
survival of such patients are currently available from population-based studies, 
but some data suggest that the 10-year survival of an unselected population 
transfused in 1988 to 1990 may be 40%. A population-based study that includes 
several US counties has to be undertaken to generate the information needed for 
public policy decisions in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-7963(03)00019-1
PMID: 12881780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. G Ital Nefrol. 2003 May-Jun;20(3):238-46.

[Credentialing for diagnostic and interventional nephrology].

[Article in Italian]

Giannattasio M(1), Zazzera P.

Author information:
(1)Struttura Complessa di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Azienda USL Bari 5, Ospedale 
Santa Maria degli Angeli, Putignano (BA). michele.giannattasio@libero.it

It is necessary to define the credentialing process that allows the nephrologist 
to achieve certification and accreditation in the following essential procedures 
of diagnostic and interventional nephrology: renal echography; renal and bone 
biopsies; the creation of vascular (arteriovenous fistula [FAV], grafts) or 
peritoneal access for permanent dialysis; the management and treatment of 
possible complications; and the implantation of central venous catheters for 
temporary or definitive hemodialysis.
BACKGROUND: The acquisition of credentials for the interventional nephrologist 
includes the completion of training programs, the identification of appraisal 
indices, certification, possible recertification, and accreditation. The 
specialist validation allows the nephrologist to act as a tutor and supply the 
credentials for the interventional procedures in nephrology. The use of 
echography has remarkably simplified the procedure of percutaneous renal biopsy, 
a technical diagnostic invasive technique, practiced exclusively by the 
nephrologist the ecography-guided technique has reduced the risks of greater 
complications to less than 0.5%. However, guidelines are lacking on the training 
required to accredit a nephrologist in this technique. The initial placement of 
a shunt, vascular or peritoneal, to carry out dialysis treatment is usually 
performed by the nephrologist, radiologist, or surgeon. However, the successful 
long-term management of the dialysis patient generally demands a 
multidisciplinary approach. The poor management of the dialysis shunt can 
contribute to reduced patient life expectancy and increased costs of care. 
Therefore, it is essential that those who perform such interventional procedures 
must be certified and accredited according to strict protocol guidelines. In 
Italy (as opposed to the United States) most peritoneal shunt placements are 
performed by the nephrologist. However, international scientific society 
guidelines on this procedure, where they exist, are generic, allowing for the 
adaptation of particular techniques by various nephrologic centers. The criteria 
for the acquisition of credentials in one particular procedure must be uniform, 
logical, consistent, and applicable, comprising of a recognition of the basic 
procedure and a course of appropriate practical training. The criteria for 
training and credentialing in diagnostic and interventional nephrology should 
encompass the following points: The establishment of guidelines for the 
performance of all procedures that ensures suitable and effective treatment, 
including during emergencies, and considering the hospital context in which the 
procedures are performed. The recognition that scientific society guidelines for 
one specialty or procedure may not be appropriate or applicable to credentialing 
in another specialty or procedure. The ability of guidelines to adapt to 
improvements in technique and new technologies. The stipulations of insurance 
coverage and legal counselling must be taken into consideration whenever 
accreditation criteria are developed.
CONCLUSIONS: An adequately certified and accredited background improves the 
quality of care, reduces costs and waiting list time, and reduces those 
complications that could increase the length of hospitalization.

PMID: 12881845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2003;37(3):31-8.

[Chronic psychoemotional stress and its effect on population health].

[Article in Russian]

Shafirkin AV.

Consideration is given to the quantitative characteristics of health effects of 
the chronic psychoemotional stress associated with the economic and social 
status of one's family, and profession. The study was performed with the use of 
a model of decline in the human body compensatory reserve on a background of 
single or combined stresses. On a population scale, this can be seen in a 
regular growth of the death coefficient in various age groups and an increase of 
the mean death coefficient in regional and whole country populations. Analyzed 
were the psychoemotional and health implications of the level of per capita 
income in a family with full employment of able to work members, unemployment, 
some natural disasters, and type of occupation. Ageing and death coefficient 
trends in several regions of the country were correlated on a basis of the 
analysis of single and combined chronic effects of radiation, chemical 
pollution, altered economic and social status, and type of occupation. The 
author speculates on changes in morbidity, total risk of death and possible 
reduction of the life expectancy caused by the multitude of the above-mentioned 
negative factors.

PMID: 12882035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J South Orthop Assoc. 2003 Summer;12(2):79-82.

Cemented total hip arthroplasty: still relevant in the new millennium?

Iorio R(1), Kobayashi S.

Author information:
(1)Lahey Clinic Medical Center, Burlington, MA 01805, USA.

Total hip arthroplasty can be performed successfully using cement or cementless 
technology. Cemented femoral stems can achieve enduring long-term suvivorship as 
long as meticulous surgical technique is utilized and patient selection is 
appropriate. Cemented acetabular components should only be utilized in patients 
with less than 10 years of remaining life expectancy. Critical risk factors for 
cemented total hip arthroplasty include atrophic osteoarthrtis on the acetabular 
side and unfavorable femoral geometry for the femoral stem such as "the 
stove-pipe" canal. Rapid polyethylene wear and osteolysis are rarely seen in 
contemporary cemented total hip arthroplasty performed with a smooth, tapered, 
collarless femoral stem with a highly polished head and a well-designed 
acetabular component.

PMID: 12882245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Biotechnol Lett. 2003 Mar;25(6):503-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1022666310393.

Enhancement of sulfate reduction activity using granular sludge in anaerobic 
treatment of acid mine drainage.

La HJ(1), Kim KH, Quan ZX, Cho YG, Lee ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Taejon 305-701, Korea.

Three laboratory-scale, upflow anaerobic reactors were operated for about 250 d 
to determine the effect of activated granular sludge with high density of 
sulfate reducing bacteria in the treatment of artificial acid mine drainage. 
Sulfate reducing bacteria in the granular sludge taken from the upflow anaerobic 
sludge blanket reactor were 1-2 x 10(6) c.f.u. g(-1), which is at least 10 times 
higher than that of organic substrates such as cow manure and oak compost. The 
reactors with granular sludge effectively removed over 99% of heavy metals, such 
as Fe, Al, Cu, and Cd during the experiment. This result suggests a feasibility 
of the application of granular sludge as a source of sulfate reducing bacteria 
for the treatment of acid mine drainage.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022666310393
PMID: 12882279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Aging Cell. 2003 Apr;2(2):123-30. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00044.x.

Testing an 'aging gene' in long-lived drosophila strains: increased longevity 
depends on sex and genetic background.

Spencer CC(1), Howell CE, Wright AR, Promislow DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, The University of Georgia, University of Georgia, 
Life Sciences Building, Athens, GA 30602, USA. spencer@uga.edu

Molecular advances of the past decade have led to the discovery of a myriad of 
'aging genes' (methuselah, Indy, InR, Chico, superoxide dismutase) that extend 
Drosophila lifespan by up to 85%. Despite this life extension, these mutants are 
no longer lived than at least some recently wild-caught strains. Typically, 
long-lived mutants are identified in relatively short-lived genetic backgrounds, 
and their effects are rarely tested in genetic backgrounds other than the one in 
which they were isolated or derived. However, the mutant's high-longevity 
phenotype may be dependent on interactions with alleles that are common in 
short-lived laboratory strains. Here we set out to determine whether one 
particular mutant could extend lifespan in long-lived genetic backgrounds in the 
fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. We measured longevity and resistance to 
thermal stress in flies that were transgenically altered to overexpress human 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the motorneurones in each of 10 genotypes. Each 
genotype carried the genetic background from a different naturally long-lived 
wild-caught Drosophila strain. While SOD increased lifespan on average, the 
effect was genotype- and sex-specific. Our results indicate that naturally 
segregating genes interact epistatically with the aging gene superoxide 
dismutase to modify its ability to extend longevity. This study points to the 
need to identify mutants that increase longevity not only in the lab strain of 
origin but also in naturally long-lived genetic backgrounds.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00044.x
PMCID: PMC3991309
PMID: 12882325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Aging Cell. 2003 Feb;2(1):47-57. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00030.x.

Differential regulation of Shc adaptor proteins in skeletal muscle, spinal cord 
and forebrain of aged rats with sensorimotor impairment.

Jiang X(1), Edstrom E, Altun M, Ulfhake B.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Neurogerontology, Department of Neuroscience, Retzius 
Laboratory, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

The Shc family of proteins participates in mitogenic and survival signalling 
through binding to receptor tyrosine kinases. We report here on the expression 
of Shc in forebrain, spinal cord and hind limb muscles from 30-month-old rats 
with different degrees of sensorimotor impairment. ShcA (mRNA and protein) is 
up-regulated in skeletal muscles and spinal cord of aged rats, and this change 
relates to biological age, i.e. degree of behavioural incapacitation, rather 
than to chronological age. Western blot and RT-PCR revealed that the increase in 
ShcA selectively affected the p46 isoform in the spinal cord, whereas in muscle 
tissue a robust increase of p66(ShcA) was also evident. Furthermore, in parallel 
with the up-regulation of ShcA, an increase of p75(NTR) mRNA in the aged animals 
was observed. ShcB mRNA showed a tendency for down-regulation in both spinal 
cord and skeletal muscles, whereas the expression of ShcC was unaltered. Our 
data show that the regulation of Shc mRNAs in senescence is region as well as 
isoform specific. The regulatory changes may reflect changes in 
mitogenic/survival signalling induced by age-related cell and tissue damage. The 
coup-regulation of p66(ShcA) and p75(NTR) is interesting since both molecules 
have been associated with apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00030.x
PMID: 12882334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Aging Cell. 2002 Dec;1(2):140-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00019.x.

Life history response of Mediterranean fruit flies to dietary restriction.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Harshman L, Zhang Y, Müller HG, Partridge L, Wang JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

The purpose of this study was to investigate medfly longevity and reproduction 
across a broad spectrum of diet restriction using a protocol similar to those 
applied in most rodent studies. Age-specific reproduction and age of death were 
monitored for 1200 adult males and 1200 females, each individually maintained on 
one of 12 diets from ad libitum to 30% of ad libitum. Diet was provided in a 
fixed volume of solution that was fully consumed each day, ensuring control of 
total nutrient consumption for every fly. Contrary to expectation and 
precedence, increased longevity was not observed at any level of diet 
restriction. Among females, reproduction continued across all diet levels 
despite the cost in terms of increased mortality. Among males, life expectancy 
exceeded that of females at most diet levels. However, in both sexes, mortality 
increased more sharply and the pattern of survival changed abruptly once the 
diet level fell to 50% of ad libitum or below, even though the energetic demands 
of egg production has no obvious counterpart in males. We believe that a more 
complete picture of the life table response to dietary restriction will emerge 
when studies are conducted on a wider range of species and include both sexes, 
more levels of diet, and the opportunity for mating and reproduction.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00019.x
PMID: 12882344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Aging Cell. 2002 Oct;1(1):1-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00003.x.

Interpreting interactions between treatments that slow aging.

Gems D(1), Pletcher S, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 
6BT, UK. david.gems@ucl.ac.uk

A major challenge in current research into aging using model organisms is to 
establish whether different treatments resulting in slowed aging involve common 
or distinct mechanisms. Such treatments include gene mutation, dietary 
restriction (DR), and manipulation of reproduction, gonadal signals and 
temperature. The principal method used to determine whether these treatments act 
through common mechanisms is to compare the magnitude of the effect on aging of 
each treatment separately with that when two are applied simultaneously. In this 
discussion we identify five types of methodological shortcomings that have 
marred such studies. These are (1) submaximal lifespan-extension by individual 
treatments, e.g. as a result of the use of hypomorphic rather than null alleles; 
(2) effects of a single treatment on survival through more than one mechanism, 
e.g. pleiotropic effects of lifespan mutants; (3) the difficulty of interpreting 
the magnitude of increases in lifespan in double treatments, and failure to 
measure and model age-specific mortality rates; (4) the non-specific effects of 
life extension suppressors; and (5) the possible occurrence of artefactual 
mutant interactions. When considered in the light of these problems, the 
conclusions of a number of recent lifespan interaction studies appear 
questionable. We suggest six rules for avoiding the pitfalls that can beset 
interaction studies.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00003.x
PMID: 12882347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Aging Cell. 2002 Oct;1(1):75-80. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00010.x.

The demography of slow aging in male and female Drosophila mutant for the 
insulin-receptor substrate homologue chico.

Tu MP(1), Epstein D, Tatar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island, USA.

Hypomorphic mutants affecting the Drosophila insulin/IGF signal pathway are 
reported to increase longevity in females but not in males. To understand this 
sex-difference, we conducted a large-scale demographic study with three new 
isogenic strains of alleles at chico, the insulin-receptor substrate homologue. 
We verify that female dwarf homozygotes (ch1/ch1) and normal-sized heterozygotes 
(ch1/+) are long-lived, as originally reported. We find for the first time that 
male heterozygotes are long-lived relative to wildtype, by about 50%. The life 
span of male ch1/ch1 is similar to that of wildtype but these dwarf males age at 
a slow demographic rate. The levels of demographic frailty and of 
age-independent mortality are elevated in ch1/ch1 males, counteracting the 
effect of slow aging upon life expectancy. Mortality deceleration occurs amongst 
the oldest-old wildtype adults, as seen in many organisms. Remarkably, in 
similarly sized cohorts of male and female ch1/ch1 and of male ch1/+ mortality 
deceleration is absent. Mortality deceleration is a phenotype of chico.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2002.00010.x
PMID: 12882356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Genes Brain Behav. 2002 Nov;1(4):204-13. doi:
10.1034/j.1601-183x.2002.10402.x.

Aged endothelial nitric oxide synthase knockout mice exhibit higher mortality 
concomitant with impaired open-field habituation and alterations in forebrain 
neurotransmitter levels.

Dere E(1), De Souza Silva MA, Topic B, Fiorillo C, Li JS, Sadile AG, Frisch C, 
Huston JP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology, Center for Biological and Medical 
Research, University of Düsseldorf D-40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.

Erratum in
    Genes Brain Behav. 2003 Feb;2(1):64.

Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) has been implicated in various brain 
and peripheral pathologies such as renal failure, heart failure or stroke. 
Consequently, the mortality rate of aged eNOS knockout mice (eNOS-/-) was higher 
than that of age-matched (18-22 months old) controls. Only seven of the original 
14 eNOS-/- animals that participated in the study reached the age of 18 months 
or older, whereas no control mice died during this life span. In order to assess 
the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of chronic eNOS deficiency we 
examined whether the surviving aged eNOS-/- mice showed changes in terms of 
motor, emotional, exploratory and neurochemical parameters. Aged eNOS-/- mice 
showed reduced exploratory activity in the open-field with no habituation 
observable neither within sessions nor after repeated exposures. Pole test 
performance of eNOS-/- mice was comparable to controls. In the elevated 
plus-maze eNOS-/- mice did not differ from controls in terms of time spent in 
and entries into arms, but showed less locomotion on the open arms. The most 
prominent neurochemical alterations in the forebrains of aged eNOS-/- mice were: 
(a) increased acetylcholine levels in the neostriatum; (b) decreased 
noradrenaline concentrations in the ventral striatum; and (c) lower serotonin 
levels in the frontal cortex and ventral striatum. The present findings suggest 
that mice which survived chronic eNOS-deficiency into old age, show some 
behavioral and neurochemical phenotypes distinct from adult eNOS-/- mice.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1601-183x.2002.10402.x
PMID: 12882365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Aging Cell. 2003 Jun;2(3):185-90. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00049.x.

Age of ovary determines remaining life expectancy in old ovariectomized mice.

Cargill SL(1), Carey JR, Müller HG, Anderson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

We investigated the capacity of young ovaries, transplanted into old 
ovariectomized CBA mice, to improve remaining life expectancy of the hosts. 
Donor females were sexually mature 2-month-olds; recipients were prepubertally 
ovariectomized at 3 weeks and received transplants at 5, 8 or 11 months of age. 
Relative to ovariectomized control females, life expectancy at 11 months was 
increased by 60% in 11-month recipient females and by 40% relative to intact 
control females. Only 20% of the 11-month transplant females died in the 300-day 
period following ovarian transplantation, whereas nearly 65% of the 
ovariectomized control females died during this same period. The 11-month-old 
recipient females resumed oestrus and continued to cycle up to several months 
beyond the age of control female reproductive senescence. Across the three 
recipient age groups, transplantation of young ovaries increased life expectancy 
in proportion to the relative youth of the ovary. Our results relate to recent 
findings on the gonadal input upon aging in Caenorhabditis elegans and may 
suggest how the mammalian gonad, including that of humans, could regulate aging 
and determine longevity.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00049.x
PMCID: PMC2386250
PMID: 12882411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Vet Hum Toxicol. 2003 Aug;45(4):219-21.

Toxic potential of oleander derived compost and vegetables grown with oleander 
soil amendments.

Downer J(1), Craigmill A, Holstege D.

Author information:
(1)University of California Cooperative Extension, 669 County Square Drive, 
Ventura, CA 93023, USA.

California recycles 50% of previously disposed trash. Increased use of 
yardwastes and composts has raised concern about toxic materials in these 
products. Oleander is a toxic shrub common to CA landscapes and is frequently 
clipped and disposed of in greenwaste containers, resulting in concerns about 
the toxicity of oleander-contaminated yardwastes and composts from these wastes. 
Information about breakdown of oleandrin (one of the glycoside toxicants of 
oleander) during composting or the ability of plants to absorb this molecule has 
not been reported. In separate experiments, we documented the apparent 
first-order disappearance of oleandrin from composts of pure oleander, with a 
disappearance half-life of 15 d. Within 50 d, 90% of the oleandrin was removed 
during aerobic composting in a turned pile. In an amendment study with fresh 
uncomposted oleander, no oleandrin was detected in tomato and zuchinni fruit, 
snap beans, carrot tubers, or green lettuce. Oleandrin was found in red leaf 
lettuce growing in soils mulched with oleander, but oleandrin concentrations 
were near the detection limit of the assay. Soil from oleander mulched and 
amended plots contained low levels of oleandrin at the time of harvest.

PMID: 12882497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Support Care Cancer. 2003 Nov;11(11):728-34. doi: 10.1007/s00520-003-0502-4.
 Epub 2003 Jul 22.

Economic evaluation of antiaromatase agents in the second-line treatment of 
metastatic breast cancer.

Verma S(1), Rocchi A.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Regional Cancer Centre, 503 Smyth Road, K1H 1C4, Ottawa, Canada.

GOALS OF WORK: An economic evaluation was conducted comparing anastrozole, 
exemestane, letrozole and megestrol for the second-line treatment of 
postmenopausal patients with hormone-sensitive metastatic breast cancer who had 
failed tamoxifen.
METHODS: An economic model was developed based on data from phase III 
megestrol-controlled clinical trials of antiaromatase agents (AA) and estimates 
of resource utilization from both Statistic Canada's Population Health Model for 
breast cancer and expert opinion.
MAIN RESULTS: In megestrol-controlled trials, anastrozole and exemestane 
equivalently improved survival compared to megestrol, while letrozole did not. 
Compared to megestrol, exemestane and anastrozole both cost Canadian $9000 per 
life-year gained, and letrozole saved Canadian $300 annually, with no life-year 
gain. Cost-effectiveness results were robust under sensitivity analysis testing. 
However, the model was dependent on any difference between AAs with respect to 
survival benefit and drug acquisition price.
CONCLUSION: Based on available data and this cost-effectiveness analysis, 
exemestane and anastrozole are appropriate choices for second-line hormonal 
treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-003-0502-4
PMID: 12883965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. US News World Rep. 2003 Jul 21;135(2):16-20.

In death's shadow.

Whitelaw K.

PMID: 12884730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Hum Gene Ther. 2003 Jul 20;14(11):1065-77. doi: 10.1089/104303403322124783.

Antiangiogenic cancer therapy with microencapsulated cells.

Cirone P(1), Bourgeois JM, Chang PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario L8N 3Z5, 
Canada.

Inhibition of angiogenesis has led to tumor suppression in several cancer 
models. Although administering purified recombinant antiangiogenic product is 
effective, alternative approaches through genetic manipulation may be more 
cost-effective. We propose to implant nonautologous recombinant cells secreting 
angiostatin for systemic delivery of angiostatin in cancer treatment. These 
cells are protected from graft rejection in alginate microcapsules to function 
as "micro-organs" to deliver angiostatin in vivo. This approach was tested by 
implanting encapsulated mouse myoblast C2C12 cells genetically modified to 
secrete angiostatin into mice bearing solid tumor. Angiostatin was detected in 
sera of the treated mice. Efficacy was demonstrated by suppression of palpable 
tumor growth and improved survival. At autopsy, angiostatin localized to 
residual tumors and high levels of angiostatic activity were detected in tumor 
extracts. Tumor tissues showed increased apoptosis and necrosis compared with 
those from untreated or mock-treated mice. Immunohistochemical staining against 
von Willebrand factor, an endothelial cell marker, showed that within tumors 
from the treated mice, the neovasculature was poorly defined by endothelial 
cells, many of which were undergoing apoptosis. However, the tumors eventually 
developed neovasculature independent of endothelial cells. Such vascular mimicry 
would account for the lack of long-term efficacy despite persistent angiostatin 
delivery. In conclusion, implantation with nonautologous microencapsulated cells 
is feasible for systemic delivery of angiostatin, resulting in localization of 
angiostatin to tumors and targeted apoptosis of the endothelial cells. Clinical 
efficacy was demonstrated by suppression of tumor growth and extension of life 
span. Although the potential of this cell-based approach for 
angiostatin-mediated cancer therapy is confirmed, long-term efficacy must take 
into account the possible escape by some tumors from angiogenesis inhibition.

DOI: 10.1089/104303403322124783
PMID: 12885346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Radiother Oncol. 2003 Jul;68(1):1-14. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(03)00117-8.

Radiotherapy of small intracranial tumours with different advanced techniques 
using photon and proton beams: a treatment planning study.

Bolsi A(1), Fogliata A, Cozzi L.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland, Medical Physics, Bellinzona, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The potential benefits and limitations of five different 
radiation techniques, 3D conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT), stereotactic arc 
therapy (SRS/T), intensity modulated radiotherapy with photons (IMRT), and 
radiotherapy with protons (spot scanning (SSp) or passive scattering (PSp)), 
have been assessed using comparative treatment planning methods in a cohort of 
patients presenting with 'benign' brain tumours.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Plans for five acoustic neurinomas, five meningiomas, and 
two pituitary adenomas were computed for all modalities using computed 
tomography (CT) scans to delineate planning target volume and organs at risk 
(OARs) and to predict dose distributions. Dose-volume histograms were used for 
physical and simple biological evaluation.
RESULTS: Proton techniques were shown to be superior to all photon approaches 
for the irradiation of small brain lesions in terms of target dose uniformity 
and conformity and in terms of sparing OARs. No major differences were observed 
between the results of the photon techniques, which were generally good for 
target coverage. Minimum target doses ranged from 81% with SRS/T to 93% with 
IMRT. The volume receiving more than 95% of the dose ranged from 95% (SRS/T) to 
99% (PSp). No clear patterns of coverage dependence upon target shape were 
observed. Maximum brain stem irradiation ranged from 60% with IMRT to 26% with 
protons and the conformity index from 4.4 with IMRT to 2.5 with protons. 
Considering the rather long life expectancy of the patients suffering from 
meningiomas, neurinomas, and pituitary adenomas, the most important aspect to be 
considered, other than target coverage, is toxicity and in the long term, the 
possibility of secondary tumour induction. Considering these aspects, proton 
irradiation should be the irradiation technique of choice, when available. If 
not, IMRT, or even 3DCRT, techniques can provide an acceptable compromise, even 
without recurring to unconventional treatments like SRS/T, which require complex 
installations and high machine occupancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(03)00117-8
PMID: 12885446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Lancet. 2003 Jul 19;362(9379):245. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13919-0.

Mortality reduction by breast-cancer screening.

Bonneux L.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2003 Apr 26;361(9367):1411-7.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13919-0
PMID: 12885491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Arch Intern Med. 2003 Jul 28;163(14):1637-41. doi:
10.1001/archinte.163.14.1637.

What is the price of life and why doesn't it increase at the rate of inflation?

Ubel PA(1), Hirth RA, Chernew ME, Fendrick AM.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Health Systems 300 N Ingalls, Room 7C27 Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-0429, USA. paubel@umich.edu

Comment on
    JAMA. 2000 Feb 16;283(7):889-96.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.163.14.1637
PMID: 12885677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. An Sist Sanit Navar. 2000 May-Aug;23(2):257-63. doi: 10.23938/ASSN.0774.

[Outbreak of multiresistant tuberculosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Perfecto B(1), Sánchez JR, González AI, López I, Dorronsoro I.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Microbiología, Hospital de Navarra, 31008 Pamplona.

BASIS: Six cases of multiresistant tuberculosis diagnosed in the Hospital of 
Navarra in 1996 were studied.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sensitivity tests were carried out using the BACTEC 460TB 
system against four main anti-tuberculosis medicines: Isoniazid, Streptomycin, 
Rifampizin and Ethambutol. "Fingerprinting" techniques by means of RFLP with IS 
6110 were used in the epidemiological study.
RESULTS: Four of the patients were also infected with HIV. All of them had a 
fatal short-term prognosis. These four showed resistance to the drugs under 
study; in three resistance was primary, and secondary in the fourth. The 
molecular study showed that three HIV+ patients had identical patterns of 
restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Two were brothers and 
nosocomial infection was demonstrated in the third. On the other hand, the RPLF 
pattern of these patients showed great similarity to that of one of the HIV- 
patients, which suggests a clone origin of the strains, no other epidemiological 
relationship being found. The RPLF pattern of the other HIV+ patient was 
identical to that of another of his strains, isolated 14 months before, with the 
first strain sensitive. The other two patients were HIV- women, and they evolved 
favourably. In one, who was diabetic, a multiresistant tuberculosis had been 
diagnosed 7 years before, remaining asymptomatic up until the present. The other 
involved a secondary resistance due to deficient treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The appearance of multiresistant tuberculosis is a very serious 
problem amongst HIV+ patients, especially at a time when their life expectancy 
has improved considerably due to the new therapies. In HIV- patients, 
multiresistant tuberculosis has a better prognosis. Typification by means of 
restriction fragment length polymorphism is very useful in clarifying the origin 
of the cases.

DOI: 10.23938/ASSN.0774
PMID: 12886310


218. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 23;165(26):2635.

[How to measure public health in Denmark?].

[Article in Danish]

Bjørner JB.

Comment on
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 23;165(26):2637-41.

PMID: 12886543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 23;165(26):2637-41.

[More recent measures for a nation's state of health--a review].

[Article in Danish]

Moesgaard Iburg K(1), Kamper-Jørgensen F.

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, Svanemøllevej 25, DK-2100 København. 
kmi@dike.dk

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 23;165(26):2635.

The objective of this article was to give a conceptual survey of old and new 
measures for a nation's state of health with special focus on new measures 
seeking to combine mortality with morbidity, functional, and quality of life 
dimensions. Internationally, the development has given rise to two different 
movements. One (represented by Denmark and the rest of the EU) aims to develop a 
large number of standardized indicators, whereas the other (represented by the 
WHO and the World Bank) builds on the idea that it must be possible to combine 
the many indicators into a single summary measure for a nation's state of 
health. In the summary measures, distinction is made between health expectancy 
and health gap measures. Attention is given to reviewing DALY 
(disability-adjusted life years), disability weighting, and the social value 
choices applied in WHO's World Health Report 2000.

PMID: 12886544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Jun 30;165(27):2755-6.

[Increased number of the elderly, but fewer with functional disabilities].

[Article in Danish]

Pedersen KD(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk Afdeling B, Amtssygehuset i Glostrup.

PMID: 12886570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Adv Nurse Pract. 2003 Jul;11(7):18; author reply 18.

Smokeless tobacco as a smoking cessation strategy.

Rodu B.

Comment on
    Adv Nurse Pract. 2003 Apr;11(4):29-30, 34, 90.

PMID: 12886730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Curr Opin Genet Dev. 2003 Aug;13(4):358-64. doi:
10.1016/s0959-437x(03)00087-x.

Chemotactic cell movement during development.

Dormann D(1), Weijer CJ.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Biocentre, School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, DD1 
5EH, Dundee, UK.

Chemotaxis is an important mechanism controlling cell migration over either 
short or long distances during different developmental processes. Small rapid 
diffusing chemo-attractants are detected through serpentine, G protein coupled 
receptors through graded activation of receptors along the length of the cell. 
Internal amplification results in polarisation of the actin and myosin 
cytoskeletal dynamics along the gradient and directed movement. The dynamics of 
these processes can now be studied in individual cells in developing organisms. 
Slow diffusing chemo-attractants such as growth factors, providing short-range 
guidance information, often signal through tyrosine kinase receptors. Detection 
of these signals may involve the active extension of very long cellular process 
up growth factor gradients, followed by translocation of the cell in the 
direction of the gradient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-437x(03)00087-x
PMID: 12888008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Biomed Pharmacother. 2003 Jul-Aug;57(5-6):203-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0753-3322(03)00048-9.

The anti-ageing effects of caloric restriction may involve stimulation of 
macroautophagy and lysosomal degradation, and can be intensified 
pharmacologically.

Bergamini E(1), Cavallini G, Donati A, Gori Z.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Ricerca di Biologia e Patologia dell'Invecchiamento, University of 
Pisa, Scuola Medica, Via Roma 55, 56126 Pisa, Italy. ebergami@ipg.med.unipi.it

Caloric restriction (CR) and a reduced growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth 
factor (IGF-1) axis are associated with an extension of lifespan across taxa. 
Evidence is reviewed showing that CR and reduced insulin of GH-IGF-1 axis may 
exhibit their effects at least partly by their common stimulatory action on 
autophagy, the cell repair mechanism responsible for the housekeeping of cell 
membranes and organelles including the free radical generators peroxisomes and 
mitochondria. It is shown that the life-long weekly administration of an 
anti-lipolytic drug may decrease glucose and insulin levels and stimulate 
autophagy and intensify anti-ageing effects of submaximal CR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0753-3322(03)00048-9
PMID: 12888255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Trends Cell Biol. 2003 Aug;13(8):426-34. doi: 10.1016/s0962-8924(03)00146-6.

Delivering the message: epimorphin and mammary epithelial morphogenesis.

Radisky DC(1), Hirai Y, Bissell MJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 
94720, USA.

The mammary gland consists of a highly branched tubular epithelium surrounded by 
a complex mesenchymal stroma. Epimorphin is an extracellular protein that is 
expressed by mammary mesenchymal cells that directs epithelial morphogenesis. 
Depending upon the context of presentation--polar versus apolar--epimorphin can 
selectively direct two key processes of tubulogenesis: branching morphogenesis 
(processes involved in tubule initiation and extension) and luminal 
morphogenesis (required for enlargement of tubule caliber). Here, we outline the 
fundamentals of mammary gland development and describe the function of 
epimorphin in these processes. We conclude with a review of recent studies that 
suggest similar morphogenic roles for epimorphin in other glandular organs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0962-8924(03)00146-6
PMCID: PMC2933193
PMID: 12888295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Med Hypotheses. 2003 Aug;61(2):200-5. doi: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00028-8.

Generalised cancer, a function of the relative brainsize.

Lundsgaard E(1).

Author information:
(1)Tolvkarlevej, Hilleroed, Denmark. ebbe-lone@tanke.dk

The prevalence of spontaneous, generalised malignant tumours in 10 mammalian 
species was compared with their relative brain sizes (RBS), and the outcome, 
supported by the statistical significance, argues for the psyche as a 
contributing factor in cancer. The variation in life spans and metabolism of the 
species was subsequently equalised and applied to the statistics. The mediators 
are deductively suggested to be the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and its 
neurotransmitter noradrenaline, which may exert a direct, lethal effect on 
tumours. The strain on the autonomous nervous system (ANS), dispersed throughout 
the brain, is assumed to be increasing with the increasing ratio of neurones 
belonging to 'receiving, processing and conscious areas' (RPCA), where the 
extension or density of ANS may be adapted to the dimensions of the body it 
supplies.Interference in neocortex and other parts of the brain, partly 
stress-induced, might cause dysfunction of ANS, which aggravates with a 
proportional increase of RBS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-9877(03)00028-8
PMID: 12888303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Popul Stud (Camb). 2003;57(2):199-215. doi: 10.1080/0032472032000097100.

Pretransitional population control and equilibrium.

Caldwell J(1), Caldwell B.

Author information:
(1)Australian National University.

A persistent theme in much anthropological writing is the concept of the 
deliberate control of population numbers by hunter-gatherers as a means of 
achieving moderate family size, adequate nutrition, and constrained adult 
mortality. An analysis of the mix of theory and field evidence that led to this 
conclusion finds the case not proven. On the contrary, Malthusian constraints 
can operate, and probably did operate, to produce a hunter-gatherer society 
where most adults were reasonably robust and healthy even though child mortality 
was high and life expectancy short. The absence of population limitation in 
pre-Neolithic times implies high mortality as well as high fertility, and 
weakens the argument positing a Neolithic mortality crisis.

DOI: 10.1080/0032472032000097100
PMID: 12888414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nurs Stand. 2003 Jul 16-22;17(44):12-4. doi: 10.7748/ns.17.44.12.s27.

A continent under siege.

Parish C.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.17.44.12.s27
PMID: 12889383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Pediatr Dent. 2003 May-Jun;25(3):229-34.

Progression of proximal caries in the mixed dentition: a 4-year prospective 
study.

Vanderas AP(1), Manetas C, Koulatzidou M, Papagiannoulis L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Athens, Greece. avanderas@dent.uoa.gr

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the survival rate and 
median survival time of different stages of proximal caries in 196 children aged 
6 to 8 years at baseline examination.
METHODS: Proximal caries and its progression were diagnosed from bitewing 
radiographs taken at 1-year intervals over a period of 4 years. The mesial 
surface of the first permanent molars, the mesial and distal surfaces of the 
first and second primary molars, and the distal surface of the primary canine 
were examined. Sound surfaces, caries lesions in the external- and internal-half 
of the enamel and external-, middle-, and internal-third of the dentin, as well 
as filled, extracted, and exfoliated teeth were recorded. A life table analysis 
was performed to estimate the annual and cumulative survival rates and the 
median survival time of each state of proximal lesions.
RESULTS: For the sound mesial surfaces of the first permanent molars, the 
cumulative survival rate was 76% and the median survival time was over 48 
months. The corresponding values for the external-half of the enamel lesions 
were 41% and 45 months. Regarding the sound mesial and distal surfaces of the 
primary teeth, the cumulative survival rate was 92% and the median survival time 
was over 48 months. The corresponding values for the external and internal-half 
of the enamel lesions were 40% and 31 months, and 29% and 22 months, 
respectively. The value of the cumulative survival rate for the external-third 
of dentin lesions was 42%, with a median survival time of 34 months, and the 
value for the middle-third of the dentin was 38% with a median survival time of 
17 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of developing carious lesions in the sound proximal 
surfaces of both primary teeth and first permanent molars is low during the 
mixed dentition period; the progression of the external-half of enamel lesions 
of the first permanent molars is low for the first 3 years and becomes faster 
thereafter; and as the time period that the tooth exposed to cariogenic factors 
increases, the progression of the proximal caries is faster for all stages of 
the lesion in the primary teeth.

PMID: 12889698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2003 Aug;30(8):590-7. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1681.2003.03876.x.

On being the right size: heart design, mitochondrial efficiency and lifespan 
potential.

Dobson GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Science Building, School of Biomedical Sciences, James Cook 
University, Townsville, Queensland, Australia. geoffrey.dobson@jcu.edu.au

1. From the smallest shrew or bumble-bee bat to the largest blue whale, heart 
size varies by over seven orders of magnitude (from 12 mg to 600 kg). This study 
reviews the scaling relationships between heart design, cellular bioenergetics 
and mitochondrial efficiencies in mammals of different body sizes. 2. The 
[31P]-nuclear magnetic resonance-derived [phosphocreatine]/[ATP] ratio in hearts 
of smaller mammals is significantly higher (2.7 +/- 0.3 for mouse; n = 22) than 
in larger mammals (1.6 +/- 0.3 for humans; n = 13). 3. The inverse of the free 
myocardial cytosolic [ADP] concentration and the cytosolic phosphorylation ratio 
([ATP]/[ADP][Pi]) scales with heart size and with absolute mitochondrial and 
myofibrillar volumes, close to a quarter-power (from -0.22 to -0.28; r = 0.99). 
4. Assuming a similar mitochondrial P/O ratio and the same maximal amount of 
work required to convert 1 mol NADH to 0.5 mol O2 (i.e. 212.25 kJ/mol), the 
higher [ATP]/[ADP][Pi] ratios or cellular driving forces (DeltaG'ATP) in hearts 
of smaller mammals imply greater mitochondrial efficiencies in coupling ATP 
production to electron transport as body size decreases. For a P/O ratio of 2.5, 
the mitochondrial efficiency in the heart of a shrew, mouse, human and whale is 
84, 82, 71 and 65%, respectively. 5. Higher cytosolic ATP]/[ADP][Pi] ratios and 
DeltaG'ATP values imply that the hearts of smaller mammals operate further from 
equilibrium than hearts of larger mammals. 6. As a consequence of scaling 
relationships, a number of remarkable invariants emerge when comparing heart 
function from the smallest shrew to the largest whale; the total volume of blood 
pumped by each heart in a lifetime is approximately 200 million L/kg heart and 
the total number of heart beats is approximately 1.1 billion per lifetime. 7. 
Similarly, the metabolic potential (total O2 consumed during adult lifespan per 
g bodyweight) for a 2 g shrew or a 100000 kg blue whale is approximately 38 L O2 
consumed or 8.5 mol ATP/g body mass per lifetime. 8. The importance of 
quarter-power scaling relationships linking structural, metabolic and 
bioenergetic design to the natural ageing process and maximum lifespan potential 
is discussed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1681.2003.03876.x
PMID: 12890185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
