Clinical relevance of CD95 (Fas/Apo-1) on T cells of patients with B-cell 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Groneberg C(1), Pickartz T, Binder A, Ringel F, Srock S, Sieber T, Schoeler D, 
Schriever F.

Author information:
(1)Biomedizinisches Forschungszentrum, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Berlin, Germany

OBJECTIVE: Apoptosis mediated via CD95 (Fas/Apo-1) is a key regulator for the 
biology of normal and malignant lymphocytes. Although the function of CD95 on 
B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells (B-CLL cells) has been studied 
intensively, the clinical importance of CD95 expression on normal T cells in 
B-CLL has not been clarified. This study aimed to investigate whether expression 
of CD95 on peripheral blood T cells correlates with clinically relevant 
parameters of B-CLL disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Expression of CD95 (Fas/Apo-1) on peripheral blood T 
lymphocytes of patients with B-CLL was determined using flow cytometry and was 
correlated with expression of activation markers, sensitivity to apoptosis by 
anti-CD95, and clinical data, such as blood count, Binet stage, therapy, 
progression-free probability, and survival probability.
RESULTS: Differential CD95 expression did not correlate with activation markers 
or with levels of apoptosis through anti-CD95. However, high levels of CD95 on T 
cells from B-CLL patients correlated significantly with low lymphocyte doubling 
time, increased Binet stages, and requirement for chemotherapeutic treatment. 
Furthermore, increased cell-surface CD95 on T cells was associated with reduced 
progression-free probability and poorer survival.
CONCLUSIONS: CD95 levels on T cells correlate with the clinical course of B-CLL. 
Prospective studies appear warranted to investigate whether CD95 on T cells has 
a direct influence on B-CLL disease progression.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-472x(03)00109-7
PMID: 12901972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Am J Clin Oncol. 2003 Aug;26(4):S27-33. doi:
10.1097/00000421-200308001-00005.

Emerging role of aromatase inhibitors in the adjuvant setting.

Goss PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Hospital, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) have been approved as second-line treatment for 
estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) metastatic breast cancer after first-line 
treatment with the selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) tamoxifen. 
Anastrozole and letrozole have also recently been widely approved as first-line 
endocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive 
metastatic breast cancer. The three third-generation selective oral AIs approved 
for use in the United States include two nonsteroidal agents, anastrozole 
(Arimidex) and letrozole (Femara), and the irreversible steroidal inhibitor 
exemestane (Aromasin). Several major ongoing clinical trials with a variety of 
treatment regimens are comparing the relative efficacy of tamoxifen with the 
steroidal and nonsteroidal AIs in the adjuvant setting. The first strategy 
compares an AI against tamoxifen directly. Among these are the ATAC (Arimidex, 
Tamoxifen Alone or in Combination) trial (anastrozole), the BIG FEMTA 
(Femara-Tamoxifen Breast International Group) trial (letrozole), and the EXEM 
and TEAM (exemestane) trials. A second strategy is examining the use of an AI as 
an extension after the initial 5 years of tamoxifen. Examples of this trial 
design are the MA-17 (letrozole) and the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Project (NSABP B-33, exemestane) trials. A third approach is the use of 
these agents in sequence with tamoxifen as therapy within the initial 5 
postoperative years. Examples of this approach are the International 
Collaboration Cancer Group trial (tamoxifen for 2-3 years followed by either 
tamoxifen or exemestane for the remainder of the 5-year period), the BIG FEMTA 
trial (patients are crossed over from tamoxifen to Ietrozole or letrozole to 
tamoxifen), and the Arimidex-Nolvadex (ARNO) trial (patients receiving tamoxifen 
are randomized either to continue with tamoxifen or to switch to anastrozole). A 
single trial is comparing tamoxifen and anastrozole as initial 5-year therapy, 
or a combination of the two. The study addressing this design is the ATAC trial. 
Finally, a small trial in Norway is comparing 2 years of an AI versus a placebo 
in very low-risk patients with receptor-positive breast tumors. Most adjuvant 
trials have companion studies associated with the main protocol. These are to 
determine the end-organ effects of the inhibitors and include measurements of 
quality of life, bone and lipid metabolism, and endometrial effects. This review 
addresses the clinical implications of these studies of AIs.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-200308001-00005
PMID: 12902874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Am J Clin Oncol. 2003 Aug;26(4):369-73. doi:
10.1097/01.COC.0000026909.73608.88.

Survival of patients with untreated cervical carcinoma.

Adriano E(1), Jagoe JM, Harrison T, Riffenburgh RH, Johnstone PA.

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Division, Naval Medical Center, San Diego, California, 
USA.

Patients infrequently present with advanced-stage cervical malignancy in the 
United States, where access to care and aggressive screening, detection, and 
treatment regimens are the standard. Neglected cancer is more likely in 
countries with underdeveloped healthcare delivery systems; yet in this new 
millennium, we foresee not only an aging population with modern medicine able to 
prolong life expectancy, but also attentive screening regimens even amid the 
older old. Taking into account common comorbid illness from which patients used 
to die, informed consent in making a treatment in the robust and frail elderly 
becomes a new challenge. Recognizing an ever-growing population in today's 
culture of patient-directed care, clinicians may find patients choosing 
alternative modalities or simply declining conventional therapies. The difficult 
dilemma then arises about how to inform a patient most accurately of her 
prognosis in an untreated condition. In the past, virtually all patients in the 
United States traditionally received some treatment for cervical cancer on 
diagnosis; thus, review was made of archival published literature to document 
survival of patients with untreated cervical cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/01.COC.0000026909.73608.88
PMID: 12902888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4 Suppl):95-7.

[Preoperative CEA: prognostic significance in colorectal carcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Turoldo A(1), Balani A, Scaramucci M, Pistan V, Roseano M, Liguori G.

Author information:
(1)UCO Clinica Chirurgica, Università degli Studi, Trieste.

The prognostic meaning of preoperative CEA level and its relation to the other 
risk factors are still under debate. In 512 patients who underwent surgical 
treatment for colorectal cancer, CEA preoperative plasma level had been 
evaluated. The prognostic value of CEA was compared with other prognostic 
factors and the characteristics of the tumor. There was no significant ratio 
between CEA overexpression and stage, diameter, grading, ploidy, site and shape 
of the cancers. As regard as the long-term results are concerned, the patients 
with normal preoperative CEA levels had a better prognosis. In the Dukes B and C 
tumors, the level of CEA over the cut off point lets identify a group of 
patients with high risk whom more aggressive adjuvant therapies and follow up 
could be addressed to. This study suggests that CEA preoperative is an 
independent prognostic factor and may be useful in the therapeutic planning.

PMID: 12903559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4 Suppl):229-30.

[Liver metastases of choroid melanoma. Retrospective study of 63 cases].

[Article in Italian]

Baldo S(1), Kodjikian L, Belli F, Mariani F, Malvezzi E, Meeus P, DeCian F, 
Rivoire M.

Author information:
(1)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon.

PMID: 12903601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4 Suppl):233-6.

[The treatment of malignant pleural effusions: the experience of a 
multidisciplinary thoracic endoscopy group].

[Article in Italian]

Bertolaccini L(1), Zamprogna C, D'Urso A, Massaglia F.

Author information:
(1)UOa Chirurgia Generale I, ASL 3, Ospedale Maria Vittoria, Torino.

More than half of neoplastic patients show in their clinical history the onset 
of pleural effusion. Malignant pleural effusion produces dyspnea, decreases 
respiratory function and quality of life in patients with advanced cancers. 
Optimal treatment is actually controversial. The aim of this study is to analyze 
the experience of malignant pleural effusion treatment of the Multidisciplinary 
Group of Thoracic Endoscopy. Patients are been subdivided in two group, 
depending on respiratory performance status and they are been submit to a 
Video-Assisted Thoracic Surgery (VATS) with talc pleurodesis and to positioning 
of a chronic indwelling pleural catheter. The treatment of malignant pleural 
effusion with the methods reported above allows, not only to achieve palliation 
of symptomatology, but also to achieve pleurodesis in patients with limited 
life-expectancy with good cost-beneficial ratio.

PMID: 12903603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4 Suppl):269-70.

[Complete mediastinal dissection improves survival in patients with lung 
cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Muscolino G(1), Maragliano S, Doria O.

Author information:
(1)UO Chirurgia Toracica, Ospedale Civico, Palermo.

PMID: 12903616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4 Suppl):301-4.

[Early de novo neoplasia after renal transplantation].

[Article in Italian]

Veroux P(1), Veroux M, Puliatti C, Amodeo C, Macarone M, Cappello D, Caglià P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche, Trapianti d'Organo e Tecnologie 
Avanzate, Centro Trapianti d'Organo, Azienda Policlinico, Università degli Studi 
di Catania.

INTRODUCTION: The chronic use of immunosuppressive therapy in transplant 
recipients to prevent acute rejection increases the long-term risk of cancer. 
The overall incidence of de novo malignancies (DNM) after kidney transplantation 
ranges from 6% to 11%.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2000 and December 2002, 135 renal and 3 
combined kidney-pancreas transplantations were performed.
RESULTS: Of 138 solid organ transplant recipients, a total of 16 (11.6%) cancers 
were diagnosed in 10 renal transplant recipients (7.2%). Six patients were male 
and three female, with a mean age of 47 years (range, 19-63, years). Tumor 
presented at a mean time of 14 months (range, 2-24, months) after 
transplantation. There were three patients with skin cancers, three with 
Kaposis's sarcoma, one with renal cell cancer, one with bladder carcinoma and 
one with breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the DNM occurs more frequently many years after a kidney 
transplantation, our experience demonstrated that they can occur early in the 
follow-up. Skin malignancies had the best prognosis, probably because of early 
detection and treatment. Kaposi's sarcoma benefits from reduction or cessation 
of immuno-suppression, but there is a higher risk of graft loss. Solid organ de 
novo malignancies are often more aggressive than in normal population, and the 
life expectancy of these recipients is very low. Careful long-term screening 
protocols are needed for detection of such malignancies in an early stage.

PMID: 12903627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2003;163:226-31; discussion 264-6. doi: 
10.1007/978-3-642-55647-0_20.

Problems with prostate-specific antigen screening: a critical review.

Schmid HP(1), Prikler L, Semjonow A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kantonsspital, 9007 St. Gallen, Switzerland.

The effect of population screening with regard to reduction of prostate cancer 
specific mortality and quality of life issues is not yet clear. Several national 
and international prospective studies are currently being conducted to answer 
these important questions. They include the trials in the Federal State of 
Tyrol, Austria and in the Quebec City area, Canada, as well as the Prostate, 
Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) trial in the United States and the European 
Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC). In the meantime, 
individual case finding (opportunistic screening) is recommended for men with a 
life-expectancy of at least 10 years.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-55647-0_20
PMID: 12903857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Physiol Biochem. 2003 Mar;59(1):11-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03179863.

Physiological adaptations to exercise in people with spinal cord injury.

Vidal J(1), Javierre C, Segura R, Lizarraga A, Barbany JR, Pérez A.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Neurorehabilitació Guttmann, C/Can Ruti s/n, 08916 Badalona, 
Barcelona. capclinic@guttmann.com

The number of patients that suffer some type of spinal cord lesion in recent 
years are high and have increased because of factors such as traffic accidents. 
Although their life expectancy has increased, cardiovascular illnesses is one of 
the main causes of morbidity and mortality. Since the degree of physical fitness 
is an important factor regarding the risk of cardiovascular disease, the 
objective of the present study was to examine the global adaptation 
(cardiorespiratory, metabolic and thermoregulatory response) of the organism to 
exercise and the application of this data to the habitual practice of physical 
activity to improve state of health. A group of 42 patients with spinal injury, 
85% of whom were paraplegic and the remaining 15% tetraplegic performed 42 
exercise tests on a cycloergometer. Body temperature (tympanum, surface of the 
deltoids and surface of the back), metabolic parameters (plasma uric acid, 
glycemia, plasma lactate), cardiocirculatory adaptation (heart rate, blood 
pressure arm, blood pressure leg) and ventilatory adaptation (VO2, VCO2, fr Vt, 
VE) were monitored. Blood pressure in the arm, blood concentrations of lactate 
and ventilatory parameters showed an evolution statistically dependent on the 
work to which the subject was submitted. Heart rate showed a statistically 
significant correlation with the ventilatory parameters and work load. The 
proportional response of the cardioventilatory parameters to the increase in the 
work load allowed us to evaluate the repercussion of a given exercise and thus 
avoid exercise of an excessive intensity that could produce cardiocirculatory 
changes that might entail an added risk. Heart rate presents an excellent 
correlation, shown in this work, with the oxygen consumption and could therefore 
be used to quantify the cardiorespiratory and metabolic repercussion of the 
exercise carried out. Furthermore, this quantification may allow for the 
adaptation of exercise intensity to the patient thus improving the results 
obtained from the practice of exercise that has been proven so necessary in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03179863
PMID: 12903900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Arthritis Rheum. 2003 Aug;48(8):2224-33. doi: 10.1002/art.11104.

Long-term efficacy and safety of infliximab in the treatment of ankylosing 
spondylitis: an open, observational, extension study of a three-month, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

Braun J(1), Brandt J, Listing J, Zink A, Alten R, Burmester G, Golder W, 
Gromnica-Ihle E, Kellner H, Schneider M, Sörensen H, Zeidler H, Reddig J, Sieper 
J.

Author information:
(1)Benjamin Franklin Hospital, Free University, Berlin, Germany. 
J.Braun@rheumazentrum-ruhrgebiet.de

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2004 Jul;50(7):2376-7; author reply 2377-8.

OBJECTIVE: Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) with infliximab, an 
anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha monoclonal antibody, was shown to be 
efficacious in patients with active disease during a 3-month treatment period. 
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of infliximab 
treatment of AS for a 1-year period.
METHODS: This study was an open, observational, extension study of a 3-month, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial. All patients who had tolerated infliximab 
(infliximab/infliximab group) or placebo (placebo/infliximab 12-week crossover 
group) therapy for 3 months entered the open extension trial (n = 65). 
Infliximab was administered at a dosage of 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks after the 
induction phase (weeks 0, 2, and 6). The primary end point was a 50% improvement 
in the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI).
RESULTS: At week 54, a total of 54 of the 69 patients (78%) continued to take 
infliximab. The intent-to-treat primary efficacy analysis at week 54 showed that 
47% of patients in the infliximab/infliximab group (95% confidence interval 
31-63) and 51% of the patients in the placebo/infliximab group (95% confidence 
interval 36-67) achieved 50% improvement in BASDAI scores. In the analysis of 
those who completed the study, the mean BASDAI scores improved between weeks 0 
and 54 in both treatment groups: from 6.6 to 2.4 in the infliximab/infliximab 
group and from 6.3 to 2.6 in the placebo/infliximab group. The dosage of 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was reduced in approximately 70% of the 
patients. There were significant improvements in measures of functioning, 
metrologic parameters, and quality of life. Between weeks 12 and 54, a total of 
4 patients had serious adverse events that were possibly related to infliximab 
and resulted in their discontinuing the study.
CONCLUSION: Infliximab therapy in AS patients resulted in a rapid and 
significant improvement in BASDAI scores (>50% improvement) and a durable 
response for 1 year. The safety profile of infliximab in AS was comparable to 
that observed in the postmarketing experience for the approved indications.

DOI: 10.1002/art.11104
PMID: 12905476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2002 Jun;24(3):276-80.

[Reconstitution of telomerase activity in human embryonic tendon cells 
transfected by ptsA58H plasmid].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie HQ(1), Qu Y, Li XQ, Qin TW, Yang ZM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reparative and Reconstructive Surgery, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the feasibility of life span extension of transformed 
human embryonic tendon cells (THETC) by reconstitution of the telomerase 
activity.
METHODS: THETC were transfected by pGRN145 plasmid containing the human 
telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) cNDA in vitro by molecular cloning 
technique. The biological characteristics of transfected cells were detected and 
compared by morphological observation, plate cloning efficiency, soft agar 
culture, growth curve of cells cultured in different conditions, 
immunohistochemistry, telomerase activity assay by telomeric repeat 
amplification protocol (TRAP).
RESULTS: The THETC transfected by pGRN145 plasmid (telT) could express the 
telomerase activity with extension of life span. The telT maintained the 
original characteristics of temperature-dependant and serum-dependant, as well 
as secretion of type I collagen normally and without tendency of malignant 
transformation.
CONCLUSIONS: The life span of THETC can be prolonged by reconstitution of 
telomerase activity, which provides the novel experimental methods to establish 
the standard cells line.

PMID: 12905634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Jun;36(3):172-6.

[Considerations from a medical view].

[Article in German]

Meyer AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Leitende Arztin, Allg. Krankenhaus Wandsbek, Hamburg, Germany.

PMID: 12905967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2003 Sep;67(9):939-41. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-5876(03)00135-6.

The prevalence of neurosensorial hearing loss among cystic fibrosis patients 
from Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre.

Piltcher OB(1), Teixeira VN, de Oliveira MW, Scattolin I, Piltcher SL.

Author information:
(1)ENT Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre 90430-061, Spain. 
piltcher@yahoo.com

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is considered one of the most prevalent lethal genetic 
disorders. The life expectancy of those patients has been rising. Besides the 
well-known prevalence of chronic rhinosinusitis, neurosensory hearing loss 
(NSHL) due to the large use of ototoxic antibiotics may be another problem that 
should receive special attention in otolaryngology (ENT).
OBJECTIVES: Define retrospectively the prevalence of NSHL among patients with CF 
from the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) and based on this data 
discuss the need for a specific out patient ENT-CF clinic.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Files from CF HCPA patients were reviewed for age at 
diagnosis, the current age, types of antibiotics used, number of treatments, 
percentage with audiologic evaluation and its respective results.
RESULTS: One hundred and seven files were reviewed. The mean age at diagnosis 
was 1.33 years old (SD 1.97, range 0-12). The mean age of the sample was 7.87 
(SD 4.49, range 1-22). Audiologic evaluation was performed in 39.3% (42) of the 
patients. 28.56% (12) had some degree of NSHL, while 36.3% did not present 
acoustic reflex. From 667 treatments with antibiotics, 49.5% were with 
tobramycin, 43.4% with amycacin and 7% with gentamicin.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of NSHL among CF patients supports the need for a 
specific ENT-CF outpatient clinic. This clinic would help on the prevention and 
treatment of NSHL due to the use of ototoxic antibiotics and on the better 
understanding/control of rhinosinusal disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5876(03)00135-6
PMID: 12907047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Stroke. 2003 Sep;34(9):2103-7. doi: 10.1161/01.STR.0000088063.74250.DB. Epub
 2003 Aug 7.

Stroke in South America: a systematic review of incidence, prevalence, and 
stroke subtypes.

Saposnik G(1), Del Brutto OH; Iberoamerican Society of Cerebrovascular Diseases.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Unit, Department of Neurology, Ramos Mejia Hospital, Buenos Aires 
University, Argentina. gsaposnik@intramed.net.ar

Comment in
    Stroke. 2003 Sep;34(9):2107-8.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke is a leading cause of mortality and disability in 
South America because of an increase in life expectancy and changes in the 
lifestyle of the population. Because epidemiological and clinical 
characteristics of stroke vary according to regional factors, we need to know 
the peculiarities of stroke on this continent.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review of articles on stroke in South 
America, with emphasis on those providing information on the incidence and 
prevalence of stroke (community-based studies) and the pattern of stroke 
subtypes (hospital-based studies).
RESULTS: Seven papers provided information on stroke epidemiology; 11 gave data 
on the pattern of stroke subtypes. Community-based studies showed crude stroke 
prevalence rates ranging from 1.74 to 6.51 per 1000 and annual incidence rates 
from 0.35 to 1.83 per 1000. Hospital-based stroke registries consistently 
reported a high frequency of intracranial hemorrhages, which accounted for 26% 
to 46% of all strokes. Among patients with cerebral infarctions, intracranial 
atherosclerotic lesions and small-vessel disease have been common pathogenic 
mechanisms underlying the stroke. In most studies, hypertensive arteriolopathy 
was the most common cause of both infarctions and hemorrhages.
CONCLUSIONS: Stroke has been poorly studied in South America. Available data 
suggest that the prevalence and incidence of stroke are lower than in developing 
countries. The pattern of stroke subtypes seems to be different from that 
reported in other regions of the world, with a higher frequency of cerebral 
hemorrhages, small-vessel disease, and intracranial atherosclerotic lesions. 
Such differences may be related to genetic, environmental, or sociocultural 
factors and to differences in the control of stroke risk factors.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000088063.74250.DB
PMID: 12907823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Invest Radiol. 2003 Jun;38(6):320-33.

Development of new glucosylated derivatives of gadolinium 
diethylenetriaminepentaacetic for magnetic resonance angiography.

Burtea C(1), Laurent S, Colet JM, Vander Elst L, Muller RN.

Author information:
(1)NMR Laboratory, Department of Organic Chemistry, University of Mons-Hainaut, 
Mons, Belgium.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: A possible approach for the extension of the vascular 
residence time of contrast agents relies on the renal reabsorption mechanisms of 
some molecules such as glucose. In this study, various small-molecular-weight 
glucosyl derivatives of gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic (Gd-DTPA) were 
synthesized and their vascular half-life was studied.
METHODS: Several Gd-DTPA-bisamides carrying glucosyl groups bound by different 
linkers were prepared. The pharmacokinetics and biodistribution of these 
compounds were determined on Wistar rats.
RESULTS: The sugar moieties linked to Gd-DTPA efficiently reduce the renal 
excretion of some derivatives. The interaction with renal carrier has not been 
clearly demonstrated, nor was any interaction observed with blood components.
CONCLUSIONS: Two of the new glucosylated derivatives of Gd-DTPA 
(Cd-DTPA-BC2-beta-cellobionA 2 and Gd-DTPA-BC4-beta-glucosylA 7) can be proposed 
as blood-pool MR contrast agents, considering their vascular remanence.

PMID: 12908699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(6):513-21. doi: 10.1023/a:1024635401206.

Years of life lost due to premature mortality in Italy.

Mariotti S(1), D'Errigo P, Mastroeni S, Freeman K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio Di Epidemiologia, Instituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. 
sergio.mariotti@iss.it

BACKGROUND: The assessment of the burden of disease (BOD) is necessary for 
sensibly allocating limited health-related resources. No such assessment is 
available currently for Italy.
METHODS: Global burden of disease (GBD) methods were used to analyse in detail 
the years of life lost (YLLs) component of BOD for the most important diseases 
contributing to premature mortality in Italy in 1998. YLLs were computed with 
and without age-weighting and discounting. YLLs were also analysed by gender, 
for Italy vs. the Euro-A region (a group of 26 European countries) defined in 
the 2000 update of the GBD Study, and for northern, central and southern Italy, 
the three traditionally demarcated regions of the country.
RESULTS: The use of YLLs yields a ranking of diseases by their relative 
contribution to mortality burden which differs from a ranking based purely on 
death counts. Although males contributed 58.5% and females 41.5% of the total 
mortality burden in terms of YLLs, using death counts the percentages for males 
and females were similar (50.6% M, 49.4% F). The leading cause of mortality 
burden, both in terms of YLLs and death counts, was ischaemic heart disease, 
followed by stroke and lung cancer. Several other conditions, however, had 
rankings that varied depending on the measure used. While cardiovascular 
diseases accounted for 31.7% and 'all cancers' for 34.1% of YLLs, they were 
responsible, respectively, for 44.7 and 27.9% of death counts. The results for 
Italy generally corresponded with those obtained in GBD 2000 for EURO-A, but the 
proportion of the total mortality burden explained by the four leading causes is 
higher in Italy. For within Italy comparisons, there was a decreasing trend from 
north to south for 'all cancers' and for several specific cancers. Conversely, a 
consistent increase in YLL rates from north to south was observed for stroke and 
hypertensive disease.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis of Italy's mortality burden represents the first 
phase in identifying Italy's total BOD. Simply establishing death counts and 
rates is no longer sufficient for a full understanding of a country's health 
status.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024635401206
PMID: 12908716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Autism Dev Disord. 2003 Jun;33(3):361. doi: 10.1023/a:1024470920898.

The life expectancy of children diagnosed with a pervasive developmental 
disorder.

Fombonne E.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024470920898
PMID: 12908839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(12):885-912. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200321120-00005.

Eptifibatide: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in percutaneous coronary 
intervention and acute coronary syndromes.

Plosker GL(1), Ibbotson T.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Eptifibatide (Integrilin) is a selective inhibitor of platelet glycoprotein (GP) 
IIb/IIIa receptors used as adjunctive therapy for patients undergoing 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and for patients with acute coronary 
syndromes (ACS), particularly those requiring PCI. Most economic analyses of 
eptifibatide have incorporated clinical and healthcare resource use data from 
either the ESPRIT (Enhanced Suppression of the Platelet IIb/IIIa Receptor with 
Integrilin Therapy) study in low- to moderate-risk patients undergoing selective 
PCI with stent implantation or the PURSUIT (Platelet Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa in 
Unstable Angina: Receptor Suppression Using Integrilin Therapy) trial in 
patients with ACS. Eptifibatide achieved statistically significant reductions in 
combined endpoints of death and ischaemic complications in both of these large 
multicentre clinical trials, in which patients were randomised to receive 
intravenous eptifibatide or placebo as adjunctive therapy to heparin and aspirin 
(plus a thienopyridine in ESPRIT). In US economic analyses using ESPRIT trial 
data, approximately 40% and 70% of the acquisition cost of eptifibatide was 
offset by reduced medical resource consumption during the initial 
hospitalisation period and over a 1-year period, respectively. Eptifibatide was 
associated with a favourable cost-effectiveness ratio of $US1407 (year 2000 
costs) per life-year gained (LYG) in a retrospective US cost-effectiveness 
analysis that incorporated data from the ESPRIT trial and modelled life 
expectancy using a large cardiovascular database.Several cost-effectiveness 
analyses used prospectively collected data from the PURSUIT trial and modelled 
survival projections using similar methods. These analyses, conducted in the US, 
Canada and Western Europe, also showed favourable results ($US3761-$US18 774 per 
LYG; various years of costing). Cost-utility ratios reported in US analyses 
varied somewhat, but remained <$US20 000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained 
(1996 values) when clinical efficacy data were derived from the US cohort of 
PURSUIT.
CONCLUSION: Significant clinical benefits have been demonstrated with 
eptifibatide as adjunctive therapy in patients undergoing selective PCI with 
stent implantation in the ESPRIT trial and in patients with ACS in the PURSUIT 
trial. Pharmacoeconomic analyses using data from either ESPRIT or PURSUIT have 
demonstrated favourable cost-effectiveness ratios for both indications in 
various countries. ESPRIT-based results from the limited number of available 
economic analyses are particularly favourable. The cost-effectiveness of 
eptifibatide in ACS (i.e. PURSUIT-based results) may be further improved by 
targeting the drug for patients in whom catheterisation and PCI are planned, 
although further analyses are required to confirm this.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321120-00005
PMID: 12908844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Drug Saf. 2003;26(11):769-86. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200326110-00003.

Benefits and risks of simvastatin in patients with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia.

Mata P(1), Alonso R, Badimón J.

Author information:
(1)Lipid Clinic, Internal Medicine Department, Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid, 
Spain. pmata@fjd.es

Familial hypercholesterolaemia is a frequent, inherited, monogenic disorder, 
associated with accelerated development of atherosclerotic disease leading to 
coronary artery disease. Life expectancy of patients with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia is reduced by 15-30 years unless they are adequately 
treated with lipid-lowering therapy. Given the chronic nature of this disease, 
the selection of a therapeutic approach should be strongly based on its 
long-term safety and tolerability. The introduction of HMG-CoA reductase 
inhibitors has revolutionised the treatment of familial hypercholesterolaemia. 
Simvastatin 40-80 mg/day effectively reduces serum low density lipoprotein 
(LDL)-cholesterol levels. Furthermore, simvastatin reduces triglycerides and 
mildly raises high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels. In addition to the 
hypolipidaemic effect, other potentially important effects, such as improvement 
of endothelial function and reduction of LDL oxidation and vascular 
inflammation, have been associated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy. 
Simvastatin has also been shown to abolish the progression, and even facilitate 
the regression, of existing human atherosclerotic lesions. The good safety and 
tolerability profile of simvastatin is clearly highlighted by the low rate of 
therapy discontinuation observed in several population-based clinical trials. 
The most common adverse events leading to the discontinuation of therapy are 
gastrointestinal upset and headache. Asymptomatic elevations in liver 
transaminase levels and myopathy are uncommon. The overwhelming clinical 
evidence regarding the long-term use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy in 
patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia together with the long-term safety 
data (particularly relating to simvastatin) provide support for the use of this 
drug as a first-line agent when pharmacological treatment is indicated. Early 
intervention with simvastatin treatment can be successfully implemented with 
favourable economic benefits.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200326110-00003
PMID: 12908847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Public Health. 2003 Sep;117(5):358-65. doi: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00142-2.

Measuring the burden of premature death due to smoking in Korea from 1990 to 
1999.

Ha BM(1), Yoon SJ, Lee HY, Ahn HS, Kim CY, Shin YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Affairs and Management, The Armed Forced Command, South 
Korea.

This study estimated the burden of premature death due to smoking in Korea 
between 1990 and 1999 using the years of life lost (YLL) due to premature death 
method. To implement this study, age-group-specific YLL due to premature death 
were calculated by employing the standard expected years of life lost method. 
YLL due to smoking were calculated based on assumptions and methods developed by 
the Global Burden of Disease Study Group. The burden of premature death due to 
smoking was estimated by multiplying the population attributable risk by the YLL 
of smoking-related diseases. In 1999, the burden of premature death due to 
smoking was 57.7% in males and 11.4% in females in Korea. The burden of 
premature death due to smoking increased from 1643 person years per 100,000 in 
1990 to 1888 person years in 1999 for males, and increased from 151 person years 
in 1990 to 225 person years in 1999 for females in Korea. Our results suggest 
that the method employed in this study, generated in quantified terms, enabled 
the burden of premature death due to smoking to be obtained comparably with 
methods used by other international studies in this field, and thus can provide 
a rational basis for national health policy planning regarding premature death 
from smoking and the related risk factors in Korea.

DOI: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00142-2
PMID: 12909427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Diabetes Metab. 2003 Jun;29(3):300-6.

[Diabetic retinopathy in children and adolescents].

[Article in French]

Ben Mehidi A(1), Massin P, Guyot-Argenton C, Erginay A, Guillausseau PJ, Gaudric 
A.

Author information:
(1)Services d'Ophtalmologie, Hôpital Lariboisière, Paris, France. 
aminaben@club-internet.fr

Diabetic retinopathy rarely occurs before puberty and is never proliferative in 
prepubescent children. On the opposite, puberty and adolescence are high-risk 
periods for diabetic retinopathy progression, and call for strict ophthalmologic 
monitoring. The period between 16 and 18 years of age is particularly critical. 
Progression towards florid diabetic retinopathy is to be especially feared and 
should be prevented in the course of adolescence, as this form can be severe and 
can lead to blindness. Risk factors are probably many, including diabetes 
duration, difficulties in achieving glycemic control due to increase in insulin 
requirements, low compliance to treatment, and hormonal changes related to 
puberty (abnormalities of the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-I 
(IGF-1) axis). Systematical diabetic retinopathy screening should be performed 
in adolescents, notably by non-mydriatic fundus photographs. Furthermore, the 
anticipation of the switch from pediatric to adult structures, together with the 
careful information and education of parents and children may improve visual 
prognosis of young diabetic patients, whose life expectancy is high.

PMID: 12909820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2003 Jul;159(6-7 Pt 1):622-36.

[Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors].

[Article in French]

Daumas-Duport C(1), Varlet P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Anatomie Pathologique, Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Paris.

Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors DNTs are highly polymorphic tumors that 
arise during embryogenesis. They are preferentially, but not exclusively, 
located in the supratentorial cortex. Histologically they may mimic any 
categories of low-grade or even of high-grade gliomas, but from a carcinological 
point of view, they behave as stable lesions. Their differential diagnosis from 
gliomas is obviously important to spare these young patients with a normal life 
expectancy the long- term deleterious effect of radiation or chemotherapy. The 
diagnosis of DNT must be considered when all the following criteria are present: 
partial seizures with or without secondary generalization, no neurological 
deficit or a stable congenital deficit, cortical topography on MRI, absence of 
peri-tumoral edema and of mass effect. In other locations, the diagnosis of DNT 
has to be suspected in case of discordance between the neurological status of 
the patient and the topography of the tumor or of unusual radiological features 
such as contrast enhancement but no mass effect and no edema. Supratentorial 
cortical DNTs tend now to be detected more systematically by imaging soon after 
first seizures. In most instances, the epilepsy can be cured by gross total 
surgical removal. Surgery also allows to prevent the risks of intratumoral 
hematoma or infarct. DNTs should therefore be operated soon after diagnosis. 
However, excellent results can also be obtained by epilepsy surgery in patients 
with long term drug resistant partial seizures.

PMID: 12910070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Rev Mal Respir. 2003 Apr;20(2 Pt 2):S29-35.

[Cystic fibrosis and survival: what interpretation?].

[Article in French]

Moreau T(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM U472: Epidémiologie et Biostatistique , Villejuif, France. 
moreau@vjf.inserm.fr

PMID: 12910132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Przegl Epidemiol. 2003;57(2):381-9.

[Molecular methods in the diagnosis of infectious diseases].

[Article in Polish]

Bartkowiak J(1).

Author information:
(1)Zakład Biochemii Lekarskiej, Instytut Fizjologii i Biochemii, Uniwersytet 
Medyczny w Łodzi. j.bartkowiak@pro.onet.pl

In the long term, many of the conventional diagnostic approaches to detection 
and characterisation of infectious diseases is complemented or even replaced by 
recognition of DNA/RNA specific sequences. The molecular procedures are based on 
two distinct types of methods--nucleic acid hybridization techniques with 
specific molecular probes, and DNA amplification by the polymerase chain 
reaction PCR. In the first method DNA fragments generated by restriction 
endonucleases are separated by electrophoresis, transferred to proper membrane 
and annealed with specific oligonucleotides which are labelled with 32P or with 
a non-radioactive marker. PCR reaction utilizes a DNA extension enzyme 
(polymerase) which can add nucleotide bases to primers once a template is 
provided. Oligonucleotides primers have to recognize target molecule. The single 
cycle is then repeated and each time DNA segments are doubled. Multiplex 
polymerase chain reactions have been designed to identify an organism as well as 
its virulence-specific sequences or antibiotic resistance plasmids 
simultaneously. The major drawback of PCR procedure which result from its 
exquisite sensitivity have to be consider. The problem is contamination and many 
strategies have been developed to avoid it. To these research tools were added 
probes for in situ hybridization. Advantages provided by this technique include 
the ability to detect latent (non-replicating) viruses and to localize their 
genomes to nuclear or cytoplasmic regions within cells. Nucleic acid probes or 
the hybridization conditions can be manipulated so that a broad spectrum of 
genotypes could be detectable. This is particularly valuable in those emerging 
infections where the individual serotypes are unknown. Recombinant DNA 
approaches have now been described for detection of a wide range of infectious 
agents. Some remain research activities, others are more appropriate to the 
routine diagnostic laboratory. An understanding of a pathogen's life cycle and 
the host's responses to the infectious agent is enhanced by characterisation of 
the former's genome using molecular technology. The spread of epidemics or 
hospital-acquired (nonsocomial) infections is followed and characterised with 
more accuracy by the identification of unique DNA fingerprints for individual 
pathogens. The prospects for molecular medicine in microbiology are vast and 
will have profound effects in laboratory and clinical practice.

PMID: 12910610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2003 Aug;28(4):339-46. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2710.2003.00469.x.

Use of pharmacoeconomics in prescribing research. Part 4: is cost-utility 
analysis a useful tool?

Brinsmead R(1), Hill S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medical Practice and Population Health, 
Faculty of Health, University of Newcastle, NSW Australia. 
ginab@smartchat.net.au

This paper is the fourth in the 'Research Note' series describing various 
aspects of pharmacoeconomics in prescribing research. This article describes 
cost-utility analysis, and how it can be incorporated into pharmacoeconomics. 
While this approach has intuitive appeal, the uncertainties about the methods 
for estimating utilities mean that the value of cost-utility analysis in 
prescribing research is still to be established. Importantly, cost-utility 
analysis may not capture aspects of quality of life that enable meaningful 
comparisons between prescribing choices at an individual or societal level.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2710.2003.00469.x
PMID: 12911687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Hematology. 2003 Aug;8(4):229-31. doi: 10.1080/10245330310001594225.

Hodgkin's disease variant of Richter's syndrome: complete remission of the both 
malignancies after 14 years.

Alliot C(1), Tabuteau S, Desablens B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Blood Diseases, Amiens University Hospital, Cedex 80054 Amiens, 
France. alliotfr@yahoo.fr

Richter's syndrome is defined by the occurrence of high-grade malignant lymphoma 
in the course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The prognosis is poor with 
a life expectancy of a few months. We report on the case of a 68-year old male 
who developed Hodgkin's disease 6 years after the diagnosis of stage A CLL was 
made. The patient received 3 cycles of combination chemotherapy according to the 
ABVD regimen, followed by radiotherapy. This treatment resulted in complete 
apparent remission of the two diseases, which was persistent after a follow-up 
of 14 years. The Hodgkin's disease variant of Richter's syndrome is exceptional 
with about 20 reported cases to date. Recent research indicates that lymphoma 
cells derive from leukemia. The prognosis appears far better than that for the 
classical non-Hodgkin Richter's syndrome.

DOI: 10.1080/10245330310001594225
PMID: 12911940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Clin Cancer Res. 2003 Aug 1;9(8):2965-72.

Phase I dose-escalation study of the safety and pharmacokinetics of atrasentan: 
an endothelin receptor antagonist for refractory prostate cancer.

Zonnenberg BA(1), Groenewegen G, Janus TJ, Leahy TW, Humerickhouse RA, Isaacson 
JD, Carr RA, Voest E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, 3584 CX Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. B.Zonnenberg@azu.nl

PURPOSE: Evidence suggests that endothelin (ET)-1 and its primary receptor, the 
ET(A) receptor, may contribute to the progression of prostate and other cancers. 
Atrasentan (ABT-627) is a highly potent, selective ET(A) receptor antagonist. 
This study assessed safety, maximum tolerated dose, and pharmacokinetics (PK) in 
patients with refractory adenocarcinomas, primarily prostate cancer.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This 28-day, single-center Phase I trial evaluated the 
safety and PK of escalating oral atrasentan doses (2.5-95 mg) given daily 
(except day 2) to eligible patients >/==" BORDER="0">18 years old with an 
adenocarcinoma proven resistant to standard therapy. Priority was given to 
patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer. After 28 days, patients 
without objective signs of tumor progression were eligible to continue 
atrasentan in an extension study.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients (30 of whom had prostate cancer) were treated in 
cohorts of three patients each with escalating atrasentan doses (2.5, 5, 10, 20, 
30, 45, 60, 75, and 95 mg). The most common adverse events were rhinitis, 
headache, and peripheral edema. Anemia consistent with a reversible hemodilution 
effect was observed. No maximum tolerated dose was found in the dose range 
studied. Atrasentan PK were characterized by rapid absorption (mean T(max) = 0.9 
h), mean +/- SD oral clearance of 24 +/- 15 liters/h, and volume distribution of 
726 +/- 477 liters. PK were approximately dose-proportional and time independent 
across doses.
CONCLUSIONS: Atrasentan is well tolerated, with no dose-limiting adverse events 
observed up to 95 mg. Adverse events are consistent with the vasodilatory effect 
of the drug. PK are linear and dose-proportional; the half-life is appropriate 
for once-daily dosing.

PMID: 12912943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Neurology. 2003 Aug 12;61(3):349-54. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000078928.20107.52.

Survival in frontotemporal dementia.

Hodges JR(1), Davies R, Xuereb J, Kril J, Halliday G.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Neurology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. 
john.hodges@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To establish survival in patients with pathologically confirmed 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and to determine whether clinical or pathologic 
subtype affects prognosis.
METHODS: The authors reviewed the presenting clinical features of 61 patients 
with dementia and pathologically confirmed FTD studied in Sydney (n = 31) and 
Cambridge (n = 30) over a 10-year period. Data were available on time of symptom 
onset, diagnosis, institutionalization, and death. Cases were classified 
pathologically as tau-positive and tau-negative.
RESULTS: Of the 61 patients with FTD, 26 presented with frontal variant (fvFTD), 
9 with semantic dementia, 8 with progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), 9 with 
associated motor neuron disease (FTD-MND), and 9 with corticobasal degeneration 
features. There was no difference between the groups in age at symptom onset 
(overall mean 58.5 +/- 7.8 years), but at diagnosis the PNFA (68.3 +/- 2.7) 
group was significantly older than the fvFTD (59.9 +/- 7.4) and FTD-MND (57.7 
+/- 7.9) groups. The median survival from symptom onset and from diagnosis was 6 
+/- 1.1 years (95% CI) for fvFTD and 3 +/- 0.4 years for FTD-MND. Survival 
across subgroups was equivalent except for the FTD-MND group, which had 
significantly shorter survival. Cases with tau-positive pathology had an older 
age at onset and a significantly better prognosis: median survival 9.0 +/- 0.9 
years vs 5.0 +/- 1.1 years.
CONCLUSIONS: FTD is a malignant disorder with limited life expectancy. FTD-MND 
has the shortest duration both before and after diagnosis. Tau-positivity is 
associated with a more slowly progressive form of FTD.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000078928.20107.52
PMID: 12913196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2003 Mar;14(81):261-4.

[Depression in perimenopausal period].

[Article in Polish]

Zalewska-Juzwa A(1), Czestochowska E.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Chorób Wewnetrznych, Endokrynologii i Zaburzeń Hemostazy Instytutu 
Chorób Wewnetrznych Akademii Medycznej w Gdańsku.

In the article are two frequently misused notions are defined: climiacterium and 
menopause. Menopause-related disorders can appear 2 to 6 years before and 
continue for 2 to 6 years after menopause, with their duration up to 20 years. 
An attempt of qualitative approach to menopausal ailments is the point scale by 
Kupperman. The diversity of the symptoms encountered in women in perimenopausal 
period is the reason to seek medical advice from experts in various disciplines: 
internal medicine, cardiology, gynaecology, neurology, rheumatology, and least 
frequently psychiatry, as it is fairly common for women to perceive life 
problems or mental stress as somatic disorder. In Poland, middle-aged women 
constitute 30% of all women. Medical approach to their health problems is 
focused on somatic diseases like myocardial infarction, cerebral stroke, and 
cancer, which are likely to contribute to shortening of life expectancy. Growing 
awareness of the problem of depression among doctors non-psychiatrists may 
contribute to desirable change in doctors' and patients' attitude to this 
disease. The average prevalence of depression is estimated to be about 17% of 
the total population. Depression is thrice more frequent among women than among 
men. The peak of incidence is seen among middle-aged patients. In this article 
clinical forms of affective disorders are discussed according to the current DSM 
IV classification, main symptoms suggesting depression are given, and masked 
depression, the most common and most difficult to detect form of the disease is 
