transformed cells. The results we present here highlight an unexpected possible 
outcome of cellular immortalization driven by telomerase reactivation, and 
indicate that, in some cases, an artificial extension of cellular replicative 
capacity can increase the probability of occurrence of genomic alterations, 
which can lead to cellular transformation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-291x(03)01484-0
PMID: 12927806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Clin Ther. 2003;25 Suppl A:A9-A17.

Achieving healthy people 2010 immunization goals: proceedings of a national 
conference. Chapel Hill, North Carolina: October 12-13, 2001. Economics of 
immunization.

Sisk J(1).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA.

PMID: 12928064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2003 Sep;26(9):1796-802. doi: 
10.1046/j.1460-9592.2003.t01-1-00272.x.

Effect of modern pacing algorithms on generator longevity: a predictive 
analysis.

Gelvan D(1), Crystal E, Dokumaci B, Goldshmid Y, Ovsyshcher IE.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic, BeerSheva, Israel.

Pulse generator (PG) longevity is of major importance to the quality of care of 
pacemaker patients. A series of automatic algorithms affect PG longevity. This 
study investigated the individual and combined effects of three algorithms 
incorporated in the Medtronic Kappa 700 pacemaker series: Capture Management 
periodically measures the stimulation threshold and adjusts the PG output, Sinus 
Preference allows the sinus rate to prevail in a specified range below the 
sensor rate, and Search AV allows an extension of the AV interval if spontaneous 
conduction is observed. The effects of Capture Management, Sinus Preference, and 
Search AV on device longevity were studied in 21 consecutive patients treated in 
the VDD and DDDR modes. Patients were followed for 1 year. The data were 
analyzed using an equation provided by the manufacturer. Capture Management was 
activated in 20 patients. For 11 PGs at the basic settings, longevity was 
extended by 5.2%, whereas reprogrammed PGs had no gain. Sinus Preference was 
active in four DDDR patients, who gained 12.0 +/- 5.3%atrial sensing from it, 
with a resultant longevity gain of1.4 +/- 0.45 months(NS). Search AV was active 
in 19 patients and 8 responders gained 7.8 +/- 4.4 months PG longevity. The 
overall longevity in this study was 106.3 +/- 8.4 months with all features as 
programmed, whereas the longevity without Capture Management and Search AV 
algorithms would be 98.2 +/- 4.9 months, saving 8.1 +/- 5.8 months(range 0-18) 
of battery life. Thus, two algorithms: Capture Management and Search AV, have 
clinical relevance in the extension of PG longevity.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9592.2003.t01-1-00272.x
PMID: 12930492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Cloning Stem Cells. 2003;5(2):143-8. doi: 10.1089/153623003322234740.

UP1 extends life of primary porcine fetal fibroblasts in culture.

Mir B(1), Tanner N, Chowdhary BP, Piedrahita JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina.

Genetic modification of somatic cell nuclei and subsequent nuclear transfer has 
opened an opportunity to create gene-targeted animals. However, somatic cells 
have a limited life span in culture and it is not possible to introduce precise 
genetic changes in both alleles in this narrow time window. To increase the life 
span of somatic cell in culture, both genetic and chemical approaches have been 
tried with varying success. Here, we report the effect of two anti-oxidants, 
glutathione and n-t-butyl hydroxylamine, and of the expression of UP1, a 
shortened derivative of heterogeneous nuclear riboprotein (hnRNP)A1, on the life 
extension of primary porcine fibroblasts in culture. Under our experimental 
conditions, the use of anti-oxidants did not result in any prolongation of the 
life span. In contrast, UP1 expression increased the life span significantly. 
While most control cells stopped growing by PDL 20, and none survived beyond PDL 
35, 100% of UP1-expressing clones reached PDL50, and 40% made it to PDL65. The 
five UP1-expressing clones were karyotyped at PDL 50. While all of them had a 
range of numerical chromosomal abnormalities, two clones retained 30-40% normal 
cells, all the cells in other three clones had abnormal chromosome numbers. 
Thus, expression of UP1 may be useful in extending the life span of somatic 
cells in culture. This, in turn, will facilitate the process of gene targeting 
in this cell type.

DOI: 10.1089/153623003322234740
PMID: 12930626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Urban Health. 2003 Sep;80(3):465-81. doi: 10.1093/jurban/jtg046.

Preventing HIV in injection drug users: choosing the best mix of interventions 
for the population.

Wilson AR(1), Kahn JG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Services Research and Policy, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, MN, USA. arwilson@umn.edu

Injection drug users (IDUs) transmit the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) via 
both needle sharing and sex. This analysis explores the effects of population 
risk behaviors, intervention effectiveness, intervention costs, and budget and 
capacity constraints when allocating funds between two prevention programs to 
maximize effectiveness. The two interventions, methadone maintenance and street 
outreach, address different types of risk behavior. We developed a model of the 
spread of HIV and divided IDUs into susceptible (uninfected) persons and 
infective persons and separately portrayed sex and injection risk. We simulated 
the epidemic in San Francisco, California, and New York City for periods from 
the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s and incorporated the behavioral effects of the 
two interventions. We used the simulation to find the allocation of a fixed 
budget to the two interventions that averted the greatest number of infections 
in the IDUs and their noninjecting sex partners. We assumed that interventions 
have increasing marginal costs. In the epidemic scenarios, our analysis found 
that the best allocation nearly always involves spending as much as possible on 
street outreach. This result is largely insensitive to variations in epidemic 
scenario, intervention efficacy, and cost. However, the absolute and relative 
benefits of the best allocation varied. In mid-1990s San Francisco, maximizing 
spending on outreach averted 3.5% of total HIV infections expected and 10 times 
the 0.3% from maximizing spending on treatment. In late 1980s New York City, the 
difference is five-fold (2.6% vs. 0.44%, respectively). Our analyses suggest 
that, even though prevention works better in higher risk scenarios, the choice 
of intervention mix is more important in the lower risk scenarios. Models and 
analyses such as those presented here may help decision makers adapt individual 
prevention programs to their own communities and to reallocate resources among 
programs to reflect the evolution of their own epidemics.

DOI: 10.1093/jurban/jtg046
PMCID: PMC3455970
PMID: 12930884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Lancet. 2003 Aug 16;362(9383):507-15. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)14109-8.

Smoking and mortality from tuberculosis and other diseases in India: 
retrospective study of 43000 adult male deaths and 35000 controls.

Gajalakshmi V(1), Peto R, Kanaka TS, Jha P.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiological Research Center, New No 37 Outer Circular Road, KG Colony, 
Chennai 600 010, India. gajaerc@rediffmail.com

Comment in
    Lancet. 2003 Oct 11;362(9391):1243-4.

BACKGROUND: In India most adult deaths involve vascular disease, pulmonary 
tuberculosis, or other respiratory disease, and men have smoked cigarettes or 
bidis (which resemble small cigarettes) for several decades. The study objective 
was to assess age-specific mortality from smoking among men (since few women 
smoke) in urban and in rural India.
METHODS: We did a case-control study of the smoking habits of 27000 urban and 
16000 rural men who had died in the state of Tamil Nadu, southern India, from 
medical causes (ie, any cause other than accident, homicide, or suicide), and of 
20000 urban and 15000 rural male controls. The main analyses are of mortality at 
ages 25-69 years.
FINDINGS: In the urban study area, the death rates from medical causes of ever 
smokers were double those of never smokers (standardised risk ratio at ages 
25-69 years 2.1 [95% CI 2.0-2.2]). The risks were substantial both for cigarette 
smoking (the main urban habit) and for bidi smoking. Of this excess mortality 
among smokers, a third involved respiratory disease, chiefly tuberculosis (4.5 
[4.0-5.0], smoking-attributed fraction 61%), a third involved vascular disease 
(1.8 [1.7-1.9], smoking-attributed fraction 24%), 11% involved cancer (2.1 
[1.9-2.4], smoking-attributed fraction 32%), chiefly of the respiratory or upper 
digestive tracts, and 14% involved alcoholism or cirrhosis (3.3 [2.9-3.8], not 
attributed to smoking). Among ever smokers, the absolute excess mortality from 
tuberculosis was substantial throughout the age range 25-69 years. (A separate 
survey of 250000 men living in the urban study area found that ever smokers are 
three times as likely as never smokers to report a history of tuberculosis, 
corresponding to a higher rate of progression of chronic subclinical infection 
to clinical disease.) The proportional excesses of respiratory, vascular, and 
neoplastic mortality at ages 25-69 years among ever smokers in the urban study 
area were replicated, each with similarly narrow CI for the risk ratio, in the 
rural study area (where bidi smoking predominated), and are taken to be largely 
or wholly causal. For urban and for rural death from medical causes at older 
ages (> or =70 years), the standardised risk ratio was 1.3.
INTERPRETATION: Smoking, which increases the incidence of clinical tuberculosis, 
is a cause of half the male tuberculosis deaths in India, and of a quarter of 
all male deaths in middle age (plus smaller fractions of the deaths at other 
ages). At current death rates, about a quarter of cigarette or bidi smokers 
would be killed by tobacco at ages 25-69 years, those killed at these ages 
losing about 20 years of life expectancy. Overall, smoking currently causes 
about 700000 deaths per year in India, chiefly from respiratory or vascular 
disease: about 550000 men aged 25-69 years, about 110000 older men, and much 
smaller numbers of women (since few women smoke).

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)14109-8
PMID: 12932381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Aquat Toxicol. 2003 Oct 8;65(1):93-100. doi: 10.1016/s0166-445x(03)00109-7.

Effects of zinc exposure on the polychaete Dinophilus gyrociliatus: a life-table 
response experiment.

Mauri M(1), Baraldi E, Simonini R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animale, Università degli Studi di Modena e Reggio 
Emilia, Via Campi 213/D, 41100 Modena, Italy. mauri.marina@unimore.it

A life-table response experiment (LTRE) was performed in order to study the 
effects of enhanced zinc on the survival, fecundity and demographic indices of 
Dinophilus gyrociliatus (Polychaeta). A control group and three treated cohorts 
kept in artificial seawater enriched with nominal concentrations of zinc at 
0.25, 0.50 and 1.00 microg Zn/ml, respectively, were considered. Zinc marginally 
affected survival but had a strong impact on the reproduction of D. 
gyrociliatus. Zinc enrichment had no effect on age at maturity, whereas it 
induced a slight increase in fecundity during the early reproductive phases at 
0.50 and 1.00 microg Zn/ml, and a sharp decrease in fecundity from the 20th day 
of life at all levels of metal enrichment tested. Treated groups were 
characterised by a marked reduction of the net growth rate (R0) and a decrease 
in generation time (T) with respect to the control groups, but no effect on life 
expectancy (e0) or on population growth rates (lambda) was observed. R0 and 
lambda, which are the most commonly used indices of fitness, were not equally 
susceptible to zinc. Lambda appears less sensitive to stress induced by metal 
enrichment with respect to R0 and other life history traits like age-specific 
fecundity. D. gyrociliatus appears to be an appropriate bioindicator species in 
LTRE to assess the consequences of environmental heavy metals on individual 
life-history and population dynamics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-445x(03)00109-7
PMID: 12932704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2003 Sep 10;110(1):63-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-2115(03)00085-x.

Longevity after early surgical menopause-the long-term effect of a permanent 
cessation of reproductive function and female sex hormone loss.

Nilsson PM(1), Nilsson E, Svanberg L, Samsioe G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Malmö, S-205 02, Sweden. 
peter.nilsson@medforsk.mas.lu

OBJECTIVE: To investigate longevity in women after bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy (BSOE), not given hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) 
post-operatively, as compared to the national mean.
STUDY DESIGN: Long-term follow-up study of a historical cohort of young women 
undergoing BSOE in the early 20th century at the General Hospital, Malmö, 
Sweden. Comparison was made with mean life expectancy in corresponding birth 
cohorts.
RESULTS: No difference in life expectancy was recorded in 152 women with an 
early menopause caused by BSOE and not substituted with HRT, as compared to 
national statistics of contemporary women. Half of the operated women died of 
cardiovascular disease and a minority of cancer, none of which was a breast 
cancer.
CONCLUSION: Permanent loss of female sex hormones and reproductive function in 
early life does not seem to influence longevity but may change patterns of 
morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-2115(03)00085-x
PMID: 12932874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. BMJ. 2003 Aug 23;327(7412):404-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.404.

The health status of indigenous peoples and others.

Ring I, Brown N.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2003 Aug 23;327(7412):403-4.
    BMJ. 2003 Oct 25;327(7421):988.
    BMJ. 2003 Oct 25;327(7421):989.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2003 Mar 8;326(7388):510-1.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.404
PMCID: PMC188480
PMID: 12933706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. BMJ. 2003 Aug 23;327(7412):414. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.414.

Carrying a heavy burden.

Sweet M.

On qualifying, Aboriginal doctor Mark Wenitong was asked how he intended to 
solve his community's health problems

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.414
PMCID: PMC188492
PMID: 12933717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. BMJ. 2003 Aug 23;327(7412):443-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.443.

Ethnicity, equity, and quality: lessons from New Zealand.

McPherson KM(1), Harwood M, McNaughton HK.

Author information:
(1)Wellington School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Wellington, New Zealand. 
K.McPherson@soton.ac.uk

Life expectancy and poorer outcomes associated with ethnicity are important 
issues for many countries. National and local developments are making a 
difference in New Zealand

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7412.443
PMCID: PMC188501
PMID: 12933736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Arthroplasty. 2003 Aug;18(5):587-91. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(03)00207-9.

Ten-year patient and prosthesis survival after unipolar hip hemiarthroplasty in 
female patients over 70 years old.

Wachtl SW(1), Jakob RP, Gautier E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hôpital Cantonal, Firbourg, Switzerland.

We found that 162 unipolar hemiarthroplastics of the hip were performed between 
1989 and 1995 on women over 70 years of age in our institution. The mean age was 
84 years (70 to 99). Cumulative survival of the prostheses was 98% at 1 year and 
94% after 5 and 10 years. Of the original patients, 137 have died. Survival rate 
for patients was 73% at 1 year, 23% at 5 years, and 6% at 10 years. Eighteen 
patients could be accounted for, with a mean follow-up time of 7.7 years 
(5.5-11.3 years). The mean Harris hip score was 80 points (55-100). Protrusion 
was observed in 3 patients. The treatment of cervical neck fracture with 
unipolar hip prostheses is a valuable method, with a low complication rate, 
particularly in women over 70 years for whom life expectancy may be short.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(03)00207-9
PMID: 12934210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Arthroplasty. 2003 Aug;18(5):631-7. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(03)00143-8.

Influence of demographic and technical variables on the incidence of osteolysis 
in Charnley primary low-friction hip arthroplasty.

Nercessian OA(1), Joshi RP, Martin G, Su BW, Eftekhar NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, New York Orthopaedic Hospital, New York, 
NY 10032, USA.

The influence of demographic and technical variables on the incidence of 
osteolysis in Charnley primary low-friction arthroplasty was investigated. 
Demographic variables included age, gender, diagnosis, and Charnley joint class. 
Technical variables included the design of acetabular and femoral components, 
subchondral plate retention versus removal, and cementing techniques. We 
analyzed 633 hips (in 494 patients) implanted by a single surgeon between 1970 
and 1984 using Kaplan-Meier survival graphs. Radiographically determined 
osteolysis was defined as the end point. The incidence of osteolysis at 5 years 
was 2% (confidence interval [CI] +/- 0.5%); at 10 years, 8% (CI +/- 1.6%); at 15 
years, 15% (CI +/- 2.2%); and at 20 years, 17% (CI +/- 3.5%). Younger patients 
(age < 65 years) and men were both found to have a significantly increased 
incidence of osteolysis (P<.05). No significant association with osteolysis was 
found for the other demographic and technical variables investigated. Osteolysis 
predates loosening and failure of hip arthroplasty. Regular assessment with the 
goal of earlier identification, especially in higher risk younger and male 
patients, is important to avoid excessive bone loss and technical difficulties 
in revision surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(03)00143-8
PMID: 12934217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Natl Med Assoc. 2003 Aug;95(8):757-8.

Old age.

Hutchinson J.

PMCID: PMC2594581
PMID: 12934878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Obes Surg. 2003 Aug;13(4):642-8. doi: 10.1381/096089203322190899.

Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding for severe obesity.

Vella M(1), Galloway DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow, 
Scotland, UK.

BACKGROUND: Morbid obesity is an increasingly common condition with serious 
associated morbidity and decreased life expectancy. The only treatment with 
long-term efficacy for this condition is surgical intervention. Laparoscopic 
adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) is a procedure increasingly performed in 
European centres and recently approved by the FDA in USA. This article reviews 
its effectiveness and complications.
METHODS: A literature search identified relevant articles.
RESULTS: LAGB results in approximately 60% (43-78%) excess weight loss at 3 
years with improvement in co-morbidities, with perioperative mortality <0.5%. 
Potential complications include prolapse or pouch dilatation, and port-related 
complications. Less common complications are intra-operative gastric perforation 
and band erosion. Rate of reoperation varies greatly between series, and is 
usually needed for band repositioning or port-related procedures, many of the 
latter performed under local anesthesia.
CONCLUSION: The available data demonstrate that LAGB is a safe bariatric 
procedure, and is effective in the short- and medium-term. Results of long-term 
follow-up are awaited.

DOI: 10.1381/096089203322190899
PMID: 12935369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Am J Clin Nutr. 2003 Sep;78(3 Suppl):526S-532S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/78.3.526S.

Does low meat consumption increase life expectancy in humans?

Singh PN(1), Sabaté J, Fraser GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Loma 
Linda University, Loma Linda, CA 92350, USA. psingh@sph.llu.edu

BACKGROUND: Since meat products represent a major source of protein in the 
Western diet, findings on whether meat intake significantly contributes to the 
burden of fatal disease have important clinical and public health implications.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to examine whether a very low meat intake (less 
than weekly) contributes to greater longevity.
DESIGN: We reviewed data from 6 prospective cohort studies and report new 
findings on the life expectancy of long-term vegetarians from the Adventist 
Health Study.
RESULTS: Our review of the 6 studies found the following trends: 1) a very low 
meat intake was associated with a significant decrease in risk of death in 4 
studies, a nonsignificant decrease in risk of death in the fifth study, and 
virtually no association in the sixth study; 2) 2 of the studies in which a low 
meat intake significantly decreased mortality risk also indicated that a longer 
duration (>/= 2 decades) of adherence to this diet contributed to a significant 
decrease in mortality risk and a significant 3.6-y (95% CI: 1.4, 5.8 y) increase 
in life expectancy; and 3) the protective effect of a very low meat intake seems 
to attenuate after the ninth decade. Some of the variation in the survival 
advantage in vegetarians may have been due to marked differences between studies 
in adjustment for confounders, the definition of vegetarian, measurement error, 
age distribution, the healthy volunteer effect, and intake of specific plant 
foods by the vegetarians.
CONCLUSION: Current prospective cohort data from adults in North America and 
Europe raise the possibility that a lifestyle pattern that includes a very low 
meat intake is associated with greater longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/78.3.526S
PMID: 12936945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Am J Clin Nutr. 2003 Sep;78(3 Suppl):539S-543S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/78.3.539S.

Lessons from dietary studies in Adventists and questions for the future.

Willett W(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health and the Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02115, USA. dosulliv@hsph.harvard.edu

Comparisons of diets and disease rates between Adventists and non-Adventists, 
and prospective cohort studies among Adventists, have contributed greatly to our 
general understanding of nutrition and health. The most fundamental conclusion 
drawn from the Adventist Health Studies has been that maintaining a lean body 
weight throughout life is central for optimal health. Other contributions have 
included the value of nut consumption for prevention of coronary artery disease, 
and the roles of red meat and dairy products in the etiologies of cardiovascular 
disease and cancer. Although much progress has been made, many issues remain 
unresolved. In particular, rates of breast and prostate cancers remain high 
among Adventist populations despite an overall healthy lifestyle and long life 
expectancy. There is even some suggestion that risk of breast cancer may 
increase with duration of being a vegetarian. One topic that may be uniquely 
studied among an Adventist population is the effect of soy phytoestrogens in 
disease prevention. Although soy consumption has been hypothesized to contribute 
to the low rates of breast cancer in Asian populations, several intervention 
studies using high doses of soy estrogens have shown changes in breast nipple 
fluid that would predict higher rates of breast cancer. Also, high dairy product 
consumption has been associated with risk of prostate and ovarian cancers in 
some but not all studies. The unusually wide range of milk consumption in 
Adventists will be particularly informative with regard to these relations. 
Resolution of these issues is needed to provide optimal guidance regarding 
healthy diets, and the newly funded Adventist Health Study will contribute 
importantly in this effort.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/78.3.539S
PMID: 12936947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2003 Sep;88(5):F365-70. doi: 
10.1136/fn.88.5.f365.

Use of low molecular mass heparin (enoxaparin) in newborn infants: a prospective 
cohort study of 62 patients.

Streif W(1), Goebel G, Chan AK, Massicotte MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Innsbruck, Austria. 
Werner.Streif@uibk.ac.at

OBJECTIVE: To detail low molecular mass heparin (enoxaparin) use in the first 
few months of life.
DESIGN: Prospective, consecutive cohort of unselected newborn infants.
METHODS: Newborn infants were divided into groups by gestational age, underlying 
condition, hepatic and renal function, thrombocytopenia, and prothrombin time 
(PT/INR). Groups were analysed with respect to many aspects of enoxaparin 
treatment using multivariate methods.
RESULTS: Sixty two newborn infants received enoxaparin representing 5.39 
treatment years. Thromboembolic events (TEs) occurred predominantly in the lower 
and upper venous system in the presence of indwelling catheters (69%). Preterm 
infants required longer than full term infants to achieve an anti-(factor Xa) 
level in the target range (six versus two days). Preterm infants required higher 
doses of enoxaparin than full term infants to maintain anti-(factor Xa) levels 
in the target range (2.1 v 1.7 mg/kg/12 h). Infants with congenital heart 
disease (CHD) required less enoxaparin than those without CHD to maintain an 
anti-(factor Xa) level in the target range (1.7 v 2.1 mg/kg/12 h). Impaired 
renal and liver function influenced the number of dose changes needed (three 
versus one a month). Complete or partial resolution of TE was accomplished in 
59% of newborn infants. Four infants developed major bleeds (1.2% per patient 
year). Recurrent TE and clot extension occurred in three infants (0.9% per 
patient year).
CONCLUSIONS: Preterm infants are more difficult to treat with enoxaparin than 
full term infants. Enoxaparin appears to be an alternative to treatment with 
standard heparin or no treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/fn.88.5.f365
PMCID: PMC1721599
PMID: 12937038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Med Klin (Munich). 2003 Jul 15;98(7):368-76. doi: 10.1007/s00063-003-1265-x.

[Normalization of blood pressure and lipids in patients with diabetes].

[Article in German]

Clemens A(1), Gallwitz B.

Author information:
(1)a_clemens@gmx.de

Especially the macrovascular risk and the reduced life expectancy emphasize that 
besides the optimal glycemic control in diabetes, the associated factors of 
metabolic syndrome, namely hypertension and hyperlipidemia, have to be treated 
with equal intensity. This will minimize additional diseases (e. g., 
atherosclerosis, nephropathy, retinopathy) and take some of the strain from our 
health care system in the long run. This article contains the current guidelines 
for the optimal treatment of hypertension and hyperlipidemia in diabetic 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-003-1265-x
PMID: 12937902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Aug;36(4):303-16. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0132-y.

[A golden age of the elderly? Old age in a historical perspective].

[Article in German]

Luh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Arbeitsbereich Sportgeschichte, Fakultät für Sportwissenschaft, 
Ruhr-Universität Bochum, 44780 Bochum, Germany. Andreas.Luh@ruhr-uni-bochum.de

The subject of the following article is 'old age' of women and men in 
prehistoric times, in the ancient Greek and Roman times, in the Middle Ages, in 
the Age of Enlightenment, in the times of the western industrial civilization 
and finally in the so-called post-modern civilization (in German terms 
"Erlebnisgesellschaft") of the present. There is a double focus on the subject. 
On one hand, the examination deals with the concrete circumstances of living of 
the elderly people. On the other hand, the examination analyzes the images of 
old age and the dominant image of the elderly people in the different times. The 
historical focus shows that old age is no anthropological or biological, 
unchangeable condition. Old age is a social and cultural construction that is 
historically formed and can be changed by society. This statement is valid for 
the number of the elderly in relation to the whole population of a historical 
society, it is valid for the way of every day life of the elderly and it is also 
valid to answer the question, who is an 'old' person. 'Old age' and the 
appearance of 'old age' depends on gender, on sociological items and last but 
not least on individual conditions during the different historical times. 
Dominant and strongly changing images of old age can be seen in all periods of 
human culture, in ancient times, in the Middle Ages and also in modern times. 
These images (negative or positive) depend strongly on the economic 
circumstances and conditions of living. Connected with these analyzed images of 
old age in all former cultures are concrete systems of values that have a 
leading function for the whole society.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0132-y
PMID: 12937936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Jul-Aug;18(4):552-5.

Use of the Frialit-2 Implant System in private practice: a clinical report.

Wheeler S(1).

Author information:
(1)Steve@wheelerdds.com

This retrospective study presents the results of the use of the Frialit-2 System 
in a private practice setting. A total of 802 implants, both threaded and 
press-fit, were placed between February 2, 1996, and March 6, 2002. The overall 
success rate was 97%, and the cumulative survival rate using life table analysis 
was 96.1%. The statistical breakdown and an analysis of the results of the 
treatment of this patient population are presented.

PMID: 12939007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Jul-Aug;18(4):589-93.

Retrospective clinical study of Osseotite implants: zero- to 5-year results.

Garlini G(1), Bianchi C, Chierichetti V, Sigurtà D, Maiorana C, Santoro F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Implants and Periodontology, Dental Clinic, University of 
Milan, Italy. g.garlini@tin.it

PURPOSE: Over the last few years, particular attention has been paid to the 
implant surface and its influence on the formation and maintenance of 
surrounding bone. The surface of Osseotite implants (Implant Innovations) is 
produced by a process of thermal etching, which produces a surface with an 
average roughness that is twice that of machined implants produced by the same 
manufacturer. In addition to reducing osseointegration time, this factor appears 
to favor its maintenance over time. This study presents the results of a 
clinical trial of Osseotite implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Five hundred fifty-five Osseotite implants were placed in 
244 patients over 5 years, between September 1996 and September 2001. The 
average follow-up period from implant placement was 26 months (SD 13.1).
RESULTS: After the first surgical stage, 8 failures were noted in 6 patients. 
Life table analysis showed a cumulative survival rate of 98.5%, but no implant 
was lost after prosthetic loading, with a 100% survival rate both for the 
mandible and for the maxilla. For the prosthetic loading time, only the implants 
with more than 12 months of loading were considered, obtaining an average 
prosthetic loading time of 34 months (SD 9.2). DISCUS SION: The implant survival 
rate after loading was 100% both in the anterior and posterior regions, and no 
difference was noted in relation to the different types of prostheses, or length 
and width of implants.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained in this retrospective study population revealed 
an acceptable survival rate for these implant-supported restorations.

PMID: 12939014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Med. 2002;33(1-4):73-86.

Obesity and cancer.

Abu-Abid S(1), Szold A, Klausner J.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Surgery C, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Centre and the Sackler 
Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel. 
dr_subhi@tasmc.health.gov.il

This article reviews several aspects of the association between obesity and 
cancer. Current perspectives of cancers of the breast, endometrium, colon and 
prostate are described. Obesity is a growing problem in contemporary societies, 
due to the rapid adoption of a modernized lifestyle that results in increased 
carbohydrate and fat-rich dietary intake, reduced physical activity and extended 
life expectancy. More than half of adult Americans are overweight or obese, and 
so is the population of many other countries. There are several definitions for 
the state of obesity. The body mass index (BMI), which measures overall 
adiposity, is universally available, the easiest to determine, and therefore the 
most commonly studied. Anthropometric measurements of subcutaneous fat 
distribution, such as measurement of girth, circumference of the arms, hips and 
thighs, or of skinfolds in various body regions are also often used. They allow 
to categorize the distribution of subcutaneous fat into android and gynoid types 
(den Tonkelaar, Seidell et al., 1994; Huang, Willett et al., 1999). The android, 
or abdominal, fat is determined from the waist to hip ratio, and is of 
particular relevance to cancer. Increased body weight and fat are associated 
with high health risks, and therefore body fat distribution and BMI are major 
predictors of obesity associated risks (Calle, Thun et al., 1999; "Overweight, 
obesity, and health risk," Yanovski, 2000). These include diabetes mellitus type 
2, coronary heart disease, sleep apnea and pulmonary dysfunction, stroke, 
diseases of the gallbladder, liver and the musculoskeleton, reproductive 
dysfunction, venous insufficiency, deep vein thrombosis, poor wound healing, and 
more (Pi Sunyer, 1993; "Overweight, obesity, and health risk", Yanovski, 2000). 
All these are associated with increased mortality, especially in individuals 
with other risk factors (Calle, Thun et al., 1999). Cancer is also associated 
with obesity (Garfinkel, 1985), and the present paper attempts to summarize 
current perspectives of this association, especially in cancers of the breast, 
endometrium, colon and prostate.

PMID: 12939106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Neurology. 2003 Aug 26;61(4):445-50. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000081226.51886.5b.

Long-term seizure outcome in patients initially seizure-free after resective 
epilepsy surgery.

Yoon HH(1), Kwon HL, Mattson RH, Spencer DD, Spencer SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06520-8018, USA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2003 Aug 26;61(4):432-3.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the likelihood of and risk factors for seizure recurrence 
in patients initially seizure-free after resective surgery for intractable 
epilepsy.
METHODS: One hundred seventy-five patients who underwent lobectomy between 1972 
and 1992 and were seizure-free during the first postoperative year were 
retrospectively studied. Outcome was measured by relapse risk, presence of auras 
in otherwise seizure-free patients, and seizure frequency among relapsers. 
Factors significant in bivariate or Kaplan-Meier analysis or considered 
potentially predictive a priori were included in multivariate models.
RESULTS: Of the 175 patients (mean follow-up 8.4 years), 63% never relapsed. The 
likelihood of being seizure-free was 83 +/- 6% 3 years after surgery, 72 +/- 7% 
after 5 years, and 56 +/- 9% after 10 years. After adjusting for age at surgery, 
duration of preoperative epilepsy, and resection site, normal pathology was 
associated with increased risk of relapse compared to mesial temporal sclerosis 
or other pathology (p = 0.036; hazard ratio [HR] 2.38; 95% CI 1.06 to 5.34). 
Among patients otherwise seizure-free, preoperative illness of > or =20 years 
was associated with increased risk of postoperative auras (p = 0.040; HR 3.55; 
95% CI 1.06 to 11.90). Among relapsers, 51% experienced one or fewer seizures 
per year. Normal pathology and earlier relapse were associated with higher 
postoperative seizure frequency.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients seizure-free during the first year after resective 
epilepsy surgery, the likelihood of remaining seizure-free declined to 56% over 
10 years, but half of patients who relapsed had at most one seizure per year. 
Longer preoperative illness and normal pathology predicted poorer outcome.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000081226.51886.5b
PMID: 12939415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Neurology. 2003 Aug 26;61(4):456-64. doi: 10.1212/wnl.61.4.456.

A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of topiramate in amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Cudkowicz ME(1), Shefner JM, Schoenfeld DA, Brown RH Jr, Johnson H, Qureshi M, 
Jacobs M, Rothstein JD, Appel SH, Pascuzzi RM, Heiman-Patterson TD, Donofrio PD, 
David WS, Russell JA, Tandan R, Pioro EP, Felice KJ, Rosenfeld J, Mandler RN, 
Sachs GM, Bradley WG, Raynor EM, Baquis GD, Belsh JM, Novella S, Goldstein J, 
Hulihan J; Northeast ALS Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Clinical Trials Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. mcudkowicz@partners.org

Comment in
    Neurology. 2003 Aug 26;61(4):434-5.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if long-term topiramate therapy is safe and slows 
disease progression in patients with ALS.
METHODS: A double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter randomized clinical 
trial was conducted. Participants with ALS (n = 296) were randomized (2:1) to 
receive topiramate (maximum tolerated dose up to 800 mg/day) or placebo for 12 
months. The primary outcome measure was the rate of change in upper extremity 
motor function as measured by the maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) 
strength of eight arm muscle groups. Secondary endpoints included safety and the 
rate of decline of forced vital capacity (FVC), grip strength, ALS functional 
rating scale (ALSFRS), and survival.
RESULTS: Patients treated with topiramate showed a faster decrease in arm 
strength (33.3%) during 12 months (0.0997 vs 0.0748 unit decline/month, p = 
0.012). Topiramate did not significantly alter the decline in FVC and ALSFRS or 
affect survival. Topiramate was associated with an increased frequency of 
anorexia, depression, diarrhea, ecchymosis, nausea, kidney calculus, 
paresthesia, taste perversion, thinking abnormalities, weight loss, and abnormal 
blood clotting (pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis).
CONCLUSIONS: At the dose studied, topiramate did not have a beneficial effect 
for patients with ALS. High-dose topiramate treatment was associated with a 
faster rate of decline in muscle strength as measured by MVIC and with an 
increased risk for several adverse events in patients with ALS. Given the lack 
of efficacy and large number of adverse effects, further studies of topiramate 
at a dose of 800 mg or maximum tolerated dose up to 800 mg/day are not 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.61.4.456
PMID: 12939417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Rev Med Liege. 2003 May;58(5):310-3.

[Cancer screening and early diagnosis. Why? How? Where? Which ones? At what 
cost?].

[Article in French]

Castronovo V(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Recherche sur les Métastases, Centre de Recherche en 
Cancérologie Expérimentale, Université de Liège. vcastronovo@ulg.ac.be

Cancer is fighting with cardiovascular diseases for the first place as the 
number one killer of humans living in industrialized countries. Several factors 
contribute to the high incidence of cancers. The spectacular increase in life 
expectancy of individuals living in these areas is certainly one of the major 
causes that explain the steady rise of the number of patients suffering and 
dying from cancer. For most cancers, when the issue is fatal, it is usually 
after a long morbidity period often very difficult for the patient and with 
heavy public health consequences. Thus, a major challenge that the health 
professionals are facing is the reduction of malignant disease incidence. 
Primary prevention would be certainly the most successful strategy. However, its 
implementation is of extreme difficulty. Secondary prevention, non-exclusive to 
the primary one, represents probably the best approach to decrease morbidity and 
mortality linked to these diseases. Screening and early diagnosis are the two 
axes of such a strategy. The first one concerns the detection of a malignant 
lesion in an asymptomatic patient. Early diagnosis implies to consider with 
attention and explore any signs or symptoms that can be easily missed by the 
patient or the doctor and, hence, could be the first indication of a progressing 
cancer. The impact of cancer screening on the mortality rate due to cancer is 
still the subject of intense debates, while the efficacy of early diagnosis is 
unanimously recognized. Still, it is cancer screening that is the center of most 
attentions....

PMID: 12940121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Eur J Neurol. 2003 Sep;10(5):471-7. doi: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.2003.00682.x.

The burden of brain diseases in Europe.

Olesen J(1), Leonardi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Glostrup University Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark. 
jeol@glostruphosp.kbhamt.dk

The burden [as defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO)] of brain diseases 
(neurological, neurosurgical and psychiatric diseases together) is very high and 
yet resources spent on these diseases are not necessarily commensurate with the 
extent of this burden. However, hard data on the burden of brain diseases in 
Europe have not previously been easily accessible. The Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) 1990 study conducted jointly by the WHO, Harvard University and the World 
Bank provided new measures that are now becoming universally accepted and have 
been used also in a repeat study: The GBD 2000. The key parameter of the study 
is disability adjusted life years (DALY), which is the sum of years of life lost 
(YLL) caused by premature death and years of life lived with disability (YLD). 
In the present report, data from the GBD 2000 study and from the World Health 
Report 2001 on brain diseases is extracted for the territory of Europe. This 
territory corresponds roughly to the membership countries of the European 
Federation of Neurological Societies. The WHO's Report has a category called 
neuropsychiatric diseases, which comprises the majority but not all the brain 
diseases. In order to gather all brain diseases, stroke, meningitis, half of the 
burden of injuries and half of the burden of congenital abnormalities are added. 
Throughout Europe, 23% of the years of healthy life is lost and 50% of YLD are 
caused by brain diseases. Regarding the key summary measure of lost health, 
DALY, 35% are because of brain diseases. The fact that approximately one-third 
of all burden of disease is caused by brain diseases should have an impact on 
resource allocation to teaching, reasearch, health care and prevention. Although 
other factors are also of importance, it seems reasonable that one-third of the 
curriculum at medical school should deal with the brain and that one-third of 
life science funding should go to basic and clinical neuroscience. In addition, 
resource allocation to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of brain diseases 
should be increased to approach, at least, one-third of health care expenditure. 
With the present data on hand, neurologists, neurosurgeons, psychiatrists, 
patient organizations and basic neuroscientists have a better possibility to 
increase the focus on the brain.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.2003.00682.x
PMID: 12940825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Anti Aging Med. 2003 Spring;6(1):11-20. doi: 10.1089/109454503765361542.

Early programming of adult longevity: demographic and experimental studies.

Vaiserman AM(1), Voitenko VP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Mathematical Modeling of Aging Processes, Institute of 
Gerontology, Kiev, Ukraine. vaiserman@geront.kiev.ua

It is supposed that longevity might be programmed by early life exposures. We 
had carried out demographic and experimental researches for the examination of 
the possibility of longevity programming. In demographic study, the recorded 
deaths in Kiev (Ukraine) between 1990 and 2000 (51,503 men and 50,131 women) 
were used. Age at death was strongly associated with month of birth. Subjects 
born in the middle of year (April-July) had the lowest longevity. Increasing 
longevity was observed with each successive birth-month in the second half of 
the year, with a peak longevity for births in December. To research of the 
mechanisms responsible for longevity programming, study of adult D. melanogaster 
DNA repair capacity after irradiation at the egg stage was carried out, using 
marker such as DNA strand breaks. Insects irradiated in low doses (0.50 and 0.75 
Gy) had extended life span and increased stability to S1 nuclease treatment. The 
probable explanation of observed postponed effects might be the long-term 
modulation of certain (possibly repair) genes activity. We hypothesize that 
life-extending effects of different anti-aging treatments might be a consequence 
of their unspecific (hormetic) action, rather then specific (geroprotector) 
action on the some aging-related processes, and induction an "transcriptional 
reprogramming" may be a key mechanism of the longevity programming and 
artificial life extension.

DOI: 10.1089/109454503765361542
PMID: 12941179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Cancer Res. 2003 Aug 15;63(16):4854-61.

A P53-dependent, telomere-independent proliferative life span barrier in human 
astrocytes consistent with the molecular genetics of glioma development.

Evans RJ(1), Wyllie FS, Wynford-Thomas D, Kipling D, Jones CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Wales College of Medicine, Heath Park, 
Cardiff CF14 4XN, United Kingdom.

An in vitro model, based on normal (primary) human astrocytes (NHAs), was used 
to investigate the nature of the selection pressures for events that occur 
during the progression of astrocyte-derived tumors and, in particular, the 
potential role of proliferative life span barriers (PLBs). As with fibroblasts, 
NHAs senesced with elevated p21(WAF1) and senescence-associated 
beta-galactosidase activities. Unlike fibroblasts, replicative senescence (M1) 
occurred much earlier, after approximately 20 pd and was not bypassed by hTERT 
expression. Abrogation of p53 function, by expression of human papillomavirus 
type 16 E6, led to an extension of life span, implying that replicative 
senescence in NHAs was p53-dependent but telomere-independent. human 
papillomavirus type16 E6 expression promoted additional growth of up to 12 pd, 
until a second telomere-independent PLB (termed M(INT)) was imposed associated 
with elevated p16(INK4A) levels. A proportion of cells escaped from M(INT) lost 
p16(INK4A) expression and achieved approximately an additional 25 pd until a 
crisis-like third PLB (M2) was reached. Expression of hTERT in post-M(INT) cells 
allowed these cells to become immortal and bypass this third PLB. The in vitro 
PLBs appear, in order of occurrence, dependent upon p53, p16(INK4A), and 
telomere erosion, a situation that mirrors an equivalent order of mutational 
events during tumor progression in vivo. This study describes a model that 
provides a plausible explanation for the selective pressures driving mutational 
events in this tumor type and provides direct evidence of a p53-dependent, 
telomere-independent PLB.

PMID: 12941806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Microsurgery. 2003;23(4):287-95. doi: 10.1002/micr.10138.

Cost-utility analysis comparing free and pedicled TRAM flap for breast 
reconstruction.

Thoma A(1), Khuthaila D, Rockwell G, Veltri K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, St. 
Joseph's Healthcare, Surgical Outcomes Research Centre and McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. athoma@mcmaster.ca

The purpose of this study was to compare the free TRAM to the unipedicled TRAM 
flap in postmastectomy reconstruction, using a cost-utility analysis. A decision 
analytic model was used for this study. Medical costs associated with the two 
techniques were estimated from the Ontario Ministry of Health Schedule of 
Benefits (1998). Hospital costs were obtained from St. Joseph's Healthcare, a 
university hospital in Hamilton, Ontario. Utilities were obtained from 33 
"experts" across Canada and then converted into quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). The probabilities of various health states associated with unipedicled 
and free TRAM flaps were obtained by reviewing several key articles. The free 
TRAM flap was more costly than the unipedicled TRAM flap, but it provided more 
QALYs. The baseline incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) was $5,113.73/QALY, 
favoring adoption of the free TRAM flap. This study showed that the free TRAM 
flap is a cost-effective procedure for postmastectomy reconstruction in the 
Canadian healthcare system.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc. MICROSURGERY 23:287-295 2003

DOI: 10.1002/micr.10138
PMID: 12942517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Usp Fiziol Nauk. 2003 Jul-Sep;34(3):3-20.

[Neuroimmunoendocrine interaction in the pathogenesis of chronic heart failure].

[Article in Russian]

Poskrebysheva AS(1), Grinevich VV, Smurova IuV, Shostak NA, Akmaev IG.

Author information:
(1)Russian State Medical University, Russian Research Endocrinology Center RAMS, 
Institute of General Pathology and Pathological Physiology RAMS, Moscow.

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a common complication of patients with heart 
dysfunction and of those suffering from various chronic illnesses. Although 
recently developed therapies revolutionized treatment of CHF, life expectancy of 
the survivors is still significantly reduced. Proposed neurohoromonal approach 
in CHF treatment is on the whole rather unsatisfactory. Recently the interest of 
clinical investigators has been focused on immune mechanisms in the pathogenesis 
of CHF. In this review we tried to summarize data concerning contribution of 
inflammatory cytokines to pathogenesis of CHF. The source and site of action of 
pro- and antiinflammatory cytokines and number of interactions among cytokines 
and neuroendocrine systems under CHF are considered. Finally we discuss novel 
therapies managing correction of both immune and neurohormonal status of the 
patient.

PMID: 12942758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

