
350. Health Care Manag Sci. 2003 Aug;6(3):165-74. doi: 10.1023/a:1024488007043.

Cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening in the average risk 
population.

Leshno M(1), Halpern Z, Arber N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Management and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, 
Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. leshnom@post.tau.ac.il

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer death in North America and 
in Israel. Risk of CRC increases exponentially with age starting at the age of 
50 years. Therefore, people older than 50 years are being considered as an 
average risk population for CRC. The objective of this study was to obtain an 
improved assessment of the cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for CRC in 
the average risk population by using a more accurate technique, namely the 
Partially Observed Markov Decision Process (POMDP). We conducted a 
cost-effectiveness analysis within the specific probability rates and costs in 
Israel. This study revealed that it is highly cost-effective to screen 
average-risk asymptomatic individuals.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024488007043
PMID: 12943152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Am J Cardiol. 2003 Sep 1;92(5):631-3. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(03)00742-2.

Economic implications of nesiritide versus dobutamine in the treatment of 
patients with acutely decompensated congestive heart failure.

de Lissovoy G(1), Stier DM, Ciesla G, Munger M, Burger AJ.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Inc, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA. 
delissovoy@medtap.com

Pooled data from trials comparing nesiritide with dobutamine for treatment of 
acute decompensated congestive heart failure were combined with national 
hospital cost data in an economic model. Results indicate that the acquisition 
cost of nesiritide is fully offset by decreased hospital costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(03)00742-2
PMID: 12943895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. N Engl J Med. 2003 Aug 28;349(9):868-74. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa035507.

Shattuck lecture--clinical research to clinical practice--lost in translation?

Lenfant C(1).

Author information:
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Md 20892, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Dec 4;349(23):2273-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Dec 4;349(23):2273-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Dec 4;349(23):2273-4.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa035507
PMID: 12944573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Tsitol Genet. 2003 May-Jun;37(3):41-8.

[Molecular and cellular aspects of radiation hormesis in Drosophila 
melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Vaĭserman AM, Litoshenko AIa, Kvitnitskaia-Ryzhova TIu, Koshel' NM, Mozzhukhina 
TG, Mikhal'skiĭ SA, Voĭtenko VP.

The long-term effects of the R-irradiation of D. melanogaster at the 1-hour egg 
stage with the dosages of 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 Gy were 
investigated. DNA samples were isolated from whole 5-6-days adult males. The 
aliquots of DNA were digested by S1-nuclease. Preimaginal stage lethality 
increased with irradiation dose increasing. At the same time, decrease in 
imaginal LS (life span) was observed after irradiation with the greatest dose (4 
Gy) only. Moreover, hormesis by LS has revealed: in males irradiation with 0.25, 
0.75 and 1 Gy increased the mean LS, and with 0.25 and 0.5 Gy caused the maximum 
LS; in females exposures with 0.25, 0.75 and 2 Gy increased the maximum LS. The 
densitometric assay of DNA electrophoregrams showed decrease by 39.2% of the 
part of high-molecular-weight DNA in control as a result of S1-nuclease action. 
Samples of DNA from the irradiated flies were more stable to enzyme action. The 
higher stability of DNA originated from the irradiated flies could be the result 
of reparation system activation. Ultrastructural changes induced at the egg 
stage by irradiation at the dose of 0.75 Gy testify the increased 
transcriptional activity of the brain cells.

PMID: 12945182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Chemosphere. 2003 Oct;53(4):277-84. doi: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00053-5.

Ranking the risks of 12 major environmental pollutants that occur in Japan.

Gamo M(1), Oka T, Nakanishi J.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Chemical Risk Management, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology, Onogawa 16-1, AIST West, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8569, Japan. masashi-gamo@aist.go.jp

The risks posed by 12 major environmental pollutants in Japan were evaluated and 
ranked on the same scale. These were arsenic, benzene, cadmium, chlordane, 
chlorpyrifos, DDTs, dioxins, formaldehyde, methylmercury, radon, toluene, and 
xylenes. Approximately half of these substances are carcinogenic while the other 
half are non-carcinogenic. We applied a risk estimation framework that can 
evaluate both cancer and non-cancer risks on the same scale. The framework 
consists of two parts: the calculation of the probability of adverse health 
effects, and the evaluation of the severity of the effects. In order to 
calculate the probability of adverse health effects, individual variabilities in 
exposure level, metabolizing rate, and sensitivity were taken into account. Loss 
of life expectancy (LLE; days) was used as a measure of severity of the adverse 
health effects and of the resulting risk level. The risk level of the substances 
in terms of LLE ranged from approximately 0.01 to 10 days. The risks from radon 
and formaldehyde were found to be the highest, while those from DDT and 
chlordane were the lowest. Our findings also suggested that the risk levels 
posed by non-carcinogenic substances were comparable to those posed by 
carcinogenic substances.

DOI: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00053-5
PMID: 12946386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Chemosphere. 2003 Oct;53(4):291-9. doi: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00054-7.

The cost-effectiveness of life-saving interventions in Japan. Do chemical 
regulations cost too much?

Kishimoto A(1), Oka T, Nakanishi J.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Chemical Risk Management, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology, 16-1 Onogawa, AIST West, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8569, Japan. kishimoto-atsuo@aist.go.jp

This paper compares the cost-effectiveness of life-saving interventions in 
Japan, based on information collected from the health, safety and environmental 
literature. More than 50 life-saving interventions are analyzed. 
Cost-effectiveness is defined as the cost per life-year saved or as the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year saved. Finding a large cost-effectiveness disparity 
between chemical controls and health care intervention, we raise the question of 
whether chemical regulations cost society too much. We point out the limitations 
of this study and propose a way to improve the incorporation of morbidity 
effects in cost-effectiveness analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00054-7
PMID: 12946388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Chemosphere. 2003 Oct;53(4):389-98. doi: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00045-6.

Environmental risk evaluation of chemicals: achievements of the project and 
seeds for future--development of metrics for evaluating risks.

Nakanishi J(1), Gamo M, Iwasa Y, Tanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Chemical Risk Management, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology, Onogawa 16-1, AIST West, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8569, Japan. junko.nakanishi@nifty.com

Achievements of the research project entitled "Establishment of a scientific 
framework for the management of toxicity of chemicals based on environmental 
risk-benefit analysis" supported by the JST were introduced and reviewed, 
focusing on the development of the methodology for estimating risks; human 
health risks and ecological risks. The usefulness of loss of life expectancy as 
a metric for evaluating cancer and noncancer risks was demonstrated. To evaluate 
ecological risks, three metrics, 1/T, logT and T, developed based on the mean 
extinction time (T) of species were proposed. Then, their implication and 
feasibility were examined in terms of what ecological system should be conserved 
and how easily people can understand the implications of metrics. Protocols for 
estimating human health risks and ecological risks are illustrated.

DOI: 10.1016/S0045-6535(03)00045-6
PMID: 12946396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Health Econ. 2003 Sep;22(5):731-45. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00024-9.

The integration of claims to health-care: a programming approach.

Anand P(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Discipline, Faculty of Social Sciences, The Open University, Walton 
Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, UK. p.anand@open.ac.uk

The paper contributes to the use of social choice and welfare theory in health 
economics by developing and applying the integration of claims framework to 
health-care rationing. Related to Sen's critique of neo-classical welfare 
economics, the integration of claims framework recognises three primitive 
sources of claim: consequences, deontology and procedures. A taxonomy is 
presented with the aid of which it is shown that social welfare functions 
reflecting these claims individually or together, can be specified. Some of the 
resulting social choice rules can be regarded as generalisations of 
health-maximisation and all have normative justifications, though the 
justifications may not be universally acceptable. The paper shows how non-linear 
programming can be used to operationalise such choice rules and illustrates 
their differential impacts on the optimal provision of health-care. Following 
discussion of relations to the capabilities framework and the context in which 
rationing occurs, the paper concludes that the integration of claims provides a 
viable framework for modelling health-care rationing that is technically 
rigorous, general and tractable, as well as being consistent with relevant moral 
considerations and citizen preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00024-9
PMID: 12946456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Health Econ. 2003 Sep;22(5):805-20. doi: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00045-6.

The effect of comorbidities on treatment decisions.

Bleichrodt H(1), Crainich D, Eeckhoudt L.

Author information:
(1)iMTA/iBMG, Erasmus University, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. bleichrodt@bmg.eur.nl

Medical decision analyses typically focus on one disease, that is, on one source 
of risk. In many medical decisions multiple sources of risk co-exist, however. 
This paper analyzes the effect of such comorbidities on treatment decisions. The 
effect of comorbidities on treatment decisions depends primarily on the way in 
which the patient's attitude to health status risks varies with duration. In the 
QALY model comorbidities do not affect treatment decisions. This property of the 
QALY model can be used as a diagnostic test of its descriptive and prescriptive 
validity.

DOI: 10.1016/S0167-6296(03)00045-6
PMID: 12946460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Clin Ther. 2003 Jul;25(7):2102-19. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(03)80208-4.

The cost-effectiveness of irbesartan in the treatment of hypertensive patients 
with type 2 diabetic nephropathy.

Rodby RA(1), Chiou CF, Borenstein J, Smitten A, Sengupta N, Palmer AJ, Roze S, 
Annemans L, Simon TA, Chen RS, Lewis EJ; Collaborative Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA. 
rrodby@mindsring.com

BACKGROUND: End-stage renal disease (ESRD)-related health care costs are 
substantial. Improving clinical outcomes in patients at risk of progression to 
ESRD could lead to considerable health care savings.
OBJECTIVE: We estimated the cost-effectiveness of irbesartan compared with 
placebo or amlodipine in the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, hypertension, and overt nephropathy.
METHODS: Three treatments for hypertension patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus and nephropathy were assessed: (1) irbesartan, (2) amlodipine, and (3) 
placebo. A Markov model was developed based on primary data from the Irbesartan 
in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial and the United States Renal Data System. Projected 
survival and costs were compared for each treatment at 3-, 10-, and 25-year time 
horizons. Different assumptions of treatment benefits and costs were tested with 
use of sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: At 10 and 25 years, the model projected irbesartan to be both the least 
costly and most effective (ie, demonstrating a survival advantage) strategy. At 
25

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(03)80208-4
PMID: 12946554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Clin Oncol. 2003 Sep 1;21(17):3318-27. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2003.09.034.

Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer?

Alibhai SM(1), Naglie G, Nam R, Trachtenberg J, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, Room ENG-233, 200 Elizabeth St, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada M5G 2C4. shabbir.alibhai@uhn.on.ca.

PURPOSE: Prior decision-analytic models are based on outdated or suboptimal 
efficacy, patient preference, and comorbidity data. We estimated life expectancy 
(LE) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) associated with available 
treatments for localized prostate cancer in men aged >/= 65 years, adjusting for 
Gleason score, patient preferences, and comorbidity.
METHODS: We evaluated three treatments, using a decision-analytic Markov model: 
radical prostatectomy (RP), external beam radiotherapy (EBRT), and watchful 
waiting (WW). Rates of treatment complications and pretreatment incontinence and 
impotence were derived from published studies. We estimated treatment efficacy 
using three data sources: cancer registry cohort data, pooled case series, and 
modern radiotherapy studies. Utilities were obtained from 141 prostate cancer 
patients and from published studies.
RESULTS: For men with well-differentiated tumors and few comorbidities, 
potentially curative therapy (RP or EBRT) prolonged LE up to age 75 years but 
did not improve QALE at any age. For moderately differentiated cancers, 
potentially curative therapy resulted in LE and QALE gains up to age 75 years. 
For poorly differentiated disease, potentially curative therapy resulted in LE 
and QALE gains up to age 80 years. Benefits of potentially curative therapy were 
restricted to men with no worse than mild comorbidity. When cohort and pooled 
case series data were used, RP was preferred over EBRT in all groups but was 
comparable to modern radiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Potentially curative therapy results in significantly improved LE 
and QALE for older men with few comorbidities and moderately or poorly 
differentiated localized prostate cancer. Age should not be a barrier to 
treatment in this group.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2003.09.034
PMID: 12947068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2003 Sep;57 Suppl 1:S22-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1601805.

Omega-3 fatty acids in the prevention and control of cardiovascular disease.

Mata López P(1), Ortega RM.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Lípidos, Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid, Spain.

Cardiovascular disease is one of the main causes of death in developed 
countries. Several factors are involved in its appearance and progress, among 
which nutrition enjoys a certain protagonism. Until recently, the dietetic 
criteria for preventing and controlling cardiovascular disease were mainly 
restrictive (at least in terms of energy and fat intake), but such advice is 
difficult to follow, and without careful monitoring can lead to deficiencies 
that might negatively affect quality of life and perhaps even life expectancy. 
Several investigations show that some components of the lipid fraction of the 
diet, such as omega-3 fatty acids, are beneficial with respect to cardiovascular 
disease, and these have become the centre of much attention. This paper reviews 
the results of some of these studies and evaluates the benefit of these fatty 
acids in the prevention of coronary heart disease. The sources of omega-3 fatty 
acids, their recommended consumption, possible mechanisms of action and 
potential adverse effects are discussed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1601805
PMID: 12947447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Clin Neurosci. 2003 Sep;10(5):579-83. doi: 10.1016/s0967-5868(03)00064-x.

Treatment of neuroblastoma with intraspinal extensions.

Yiin JJ(1), Chang CS, Jan YJ, Wang YC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, ROC, 
Taichung, Taiwan. yiin_jackson@yahoo.com

Neuroblastoma is the most common malignant cause of spinal compression in the 
paediatric population. Chemotherapy is commonly considered as the first-line 
treatment for these patients. The role of neurosurgical decompression and 
radiotherapy are still controversial. Thirteen children diagnosed as having 
neuroblastoma with intraspinal extension were included in this report. All 
patients presented with neurological deficits and were treated with chemotherapy 
initially, after which 3 patients recovered, 4 improved and 6 were aggravated 
into paraplegia. Two of the 6 aggravated patients received emergent laminectomy 
with removal of intraspinal tumour and recovered satisfactorily. Although spread 
of tumour into the spinal canal indicates an advanced disease, aggressive 
treatments such as chemotherapy and surgical resection can often improve 
neurological symptoms and life quality. Neurological decompression is 
recommended for patients with intraspinal neuroblastoma and rapid neurological 
deterioration during chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-5868(03)00064-x
PMID: 12948463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Soc Sci Med. 2003 Nov;57(9):1697-706. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00554-3.

A test of the QALY model when health varies over time.

Spencer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Queen Mary and Westfield College, University of 
London, Mile End Road, E1 4NS London, UK. a.e.spencer@qmul.ac.uk

Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) estimate the utility derived from health 
profiles by taking account of life expectancy and quality of life. In applying 
QALYs to situations where health varies over time, it is usual to assume that we 
can add the utilities from constituent health states. This paper investigates 
the QALY approach to combining health states over time using two tests. The 
first test rejects additive independence, the central assumption of the QALY 
model, for individual respondents. The second test is equivocal. The tests are, 
therefore, unable to conclusively reject the QALY approach to combining health 
states over time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(02)00554-3
PMID: 12948578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nurs Outlook. 2003 Jul-Aug;51(4):178-81. doi: 10.1016/s0029-6554(03)00118-0.

Commentary on: A comparative study of the healthcare delivery systems of Korea 
and Thailand.

Kang DH(1), Buddhirakkul P.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 1530 3rd Street, 
Birmingham, AL 35294-1210, USA.

Comment on
    Nurs Outlook. 2003 May-Jun;51(3):115-9.

The objectives of this study were to compare the health care delivery systems of 
Korea and Thailand and the health status of the people of the 2 countries. To 
analyze the health care delivery system government organization of health care, 
health care personnel, and health insurance programs were examined. The 
population distribution, life expectancy, maternal and infant death rates, cause 
of specific death rates, and health behaviors were examined to determine the 
health status of the 2 populations. From this comparison of the health care 
system and health status of the 2 countries, recommendations are made concerning 
government policy and activation of health care professionals and health workers 
to address the problems that were identified in the study. (Lee C et al. Nurs 
Outlook 2003;51:115-9.)

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-6554(03)00118-0
PMCID: PMC7131012
PMID: 12949478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Liver Int. 2003;23 Suppl 3:66-72. doi: 10.1034/j.1478-3231.23.s.3.5.x.

Economic evaluation and 1-year survival analysis of MARS in patients with 
alcoholic liver disease.

Hessel FP(1), Mitzner SR, Rief J, Guellstorff B, Steiner S, Wasem J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management, University of Essen, Germany. 
franz.hessel@uni-essen.de

Objective of this study was to determine 1-year survival, costs and 
cost-effectiveness of the artificial liver support system Molecular Adsorbent 
Recirculating System (MARS) in patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure 
(ACLF) and an underlying alcoholic liver disease. In a case-control study, 13 
patients treated with MARS were compared to 23 controls of similar age, sex and 
severity of disease. Inpatient hospital costs data were extracted from patients' 
files and hospital's internal costing. Patients and treating GPs were contacted, 
thus determining resource use and survival 1-year after treatment. Mean 1-year 
survival time in MARS group was 261 days and 148 days in controls. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis shows advantages of MARS patients (Logrank: P=0.057). Direct medical 
costs per patient for initial hospital stay and 1-year follow-up from a payer's 
perspective were Euro 18,792 for MARS patients and Euro 9638 for controls. The 
costs per life-year gained are Euro 29,719 (time horizon 1 year). From a 
societal perspective, the numbers are higher (costs per life-year gained: Euro 
79,075), mainly because of the fact that there is no regular reimbursement of 
MARS and therefore intervention costs were not calculated from payer's 
perspective. A trade-off between medical benefit and higher costs has to be 
made, but 1-year results suggest an acceptable cost-effectiveness of MARS. 
Prolonging the time horizon and including indirect costs, which will be done in 
future research, would probably improve cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1478-3231.23.s.3.5.x
PMID: 12950964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Clin Podiatr Med Surg. 2003 Jul;20(3):511-26, x. doi: 
10.1016/S0891-8422(03)00046-6.

Foot deformities, biomechanical and pathomechanical changes associated with 
aging including orthotic considerations, Part II.

Whitney KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Temple University School of Podiatric Medicine, 8th Street, Philadelphia, PA 
19107, USA.

As Americans above the age of 65 have become healthier and remain physically 
active, we are seeing an increase in lower extremity and foot problems. As life 
expectancy has increased in this fastest growing segment of the population, so 
have serious age-related problems such as injuries from falls. Periodic lower 
extremity evaluations and appropriate therapeutic intervention may help to 
prevent many of these serious and debilitating conditions and injuries. An 
important aspect of the treatment plan for older adults may include the use of 
foot orthoses and optimal shoewear.

DOI: 10.1016/S0891-8422(03)00046-6
PMID: 12952051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nurs Times. 2003 Aug 19-25;99(33):44-5.

The psychological needs of patients with chronic respiratory disease.

Lynes D(1), Kelly C.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Studies, Respiratory Education and Training Centre, 
Liverpool.

Recent developments in medical management have improved symptom control and life 
expectancy of patients with chronic respiratory disease (CRD). However, this 
presents new challenges to patients, their relatives and friends, and health 
professionals.

PMID: 12953652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Am Surg. 2003 Aug;69(8):703-9; discussion 709-10.

Short-term predictors and long-term outcome after ruptured abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.

Piper G(1), Patel NA, Chandela S, Benckart DH, Young JC, Collela JJ, Healy DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Allegheny General 
Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Few data exist in regard to long-term and functional outcome after ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (rAAA) repair. The present study provides such 
follow-up and defines the impact of variables used to grade resuscitation 
efforts [base deficit (BD) and core temperature (cT)]. One hundred forty-seven 
patients presenting with rAAA were retrospectively reviewed. Overall 
perioperative mortality was 35 per cent (51/147) and mean age was 72 years. 
Survival data were available for 99 per cent of patients with a mean and median 
follow-up of 45 months. Life table analysis revealed one-, 2-, and 5-year 
survival to be 81, 75, and 58 per cent, respectively. Eighty-three per cent of 
patients reported a quality of life equal to that of their preoperative status. 
Both initial cT (P = 0.02) and BD (P = 0.03) were significantly associated with 
perioperative mortality. Using a logistic regression model cT remained a 
significant factor (P = 0.006) associated with survival. Smoking, hypertension, 
diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, mode of transportation, and 
surgeon's training were not significant. Despite the advanced age of the present 
cohort, acceptable perioperative mortality and long-term survival rates were 
attained. The majority of patients resumed a lifestyle comparable to that of 
their preoperative state; therefore, long-term longitudinal follow-up suggests 
that aggressive management with rapid correction of BD and cT results in 
excellent functional outcome.

PMID: 12953829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Sep;38(9):947-54. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00161-x.

Life extension via dietary restriction is independent of the Ins/IGF-1 
signalling pathway in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Houthoofd K(1), Braeckman BP, Johnson TE, Vanfleteren JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, KL Ledeganckstraat 35, B-9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.

Dietary restriction (DR) increases life span in a wide variety of animals. In 
Caenorhabditis elegans both reduced bacterial concentration (BDR) and culture on 
non-bacterial, semi-defined, axenic food sources (ADR) increased longevity. An 
Ins/IGF-1-like (IIF) signalling pathway has been shown to specify life span in 
C. elegans and it has been suggested that this IIF signalling pathway mediates 
life extension via DR. We show that both ADR and BDR act independently with 
mutations in the IIF pathway to increase longevity, stress resistance, and 
specific activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase. Moreover, these 
effects are not dependent on daf-16, which is known to suppress other mutations 
that act through the IIF pathway. We conclude that DR extends life span by 
mechanisms distinct from those specified by the IIF pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00161-x
PMID: 12954481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Urol Oncol. 2003 Jul-Aug;21(4):245-54. doi: 10.1016/s1078-1439(03)00016-4.

The timing of hormone therapy for men with asymptomatic advanced prostate 
cancer.

Messing E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. 
edward_messing@urmc.rochester.edu

The most appropriate time to introduce hormonal therapy for patients with 
advanced prostate cancer is a contentious issue. Recent prospective studies 
comparing immediate and deferred hormonal therapy (medical or surgical 
castration) on survival outcome are reviewed with the aim of redefining the most 
appropriate time to initiate hormonal therapy for individual patients. The 
evidence supports the use of immediate hormonal therapy in previously untreated 
patients with advanced disease (M1) and also the use of adjuvant hormonal 
therapy after radical prostatectomy and lymphadenectomy for node-positive (but 
clinically localized) disease. Immediate hormonal therapy may also be 
advantageous in advanced local/regional disease when it is the primary treatment 
contemplated (i.e., without any definitive curative therapy to the prostate), 
although not all studies show this. Adjuvant hormonal therapy has significantly 
improved survival in some studies in the radiotherapy setting; the lack of 
statistically significant benefits in other studies may be a result of the 
timing of hormonal therapy in relation to the administration of external beam 
irradiation. Decisions on the immediate initiation of hormonal therapy should 
also take into account the patient's life expectancy and the side effects and 
long-term complications of androgen deprivation therapy. Recent epidemiological 
studies indicate that prostate cancer mortality has fallen in the USA. This 
decline in prostate cancer mortality is likely to be multifactorial with early 
application of hormonal therapy being one potential contributory factor. It is 
recommended that after an assessment of their disease risk, patients should be 
informed about the benefits and side effects of all potential treatment options 
and allowed to make an informed choice about their treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-1439(03)00016-4
PMID: 12954493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Emerg Med J. 2003 Sep;20(5):429-33. doi: 10.1136/emj.20.5.429.

Cost effectiveness of diagnostic strategies for patients with acute, 
undifferentiated chest pain.

Goodacre S(1), Calvert N.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, Sheffield University, UK. 
s.goodacre@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Patients presenting to hospital with acute, undifferentiated chest 
pain have a low, but important, risk of significant myocardial ischaemia. 
Potential diagnostic strategies for patients with acute, undifferentiated chest 
pain vary from low cost, poor effectiveness (discharging all home) to high cost, 
high effectiveness (admission and intensive investigation). This paper aimed to 
estimate the relative cost effectiveness of these strategies.
METHODS: Decision analysis modelling was used to measure the incremental cost 
per quality adjusted year of life (QALY) gained for five potential strategies to 
diagnose acute undifferentiated chest pain, compared with the next most 
effective strategy, or a baseline strategy of discharging all patients home 
without further testing.
RESULTS: Cardiac enzyme testing alone costs pound 17 432/QALY compared with 
discharge without testing. Adding two to six hours of observation and repeat 
enzyme testing costs an additional pound 18 567/QALY. Adding exercise testing to 
this strategy costs pound 28 553/QALY. A strategy of overnight admission, 
enzyme, and exercise testing has an incremental cost of pound 120 369/QALY, 
while a strategy consisting of overnight admission without exercise testing is 
subject to extended dominance. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the results 
are sensitive to variations in the direct costs of running each strategy and to 
variation in assumptions regarding the effect of diagnostic testing upon quality 
of life of those with non-cardiac disease.
CONCLUSION: Observation based strategies incur similar costs per QALY to 
presently funded interventions for coronary heart disease, while strategies 
requiring hospital admission may be prohibitively poor value for money. 
Validation of the true costs and effects of observation based strategies is 
essential before widespread implementation.

DOI: 10.1136/emj.20.5.429
PMCID: PMC1726206
PMID: 12954681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. HNO. 2003 Sep;51(9):733-6. doi: 10.1007/s00106-002-0800-z. Epub 2003 Apr 11.

[Malignant schwannoma of the trachea].

[Article in German]

Neumann K(1), Amm S, Krause U, Berghaus A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen- und Ohrenheilkunde, Kopf- und 
Halschirurgie, Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg. 
kerstin.neumann@medizin.uni-halle.de

Malignant schwannoma of the trachea is a rarity among the infrequent neurogenic 
tumours of the cervical region. Only individual cases have been described in the 
literature to date. A 30-year-old patient came to us with acute dyspnoea. A 
bronchoscopy showed a polypoid-stemmed tumour, which was removed using a loop. 
Histologically, it was a malignant neurogenic tumour of a low-grade schwannoma 
nature. A tracheal segment resection was carried out to remove the tumour 
completely. Six years after the operation, the patient was still 
recurrence-free. The prognosis depends on whether a high or low grade malignant 
schwannoma is present. The histological grading of the neurogenic peripheral 
neurilemmoma is made depending on a number of histological parameters and is 
often rather difficult. Specialists agree that only the radical surgical removal 
of the tumour might lead to patient's recovery. Adjuvant measures like chemo- or 
radiotherapy do not significantly prolong the life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-002-0800-z
PMID: 12955252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Hautarzt. 2003 Sep;54(9):804-8. doi: 10.1007/s00105-003-0586-2.

[Demographic changes in Germany. Consequences in health policy and dermatology].

[Article in German]

Diepgen TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Klinische Sozialmedizin mit Schwerpunkt Gesundheitssystemforschung, 
Berufs- und Umweltdermatologie des Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg. 
thomas.diepgen@med.uni-heidelberg.de

During the last century the median life expectancy increased by about 30 years 
in Germany. According to recent prognoses, this trend will continue over the 
next decades. Not only the number of people older than 60 years but also its 
percentage within the population has and will continue to increase dramatically. 
This has important socio-economic, political and health-economic consequences. 
The increasingly older population has an important impact on dermatology. The 
incidence of many skin diseases increases with age because of long-term exposure 
to exogenous factors such as UV irradiation. Aging processes especially affect 
the skin. Last not least, the distinction between skin disease and "cosmetic" 
skin problems has changed in the last decades in our society. Even a small 
reduction in the threshold of what the public and health professionals regard as 
a skin complaint worthy of medical attention could lead to a large increase in 
future dermatology service requirements. The demographic changes in our society 
are becoming an important issue in dermatological health care research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-003-0586-2
PMID: 12955255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2004 Jan;378(2):232-40. doi: 10.1007/s00216-003-2175-8.
Epub  2003 Sep 3.

Overcoming spectral overlap in isotopic analysis via single- and multi-collector 
ICP-mass spectrometry.

Vanhaecke F(1), Moens L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry, Ghent University, Institute for Nuclear 
Sciences, Proeftuinstraat 86, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. frank.vanhaecke@ugent.be

For isotope ratio applications where an internal isotope ratio precision 
>0.05-0.1% relative standard deviation suffices, single-collector inductively 
coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) is fit-for-purpose, but for detecting 
more subtle variations in the natural isotopic composition of a target element, 
only multi-collector ICPMS (MC-ICPMS) can compete with thermal ionization mass 
spectrometry (TIMS). While as a result of the extensive sample preparation 
(analyte isolation) preceding TIMS and the "softer" ionization in vacuum, 
spectral interferences only seldom occur with this technique, their occurrence 
is recognized to be the most important drawback of ICPMS. This paper discusses 
high mass resolution and chemical resolution in a collision or dynamic reaction 
cell as powerful and versatile means to overcome spectral overlap and 
illustrates how their introduction has led to a substantial extension of the 
application range of ICPMS for isotope ratio applications. High mass resolution 
is the most elegant and straightforward way to overcome the problem of spectral 
overlap. Offering the possibility to operate the mass analyzer at a higher mass 
resolution, while at the same time preserving the flat-topped or trapezoidal 
peak shape required for highly precise isotope ratio measurements, was a 
challenge for the manufacturers of MC-ICPMS instrumentation. It will be 
discussed how these apparently contradicting requirements could be fulfilled 
simultaneously and an overview of the current situation will be given. Chemical 
resolution in a collision or dynamic reaction cell is an alternative to high 
mass resolution for overcoming spectral overlap. Real-life examples will be 
given to illustrate how also this approach can be used to advantage in isotope 
ratio work. Despite the greater flexibility and straightforwardness of high mass 
resolution, some situations will be discussed where chemical resolution is to be 
preferred. Finally, some desires as to future instrumentation are formulated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-003-2175-8
PMID: 12955394


375. Clin Auton Res. 2003 Aug;13(4):286-92. doi: 10.1007/s10286-003-0117-3.

A home-based resistance-training program using elastic bands for elderly 
patients with orthostatic hypotension.

Zion AS(1), De Meersman R, Diamond BE, Bloomfield DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Medicine College of Physicians and Surgeons 
Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, Box 38, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Falls are a common hazard in the elderly. Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is 
prevalent in older patients and contributes to the high incidence of falls. Our 
aim was to test whether a home-based resistance-training program (HBRT) using 
elastic resistance bands could safely and effectively increase muscle strength 
and functional ability, and attenuate the orthostatic fall in blood pressure. 
Eight subjects (> 60 yrs) underwent orthostatic provocations; muscle strength 
testing (isometric and dynamic), and a functional test of gait and mobility 
(Timed Up & Go), at baseline and following 8 weeks of training. Ten exercises 
were assigned and customized to each participant. At 8 weeks, significant 
increases occurred in dynamic strength in the chest press ( p = 0.017), 
quadriceps extension ( p = 0.017), and leg press (p = 0.025); no significant 
differences occurred in isometric strength or in blood pressures. Functional 
mobility increased in 7 of 8 subjects. There were no falls during the 
investigation period.
CONCLUSIONS: A HBRT program using elastic resistance bands effectively increases 
dynamic muscle strength in elderly individuals with OH. Although no changes 
occurred in orthostatic blood pressures, which could be attributed to the 
limited length of the program, this therapy may be recognized as a safe method 
to improve strength, functional ability, and promote physical activity - 
variables that can reduce the incidence of falls and enhance the quality of life 
in this population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10286-003-0117-3
PMID: 12955554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Sep;42(3):474-85. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00805-9.

Impact of nephrology referral on early and midterm outcomes in ESRD: 
EPidémiologie de l'Insuffisance REnale chronique terminale en Lorraine (EPIREL): 
results of a 2-year, prospective, community-based study.

Kessler M(1), Frimat L, Panescu V, Briançon S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and 
Evaluation, University Hospital of Nancy, Nancy, France. m.kessler@chu-nancy.fr

BACKGROUND: Most studies looking at how the outcome of end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) is affected by the timing and quality of the care received before 
initiation of renal replacement therapy (RRT) are inconclusive.
METHODS: Five hundred and two adult French patients (age, 62.8 +/- 16 years) 
receiving their first RRT were enrolled in a 2-year, community-based, 
prospective study. Subjects were assigned to 1 of 5 groups depending on the time 
between their first serum creatinine reading above 2 mg/dL (177 micromol/L): 
chronic renal failure (CRF) and nephrology referral (NR) and RRT. Multivariate 
logistic regression was used to analyze 90-day survival data, and data 
concerning long-term survival and inclusion on the waiting list for renal 
transplantation were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards regression.
RESULTS: Overall survival rates were 88% at 90 days, 77.2% at 1 year, 65.2% at 2 
years, and 54.2% at 3 years. The nephrology referral pattern was associated with 
age and systolic blood pressure, and independently predicted early death. 
Compared with group 1 (NR > 12 months), odds ratios (confidence interval 95%) 
were 2.7 (1.2 to 6.3) for group 2 (NR < or = 12 months or >4 months), 2.8 (1.0 
to 8.0) for group 3 (NR < or = 4 months or >1 month), 4.9 (2.2 to 11.0) for 
group 4 (NR < or = 1 month; CRF > 1 month), and 5.2 (2.2 to 12.3) for group 5 
(NR < or = 1 month; CRF < or = 1 month). Independent predictors of death in 
90-day survivors were age, cardiac disease with previous episodes of heart 
failure, vascular disease, low diastolic blood pressure, and group 3 referral 
pattern. Not being entered on the waiting list for renal transplantation was 
predicted by age, diabetes, vascular disease, and nonelective first dialysis.
CONCLUSION: Late nephrology referral is strongly associated with early death. 
Emergency first dialysis is an independent risk factor for not being placed on 
the waiting list for transplantation. Among 90-day survivors, referral pattern 
has little influence on mortality, which is mainly determined by cardiovascular 
complications at initiation of RRT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00805-9
PMID: 12955675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Sep;42(3):513-23. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00746-7.

Prognostic value of cardiac markers in ESRD: Chronic Hemodialysis and New 
Cardiac Markers Evaluation (CHANCE) study.

Iliou MC(1), Fumeron C, Benoit MO, Tuppin P, Calonge VM, Moatti N, Buisson C, 
Jacquot C.

Author information:
(1)Groupe Hospitalier Broussais-Georges Pompidou, Paris, France. 
marie-christine.iliou@brs.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND: Cardiac disease is the main cause of mortality in long-term 
hemodialysis patients. Cardiac troponins (cTn) have been proposed to be markers 
of cardiac damage, but their value is still debated in hemodialysis patients. 
The aim of this prospective study is to assess the prognostic value of 
biochemical cardiac markers in long-term hemodialysis patients.
METHODS: We measured serum levels of cTn I (cTnI), cTn T (cTnT), and creatine 
kinase-MB (CK-MB) in 258 asymptomatic patients (mean age, 60 +/- 15 years; 150 
men) before the dialysis treatment. All causes of death and major adverse 
cardiac events (MACEs: cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or unstable angina) 
were recorded at 1 and 2 years of follow-up. A Cox proportional hazard 
regression model was used to identify factors predictive of mortality.
RESULTS: On inclusion, 48 patients (18.6%) had cTnT levels greater than 0.1 
ng/mL, 46 patients (17.8%) had cTnI levels greater than 0.15 ng/mL, and 18 
patients (7.0%) had CK-MB levels greater than 3 ng/mL. Of 246 patients followed 
up at 2 years, 64 patients (26%) had died, including 29 patients (11.8%) of 
cardiac disease, and 49 patients (19.9%) experienced at least 1 MACE. MACEs were 
significantly greater for patients with elevated predialysis serum cTnT and 
CK-MB levels (>0.1 ng/mL and 3 ng/mL, respectively) than for patients with 
normal levels of these cardiac markers (31.9% versus 17.1%; P = 0.01; 38.9% 
versus 18.4%; P = 0.02, respectively). No differences were found for cTnI 
levels. In multivariate analysis, age (relative risk [RR], 1.04; P = 0.002), 
previous ischemic heart disease (RR, 2.5; P = 0.0001), and serum cTnT levels 
greater than 0.1 ng/mL (RR, 1.9; P = 0.04) were independent significant factors 
for MACEs.
CONCLUSION: Increased predialysis serum levels of cTnT and CK-MB, but not cTnI, 
were predictive of a high risk for overall mortality and MACEs at 2 years in 
asymptomatic hemodialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(03)00746-7
PMID: 12955679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Bioethics. 2002 Aug;16(4):307-34. doi: 10.1111/1467-8519.00291.

The ethics of life expectancy.

Small R(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Education, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia. 
robin.small@education.monash.edu.au

Some ethical dilemmas in health care, such as over the use of age as a criterion 
of patient selection, appeal to the notion of life expectancy. However, some 
features of this concept have not been discussed. Here I look in turn at two 
aspects: one positive--our expectation of further life--and the other 
negative--the loss of potential life brought about by death. The most common 
method of determining this loss, by counting only the period of time between 
death and some particular age, implies that those who die at ages not far from 
that one are regarded as losing very little potential life, while those who die 
at greater ages are regarded as losing none at all. This approach has 
methodological advantages but ethical disadvantages, in that it fails to 
correspond to our strong belief that anyone who dies is losing some period of 
life that he or she would otherwise have had. The normative role of life 
expectancy expressed in the 'fair innings' attitude arises from a particular 
historical situation: not the increase of life expectancy in modern societies, 
but a related narrowing in the distribution of projected life spans. Since life 
expectancy is really a representation of existing patterns of mortality, which 
in turn are determined by many influences, including the present allocation of 
health resources, it should not be taken as a prediction, and still less as a 
statement of entitlement.

DOI: 10.1111/1467-8519.00291
PMID: 12956176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. ANZ J Surg. 2003 Sep;73(9):739-48. doi: 10.1046/j.1445-2197.2003.02741.x.

Bioartificial liver support devices: historical perspectives.

Court FG(1), Wemyss-Holden SA, Dennison AR, Maddern GJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Department of Surgery, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is an important cause of death worldwide. 
Despite significant improvements in critical care therapy there has been little 
impact on survival with mortality rates approaching 80%. In many patients the 
cause of the liver failure is reversible and if short-term hepatic support is 
provided, the liver may regenerate. Survivors recover full liver function and a 
normal life expectancy. For many years the only curative treatment for this 
condition has been liver transplantation, subjecting many patients to 
replacement of a potentially self-regenerating organ, with the lifetime danger 
of immunosuppression and its attendant complications, such as malignancy. 
Because of the shortage of livers available for transplantation, many patients 
die before a transplant can be performed, or are too ill for operation by the 
time a liver becomes available. Many patients with hepatic failure do not 
qualify for liver transplantation because of concomitant infection, metastatic 
cancer, active alcoholism or concurrent medical problems. The survival of 
patients excluded from liver transplantation or those with potentially 
reversible acute hepatitis might be improved with temporary artificial liver 
support. With a view to this, bioartificial liver support devices have been 
developed which replace the synthetic, metabolic and detoxification functions of 
the liver. Some such devices have been evaluated in clinical trials. During the 
last decade, improvements in bioengineering techniques have been used to refine 
the membranes and hepatocyte attachment systems used in these devices, in the 
hope of improving function. The present article reviews the history of liver 
support systems, the attendant problems encountered, and summarizes the main 
systems that are currently under evaluation.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1445-2197.2003.02741.x
PMID: 12956791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Urology. 2003 Sep;62(3 Suppl 1):15-23. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00480-1.

Lower urinary tract symptoms/benign prostatic hyperplasia: maintaining symptom 
control and reducing complications.

O'Leary MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
moleary1@partners.org

Because the average patient with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) suggestive 
of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), or LUTS/BPH, has a remaining life 
expectancy of 15 to 20 years, both short-term and long-term outcomes matter in 
the management of LUTS/BPH. Sustained symptom control and improvement of quality 
of life (QOL), control of disease progression (ie, prevention or reduction of 
bladder wall hypertrophy [BWH]/increased bladder mass and reduction of the risk 
of serious complications), and minimization of the need to switch to other 
medical therapy or surgery are important. In this respect, alpha(1)-adrenoceptor 
antagonists, such as tamsulosin, have been shown to provide effective and rapid 
relief of symptoms and improvement in QOL, which is sustained in the long term 
(up to 6 years). Obstruction may, in the long term, induce changes in the 
bladder wall (eg, BWH), which may result in (irreversible) bladder damage and 
serious complications. Preliminary data suggest that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor 
antagonists prevent the development of BWH in rabbits and reduce existing BWH in 
obstructed LUTS/BPH patients. Pooled analyses and indirect comparisons of 
clinical studies up to 1 year have shown that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists, 
such as tamsulosin, reduce the risk of acute urinary retention and the need for 
surgery to at least the same extent as the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor 
finasteride. In addition, monotherapy with an alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist 
reduces the risk of long-term clinical progression; the combination with 
finasteride may be more beneficial in patients at high risk (patients with large 
prostate volume, high level of prostate-specific antigen, high International 
Prostate Symptom Score, high postvoid residual amount, and low maximum flow 
rate). Therefore, alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists, such as tamsulosin, are 
first-line therapy, not only in the short term but also in the long-term 
management of LUTS/BPH.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00480-1
PMID: 12957196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003 Sep 3;42(5):882-8. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(03)00855-6.

Clinical course of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with survival to advanced age.

Maron BJ(1), Casey SA, Hauser RG, Aeppli DM.

Author information:
(1)Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Center, Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, 
