920 E. 28th Street, Suite 60, Minneapolis, MN 55407, USA. hcm.maron@mhif.org

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to clarify and resolve the clinical profile 
of older patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).
BACKGROUND: Adverse consequences of HCM such as sudden death and incapacitating 
symptoms have been emphasized for the young and middle-aged.
METHODS: Long-term outcome of HCM was assessed in a community-based cohort not 
subject to tertiary center referral bias.
RESULTS: Of 312 patients, 73 (23%) achieved normal life expectancy (> or =75 
years; range to 96); 44 (14%) were > or =80 years old. Most patients > or =75 
years (47; 64%) experienced no or only mild limiting symptoms and lived 
virtually their entire lives with few HCM-related clinical consequences; 26 
patients (36%) experienced severe progressive symptoms. In elderly patients with 
HCM, diagnosis and symptom onset were considerably delayed to 74 +/- 8 and 70 
+/- 11 years, respectively. For patients > or =50 years at diagnosis, the 
probability of survival for 5, 10, and 15 years was 85 +/- 3%, 74 +/- 4%, and 57 
+/- 6%, respectively, and did not significantly differ from a matched general 
population (p = 0.20). Patients > or =75 years were predominantly women, and had 
less marked wall thickness and more frequently showed basal outflow obstruction 
> or =30 mm Hg (compared with those <75 years; p < 0.01 and 0.001, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is frequently well tolerated and 
compatible with normal life expectancy, and may remain clinically dormant for 
long periods of time with symptoms and initial diagnosis deferred until late in 
life. These observations afford a measure of reassurance to many patients with 
HCM, a disease for which clinical course is often unfavorable and unpredictable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(03)00855-6
PMID: 12957437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Free Radic Biol Med. 2003 Sep 15;35(6):626-35. doi: 
10.1016/s0891-5849(03)00388-5.

Effects of age and caloric restriction on glutathione redox state in mice.

Rebrin I(1), Kamzalov S, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

The main purpose of this study was to determine whether the aging process in the 
mouse is associated with a pro-oxidizing shift in the redox state of glutathione 
and whether restriction of caloric intake, which results in the extension of 
life span, retards such a shift. Amounts of reduced and oxidized forms of 
glutathione (GSH and GSSG, respectively) and protein-glutathione mixed 
disulfides (protein-SSG) were measured in homogenates and mitochondria of liver, 
kidney, heart, brain, eye, and testis of 4, 10, 22, and 26 month old ad 
libitum-fed (AL) mice and 22 month old mice fed a diet containing 40% fewer 
calories than the AL group from the age of 4 months. The concentrations of GSH, 
GSSG, and protein-SSG vary greatly (approximately 10-, 30-, and 9-fold, 
respectively) from one tissue to another. During aging, the ratios of GSH:GSSG 
in mitochondria and tissue homogenates decreased, primarily due to elevations in 
GSSG content, while the protein-SSG content increased significantly. Glutathione 
redox potential in mitochondria became less negative, i.e., more pro-oxidizing, 
as the animal aged. Caloric restriction (CR) lowered the GSSG and protein-SSG 
content. Results suggest that the aging process in the mouse is associated with 
a gradual pro-oxidizing shift in the glutathione redox state and that CR 
attenuates this shift.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(03)00388-5
PMCID: PMC2837076
PMID: 12957655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2003 Aug;13 Suppl 2:S43-50. doi: 
10.1016/s0924-977x(03)00077-4.

Diagnostic issues in bipolar disorder.

Angst J(1), Gamma A, Benazzi F, Ajdacic V, Eich D, Rössler W.

Author information:
(1)Zurich University Psychiatric Hospital, Lenggstrasse 31 CH-8029, Zürich, 
Switzerland. jangst@bli.unizh.ch

Bipolar disorder is a highly recurrent and chronic psychiatric condition that 
shortens life expectancy, causes functional impairment and disruption to social, 
work and family life. Several forms of bipolar disorder are recognised, 
including both bipolar I and bipolar II disorder. Bipolar I is characterised by 
recurrent episodes of depression and mania whereas bipolar II disorder is 
characterised by recurrent depression and hypomania, a milder form of mania. 
There has been debate concerning the definition of hypomania since at least the 
1970s. The main areas of argument focus on the minimum duration of hypomania, 
its stem criteria and the number of symptoms required for diagnosis. Arriving at 
the correct definition of hypomania is a key diagnostic issue. There is 
increasing evidence for the existence of a broad spectrum of bipolar disorders, 
and data demonstrating the clinical validity of modifying some of the criteria 
for hypomania are reviewed here.

DOI: 10.1016/s0924-977x(03)00077-4
PMID: 12957719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Front Biosci. 2003 Sep 1;8:s883-902. doi: 10.2741/1122.

Aging and cancer in transgenic and mutant mice.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Carcinogenesis and Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research 
Institute of Oncology, Pesochny-2, St. Petersburg 197758, Russia. aging@mail.ru

Mutant and genetically modified animal models, which are characterized by 
shortening or extension of the life span, give a unique possibility to evaluate 
the role of aging genes in mechanisms of carcinogenesis. Transgenic and null 
mutant ("knockout") animal models also offer an important opportunity to 
identify and study both carcinogens and chemopreventive agents. The analysis of 
the available data on transgenic and mutant mice has shown that only a few 
models represent examples of life span extension. Ames dwarf mutant mice, p66-/- 
knockout mice, alpha-MUPA and O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) 
transgenic mice live longer than wild-type strains. The incidence of spontaneous 
tumors in these mice was similar to those in controls, whereas the latent period 
of tumor development was increased. Practically all models of accelerated aging 
(excepting p53+/m mice) show the increased tumor incidence and shortening of 
tumor latency. These observations are in agreement with an earlier established 
positive correlation between tumor incidence and the rate of tumor incidence 
increase associated with aging and the aging rate in a population. Thus, 
genetically modified animals are a valuable tool in unraveling mechanisms 
underlying aging and cancer.

DOI: 10.2741/1122
PMID: 12957819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Science. 2003 Sep 5;301(5638):1387-91. doi: 10.1126/science.1087782.

Autophagy genes are essential for dauer development and life-span extension in 
C. elegans.

Meléndez A(1), Tallóczy Z, Seaman M, Eskelinen EL, Hall DH, Levine B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, 
630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Both dauer formation (a stage of developmental arrest) and adult life-span in 
Caenorhabditis elegans are negatively regulated by insulin-like signaling, but 
little is known about cellular pathways that mediate these processes. Autophagy, 
through the sequestration and delivery of cargo to the lysosomes, is the major 
route for degrading long-lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles in eukaryotic 
cells. Using nematodes with a loss-of-function mutation in the insulin-like 
signaling pathway, we show that bec-1, the C. elegans ortholog of the yeast and 
mammalian autophagy gene APG6/VPS30/beclin1, is essential for normal dauer 
morphogenesis and life-span extension. Dauer formation is associated with 
increased autophagy and also requires C. elegans orthologs of the yeast 
autophagy genes APG1, APG7, APG8, and AUT10. Thus, autophagy is a cellular 
pathway essential for dauer development and life-span extension in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1087782
PMID: 12958363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Arch Esp Urol. 2003 Jul-Aug;56(6):690-700.

[Evaluation indicators of biomedical research].

[Article in Spanish]

García Romero A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía (Universidad Carlos III de Madrid) y Agencia Laín 
Entralgo (Comunidad de Madrid), España. help@eco.uc3m.es

The evaluation of R + D activities and the politics that promote them is 
essential to justify the investment done as well as to optimize their results. 
In this context, the evaluation should be understood as the group of techniques 
and procedures that allow obtaining useful information to take decisions in the 
field of R + D. This article has two main objectives: (i) to present the basic 
concepts associated with the evaluation of research, and (ii) to offer a general 
and updated panoramic view of which are the most frequently used methods to 
evaluate research. For that, in addition to considering the most conventional 
evaluation, focused on scientific results, we also think about the need of 
evaluating the impacts that scientific results generate on the social-economic 
context, and that in the case of biomedical research, these may be presented in 
terms of quality and life expectancy, improvements in patient care, etc. 
Therefore, the motivation of present article is to give a modern and updated 
perspective that allows the reader who is interested to study in-depth this 
emerging field of Science, if he/she wants.

PMID: 12959005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Tex Heart Inst J. 2003;30(3):218-20.

Surgical management of metastatic melanoma to the ventricle.

Messner G(1), Harting MT, Russo P, Gregoric ID, Mukhopadhyay M, Flamm SD, 
Frazier OH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiopulmonary Transplantation, Texas Heart Institute at St. 
Luke's Episcopal Hospital, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

The treatment of patients who have cardiac tumors can be challenging, because 
these tumors occur infrequently and in variable locations, and surgical 
resection is often technically difficult. We report the cases of 2 patients, 
each of whom underwent successful surgical excision of large melanomas that had 
metastasized to the right cardiac ventricle. Although the presence of widespread 
disease and a limited life expectancy usually prevent surgical therapy for 
patients who have metastatic cardiac tumors, removal of such masses greatly 
facilitated subsequent medical management of these 2 patients and improved their 
quality of life.

PMCID: PMC197321
PMID: 12959206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2003 Aug 22-Oct 10;66(16-19):1731-4. doi: 
10.1080/15287390306429.

Commentary on the design of cohort studies.

Tager I(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of California, 
Berkeley, California 94720-7360, USA. bt@uclink.berkeley.edu

Comment on
    J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2003 Aug 22-Oct 10;66(16-19):1723-9.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390306429
PMID: 12959841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2003 Aug 22-Oct 10;66(16-19):1847-63. doi: 
10.1080/15287390306447.

Impact of particulate air pollution on quality-adjusted life expectancy in 
Canada.

Coyle D(1), Stieb D, Burnett RT, DeCivita P, Krewski D, Chen Y, Thun MJ.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Health Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada. dcoyle@ohri.ca

Air pollution and premature death are important public health concerns. Analyses 
have repeatedly demonstrated that airborne particles are associated with 
increased mortality and estimates have been used to forecast the impact on life 
expectancy. In this analysis, we draw upon data from the American Cancer Society 
(ACS) cohort and literature on utility-based measures of quality of life in 
relation to health status to more fully quantify the effects of air pollution on 
mortality in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy. The analysis was 
conducted within a decision analytic model using Monte Carlo simulation 
techniques. Outcomes were estimated based on projections of the Canadian 
population. A one-unit reduction in sulfate air pollution would yield a mean 
annual increase in Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) of 20,960, with gains 
being greater for individuals with lower educational status and for males 
compared to females. This suggests that the impact of reductions in sulfate air 
pollution on quality-adjusted life expectancy is substantial. Interpretation of 
the results is unclear. However, the potential gains in QALYs from reduced air 
pollutants can be contrasted to the costs of policies to bring about such 
reductions. Based on a tentative threshold for the value of health benefits, 
analysis suggests that an investment in Canada of over 1 billion dollars per 
annum would be an efficient use of resources if it could be demonstrated that 
this would reduce sulfate concentrations in ambient air by 1 microg/m(3). 
Further analysis can assess the efficiency of targeting such initiatives to 
communities that are most likely to benefit.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390306447
PMID: 12959847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2003 Aug 22-Oct 10;66(16-19):1865-71. doi: 
10.1080/15287390306423.

Issues and uncertainties in estimating the health benefits of air pollution 
control.

Levy JI(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. 
jilevy@hsph.harvard.edu

The estimation of health benefits from reductions in ambient air pollution 
requires information both about the relationship between concentrations and 
health effects and about the ultimate value of health outcomes. In this 
commentary, I discuss significant issues and uncertainties that must be 
addressed for both elements. Critical issues for concentration-response 
estimation include the shape of the concentration-response curve at current and 
projected ambient levels, the relevant exposure period, the existence of 
high-risk subpopulations, and the ability to generalize across study settings. 
Health outcomes can be valued using either health-based measures like 
quality-adjusted life years or economic measures like value of statistical life; 
the choice of measure has a significant effect on the magnitude and distribution 
of health benefits. Analysts estimating health benefits for ultimate 
benefit-cost applications should provide results using multiple valuation 
frameworks and multiple assumptions about health evidence to facilitate 
interpretation and to determine whether policy decisions depend on these 
assumptions.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390306423
PMID: 12959848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Health Care Women Int. 2003 Sep-Oct;24(8):712-22. doi: 
10.1080/07399330390227463.

Major factors that impact on women's health in Tanzania: the way forward.

Mella PP(1).

Author information:
(1)The Hubert Kairuki Memorial University, 322 Regent Estate, PO Box 65300, Dar 
es Salaam, Tanzania, Africa. ppmella@hotmail.com

Tanzania's health policy is to improve the health of all Tanzanians with a focus 
on those most at risk. One of the major objectives is to reduce infant and 
maternal morbidity and mortality and increase life expectancy. The life 
expectancy in Tanzania is 49 years for males and 53 years for females. Maternal 
mortality is recorded at 300-400 deaths per 100,000 women. The main causes are 
haemorrhage, sepsis, rupture of the uterus, anaemia, and others. The risk 
factors associated with the above causes include maternal height, age, child 
spacing, and number of births per woman; malaria and anaemia; imbalance of 
energy and food intake; HIV/AIDS; women's workload; and female genital 
mutilation (FGM). To address issues of women's health, the government has put in 
place many strategies, for example, a ministry to look after women's issues, the 
safe motherhood initiatives, improvement of the knowledge and skill of health 
care providers, as well as collaboration with nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs) and private agencies. The health sector reform is important because it 
has negatively affected women's access to health care. To improve the health of 
women in Tanzania, health and health-related sectors should cooperate and 
collaborate in order to empower women in the areas of education, social status, 
and technology. Policies must also address poverty, nutrition, adolescent 
health, and violence and sexual abuse.

DOI: 10.1080/07399330390227463
PMID: 12959870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Immunol. 2003 Sep 15;171(6):2912-21. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.171.6.2912.

In vitro generation and life span extension of human papillomavirus type 
16-specific, healthy donor-derived CTL clones.

Schreurs MW(1), Scholten KB, Kueter EW, Ruizendaal JJ, Meijer CJ, Hooijberg E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Vrije Universiteit Medical Center, 1081 HV 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 infection is strongly associated with the 
development of cervical carcinoma (CxCa) in women. The HPV16-derived 
oncoproteins E6 and E7, responsible for both onset and maintenance of malignant 
transformation, are expressed constitutively in CxCa cells and represent 
tumor-associated Ags. As a result, E6 and E7 constitute potential targets for 
adoptive CTL-mediated immunotherapy of CxCa. However, the availability to date 
of well-characterized HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTLs is extremely 
limited. The current study describes the in vitro generation and isolation of 
HPV16 E7-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones from low-frequency healthy 
donor-derived CD8beta-positive precursors. For this purpose, an in vitro CTL 
induction protocol was used involving mature monocyte-derived dendritic cells as 
stimulator cells loaded with an HLA-A2.1-restricted, E7(11-20)-derived 
high-affinity altered peptide ligand. A double tetramer-guided isolation 
procedure and subsequent limiting-dilution cloning resulted in Ag-specific CTL 
clones. Stringent CTL characterization clearly indicated Ag-specific, 
HLA-A2.1-restricted reactivity against different HPV16-transformed CxCa cell 
lines. To allow expansion of E7(11-20)-specific CTL clones to numbers required 
for prolonged in vitro as well as in vivo application, their life span was 
significantly extended by ectopic expression of human telomerase reverse 
transcriptase. Collectively, our results show that optimized CTL induction and 
stringent CTL selection procedures, followed by human telomerase reverse 
transcriptase-mediated life span extension will allow continued availability of 
low-frequency HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones. This may enhance 
the prospects of HPV16-specific adoptive CTL immunotherapy in CxCa patients.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.171.6.2912
PMID: 12960314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2003 Sep;37(3):258-62. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-200309000-00012.

Severe colonic complications of pancreatic disease.

Gardner A(1), Gardner G, Feller E.

Author information:
(1)Brown Medical School, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Colonic involvement in pancreatic disorders is rare but 
potentially fatal. Extension of contiguous inflammation or neoplasm, 
autodigestive effects of enzymes, or dissection of a pseudocyst or abscess may 
involve the colon producing obstruction, perforation, hemorrhage, or abdominal 
pain.
RESULTS: Nine patients with pancreatic disease requiring colonic resection were 
identified. Cases included pancreatic abscess producing colonic necrosis (2). 
pancreatic carcinoma invading the colon (3). extension of pancreatitis producing 
a colonic stricture (3). and pseudocyst eroding into the splenic flexure (1). 
Presentation was varied, including rectal bleeding (2). clinical deterioration 
during severe pancreatitis (4). and large bowel obstruction (3). The 3 cases due 
to malignancy, 1 of which was recurrent, presented with primary large bowel 
symptoms suggesting intestinal obstruction rather than pancreatic disease. 
Typically, patients with severe acute pancreatitis had colonic pathology 
obscured and unrecognized initially because of the ongoing, fulminant 
inflammatory process.
CONCLUSIONS: Recognition of large bowel involvement may be difficult because of 
nonspecific symptoms or be masked by the systemic features of a critical 
illness. Colonoscopy, contrast x-rays, or CT scan may be vital in selected cases 
to detect underlying pathology. Clinicians should be aware that acute or chronic 
pancreatitis or pancreatic carcinoma may compress, erode, or inflame the large 
bowel, resulting in life-threatening colonic necrosis, bleeding, obstruction, or 
perforation.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-200309000-00012
PMID: 12960726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Demography. 2003 Aug;40(3):569-87. doi: 10.1353/dem.2003.0022.

The racial crossover in family complexity in the United States.

Goldscheider FK(1), Bures RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Brown University, Maxcy Hall, Box 1916, Providence, 
RI 02912, USA. Frances_Goldscheider@Brown.edu

This article examines the evolution of the black extended family by documenting 
a black-white crossover in the proportions of unmarried adults living in complex 
households after the middle of the twentieth century. We demonstrate significant 
racial differences in the trends in complex house-hold residence over the life 
course, characterized by far greater declines in complex living among whites, 
particularly at younger ages. In this context, the higher level of family 
extension that recent research has found typifies black families is both a 
relatively new phenomenon and one that is not just limited to single-parent 
families; it characterizes all ages, those with and without children, and men as 
well as women.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2003.0022
PMID: 12962063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Mayo Clin Proc. 2003 Sep;78(9):1157-85. doi: 10.4065/78.9.1157.

Comprehensive evaluation of the older woman.

Amin SH(1), Kuhle CL, Fitzpatrick LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Metabolism, Nutrition and Internal 
Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn, USA.

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2003 Nov;78(11):1430; author reply 1430.

Nearly 50% of American women will be older than 45 years by the year 2015. 
Because the life expectancy of women is anticipated to extend to an average age 
of 81 years by 2050, the aging woman will become the predominant patient seeking 
health care. These statistics reveal the importance for health care providers to 
become familiar with the health care needs of this segment of the population. 
Over their life span, women are more likely to experience disease and disability 
and subsequently require intervention and treatment. This review is an 
evaluation of the older woman in the primary care setting. In the first section, 
which is an overall assessment of the older woman, we introduce common geriatric 
syndromes that should be recognized by health care professionals. We include an 
approach to the older woman and specific clinical tools that may be useful for 
comprehensive evaluation in the outpatient setting. In the second section, we 
discuss sex-specific illnesses as they relate to the older woman. In the third 
section, we provide insights on end-of-life issues, cultural competence, and 
socioeconomic concerns. In the last section, we summarize the key components in 
the evaluation and management of the older woman. The goal of this article is to 
provide the health care provider with a clear understanding of factors that must 
be considered to provide optimal care to these patients.

DOI: 10.4065/78.9.1157
PMID: 12962172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2003 Summer;19(3):476-89. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462303000412.

Reporting the cost-effectiveness of interventions with nonsignificant effect 
differences: example from a trial of secondary prevention of coronary heart 
disease.

Johnston K(1), Gray A, Moher M, Yudkin P, Wright L, Mant D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Headington, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This study reports the cost-effectiveness of interventions with 
nonsignificant differences in effect, and considers reporting of 
cost-effectiveness in situations where nonsignificant differences arise in some 
but not all end points.
METHODS: Data on costs and effects associated with three end points (adequate 
assessment, risk factors, and life-years) were derived from a trial of methods 
to promote secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Incremental cost per 
life-year gained figures were calculated, and the uncertainty around these was 
displayed on cost-effectiveness planes in the form of ellipses.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in one of the intermediate end 
points (adequate assessment) but nonsignificant differences in the other 
intermediate end point (risk factors) and the final end point (life-years). 
Estimation of cost per life-year figures revealed the cost-effectiveness of the 
interventions to be unfavorable.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness ratios based on final end points should be 
calculated even in situations where nonsignificant differences in life-years 
arise, to avoid publication bias and to provide decision makers with useful 
information. Uncertainty in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios should be 
estimated and presented graphically.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462303000412
PMID: 12962334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Indian J Chest Dis Allied Sci. 2003 Oct-Dec;45(4):231-5.

Profile of geriatric patients under DOTS in Revised National Tuberculosis 
Control Programme.

Arora VK(1), Singla N, Sarin R.

Author information:
(1)LRS Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases, Sri Aurobindo Marg, 
New Delhi, India. lrsinet@bol.net.in

BACKGROUND: With an increase in life expectancy and the resultant elderly 
population, there has been an increase in the number of tuberculosis (TB) cases 
including those in geriatric age as well. However using Directly Observed 
Treatment-Short Course (DOTS), all categories of TB patients have been 
sucessfully treated within the country. A need was felt to study the profile of 
geriatric TB patients under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme 
(RNTCP).
METHODS: A retrospective study of 7439 patients enrolled under DOTS from January 
1996 to March 2001 was carried out in a tertiary care referral institute in 
Delhi and the profile was analysed in terms of the gender, type of TB and ratio 
of sputum smear-positive to negative patients for both the younger and geriatric 
age groups. Further, treatment outcomes of the two age groups were analysed and 
compared for the 2655 new sputum smear patients.
RESULTS: The male : female ratio of 315 geriatric TB patients enrolled under 
DOTS was observed to be 3 : 1 as against the 1.4 : 1 in younger TB patients. The 
occurrence of pulmonary TB was significantly higher than extra-pulmonary TB in 
geriatric age group (16:1) as compared to the younger age group (4:1). The ratio 
of new smear-positive to smear-negative patients was almost similar in the two 
age groups. Further, the treatment outcomes of new smear-positive geriatric TB 
patients in comparison to younger TB patients showed significantly lower sputum 
conversion (75.3% vs 85.7% respectively) and cure rates (69.2% vs 80.7% 
respectively), significantly higher exclusion rates from DOTS (2.3% vs 0.15% 
respectively) and relatively higher default and treatment failure rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study has identified certain issues in the Indian TB 
patients of geriatric age. These include a lower reported prevalence amongst 
females, poor sputum conversion as well as cure rates and higher exclusion as 
well as default rates. Further studies are needed to address the issues under 
operational conditions of Indian RNTCP.

PMID: 12962456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Basic Microbiol. 2003;43(5):399-406. doi: 10.1002/jobm.200310244.

Mutation analysis of the feedback inhibition site of phenylalanine-sensitive 
3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase of Escherichia coli.

Hu C(1), Jiang P, Xu J, Wu Y, Huang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, 220 
Handan Rd., Shanghai (200433), P. R. China.

In Escherichia coli, the phenylalanine-sensitive 
3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate synthase (DAHPS) AroG catalyzes the 
first committed step in the biosynthesis of aromatic compounds. To investigate 
the feedback inhibition site of AroG, mutated enzymes prepared with 
sequence-overlap extension PCR were expressed and purified. The enzymatic 
activity assay showed that the amino acid replacements at Phe144, Leu175, 
Leu179, Phe209, Trp215Ala and Val221 completely or partially relieved feedback 
inhibition of AroG addressed by the phenylalanine. Ile10Ala and Delta(1-15) 
desensitized feedback inhibition and caused a 70 approximately 90% loss of the 
specific catalytic activities. These results strongly suggest an involvement of 
the interior region and the N-terminus of the polypeptide chain of AroG in the 
formation of the feedback inhibition site of DAHPS.

DOI: 10.1002/jobm.200310244
PMID: 12964183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Wound Care. 2001 Apr;10(4):111-4. doi: 10.12968/jowc.2001.10.4.26072.

Nurses' evaluation of a new four-layer bandage system.

Lane C(1), Franks PJ.

Author information:
(1)Trafford Healthcare Trust, Sale, UK.

This small study was undertaken to evaluate a new four-layer bandage (4LB) 
system (Ultra Four, Robinson). The aim was to provide initial user information 
about the product and compare it with the previously used original Charing Cross 
4LB system. Subjective evaluations of the comparative performance of the Ultra 
Four system were assessed using a weekly treatment questionnaire in 30 patients. 
Both patients and nurses commented on the usability of each individual layer and 
the overall performance of the new system over a period of up to 12 weeks or 
until healing. After 12 weeks 15/30 ulcers (50%) had healed. Using life table 
analysis, allowing for patients who failed to reach 12 weeks, the expected 
healing rate was 65%. The performance of each individual layer was considered 
similar to those of the Charing Cross 4LB in terms of wear and tear, slippage 
and ease of removal. However, there was an indication that the fourth layer 
provided superior wear and tear at the heel and better ease of application and 
ease of removal than the original. After one week of treatment the Ultra Four 
system was rated better than the original 4LB for wear and tear at the heel in 
15/28 patients (54%), for overall wear and tear in 12/25 (48%), for ease of 
application in 9/27 (33%) and for ease of removal in 11/26 (42%). This study 
relied on the nurses' experience rather than a direct comparison between 
bandages. However, it does indicate that the relative performance of products 
may help nurses to make decisions when objective comparative data are not 
available.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2001.10.4.26072
PMID: 12964315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Oral Implantol. 2003;29(4):174-80. doi: 
10.1563/1548-1336(2003)029<0174:APMSOT>2.3.CO;2.

A prospective, multicenter, 4-year study of the ACE Surgical resorbable blast 
media implant.

Gonshor A(1), Goveia G, Sotirakis E.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
arongonshor@hotmail.com

This article reports on the 50-month results of the evaluation of the ACE 
Surgical resorbable blast media (RBM) dental implant. There were 1077 implants 
placed in 348 patients: 950 in the mandible and 127 in the maxilla. A total of 
78.6% of the implants were used to support anterior, mandibular, bar-retained 
overdentures. The 3.75- to 4.00-mm-diameter implant was used in 91.1% of cases, 
with the remainder being 3.3 mm (2.2%) or 4.75 mm (6.7%). The implants of 10-, 
13-, and 15-mm lengths were used in almost equal amounts in the mandible, 
maxilla, and anterior or posterior aspects of either jaw. There were 7 failures, 
all in the mandible and before stage 2 surgery. The overall implant success rate 
in this 50-month interim report is 99.3% in the mandible and 100% for the 
maxilla. There was no discernible crestal bone loss during the study period. No 
differences in bone response were seen in RBM implants with roughened surfaces 
on the entire implant, up to the collar, or up to the first 2 threads below the 
collar.

DOI: 10.1563/1548-1336(2003)029<0174:APMSOT>2.3.CO;2
PMID: 12964797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Ment Retard. 2003 Oct;41(5):389-91. doi: 
10.1352/0047-6765(2003)41<389:KVBAWH>2.0.CO;2.

Keene v. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Inc.: on the value of a life with mental 
retardation.

Vitello SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers-The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08901-125, USA. 
svitello@rci.rutgers.edu

DOI: 10.1352/0047-6765(2003)41<389:KVBAWH>2.0.CO;2
PMID: 12964898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 1):321-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_1-200309020-00007.

Management of influenza in adults older than 65 years of age: cost-effectiveness 
of rapid testing and antiviral therapy.

Rothberg MB(1), Bellantonio S, Rose DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Baystate Medical Center, 
Springfield, MA 01199, USA. Michael.Rothberg@bhs.org

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 1):I27.

BACKGROUND: Although antiviral therapy is cost-effective in adults, its 
cost-effectiveness in older adults has not been studied.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of influenza testing and 
treatment strategies for older adults.
DESIGN: Cost-utility decision model.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical trials of antiviral drugs and epidemiologic data.
TARGET POPULATION: Noninstitutionalized adults older than 65 years of age with 
influenza-like illness.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Rapid diagnostic testing or empirical therapy with antiviral 
drugs.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with no intervention, empirically 
treating an unvaccinated 75-year-old patient with amantadine increased life 
expectancy by 0.0014 QALY at a cost of 1.57 dollars, a cost-effectiveness ratio 
of 1129 dollars per QALY saved. Compared with amantadine, rapid diagnostic 
testing followed by treatment with oseltamivir cost 5025 dollars per QALY saved 
and empirical treatment with oseltamivir cost 10,296 dollars per QALY saved. 
Testing and treatment strategies were less cost-effective if the patient was 
vaccinated, ranging from 2483 dollars per QALY saved with amantadine to 70,300 
dollars per QALY saved with oseltamivir.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The decision was sensitive to the probability 
of influenza, the efficacy of oseltamivir in preventing hospitalizations, and 
hospitalization and case-fatality rates. The decision was not sensitive to the 
probability or severity of medication side effects, the quality of life for 
influenza illness or hospitalization, the efficacy of antiviral therapy in 
shortening influenza illness, or the rapid diagnostic test characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: For unvaccinated or high-risk vaccinated patients during the 
influenza season, empirical oseltamivir treatment is cost-effective. For other 
patients, rapid diagnostic testing followed by treatment with oseltamivir is 
cost-effective. Empirical amantadine treatment offers a low-cost alternative if 
patients cannot afford oseltamivir.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_1-200309020-00007
PMID: 12965940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 1):I27. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_1-200309020-00002.

Summaries for patients. Cost-effective management of flu in adults older than 65 
years of age.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 1):321-9.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_1-200309020-00002
PMID: 12965955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 2):445-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_2-200309021-00013.

Understanding the determinants of exceptional longevity.

Perls T(1), Terry D.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Section, Boston University Medical Center, 88 East Newton Street, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA. thperls@bu.edu

Centenarians represent an extreme of life expectancy. They achieve their 
exceptional longevity in part by lacking genetic variations linked to premature 
death. Pedigree studies have shown a substantial familial component in the 
ability to survive to extreme old age, and a recent study demonstrated a locus 
on chromosome 4 linked to exceptional longevity, indicating the likely existence 
of at least one longevity-enabling gene in humans. The children of centenarians 
have markedly reduced relative risks for age-related diseases, particularly 
heart disease, hypertension, and diabetes, and are a promising model for genetic 
and phenotypic studies of 1) aging slowly relative to the general population and 
2) the delay of and perhaps escape from important age-related diseases. These 
studies and those of other mammals and lower organisms show great promise for 
the delineation of important environmental and genetic determinants of aging 
well.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_2-200309021-00013
PMID: 12965974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Sep 2;139(5 Pt 2):455-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_2-200309021-00015.

Measuring and monitoring success in compressing morbidity.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, CA, USA.

The Compression of Morbidity paradigm, introduced in 1980, maintains that if the 
average age at first infirmity, disability, or other morbidity is postponed and 
if this postponement is greater than increases in life expectancy, then 
cumulative lifetime morbidity will decrease-compressed between a later onset and 
the time of death. The National Long-Term Care Survey, the National Health 
Interview Survey, and other data now document declining disability trends 
beginning in 1982 and accelerating more recently. The decline is about 2% per 
year, contrasted with a decline in mortality rates of about 1% per year, thereby 
documenting compression of morbidity in the United States at the population 
level. Longitudinal studies now link good health risk status with long-term 
reductions in cumulative lifetime disability; persons with few behavioral health 
risks have only one-fourth the disability of those who have more risk factors, 
and the onset of disability is postponed from 7 to 12 years, far more than any 
increases in longevity in the groups. Randomized, controlled trials of health 
enhancement programs in elderly populations show reduction in health risks, 
improved health status, and decreased medical care utilization. Health policy 
initiatives now being undertaken have promise of increasing and consolidating 
health gains for the elderly.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-139-5_part_2-200309021-00015
PMID: 12965976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Sep;90(3):1449-63. doi: 10.1152/jn.00220.2003.

Counteractive relationship between the interaction torque and muscle torque at 
the wrist is predestined in ball-throwing.

Hirashima M(1), Ohgane K, Kudo K, Hase K, Ohtsuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Many investigators have demonstrated that in swing motions such as 
ball-throwing, the motion of the proximal joint (shoulder) produced assistive 
interaction torque for the distal joint (elbow). In line with these studies, the 
shoulder and elbow motions would be expected to produce the assistive 
interaction torque for the wrist joint as well. However, we recently showed that 
the interaction torque at the wrist was always counteractive to the wrist muscle 
torque during ball-throwing. The purpose of this study is to clarify, by means 
of computer simulation, whether the counteractive relationship at the wrist 
during ball-throwing is caused by the neural contribution or the musculoskeletal 
mechanical properties of the human arm. First, we simulated the throwing motions 
of the normal forearm-hand model by systematically changing the 
proximal-to-distal delay of muscle activities and could line up two candidates 
for the determinant of the counteractive relationship: the rest angle (neutral 
angle) of the wrist and the length and mass of the hand. Second, we simulated 
the throwing motions of the virtual forearm-hand models, showing that only 
nonrealistic elongation of these two parameters produced the assistive 
relationship between the interaction torque and muscle torque. These results 
suggested that the mechanical properties of the human wrist are the main 
determinant of the counteractive relationship, which is advantageous for keeping 
the state of the wrist joint stable in multi-joint upper-limb movements and 
would lead to avoidance of excessive wrist extension or flexion and 
simplification of extrinsic finger control.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00220.2003
PMID: 12966174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Rheumatol. 2003 Sep;30(9):1977-82.

Summarizing disease features over time: I. Adjusted mean SLEDAI derivation and 
application to an index of disease activity in lupus.

Ibañez D(1), Urowitz MB, Gladman DD.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Lupus Clinic, Centre for Prognosis Studies in the 
Rheumatic Diseases, Toronto Western Hospital, 399 Bathurst Street, EC 5-034, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5T 2S8.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a measurement of lupus disease activity over time.
METHODS: We studied patients from the University of Toronto Lupus Clinic with 
"regular" followup, defined as having been in the clinic for at least 3 visits 
and never having been away from the clinic for a period exceeding 18 consecutive 
months. For each visit, disease activity was evaluated with the Systemic Lupus 
Erythematosus Disease Activity Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K). The common approach to 
summarize over multiple visits by calculating a mean ignores the presence of 
varying time intervals between visits. We used the adjusted mean SLEDAI-2K 
(AMS), determined by the calculation of the area under the curve of SLEDAI-2K 
over time by adding the area of each of the blocks of visit interval and then 
dividing by the length of time for the whole period. The resulting AMS has the 
same units as the original SLEDAI-2K. A time-dependent covariate survival 
analysis was done to test which of AMS, SLEDAI-2K at presentation, sex, and age 
at diagnosis is the best predictor of mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 575 patients with regular followup were included. Only AMS 
and age at diagnosis were significant predictors. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% 
confidence intervals (CI) for AMS: OR 1.15 (CI 1.09, 1.20), p = 0.0001; age at 
diagnosis: OR 1.05 (CI 1.03, 1.06), p = 0.0001.
CONCLUSION: AMS represents an average disease activity measure over time and is 
strongly associated with mortality.

PMID: 12966601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Shi Yan Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2003 Jun;36(3):233-7.

[Screening for lifespan-extension mutants with paraquat in Arabidopsis].

[Article in Chinese]

Cao SQ(1), Xu QT, Zhou HJ, Cao YJ, Zhu Y, Yu F, Kuai BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, China.

Genetic analyses of lifespan in model animals have revealed that extended 
lifespans are closely associated to increased resistance to oxidative stress. In 
the model plant Arabidopsis, late-flowering mutants are also found to be more 
tolerant to oxidative stress. However, Arabidopsis mutants with extended 
lifespans are poorly studied so far. In this study, a screening system for 
mutants with extended lifespans in Arabidopsis was established using paraquat, a 
potent herbicide that exacerbates O2-. radical production. The relationship 
between lifespan and resistance to oxidative stress was examined with one of the 
mutants, SFNA-9-4. Compared to that of wild type, the lifespan of SFNA-9-4 is 
significantly extended, and its resistance to oxidative stress is also 
significantly elevated. These results suggest that, as in Drosophila, paraquat 
can also be used to screen for mutants with extended lifespans in Arabidopsis.

PMID: 12966735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Mycol Res. 2003 Jul;107(Pt 7):861-71. doi: 10.1017/s095375620300786x.

Nutritional influence on the ability of fungal mycelia to penetrate toxic 
metal-containing domains.

Fomina M(1), Ritz K, Gadd GM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental and Applied Biology, Biological Sciences Institute, 
School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 4HN, UK.

Metal-contaminated soils often contain a spatially heterogeneous distribution of 
metal concentrations, and the ability of fungi to colonize such 
metal-contaminated domains will be influenced by the nutritional resources 
available. An experimental system based upon tessellated agar tiles was used to 
study the influence of nutrients upon the ability of soil fungi Trichoderma 
virens and Clonostachys rosea to colonize spatially discrete toxic metal (copper 
and cadmium) containing domains. The growth parameters recorded demonstrated a 
decrease in apparent metal toxicity with increasing concentration of available 
carbon source. It was shown that maximum hyphal extension rates and the efficacy 
of carbon substrate utilization of both species decreased with increasing 
concentration of toxic metals. It was also observed that in the gap between 
metal-free and metal-containing tiles, the presence of toxic metals led to 
negative chemotropic reactions and cessation of growth, swelling and lysis of 
some hyphal tips. Penetration of the hyphae into the metal-containing domain was 
often followed by the formation of very dense mycelia or mycelial 'bushes' 
representing an associative (constraining, exploitative or 'phalanx') growth 
strategy of the mycelial system. After the fungi entered the toxic 
metal-containing domains, they often produced long sparsely-branched or 
branchless explorative hyphae representing a dissociative (expansive, 
explorative or 'guerrilla') growth strategy. Our data therefore demonstrate that 
fungi efficiently use both 'phalanx' and 'guerrilla' states of the mycelial 
system as well as shifts in these growth strategies as a response to toxic metal 
stress combined with nutritionally-poor conditions.

DOI: 10.1017/s095375620300786x
PMID: 12967214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. N Engl J Med. 2003 Sep 11;349(11):1048-55. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa020614.

Health, life expectancy, and health care spending among the elderly.

Lubitz J(1), Cai L, Kramarow E, Lentzner H.

Author information:
(1)Office of Analysis, Epidemiology, and Health Promotion, National Center for 
Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 
20782, USA. jlubitz@cdc.gov

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Sep 11;349(11):1084-5.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy among the elderly has been improving for many 
decades, and there is evidence that health among the elderly is also improving. 
We estimated the relation of health status at 70 years of age to life expectancy 
and to cumulative health care expenditures from the age of 70 until death.
METHODS: Using the 1992-1998 Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey, we classified 
persons' health according to functional status and whether or not they were 
institutionalized and according to self-reported health. We used multistate 
life-table methods and microsimulation to estimate life expectancy for persons 
in various states of health. We linked annual health care expenditures with 
transitions between health states.
RESULTS: Elderly persons in better health had a longer life expectancy than 
those in poorer health but had similar cumulative health care expenditures until 
death. A person with no functional limitation at 70 years of age had a life 
expectancy of 14.3 years and expected cumulative health care expenditures of 
about 136,000 dollars (in 1998 dollars); a person with a limitation in at least 
one activity of daily living had a life expectancy of 11.6 years and expected 
cumulative expenditures of about 145,000 dollars. Expenditures varied little 
according to self-reported health at the age of 70. Persons who were 
institutionalized at the age of 70 had cumulative expenditures that were much 
higher than those for persons who were not institutionalized.
CONCLUSIONS: The expected cumulative health expenditures for healthier elderly 
persons, despite their greater longevity, were similar to those for less healthy 
persons. Health-promotion efforts aimed at persons under 65 years of age may 
improve the health and longevity of the elderly without increasing health 
expenditures.

Copyright 2003 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa020614
PMID: 12968089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. N Engl J Med. 2003 Sep 11;349(11):1084-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe038129.

Disability and the future of Medicare.

Cutler DM.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2003 Sep 11;349(11):1048-55.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe038129
PMID: 12968093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Resuscitation. 2003 Sep;58(3):329-35. doi: 10.1016/s0300-9572(03)00153-9.

Results of the introduction of an automated external defibrillation programme 
for non-medical personnel in Galicia.

Lobatón CR(1), Varela-Portas Mariño J, Iglesias Vázquez JA, Rodríguez MD.
