
Author information:
(1)Fundación Pública Urxencias Sanitarias de Galicia-061, Hospital Psiquiátrico 
de Conxo, 15706 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the plan and development of a programme for the 
introduction of automated external defibrillation for non medical personnel and 
to report the results of the first 10 months of activity in a community which is 
predominently rural, such as Galicia.
METHODS: The plan for introduction of the project included aspects of logistics, 
training and control. We studied cardiac arrests, that were treated in basic 
life support ambulances (BLS-A) equipped with automated external defibrillators 
(AEDs), from 1st March to 31st December 2001.
RESULTS: Our community benefits from pioneering legislation in Spain. During the 
10 months of study, 28 AEDs were in service, mostly in urban areas. In all 
cases, a thorough control of the quality of the service in which AEDs was used 
was carried out. 12% of the patients, who were victims of sudden cardiac death 
(SCD) and were found in ventricular fibrillation (VF), survived and were 
discharged from hospital. However, the percentage of patients found in VF is 
only around 26%. This is due to long assistance intervals (from the call to the 
arrival on site), and an important delay from the moment when circulatory 
collapse takes place until the emergency service 061 is called, more than 5 min 
in half the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The programme followed for the introduction of AEDs in Galicia was 
adapted to the socio-demographic characteristics of the population. The 
prehospital emergency assistance model was developed, executed and controlled by 
the Public Emergency Health Foundation of Galicia 061 (PEHF-061). The overall 
results of our first 10 months experience with the automated external 
defibrillation programme were as to be expected. In general, they are comparable 
to other published reports; however, ways of shortening the times from the point 
of collapse to defibrillation must be found, mainly by training the population 
and through the extension of automated external defibrillation provision to 
other first responders.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-9572(03)00153-9
PMID: 12969611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Br Dent J. 2003 Aug 23;195(4):181-4. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4810434.

General medicine and surgery for dental practitioners. Part 7: renal disorders.

Greenwood M(1), Meechan JG, Bryant DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, The Dental School, Framlington 
Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE 4BW. beryl.leggatt@ncl.ac.uk

Patients with kidney disorders are increasingly encountered in dental practice 
due to improvements in medical care leading to prolonged life expectancy. In 
order to provide appropriate and safe dental care for these patients it is 
important to have a working knowledge of renal disorders and related problems.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4810434
PMID: 12970692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Soz Praventivmed. 2003;48(4):214-5. doi: 10.1007/s00038-003-3078-3.

Public health models for the future.

Beaglehole R.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-003-3078-3
PMID: 12971107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Soz Praventivmed. 2003;48(4):242-51. doi: 10.1007/s00038-003-2052-4.

A public health model of the social determinants of health.

Ansari Z(1), Carson NJ, Ackland MJ, Vaughan L, Serraglio A.

Author information:
(1)Health Surveillance and Evaluation Section, Public Health Group (PHG), 
Department of Human Services (DHS), Melbourne. zahid.ansari@dhs.vic.gov.au

As we move forward in the new century, epidemiologists and public health 
practitioners are faced with the challenge of reviewing the current direction of 
epidemiology and its links with public health. While the history of epidemiology 
has been a successful and productive one, there is a danger that modern 
epidemiology is becoming too narrow in its scope, concerned primarily with the 
analysis of risk factors in individuals, while ignoring sociological and 
ecological perspectives of health. We argue that a theoretical framework to 
guide the practice of epidemiology is needed which encompasses a role for social 
determinants of health while simultaneously also acknowledging the importance of 
behaviour and biology, and the inter-connectedness of all these factors. This 
paper presents a public health model of social determinants of health, which 
provides a framework for testing the causal pathways linking social determinant 
variables with health care system attributes, disease inducing behaviours and 
health outcomes. This approach provides an improved opportunity to identify and 
evaluate evidence-based public health interventions, and facilitates stronger 
links between modern epidemiology and public health practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-003-2052-4
PMID: 12971112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Environ Geochem Health. 2003 Sep;25(3):325-45. doi: 10.1023/a:1024573701073.

Health risks of gold miners: a synoptic review.

Eisler R(1).

Author information:
(1)US Geological Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, 11510 American Holly 
Drive, Laurel, MD 20708-4019, USA. ronald_eisler@usgs.gov

Health problems of gold miners who worked underground include decreased life 
expectancy; increased frequency of cancer of the trachea, bronchus, lung, 
stomach, and liver; increased frequency of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB), 
silicosis, and pleural diseases; increased frequency of insect-borne diseases, 
such as malaria and dengue fever; noise-induced hearing loss; increased 
prevalence of certain bacterial and viral diseases; and diseases of the blood, 
skin, and musculoskeletal system. These problems are briefly documented in gold 
miners from Australia, North America, South America, and Africa. In general, HIV 
infection or excessive alcohol and tobacco consumption tended to exacerbate 
existing health problems. Miners who used elemental mercury to amalgamate and 
extract gold were heavily contaminated with mercury. Among individuals exposed 
occupationally, concentrations of mercury in their air, fish diet, hair, urine, 
blood, and other tissues significantly exceeded all criteria proposed by various 
national and international regulatory agencies for protection of human health. 
However, large-scale epidemiological evidence of severe mercury-associated 
health problems in this cohort was not demonstrable.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024573701073
PMID: 12971253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Health News. 2003 Aug;9(8):9.

Live longer with a "big fat Greek diet".

[No authors listed]

PMID: 12971321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Arch Pediatr. 2003 Sep;10(9):787-90. doi: 10.1016/s0929-693x(03)00411-1.

[Malignant pertussis in the young infant].

[Article in French]

Pilorget H(1), Montbrun A, Attali T, Tiran-Rajaofera I, Bony C, Brayer C, 
Sampériz S, Alessandri JL.

Author information:
(1)Réanimation néonatale et pédiatrique, CHD Félix-Guyon, 97405 Saint-Denis 
cedex, La Réunion, France. neonat@chd-fguyon.fr

Pertussis remains in France the first cause of bacterial, infectious death in 
infant aged 10 days to 2 months. It is especially in this age group that 
malignant pertussis occurs.
CASE REPORT: A 40-day-old infant was admitted in the intensive care unit with 
symptoms of bronchiolitis along with a 200 bpm permanent tachycardia. He 
presented a marked leukocytosis with lymphocytosis. On the second day, 
convulsions and coma occurred, followed rapidly by respiratory failure, with a 
subsequent deterioration due to the development of severe pulmonary 
hypertension. Circulatory failure caused the infant's death on the beginning of 
the 5th day. Pertussis was confirmed by PCR on nasopharyngeal swab. 
Intra-familial contamination was most likely.
COMMENTS: Malignant pertussis is characterized by the very young age of 
patients, permanent tachycardia sine materia, dyspnea with early respiratory 
failure, frequent neurological symptoms, severe hyperleukocytosis and 
hyperlymphocytosis, and deep hyponatremia with oliguria and edema. Mortality 
remains superior to 75% despite the various treatments and life support measures 
that have been attempted. Adult pertussis, which represents one third of the 
cases of prolonged cough in this age group, is the main source of contamination 
of non-immunized young infants. This mode of transmission stresses the 
importance of the generalization of pertussis vaccine booster in early 
adolescence, which is recommended in France since 1998. Its extension towards 
the adult age is under study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0929-693x(03)00411-1
PMID: 12972206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Med Care. 2003 Sep;41(9):1065-73. doi: 10.1097/01.MLR.0000083748.86769.A9.

Accounting for deaths in longitudinal studies using the SF-36: the performance 
of the Physical Component Scale of the Short Form 36-item health survey and the 
PCTD.

Diehr P(1), Patrick DL, McDonell MB, Fihn SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7232, 
USA. pdiehr@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Commonly used measures such as the Physical Component Scale of the 
Short Form 36-item health survey (PCS) are undefined at death, limiting 
longitudinal analyses to survivors, a healthier cohort that cannot be identified 
prospectively, and that might have had little change in health. One proposed 
approach is to transform the PCS into the Physical Component Transformed, with 
Deaths included (PCTD), which is the probability of being healthy 1 year later 
and for which deaths logically have a value of zero. Data missing for other 
reasons than death have not been considered.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the performance of the PCTD, to determine the influence of 
including deaths, the additional effects of imputing missing values and 
adjusting for covariates, and the calibration of the PCTD in different 
populations.
METHODS: We imputed missing values of the PCTD, calling the new variable the 
PCTDI. We compared the distributions of the PCS, PCTD, and PCTDI 
cross-sectionally and over time. In 3 different populations, we determined 
whether the PCTD accurately predicted the probability of being healthy 1 year 
later.
RESULTS: The patients who died did not have extreme values on the PCTD. The 
experience of the cohort was best described by the PCTDI. The calibration of the 
PCTD was surprisingly good in all the populations examined. Results were similar 
for the physical function index.
CONCLUSION: The PCTDI is an improvement over the PCS, in which patients who had 
died have no influence, and over the PCTD, where they might have too much 
influence. We recommend the PCTDI for longitudinal analyses of physical health 
when deaths occur, for primary or secondary analysis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.MLR.0000083748.86769.A9
PMID: 12972846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2003 Jun;14(6):882-6.

[Influences of petrophytia moss on vegetation development in evergreen 
broad-leaved forest].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Z(1), Fang Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210039, China. 
wangzs@nju.edu.cn

In order to examine the role of Petrophytia moss in maintaining the stability 
and integrity of forest vegetation, the distribution patterns of vascular plants 
among Petrophytia moss layer were investigated in five heterogeneous patches of 
evergreen broad-leaved forest at Longwangshan, Zhejiang Province. The 
distribution and composition of vascular plants were jointly affected by various 
factors, such as disturbance degree in patch, moss growth condition, and water 
and soil conservation ability of moss layer. Original habitats patch 1 and patch 
5 were kept well, and hence, the even depth, dry weight and maximum 
water-holding capacity of moss layer, as well as the dry weight of soil and the 
soil water-absorbing rate in moss layer for patch 1 and patch 5 were much more 
than other patches. For example, the even depth (cm) of moss layer were 
decreased in the order of patch 5(2.2) > patch 1(2.0) > patch 2(1.5) > patch 
3(1.1) > patch 4(0.9); the ranking of vascular plant diversities among moss 
layer in each patch was patch 5(16) > patch 1(14) > patch 3(9) > patch 4(7), and 
the general cover of these plants was followed as patch 3(30.0%) > patch 
1(28.5%) > patch 5 (26.5%) > patch 2 (17.0%) > patch 4(4.5%). It was concluded 
that Petrophytia moss had the roles of reserving water and soil, holding litter, 
concentrating nutrient elements, and corrupting rock, which could improve the 
environmental condition of rock surface, help to the regeneration of vascular 
plants, and bring positive effects on the restoration or conversation of 
vegetation in disturbance sites and on the extension of forest scale.

PMID: 12973989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2003 Aug;25(4):427-30.

[Clinical features and prognostic factors of malignant ovarian teratoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Jin FM(1), Zhu GZ, Feng YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital of Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200011, China.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical features and prognostic factors of malignant 
ovarian teratoma.
METHODS: Eighty-four patients with malignant ovarian teratoma between 1954 and 
2001 were studied retrospectively. All patients were treated with surgery, the 
mid-period of follow-up was 146 months. Patient characteristics, surgical 
therapy, pathologic diagnosis, histological grade, and follow-up data were 
extracted and survival curves were depicted. Statistical analysis was performed 
using SPSS software version 10.0.
RESULTS: The average age was (33.5 +/- 16.1) years. Abdominal pain and abdominal 
extension were the main complaint. Thirty-seven women were diagnosed with 
malignant transformation of ovarian teratoma while 47 were of ovarian immature 
teratoma. Clinical stage was the only prognostic factor with significantly 
statistical differentiation. Five-year survival rate of malignant ovarian 
teratoma with stage I, II, III, and IV were (87.20 +/- 4.52)%, (50.00 +/- 
35.36)%, (30.55 +/- 9.43)%, and 0.00%, respectively (P = 0.00). Five-year 
survival rate of ovarian immature teratoma with histological grade I, II, and 
III were (90.48 +/- 6.41)%, (68.75 +/- 11.59)%, and (57.14 +/- 16.38)%, 
respectively (P = 0.08). Among 31 women died of malignant ovarian teratoma, 27 
(87.1%) died within 2 years after operation.
CONCLUSION: This retrospective study suggests that malignant transformation of 
ovarian teratoma is clinically different from ovarian immature teratoma. 
Complete staging surgery or Debulking surgery followed by 4-6 courses adjuvant 
chemotherapy with cisplatin, vincristine, and bleomycin are the principle 
treatment. Conservative surgery may well improve the life quality of younger 
patients. All patients should be closely followed up for at least 2 years.

PMID: 12974088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Coll Antropol. 2003 Jun;27(1):23-46.

Sex differences in bone loss--an evolutionary perspective on a clinical problem.

Stini WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Arizona, Tucson, USA.

The dramatic increase in the world's population that has occurred over the past 
100 years has come largely through reductions in death due to infectious 
disease. An epidemiologic transition to a preponderance of deaths due to 
degenerative conditions such as cardiovascular disease and cancer is occurring 
in the developing countries as well as in the industrialized ones. In the 
industrialized countries, demographic profiles now reflect the increased life 
expectancies of both sexes. However, female life expectancies exceed male by six 
or more years. Further change in mortality patterns will accompany success in 
the reduction of the number of mortalities attributable to such degenerative 
conditions as cardiovascular disease and cancer. In the 21st century, conditions 
associated with sensescence will be of increasing concern. Adaptive strategies 
that enhanced reproductive success throughout most of human evolution may now 
prove detrimental to human health as average life expectancies reach 
unprecedented length. In this environment, differences in the survival 
mechanisms deployed by males as opposed to females will become increasingly 
important.

PMID: 12974131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Oral Dis. 2003;9 Suppl 1:30-7. doi: 10.1034/j.1601-0825.9.s1.6.x.

Microbial shifts after subgingival debridement and formation of bacterial 
resistance when combined with local or systemic antimicrobials.

Quirynen M(1), Teughels W, van Steenberghe D.

Author information:
(1)Catholic University of Leuven, Faculty of Medicine, Research Group for 
Microbial Adhesion, Department of Periodontology, School of Dentistry, Oral 
Pathology & Maxillo-facial Surgery, Leuven, Belgium. 
Marc.Quirynen@med.kuleuven.ac.be

Antibiotics have played a major role in the improvement of life expectancy in 
the last 50 years and have led many to believe that bacterial infections were 
about to vanish as a disease entity of any importance. Emerging problems 
resulting from a widespread use of antibiotics have modified the general 
perception of the capabilities of antimicrobial agents. Over the years, bacteria 
have become increasingly resistant to formerly potent antimicrobial agents, 
including some antiseptics. The use of antimicrobials may also disturb the 
delicate ecological equilibrium of the body, allowing the proliferation of 
resistant bacteria or non-bacterial micro-organisms. This shift may initiate new 
infections that are worse than the ones originally treated. No antimicrobial 
drug is absolutely non-toxic and the use of an agent carries accompanying risks. 
This paper discusses the development and occurrence of antimicrobial resistance 
in the subgingival flora towards antiseptics and local or systemic antibiotics 
and is focussed on the question: how can the outcome of periodontal therapy 
with/without antimicrobials be improved?

DOI: 10.1034/j.1601-0825.9.s1.6.x
PMID: 12974528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Clin Genet. 2003 Oct;64(4):361-5. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2003.00146.x.

Ring chromosome 17: phenotype variation by deletion size.

Shashi V(1), White JR, Pettenati MJ, Root SK, Bell WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics/Medical Genetics, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. vshashi@wfubmc.edu

Ring chromosome 17 is a rare cytogenetic abnormality, with 12 previous reports 
in the literature. Some have a relatively mild phenotype characterized by 
seizures, mental retardation, skin changes and short stature. Other patients 
have Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS), which includes lissencephaly, multiple 
dysmorphic features, severe mental retardation and shortened life expectancy. We 
describe two new cases of ring chromosome 17 and review the literature. Our 
cases and the other reports of patients without a deletion encompassing the 
Miller-Dieker region, delineate a fairly distinctive subgroup of individuals 
with ring 17, whose phenotype consists of growth and mental retardation, 
seizures, minor dysmorphic features, café-au-lait spots and retinal flecks. This 
classification of ring 17 into two distinct groups based on the size of the 
deletion and the phenotypic manifestations should facilitate clinical suspicion 
of this rare chromosomal abnormality.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0004.2003.00146.x
PMID: 12974742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Tip Fak Mecm. 1952;15(1):178-96.

[Life tables for urban Istanbul].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

YALIM ZR, KIRAY IZ, HANER N.

PMID: 12984436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Arch Kreislaufforsch. 1952 Sep;18(7-10):301-22.

[Blood pressure and hereditary life expectancy].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

WEISS A.

PMID: 12986786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Dtsch Med J. 1952 Aug 15;3(15-16):359-60.

[The reported longevity in Bulgaria].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

FREUDENBERG K.

PMID: 12988968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Feldsher Akush. 1952 Dec;38(12):3-10.

[Struggle for longevity].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

ROKHLINA ML.

PMID: 12998662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Am Diet Assoc. 1952 Jul;28(7):628-32.

Early speculations on diet and longevity. I.

BEEUWKES AM.

PMID: 12999469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Am Diet Assoc. 1952 Aug;28(8):707-10.

Early speculations on diet and longevity. II.

BEEUWKES AM.

PMID: 12999476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Tn State Med Assoc. 1952 Dec;45(12):485-7.

The surgical treatment of hypertension: effect of sympathectomy on life 
expectancy.

WILSON H.

PMID: 13011825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Entret Bichat Med Entret Bichat. 1952 Dec;33(12):5-9.

[Pathology and physiology: notes on longevity].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

BINET L.

PMID: 13024310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Sven Lakartidn. 1952 Oct 24;49(43):2639-51.

[Differences in morbidity and mortality in men and women].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

PERMAN E.

PMID: 13028923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Am J Pharm Sci Support Public Health. 1953 Mar;125(3):79-88.

The silent revolution.

KLUMPP TG.

PMID: 13040495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Br Heart J. 1953 Apr;15(2):121-9. doi: 10.1136/hrt.15.2.121.

The incidence and life expectation of children with congenital heart disease.

MACMAHON B, MCKEOWN T, RECORD RG.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.15.2.121
PMCID: PMC479477
PMID: 13041990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Hum Biol. 1953 Feb;25(1):3-12.

Some vital statistics based on skeletal material.

GOLDSTEIN MS.

PMID: 13061045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1953;277:269-91.

[Duration of the human life, its influence on the life insurance and prevention 
of aging].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

VOUTE PA.

PMID: 13065046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1953;277:292-373.

[Duration of the human life; its influence on the life insurance and prevention 
of aging].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

FIANDACA S.

PMID: 13065047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1953;277:374-80.

[The present duration of the human life; its influence on the life insurance and 
prevention of premature aging].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

KAUFMANN F.

PMID: 13065048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1953;277:381-90.

[Duration of the human life, its influence on the life insurance and prevention 
of aging].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

GOFFIN J.

PMID: 13065049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1953;277:393-7.

[Improvement of life expectancy by' medical research; vitalizing medicine].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

SCHMITZ KL.

PMID: 13065050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. C R Hebd Seances Acad Sci. 1953 Jun 22;236(25):2361-4.

[Statistical study of the longevity of Parisians during the last half-century 
(1900-1950)].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

BINET L, BESSON A.

PMID: 13067360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Ugeskr Laeger. 1953 Mar 19;115(12):473-4.

[Life expectancy in Copenhagen 1933-47].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

HEIBERG P.

PMID: 13077907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Conn State Med J. 1953 Sep;17(9):760-1.

The challenge of our aging population.

McKAIN WC.

PMID: 13083002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. N Engl J Med. 1953 Oct 1;249(14):553-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM195310012491402.

Length of life and cause of death in rheumatoid arthritis.

COBB S, ANDERSON F, BAUER W.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM195310012491402
PMID: 13087647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Am Med Assoc. 1953 Dec 12;153(15):1379-80. doi: 
10.1001/jama.1953.02940320051021.

Death and distinction.

POYNTON O.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.1953.02940320051021
PMID: 13108614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. N Engl J Med. 1953 Dec 31;249(27):1126-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM195312312492711.

The fragile male.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM195312312492711
PMID: 13111427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Rev Pathol Gen Physiol Clin. 1953 Jul;53(650):894-7.

[Mortality and matrimony].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

MOINE M.

PMID: 13112939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1953 Nov 3-10;137(32-33):535-8.

[The familial character of longevity].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

RENAUD M, TILITCHEEF.

PMID: 13115778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Calif Med. 1954 Jan;80(1):1-5.

Present status of serological tests for cancer.

STEIN JJ.

The cancer problem is increasing as life expectancy increases and greater 
portions of the populace live to the age at which cancer is more likely. Early 
diagnosis still is difficult. Even with modern methods and with considerable 
public education with regard to cancer, the disease is often not diagnosed until 
it is beyond the stage at which cure might be effected. The need for a 
serodiagnostic test for general screening purposes for cancer detection is 
tremendous. The major objective of cancer serodiagnostic test methods is to 
discover a general test that will detect cancer in a high percentage of cases 
while it is in an early stage; that will give few "false positive" results; that 
can be done in any laboratory; and that is simple and inexpensive. Many 
serodiagnostic tests for cancer have been published but none has proven worthy 
of being a good general test to detect cancer. Yet unless some serodiagnostic 
test which will be suitable for general screening purposes is developed, it is 
difficult to see how there can be much improvement in the early diagnosis of 
cancer, particularly internal cancer. It is hoped that an open-minded attitude 
will be maintained by physicians on this subject. Recent reports of such a test 
being developed are encouraging and it is hoped that continued investigations 
will be confirmatory.

PMCID: PMC1532696
PMID: 13116019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Gastroenterologia. 1953 Oct;80(4):193-203. doi: 10.1159/000199942.

Nutrition in relation to aging.

McCAY CM.

DOI: 10.1159/000199942
PMID: 13117200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Presse Med (1893). 1953 Nov 7;61(71):1456.

[The use of alcoholic beverages in man, even when always moderate, shortens 
life].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

ARNOULD E.

PMID: 13120760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Can Med Assoc J. 1954 Feb;70(2):170-2.

Some opinions on longevity.

SEGALL HN.

PMCID: PMC1825307
PMID: 13126866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Helv Physiol Pharmacol Acta. 1953;11(3):323-8.

[Some other fatty acids with vitamin F effect].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

BERNHARD K, GLOOR U.

PMID: 13128629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(14):991-1000. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200321140-00001.

Cost-effectiveness league tables: valuable guidance for decision makers?

Mauskopf J(1), Rutten F, Schonfeld W.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Strategy, RTI Health Solutions, Research 
Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. jmauskopf@rti.org

This paper asks the question 'are cost-effectiveness league tables a good way to 
provide information to decision makers about the value of new healthcare 
interventions?' League tables that rank alternative healthcare interventions 
based on their incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) are seen by 
economists as a valuable tool to inform decision makers about the allocation of 
scarce healthcare resources. However, league tables frequently compare ICERs 
from studies that have computed these ratios using different methods and 
assumptions including choice of comparator, choice of discount rate, time 
horizon, and population subgroup. The methodological differences among studies 
may influence the ranking of the studies and therefore decisions made using the 
league table. In addition, league tables generally do not include measures of 
the uncertainty of the cost-effectiveness estimates. In this paper, a reference 
case approach is proposed for the computation of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio and an expanded set of measures is proposed for 
inclusion in the league table. In addition, a central repository for reference 
case expanded league tables is suggested so that decision makers can use them 
more effectively and more consistently.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321140-00001
PMID: 13129413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(14):1001-24. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200321140-00002.

Cystic fibrosis: cost of illness and considerations for the economic evaluation 
of potential therapies.

Krauth C(1), Jalilvand N, Welte T, Busse R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Social Medicine and Health System Research, 
Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. krauth.christian@mh-hannover.de

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-shortening inherited disease of the 
Caucasian race, with a prevalence of around 1 in 2500 live births. Advances in 
the treatment and management of respiratory and pancreatic disorders have 
dramatically increased the life expectancy of patients with CF. This article 
presents an overview of cost-of-illness studies of CF, identifies deficits in 
the available health economic analyses of CF and discusses which specific 
factors are essential for the economic evaluation of potential therapies, based 
on a critical review of the health economic literature on two main therapeutic 
strategies. Cost-of-illness studies of CF have predominantly been restricted to 
direct costs. According to the literature, direct costs amount to between 6200- 
16300 US dollars (1996 values) per patient per year. As most studies likely 
underestimated the actual costs (e.g. by disregarding provision of certain 
healthcare services), real healthcare costs tend to be at the upper end of the 
cost range. Healthcare costs depend on the patient's age (for adults, costs are 
approximately twice as high as for children), the grade of severity (the cost 
relationship of severe to mild CF is between 4.5 and 7.1) and other factors. 
Lifetime direct costs of CF are estimated at 200 000-300000 US dollars (at 1996 
values and a discount rate of 5%). Home intravenous (IV) antibacterial therapy 
and recombinant human DNase (rhDNase; dornase alfa) treatment are the two main 
therapeutic strategies most often evaluated in health economic studies of CF. 
While home IV antibacterial therapy (compared with inpatient IV antibacterial 
therapy) is assumed to be cost saving, rhDNase treatment is a very 
cost-intensive therapy intended to efficiently achieve health improvements. 
Health economic analyses of future CF therapeutic technologies should present 
explicit data regarding healthcare services provision, resource consumption and 
unit costs. Indirect costs and patient costs should be considered more often 
than they have to date, particularly when they are significantly influenced by 
novel CF technologies. The perspective of health economic studies should be 
stated explicitly and always include the societal perspective. More economic 
studies should be based on a controlled, and preferably randomised, design. The 
observation period must be long enough to identify long-term effects of 
interventions. A greater number of effectiveness studies should be performed to 
determine costs and outcomes of therapies applied under everyday life conditions 
for patients with CF. Finally, international comparison studies should identify 
the influence of different healthcare systems on the costs and outcomes of 
interventions.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321140-00002
PMID: 13129414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Pharmacoeconomics. 2003;21(14):1025-37. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200321140-00003.

Pharmacoeconomics of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Jönsson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Occupational Therapy and Elderly Care Research 
(NEUROTEC), Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. linus.j@healtheconomics.se

Cholinesterase inhibitors constitute one of few treatment options available for 
Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia. The modest effects and 
relatively high acquisition costs of these drugs make the health economics of 
dementia an important subject of study. Simulation models can be used to bring 
together existing data and make predictions of the long-term cost effectiveness 
of treatment. Most models have been built around cognitive function as a key 
parameter based on the observed relationship between cognitive function and 
costs of care. Patients with more severe disease attain higher total costs of 
care. Also, these patients have a higher share of formal care costs than do 
patients with mild disease, who are usually looked after by informal caregivers. 
The valuation of unpaid care is controversial, and the choice of method may 
affect results considerably. Another important issue is the measurement of 
health-related QOL in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The few existing 
studies have used proxy respondents to elicit utility weights in different 
disease states; however, this methodology has not been validated. It is likely 
that the increased drug costs incurred by the use of cholinesterase inhibitors 
will be offset (at least partly) by savings in other healthcare costs. However, 
these results should be viewed as preliminary, since we are still awaiting data 
from long-term follow-up studies. Also, the value of treatment for patients and 
caregivers in terms of QOL improvements has yet to be established.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200321140-00003
PMID: 13129415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Stress. 2003 Sep;6(3):167-72. doi: 10.1080/10253890310001605376.

HIV-1 infection and its impact on the HPA axis, cytokines, and cognition.

Kumar M(1), Kumar AM, Waldrop D, Antoni MH, Eisdorfer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami, School 
of Medicine, FL, USA. mkumar@med.miami.edu

Immediately after infection, Human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1) enters 
the central nervous system (CNS) and is localized in highest concentration in 
the hippocampus and basal ganglia. Since these areas are associated with HPA 
axis and autonomic activities as well as cognition, it has been hypothesized 
that these functions will be impacted adversely in HIV-1 infection. In the 
treatment of HIV infection, although the highly potent antiretroviral (HAART) 
drugs have been effective in reducing peripheral viral load and prolonging life 
expectancy, these drugs do not cross the blood-brain barrier in therapeutic 
concentrations. Therefore, it has been proposed that the beneficial effects of 
HAART on the CNS will be limited. Our investigations on seropositive 
individuals, showing hypo-reactivity of the autonomic system and HPA axis 
activity suggest that HIV-1 infection is a model of chronic stress. Furthermore, 
an elevated baseline TNF-alpha level as well as its increased reactivity to an 
alpha-adrenergic challenge among HIV-1+ individuals, may lead to additional 
neurodegeneration. It is proposed that the effects of HIV-1 infection on the 
brain will have implications for neurocognitive and mental health functioning in 
seropositive individuals even in patients undergoing HAART therapy. These 
outcomes may result in the need to develop facilities for long term 
"care-giving".

DOI: 10.1080/10253890310001605376
PMID: 13129810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Arztl Wochensch. 1954 Jan 22;9(4):89-92.

[Differentiation of life expectancy in various countries].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

FREUDENBERG K.

PMID: 13138396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Br Med J. 1954 Apr 3;1(4865):773-7. doi: 10.1136/bmj.1.4865.773.

An investigation into the longevity of Cambridge sportsmen.

ROOK A.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.1.4865.773
PMCID: PMC2084826
PMID: 13140858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Dtsch Gesundheitsw. 1953 Dec 9;8(49):1492-1501.

[Acceleration and retardation of growth and their relation to longevity in man].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

KOCH EW.

PMID: 13141747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Farmaco Prat. 1953 Dec;8(12):626-33.

[Medico-social consequences of recent therapeutic progress].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

BASERGA A.

PMID: 13142022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Natl Med Assoc. 1954 Mar;46(2):83-104.

Longevity and health status of whites and nonwhites in the United States.

GOLDSTEIN MS.

PMCID: PMC2617366
PMID: 13143400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Natl Med Assoc. 1954 Mar;46(2):107-12.

Human longevity in fancy and fact.

COBB WM.

PMCID: PMC2617362
PMID: 13143402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Am J Physiol. 1954 Apr;177(1):23-6. doi: 10.1152/ajplegacy.1954.177.1.23.

Factors modifying the lifespan of mice.

SILBERBERG M, SILBERBERG R.

DOI: 10.1152/ajplegacy.1954.177.1.23
PMID: 13148336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Bull Sci Med (Bologna). 1954 Jan-Mar;126(1):84-8.

[Considerations on longevity].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

RAVA' G, TROCCOLI B.

PMID: 13160772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Gerontol. 1954 Apr;9(2):196-204. doi: 10.1093/geronj/9.2.196.

Financial significance of longevity in public assistance; a brief study of an 
old age assistance mortality caseload.

GRIFFIN JJ.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/9.2.196
PMID: 13163376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Munch Med Wochenschr. 1954 Mar 26;96(13):337-8.

[Social medicine and hygiene; social hygiene and the life problem in Europe].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

SCHMIDT-LANGE W.

PMID: 13165538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1954 Jun 5;84(23):642-5.

[Statistical studies on the cancer mortality in Switzerland. V. Structural 
changes of the Swiss population since the turn of the century].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

SCHINZ HR.

PMID: 13168336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

