
Nord E(1), Menzel P, Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):573-7.

In order to avoid undue discrimination of disabled people, we have suggested 
that all life years gained by the disabled should count as 1 in QALY 
calculations as long as the health states in question are preferred to being 
dead by those concerned. Johannesson noted that such a convention could lead to 
inconsistencies between societal and individual preferences. We believe the 
problem derives from the structure of preferences in the real world, rather than 
from our specific choice of model. The inconsistency is at any rate a much 
smaller practical problem than Johannesson suggests. Johannesson's alternative 
model has some virtues, but it does not resolve the inconsistency problem. It 
also leads to counter intuitive results.

Copyright 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.838
PMID: 14508871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Vital Health Stat 5. 2003 Jun;(11):1-55, 1-58.

Vital and health statistics: Russian Federation and United States, selected 
years 1985-2000 with an overview of Russian mortality in the 1990s.

[Article in English, Russian]

Notzon FC(1), Komarov YM, Ermakov SP, Savinykh AI, Hanson MB, Albertorio J.

Author information:
(1)Central Public Health Research Institute, Ministry of Health of Russia.

This report provides comparative vital and health statistics data for recent 
years for the Russian Federation and the United States. Statistical data for 
Russia and from the Ministry of Health of Russia and from Goskomstat, the 
central statistical organization of Russia. Information for the United States 
comes from various data systems of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention's (CDC) National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) as well as other 
parts of the Department of Health and Human Services. The initial section of the 
report summarizes information on recent mortality trends in the Russian 
Federation. During the 1990s, Russia experienced a major increase in mortality 
from 1990 to 1994, a substantial reduction in mortality from 1994 to 1998, and 
another major increase from 1998 to 2000. The mortality overview uses tables and 
figures to describe mortality changes by age group, sex, and cause of death, and 
to determine the contribution of each of these to changes in life expectancy. 
The overview also considers risk factors and other issues underlying these 
trends, in an attempt to understand the impact of major mortality determinants 
on changes in life expectancy. The section on vital and health statistics uses 
tables, figures, and commentary to present information on many different health 
measures for the populations of the two countries. Topics covered include 
population size, fertility, life expectancy, infant mortality, death rates, 
communicable diseases, and various health personnel and health resource 
measures. The commentary includes a discussion of data quality issues that 
affect the accuracy and comparability of the information presented. Data are 
provided for selected years from 1985 to 2000. In addition to national data, 
mortality information on urban and rural subgroups in Russia is provided. A 
glossary of terms at the end of the report provides additional information on 
definitions and data sources and limitations.

PMID: 14509124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Chromatogr A. 2003 Sep 12;1012(1):47-56. doi:
10.1016/s0021-9673(03)01189-0.

Enantiomeric separation using temperature-responsive chiral polymers composed of 
L-valine diamide derivatives in aqueous liquid chromatography.

Kurata K(1), Shimoyama T, Dobashi A.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Science, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachiouji, 
Tokyo 192-0392, Japan. kurata@ps.toyaku.ac.jp

This paper describes enantiomer separation by aqueous liquid chromatography 
using chiral stationary phases (CSPs) in which temperature-responsive polymers 
derived from acryloyl-L-valine N-methylamide (1) and its N,N-dimethylamide 
analogue (2) were bound on silica gel supports. The linear polymers composed of 
monomer 1 and monomer 2 are temperature-responsive in solution and their 
aggregation and extension states related to water solubility are reversible at 
particular critical temperatures. During chromatography, enantioselectivity and 
retentivity for solute enantiomers were controlled by column temperature, which 
changes the aggregation and extension states of the chiral polymers depending 
upon their interior hydrophobic nature. Two different types of CSPs were made: a 
temperature-responsive linear polymer derived from 3-mercaptopropyl silica gel, 
and another polymer cross-linked with ethylene dimethacrylate from 
3-methacryloyloxypropyl silica gel. The former CSP could separate racemic 
N-(3,5-dinitrobenzoyl(DNB))amino acid isopropyl esters. Retention of the amino 
acid derivatives was prolonged with an increase in column temperature. 
Enantioselectivity was also enhanced with temperature increase until the 
particular critical temperature. The latter, cross-linked CSP could not provide 
enantioselectivity for the amino acid derivatives in aqueous media, although the 
chiral valine diamide moieties were effective for enantiomer separation in 
non-aqueous media. The degree of hydrophobicity and volume of the bonded phase 
formed by the polymers on the support surface was determined by measuring the 
fluorescence of pyrene.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9673(03)01189-0
PMID: 14509341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. World J Surg. 2003 Jul;27(7):811-6. doi: 10.1007/s00268-003-7106-5.

Preservation of form and function during management of cancer of the larynx and 
hypopharynx.

Lefebvre JL(1), Lartigau E.

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Department, Centre Oscar Lambret, 3 Rue Frederic Combemale, 
59020 Lille, France. jl-lefebvre@o-lambret.fr

The treatment of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer has seen notable changes 
during the twentieth century. Intensive surgical research has allowed 
laryngologists to deal with almost any local extension and to propose an 
appropriate surgical procedure for each case. This surgery is able to control 
the disease in most patients locally but is limited in its indications 
(resectable diseases and operable patients). On the other hand, radiotherapy has 
been impressively improved (dosimetry, definition of target volume) and has 
become an indisputable alternative to surgery. The two approaches are comparable 
in terms of local control and functional results when dealing with early 
disease. For advanced disease, however, the debate is open between surgery, 
which is more efficient but mutilating, and radiotherapy, which can preserve the 
larynx in many instances even though it requires sometimes mutilating surgery 
for salvage. The appearance of platinum-based chemotherapy has updated this 
discussion. To date, most of the randomized comparisons of 
mutilating/nonmutilating approaches have been with induction chemotherapy 
followed by irradiation if there has been a good clinical response to the 
chemotherapy. There are other options as well that deserve evaluation (e.g., 
radiotherapy with altered fractionation or with concurrent chemotherapy), 
although surgery still seems to be indicated in certain cases. Finally, efforts 
should be made to select patients properly (based on tumor characteristics, 
clinical aspects, imaging, and biology) for the various strategies with the 
primary goal of curing the patient and secondarily to preserve laryngeal form 
and function when possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-003-7106-5
PMID: 14509512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2003 Sep;26(3):245-9. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1939.

Carotid endarterectomy in patients aged 75 and over: early results and late 
outcome.

Alozairi O(1), MacKenzie RK, Morgan R, Cooper G, Engeset J, Brittenden J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK.

BACKGROUND: The mean age of patients in the European Carotid Surgery Trial with 
greater than 70% stenosis was 62 years. With changing demographics older 
patients are increasingly being referred for carotid endarterectomy (CEA).
OBJECTIVES: To assess the complications and survival (stroke-free and overall) 
of patients over the age of 75 undergoing CEA.
METHODS: Analysis of a database, clinical records and cause of death of patients 
undergoing CEA in a single regional unit over a 7 year period (1/4/1993 until 
1/4/2000), with follow-up to April 2002. The rates of further neurological 
events were obtained from the Scottish Morbidity Record 1 (SMR 1) of hospital 
discharges. Patients referred from outside the region were excluded. Differences 
between groups were assessed by the Chi-squared test, with Yates correction and 
log-rank tests.
RESULTS: Of the 235 patients undergoing CEAs, 55 (23%) were 75 years or older. 
The post-operative neurological complication rate was 1.7% in the under 75's and 
5.4% in the older group (p < 0.05). The 30 day mortality was 1.1% (two patients) 
and 1.8% (one patient) respectively. The Kaplan-Meier estimated survival for the 
under 75's and older were 93 and 75% at 3 years and 80 and 59% at 5 years 
respectively (p < 0.001). The Kaplan-Meier estimated neurological event-free 5 
year survival for the under 75's and older patients were 96 and 82% respectively 
(p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: CEA in patients aged 75 years and over is associated with a 
significantly increased risk of stroke and death. CEA may not benefit elderly 
patients with a reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.1939
PMID: 14509885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2003 Sep;26(3):272-9. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.2008.

Leg blood flow and long-term cardiovascular prognosis in men with typical and 
atypical intermittent claudication.

Ogren M(1), Hedblad B, EngstrÃ¶m G, Janzon L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Division of Epidemiology, Lund University, 
MalmÃ¶ University Hospital, S-205 02 MalmÃ¶, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To compare leg blood flow and the long-term cardiovascular prognosis 
in men with typical and atypical intermittent claudication (IC) according to 
Rose's questionnaire.
METHODS: Leg blood flow during reactive hyperaemia was assessed at 55 years of 
age by calf plethysmography. Measurement of the systolic ankle-arm pressure 
index was used to assess the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) at 
68 years of age. Mortality and incidence of cardiac events is based on record 
linkage with regional and national registers.
RESULTS: Twenty-one (3%) out of 700 men had typical IC at 55 years of age. 
Sixteen (76%) of these had normal plethysmography, with a mean peak flow (95% 
CI) of 24.6 (19.3-30.0) ml/min/100 ml. Peak flows were similar and normal in men 
with atypical IC (mean 22.5; 95% CI 21.3-23.6) and men having no pain (mean 
23.8; 95% CI 23.1-24.4). Mortality rates were increased in men with typical IC 
but who had normal leg blood flow (49.5 deaths/1000 person years; p = 0.008), 
and men having atypical IC (35.3 deaths/1000 person years; p = 0.007) in 
comparison with men having no leg pain (27.4 deaths/1000 person years). This 
could not be accounted for by an increased cardiac event rate. The prevalence of 
PAD at 68 years of age was not increased in either of these two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Only 12% of subjects with exertional pain fulfilled all criteria 
for typical IC. Typical and atypical claudication in absence of objective 
evidence of PAD was associated with a reduced life expectancy, but not with an 
increased cardiovascular risk. To properly assess the prognosis, non-invasive 
assessment of PAD should be used in addition to questionnaires.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2002.2008
PMID: 14509890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Am Coll Health. 2003 May;51(6):227-36. doi: 10.1080/07448480309596355.

The cost effectiveness of hepatitis immunization for US college students.

Jacobs RJ(1), Saab S, Meyerhoff AS.

Author information:
(1)Capitol Outcomes Research, Alexandria, Virginia 22310, USA. 
Jake.Jacobs@CapitolOutcomesResearch.com

Hepatitis B immunization is recommended for all American children, and hepatitis 
A immunization is recommended for children who live in areas with elevated 
disease rates. Because hepatitis A and B occur most commonly in young adults, 
the authors examined the cost effectiveness of college-based vaccination. They 
developed epidemiologic models to consider infection risks and disease 
progression and then compared the cost of vaccination with economic, longevity, 
and quality of life benefits. Immunization of 100,000 students would prevent 
1,403 acute cases of hepatitis A, 929 cases of hepatitis B, and 144 cases of 
chronic hepatitis B. Hepatitis B vaccination would cost the health system $7,600 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained but would reduce societal costs by 
6%. Hepatitis A/B vaccination would cost the health system dollar 8,500 per QALY 
but would reduce societal costs by 12%. Until childhood and adolescent 
vaccination can produce immune cohorts of young adults, college-based hepatitis 
immunization can reduce disease transmission in a cost-effective manner.

DOI: 10.1080/07448480309596355
PMID: 14510025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2003 Oct;51(10):1398-403. doi: 
10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51457.x.

Prognosis communication in serious illness: perceptions of older patients, 
caregivers, and clinicians.

Fried TR(1), Bradley EH, O'Leary J.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, VA Connecticut Healthcare System and Department 
of Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. 
terri.fried@yale.edu

OBJECTIVES: To examine agreement between patients, caregivers, and clinicians 
regarding prognosis communication and to examine patients' and caregivers' 
desire for prognostic information.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey.
SETTING: Participants' homes.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred fourteen persons aged 60 and older with a limited life 
expectancy secondary to cancer, congestive heart failure, or chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease; caregivers; and clinicians.
MEASUREMENTS: Patient-clinician and caregiver-clinician agreement about the 
occurrence of prognosis discussions and patient and caregiver desire for 
prognostic information.
RESULTS: In 46% of patient/clinician and 34% of caregiver/clinician pairs, the 
clinician reported saying that the patient could die of the underlying disease, 
whereas the patient or caregiver reported no discussion. In 23% of 
patient/clinician and 30% of patient/caregiver pairs, the clinician reported 
discussing an approximate life expectancy, whereas the patient or caregiver 
reported no discussion. Of 205 patients who reported no life expectancy 
discussion, 40% did not want this discussion. Whereas 83% of those believing 
they had 1 year or less to live wanted to discuss prognosis, 79% of those 
believing they had 1 to 2 years, 53% of those believing they had 2 to 5 years, 
and 50% of those believing they had more than 5 years or who were unwilling to 
answer wanted this discussion (P=.007).
CONCLUSION: Although clinicians report that they are discussing prognosis, 
patients and caregivers frequently do not corroborate these reports. 
Furthermore, many patients do not want prognostic information. Despite previous 
reports concluding that patients want full disclosure about their illness, many 
seriously ill older persons and caregivers may not be ready or able to receive 
prognostic information.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1532-5415.2003.51457.x
PMID: 14511159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Histopathology. 2003 Oct;43(4):387-92. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2559.2003.01685.x.

Synchronous diffuse malignant mesothelioma and carcinomas in asbestos-exposed 
individuals.

Attanoos RL(1), Thomas DH, Gibbs AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, Llandough Hospital, Cardiff & Vale NHS Trust, 
Cardiff, Wales, UK. richard.attanoos@cardiffandvale.wales.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Histopathology. 2004 Sep;45(3):305-6.

AIMS: The development of synchronous diffuse malignant mesothelioma and 
carcinoma in individuals exposed to asbestos is rare. We report nine cases and 
discuss the medico-legal implications.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Five hundred patients seeking compensation for 
asbestos-related diffuse malignant mesothelioma were reviewed with access to 
post-mortem data. The study group comprised cases in which a second 
(non-mesothelial) neoplasm was identified. The study group comprised eight 
males, one female, mean age 68 years (range 60-75). All individuals gave a 
history of asbestos exposure. Synchronous malignant mesothelioma with carcinoma 
was identified in 9/500 (1.8%). Eight malignant mesotheliomas were pleural, one 
was primary peritoneal in origin. By morphological subtyping there were four 
epithelioid, three biphasic and two sarcomatoid mesotheliomas. In 6/9 (67%) the 
second tumour was a primary bronchogenic carcinoma (three adenocarcinomas, two 
squamous cell carcinomas and one small-cell carcinoma). In 3/9 (33%) the second 
tumour was a non-bronchogenic carcinoma (colonic, pancreatic and breast ductal 
adenocarcinoma). No other neoplasms were identified in the cohort of malignant 
mesotheliomas studied. Five persons had pathological evidence of asbestosis 
(four had bronchogenic carcinomas, one colorectal adenocarcinoma). Two persons 
with non-bronchogenic carcinomas had identifiable asbestos bodies but no 
interstitial fibrosis. In two cases the second neoplasms (primary bronchogenic 
squamous cell and small-cell carcinomas) were associated with diffuse 
interstitial fibrosis but no asbestos bodies were seen on light microscopy. In 
each case transmission electron microscopic mineral analysis revealed an 
asbestos fibre burden within the background population range for control 
subjects and well below that seen in cases of established asbestosis. These 
cases were considered to represent cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis in subjects 
with a history of asbestos exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Synchronous malignant mesothelioma with carcinomas in 
asbestos-exposed workers is rare and identified in 1.8% of 500 malignant 
mesotheliomas in this series. In most cases the carcinoma represents a primary 
bronchogenic neoplasm. Primary lung carcinomas are recognized to be asbestos 
related only when occurring in association with asbestosis. In this series this 
combination (bronchogenic carcinoma and asbestosis) was seen in four (0.8%) 
cases. In post-mortem cases for possible malignant mesothelioma it is important 
to identify any other neoplasia and determine whether it is related to asbestos. 
Their presence impact upon anticipated life expectancy and in the presence of 
malignant mesothelioma will affect the compensation settlement.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2559.2003.01685.x
PMID: 14511258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Nov-Dec;37(3):213-22. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4943(03)00048-7.

The compression of morbidity debate in aging: an empirical test using the 
gerontological and geriatric population studies in GÃ¶teborg, Sweden (H70).

Hessler RM(1), Eriksson BG, Dey D, Steen G, Sundh V, Steen B.

Author information:
(1)Sociology Department, University of Missouri-Columbia, 303A Middlebush Hall, 
Columbia, MO 65211, USA. hessler@missouri.edu

The H70 longitudinal study of aging, GÃ¶teborg, Sweden is used to empirically 
test the compression of morbidity theory advanced by. We reconceptualize 
compression as postponement of morbidity in the sense of decreasing amounts of 
illness for increasingly long life spans. Operationally, morbidity is defined as 
the average number of hospital days in the last year of life. The date of death 
and the date of 1-year prior to death define the risk period. The linear 
regression model with age at death, age at death squared, year of birth, and sex 
are statistically significant with the oldest having the fewest hospital days. 
The findings offer partial support for the compression of morbidity theory.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4943(03)00048-7
PMID: 14511847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Am J Hypertens. 2003 Sep;16(9 Pt 2):4S-6S. doi:
10.1016/s0895-7061(03)00969-5.

The burden of cardiovascular disease: following the link from hypertension to 
myocardial infarction and heart failure.

Black HR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical 
Center, 1700 West Van Buren, Suite 470, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. hblack@rush.edu

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is an enormous health care burden in the United 
States (US) and is responsible for approximately 40% of all US deaths annually. 
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of the continuum of CVD and is 
increasing in incidence. Between 1970 and 2000, hospital discharges for HF in 
the US increased 145%. This trend appears to be related to rising life 
expectancy and the aging of the population. Once HF develops, the long-term 
prognosis continues to be dismal.Hypertension is a major risk factor for CVD and 
the most common risk factor for the development of HF. The results of clinical 
trials such as the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent 
Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) have helped to clarify the importance of optimizing 
antihypertensive therapy to reduce CVD risks and development of HF. The trial 
also confirmed the need for multiple antihypertensive medications to reach 
recommended blood pressure (BP) goals in most patients. Aggressive lowering of 
BP is critical to help reduce the risk of CVD and help prevent the development 
of HF.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-7061(03)00969-5
PMID: 14511895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Toxicology. 2003 Oct 1;192(1):49-54. doi: 10.1016/s0300-483x(03)00253-1.

What's different about older people.

Crome P(1).

Author information:
(1)Keele University Medical School (Hartshill Campus), Thornburrow Drive, 
Stoke-on-Trent ST4 7QB, UK. p.crome@keele.ac.uk

Older people can be regarded as a marginalised group within society from a 
number of perspectives including that of health. When it comes to the use of 
medication older people have suffered from a double whammy. Not only are they 
more at risk from the adverse effects of drugs but also their involvement in 
clinical trials has been limited so that rational prescribing both to maximise 
benefit and to reduce risk has been problematic. Their special problems have 
been recognised formerly by the Department of Health in its NSF for Older People 
[National Service Framework for Older People. Department of Health, London 
(2001a)], [Medicines and Older People. Implementing medicines-related aspects of 
the NSF for Older People. Department of Health (2001b)]. Early studies focussed 
on compliance, the avoidance of poly-pharmacy and the high prevalence of adverse 
effects of drugs and the reasons for this. Studies in long-stay patients showed 
dramatic differences in pharmacokinetics between such older people and young 
healthy volunteers. Initially such differences were ascribed to age alone and 
the overall message became "start low and go slow". Studies in healthy older 
people then revealed that age differences in drug metabolism were, as a rule, 
not so marked although clearance of renally excreted drugs was reduced in line 
with the age associated decline in renal function. Including older people in 
clinical trials poses challenges. Many traditional trialists do not have ready 
access to older people, co-morbidity and poly-pharmacy are common and most 
people feel reluctant to ask older people to take part in complex and 
potentially hazardous trials. Concern about compliance is unwarranted. Adverse 
events may be more serious. Thus in a younger patient postural hypotension may 
make a subject unsteady but in an older subject the unsteadiness may lead to a 
fall, the fall to a fracture, and the fracture to poor recovery. The choice of 
end-points is crucial. Although reduction of clinical events is clearly 
important, effects on quality of life become more important as natural life 
expectancy reduces. Although regulatory bodies state that they now evidence of 
effectiveness in older people before registration there are still many examples 
of arbitrary and illogical upper age limits in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-483x(03)00253-1
PMID: 14511903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Tenn Med. 2003 Sep;96(9):423-4.

Prolonged survival in hydranencephaly: a case report.

Covington C(1), Taylor H, Gill C, Padaliya B, Newman W, Smart JR 3rd, Charles 
PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 2100 Pierce 
Avenue, Suite 352 MCS, Nashville, TN 37212, USA.

Individuals with hydranencephaly, a congenital deformity resulting in a virtual 
absence of cerebral hemispheres, generally do not survive past infancy. Two 
published cases report survival past the age of 10. We report the oldest known 
survivor at 20 years, 6 months and compare the behavioral and anatomical 
characteristics of these three cases. Finally, this condition is discussed in 
regards to the concept and implications of minimally conscious state (MCS).

PMID: 14513530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Jt Comm J Qual Saf. 2003 Sep;29(9):491-9. doi:
10.1016/s1549-3741(03)29059-6.

Determining the value of disease management programs.

Selby JV(1), Scanlon D, Lafata JE, Villagra V, Beich J, Salber PR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, 
California, USA. joe.selby@dor.kaiser.org

BACKGROUND: Increasing prevalence, rising costs, and persisting deficiencies in 
quality of care for chronic diseases pose economic and policy challenges to 
providers and purchasers. Disease management (DM) programs may address these 
challenges, but neither purchasers nor providers can assess their value. The 
potpourri of current quality indicators provides limited insight into the actual 
clinical benefit achieved. A conference sponsored by the Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality (AHRQ) and held in October 2002 explored new approaches to 
measuring and reporting the value of DM for diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS: Quantifying the value of DM requires measuring clinical benefit and net 
impact on health care costs for the entire population with diabetes. If quality 
is measured with indicators that are clearly linked to outcomes, clinical 
benefit can be estimated. Natural history models combine the expected benefits 
of improvements in multiple indicators to yield a single, composite measure, the 
quality-adjusted life-year. Such metrics could fairly express, in terms of 
survival and complications prevention, relatively disparate DM programs' 
benefits. Measuring and comparing health care costs requires data validation and 
appropriate case-mix adjustment. Comparing value across programs may provide 
more accurate assessments of performance, enhance quality improvement efforts 
within systems, and contribute generalizable knowledge on the utility of DM 
approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: Conference attendees recommended pilot projects to further explore 
use of natural history models for measuring and reporting the value of DM.

DOI: 10.1016/s1549-3741(03)29059-6
PMID: 14513673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Rev Med Chil. 2003 Jul;131(7):788-98.

[Decentralization of health care and medical teaching: the Chilean experience].

[Article in Spanish]

Goic A, Armas R.

In Chile there has been a close interaction between medical teaching and health 
care. In 1943, the University of Chile School of Medicine (founded in 1833) 
created Chairs in several public hospitals. The University of Chile School of 
Public Health (founded in 1943) played a key role in the creation in 1952 of a 
centralized National Health Service (NHS). The NHS had outpatient clinics and 
hospitals all over the country and was responsible for health care and for the 
promotion of health and disease prevention programs. In 1954, the NHS and the 
School of Medicine set up Residencies and General Practitioners programs aimed 
at improving the distribution of specialists and general practitioners 
throughout the country. In 1979, the NHS was replaced with 27 autonomous Health 
Services headed by the Ministry of Health, while the administration of primary 
care outpatient clinics was transferred to the municipal government. However, 
sanitary programs were still managed at the central level. Higher education also 
expanded and was decentralized. There are currently 60 universities and 17 
medical schools, compared to eight and six, respectively, in 1981. The number of 
students in higher education has increased by 370% in 20 years. At the present 
time, the Chilean health case system is a predominantly public system with a 
strong and sizeable private system. Sixty two percent of the population is 
covered by public health insurance, while 27% is covered by private insurance. 
New and well equipped private clinics have multiplied. Private non profit 
institutions manage the prevention and treatment of work related injuries and 
diseases. Chile's outstanding health indicators (fertility rate: 17.2 x 1,000; 
mortality: 5.4 x 1,000; maternal mortality: 2.3 x 10,000; neonatal mortality: 
4.5 x 1,000; life expectancy: 76 years) are a direct consequence of the improved 
social, cultural and economic condition of the general populations as well as of 
the sanitary programs sustained over the past half century.

PMID: 14513701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Sep;16(7):957-64. doi: 
10.1515/jpem.2003.16.7.957.

Endocrine gland abnormalities in thalassemia major: a brief review.

Mohammadian S(1), Bazrafshan HR, Sadeghi-Nejad A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, 
Iran.

Thalassemia major (beta-thalassemia) affects a significant segment of the 
population in certain areas of the world. Alterations in migration patterns have 
changed the geographic distribution of this disease and made it a worldwide 
health problem. Over the course of the past 2-3 decades hypertransfusion therapy 
has significantly increased the life expectancy, and improved the quality of 
life of these patients. At the same time there has been an increase in the 
frequency of complications of this therapy caused by iron overload. Endocrine 
gland abnormalities contributed little to the morbidity or mortality of 
beta-thalassemia in the past. As a result of hypertransfusion therapy and 
increased longevity, however, endocrinopathies have become more common and 
contribute significantly to morbidity in these patients. In this article we 
briefly review the current understanding of endocrine gland abnormalities, 
primarily caused by iron overload, in patients with thalassemia major.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem.2003.16.7.957
PMID: 14513870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Indian J Med Sci. 2003 Feb;57(2):76-81.

Years of healthy life can be increased 5-10 years, WHO says.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 14514274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Oct;14(10):2494-502. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000086473.23379.25.

Transgenic overexpression of GATA-3 in T lymphocytes improves autoimmune 
glomerulonephritis in mice with a BXSB/MpJ-Yaa genetic background.

Yoh K(1), Shibuya K, Morito N, Nakano T, Ishizaki K, Shimohata H, Nose M, Izui 
S, Shibuya A, Koyama A, Engel JD, Yamamoto M, Takahashi S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

A T helper 1 (Th1)/Th2 imbalance is thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of 
autoimmune diseases. The differentiation of T cells into Th1 or Th2 subtypes is 
under the regulation of several transcription factors. Among these, 
transcription factor GATA-3 is thought to play an indispensable role in the 
development of T cells and the differentiation of Th2 cells. To examine how a 
Th1/Th2 imbalance affects the development of autoimmune disease, GATA-3 was 
overexpressed in the T lymphocytes of C57BL/6 x BXSB/MpJ-Yaa F(1) (Yaa) mice. 
Yaa mice developed autoimmune nephritis similarly to BXSB/MpJ-Yaa mice, which 
are commonly used as a model for Th1-dominant murine lupus. GATA-3 
overexpression in T cells improved the 50% mortality incidence time for 
GATA-3-transgenic Yaa mice (41.6 wk), compared with Yaa mice (30.9 wk), and 
reduced proteinuria, serum creatinine levels, and the severity of 
glomerulonephritis in GATA-3-transgenic Yaa mice. GATA-3 overexpression in Yaa 
mice led to simultaneously elevated Th2 Ig (IgG1) and decreased Th1 Ig (IgG2a 
and IgG3) production and serum IFN-gamma levels. Although IL-4 production 
remained unchanged, intracellular cytokine analyses demonstrated that IL-5 was 
induced and IFN-gamma was suppressed in stimulated T cells from the 
GATA-3-transgenic Yaa mice. These results indicated that abundant GATA-3 was 
unable to stimulate complete differentiation of Th2 cells but did counteract the 
dominance of Th1 cells and alleviated the disease severity in Yaa mice. These 
data suggest that transcriptional regulation therapy may have potential as an 
effective strategy for treating autoimmune glomerulonephritis.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000086473.23379.25
PMID: 14514727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2003 Feb;11(1):41-4. doi: 
10.1097/00020840-200302000-00009.

Contemporary management of rhinosinusitis and cystic fibrosis.

Tandon R(1), Derkay C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, 
Virginia 23507, USA.

Historically, cystic fibrosis has been a devastating disease, with patients 
rarely living beyond childhood. Recent advances during the last two decades, 
however, have led to an improved understanding of the disease on a molecular 
level. Such understanding has in turn led to new treatments, longer life 
expectancy, as well as new challenges in the management of both pulmonary and 
extrapulmonary manifestations of cystic fibrosis. The otolaryngologist caring 
for patients with cystic fibrosis is thus challenged with the medical and 
surgical management of chronic sinusitis and sinonasal polyposis in these 
challenging circumstances.

DOI: 10.1097/00020840-200302000-00009
PMID: 14515101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2003 Oct;45(10):677-82. doi:
10.1017/s0012162203001269.

Life expectancy in pediatric patients with cerebral palsy and neuromuscular 
scoliosis who underwent spinal fusion.

Tsirikos AI(1), Chang WN, Dabney KW, Miller F, Glutting J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Athens, KAT Hospital, Athens, 
Greece.

The aim of this study was to document the rate of survival among 288 severely 
affected pediatric patients (154 females, 134 males) with spasticity and 
neuromuscular scoliosis who underwent spinal fusion (mean age at surgery 13 
years 11 months, SD 3 years 4 months), and to identify exposure variables that 
could significantly predict survival times. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was 
performed demonstrating a mean predicted survival of 11 years 2 months after 
spinal surgery for this group of globally involved children with cerebral palsy 
(CP). Cox's proportional hazards model was used to evaluate predictive efficacy 
of exposure variables, such as sex, age at surgery, level of ambulation, 
cognitive ability, degree of coronal and sagittal plane spinal deformity, 
intraoperative blood loss, surgical time, days in hospital, and days in the 
intensive care unit. Number of days in intensive care unit after surgery and the 
presence of severe preoperative thoracic hyperkyphosis were the only factors 
affecting survival rates. This demonstrated statistically significant 
predictability for decreased life expectancy after spinal fusion in children 
with CP.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162203001269
PMID: 14515939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Formos Med Assoc. 2003 Jul;102(7):459-64.

Metabolic syndrome in obese patients referred for weight reduction surgery in 
Taiwan.

Lee WJ(1), Chen HH, Wang W, Wei PL, Lin CM, Huang MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, En-Chu Kong Hospital, Taipei Hsien, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The inverse relation between life expectancy and obesity 
is in large part due to multiple metabolic and cardiovascular comorbidities. 
Metabolic syndrome (MS) is defined as a cluster of these comorbidities. The 
prevalence of MS in obesity is not clear. This investigation assessed the 
prevalence and inter-relationships of MS with various demographic and clinical 
characteristics in patients with severe obesity.
METHODS: A total of 534 obese patients referred to a surgical center for weight 
reduction surgery were included in this retrospective study. Data collected 
included blood pressure, anthropometric measurements, and biochemical parameters 
associated with metabolic comorbidities and MS. The prevalence of MS in various 
subgroups was analyzed.
RESULTS: The frequency of metabolic comorbidities included hypertension in 
29.8%, hyperglycemia in 29.0%, hyperlipidemia in 61.0%, hyperuricemia in 57.9%, 
and abnormal liver function in 60.9%. The presence of any of these 4 metabolic 
comorbidities in the absence of others was uncommon. Only 28 patients (5.2%) had 
no metabolic comorbidities. The criteria for MS were met by 217 patients 
(50.7%). Patients with MS were significantly older (32.9 years vs 29.5 years), 
more likely to be male (31.9% vs 20.5%) and more likely to have metabolic 
comorbidities compared with patients without MS. In the multivariate analysis, 
male gender, age, and abnormal liver function remained significantly associated 
with the development of MS, while body mass index (BMI) was not.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic comorbidities were common in the obese patients referred 
for weight reduction surgery. The cluster of metabolic comorbidities in MS was 
significantly associated with male gender, and increased age but not with BMI.

PMID: 14517583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Vnitr Lek. 2003 Aug;49(8):589-91.

[Growth hormone replacement in adults: improvement in quality of life or life 
span?].

[Article in Czech]

CÃ¡p J.

Comment on
    Vnitr Lek. 2003 Aug;49(8):650-5.

PMID: 14518080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2003 Oct;3(7):1173-80. doi:
10.1517/14712598.3.7.1173.

Recombinant toxin DAB389EGF is cytotoxic to human pancreatic cancer cells.

Mishra G(1), Liu TF, Frankel AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Medical 
Center Blvd, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.

Few malignancies have frustrated the persistent efforts of the oncologist like 
pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is usually unresectable at the time of 
diagnosis because of metastasis or local extension. Despite the aggressive 
nature of this deadly disease, systemic treatment options are limited. Even the 
recent introduction of the deoxycytidine analogue gemcitabine does not extend 
median survival of responders beyond a year. Clearly, alternative, more 
effective regimens are needed for treating pancreatic carcinoma. In pancreatic 
cancer, there is overexpression of growth factors and growth factor receptors, 
including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Targeted toxins consist of a 
targeting polypeptide covalently linked to a peptide toxin. DAB(389)EGF is a 
fusion protein composed of the catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria 
toxin fused via a His-Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor (EGF). The 
authors have previously shown that DAB(389)EGF is selectively toxic to 
EGFR-overexpressing cells, including human brain tumour and lung carcinoma cell 
lines. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma should be responsive to this fusion protein 
based on its EGFR overexpression. However, the cytotoxic effect of DAB(389)EGF 
on human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines has yet to be explored. The authors 
describe preliminary data showing the potent cytotoxicity of DAB(389)EGF to 
human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines. Because of the nonspecific toxicity to 
liver and kidney (which possess EGFR) of systemic administration, they also 
propose a potential novel drug delivery system for direct toxin implantation 
into pancreatic tumours using endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle injection 
(EUS-FNI). Hopefully, the use of these targeted therapeutic approaches in 
combination with other modalities may further extend survival and quality of 
life in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.3.7.1173
PMID: 14519080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Laryngoscope. 2003 Oct;113(10):1736-45. doi:
10.1097/00005537-200310000-00015.

Cost-effectiveness of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in middle ear or 
mastoid surgery.

Wilson L(1), Lin E, Lalwani A.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Economics, University of California-San Francisco, 3333 
California, Suite 420M, Box 0613, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. 
lwilson@itsa.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVES: Despite the utility of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring in 
reducing the risk of iatrogenic facial nerve injury during neurotologic surgery, 
its routine use during primary or revision surgery remains controversial. One of 
the major barriers to its acceptance is cost. This study evaluates the 
cost-effectiveness of intraoperative facial nerve monitoring during middle ear 
or mastoid surgery.
RESEARCH DESIGN/METHODS: A simple decision analytic cost-effectiveness model and 
a societal approach were used to evaluate three cohorts of individuals who 
received (1) intraoperative facial nerve monitoring for both primary and 
revision middle ear or mastoid surgeries, or (2) facial nerve monitoring for 
revision surgeries only, or (3) no monitoring for any middle ear or mastoid 
surgeries.
RESULTS: Our results strongly favored the use of intraoperative facial nerve 
monitoring in all patients undergoing middle ear or mastoid surgery, adding 
about $222.73 to $528.00 US dollars to the total cost. The strategy to monitor 
primary and revision surgeries had the greatest effectiveness and lowest cost, 
with an average quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of 45.68 at an average cost of 
$238 US dollars. Facial nerve monitoring in revision patients only had similar 
QALYs (45.67) and higher costs ($292.1). Finally, the strategy not to monitor 
had the lowest QALY (45.65) and highest cost ($449.8). The analysis was robust 
across a wide range of changes in both costs and probabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Facial nerve monitoring is cost-effective, and its routine use 
should be adopted to reduce the risk of iatrogenic facial nerve injury during 
otologic surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/00005537-200310000-00015
PMID: 14520099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2003 Sep;111(6):364-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2003-42728.

Clinical characterisation of severe hypoglycaemia--a prospective 
population-based study.

Holstein A(1), Plaschke A, Egberts EH.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Medicine, Klinikum Lippe-Detmold, Detmold, Germany. 
andreas.holstein@t-online.de

AIM: To determine the clinical characteristics of severe hypoglycaemia (SH) in a 
nonselected German population. SH was defined as an event requiring intravenous 
glucose or glucagon injection.
METHODS: The prospective population-based study screened sensitively for SH in a 
region with 200,000 inhabitants between 1997 and 2000. All 30,768 patients who 
presented to the regional central hospital emergency department, and 6,631 (85 
%) of 7,804 patients attended by the emergency medical service in the region 
were given an initial blood glucose test to detect atypical hypoglycaemia.
RESULTS: Altogether, 264 cases of SH were registered, which occurred either 
spontaneously (n = 14; 5 %), in subjects with type 1 (n = 92; 35 %) or type 2 
diabetes (n = 148; 56 %), or in subjects with a non-classified form of diabetes 
(n = 10; 4 %). On the basis of the estimated local number of diabetic patients 
the annual rate of SH was 1.5 episodes per 100 patients in insulin-treated type 
2 diabetics compared with a rate of 0.4 episodes per 100 patients for the 
overall group of type 2 diabetic patients. Nocturnal hypoglycaemia accounted for 
44 % of episodes in patients with type 1 diabetes on intensified therapy but for 
only 25 % in patients with type 2 diabetes. 26 % of the hypoglycaemic 
individuals with type 1 diabetes had an impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia and 
thus recurrent hypoglycaemic episodes. Irrespective of the treatment, the most 
frequent contributing factors for SH in type 2 diabetic patients were advanced 
age (76 +/- 12 years), multimorbidity (3.6 +/- 2.6 concomitant diseases)--in 
particular renal impairment (54 % [80/148])--and polypharmacy (4 +/- 2.7 
concomitant drugs). 34 % (50/148) of the subjects with type 2 diabetes lived in 
nursing homes or were cared for by a home nursing service. With standardised 
treatment zero mortality of SH in diabetic patients was achieved, only one 
non-diabetic died due to hepatic failure.
CONCLUSION: In elderly, multimorbid patients approaching the insulin-deficient 
end of the spectrum of type 2 diabetes the risk of developing SH increases 
considerably, nearing that in patients with type 1 diabetes. In order to avoid 
SH in geriatric patients, the treatment targets should be defined critically, 
taking into account individual quality of life and life expectancy. 
Hypoglycaemia unawareness is a major risk factor for SH in type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-42728
PMID: 14520604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Gen Intern Med. 2003 Oct;18(10):808-15. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20822.x.

Management of influenza symptoms in healthy adults.

Rothberg MB(1), He S, Rose DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Baystate 
Medical Center, Springfield, MA 01199, USA. Michael.Rothberg@bhs.org

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of rapid diagnostic testing and 
empiric antiviral therapy for healthy adults with symptoms of influenza.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision model based on previously 
published data. Outcome measures included costs and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy.
SETTING: Physician's office.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetically healthy, working adults < 65 years of age 
presenting with cough and fever during the influenza season.
INTERVENTIONS: Rapid testing or clinical diagnosis followed by treatment with 
amantadine, rimantadine, oseltamivir, or zanamivir compared with no antiviral 
therapy.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis: not giving antiviral therapy is the most expensive 
and least effective strategy, costing 471 dollars per patient, mostly owing to 
time lost from work. Amantadine treatment increases life expectancy by 0.0014 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) while saving 108 dollars per patient 
relative to no antiviral therapy. Zanamivir is slightly more effective than 
amantadine, adding 0.0002 QALYs at an incremental cost of 31 dollars, or 133,000 
dollars per QALY saved. All other strategies, including testing strategies, are 
both less effective and more expensive. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The model is 
sensitive to the probability of influenza infection, proportion of influenza 
caused by type B, the relative efficacy of the various drugs, and the value of a 
workday. At a clinical probability of influenza infection > 20%, antiviral 
therapy is favored. As the proportion of influenza B increases, zanamivir is 
favored over amantadine. Testing is rarely indicated. Ignoring the costs of lost 
workdays, amantadine treatment costs 1,200 dollars/QALY saved.
CONCLUSIONS: Antiviral therapy with either amantadine or zanamivir is 
cost-effective for healthy, young patients with influenza-like illness during 
the influenza season, depending on the prevalence of influenza B.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2003.20822.x
PMCID: PMC1494927
PMID: 14521643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Public Health. 2003 Nov;117(6):389-95. doi: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00146-X.

Colorectal cancer, screening and survival: the influence of socio-economic 
deprivation.

Whynes DK(1), Frew EJ, Manghan CM, Scholefield JH, Hardcastle JD.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. 
david.whynes@nottingham.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To determine the extent to which socio-economic deprivation explains 
colorectal cancer prevalence, subject participation in screening, and 
postoperative survival and life expectancy.
METHODS: Regression analyses of clinical data from a large randomized controlled 
trial, augmented by geographical-based indices of deprivation.
RESULTS: Deprivation appears to exert no significant impact on colorectal cancer 
prevalence but is a major factor explaining subject participation in screening. 
Cancer detection at later stages reduces life expectancy at time of treatment. 
Females from more-deprived areas have poorer post-treatment life expectancies 
and survival prospects, independently of their screening behaviour.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening increases the chances of having a cancer treated at an 
earlier stage, and treatment at an earlier stage is associated with longer 
subsequent life expectancy. However, those from more-deprived areas are less 
likely to accept an invitation to be screened.

DOI: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00146-X
PMID: 14522153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Public Health. 2003 Nov;117(6):424-9. doi: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00100-8.

Regional differences in healthy life expectancy in The Netherlands.

Groenewegen PP(1), Westert GP, Boshuizen HC.

Author information:
(1)Nivel-Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research, PO Box 1568, 3500 
BN Utrecht, The Netherlands. p.groenewegen@nivel.nl

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy has mainly been studied at the level of 
healthcare systems rather than at regional level within healthcare systems. In 
this article, healthy life expectancy at birth and at 65 years of age for men 
and women in the Netherlands has been described, and factors related to these 
regional variations have been explored.
METHODS: Ecological study of 27 healthcare regions (hospital catchment areas). 
Life expectancy and healthy life expectancy were calculated using 1995 mortality 
data and pooled health interview survey data (1992-1997) from Statistics 
Netherlands.
RESULTS: Healthy life expectancy shows a regional pattern, slightly different 
from that found in life expectancy and self-reported health. The regional 
distribution of male and female healthy life expectancy is different, especially 
at 65 years. Healthy life expectancy of women aged 65 years is independent of 
their total life expectancy. Social conditions and lifestyle differences between 
regions are negatively associated with healthy life expectancy in Dutch regions. 
Healthcare supply variables show no clear relationship.
CONCLUSION: Although the Netherlands is a small, homogeneous country, 
substantial differences were found in healthy life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00100-8
PMID: 14522158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Traffic Inj Prev. 2003 Mar;4(1):1-4. doi: 10.1080/15389580309849.

Global priorities for vehicle safety.

Mackay M(1).

Author information:
(1)Transport Safety, Ballagarrett, Bride, Isle of Man, United Kingdom. 
mmackay@netcomuk.co.uk

DOI: 10.1080/15389580309849
PMID: 14522654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Pediatrics. 2003 Oct;112(4):951-7. doi: 10.1542/peds.112.4.951.

Computed tomography and radiation risks: what pediatric health care providers 
should know.

Frush DP(1), Donnelly LF, Rosen NS.
