
Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA. frush943@mc.duke.edu

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2003 Oct;112(4):971-2.

Computed tomography (CT) is an extremely valuable diagnostic tool. Recent 
advances, particularly multidetector technology, have provided increased and 
more diverse applications. However, there is also the potential for 
inappropriate use and unnecessary radiation dose. Because some data indicate 
that low-dose radiation (such as that in CT) may have a significant risk of 
cancer, especially in young children, it is important to limit CT radiation by 
following the ALARA (as low as reasonably achievable) principle. There is a 
variety of strategies to limit radiation dose, including performing only 
necessary examinations, limiting the region of coverage, and adjusting 
individual CT settings based on indication, region imaged, and size of the 
child. The pediatric health care provider has a pivotal role in the performance 
of CT and may be the only individual who discusses these important CT radiation 
issues with the child and family. For this reason, this article will summarize 
the issues with CT patterns of use and radiation risk, and provide dose 
reduction strategies pertinent to pediatric health care providers.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.112.4.951
PMID: 14523191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Pediatrics. 2003 Oct;112(4):e289. doi: 10.1542/peds.112.4.e289.

Pediatric viral human immunodeficiency virus type 1 RNA levels, timing of 
infection, and disease progression in African HIV-1-infected children.

Rouet F(1), Sakarovitch C, Msellati P, Elenga N, Montcho C, Viho I, Blanche S, 
Rouzioux C, Dabis F, Leroy V; Abidjan ANRS 049 Ditrame Study Group.

Author information:
(1)CeDReS, Programme PAC-CI, CHU de Treichville, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. 
rouet@aviso.ci

OBJECTIVE: To describe plasma human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) RNA 
levels in African HIV-1-infected children in relation to the timing of infection 
and disease progression.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted of 80 children who were born 
to HIV-1-positive mothers and clinically followed from birth to 18 months of age 
in the ANRS 049 Ditrame project, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire (West Africa). The 
diagnosis and timing of pediatric HIV-1 infection were determined prospectively 
according to HIV-1 DNA polymerase chain reaction results. A total of 364 HIV-1 
RNA viral load (VL) measurements were assessed retrospectively. Kaplan-Meier 
analyses and proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the prognostic 
value of pediatric VL and covariates for HIV disease progression or death.
RESULTS: Mean initial positive VL was significantly lower among children who 
were infected in utero (4.94 log10/mL, n = 12) than in children who were 
infected later (5.6-6.1 log10/mL, n = 68). In the first 6 months after 
diagnosis, HIV-1 RNA levels peaked (> or =6 log10/mL), regardless of timing of 
infection. Then, a slow decline (overall slope, -0.076 log10 copies/mL/mo) was 
observed until 18 months of age. A 1 log10 higher value of the pediatric peak VL 
(risk ratio [RR]: 1.85; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.0-3.44) and of the 
maternal VL at delivery (RR: 1.90; CI: 1.16-3.12) were independently associated 
with an increased risk of rapid progression to acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) or death at 18 months of life (23 AIDS diagnoses and 31 deaths). 
Disease progression or death was more rapid for girls than for boys (RR: 2.26; 
CI: 1.39-4.96).
CONCLUSIONS: In Africa, pediatric HIV-1 RNA levels are very close to those 
described in industrialized countries and seem to be predictive of AIDS stage or 
death, as in industrialized countries. With antiretroviral therapy becoming more 
widely available, the early identification and monitoring of pediatric HIV 
disease remains of paramount importance in Africa.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.112.4.e289
PMID: 14523214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Support Care Cancer. 2003 Dec;11(12):769-74. doi: 10.1007/s00520-003-0537-6.
 Epub 2003 Oct 2.

Care of breast cancer in the elderly woman--what does comprehensive geriatric 
assessment (CGA) help?

Wedding U(1), Höffken K.

Author information:
(1)Hämatologie-Onkologie-Gastroenterologie-Hepatologie-Infektiologie, Klinik und 
Poliklinik für Innere Medizin II, Klinikum der Friedrich Schiller Universität, 
Erlanger Allee 101, 07747 Jena, Germany. ulrich.wedding@med.uni-jena.de

Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women in Europe and Northern America. 
Its incidence and mortality rates are increasing with advance in age. Only few 
elderly women with breast cancer are treated in clinical trials. Elderly women 
with the same numerical age are very heterogeneous considering their biological 
age. Geriatric medicine has established comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) 
to get important information on elderly patients missed by a routine clinical 
history and physical examination. The data collected in CGA are of prognostic 
relevance for mortality, morbidity, maintenance of independence and utilisation 
of health care resources. Within the last few years, some research groups have 
demonstrated that the use of CGA in elderly cancer patients collects information 
missed by the currently established workup of these patients and that this 
information is of prognostic relevance concerning toxicity of chemotherapy and 
mortality. The use of CGA in a population of general elderly patients improves 
functional status and mental health, but so far no effect on mortality could be 
demonstrated. A subgroup analysis of the elderly cancer patients within this 
trial additionally demonstrated an improvement in pain control. Special data 
concerning the use of CGA within the group of elderly breast cancer patients are 
not published so far. The authors suggest areas of care for elderly women with 
breast cancer within which the CGA might be able to improve treatment and which 
should be a field of randomised controlled trials in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-003-0537-6
PMID: 14523632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Clin Infect Dis. 2003 Oct 15;37(8):1102-6. doi: 10.1086/378302. Epub 2003
Sep  10.

Enfuvirtide (T-20): a novel human immunodeficiency virus type 1 fusion 
inhibitor.

Cervia JS(1), Smith MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, Long Island 
Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, New York, USA. cervia@lij.edu

The development of highly active antiretroviral therapy has improved life 
expectancy and reduced progression to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. However, resistance to 
currently available classes of antiretroviral drugs has become a problem, 
limiting the options for patients with advanced disease who have been heavily 
treated. Enfuvirtide (T-20; ENF), a synthetic peptide, is the first of a new 
class of antiretrovirals that block entry of virus into host cells. ENF 
interferes with conformational changes required for membrane fusion and 
injection of virus into the host cell. Optimal treatment of HIV infection will 
likely require combinations of drugs that target novel stages of HIV type 1 
entry and replication.

DOI: 10.1086/378302
PMID: 14523775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Neuron. 2003 Sep 25;40(1):65-79. doi: 10.1016/s0896-6273(03)00565-8.

Opposing FGF and retinoid pathways control ventral neural pattern, neuronal 
differentiation, and segmentation during body axis extension.

Diez del Corral R(1), Olivera-Martinez I, Goriely A, Gale E, Maden M, Storey K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
Wellcome Trust Biocentre, University of Dundee, Dow Street, Dundee DD1 5EH, 
United Kingdom.

Vertebrate body axis extension involves progressive generation and subsequent 
differentiation of new cells derived from a caudal stem zone; however, molecular 
mechanisms that preserve caudal progenitors and coordinate differentiation are 
poorly understood. FGF maintains caudal progenitors and its attenuation is 
required for neuronal and mesodermal differentiation and to position segment 
boundaries. Furthermore, somitic mesoderm promotes neuronal differentiation in 
part by downregulating Fgf8. Here we identify retinoic acid (RA) as this somitic 
signal and show that retinoid and FGF pathways have opposing actions. FGF is a 
general repressor of differentiation, including ventral neural patterning, while 
RA attenuates Fgf8 in neuroepithelium and paraxial mesoderm, where it controls 
somite boundary position. RA is further required for neuronal differentiation 
and expression of key ventral neural patterning genes. Our data demonstrate that 
FGF and RA pathways are mutually inhibitory and suggest that their opposing 
actions provide a global mechanism that controls differentiation during axis 
extension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0896-6273(03)00565-8
PMID: 14527434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Oct 14;100(21):11992-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2034879100. Epub 2003 Oct 3.

Rates of anterior tooth wear in Middle Pleistocene hominins from Sima de los 
Huesos (Sierra de Atapuerca, Spain).

Bermúdez de Castro JM(1), Martinón-Torres M, Sarmiento S, Lozano M, Arsuaga JL, 
Carbonell E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Paleobiología, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, Consejo 
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, J. Gutiérrez Abascal 2, 28006 Madrid, 
Spain.

This study presents quantitative data on the rates of anterior tooth wear in a 
Pleistocene human population. The data were obtained for the hominin sample of 
the Sima de los Huesos site in Atapuerca, Spain. The fossil record belongs to a 
minimum of 28 individuals of the same biological population, assigned to the 
species Homo heidelbergensis. We have estimated the original and the preserved 
crown height of the mandibular incisors (I1 and I2) of 11 individuals, whose age 
at death can be ascertained from the mineralization stage and tooth eruption. 
Results provide a range of 0.276-0.348 and 0.288-0.360 mm per year for the mean 
wear rate of the mandibular I1 and I2, respectively, in individuals 
approximately 16-18 years old. These data suggest that incisors' crowns would be 
totally worn out toward the fifth decade of life. Thus, we expect the life 
expectancy of this population to be seriously limited. These data, which could 
be contrasted with results obtained on hominins at other sites, could be of 
interest for estimating the death age of adult individuals.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2034879100
PMCID: PMC218701
PMID: 14528001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Comp Neurol. 2003 Nov 10;466(2):219-29. doi: 10.1002/cne.10865.

Expression of tryptophan 5-hydroxylase gene during sea urchin neurogenesis and 
role of serotonergic nervous system in larval behavior.

Yaguchi S(1), Katow H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Developmental and Cell Biology, Marine Biological Station, 
Graduate School of Life Sciences, University of Tohoku, Asamushi, Aomori, Aomori 
039-3501, Japan.

Tryptophan 5-hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis 
of serotonin. cDNA cloning of TPH was carried out, and the occurrence of 
spatiotemporal transcription of TPH message was examined in larvae of the sea 
urchin, Hemicentrotus pulcherrimus (HpTPH), with in situ hybridization by using 
the tyramide signal amplification (TSA) technique and Northern hybridization. 
Based on deduced amino acids sequence of HpTPH, phylogenetically sea urchin 
locates at the closest position to vertebrates among invertebrates, and HpTPH 
had common conserved sequences in a catalytic domain. Initiation of HpTPH 
transcription occurred at the late gastrula stage exclusively in serotonin cells 
of apical ganglion (SAG) that was composed of a cluster of HpTPH-positive cells 
and the negative cells in between. In situ hybridization showed that the mRNA 
expression pattern was similar to the immunohistochemical localization of 
serotonin cells reported before (Bisgrove and Burke [1986] Dev. Growth Differ. 
28:557-569; Yaguchi et al. [2000] Dev. Growth Differ. 42:479-488). 
p-Chlorophenylalanine (CPA), an irreversible inhibitor of TPH activity, 
considerably decreased serotonin content in the serotonin cells, whereas the 
HpTPH expression pattern and timing, and the extension of neurofibers from SAG 
cells were apparently unaffected, suggesting CPA exclusively perturbed synthesis 
of serotonin but not nervous system organization. CPA-treated larvae did not 
swim, despite the occurrence of ciliary beating in culture chamber, suggesting 
that proper serotonin synthesis is necessary for normal swimming of the larvae.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10865
PMID: 14528449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. NeuroRehabilitation. 2003;18(3):261-70.

Life expectancy for children with cerebral palsy and mental retardation: 
implications for life care planning.

Katz RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Washington University 
School of Medicine, 4660 Maryland Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA. 
pianodoctor@pol.net

OBJECTIVES: Physicians may be asked by attorneys or other patient advocates to 
help plan for the long-term needs of children with cerebral palsy (CP) and 
developmental disability (DD). The first step in such planning is to thoroughly 
examine the literature dealing with life expectancy in these populations. This 
review paper comprehensively reviews the literature relating to survival in 
children with cerebral palsy and developmental disability.
STUDY SELECTION: A Medline data search was completed using the terms cerebral 
palsy, life expectancy, survival, as well as other pertinent terms. Further 
articles were gleaned from bibliographies of pertinent literature.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Certain key disabilities can be used to accurately predict life 
expectancy in children with cerebral palsy and mental retardation. These 
include: (1) presence and severity of mental retardation, (2) inability to speak 
intelligible words, (3) inability to recognize voices, (4) inability to interact 
with peers, (4) severity of physical disability, (5) use of tube feeding, (6) 
incontinence, and (7) presence and severity of seizures.
CONCLUSIONS: Literature review definitively shows that children with CP and DD 
have a diminished life expectancy, which can be assessed based on simple 
clinical examination findings.

PMID: 14530591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Am J Nurs. 2003 Oct;103(10):36-46; quiz 46-7. doi: 
10.1097/00000446-200310000-00018.

Traditional healing and HIV-AIDS in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

Giarelli E(1), Jacobs LA.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
giarelli@nursing.upenn.edu

DOI: 10.1097/00000446-200310000-00018
PMID: 14530707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Ann Surg. 2003 Oct;238(4):551-61; discussion 561-2. doi: 
10.1097/01.sla.0000089856.64262.66.

Natural history of > or =60% asymptomatic carotid stenosis in patients with 
contralateral carotid occlusion.

AbuRahma AF(1), Metz MJ, Robinson PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, Of West 
Virginia University, Charleston Area Medical Center, Charleston, WV 25304, USA. 
Ali.aburahma@camc.org

OBJECTIVE: Although the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) 
reported that carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is beneficial for patients with 
asymptomatic > or =60% carotid stenosis (ACS), several other studies have 
reported mixed results. Our prospective study analyzed the natural history of > 
or =60% ACS in patients with contralateral carotid occlusion (CCO).
PATIENT POPULATION AND METHODS: During a 10-year period, patients with 60-<70% 
ACS with CCO were entered into a protocol of clinical examination and duplex 
surveillance every 6 months. All patients underwent maximum medical therapy. 
Late CEAs were considered if lesions became symptomatic or progressed to > or 
=70% stenosis. A Kaplan-Meier lifetable analysis was performed to estimate the 
freedom from both ipsilateral strokes and all strokes.
RESULTS: Eighty-two patients were enrolled with a mean follow-up of 59.5 months 
(range, 7-141 months). Late strokes were noted in 27 of 82 patients (33%); 19 
(23%) were ipsilateral and 8 (10%) were contralateral (side of CCO). Late 
transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) were noted in 22 of 82 (27%, 7 ipsilateral and 
15 contralateral). The combined neurologic event (TIA/stroke) rate was 60% (49 
of 82, 32% ipsilateral and 28% contralateral). Kaplan-Meier lifetable analysis 
showed that the rates of freedom from ipsilateral strokes, all strokes, and 
progression to > or =70% stenosis at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years were 94%, 90%, 85%, 
80%, 73%; 94%, 89%, 84%, 77%, 67%; and 99%, 96%, 92%, 86%, and 82%, 
respectively. The ipsilateral stroke-free survival rates at l, 2, 3, 4, and 5 
years were 94%, 88%, 78%, 70%, and 63%. Twenty-one late CEAs were performed with 
no perioperative stroke/deaths (5 for ipsilateral TIAs, 9 for ipsilateral 
strokes, and 7 for > or =70% ACS). Overall, 20 (24%, 11 with symptoms and 9 
asymptomatic) progressed to > or =70% stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with 60-<70% ACS and CCO with maximal medical therapy 
carry a higher incidence of ipsilateral strokes and all strokes than what was 
reported by the ACAS study; therefore, prophylactic CEA may be justified in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/01.sla.0000089856.64262.66
PMCID: PMC1360113
PMID: 14530726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2003 Sep;20(9):382-4. doi: 10.1023/a:1025485212589.

Birth of healthy twins resulting from donated oocytes and posthumous use of 
frozen-thawed spermatozoa obtained prior to chemotherapy.

Raziel A(1), Friedler S, Schachter M, Strassburger D, Orna B, Ron-El R.

Author information:
(1)Infertility and IVF Unit, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of 
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Zerifin 70300, Israel. araziel@012.net.il

The improvement in life expectancy, following better cancer therapy combined 
with new options in treating male infertility have increased the use of sperm 
freezing. We describe a rare case of twin pregnancy of a childless widow, using 
donated oocytes after ICSI with her deceased husband's banked frozen 
spermatozoa. Sperm was frozen before chemotherapy treatment and a written 
consent for future thawing and injection to donor oocytes was given. Use of 
thawed spermatozoa after death was not mentioned in the consent form. During the 
husband's illness years, ICSI of donated oocytes fertilized with thawed 
spermatozoa yielded three embryos, but no pregnancy was achieved after ET. While 
waiting for a subsequent oocyte donation, the male partner died of his 
malignancy. The woman expressed her wish to be treated with the frozen 
spermatozoa of her deceased husband. Since the original informed consent did not 
cover postmortem use of the husband's sperm, a special application for its use 
was made and subsequently approved by the Israeli Ministry of Health legal 
advisor. Another six donated oocytes were fertilized with the deceased's thawed 
spermatozoa, and the transfer of four embryos to the uterine cavity resulted in 
a twin pregnancy and later delivery of two healthy babies. This case emphasizes 
the importance of written informed consent signed by patients with a 
life-threatening disease at the time of banking spermatozoa, and discussing the 
possibility of its posthumous use. Several legal and ethical concerns are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1025485212589
PMCID: PMC3455838
PMID: 14531650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. JAMA. 2003 Oct 8;290(14):1884-90. doi: 10.1001/jama.290.14.1884.

Lifetime risk for diabetes mellitus in the United States.

Narayan KM(1), Boyle JP, Thompson TJ, Sorensen SW, Williamson DF.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Division of Diabetes Translation, 
Atlanta, Ga, USA. kav4@cdc.gov

CONTEXT: Although diabetes mellitus is one of the most prevalent and costly 
chronic diseases in the United States, no estimates have been published of 
individuals' average lifetime risk of developing diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate age-, sex-, and race/ethnicity-specific lifetime risk of 
diabetes in the cohort born in 2000 in the United States.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Data from the National Health Interview 
Survey (1984-2000) were used to estimate age-, sex-, and race/ethnicity-specific 
prevalence and incidence in 2000. US Census Bureau data and data from a previous 
study of diabetes as a cause of death were used to estimate age-, sex-, and 
race/ethnicity-specific mortality rates for diabetic and nondiabetic 
populations.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Residual (remaining) lifetime risk of diabetes (from 
birth to 80 years in 1-year intervals), duration with diabetes, and life-years 
and quality-adjusted life-years lost from diabetes.
RESULTS: The estimated lifetime risk of developing diabetes for individuals born 
in 2000 is 32.8% for males and 38.5% for females. Females have higher residual 
lifetime risks at all ages. The highest estimated lifetime risk for diabetes is 
among Hispanics (males, 45.4% and females, 52.5%). Individuals diagnosed as 
having diabetes have large reductions in life expectancy. For example, we 
estimate that if an individual is diagnosed at age 40 years, men will lose 11.6 
life-years and 18.6 quality-adjusted life-years and women will lose 14.3 
life-years and 22.0 quality-adjusted life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: For individuals born in the United States in 2000, the lifetime 
probability of being diagnosed with diabetes mellitus is substantial. Primary 
prevention of diabetes and its complications are important public health 
priorities.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.290.14.1884
PMID: 14532317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Urol. 2003 Nov;170(5):1808-11. doi: 10.1097/01.ju.0000091640.59812.83.

The effects of combined androgen blockade on cognitive function during the first 
cycle of intermittent androgen suppression in patients with prostate cancer.

Cherrier MM(1), Rose AL, Higano C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Box 358280-116 MIRECCO, 
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. 
cherrier@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    J Urol. 2004 Aug;172(2):774; author reply 774-5.

PURPOSE: Men with prostate specific antigen (PSA) only relapse of prostate 
cancer after primary therapy are generally fully functional and asymptomatic 
with a life expectancy of up to 10 or more years. These patients are often 
treated with androgen suppression. We evaluate the effects of androgen 
suppression on cognitive function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Hormone naïve patients without evidence of metastases 
with an increasing PSA were treated with intermittent androgen suppression 
consisting of 9 months of leuprolide and flutamide followed by an off treatment 
period determined by the increase in PSA. Cognitive function tests were 
administered at baseline, after 9 months of androgen suppression and after 3 
months off treatment. Cognitive tests measured spatial abilities, spatial 
memory, verbal fluency, verbal memory and selective attention. A total of 19 
patients 52 to 76 years old completed the intermittent androgen suppression 
study along with 15 healthy community dwelling control participants.
RESULTS: Combined androgen blockade reduced PSA and testosterone in all patients 
compared to baseline. Patients did not significantly change on measures of 
verbal and spatial memory, executive functions or language. Patients declined on 
a measure of spatial rotation and improved on a measure of verbal memory during 
treatment which continued during the off treatment period.
CONCLUSIONS: Although preliminary, these findings demonstrate that 9 months of 
combined androgen blockade resulted in a beneficial effect on verbal memory but 
adversely affected a measure of spatial ability. Intermittent androgen 
suppression for a period of 9 months in otherwise healthy men with prostate 
cancer may have beneficial and adverse effects on cognition that are selective.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000091640.59812.83
PMID: 14532781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Eur J Public Health. 2003 Sep;13(3 Suppl):38-46. doi: 
10.1093/eurpub/13.suppl_1.38.

Child health indicators for Europe: a priority for a caring society.

Rigby MJ(1), Köhler LI, Blair ME, Metchler R.

Author information:
(1)Project Manager, CHILD Health Indicators Project/Centre for Health Planning 
and Management, Keele University, UK. m.j.rigby@keele.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Measurement of children's health is important for two reasons: 
first, because young people are citizens in their own right, yet largely unable 
to act as self-advocates, particularly at the population level; and second, 
because their health determines the health of the future population. Indicators 
based on measurements of child health are important for identifying progress, 
problems and priorities, changes over time, and newly emergent issues. The 
European Community Health Monitoring Programme (HMP) is a comprehensive 
programme to develop and implement a set of national-level indicators. The Child 
Health Indicators of Life and Development (CHILD) project is the only population 
group-specific project, seeking to determine a holistic set of measures.
METHODS: The project endeavoured to address all aspects of child health and its 
determinants, balancing positive and negative aspects. It undertook a structured 
search of published evidence to seek to identify, and validate, indicators of 
health and illness, health determinants and challenges to health, quality of 
healthcare support and health-promoting national policies. A systematic approach 
was used in identifying valid indicators, and in assembling a balanced composite 
list. All ages from infancy to adolescence were covered.
RESULTS: The project's final report identifies 38 core desirable national 
indicators, citing purpose and evidence for each. Of equal importance, it also 
identifies 17 key child health topics on which further research work is needed 
in order to identify and validate indicators appropriate across different 
national settings.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/13.suppl_1.38
PMID: 14533747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Eur J Public Health. 2003 Sep;13(3 Suppl):47-50. doi: 
10.1093/eurpub/13.suppl_1.47.

Health indicators for people with intellectual disabilities: a European 
perspective.

Walsh PN(1), Kerr M, van Schrojenstein Lantman-de Valk HM.

Author information:
(1)National University of Ireland, Dublin, Ireland. patricia.walsh@ucd.ie

People with intellectual disabilities make up about 1% of the population of 
Europe. As trends toward community life advance, they have become more visible 
and more likely to access generic health systems. Yet evidence suggests that 
there are striking disparities between the health of this group and that of the 
general population. Increased longevity means that adults in this group expect 
to live longer lives and thus to encounter age-related risks for various health 
conditions. The 'Pomona' project, funded by the EU Health Monitoring Unit, aims 
to develop a set of health indicators for people with intellectual disabilities. 
It will build on the work accomplished by the team developing ECHI--European 
Community Health Indicators. This article outlines the rationale for the 
project, key elements in its implementation and expected outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/13.suppl_1.47
PMID: 14533748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Presse Med. 2003 Oct 4;32(32):1492-3.

[The silent revolution of the elderly. Interview by Véronique Girault].

[Article in French]

Tubiana M.

PMID: 14534465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Ann Vasc Surg. 2003 Nov;17(6):650-5. doi: 10.1007/s10016-003-0070-6. Epub
2003  Oct 13.

Percutaneous therapy for renal artery fibromuscular dysplasia.

Surowiec SM(1), Sivamurthy N, Rhodes JM, Lee DE, Waldman DL, Green RM, Davies 
MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Center for Vascular Disease, University of 
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) accounts for 10% of cases of renal artery 
stenosis. This study evaluates the anatomic and functional outcomes of 
endovascular therapy for symptomatic renal artery FMD at an academic medical 
center. A retrospective analysis of records from patients who underwent 
percutaneous transluminal renal artery angioplasty (PTRA) found 14 patients (all 
female) who underwent 19 interventions on 18 renal artery segments. Significant 
cardiovascular comorbidities were few in this patient population. The PTRA 
technical success rate was 95%. There were no periprocedural mortalities. 
Primary patency rates were 81%, 69%, 69%, and 69% at 2, 4, 6, and 8 years. 
Assisted primary patency rates were 87%, 87%, 87%, and 87% at 2, 4, 6, and 8 
years. The restenosis rate was 25% at 8 years. Clinical benefit (improved or 
cured hypertension) was seen in 79% of patients overall; 65% of patients 
maintained this benefit at 8 years by life-table analysis. Percutaneous 
endovascular intervention for clinically symptomatic FMD of the renal arteries 
is technically successful, safe, and durable. Most patients demonstrate 
immediate clinical benefit and retain durable functional outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10016-003-0070-6
PMID: 14534846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Mov Disord. 2003 Oct;18(10):1184-9. doi: 10.1002/mds.10503.

One-year treatment with standard and sustained-release levodopa: appropriate 
long-term treatment of restless legs syndrome?

Trenkwalder C(1), Collado Seidel V, Kazenwadel J, Wetter TC, Oertel W, Selzer R, 
Kohnen R.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich, Germany. ctrenkw@gwdg.de

To investigate the long-term efficacy and safety of sustained-release (SR) in 
combination with regular-release (RR) levodopa/benserazide in the treatment of 
restless legs syndrome (RLS), an open-label, prospective, extension study of a 
preceding double-blind crossover trial was performed for 12 months. Twenty-three 
severely disturbed RLS patients (7 men, 16 women) received a combination of RR 
and SR levodopa. Patients were treated on average for 10 months with a mean 
daily dose of 203 +/- 101 mg of RR and of 185 +/- 93 mg of SR levodopa. The mean 
daily total dose was 388 +/- 162 mg levodopa. Efficacy was documented using 
patient's rating scales, sleep diaries, and investigator's global ratings with 
the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI). Ten of 23 patients completed the 1-year 
extension. Between baseline of the crossover trial and endpoint of the extension 
study (last-observation-carried-forward method, intention-to-treat population), 
quality of sleep improved (+3.5 +/- 1.9, 7-point scale), sleep latency was 
shortened (-131 +/- 152 minutes), and total sleep time lengthened (+ 190 +/- 136 
minutes). Severity of RLS at time of falling asleep (-6.5 +/- 3.4, 11-point 
scale) and during the night (-6.0 +/- 3.5) was markedly lower at the end of the 
extension but severity of RLS during the day (+1.9 +/- 5.0) slightly increased. 
Of 13 dropouts, 8 patients discontinued therapy because of worsening RLS during 
the day. This trial shows that long-term treatment with the combination of RR 
and SR levodopa/benserazide in RLS patients with late-night problems was 
efficacious and not limited by tolerability problems in 40% of patients, whereas 
in the majority of patients, aggravating daytime problems required termination 
of the levodopa therapy within the 1-year treatment period.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10503
PMID: 14534925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. BJOG. 2003 Oct;110(10):894-901.

The burden of disease from neonatal mortality: a review of South Asia and 
Sub-Saharan Africa.

Hyder AA(1), Wali SA, McGuckin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the burden of neonatal mortality in two developing regions.
DESIGN: Review of secondary data collated through literature review.
SETTING: Community and facility based studies and national health surveys.
POPULATION: Neonatal (<28 days) population of South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: Data on neonatal mortality were gathered from peer-reviewed literature, 
reports of the Demographic and Health Surveys and websites of country-based 
organisations. The base year for this study is 1995. For each country, a 
weighted mean neonatal mortality rate was calculated and the total number of 
neonatal deaths estimated. Country data were summarised over each region to 
estimate annual regional neonatal deaths and rates. The burden of disease from 
neonatal mortality was determined using a summary measure of health--healthy 
life years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Numbers of deaths and healthy life years (HeaLYs).
RESULTS: Neonatal mortality rate for South Asia ranged from 41.9 to 56.9 per 
1000 live births for 1995. Sri Lanka was an exception with a neonatal mortality 
rate between 16.3 and 18.6 per 1000 live births. The estimated regional neonatal 
mortality rate for South Asia was 46.27 per 1000 live births for 1995. There was 
a significant lack of data from Sub-Saharan Africa, resulting in highly variable 
neonatal mortality rates, ranging from 13 per 1000 live births in Kenya to 108 
per 1000 live births in Senegal. The mean regional neonatal mortality for 
Sub-Saharan Africa for 1995 was estimated at 38.8 per 1000 live births.
CONCLUSION: The burden of neonatal mortality in only these two regions of the 
developing world represents more than 2 million annual deaths. A call for 
greater investments in neonatal research and health programs is a logical 
extension to this review of evidence.

PMID: 14550358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Urology. 2003 Oct;62(4):698-701. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00570-3.

Comparison of the American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status 
classification with the Charlson score as predictors of survival after radical 
prostatectomy.

Froehner M(1), Koch R, Litz R, Heller A, Oehlschlaeger S, Wirth MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University of Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status 
(ASA) classification with the Charlson score in the radical prostatectomy 
setting. The ASA classification is a widely accepted way to evaluate 
perioperative risk. At present, the Charlson score is probably the most 
frequently used comorbidity measure to predict long-term survival after radical 
prostatectomy.
METHODS: A total of 444 consecutive patients were enrolled in this study. The 
ASA classification was obtained from the anesthesia chart, and the Charlson 
score was assigned based on conditions noted during the preoperative 
cardiopulmonary risk assessment or mentioned on the discharge document. 
Kaplan-Meier time-event curves and Mantel-Haenszel hazard ratios were estimated 
for comorbid (noncancer) and overall survival.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 5.9 years, both classifications were able to 
predict comorbid and overall survival in dose-response patterns. The ASA 
classification was superior in terms of a clearer discrimination of the survival 
curves (lower P values, higher hazard ratios). Both classifications identified a 
high-risk group (ASA 3 and Charlson score 2 or more), but only the ASA 
classification sufficiently defined a low-risk group (ASA 1).
CONCLUSIONS: In experienced hands, the ASA classification is a promising tool to 
improve the classification of prognostic comorbidity in the radical 
prostatectomy setting and may be used as an alternative to the Charlson score.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00570-3
PMID: 14550446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Urology. 2003 Oct;62(4):732-6. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00579-x.

Reoperative retroperitoneal surgery for nonseminomatous germ cell tumor: 
clinical presentation, patterns of recurrence, and outcome.

McKiernan JM(1), Motzer RJ, Bajorin DF, Bacik J, Bosl GJ, Sheinfeld J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the clinical characteristics and outcome of patients 
with metastatic nonseminomatous germ cell tumor requiring reoperative 
retroperitoneal surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, because 
such patients are poorly characterized.
METHODS: The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center germ cell tumor surgical 
database was reviewed from January 1989 through April 2001, and the clinical 
characteristics of patients undergoing reoperative retroperitoneal surgery for 
nonseminomatous germ cell tumor were identified. The initial presentation, 
histologic findings, morbidity, and survival were analyzed. Disease-specific 
survival was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: A total of 56 patients underwent 61 repeat operations: 22 after primary 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) and 34 after postchemotherapy 
RPLND. Left testicular primary tumors were more common than right (33 versus 
23), and the most common sites of disease prompting reoperation were the 
para-aortic and left hilar regions. Teratoma was the most common histologic 
finding at the time of reoperation. Of 56 patients, 37 (66%) required 
chemotherapy between the initial operation and reoperation. The overall 
perioperative complication rate was 27%, and median length of hospital stay was 
8 days. Sixty-nine percent of patients required adjunctive procedures at the 
time of reoperation, the most common of which was thoracotomy. The 5-year 
disease-specific survival rate was 67% for the entire group (86% following 
reoperation after primary RPLND and 56% following reoperation after 
postchemotherapy RPLND).
CONCLUSIONS: Reoperative retroperitoneal surgery for nonseminomatous germ cell 
tumor can be performed with acceptable morbidity in select referral centers. 
Teratoma is highly prevalent in the retroperitoneum at the time of reoperation. 
A significant subset of these high-risk patients can be salvaged with complete 
resection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00579-x
PMID: 14550453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Urology. 2003 Oct;62(4):771-5. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00560-0.

Quantitative RT-PCR assay for MUC3 and VEGF mRNA in renal clear cell carcinoma: 
relationship with nuclear grade and prognosis.

Leroy X(1), Gouyer V, Ballereau C, Zerimech F, Huet G, Copin MC, Aubert JP, 
Porchet N.

Author information:
(1)Unity INSERM U560, Lille, France.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate, by real-time quantitative reverse 
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, the expression of MUC3 and vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) to correlate them with histologic parameters 
and with prognosis. Human mucins are large O-glycoproteins expressed in 
epithelial tissues. Deregulation of mucin genes has been demonstrated in several 
epithelial neoplasms. In the kidney, MUC3 is expressed in normal convoluted 
tubules and in renal clear cell carcinoma.
METHODS: Twenty-six renal clear cell carcinoma specimens were studied. For all 
tumors, samples of normal and tumor kidney were frozen. After RNA extraction, 
using ultracentrifugation through a cesium chloride cushion, VEGF and MUC3 mRNA 
were analyzed by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain 
reaction. The pathologic parameters included Fuhrman nuclear grade and TNM 
stage. All follow-up data were available.
RESULTS: The median level of MUC3 and VEGF expression was greater in tumor areas 
compared with normal areas (P < 0.002 and P < 0.001, respectively). The MUC3 
tumor/normal tissue expression ratio was greater in nuclear grade 3 tumor than 
in low grades (grade 1-2; P < 0.005). No statistically significant relationship 
was found with the prognosis for MUC3 and VEGF in our study.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study demonstrate that MUC3 and VEGF are 
overexpressed in renal clear cell carcinoma, and the MUC3 expression ratio is 
greater in nuclear grade 3 than in grades 1 and 2 (low grades) tumor. These 
findings suggest the implication of MUC3 in renal carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00560-0
PMID: 14550470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Nurs Adm. 2003 Oct;33(10):538-43. doi: 10.1097/00005110-200310000-00009.

Nursing workforce management: using benchmarking for planning and outcomes 
monitoring.

Malloch K(1), Davenport S, Milton D, Hatler C.

Author information:
(1)Kathy Mallock and Associates, Glendale, AR 85308, USA. Kathy@kathymalloch.com

Erratum in
    J Nurs Adm. 2004 Oct;34(10):442.

The goal of maintaining the balance between demand for nursing care and the 
supply of nurses is the basis for state and regional planning to meet future 
nursing workforce needs. Projecting nursing supply needs solely on the basis of 
historical registered nurse to population ratios does not specifically consider 
the healthcare needs of the population. The authors present a model in which 
state population data and nursing resource data are compared with national data 
to assist state planning groups in developing an effective workforce management 
plan. Integrating population demographic data, healthcare needs of citizens, and 
nurse resource factors at the state level can improve the accuracy of projection 
statistics.

DOI: 10.1097/00005110-200310000-00009
PMID: 14551472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2003 Oct;22(10):904-14. doi: 
10.1097/01.inf.0000091295.53969.6a.

Regional variation in the cost effectiveness of childhood hepatitis A 
immunization.

Jacobs RJ(1), Greenberg DP, Koff RS, Saab S, Meyerhoff AS.

Author information:
(1)Capitol Outcomes Research, Inc, Alexandria, VA 22310, USA. 
Jake.Jacobs@CapitolOutcomesResearch.com

BACKGROUND: Routine childhood hepatitis A immunization is recommended in regions 
with incidence rates twice the national average, but it may be cost-effective in 
a wider geographic area.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the costs and benefits of potential hepatitis A 
immunization of healthy US children in regions with varying hepatitis A 
incidences.
METHODS: We considered vaccination of the 2000 US birth cohort in states defined 
by historic hepatitis A incidence rates. Infections among potential vaccinees 
and their personal contacts were predicted from age 2 through 85 years. Net 
vaccination costs were estimated from health system and societal perspectives 
and were compared with life-years saved and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained using a 3% discount rate. RESULTS Nationally vaccination would prevent 
>75 000 cases of overt hepatitis A disease. Approximately two-thirds of health 
benefits would accrue to personal contacts rather than to vaccinees themselves. 
In states with incidence rates of > or =200%, 100 to 199%, 50 to 99% and <50% 
the national average, societal costs per QALY gained would be <0, <0, 13,800 and 
63,000 US dollars, respectively. Nationally vaccination would cost 9100 US 
dollars per QALY gained from the perspective of the health system and 1400 US 
dollars per QALY gained from society's perspective. Results are most sensitive 
to vaccination costs and rates of disease transmission through personal contact.
CONCLUSION: Childhood hepatitis A vaccination is most cost-effective in areas 
with the highest incidence rates but would also meet accepted standards of 
economic efficiency in most of the US. A national immunization policy would 
prevent substantial morbidity and mortality, with cost effectiveness similar to 
that of other childhood immunizations.

DOI: 10.1097/01.inf.0000091295.53969.6a
PMID: 14551492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2004 May;261(5):276-81. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-003-0694-8. Epub 2003 Oct 9.

T1-T2 NO oropharyngeal cancers treated with surgery alone. A GETTEC study.

Cosmidis A(1), Rame JP, Dassonville O, Temam S, Massip F, Poissonnet G, Poupart 
M, Marandas P, De Raucourt D; Groupement d'Etudes des Tumeurs de la Tête et du 
Cou (GETTEC).

Author information:
(1)Service ORL, Hôpital de la Croix-Rousse, 103 grande rue de la Croix-Rousse, 
69317 Lyon Cedex 04, France. alain.cosmidis@chu-lyon.fr

The aim of this study is to show that surgical treatment of early-stage squamous 
cell carcinomas of the oropharynx gives identical, if not better, oncological 
results than the classic radiotherapy treatment in terms of locoregional control 
and survival. Fifty-three patients (32 T1, 21 T2, all N0) were operated on 
during the years 1995-2000. Surgical treatment consisted in a resection by the 
transoral approach in 43 patients (81.13%); ten patients (18.87%) benefited from 
a pharyngectomy with (seven) or without (three) mandibular resection. A level I 
to V selective neck dissection was performed on 35 patients, and 5 patients 
underwent a level II to V selective neck dissection. The 1-, 3- and 5-year 
overall survival rates were 100, 94.6 and 73%, respectively. There was no 
significant difference concerning the tumor stage ( P=0.69), the initial 
localization ( P=0.64), the macroscopic aspect ( P=0.65) and the management 
undertaken in the different centers ( P=0.19). The 5-year rate of specific 
survival was 100%. The 1-, 3- and 5-year locoregional control rates were 96.22, 
92.45 and 88.68, respectively. The oncological occurrences observed were 2 
persistent diseases, 5 local recurrences, 11 second primary cancers and 0 nodal 
recurrences. Seven local failures were observed, all of which were controlled 
after a second treatment. Eleven patients presented second primary cancers; 
three died, two are alive with an extension of this second localization, and six 
are alive and free of disease. The locoregional control provided by surgery 
alone on T1-T2 N0 oropharyngeal cancers is as good as radiotherapy. Moreover 
surgery alone makes it possible to spare patients the complications and 
aftereffects of radiotherapy. It also makes it possible during the recurrences 
to operate on patients in non-irradiated areas with lower morbidity and 
mortality. It is all the more beneficial since it will be possible to resort to 
radiotherapy after surgery if need be.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-003-0694-8
PMID: 14551793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nutr Rev. 2003 Sep;61(9):313-6. doi: 10.1301/nr.2003.sept.313-316.

Overweight and obesity status are linked to lower life expectancy.

St-Onge MP(1), Heymsfield SB.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Research Center, St-Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, Columbia University, 
New York, NY 10025, USA.

It is well known that overweight and obesity are associated with increased 
morbidity, which translates into increased risk of mortality. Two recent studies 
quantify the number of years of life lost owing to high body mass index, but 
more research is needed to determine whether weight loss would result in the 
prevention of early death.

DOI: 10.1301/nr.2003.sept.313-316
PMID: 14552067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Rheumatol. 1988 Dec;15(12):1747-54.

Auranofin improves outcome in early rheumatoid arthritis. Results from a 2-year, 
double blind placebo controlled study.

Borg G(1), Allander E, Lund B, Berg E, Brodin U, Pettersson H, Trang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge University 
Hospital, Huddinge, Sweden.

The effect of early initiation of auranofin (AF) therapy on outcome measures was 
studied in a controlled 24-month double blind trial in 138 patients with early 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using an intent to treat approach. Patients were 
randomized to AF or placebo but in case of insufficient effect or intolerable 
adverse events, they switched to open disease modifying antirheumatic drug 
therapy. Patients who started AF fared significantly better in improved joint 
swelling. Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire index, Keitel functional 
test, and mental depression, and furthermore, radiologic progression was 
significantly retarded. Our results support a disease modifying beneficial 
effect of AF in early active RA.se

PMID: 14552308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Ethn Dis. 2003 Summer;13(3 Suppl 3):S3-9-11.

Beyond rhetoric: what we need to know to eliminate disparities.

Aaron KF(1), Chesley FD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Office of Priority Populations Research, Agency for Healthcare Research and 
Quality, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA. kf-aaron@ahrq.gov

Racial and ethnic disparities in health care are well documented and can be 
discussed in 3 broad categories: health system factors, patient-level factors, 
and patient/provider interaction. Clinicians and others working in health care 
and related fields are knowledgeable about disparities in health, but the 
general US population is not. Racial/ethnic disparities are most striking in 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and lack of health insurance. The inaugural 
edition of the National Healthcare Disparities Report, due out in 2003, will 
provide valuable insights into the state of health care in America, including a 
comprehensive view of disparities in health care. The Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality is conducting and supporting research, data collection, and 
other initiatives aimed at reducing racial/ethnic disparities in health care. 
The documented disparities in health care represent a critical opportunity for 
quality improvement that requires input from all sectors, including 
policymakers, providers, community leaders, and patients.

PMID: 14552437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Am J Med. 2003 Oct 1;115(5):382-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00296-1.

Cost-effectiveness of bypass surgery versus stenting in patients with 
multivessel coronary artery disease.

Yock CA(1), Boothroyd DB, Owens DK, Garber AM, Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2003 Oct 1;115(5):410-1.

PURPOSE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of surgical and angioplasty-based 
coronary artery revascularization techniques, in particular, angioplasty with 
primary stenting.
METHODS: We used data from the Study of Economics and Quality of Life, a 
substudy of the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation (BARI), to 
measure the outcomes and costs of angioplasty and bypass surgery in patients 
with multivessel coronary artery disease who had not undergone prior coronary 
artery revascularization. Using a Markov decision model, we updated the outcomes 
and costs to reflect technology changes since the time of enrollment in BARI, 
and projected the lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for the 
two procedures from the time of initial treatment through death. We accounted 
for the effects of improved procedural safety and efficiency, and prolonged 
therapeutic effects of both surgery and stenting. This study was conducted from 
a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Surgical revascularization was less costly and resulted in better 
outcomes than catheter-based intervention including stenting. It remained the 
preferred strategy after adjusting the stent outcomes to eliminate the costs and 
events associated with target lesion restenosis. Among angioplasty-based 
strategies, primary stent use cost an additional 189,000 US dollars per QALY 
gained compared with a strategy that reserved stent use for treatment of 
suboptimal balloon angioplasty results.
CONCLUSION: Bypass surgery results in better outcomes than angioplasty in 
patients with multivessel disease, and at a lower cost.
