
DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00296-1
PMID: 14553874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Am J Med. 2003 Oct 1;115(5):400-3. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00309-7.

Association between mortality and occupation among movie directors and actors.

Redelmeier DA(1), Singh SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto; the Clinical Epidemiology and 
Health Care Research Program, Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Sciences 
Centre; and the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. dar@ices.on.ca

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(03)00309-7
PMID: 14553877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Bioinformatics. 2003 Oct 12;19(15):1937-44. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btg257.

Modes and clustering for time-warped gene expression profile data.

Liu X(1), Müller HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095, 
USA.

MOTIVATION: The study of the dynamics of regulatory processes has led to 
increased interest for the analysis of temporal gene expression level data. To 
address the dynamics of regulation, expression data are collected repeatedly 
over time. It is difficult to statistically represent the resulting 
high-dimensional data. When regulatory processes determine gene expression, 
time-warping is likely to be present, i.e. the sample of gene expression 
trajectories reflects variation not only in terms of the expression amplitudes, 
but also in terms of the temporal structure of gene expression.
RESULTS: A non-parametric time-synchronized iterative mean updating technique is 
proposed to find an overall representation that corresponds to a mode of a 
sample of expression profiles, viewed as a random sample in function space. The 
proposed algorithm explores the application of previous work of Hall and Heckman 
to genome-wide expression data and provides an extension that includes random 
time-warping with the aim to synchronize timescales across genes. The proposed 
algorithm is universally applicable for the construction of modes for functional 
data with time-warping. We demonstrate the construction of mode functions for a 
sample of Drosophila gene expression data. The algorithm can be applied to 
define clusters among the observed trajectories of gene expression, without any 
kind of prior non-time-warped clustering, as illustrated in the numerical 
example.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btg257
PMID: 14555627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2003;187(2):325-40; discussion 340-3.

[Results of heart transplantation: experience of 233 grafts].

[Article in French]

Logeais Y(1), Lelong B, Langanay T, Corbineau H, Rioux C, Leguerrier A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Cardiovasculaire, Centre 
Cardio-Pneumologique, Hôpital Pontchaillou-CHU-35043 Rennes.

BACKGROUND: Heart failure is one of the leading causes of hospitalization and 
death. The aim of this study was to evaluate long term outcomes after cardiac 
transplantation.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 222 consecutive cardiac allograft recipients 
who underwent 233 transplantations between 1986 to 2000 was undertaken. 
Cardiomyopathy (123) and ischemic heart disease (87) were the most common 
indications. Mean age was 51 years +/- 11, and male gender was predominant 
(184).
RESULTS: 33 patients (14.8%) died in the post operative period, mainly from 
graft failure (24 pts). During the follow-up period (total 1157 pt/yrs, mean 6.2 
+/- 5 yrs, max 16 yrs), 60 late deaths occurred from cancer (21), graft failure 
(13), infection (13), and miscellaneous (13). Retransplantations were performed 
in 11 patients. The actuarial survival of the entire cohort was 75%, 66% and 50% 
at 1, 5, and 10 years respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac transplantation gives satisfactory long term results for 
patients with end-stage heart failure, providing good exercise tolerance and 
survival for 10 years or more in a large number of patients. Improvement in 
immunosuppression therapy is responsible for decrease in acute rejection rate. 
Reduction in HLA mismatch should allow for better immunomodulation and decreased 
incidence of cardiac allograft vasculopathy and malignancies.

PMID: 14556444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Hypertension. 2003 Nov;42(5):885-90. doi:
10.1161/01.HYP.0000097602.67134.4D.  Epub 2003 Oct 13.

Blood pressure lowering and life expectancy based on a Markov model of 
cardiovascular events.

Sesso HD(1), Chen RS, L'Italien GJ, Lapuerta P, Lee WC, Glynn RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 900 
Commonwealth Ave East, Boston, Mass 02215-1204, USA. hsesso@hsph.harvard.edu

The life expectancy benefits of antihypertensive treatment, based on both 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure reduction, was estimated with a 
cardiovascular disease event Markov model with prospective data from 57 573 men 
and women. Seven patient states were defined, including (1) no cardiovascular 
disease, (2) stroke, (3) myocardial infarction, (4) revascularization, (5) 
history of cardiovascular disease, (6) noncardiovascular disease death, and (7) 
cardiovascular death. Risk functions were developed from gender-specific 
multivariate Cox proportional hazards models for primary events and age-, 
smoking-, and diabetes-adjusted models for secondary events. At baseline we 
assumed (1) hypothetical pretreatment blood pressures of 160/95 or 150/90 mm Hg; 
(2) strategies A and B lower blood pressure by 20/13 and 13/8 mm Hg, 
respectively; and (3) baseline age of 35 years. For subjects initially at 160/95 
mm Hg, those with antihypertensive treatment, antihypertensive treatment and 
diabetes, or antihypertensive treatment, diabetes, and currently smoking had 
corresponding gains in life expectancy of 2.43, 2.80, and 2.43 years for 
Strategy A. An initial blood pressure of 150/90 mm Hg resulted in similar gains. 
Compared with Strategy B, with blood pressure reductions of 13/8 mm Hg, Strategy 
A provided additional gains in life expectancy of 0.84, 0.99, and 0.87 years for 
those with antihypertensive treatment, antihypertensive treatment and diabetes, 
or antihypertensive treatment, diabetes, and currently smoking. The initial 
blood pressure level did not affect the magnitude of life expectancy gains for 
equivalent blood pressure reductions. Greater gains in life expectancy among 
hypertensive and diabetic women suggest that blood pressure lowering may yield 
greater benefits in selected subgroups.

DOI: 10.1161/01.HYP.0000097602.67134.4D
PMID: 14557283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Circulation. 2003 Nov 11;108(19):2323-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000095267.24234.00. Epub 2003 Oct 13.

Joint effects of C-reactive protein and glycated hemoglobin in predicting future 
cardiovascular events of patients with advanced atherosclerosis.

Schillinger M(1), Exner M, Amighi J, Mlekusch W, Sabeti S, Rumpold H, Wagner O, 
Minar E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Angiology, Vienna General Hospital, Medical School, Vienna, 
Austria. martin.schillinger@akh-wien.ac.at

BACKGROUND: C-reactive protein (CRP) and glycohemoglobin (HbA1c) are established 
risk factors for the development of cardiovascular disease. We investigated the 
joint effects of these parameters on cardiovascular outcome of patients with 
advanced atherosclerosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 454 patients with advanced atherosclerosis 
(median age, 69 years; 264 male). Cardiovascular risk profile, high-sensitivity 
CRP (hs-CRP), and HbA1c were obtained at baseline, and patients were followed 
for a median of 21 months (interquartile range, 13 to 26) for the occurrence of 
major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) (myocardial infarction, percutaneous 
coronary interventions, coronary artery bypass graft, carotid revascularization, 
stroke, and death). We observed 166 MACE in 128 patients (28%). Cumulative 
event-free survival rates at 6, 12, and 24 months were 91%, 85%, and 73%, 
respectively. Adjusted hazard ratios for the occurrence of MACE according to 
increasing quartiles of hs-CRP and HbA1c were 1.35 (P=0.31), 1.90 (P=0.026) and 
2.13 (P=0.007), and 1.40 (P=0.26), 1.81 (P=0.059), and 2.36 (P=0.023), 
respectively, compared with the lowest quartiles. Considering both parameters 
jointly, we found that patients with hs-CRP >0.44 mg/dL and HbA1c >6.2% (upper 
quartiles) were at highest risk for MACE, with each parameter adding to the 
prognostic information of the other.
CONCLUSIONS: Inflammation, indicated by hs-CRP, and hyperglycemia, indicated by 
HbA1c, jointly contribute to the cardiovascular risk of patients with advanced 
atherosclerosis. Patients with both hs-CRP and HbA1c in the upper quartiles 
(>0.44 mg/dL and >6.2%, respectively) are at particularly high risk for poor 
cardiovascular outcome.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000095267.24234.00
PMID: 14557362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Osteoporos Int. 2003 Dec;14(12):1007-12. doi: 10.1007/s00198-003-1510-4.
Epub  2003 Oct 14.

Impact of postural deformities and spinal mobility on quality of life in 
postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Miyakoshi N(1), Itoi E, Kobayashi M, Kodama H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Akita University School of Medicine, 1-1-1 
Hondo, 010-8543, Akita, Japan. miyakosh@doc.med.akita-u.ac.jp

The objective of the study was to evaluate the impact of postural deformities 
and spinal mobility on quality of life (QOL) in patients with spinal 
osteoporosis. A total of 157 postmenopausal women aged over 60 years with 
osteoporosis were divided into five groups according to their postural 
deformities: round back (RB, n=41), hollow round back (HRB, n=33), whole 
kyphosis (WK, n=40), lower acute kyphosis (LAK, n=18), and normal posture (NP, 
n=25). QOL was evaluated using the Japanese Osteoporosis QOL Questionnaire 
(JOQOL) proposed by the Japanese Society for Bone and Mineral Research. This 
questionnaire contains six domains, with higher scores indicating higher levels 
of QOL. The number of vertebral fractures, thoracic kyphosis and lumbar lordosis 
angles, and spinal range of motion (ROM) during maximum flexion and extension 
were also measured with radiographs. Total QOL scores in RB, HRB, WK, and LAK 
groups were significantly lower than those in the NP group, and those in WK 
group were even lower compared with the other groups ( P<0.05). All the groups 
with postural deformities, but not the NP group, showed significant positive 
correlations between total QOL score and spinal ROM (0.521</= r</=0.747, 
P<0.05). Total QOL score showed a significant correlation with age, number of 
vertebral fractures, lumbar lordosis angle, and spinal ROM in a total of 157 
patients. However, multiple regression analysis revealed that spinal ROM best 
correlated with total QOL score. We concluded that QOL in patients with 
osteoporosis was impaired by postural deformities, especially by whole kyphosis, 
and that spinal mobility has a strong effect on QOL in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-003-1510-4
PMID: 14557854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Med J Aust. 2003 Oct 20;179(8):396-7. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05612.x.

Evidence and information for health policy: a decade of change.

Lopez AD.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2003.tb05612.x
PMID: 14558858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Oct;32(5):717-24. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyg101.

Modelling hepatitis C virus incidence, prevalence and long-term sequelae in 
Australia, 2001.

Law MG(1), Dore GJ, Bath N, Thompson S, Crofts N, Dolan K, Giles W, Gow P, 
Kaldor J, Loveday S, Powell E, Spencer J, Wodak A.

Author information:
(1)National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research, The University of 
New South Wales, 376 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia. 
mlaw@nchecr.unsw.edu.au

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2003 Oct;32(5):725-6.

BACKGROUND: To plan an appropriate public health response to the hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) epidemic requires that estimates of HCV incidence and prevalence, 
and projections of the long-term sequelae of infection, are as accurate as 
possible. In this paper, mathematical models are used to synthesize data on the 
epidemiology and natural history of HCV in Australia to estimate HCV incidence 
and prevalence in Australia to end 2001, and project future trends in the 
long-term sequelae of HCV infection.
METHODS: Mathematical models of the HCV epidemic in Australia were developed 
based on estimates of the pattern of injecting drug use. Estimates of HCV 
infections due to injecting drug use were then adjusted to allow for HCV 
infections resulting from other transmission routes. Projections of the 
long-term sequelae of HCV infection were obtained by combining modelled HCV 
incidence with estimates of the progression rates to these outcomes.
RESULTS: It was estimated that there were 210 000 (lower and upper limits of 157 
000 and 252 000) people in Australia living with HCV antibodies at the end of 
2001, with HCV incidence in 2001 estimated to be 16 000 (11 000-19 000). It was 
estimated that 6500 (5000-8000) people were living with HCV-related cirrhosis in 
2001, that 175 (130-210) people developed HCV-associated liver failure, and that 
there were 50 (40-60) incident cases of HCV-related hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC). It was estimated that in 2001 22 500 quality adjusted life years were 
lost to chronic HCV infection, the majority (77%) in people with early (stage 
0/1) liver disease.
DISCUSSION: Model-based estimates were broadly consistent with other sources of 
information on the HCV epidemic in Australia. These models suggest that the 
prevalence of HCV-related cirrhosis and the incidence of HCV-related liver 
failure and HCC will more than triple in Australia by 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyg101
PMID: 14559738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. JAMA. 2003 Oct 15;290(15):1995. doi: 10.1001/jama.290.15.1995-a.

Communicating life expectancy to patients with terminal illness.

Fox GN.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2003 Jul 2;290(1):98-104.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.290.15.1995-a
PMID: 14559950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2004;17(1-2):29-34. doi: 10.1159/000074140. Epub
 2003 Oct 13.

Management of patients with Alzheimer's disease plus cerebrovascular disease: 
12-month treatment with galantamine.

Bullock R(1), Erkinjuntti T, Lilienfeld S; GAL-INT-6 Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Kingshill Research Centre, Victoria Hospital, Swindon, UK. 
roger.bullock@kingshill-research.org

We evaluated the long-term cognitive effects and safety of galantamine 24 mg/day 
in patients with Alzheimer's disease plus cerebrovascular disease (AD + CVD or 
mixed dementia). Subgroup analysis was performed of patients with AD + CVD who 
participated in a 6-month, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group 
study and a 6-month, open-label, active-treatment extension.
METHOD: Two hundred and eighty-five patients with AD + CVD were randomized to 
receive either placebo (n = 97) or galantamine 24 mg/day (n = 188) for 6 months. 
Two hundred and thirty-eight (84%) patients continued with the open-label phase 
of the study (86 from the placebo group, 152 from the galantamine group) and 
were treated with galantamine 24 mg/day. The primary efficacy measure was 
cognitive performance as assessed using the eleven-item cognitive subscale of 
the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog/11). Standard safety 
evaluations and adverse-event monitoring were performed throughout the 12-month 
study period. Patients with AD + CVD treated with galantamine experienced 
statistically and clinically significant improvement in cognition at month 6 
(mean change in ADAS-cog/11 score -1.1; p < or = 0.05 vs. baseline) and 
maintained their cognitive function for the entire 12-month study (mean change 
in ADAS-cog/11 score +0.1). In contrast, the cognitive function deteriorated 
among those in the placebo group (mean change in ADAS-cog/11 at month 6 +2.0; p 
< or = 0.001 vs. baseline). Patients with AD + CVD who were switched from 
placebo to galantamine for the open-label phase of the trial did show 
improvement in cognitive function; however, they never attained the same 
cognitive level as patients who had been treated with galantamine for the entire 
12 months [mean (+/- SE) ADAS-cog/11 scores in the placebo/galantamine group 
25.7 +/- 1.32 and 24.2 +/- 1.57 at months 6 and 12, respectively, and in the 
galantamine/galantamine group 21.5 +/- 0.87 and 22.2 +/- 1.06 at months 6 and 
12, respectively]. The results of this subgroup analysis indicate that 
galantamine is effective for long-term maintenance of the cognitive function in 
patients with AD + CVD and is safe and well tolerated in this patient 
population.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000074140
PMID: 14560062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2003;120(1):179-96; discussion 196-203.

[Health and social challenges originated by the aging of the population].

[Article in Spanish]

Guillén Llera F.

The increment in ageing ratios, mainly in developed countries, and the increment 
in life expectancy, 83 years-of-age for Spanish women, have created a new caring 
scenery in health care confronting the "Geriatrisation of Medicine" and social 
care dealing with systems covering the needs of an aged population pertaining to 
a society whose family nucleus meets increasing difficulties for attending their 
elderly members. An efficacious geriatric care system should be based on solid 
hospital care, community oriented care and integration of health and social 
care, always aimed towards functional recovery of the individual and the 
integration of elderly people in their communities.

PMID: 14560558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Neurol Neurochir Pol. 2003;37 Suppl 3:51-62.

[Does gender exert influence on stroke?].

[Article in Polish]

Członkowska A(1), Kobayashi A.

Author information:
(1)II Kliniki Neurologii, Instytut Psychiatrii i Neurologii w Warszawie.

Stroke morbidity increases with age. That is the reason why it affects 
especially the middle aged and elderly. Life expectancy is longer for females 
than males by 10 years, that is why stroke is a major problem in women. Women 
die twice more frequently from stroke than men (16% vs. 8%). Stroke risk factors 
are basically the same in spite of gender. The most important are hypertension, 
diabetes, dyslipidaemia, atrial fibrillation, coronary heart disease, previous 
stroke, smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity and lack of physical activity. Their 
impact, however, is different in males and females. Women with diabetes, atrial 
fibrillation, myocardial infarction, obese, drinking excessive amounts of 
alcohol and smoking are more likely to suffer of stroke than males with the same 
burden. A less favourable outcome after stroke has been observed in female 
patients--higher mortality rates and disability. It is possible that poor 
prognosis is related to a drop in blood estrogen concentration after menopause. 
Estrogen replacement therapy has not proved to be beneficial in preventing 
stroke and improving outcome. There are several specific conditions: pregnancy, 
migraine in women associated with the occurrence of stroke.

PMID: 14560700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2003 Oct;17(5):1191-210. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00083-2.

Polycythemia vera.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2004 Feb;18(1):xv. Berlin Nathanial I 
[corrected to Berlin Nathaniel].

The differential diagnosis of an elevated hematocrit and the criteria for the 
diagnosis of polycythemia vera present little or no problem; however, there is 
not a consensus on therapy. Spivak likened this to a conundrum--"an intricate 
and difficult problem." Nonetheless, it can be argued that on the basis of the 
following criteria--life expectancy, the absence of toxicity, and long 
remissions an average of 3.1 years or a median of 2 years--and with acute 
leukemia no more common than in other regimens except phlebotomy alone (a 
regimen that cannot be sustained), 32P should be the treatment of choice except 
in pregnant women. Others, but not all, share this view. This is in contrast to 
the statement, "Thus chemotherapy treatment of [polycythemia vera] patients is 
not as easy, innocuous, and well tolerated as it is generally believed". 
Patients treated with phlebotomy alone were subjected to an unacceptably high 
incidence of early thrombotic events. Unavailability of pipobroman eliminates 
this choice.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(03)00083-2
PMID: 14560782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(9):843-4. doi: 10.1023/a:1025672011147.

Are Russians different than other Europeans in their relation of risk factors to 
cardiovascular disease risk.

Koek HL(1), Bots ML, Grobbee DE.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. hkoek@umcutrecht.nl

Comment on
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(9):871-8.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1025672011147
PMID: 14561042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(9):871-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1025626202235.

High cardiovascular mortality in Russia cannot be explained by the classical 
risk factors. The Arkhangelsk Study 2000.

Averina M(1), Nilssen O, Brenn T, Brox J, Kalinin AG, Arkhipovsky VL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, Medical Faculty, University of Tromsø, 
Norway. Maria.Averina@ism.uit.no

Comment in
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(9):843-4.

Since the beginning of the 1990s the public health situation in Russia has been 
characterized by an extremely high mortality and a significant reduction in life 
expectancy. Cardiovascular diseases remained the major cause of death. Only a 
few large population studies were conducted in Russia during this period. A 
total of 1968 men and 1737 women aged 18-75 years participated in a health 
survey in Arkhangelsk, Russia, over the period 1999-2000. Investigation included 
assessment of classic cardiovascular risk factors (family history, smoking, 
blood pressure, and blood lipids) along with general health variables. The paper 
presents sex specific data on risk factors for coronary heart disease. Though 
the cardiovascular mortality is high in Russia, the calculated risk for coronary 
heart disease (the Framingham risk score and the Norwegian risk score) was lower 
in all age groups of men and women in Arkhangelsk compared with studies from the 
Western Europe and USA. Our data suggest that high cardiovascular mortality in 
Russia may be driven not only by the classic risk factors for coronary heart 
disease.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1025626202235
PMID: 14561046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. RNA. 2003 Nov;9(11):1345-52. doi: 10.1261/rna.5120503.

Structures of deacylated tRNA mimics bound to the E site of the large ribosomal 
subunit.

Schmeing TM(1), Moore PB, Steitz TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8114, USA.

During translation, tRNAs cycle through three binding sites on the ribosome: the 
A, the P, and the E sites. We have determined the structures of complexes 
between the Haloarcula marismortui large ribosomal subunit and two different E 
site substrates: a deacylated tRNA acceptor stem minihelix and a CCA-acceptor 
end. Both of these tRNA mimics contain analogs of adenosine 76, the component 
responsible for a large proportion of E site binding affinity. They bind in the 
center of the loop-extension of protein L44e, and make specific contacts with 
both L44e and 23S rRNA including bases that are conserved in all three kingdoms 
of life. These contacts are consistent with the footprinting, protection, and 
cross-linking data that have identified the E site biochemically. These 
structures explain the specificity of the E site for deacylated tRNAs, as it is 
too small to accommodate any relevant aminoacyl-tRNA. The orientation of the 
minihelix suggests that it may mimic the P/E hybrid state. It appears that the E 
site on the 50S subunit was formed by only RNA in the last common ancestor of 
the three kingdoms, since the proteins at the E sites of H. marismortui and 
Deinucoccus radiodurans large subunits are not homologous.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.5120503
PMCID: PMC1287056
PMID: 14561884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2003 Oct 17;128(42):2209-12. doi:
10.1055/s-2003-42975.

[Palliative care: the demand and the realization].

[Article in German]

Becker G(1), Momm F, Baumgartner J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin II, Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Freiburg i. Br. 
becker@med1.ukl.uni-freiburg.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-42975
PMID: 14562221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2003 May-Jun;26(3):251-5. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-003-0007-z.

Clinical outcome following infra-inguinal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
for critical limb ischemia.

Matsagas MI(1), Rivera MA, Tran T, Mitchell A, Robless P, Davies AH, Geroulakos 
G.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Unit, Department of Surgery, Ealing Hospital, Uxbridge Road, 
Southall, Middlesex, UB1 3HW, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and durability of 
infra-inguinal PTA in patients with CLI, in terms of clinical outcome.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of 50 consecutive patients with CLI that were 
exclusively treated by infra-inguinal PTA.
METHODS: The indications for intervention were rest pain in seven (14%) 
patients, non-healing ulcers in 27 (54%), and gangrenous lesions in 16 (32%). 
Thirty-three (66%) of these patients presented with a single arterial lesion, 
and the remaining 17 (34%) with multilevel arterial lesions. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis was used to assess survival, patency, limb-salvage rates, and 
amputation-free survival.
RESULTS: A total of 67 endovascular procedures were performed and 59 (88.1%) of 
them were considered to be technically successful. The median follow-up period 
was 12 months (interquartile range: 17 months). The 30-day mortality was 4%, 
while the cumulative survival rates at 12, 24, and 36 months were 73%, 67%, and 
59%, respectively. The cumulative primary patency rates at 12 and 24 months were 
63% and 52%, respectively, and remained unchanged thereafter. The estimated 
secondary patency rate was 72% at 36 months. There was only one below-knee 
amputation in the patients that were treated exclusively with infra-inguinal 
PTA. The cumulative amputation-free survival at the same period was estimated at 
60%.
CONCLUSIONS: Infra-inguinal PTA had a good early and late outcome in this series 
of patients with a limited life expectancy. These results are comparable to 
historical results of surgical revascularization in the treatment of CLI. There 
is need for a randomized study to determine the primary optimal interventional 
approach for patients with CLI.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-003-0007-z
PMID: 14562973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Perspect Biol Med. 2003 Summer;46(3 Suppl):S65-73.

Are there social determinants of health and disease?

Thisted RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Studies, University of Chicago, 5841 South Maryland 
Avenue, MC 2007, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. thisted@health.bsd.uchicago.edu

The concept of a determinant is tied to the idea of a mechanism for action. 
Ideas from epidemiology, particularly the epidemiologic triad of agent, host, 
and environment, can help to make sense of factors that affect the absence of 
disease or that interfere with a mechanism that alters health. However, 
assembling convincing evidence for the existence of social determinants of 
health is a challenge, in part because of the difficulties of bridging the 
social and biological realms. While social contexts are measured using 
aggregates of individuals, disease and dysfunction occur at the individual 
level, leading to difficult problems of ecological inference. Although social 
factors have been shown to be associated with differences in mortality from 
specific causes, these factors account for only a small portion of the mortality 
from any individual cause. This suggests that the pathways through which social 
factors influence health are affected by their interactions with other factors.

PMID: 14563075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Perspect Biol Med. 2003 Summer;46(3 Suppl):S108-28.

Diminishing returns? The costs and benefits of improving health.

Murphy K(1), Topel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago, 
IL 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Perspect Biol Med. 2003 Summer;46(3 Suppl):S129-37.

In this paper, we develop and apply an economic framework for valuing 
improvements in health, based on Murphy and Topel (2002). Past improvements in 
health and longevity have had enormous social value. By our estimation, the 
contributions to the economic well-being of longer lifetimes have been worth 
about dollar 73 trillion since 1970, or about dollar 2.6 trillion per year. The 
average 50-year-old man gained additional life-years worth roughly dollar 
350,000, while a 50-year-old woman gained about dollar 180,000. Looking ahead, 
prospective benefits from further progress are also large: a 10 percent 
reduction in mortality from heart disease would be worth over dollar 4 trillion, 
and even a 1 percent reduction in cancer deaths would be worth over dollar 400 
billion. These values suggest that public investments in basic medical research 
may yield huge social returns, but distortions in the allocation of medical care 
and in research incentives may yield future benefits that are smaller than the 
costs of achieving them. While the average net health benefits of increased 
medical expenditures are large, costs may have greatly exceeded benefits in 
certain periods and age groups.

PMID: 14563078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Perspect Biol Med. 2003 Summer;46(3 Suppl):S129-37.

Is medical research cost effective? Response to Murphy and Topel.

Siegler M(1), Weisfeld A, Cronin D.

Author information:
(1)MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics, University of Chicago, 5841 South 
Maryland Avenue, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. msiegler@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Comment on
    Perspect Biol Med. 2003 Summer;46(3 Suppl):S108-28.

The paper explores the relationship between medical innovation and cost of 
treatment. The methodology used by Murphy and Topel to calculate the statistical 
value of a life is examined. The authors discuss possible confounding factors, 
such as the general trend of decreasing mortality, and consider the possibility 
that non-medical sources, especially the decrease in tobacco use, may explain 
much of the decrease in mortality rates. The authors suggest an alternative to 
Murphy and Topel's population-level model for assessing the benefits of medical 
technology, based on Lewis Thomas' categorization of three levels of technology: 
non-technology ("caring"), half-way technology (does not reverse or prevent the 
underlying problem), and high technology (preventative or curative). The 
categories are applied to the example of type 1 diabetes mellitus, in which 
quality of life and mortality improvements are clearly the result of 
technological changes and not behavioral modifications. The authors emphasize 
the cost-effectiveness of high technology, which is based on medical research 
advances.

PMID: 14563079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Minerva Anestesiol. 2003 Jun;69(6):527-34; 534-8.

Regional filter heparinization for continuous veno-venous hemofiltration in 
liver transplant recipients.

[Article in English, Italian]

Biancofiore G(1), Esposito M, Bindi L, Stefanini A, Bisà M, Boldrini A, Consani 
G, Filipponi F, Mosca F.

Author information:
(1)Post-surgical and Transplant Intensive Care Unit, 1st Department of 
Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Cisanello Hospital, Pisa, Italy. 
g.biancofiore@med.unipi.it

AIM: To study safety, clinical and operative feasibility of continuous 
veno-venous hemofiltration (CVVH) with anticoagulation only of the filter in 
patients at risk for bleeding.
METHODS: This prospective, comparative, non randomised study was completed at an 
intensive care unit of a teaching NHS hospital. Sixteen liver transplant (LT) 
recipients with acute renal failure needing CVVH were treated with a regional 
anticoagulation protocol (heparin and protamine were administered respectively 
pre- and post-filter) and compared to 11 critically ill subjects who received a 
standard low-heparin treatment. Activated coagulation time (ACT) monitoring was 
used to adjust anticoagulation and heparin neutralization.
RESULTS: Mean circuit life was 35.8+/-13.6 hours (95% CI 28.5-43.1) in patients 
receiving regional anticoagulation and 34.4+/-14 hours in controls (95% CI 
25.5-43.3; p=0.7). Fourty-eight circuits (47.5% of the total) in the 
heparin-protamine group had a life-span longer than 30 hours and other 22 
(21.7%) were changed intentionally after 24 hours of use in absence of clots. 
None of the patients in both the studied groups had bleeding or hemodynamic 
complications and their azotemic control was always satisfactory.
CONCLUSION: In LT recipients, regional anticoagulation can achieve a circuits 
life-span comparable to that from systemic anticoagulation with satisfactory 
safety and simplicity of use.

PMID: 14564251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Harefuah. 2003 Oct;142(10):688-93, 717.

[Updates in osteogenesis imperfecta].

[Article in Hebrew]

Zeitlin L(1), Wientroub S, Blumberg N.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatric Orthopaedics, Dana Children's Hospital, Israel.

Osteogenesis Imperfecta, a heterogenous group of inherited disorders, is 
characterized by both bone fragility and low bone mass. Since the Sillence 
classification of the disease, significant progress has been made in 
understanding the molecular, histological and genetical pathogenesis of the 
disease, and it led to expanded nosology. The multidisciplinary approach 
including rehabilitation, medications and surgery, may significantly improve the 
quality of life and prolong life expectancy.

PMID: 14565069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Sep;44(9):1515-21. doi: 10.3109/10428190309178773.

A randomized trial of induction therapy (daunorubicin, vincristine, prednisone 
versus daunorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, cytarabine and 6-thioguanine) in 
adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia with long-term follow-up: an Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group Study (E3486).

Wiernik PH(1), Cassileth PA, Leong T, Hoagland HC, Bennett JM, Paietta E, Oken 
MM; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study.

Author information:
(1)OLM Cancer Center New York Medical College, 600 East 233rd Street, Bronx, NY 
10466, USA. pwiernik@aol.com

In this study of previously untreated adult acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) 
performed by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, patients were randomized to 
induction therapy with either DVP (daunorubicin 45 mg/m2 daily, days 1, 2 and 3; 
prednisone 60 mg/m2 daily orally days 1-35; and vincristine 2 mg intravenously 
on days 1, 8, 15 and 22) or DATVP (daunorubicin 60 mg/m2 daily, days 1, 2 and 3; 
cytarabine 25 mg/m2 intravenous bolus followed by 200 mg/m2 daily as a 
continuous infusion on days 1-5; 6-thioguanine 100 mg/m2 orally every 12 h on 
days 1-5; vincristine 2 mg intravenously on days 1 and 8; and prednisone 60 
mg/m2/day orally, days 1-7. Complete responders to both regimens received the 
same post-remission therapy, which consisted of a single course of cytarabine 3 
gm/m2 infused over 1 h every 12 h for 12 doses. One month later those patients 
still in remission received six cycles of consolidation therapy with MACHO 
(cyclophosphamide 650 mg/m2, doxorubicin 40 mg/m2 vincristine 2mg all 
intravenously on day 1 with prednisone 100 mg/m2 orally daily on days 1-5. 
Methotrexate 200 mg/m2 intravenously and L-asparaginase 6000 U/m2 were given on 
day 22 and each course was given every 5 weeks. A single dose of intrathecal 
methotrexate was also given with each MACHO course. There were 276 evaluable 
patients randomized in this study. Complete response rates were 71% for DVP and 
58% for DATVP. Median durations of complete response were 5.5 and 6.8 months, 
respectively. Median survival of all randomized patients was 14.4 months in each 
group. DATVP was more toxic than DVP. Intensification of treatment for adults 
with ALL may not improve outcome. Progress in the treatment of adults with ALL 
will require the identification of new agents for this neoplasm.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190309178773
PMID: 14565653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Sep;44(9):1529-33. doi: 10.3109/10428190309178775.

Phase II trial of irinotecan (CPT-11) in relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's 
lymphomas.

Ribrag V(1), Koscielny S, Vantelon JM, Fermé C, Rideller K, Carde P, Bourhis JH, 
Munck JN.

Author information:
(1)Department de Médecine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, 39 Rue C Desmoulins, 94805 
Villejuif, France. ribrag@igr.fr

CPT11, a camptothecin analogue, is a specific DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor, 
with activity in tumor cell lines with MDR expression. CPT11 has a broad 
spectrum of activity in solid tumors (especially in colorectal, gastric and 
small cell lung cancers). Early reports have shown that CPT11 could be active in 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) with low-dose schedules. To further evaluate the 
efficacy and toxicity of CPT11 in patients with refractory or relapsed NHLs, we 
conducted a phase II trial with escalated doses.
PATIENTS AND THERAPY: From 04/98 to 05/01, 28 patients with NHL were enrolled.
PATIENTS CHARACTERISTICS: M/F 21/7; median age: 56 years (range 28-72); Ann 
Arbor stage at the time of the study I/II and III/IV in 6 and 21 patients, 
respectively. Sixteen patients had refractory disease when they were enrolled in 
this phase II study and 8 patients were previously treated with high-dose 
therapy and stem-cell transplantation. CPT11 was administrated at the doses of 
350 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. Six courses were given in patients who achieved CR, PR 
or stable disease. Patients were evaluated every 2 courses. If no grade II or 
more toxicity was observed after the first course, escalated dose (500 mg/m2) 
was then undertaken.
RESULTS: 19/28 patients received more than 2 courses of CPT11 and were evaluated 
for response. Nine patients received one course of therapy because of either 
progressive disease (n = 6), toxicity (n = 2) or refusal (n = 1). Ten patients 
received escalated dose (500 mg/m2). Complete remission and partial was achieved 
in 2/19 patients, stable disease in 7/19, and progressive disease in 10/19 
patients. Median duration of responses was short (3 months, range 1-8 months). 
Seventy-five courses were evaluated for toxicity according to the WHO criteria. 
Diarrhea grade 2 or 3 occurred in 9/75 courses; cholinergic syndrome grade 2 in 
3/75 courses; nausea grade 3 in 7/75 courses. Hematological toxicity: leucopenia 
grade 3 or 4 in 21/75 courses; thrombocytopenia grade 3 in 8/75 courses; 
infectious episodes grade 2 or 3 in 7/75 courses. In 2/7 courses with escalated 
doses, grade I/IV neutropenia occurred withoutother major toxicity.
CONCLUSION: CPT11 has low activity in heavily pretreated NHLs. Responses were of 
short duration.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190309178775
PMID: 14565655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Sep;44(9):1545-8. doi: 10.3109/10428190309178778.

Pamidronate reduces skeletal events but does not improve progression-free 
survival in early-stage untreated myeloma: results of a randomized trial.

Musto P(1), Falcone A, Sanpaolo G, Bodenizza C, Cascavilla N, Melillo L, 
Scalzulli PR, Dell'Olio M, La Sala A, Mantuano S, Nobile M, Carella AM.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della 
Sofferenza Hospital, 71013, S. Giovanni Rotondo, Italy. p.musto@tin.it

Ninety patients with untreated, stage I-II A myeloma, were randomised to receive 
or not monthly infusions of pamidronate (PMD) for 1 year, without additional 
therapies. Follow-up ranged from 36 to 72 months (median 51 months). Three years 
after the start of the treatment, the disease had progressed in 25% of PMD 
treated patients and in 26.8% of controls (p n.s). Median time-to-progression 
was 16 and 17.4 months, respectively (p n.s). Among the 21 patients who required 
chemo-radiotherapy, skeletal events (osteolytic lesions, pathological fractures 
and/or hypercalcemia) developed in 9/11 (81.8%) controls and in 4/10 (40%) of 
treated patients (p < 0.01). "Prophylactic" administration of PMD may decrease 
the development of skeletal events, but does not reduce the rate and the time of 
disease progression in early-stage myeloma.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190309178778
PMID: 14565658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Unfallchirurg. 2003 Jun;106(6):467-71. doi: 10.1007/s00113-003-0597-6.

[Femoral neck fractures in the elderly -- bipolar hemiarthroplasty in total hip 
replacement].

[Article in German]

Schleicher I(1), Kordelle J, Jürgensen I, Haas H, Melzer C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Orthopädische Chirurgie, 
Universitätsklinikum Giessen, Paul-Meimberg-Str. 3, 35385 Giessen. 
iris.schleicher@ortho.med.uni-giessen.de

INTRODUCTION: In this study surgical risk and functional outcome of bipolar 
hemiarthroplasty and total hip replacement in elderly patients with femoral neck 
fractures were compared.
METHODS: In a prospective study 54 patients with femoral neck fractures (median 
age: 80.5 years) were treated by implanting a total hip replacement (group I). 
Group II comprised 52 patients with 55 femoral neck fractures (median age: 81 
years) who underwent bipolar hemiarthroplsty. Pre- and postoperative mobility 
and social history, perioperative parameters such as duration of surgery, blood 
loss, and number of transfused blood units as well as postoperative 
complications and mortality were compared. Function was ascertained by a scoring 
system.
RESULTS: Duration of surgery, blood loss, and numbers of transfused blood units 
were significantly lower in group II, and mortality rate was lower. 
Postoperative mobility and medium-term functional score were comparable, whereas 
in the longer-term follow-up after 8 years group I had a significantly better 
functional score.
CONCLUSION: In elderly patients with femoral neck fracture and high comorbidity, 
we recommend the implantation of hemiarthroplasty and in healthy, active 
patients with longer life expectancy the total hip replacement.

DOI: 10.1007/s00113-003-0597-6
PMID: 14567174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Hypertens Res. 2003 Aug;26(8):597-601. doi: 10.1291/hypres.26.597.

Time-series analysis of systolic blood pressure variation in thirty-three Uygur 
centenarians in China.

Kawamura H(1), Ozawa Y, Jumabay M, Mitsubayashi H, Izumi Y, Mahmut M, Ming MY, 
Aisa M, Cheng ZH, Wang SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Nippon Dental University School of Dentistry, Tokyo, 
Japan. kawamura@tokyo.ndu.ac.jp

The Uygur are reported to have an unusually long life expectancy. The purpose of 
this research was to perform a time-series analysis of systolic blood pressure 
(SBP) variations in the Uygur and clarify the role of blood pressure variation 
(BPV) in their longevity. A cross-sectional survey was carried out in Hotan. We 
investigated 133 clinically healthy elderly Uygur subjects and divided them into 
two groups: 1) 33 Uygur centenarians in Hotan (UCH; aged > or = 100 years); and 
2) 100 elderly Uygur in Hotan (UEH; aged 65-70 years). Blood pressure (BP) was 
monitored and analyzed with ambulatory BP monitoring. The frequency domain 
measures were obtained with the maximum entropy method. The mean 24-h SBP was 
higher in UCH than in UEH. The ratio of non-dipper type BPV was larger in the 
UCH than in UEH. The highest power spectral density occurred over a 12-h rather 
than a 24-h period in both UCH and UEH. Ultradian BPVs were more frequent in UCH 
than in UEH. The least square-fitting curves demonstrated that the maximum 
values, minimum values, and mean 24-h SBP values were higher in UCH than in UEH. 
The higher BP and greater number of ultradian BPVs in UCH may have been due to 
the greater energy expenditure for maintaining daily activities in this 
population. Factors such as meals, daytime naps, nocturnal micturition, 
decreased baroreceptor sensitivity, and arterial sclerosis may also have 
contributed to the higher ultradian BPVs. In conclusion, BPV in the 12-h is more 
dominant than in the 24-h in both UCH and UEH. BPVs in the 3-h and 4-h are more 
frequent in UCH than those in UEH.

DOI: 10.1291/hypres.26.597
PMID: 14567497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Hepatol. 2003 Nov;39(5):814-25. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(03)00392-1.

Screening for hepatitis C in genito-urinary medicine clinics: a cost utility 
analysis.

Stein K(1), Dalziel K, Walker A, Jenkins B, Round A, Royle P.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, University of Exeter, Southernhay 
East, Exeter EX1 1PQ, UK. ken.stein@exeter.ac.uk

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To estimate the cost utility (cost per QALY) of screening for 
hepatitis C (HCV) infection in people attending genito-urinary medicine clinics 
in England.
METHODS: An epidemiological model of screening and diagnosis was combined with a 
Markov chain model of treatment with combination therapy to estimate cost 
utility. Parameters for the model were informed by literature review, expert 
opinion and a survey of current screening practice.
RESULTS: The base case estimate was about pound 85,000 per QALY. Selective 
screening is more cost effective. If screening is restricted to only 20% or 10% 
of attenders, cost utility is estimated as pound 39,647 and pound 34,288 per 
QALY. If screening is restricted only to those with a history of injecting drug 
use, cost utility would be pound 27,138 per QALY. Estimates are particularly 
sensitive to acceptance rates for screening and treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal screening for HCV in GUM clinics is unlikely to be cost 
effective. There is limited evidence to support screening of people other than 
those with a history of injecting drug use and even this policy should be 
considered with some care and in the context of further research.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(03)00392-1
PMID: 14568266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003 Oct;56(10):977-82. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(03)00159-8.

Absolute benefit, number needed to treat and gain in life expectancy: which 
efficacy indices for measuring the treatment benefit?

Kassai B(1), Gueyffier F, Boissel JP, Boutitie F, Cucherat M.

Author information:
(1)EA 643/Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Claude Bernard University, Facultá RTH 
Laennec, Rue Guillaume Paradin BP 8071-69376, Lyon 08, France. bkoupai@ucla.edu

The absolute benefit (AB) is extensively used to summarize the results of 
clinical trials. As the AB depends directly on the patient's baseline risk, 
therapeutic decisions based on AB tend to favor patients at high risk. To 
evaluate the consequences of this decision's procedure for life-long therapy, we 
compare the AB with the gain in event-free life expectancy in a simulated 
hypertensive population. Our results show that the AB goes through a maximum and 
then declines as the duration of treatment increases. The amplitude of the 
variation of AB is independent of the baseline risks but the maximum is reached 
more quickly in the high-risk patients. Considering the gain in event-free life 
expectancy, low-risk patients benefit more than high-risk patients do, at the 
expense of a longer treatment exposure. The interpretation of the AB changes 
depending on follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(03)00159-8
PMID: 14568629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Nov;14(11):2851-60. doi: 
10.1097/01.asn.0000091585.45723.9e.

Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis: comparison of adjusted mortality rates 
according to the duration of dialysis: analysis of The Netherlands Cooperative 
Study on the Adequacy of Dialysis 2.

Termorshuizen F(1), Korevaar JC, Dekker FW, Van Manen JG, Boeschoten EW, Krediet 
RT; Netherlands Cooperative Study on the Adequacy of Dialysis Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and Nephrology, 
Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
FTermorshuizen@cs.com

Various studies indicate that fair comparisons of mortality rates between 
hemodialysis (HD) patients and peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients are difficult 
because of differences in patient characteristics, because of nonconstant 
relative risks of death (RR), and because the survival times of patients who 
switch treatment modalities can be censored in different ways. The differences 
in mortality rates between HD and PD patients were investigated in an analysis 
in which these potential sources of bias were taken into account. The 
Netherlands Cooperative Study on the Adequacy of Dialysis is a multicenter, 
prospective, observational, cohort study in which new patients with ESRD are 
monitored until transplantation or death. A multivariate Cox regression analysis 
was used to analyze the mortality data according to treatment modality (HD, n = 
742; PD, n = 480). No statistically significant differences in adjusted 
mortality rates between HD and PD patients were observed during the first 2 yr 
of dialysis. In the years thereafter, increases in mortality rates for PD 
patients and resulting decreases in RR in favor of HD were observed (e.g., 
months 24 to 36, adjusted RR, 0.53; 95% confidence interval, 0.31 to 0.91). This 
tendency was observed especially among patients >/=60 yr of age and was not 
