influenced by the censoring strategy. These results suggest that long-term use 
of PD, especially among elderly patients, is associated with increases in 
mortality rates. Further analyses are required to determine the potential role 
of dialysis adequacy in the observed long-term differences in mortality rates 
between HD and PD patients and to establish the possible survival benefits for 
PD patients who switch to HD in time.

DOI: 10.1097/01.asn.0000091585.45723.9e
PMID: 14569095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Przegl Lek. 2003;60(4):249-50.

[Longevity of physicians and medical scientists born from 1880 to 1904].

[Article in Polish]

Chodorowski Z(1), Waldman W, Salamon M, Wiśniewski M, Anand JS.

Author information:
(1)I Klinika Chorób Wewnetrznych i Ostrych Zatruć Akademii Medycznej w Gdańsku, 
80-952 Gdańsk, ul. Debinki 7.

Analysis of biographies of 319 physicians (302 men and 17 women) born from 1880 
to 1904, who died from natural causes, was carried out on the basis of annals of 
medical universities in Poland. Due to small number of women they were excluded 
from further analysis. There were no statistically significant differences in 
duration of life between medical scientists- professors, Ph.D. (n = 212, mean = 
73.9 +/- 10 yrs) and physicians with the doctor's degree or without any 
scientific degrees (n = 90, mean = 72.6 +/- 11.4) and among medical scientists 
working in different fields--basic research (n = 42, mean = 75.1 +/- 9.7), 
non-invasive disciplines (n = 64, mean = 72.0 +/- 9.9), surgical disciplines (n 
= 89, mean = 74.4 +/- 11.0), disciplines with limited contact with patients (n = 
17, mean = 75.8 +/- 9.0). Average life expectancy at the age of sixty in the 
whole examined group (16.1 +/- 8.6 yrs) was not statistically different from the 
general population of men born in the same period (15.1 yrs).

PMID: 14569894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2003 Sep 18;52(3):1-115.

Deaths: final data for 2001.

Arias E(1), Anderson RN, Kung HC, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2001 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic 
origin, race, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State of 
residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described. A previous 
report presented preliminary mortality data for 2001.
METHODS: In 2001 a total of 2,416,425 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, 
and coroners complete death certificates. Original records are filed in the 
State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a national 
database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the National Center 
for Health Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Causes 
of death are processed in accordance with the International Classification of 
Diseases Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate for the United States in 2001 was 854.5 
deaths per 100,000 standard population, representing a decrease of 1.7 percent 
from the 2000 rate and a record low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth 
rose by 0.2 years to a record high of 77.2 years. Considering all deaths, 
age-specific death rates rose only for those 25-44 years, and declined for a 
number of age groups including those under 1 year, 5-14 years, 55-64 years, 
65-74 years, 75-84 years, and 85 years and over. The 15 leading causes of death 
in 2001 remained the same as in 2000. Heart disease and cancer continued to be 
the leading and second leading causes of death, together accounting for over 
half of all deaths. Homicide became the 13th leading cause in 2001, rising from 
the 14th leading cause in 2000 as a result of the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks. The infant mortality rate remained at a record low level, declining 
slightly but insignificantly from 6.9 in 2000 to 6.8 in 2001.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality patterns in 2001 were consistent with 
long-term trends. Life expectancy in 2001 increased again to a new record level. 
The age-adjusted death rate declined to a record low historical figure. Although 
statistically unchanged from 2000, the trend in infant mortality has shown a 
steady, although slowing, decline. The declining trend in the homicide death 
rate was reversed primarily as a result of the September 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks.

PMID: 14570230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Aging Cell. 2003 Oct;2(5):265-75. doi: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00061.x.

Age-related changes in the metabolism and body composition of three dog breeds 
and their relationship to life expectancy.

Speakman JR(1), van Acker A, Harper EJ.

Author information:
(1)Aberdeen Centre for Energy Regulation and Obesity, School of Biological 
Sciences, Zoology Building, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, Scotland, 
UK. j.speakman@abdn.ac.uk

We measured body composition and resting metabolic rates (RMR) of three dog 
breeds (Papillons, mean body mass 3.0 kg (n = 35), Labrador retrievers, mean 
body mass 29.8 kg (n = 35) and Great Danes, mean body mass 62.8 kg (n = 35)) 
that varied between 0.6 and 14.3 years of age. In Papillons, lean body mass 
(LBM) increased with age but fat mass (FBM) was constant; in Labradors, both LBM 
and FBM were constant with age, and in Great Danes, FBM increased with age but 
LBM was constant. FBM averaged 14.8% and 15.7% of body mass in Papillons and 
Labradors, respectively. Great Danes were leaner and averaged only 10.5% FBM. 
Pooling the data for all individuals, the RMR was significantly and positively 
associated with LBM and FBM and negatively associated with age. Once these 
factors had been taken into account there was still a significant breed effect 
on RMR, which was significantly lower in Labradors than in the other two breeds. 
Using the predictive multiple regression equation for RMR and the temporal 
trends in body composition, we modelled the expenditure of energy (at rest) over 
the first 8 years of life, and over the entire lifespan for each breed. Over the 
first 8 years of life the average expenditure of energy per kg LBM were 0.985, 
0.675 and 0.662 GJ for Papillons, Labradors and Great Danes, respectively. This 
energy expenditure was almost 60% greater for the smallest compared with the 
largest breed. On average, however, the life expectancy for the smallest breed 
was a further 6 years (i.e. 14 years in total), whereas for the largest breed it 
was only another 6 months (i.e. 8.5 years in total). Total lifetime expenditure 
of energy at rest per kg LBM averaged 1.584, 0.918 and 0.691 GJ for Papillons, 
Labradors and Great Danes, respectively. In Labradors, total daily energy 
expenditure, measured by the doubly labelled water method in eight animals, was 
only 16% greater than the observed RMR. High energy expenditure in dogs appears 
positively linked to increased life expectancy, contrary to the finding across 
mammal species and within exotherms, yet resembling observations in other 
intra-specific studies. These contrasting correlations suggest that metabolism 
is affecting life expectancy in different ways at these different levels of 
enquiry.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1474-9728.2003.00061.x
PMID: 14570234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Med Decis Making. 2003 Sep-Oct;23(5):361-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03256881.

Use of regression modeling to simulate patient-specific decision analysis for 
patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

Johnston JA(1), Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Ohio, USA. johnstonja@lilly.com

PURPOSE: To create a Web-based decision support tool that uses a simple 
regression equation to simulate performance of patient-specific decision 
analysis (PSDA) for patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
METHODS: Patient-level data were used, along with decision model estimates of 
the gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy associated with anticoagulant 
therapy to train regression models. Models involving successively higher order 
polynomial functions were evaluated.
RESULTS: Quadratic (R2 = 0.89) and cubic (R2 = 0.97) regression models provided 
incremental benefit over a simple linear model (R2 = 0.56). For the cubic model, 
95% of estimates were within 0.26 QALYs of decision model estimates. The cubic 
model accurately predicted actual decision model recommendations (AUROC of 
0.957).
CONCLUSIONS: Regression modeling can be used to simulate the performance of PSDA 
for patients with atrial fibrillation. This approach can be used to create fast, 
reliable, and portable decision support tools to improve patient care.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03256881
PMID: 14570294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Med Decis Making. 2003 Sep-Oct;23(5):379-96. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03256883.

The impact of ignoring population heterogeneity when Markov models are used in 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zaric GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Richard Ivey School of Business, University of Western Ontario, London, 
Ontario, Canada. gzaric@ivey.uwo.ca

Erratum in
    Med Decis Making. 2004 May-Jun;24(3):320.

Many factors related to the spread and progression of diseases vary throughout a 
population. This heterogeneity is frequently ignored in cost-effectiveness 
analyses by using average or representative values or by considering multiple 
risk groups. The author explores the impact that such simplifying assumptions 
may have on the results and interpretation of cost-effectiveness analyses when 
Markov models are used to calculate the costs and health impact of 
interventions. A discrete-time Markov model for a disease is defined, and 5 
potential interventions are considered. Health benefits, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios are calculated for each intervention. It is assumed 
that the population is heterogeneous with respect to the probability of becoming 
sick. Ignoring this heterogeneity may lead to optimistic or pessimistic 
estimates of cost-effectiveness ratios, depending on the intervention and, in 
some cases, the parameter values. Implications are discussed of this finding on 
the use of league tables and on comparisons of cost-effectiveness ratios versus 
commonly accepted threshold values.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03256883
PMID: 14570296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. ScientificWorldJournal. 2003 Oct 13;3:1015-9. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2003.79.

Measurement of quality of life VI. Quality-adjusted life years (QALY) is an 
unfortunate use of the quality-of-life concept.

Ventegodt S(1), Merrick J, Andersen NJ.

Author information:
(1)The Quality of Life Research Center, Copenhagen K, Denmark. 
ventegodt@livskvalitet.org

The QALY (quality-adjusted life years) attempts to incorporate the dimension of 
quality of life into the evaluation by adjusting life years by a quality factor. 
In practice, this is based on discussing with people the progression of a number 
of hypothetical illnesses and their ensuing side effects. From this information, 
the person assesses how each state of health described compares with a 
theoretical maximum state of health. For example, 1 day with a certain condition 
might the equivalent of living only 0.5 days in good health. We believe that 
QALY value only represents a superficial impression of a person's quality of 
life. In short, the QALY does not express what it means for a person to live a 
life at reduced quality. We believe that if the patients were optimally informed 
and allowed to decide for themselves, they would more often reject high-tech 
expensive biomedical treatments that only serve to prolong life and do not 
increase its quality. The problem of priorities may then turn out to be far more 
simple and also more ethical: the focus will be on the quality of life, not on 
QALY, and the question of the meaning of life and death will achieve greater 
openness and respect.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2003.79
PMCID: PMC5974810
PMID: 14570991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. AIDS. 2003 Nov 7;17(16):2279-90. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200311070-00002.

Update on chronic hepatitis C in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients: viral interactions 
and therapy.

Bräu N.

Erratum in
    AIDS. 2004 Jan 2;18(1):135.

With highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), HIV-infected patients can now 
live longer and healthier lives, and other comorbid diseases, such as chronic 
hepatitis C, have emerged as a significant health concern. Coinfection with the 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) may limit life expectancy because it can lead to serious 
liver disease including decompensated liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular 
carcinoma. HCV-induced fibrosis progresses faster in HIV/HCV-coinfected persons, 
although HAART may be able to decrease this disease acceleration. Combination 
therapy for HCV with interferon and ribavirin can achieve a sustained viral 
response, although at a lower rate than in HCV-monoinfected patients. 
Combination treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin will probably 
emerge as the next HCV therapy of choice for HIV/HCV-coinfected patients. HCV 
combination therapy is generally safe, but serious adverse reactions, like 
lactic acidosis, may occur. Cytopenia may present a problem leading to dose 
reductions, but the role of growth factors is under study. All 
HIV/HCV-coinfected patients should be evaluated for therapy against the 
hepatitis C virus. A sustained viral load will probably lead to regression of 
liver disease, and even interferon-based treatment without viral clearance may 
slow down progression of liver disease. HIV/HCV-coinfected patients who have 
progressed to end-stage liver disease have few therapeutic options other than 
palliative care, since liver transplants are generally unavailable. The 
mortality post-transplant may be higher than in HCV-monoinfected patients. We 
are entering an era where safe and effective HCV therapy is being defined for 
HIV/HCV-coinfected patients, and all eligible patients should be offered 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200311070-00002
PMID: 14571179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Geriatr Nurs. 2003 Sep-Oct;24(5):278-85. doi: 10.1016/s0197-4572(03)00242-8.

The Older Men's Health Program and Screening Inventory: a tool for assessing 
health practices and beliefs.

Loeb SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA.

Men experience greater health risks, poorer health, and shorter life expectancy 
than women.(1) However, a systematic literature review revealed no measure to 
assess the health practices and beliefs of elderly men. In response, the Older 
Men's Health Program and Screening Inventory (OMHPSI) was developed. Nursing 
practice experience and a review of literature informed instrument development. 
Subsequent to an expert panel survey and pilot-testing, the OMHPSI was completed 
by 135 community-dwelling older men and found to be an informative baseline 
assessment tool congruent with the Healthy People 2010 goal of increasing 
elders' participation in organized health promotion activities.(2) Furthermore, 
several statistically significant correlations were found between items on the 
OMHPSI and demographic variables. Of particular note, the younger participants 
in this study experienced more barriers to health-promoting behaviors (P < or 
=.01), had less healthy lifestyles (P < or =.05), and were less satisfied with 
their health behaviors (P < or =.001) compared with their older counterparts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4572(03)00242-8
PMID: 14571242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Can J Cardiol. 2003 Oct;19(11):1285-304.

Review of economic evaluations of radiofrequency catheter ablation for cardiac 
arrhythmias.

Marshall DA(1), O'Brien BJ, Nichol G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University 
and Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, Canada. 
marshd@mcmaster.ca

A systematic review of current studies on the cost effectiveness of catheter 
ablation for treatment of tachycardia in adults was undertaken. The results are 
summarized based on a predefined framework of principles for economic 
evaluation. Of 192 abstracts identified, only three cost effectiveness studies 
were identified. Each focused on a different and specific patient group with 
selected target disorders, and used decision analysis modelling to estimate cost 
effectiveness. Radiofrequency catheter ablation is likely to be economically 
attractive compared with drug therapy in adult patients with frequently 
symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (radiofrequency catheter 
ablation dominates drug therapy options) or in ventricular tachycardia patients 
with pre-existing ischemic coronary disease (cost effectiveness ratio of about 
US $21,000 per quality adjusted life year), but not in the treatment of 
asymptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome patients. However, these studies 
evaluated different types of tachycardias in differing patient populations and 
all are based on United States data, so decision-makers must be cautious when 
applying these results to a general population with tachycardia in the Canadian 
context.

PMID: 14571313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Nuklearmedizin. 2003 Oct;42(5):181-9.

[Prevention, screening and therapy of thyroid diseases and their 
cost-effectiveness].

[Article in German]

Dietlein M(1), Moka D, Schmidt M, Theissen P, Schicha H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Nuklearmedizin der Universität zu Köln, 50924 Köln, 
Germany. markus.dietlein@uni-koeln.de

Cost-effectiveness analyses focused on benign thyroid diseases are 
under-represented in the literature. The calculation of costs per additionally 
gained life year is difficult: The benefit of prevention is shifted into the 
distant future. The influence of an untreated subclinical thyroid disease on 
life expectancy can only be demonstrated by a long-term follow-up and by 
epidemiological databases. Iodine supplementation and programs for the 
prevention of tobacco smoking (primary prevention) are very cost-effective. 
Smoking increases the risk both of multinodular goiter and of Graves' disease. 
Screening programs (secondary prevention) are discussed for the laboratory 
parameters thyrotropin (TSH), calcium and calcitonin. TSH testing seems to be 
very cost-effective for epidemiological considerations in a certain lifespan 
(newborn, pregnancy, postpartal, older persons, hospitalisation due to acute 
diseases) and in persons with previously elevated TPO-antibodies or TSH-values 
>2 mU/l, but dedicated cost-effectiveness analyses are lacking. On the other 
hand, the cost-effectiveness of a routine TSH testing beyond the age of 35 years 
has been shown by a high-quality decision analysis. Therapeutic strategies 
(tertiary prevention) aim at the avoidance of complications (atrial 
fibrillation, myocardial infarction, death for cardiac reasons) and of 
iatrogenic complications. Examples of a tertiary prevention are: firstly the 
definitive therapy of Graves' disease in patients who have an increased risk of 
relapse after antithyroid drugs (ATD), secondly the radioiodine therapy for 
subclinical hyperthyroidism and the radioiodine therapy of large goiters in 
older patients or in patients suffering from a relevant comorbidity. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses for different therapeutic strategies of Graves' 
disease were published using a lifelong time-horizon. The ablative radioiodine 
dose-regime is cost-effective as a first line therapy if the risk of relapse 
after ATD exceeds 60%.

PMID: 14571314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Prev Med. 2003 Nov;37(5):507-12. doi: 10.1016/s0091-7435(03)00177-4.

Breast cancer and the uptake of mammography screening services by women with 
intellectual disabilities.

Sullivan SG(1), Glasson EJ, Hussain R, Petterson BA, Slack-Smith LM, Montgomery 
PD, Bittles AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Genetics, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia.

BACKGROUND: It is estimated that approximately 50% of women in Australia with 
intellectual disability will live to 70 years of age and as a result many will 
fall within the age group at highest risk for breast cancer (50-69 years).
METHODS: Subjects were identified through the Western Australia Disability 
Services database. To determine the number of women diagnosed with breast cancer 
during the period 1982-2000, individual records (n = 2,370) were linked to the 
Western Australia Cancer Registry and the Mammography Screening Registry.
RESULTS: The incidence of breast cancer among women with intellectual disability 
was 64.0 per 100,000 person-years, by comparison with 146.7 per 100,000 
person-years in the general population. The uptake of breast cancer screening 
was examined in a subgroup of 380 women, 34.7% of whom had used mammographic 
screening, as opposed to 54.6% screening uptake in the general population. 
Failure to use screening services was highest in women who were unmarried, and 
was positively associated with severity of intellectual disability, presence of 
physical disabilities, and urban residence.
CONCLUSIONS: The lower incidence of breast cancer in women with intellectual 
disability may in part be attributable to decreased life expectancy, but it also 
appears to reflect significant under utilization of the readily available 
screening services.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-7435(03)00177-4
PMID: 14572435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Am J Gastroenterol. 2003 Oct;98(10):2176-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.07718.x.

Prognostic factors for the survival of patients with AIDS cholangiopathy.

Ko WF(1), Cello JP, Rogers SJ, Lecours A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Medical Service, San Francisco General 
Hospital, and Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, 
California 94110, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2003 Oct;98(10):2111-2.

OBJECTIVES: AIDS cholangiopathy, once considered to have extremely poor 
prognosis, is now rarely fatal. This study was designed to assess the survival 
of patients with AIDS cholangiopathy and investigate prognostic variables, 
especially in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
METHODS: Ninety-four patients with AIDS cholangiopathy were diagnosed at the San 
Francisco General Hospital from 1983 to 2001. The mortality status, demographic 
and clinical variables, and ERCP results were collected through death 
certificates, chart review, and endoscopic reports.
RESULTS: The median survival time from the diagnosis of AIDS and AIDS 
cholangiopathy was 23 and 9 months, respectively. HAART significantly improved 
the mortality of patients with AIDS cholangiopathy (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.08, 
95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.02-0.35). The presence or history of any 
opportunistic infection involving the digestive tract, lung, eye, nervous 
system, skin, or systemic involvement at the time when AIDS cholangiopathy was 
diagnosed was an indicator of poor prognosis (HR = 3.24, 95% CI = 1.45-7.26); 
this was especially true for cryptosporidial infection (HR = 2.05, 95% CI = 
1.24-3.38). Patients with high serum ALP levels, especially greater than 1000 
IU/L or eight times the normal value (HR = 2.69, 95% CI = 1.10-6.60), tended to 
have a shorter life expectancy than those with normal or slightly elevated serum 
ALP levels. CD4 lymphocyte counts, type of cholangiopathy, and the performance 
of sphincterotomy were not correlated with the survival of patients with AIDS 
cholangiopathy.
CONCLUSIONS: HAART administration most likely accounts for the recent dramatic 
improvement in survival of patients with AIDS cholangiopathy. Underlying 
immunosuppressive status, reflected by the presence or history of any 
opportunistic infections, is associated with a worse outcome. Serum ALP levels 
might be a good clinical indicator for the prognosis of patients with AIDS 
cholangiopathy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.07718.x
PMID: 14572564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Infect Immun. 2003 Nov;71(11):6463-71. doi:
10.1128/IAI.71.11.6463-6471.2003.

Lung epithelial cells and extracellular matrix components induce expression of 
Pneumocystis carinii STE20, a gene complementing the mating and pseudohyphal 
growth defects of STE20 mutant yeast.

Kottom TJ(1), Köhler JR, Thomas CF Jr, Fink GR, Limper AH.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine and Biochemistry, Mayo Clinic and 
Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

Pneumocystis carinii causes severe pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts. The 
binding of P. carinii to alveolar epithelial cells and extracellular matrix 
constituents such as fibronectin and vitronectin is a central feature of 
infection, which initiates proliferation of the organism. Herein, we demonstrate 
that P. carinii binding to lung cells specifically alters the gene expression of 
the organism, regulating fungal growth. Subtractive hybridization was performed 
to isolate P. carinii genes expressed following binding to mammalian 
extracellular matrix constituents. P. carinii STE20 (PCSTE20), a gene 
participating in mating and pseudohyphal growth of other fungi, was identified 
following adherence to the extracellular matrix constituents fibronectin, 
vitronectin, collagen, and lung epithelial cells. The expression of PCSTE20 and 
a related P. carinii mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase gene, also 
implicated in signaling of mating, were both specifically upregulated by binding 
to matrix protein. The expression of general cyclin-dependent kinases and other 
MAPKs not involved in mating pathways were not altered by organism binding. 
PCSTE20 expression was also strongly enhanced following organism attachment to 
A549 lung epithelial cells. When expressed in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
ste20Delta mutant, PCSTE20 suppressed defects in both mating and pseudohyphal 
growth. These findings are consistent with the observed proliferation and 
filopodial extension of Pneumocystis organisms adherent to the epithelium in the 
lungs of immunocompromised hosts. PCSTE20 expression appears to represent a 
significant component in the regulation of the life cycle of this intractable 
opportunistic pathogen.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.71.11.6463-6471.2003
PMCID: PMC219549
PMID: 14573668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Fam Cancer. 2003;2(1):35-42. doi: 10.1023/a:1023208707085.

The effect of disease penetrance, family size, and age of onset on family 
history with application to setting eligibility criteria for genetic testing.

Sibert A(1), Goldgar DE.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Genetic Epidemiology, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France.

The concept of family history of disease has been used as a surrogate for 
genetic susceptibility in many epidemiological studies and has also been 
important as a criterion for selecting individuals for genetic testing. However, 
little is known about the precise interplay between the true genetic model 
(genotype-specific penetrances, age of onset distribution), life expectancy, and 
reproductive patterns in determining the level of family history. In order to 
address these questions, we performed a simulation study to address these 
relationships. Factors examined were the age-, sex-, and genotype-specific 
penetrance of the disease and the distribution of the number of offspring per 
family. When considering the average number of affected individuals among 
first-degree relatives of mutation positive probands, penetrance-related factors 
accounted for 64% of the variance in the average number of affected first-degree 
relatives, and 58% of the variance in the number of affected first- or 
second-degree relatives. In general, the average proportion of mutation-positive 
probands with at least one affected first-degree relative was low, especially 
for a sex-limited disease, ranging between 20% and 46%, depending on the 
lifetime penetrance in mutation carriers. Lack of family history among 
first-degree relatives of mutation positive probands is not necessarily 
unexpected even for loci conferring relatively high lifetime risk. In selecting 
probands for genetic testing, we found that under a wide variety of conditions, 
criteria based on the number of affected among first- and second-degree 
relatives were superior to those based on first-degree family history alone.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1023208707085
PMID: 14574165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Fam Cancer. 2001;1(3-4):157-62. doi: 10.1023/a:1021113715998.

Comparison of physicians' and cancer prone women's attitudes about 
breast/ovarian prophylactic surgery. Results from two national surveys.

Eisinger F(1), Stoppa-Lyonnet D, Lasset C, Vennin P, Chabal F, Noguès C, Moatti 
JP, Sobol H, Julian-Reynier C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U379, Marseille, France. eisinger@merseille.insermfr

Prophylactic surgery is a major issue for breast/ovarian cancer prone women. 
Bio-clinical data to help in the decision-making are not sufficient. In this 
context of uncertainty, physicians' and women's attitudes to prophylactic 
surgery is information of great value. The physicians' attitudes were assessed 
by a randomised national sample of practitioners involved in breast and ovarian 
cancer management. The patients' attitudes were appraised with a 
pre-consultation self- administered questionnaire presented during a one-year 
period to all women in five cancer genetic clinics chosen, for their 
representative geographical locations and their activity level. Consent to 
prophylactic surgery is higher among physicians than among patients (p < 
0.0001). Acceptability of mastectomy is lower than that of oophorectomy in both 
patients and physicians (p < 0.0001 in both groups). In addition, age at which 
the intervention is proposed to be performed is a key determinant for both 
mastectomy and oophorectomy acceptability, in both physicians and patients (p < 
0.001 for each comparison). Particularly, the age of 40 years seems to be a 
critical threshold for the acceptability of prophylactic oophorectomy. In 
contrast, respondents' age at the time of the survey has no significant effect 
on the acceptability rate. The higher acceptability rate of prophylactic 
oophorectomy compared to that of mastectomy observed in the physicians' survey 
is paradoxical because a more substantial medical impact on life expectancy was 
expected from the latter. Our results indicate that assumed reduced mortality is 
not the main criterion steering acceptability. It was anticipated that 
prophylactic mastectomy should be rarely performed in France.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021113715998
PMID: 14574172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Indian Med Assoc. 2003 May;101(5):299-300, 302-4.

Epidemiological study of neurological disorders in a rural population of Eastern 
India.

Saha SP(1), Bhattacharya S, Das SK, Maity B, Roy T, Raut DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuromedicine, Bangur Institute of Neurology, Kolkata 700025.

Comment in
    J Indian Med Assoc. 2004 Feb;102(2):108.

The study was conducted to determine the prevalence of neurological diseases in 
a rural community in Eastern India through a community based survey with the 
help of trained doctors following on WHO protocol (1981) translated in local 
vernacular, among 20842 rural residents (male-11037, female-9805, census 
India-1991, the State of West Bengal in Eastern India) over a period of one 
yearfrom May 1992 to April 1993 in two phases. Professionals screened the 
patients by house to house survey in the first phase and later on they were 
examined in details in temporary clinics in second phase. A total of 606 
patients were identified and classified according to well-defined diagnostic 
criteria. The commonest diseases per 100,000 were headache: 870, vertebral 
diseases with neurological involvement: 540, seizure disorders: 360, vertigo: 
230, stroke: 147, movement disorders: 140, peripheral neuropathy: 80. The age 
and sex specific prevalence showed increasing frequency of neurological 
disorders with advancing age in both genders excepting slight dip in the fourth 
and fifth decades among females. In the present study prevalence of headache, 
epilepsy, stroke and Parkinson's disease was lower than that of in the Western 
countries. Different inclusion criteria, multiethnicity, different environmental 
factors, poor medical facility and insufficient number of aged population may be 
responsible for lower prevalence of chronic neurological disorders as compared 
to Western countries. Increase in the life expectancy in future will lead to 
increasing burden of chronic neurological diseases in absolute term in Indian 
society considering the one billion population at present.

PMID: 14575218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2003;5(3):137-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00195.x.

Prospective multicenter study on immediate rehabilitation of edentulous lower 
jaws according to the Brånemark Novum protocol.

Henry PJ(1), van Steenberghe D, Blombäck U, Polizzi G, Rosenberg R, Urgell JP, 
Wendelhag I.

Author information:
(1)The Brånemark Centre, 64 Havelock Street, West Perth, WA 6005, Australia. 
patrick1@iinet.net.au

BACKGROUND: During recent years a new treatment concept, Brånemark Novum, has 
been developed in which implants are inserted in the edentulous lower jaw and 
immediately connected to a prefabricated titanium bar. A fixed prosthesis is 
then attached to the bar during or immediately following surgery.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to investigate the application of this 
concept under various settings, to determine technique sensitivity, and to 
evaluate the clinical outcome after 1 year of follow-up.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-one patients were included in a prospective 
multicenter investigation and followed up for 1 year. Cumulative implant 
survival rates were evaluated by life table analysis. In addition, clinical 
comparisons were performed to evaluate implant loss in relation to patient 
characteristics. Questionnaires were used to evaluate the treatment protocols 
and to obtain patients' opinions.
RESULTS: The prosthetic treatment was completed on the same or the following day 
in 76% of the patients. The cumulative implant survival rates for implants and 
prostheses were 91% and 94%, respectively, after 12 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that single-stage surgery and 
immediate loading of implants with prefabricated bridgework in the mandible can 
result in high implant success and significant reduction in treatment time, with 
patient satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2003.tb00195.x
PMID: 14575629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. BMJ. 2003 Oct 25;327(7421):964. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7421.964.

Russian mortality trends for 1991-2001: analysis by cause and region.

Men T(1), Brennan P, Boffetta P, Zaridze D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Carcinogenesis, Cancer Research Centre, Kashirskoye Shosse 24, 
115478 Moscow, Russia.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate trends in Russian mortality for 1991-2001 with 
particular reference to trends since the Russian economic crisis in 1998 and to 
geographical differences within Russia.
DESIGN: Analysis of data obtained from the Russian State statistics committee 
for 1991-2001. All cause mortality was compared between seven federal regions. 
Comparison of cause specific rates was conducted for young (15-34 years) and 
middle aged adults (35-69 years). The number of Russian adults who died before 
age 70 in the period 1992-2001 and whose deaths were attributable to increased 
mortality was calculated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age, sex, and cause specific mortality standardised to 
the world population.
RESULTS: Mortality increased substantially after the economic crisis in 1998, 
with life expectancy falling to 58.9 years among men and 71.8 years among women 
by 2001. Most of these fluctuations were due to changes in mortality from 
vascular disease and violent deaths (mainly suicides, homicides, unintentional 
poisoning, and traffic incidents) among young and middle aged adults. Trends 
were similar in all parts of Russia. An extra 2.5-3 million Russian adults died 
in middle age in the period 1992-2001 than would have been expected based on 
1991 mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Russian mortality was already high in 1991 and has increased 
further in the subsequent decade. Fluctuations in mortality seem to correlate 
strongly with underlying economic and societal factors. On an individual level, 
alcohol consumption is strongly implicated in being at least partially 
responsible for many of these trends.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7421.964
PMCID: PMC259165
PMID: 14576248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. World J Urol. 2003 Nov;21(5):292-305. doi: 10.1007/s00345-003-0366-8. Epub
2003  Oct 24.

Androgen therapy in the aging male.

Lunenfeld B(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 52900 Ramat Gan, Israel. 
blunenf@attglobal.net

The world population is expanding rapidly; at the same time, life expectancy is 
increasing, and fertility rates are decreasing. Due to these facts, it is 
expected that the biggest increases of population growth will occur in the aging 
population. In the aging male, endocrine changes and a decline in endocrine 
function involve tissue responsiveness as well as reduced secretory output from 
peripheral glands and alterations in the central mechanism controlling the 
temporal organization of hormonal release. The latter are likely to be 
responsible for the dampened circadian hormonal and non-hormonal rhythms. These 
are in part responsible for the age-dependent decrease of the peripheral levels 
of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), the thyroid hormones, growth 
hormone (GH), IGF1 and melatonin. These hormonal changes, which develop in most 
men at about the age of 50, are in part responsible for endocrine deficiencies 
of some older men. One of the best-studied endocrine deficiencies is late-onset 
hypogonadism. This is a syndrome characterized by adverse effects on multiple 
organ systems and decreased quality of life, associated with advancing age and 
characterized by signs and symptoms of hypogonadism and a deficiency in serum 
androgen levels with or without a decreased genomic sensitivity to androgens. In 
cases of endocrine deficiencies, traditional endocrinology aims to replace the 
missing hormone or hormones with substitutes. It has been demonstrated that 
interventions such as hormone therapies may favorably influence some of the 
pathological conditions in aging men by preventing the preventable and delaying 
the inevitable. A comprehensive medical, psycho-social and life-style history, a 
physical examination and laboratory testing are essential for the diagnosis and 
management of late-onset hypogonadism. Acute, chronic or inter-current diseases 
must be taken into consideration prior to initiating any hormonal substitution 
therapy. In the era of evidence-based medicine, we have to acknowledge that data 
on testosterone therapy (HT) in the aging male is mostly circumstantial, based 
on experience in the treatment of transitional or chronic hypogonadism in young 
men resulting from disease or experiments of nature. However, over the past 
several years prospective studies on testosterone therapy in the aging male were 
performed and shown to be beneficial for certain older men in preventing or 
delaying some aspects of aging. Recommendations for algorithms for the diagnosis 
of late-onset hypogonadism and monitoring therapy for safety and efficacy are 
the subject of this paper.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-003-0366-8
PMID: 14576959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Metabolism. 2003 Oct;52(10 Suppl 2):5-9. doi: 10.1016/s0026-0495(03)00294-4.

Genes of aging.

Hamet P(1), Tremblay J.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche, CHUM-Hôtel-Dieu, Université Montréal, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.

According to developmental genetics theories, aging is a genetically programmed 
and controlled continuum of development and maturation. Being dynamic and 
malleable processes, development and aging are controlled not only by genes but 
also by environmental and epigenetic influences that predominate in the second 
half of life. Genetic mutations affect many phenotypes in flies, worms, rodents, 
and humans which share several diseases or their equivalents, including cancer, 
neurodegeneration, and infectious disorders as well as their susceptibility to 
them. Life span and stress resistance are closely linked. Oxidative stress 
actually constitutes a defined hypothesis of aging in that macromolecule 
oxidative damage accumulates with age and tends to be associated with life 
expectancy. DNA methylation, a force in the regulation of gene expression, is 
also one of the biomarkers of genetic damage. The mitotic clock of aging is 
marked, if not guided, by telomeres, essential genetic elements stabilizing 
natural chromosomic ends. The dream of humans to live longer, healthy lives is 
being tested by attempts to modify longevity in animal models, frequently by 
dietary manipulation. The quest continues to understand the mechanisms of 
healthy aging, one of the most compelling areas of research in the 21st century.

DOI: 10.1016/s0026-0495(03)00294-4
PMID: 14577056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Dev World Bioeth. 2003 May;3(1):49-76. doi: 10.1111/1471-8847.00059.

Through a glass, darkly: data and uncertainty in the AIDS debate.

Whiteside A(1), Barnett T, George G, Van Niekerk AA.

Author information:
(1)907 Shepstone Building, King George V Avenue, University of Natal, Durban 
4041, South Africa. whitesid@nu.ac.za

The HIV/AIDS epidemic is the greatest threat to development in much of Africa. 
It is already the main cause of death in many countries, especially those in 
Southern Africa. However there is an absence of solid data on the scale and 
scope of the disease and how it is evolving. In this article we discuss the data 
on the epidemic--where it comes from and how it is presented. We note the 
limitations of the use of antenatal clinic surveys--which provide the bulk of 
our information. We then turn to the evidence of impact. The paper shows that 
the long incubation period between infection and illness means that it takes 
time for HIV infections to turn into AIDS cases, and AIDS cases to translate 
into deaths with all the consequences of orphaning, poverty and changing 
population structures. Furthermore it means that once the HIV prevalence has 
peaked, AIDS impact will take years to work through--this epidemic is a 
'long-wave' event. The paper is premised on the view that HIV causes AIDS and 
AIDS causes death. It notes that insufficient and/or unreliable data have 
allowed leaderships to deny the scope and scale of the problem and that this is 
unacceptable. However it is incumbent on all to accept the moral responsibility 
for and the moral consequences of their work, and this includes those who 
gather, interpret and use the data.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-8847.00059
PMID: 14577452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2003 Oct 7;1:73. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-1-73.

Estrogen, progesterone and epithelial ovarian cancer.

Ho SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departmens of Surgery, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, 
Massachusetts, USA. Shuk-mei.Ho@umassmed.edu

Ovarian carcinoma (OCa) continues to be the leading cause of death due to 
gynecologic malignancies and the vast majority of OCa is derived from the 
ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) and its cystic derivatives. Epidemiological 
evidence strongly suggests that steroid hormones, primarily estrogens and 
progesterone, are implicated in ovarian carcinogenesis. However, it has proved 
difficult to fully understand their mechanisms of action on the tumorigenic 
process. New convincing data have indicated that estrogens favor neoplastic 
transformation of the OSE while progesterone offers protection against OCa 
development. Specifically, estrogens, particularly those present in ovulatory 
follicles, are both genotoxic and mitogenic to OSE cells. In contrast, 
pregnancy-equivalent levels progesterone are highly effective as apoptosis 
inducers for OSE and OCa cells. In this regard, high-dose progestin may exert an 
exfoliation effect and rid an aged OSE of pre-malignant cells. A limited number 
of clinical studies has demonstrated efficacies of antiestrogens, aromatase 
inhibitors, and progestins alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs 
in the treatment of OCa. As a result of increased life expectancy in most 
countries, the number of women taking hormone replacement therapies (HRT) 
continues to grow. Thus, knowledge of the mechanism of action of steroid 
hormones on the OSE and OCa is of paramount significance to HRT risk assessment 
and to the development of novel therapies for the prevention and treatment of 
OCa.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-1-73
PMCID: PMC239900
PMID: 14577831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Hum Gene Ther. 2003 Oct 10;14(15):1473-87. doi: 10.1089/104303403769211682.

Telomerase alone extends the replicative life span of human skeletal muscle 
cells without compromising genomic stability.

Wootton M(1), Steeghs K, Watt D, Munro J, Gordon K, Ireland H, Morrison V, Behan 
W, Parkinson EK.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Pathology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G11 6NT, UK.

Continuous cycles of muscle fiber necrosis and regeneration are characteristic 
of the muscular dystrophies, and in some cases this leads to premature 
replicative senescence of myoblasts in vitro. The molecular mechanism of 
senescence in human myoblasts is poorly understood but there is evidence to 
suggest that telomeric attrition may be one of the ways by which this is 
achieved. We report here, for the first time, the extension of normal human 
skeletal muscle cell replicative life span by the reconstitution of telomerase 
activity. The telomerase-expressing cells show no features of transformation in 
vitro and have stable genomes with diploid karyotypes, do not express 
exceptionally high levels of c-myc and have wild-type, unmethylated CDKN2A 
genes. In vivo, they regenerate to repair muscle injury in immunosuppressed 
RAG-1 mice. This work suggests that telomerase expression to repair short 
telomeres may aid the expansion of diploid human muscle cells and consequently 
attempts at gene therapy for muscle diseases.

DOI: 10.1089/104303403769211682
PMID: 14577927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2003;62:8-11. doi: 10.1080/14034950310015040.

Patterns of mortality in Bavi, Vietnam, 1999-2001.

Byass P(1); FilaBavi Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Umeå International School of Public Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
peterbyass@aol.com

AIMS: Demographic data including detailed mortality patterns for Vietnam are 
relatively sparse, mainly coming from national census data. This paper describes 
detailed mortality findings from a sample drawn from the population of one 
district of northern Vietnam, over the three-year period 1999-2001.
METHODS: These data were based on quarterly household visits to collect data on 
vital events, covering 142,318 person-years of observation over a three-year 
period.
RESULTS: Crude mortality was 5.1 per 1,000 person-years (4.7 for females and 5.6 
for males). Infant mortality was 21.6 per 1,000 live births and crude birth rate 
was 14.7 per 1,000. Life expectancy at birth was 75.2 years (78.8 year for 
females and 71.1 for males). Residents of mountainous and highland areas 
experienced lower mortality than riverside and island dwellers.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are discussed in the light of two major demographic 
factors: the legacy of the Vietnam War and, more recently, the effect of 
Vietnam's two-child policy. Although these mortality estimates seem low, there 
is good reason to believe that they accurately reflect the current state of this 
population. Vietnam as a whole enjoys low mortality in relation to its 
socioeconomic status compared with neighbouring countries.

DOI: 10.1080/14034950310015040
PMID: 14578074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2003;62:66-9. doi: 10.1080/14034950310015130.

The role of health economics in Vietnam: a tentative research agenda.

Lindholm L(1), Thanh NX.

Author information:
(1)Umeå International School of Public Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
lars.lindholm@epiph.umn.se

Little health economics research has been done in developing countries, 
reflecting the fact that 10% of the world's health research is devoted to 90% of 
the world's health problems. Healthcare in developing countries relies more on 
market mechanisms than healthcare in developed countries. From a health 
economist's point of view, there are reasons to suspect that healthcare systems 
in many developing countries are both inefficient and inequitable. The public 
healthcare model in Europe offers better solutions to the problems in developing 
countries than the private health care model in the USA. In this article aspects 
of the health economics situation in Vietnam are discussed and some important 
health economics research questions identified.

DOI: 10.1080/14034950310015130
PMID: 14578076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2003 Oct;36(5):355-9. doi: 10.1007/s00391-003-0167-0.

[Palliative care for patients with advanced dementia: Evidence-based practice 
replaced by values-based practice].

[Article in German]

Kunz R(1).

Author information:
(1)Pflegezentrum Spital Limmattal, Urdorferstr. 100, 8952 Schlieren, 
Switzerland. roland.kunz@spital-limmattal.ch

For the treatment of patients with advanced dementia, we could not find any 
evidence based guidelines to help in decision making. Individual values and 
expected quality of life must be the leading goals of any intervention. Symptom 
control and relieving suffering are core values of palliative care, but the 
recognition of discomfort needs qualified assessment skills. Pain assessment 
with common tools like the VAS fails in patients with cognitive impairment and 
inability to communicate; instruments like Doloplus and ECPA can be helpful to 
assess behavioral changes as expression of pain. The treatment of acute and 
chronic pain in advanced dementia is still not sufficient and needs improvement. 
Oral feeding in advanced dementia becomes more and more difficult. No randomized 
controlled study has found evidence that tube feeding will reduce the risk of 
aspiration or prolong life expectancy. Eating may be the only meaningful 
activity that remains for the patient; artificial feeding cannot serve the same 
function. All final complications, like pneumonia, call for a decision making 
process. Those who care for and care about these patients must make decisions. 
The feelings of the family have to be considered, but the probable will of the 
patient, his dignity and quality of life must not be overridden.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-003-0167-0
PMID: 14579062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Ther Umsch. 2003 Sep;60(9):563-8. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.60.9.563.

[Carotid stenosis: diagnosis, patient selection, therapy].

[Article in German]

Barth A(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Klinik, Universität Bern, Inselspital, Bern. 
alain.barth@insel.ch

Atheromatosis frequently develops in the carotid bifurcation, leading to 
significant stenoses of the internal carotid artery. The associated risk of 
stroke reaches 20-25% during the first three years for a high-grade symptomatic 
stenosis and 2-3% per year for a high-grade asymptomatic stenosis. The diagnosis 
of carotid stenosis is made after occurrence of a cerebral ischemic event or 
during an angiologic examination, mainly using Doppler/Duplex-sonography. 
Ultrasonography also enables an accurate determination of the grade of stenosis 
and accordingly the risk of stroke. Non-invasive MR- or CT-angiography is 
presently preferred to digital subtraction angiography to confirm the 
sonographic findings and prepare for an intervention. The intervention has to be 
decided individually for each patient. It is mandatory that the estimated risks 
of operation + best medical therapy be significantly lower than the risks of 
medical therapy alone; otherwise, the benefit of the intervention is lost for 
the patient. Only the mortality and major morbidity are taken into consideration 
to estimate the risks of an intervention. Local and systemic complications are 
transitory and do not influence the final outcome. A high-grade symptomatic 
