stenosis (70-99%) should be operated upon whenever possible. A middle-grade 
symptomatic stenosis (50-69%) is treated operatively only if the associated risk 
of stroke is estimated to be high. A high-grade asymptomatic stenosis is 
operated upon only if the estimated perioperative risks are very low (< 3%). A 
middle-grade asymptomatic stenosis as well as low-grade stenoses (< 50%) should 
not be operated, but treated with the best medical therapy available. Carotid 
endarterectomy is established as method of first choice to treat a carotid 
artery stenosis. A major complication rate as low as 1% can be expected in 
experienced centres. The long-term results of carotid endarterectomy are well 
documented and the incidence of restenosis is very low. Endovascular angioplasty 
with stenting is increasingly performed as an alternative to the open operation. 
Presently, the scientific evidence is still lacking to recommend this method as 
primary therapy; however, progress in the field is constant and we expect new 
technical improvements which should increase the safety and efficacy of the 
procedure in the near future.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.60.9.563
PMID: 14579625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 2003 Oct;104(10):721-9.

[Surgical treatment of colorectal liver metastasis].

[Article in Japanese]

Minagawa M(1), Makuuchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Department of Artificial 
Organ and Transplantation, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The aim of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the long-term results of 
our approach, which consists of surgically treating every case in which radical 
resection of all metastatic disease was technically feasible. The indications 
for surgical resection for liver metastases from colorectal cancer remain 
controversial. Several clinical risk factors have been reported to influence 
survival. Between 1980 and 2001, 304 patients underwent curative hepatic 
resection for metastatic colorectal cancer at our institution. Survival rates 
and disease-free survival as a function of clinical and pathological 
determinants were examined retrospectively. The overall 3-, 5, 10-, and 20-year 
survival rates were 51%, 36%, 26%, and 25%, respectively. The stage of the 
primary tumor, lymph node metastasis, multiple nodules, a high preoperative CEA 
level and a short interval between treatment of the primary and metastatic 
tumors were significantly associated with a poor prognosis. Patients with 4 or 
more metastases had almost the same survival rate as those with 2 or 3 nodules. 
Extrahepatic metastases or invasion at hepatectomy did not worsen the survival 
rate if curatively resected. These results confirm that surgical resection is 
useful for treating liver metastases from colorectal cancer. While multiple 
metastases significantly impair patient prognosis, the life expectancy of 
patients with 4 or more nodules makes their resection mandatory.

PMID: 14579759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2003 Sep-Oct;18(5):729-38.

Preliminary 3-dimensional surface texture measurement and early loading results 
with a microtextured implant surface.

Mazor Z(1), Cohen DK.

Author information:
(1)Michigan Metrology, Livonia, Michigan, USA. zivmazor@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: This investigation was conducted to obtain preliminary roughness data 
on a microtextured implant surface and to determine its ability to sustain a 
1-stage surgical procedure and early full occlusal loading of single-tooth 
restorations in humans.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three-dimensional (3D) vertical scanning interferometry 
was conducted on samples of the test surface (MTX) and 2 control surfaces 
(Osseotite and sandblasted/acid-etched [SLA]). Test implants were also placed in 
vivo, restored with fully occluding single-tooth restorations (n = 27) after 2 
months of nonsubmerged healing, and clinically monitored for 48 months of 
follow-up.
RESULTS: Microtexture was relatively uniform on the test surface and more random 
and irregular on the control surfaces. MTX and Osseotite were similar in some 
roughness parameters, but the MTX surface had a greater number of micropits that 
were spaced closer together (Stylus Y lambda q) and with higher slope values 
(Stylus Y delta q). Cumulative life table results were 100% for all MTX implants 
placed in maxillary and mandibular jaw locations, and no discernible marginal 
bone changes were observed. Overall implant success was 100% after 4 years of 
clinical functioning.
DISCUSSION: The findings of this study appear promising but should be considered 
preliminary, because of the limitations in the number of locations measured on 
each product sample and the small number of implants clinically studied.
CONCLUSION: Within the scope of the present study, MTX implants exhibited a 
uniform micropitted surface, as well as 100% survival and 100% clinical success 
after nonsubmerged placement, early loading with single-tooth restorations at 2 
months, and 48 months of clinical functioning. (More than 50 references.)

PMID: 14579962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Asthma. 2003 Sep;40(6):691-9. doi: 10.1081/jas-120023491.

Asthma severity, psychiatric morbidity, and quality of life: correlation with 
inhaled corticosteroid dose.

Bonala SB(1), Pina D, Silverman BA, Amara S, Bassett CW, Schneider AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy and Immunology, The Long Island College Hospital, 
Brooklyn, New York 11201, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Psychiatric phenomena in asthma has been debated for some time. 
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are a significant part of treatment. We attempted 
to quantify the prevalence of psychiatric morbidity relative to asthma severity, 
quality of life (QOL), and ICS dose.
DATA SOURCES: Fifty asthmatic patients (18 > or = X < or =75 years) on ICS, 
attending an urban clinic had asthma and ICS dose stratified by symptom severity 
and preparation potency. Peak flow and forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
(FEV1) were measured. Patients completed general QOL and disease-specific QOL 
questionnaires, along with psychiatric rating scales.
RESULTS: Patients (n = 50) clustered in the 40-59 year range (n = 27, 54%) and 
were predominantly female (n = 44, 88%) Hispanics (n = 30, 60%), with 
mild-moderate asthma (n = 18, 36%) and on low-dose ICS (n = 22, 44%). FEV1 
ranged from 32 to 123 (mean 76.98, SE 3.01). Peak flow ranged from 210 to 590 
(mean 407.83, SE 13.24). Prevalence of anxiety and depressive symptoms were 
higher than expected (Kendall's tau-c, n = 50, P < .01). Independently, high ICS 
dose and asthma severity correlated directly with all measures of psychiatric 
morbidity (Pearson's r0.781, P < .01). High ICS dose correlated inversely with 
SF-36 Mental Component Scale (Pearson's r0.681, P < .01) and directly with FEV1 
and peak flow when age/sex adjusted (Spearman's rho: 0.660, P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Psychiatric morbidity is more prevalent in this population and 
impacts negatively on QOL. Use of high-dose ICS benefited pulmonary function and 
"physical" QOL, yet may have negatively affected patients' mental well-being. 
Longitudinal follow-up, extension of sample size, and better study control would 
allow closer approximation of possible negative associations with ICS.

DOI: 10.1081/jas-120023491
PMID: 14580001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Asthma. 2003 Sep;40(6):701-8. doi: 10.1081/jas-120023492.

A survey on awareness and utilization of new asthma management guidelines in 
Japan.

Makino S(1), Furusho K, Ohta K, Mukoyama T.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Allergic Disease Research Institute, Kihara Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

The present questionnaire survey, designed to interview Japanese internists and 
pediatricians who were specialists or nonspecialists in allergy or asthma, was 
conducted to determine the acceptance of "Asthma Prevention and Management 
Guidelines 1998" 1 year after release. The surveyor visited each physician and 
used the questionnaire form at the interview. Replies were obtained from a total 
of 5,963 physicians. The percentage of physicians who were aware of the 
guidelines was 96% among specialists and 68% among nonspecialists. Among the 
internists who were aware of the guidelines, the percentage of physicians giving 
a reply of "I refer to them often" or "I refer to them" in the actual diagnosis 
and management of asthma was 95% among specialists and 92% among nonspecialists. 
Therefore, reference was very high. Except for nonspecialists among 
pediatricians, not less than 60% of physicians expected that propagation of the 
present guidelines would allow a further decrease in asthma death and further 
improvement of patient's quality of life. The present survey revealed an 
increase in guideline awareness over the last several years, which was 
especially marked in nonspecialists. Furthermore, high reference and high 
expectancy also verified that physicians recognize the contents of the present 
guidelines as appropriate.

DOI: 10.1081/jas-120023492
PMID: 14580002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2003 Oct;5(5):557-61. doi:
10.1089/152308603770310202.

The free radical theory of aging.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Omaha, NE 
68198-4635, USA.

Aging is the accumulation of changes that increase the risk of death. Aging 
changes can be attributed to development, genetic defects, the environment, 
disease, and an inborn process: the aging process. The latter is the major risk 
factor for disease and death after age 28 in the developed countries. In these 
countries, average life expectancies at birth (ALE-B) now range from 76 to 79 
years, 6-9 years less than the limit of approximately 85 years imposed by aging. 
Aging changes may be caused by free radical reactions. The extensive studies 
based on this possibility hold promise that the ALE-B can be extended to >85 
years and the maximum life span increased.

DOI: 10.1089/152308603770310202
PMID: 14580310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Oct;38(10):1041-9. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00169-4.

Insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway driving aging and cancer as a target for 
pharmacological intervention.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Carcinogenesis and Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research 
Institute of Oncology, Pesochny-2, St Petersburg 197758, Russian Federation. 
aging@mail.ru

Studies in mammals have led to the suggestion that hyperglycemia and 
hyperinsulinemia are important factors both in aging and in the development of 
cancer. Insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling molecules that 
have been linked to longevity include DAF-2 and InR and their homologues in 
mammals, and inactivation of the corresponding genes followed by the increase in 
life span in nematodes, fruit flies and mice. It is possible that the 
life-prolonging effect of calorie restriction is due to decreasing IGF-1 levels. 
A search of pharmacological modulators of insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway 
mimetic effects of life span extending mutations or calorie restriction could be 
a perspective direction in regulation of longevity. Some old and new 
observations suggest that antidiabetic biguanides could be promising candidates 
for both the life span extension and the prevention of cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(03)00169-4
PMID: 14580857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Oct;38(10):1077-85. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.07.001.

Dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate as a biomarker of senescence in male non-human 
primates.

Muehlenbein MP(1), Campbell BC, Richards RJ, Svec F, Phillippi-Falkenstein KM, 
Murchison MA, Myers L.

Author information:
(1)Reproductive Ecology Laboratory, Department of Anthropology, Yale University, 
51 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, CT 06520-8277, USA. michael.m@snet.net

Numerous studies have suggested important and varying roles for 
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S) in 
primate physiological functions. Despite these numerous claims, specific actions 
and significance of DHEA and DHEA-S are still equivocal. A decline of these 
hormones in adult humans may have functional significance, yet there is no clear 
relationship between functional impairments of aging and the decline in DHEA or 
DHEA-S levels. This current study attempts to address the natural history of 
adrenal hormones by presenting non-human primate evidence of the endocrinology 
of aging; the age-related patterns of adrenal hormone decline in three species 
of the subfamily Cercopithecinae, Macaca mulatta, Macaca nemestrina, and Papio 
cynocephalus are compared. It is concluded that DHEA-S and cortisol represent 
lineage specific markers of senescence among primates and that parallel 
age-related patterns of DHEA-S and cortisol likely reflect lineage specific 
effects, or rather, phylogenetic similarities of endocrine senescence. The use 
of relative adrenal hormone levels to approximate species' life expectancies is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.07.001
PMID: 14580861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Exp Gerontol. 2003 Oct;38(10):1217-26. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.08.005.

Pennington scientific symposium on mechanisms and retardation of aging.

Atwood CS(1), Barzilai N, Bowen RL, Brown-Borg HM, Jarrard DF, Fu VX, Heilbronn 
LK, Ingram DK, Ravussin E, Schwartz RS, Weindruch R.

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatrics and Gerontology, University of Wisconsin Medical 
School, Madison, WI, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2003.08.005
PMID: 14580876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Ann Oncol. 2003 Nov;14(11):1629-33. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdg447.

A trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis of letrozole followed by tamoxifen 
versus tamoxifen followed by letrozole for postmenopausal advanced breast 
cancer.

Karnon J(1), Johnston SR, Jones T, Glendenning A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. j.karnon@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Third-generation aromatase inhibitors are being considered as an 
alternative to tamoxifen as first-line therapy for advanced breast cancer. These 
newer therapies are more expensive, and will gain greater acceptance if they can 
demonstrate cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Life table analyses are used to compare the costs and benefits [life 
years gained and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained] of treating 
postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer with first-line letrozole (with 
the option of second-line tamoxifen) compared with first-line tamoxifen (with 
the option of second-line letrozole). Patient-level data from a large clinical 
trial describes the effectiveness of the therapy options, clinicians estimate 
resource usage and utility values are obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: The mean cost of providing first- and second-line hormonal therapy is 
pound 4765 if letrozole is the first-line therapy and pound 3418 if tamoxifen is 
provided first (a difference of pound 1347). However, patients receiving 
letrozole as first-line therapy gain an additional 0.228 life years, or 0.158 
QALYs. The cost-effectiveness analysis found that first-line hormonal therapy 
with letrozole gains additional life years at a cost of pound 5917, whilst the 
cost per additional QALY gained is pound 8514.
CONCLUSION: The strategy of letrozole as first-line hormonal therapy not only 
provides an opportunity for extending and improving patient's quality of life, 
but also is highly cost-effective compared with other generally accepted medical 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdg447
PMID: 14581270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Circulation. 2003 Nov 11;108(19):2342-8. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000097110.55312.BF. Epub 2003 Oct 27.

Adverse prognosis of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who have 
epicardial coronary artery disease.

Sorajja P(1), Ommen SR, Nishimura RA, Gersh BJ, Berger PB, Tajik AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic and 
Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minn 55905, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2003 Nov 11;108(19):e9049-50.

BACKGROUND: Adult patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) may develop 
concomitant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD). There is a paucity of 
data on the clinical outcomes of HCM patients who have CAD.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We examined the outcome of 433 adult patients with HCM 
according to the presence and severity of CAD. All patients were aged > or =21 
years, had a left ventricular ejection fraction of > or =50%, and were without a 
history of prior surgical revascularization (mean age, 63 years; 212 men). 
Compared with HCM patients with mild-to-moderate or no CAD, those with severe 
CAD demonstrated markedly reduced survival. Ten-year overall survival was 46.1%, 
70.5%, and 77.1% for patients with severe, mild-to-moderate, and no CAD, 
respectively (unadjusted P=0.0001; adjusted P=0.0006). For the end point of 
cardiac death, this survival was 62.3%, 81.0%, and 80.9% (unadjusted P=0.009; 
adjusted P=0.004). For the end point of sudden cardiac death, this survival was 
77.4%, 93.2%, and 90.3% (unadjusted P=0.01; adjusted P=0.01). The presence of 
severe CAD also was highly predictive of these events (risk ratio for respective 
event: 2.31, 2.15, and 2.77) in multivariate models that additionally identified 
age, prior stroke, hyperlipidemia, and atrial fibrillation as significant 
covariates.
CONCLUSIONS: Among adult patients with HCM who undergo coronary angiography, 
those who have concomitant severe CAD are at increased risk of death. This risk 
far exceeds historical death rates of CAD patients with normal left ventricular 
function.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000097110.55312.BF
PMID: 14581405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Am Nat. 2003 Oct;162(4):474-88. doi: 10.1086/376889. Epub 2003 Oct 16.

Delayed selfing and resource reallocations in relation to mate availability in 
the freshwater snail Physa acuta.

Tsitrone A(1), Jarne P, David P.

Author information:
(1)Unité Mixte de Recherche, Diversité et Gènome des Plantes Cultivées, Institut 
National de la Recherche Agronomique, Domaine de Melgueil, F34130 Mauguio, 
France. tsitrone@ensam.inra.fr

We study the influence of mate availability on the mating behavior of the 
self-fertile, preferentially outcrossing freshwater snail Physa acuta. Previous 
optimization theory indicated that mating system interacts with life-history 
traits to influence the age at first reproduction, providing three testable 
predictions. First, isolated individuals should reproduce later than individuals 
with available mates in the expectancy of finding a partner and avoiding the 
cost of inbreeding. Second, resource reallocation to future fecundity is needed 
for such reproductive delays to evolve. Third, the reproductive delay can be 
optimized with respect to life-history traits (e.g., survival, growth) and the 
mating system (inbreeding depression). Our results largely validate these 
predictions. First, reproduction is significantly delayed in isolated 
individuals ("selfers") as compared with individuals frequently exposed to mates 
("outcrossers"). Second, delayed reproduction is associated with reallocation to 
future growth, survival, and fecundity, although fecundity is also affected by 
the mating system (selfing vs. outcrossing). Third, the reproductive delay found 
(approximately 2 wk) is consistent with quantitative predictions from 
optimization models. The delay is largely heritable, which might be partly 
explained by among-family differences in the amount of inbreeding depression 
(mating system) but not growth or survival.

DOI: 10.1086/376889
PMID: 14582009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Nov;42(5):936-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ajkd.2003.07.015.

Progression of renal insufficiency in type 2 diabetes with and without 
microalbuminuria: results of the Heart Outcomes and Prevention Evaluation (HOPE) 
randomized study.

Mann JF(1), Gerstein HC, Yi QL, Franke J, Lonn EM, Hoogwerf BJ, Rashkow A, Yusuf 
S; HOPE Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. 
johannes.mann@kms.mhn.de

BACKGROUND: In patients with type 2 diabetes with overt nephropathy, the risk 
for progressive renal failure is high. This risk is less well established for 
those with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria or normalbuminuria. We studied 
changes in serum creatinine levels during 3.5 to 5.5 years in a large cohort of 
people with diabetes at high cardiovascular risk with microalbuminuria or 
normalbuminuria.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of serum creatinine levels at baseline and 
yearly thereafter was performed in the Microalbuminuria and Renal Outcomes in 
the Heart Outcomes and Prevention Evaluation study comparing ramipril's effects 
with placebo during 4.5 years in 3,577 participants with diabetes, including 
1,139 participants with microalbuminuria and 333 participants with renal 
insufficiency. Participants with dipstick-positive proteinuria (>1+) or serum 
creatinine levels greater than 2.3 mg/dL (200 micromol/L) were excluded.
RESULTS: Serum creatinine levels did not increase significantly during the study 
if all participants with diabetes are considered or for subgroups with 
microalbuminuria and/or renal insufficiency at baseline. However, slopes of 
serum creatinine over time showed a significant trend for increasing values. 
There were no differences between the placebo and ramipril-treated groups. A 
serum creatinine level of 1.4 mg/dL (125 micromol/L) or greater newly developed 
in 474 of 3,238 people (243 patients, placebo; 231 patients, ramipril; P = 
0.5033). A doubling of baseline serum creatinine level or end-stage renal 
disease developed in 8 of 333 participants with renal insufficiency at baseline.
CONCLUSION: In people with type 2 diabetes, but without overt nephropathy, who 
are at high risk for cardiovascular disease, progression of renal insufficiency 
is slow on the basis of changes in creatinine levels. On the basis of reaching 
threshold levels of renal function, progression rates are clinically meaningful, 
especially considering population life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajkd.2003.07.015
PMID: 14582037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Neural Transm Suppl. 2003;(66):97-111. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-0541-2_6.

Homogenizing alcoholism treatment across Europe.

Poldrugo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, University of Trieste, School of Medicine, 
Italy. polydrug@units.it

Alcohol treatment ideologies and goals vary in different countries of Europe and 
have been influenced by cultures and drinking patterns. From the traditional 
high-consumption wine countries of Southern Europe to the spirit drinking North 
European countries. However, due to the natural course of alcoholism, long-term 
alcohol dependent patients share common features independent from initial 
drinking patterns and cultural influences. This makes populations' 
characteristics and the result of treatment comparable within Europe, even 
though treatment approaches and selection of patients vary in different 
countries. Clinical trials using common measures for outcome of intervention 
have been performed in the last ten years in several countries of Europe. 
Outcome has been measured not only with the traditional definition of abstinence 
(or other drinking end-points), but also in terms of the subjective impact of 
disease and treatments on patients' lives. The discovery that different types of 
supportive therapies (alone or in combination with medications) do have positive 
influences on the progress of the alcoholic disease, improving the patients' 
quality of life (QoL) in all countries of Europe, shed a light of optimism on 
what, until recently, was considered an untreatable disease.
SUMMARY: From the age when alcohol treatment outcomes were incorrectly measured 
and barely comparable because of different populations (especially from the 
USA), scarce description of intervention and goals of treatment, a great 
progress has been reached, in recent years, with new methodologies applied in 
Europe in clinical trials dealing with populations of alcoholics. Therapies do 
work in improving their well-being status and life expectancy in all countries 
of Europe.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-0541-2_6
PMID: 14582805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Int J Health Serv. 2003;33(3):419-94. doi: 10.2190/R7GE-8DWK-YY6C-183U.

The importance of the political and the social in explaining mortality 
differentials among the countries of the OECD, 1950-1998.

Navarro V(1), Borrell C, Benach J, Muntaner C, Quiroga A, Rodríguez-Sanz M, 
Vergés N, Gumá J, Pasarín MI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. vnavarro@jhsph.edu

This article analyzes (within the conceptual frame defined in the previous 
article) the impact of political variables such as time of government by 
political parties (social democratic, Christian democratic or conservative, 
liberal, and ex-dictatorial that have governed the OECD countries during the 
1950-1998 period) and their electoral support on (1) redistributional policies 
in the labor market and in the welfare state; (2) the income inequalities 
measured by Theil and Gini indexes; and (3) health indicators, such as infant 
mortality and life expectancy. This analysis is carried out statistically by a 
bivariate and a multivariate analysis (a pooled cross-sectional study). Both 
analyses show that political variables play an important role in defining how 
public and social policies determine the levels of inequalities and affect the 
level of infant mortality. In general, political parties more committed to 
redistributional policies, such as social democratic parties, are the most 
successful in reducing inequalities and improving infant mortality. Less 
evidence exists, however, on effects on life expectancy. The article also 
quantifies statistically the relationship between the political and the policy 
variables and between these variables and the dependent variables--that is, the 
health indicators.

DOI: 10.2190/R7GE-8DWK-YY6C-183U
PMID: 14582869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Int J Health Serv. 2003;33(3):495-522. doi: 10.2190/578T-JUWB-18V6-A59E.

Do social policies and political context matter for health in the United 
Kingdom?

Doran T(1), Whitehead M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Liverpool, United Kingdom. 
timdoran@liverpool.ac.uk

This U.K. case study combines lessons from historical assessments with new 
empirical analyses of trends over the last decade to inform an appraisal of the 
impact of social actions on health. The empirical analyses examine life 
expectancy in the 354 local government councils in England by first identifying 
those that have better or worse health than expected fromtheir socioeconomic 
profile, and then selecting paired sets of "overachievers" and "underachievers" 
for more in-depth analysis. The findings taken as a whole provide evidence that 
social policies and political context do indeed matter for health. The 
historical material from the first industrial revolution, in particular, 
provides some of the most compelling evidence for this proposition. The 
empirical analyses over the last decade found a very powerful inverse 
association: the more deprived the local council, the lower the life expectancy 
of the population within that locality. However, even for the same level of 
deprivation and socioeconomic characteristics, some councils were doing much 
better than others in terms of health: for example, more than three years 
difference in life expectancy for carefully matched "urban fringe" councils. The 
article then examines the councils' political makeup and hence their likely 
policy perspective.

DOI: 10.2190/578T-JUWB-18V6-A59E
PMID: 14582870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2003 Nov;24(5):731-40. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(03)00496-2.

Cryoablation of the left posterior atrial wall: 95 patients and 3 years of mean 
follow-up.

Manasse E(1), Gaita F, Ghiselli S, Barbone A, Garberoglio L, Citterio E, Ornaghi 
D, Gallotti R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Via Manzoni 56, 
Rozzano, Milan, Italy. ericmana03@yahoo.it

OBJECTIVE: Endocardial ablation of the left atrial posterior wall has been used 
to treat atrial fibrillation. Aim of the study was to evaluate its efficacy 
looking for the ablation pattern allowing a fast execution with limited 
interference on atrial contractility. Moreover a statistical analysis to 
identify predictors of long-term sinus rhythm recovery has been provided.
METHODS: From April 1998 to May 2002, 95 patients with permanent (mean duration 
65 months) or persistent (33%) atrial fibrillation have undergone three 
different ablation patterns, only 1 patient being affected by lone atrial 
fibrillation. Mean antero-posterior left atrial diameter was 76.2 mm. The 
prospective study collected information regarding variables related to patients' 
demographics, disease's characteristics and type of surgical ablation employed. 
Dependent variables were presence of sinus rhythm either at discharge and at 6 
months. A logistic regression analysis was used to estimate the association 
between the collected variables and sinus rhythm restoration.
RESULTS: In-hospital and late mortality rate were 3.2 and 6.3% respectively. At 
discharge 67 patients (72.8%) were in sinus rhythm while at a mean follow-up of 
3 years, 81.4% of 86 surviving patients are in sinus rhythm. Major adverse 
events rate including cardiac reoperation, pace-maker implantation and 
cerebrovascular accident were 8.5, 6.3 and 4.2%, respectively. Pre-operative 
atrial fibrillation duration, left atrial dimension and type of mitral disease 
did not show any correlation with long term success while the lesion pattern and 
the rhythm at discharge were significant predictive factors. Survival is 
significantly higher in patients who converted to sinus rhythm at discharge 
(P=0.014) with respect to those who remained in atrial fibrillation.
CONCLUSIONS: Permanent and persistent atrial fibrillation associated to a major 
cardiac disease can be safely treated with a linear ablation of the left atrial 
posterior wall. Satisfactory results in terms of rhythm restoration may be 
achieved regardless of the duration of the arrhythmia and its effects on atrial 
diameter. Any effort should be prompted to discharge patients in sinus rhythm. 
Life expectancy is longer if sinus rhythm is restored.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(03)00496-2
PMID: 14583306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Vnitr Lek. 2003 Sep;49(9):734-9.

[Biventricular cardiac pacing].

[Article in Czech]

Kautzner J(1), Riedlbauchová L.

Author information:
(1)Klinika kardiologie Institutu klinické a experimentální medicíny, Praha.

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a very frequent condition. Its frequency 
increases with prolongation of median life expectancy and due to improvements in 
medical care. However, medical treatment does not allow adequate control of 
symptoms in many cases. Therefore, various nonpharmacological approaches are 
being developed. The so-called biventricular pacing is one of them. Its main 
goal is to restore impaired mechanical cardiac synchrony that is present in 
patients with prolonged QRS duration due to inter- or intraventricular 
conduction abnormality. At present, biventricular pacing can be achieved through 
positioning of a special pacing lead into a branch of the coronary sinus on the 
surface of the left ventricle and implanting the other lead into the right 
ventricular cavity, and the third lead into right atrial appendage. Clinical 
trials and experience from many centres have documented improvements in clinical 
status in the vast majority of patients. An improvement in functional 
classification (NYHA) by at least one class, prolongation of the six minute walk 
distance by 20-40%, increase the maximal oxygen uptake by 10-40% a beneficial 
effect on quality of life can be expected. Preliminary results of the COMPANION 
trial have suggested that cardiac resynchronization therapy is associated with 
prognostic effect, especially in conjunction with implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator.

PMID: 14584425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Health News. 2003 Sep;9(9):6.

Lower death rates among walkers with diabetes.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 14584470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2000 Feb 1;2(1):1-17. doi: 10.1017/S1462399400001484.

Substrate deprivation: a new therapeutic approach for the glycosphingolipid 
lysosomal storage diseases.

Platt FM(1), Butters TD.

Author information:
(1)Glycobiology Institute, Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, 
South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3QU, UK. fran@glycob.ox.ac.uk

The glycosphingolipid (GSL) lysosomal storage diseases are a family of human 
metabolic diseases that, in their severest forms, cause death in early infancy, 
as a result of progressive neurodegeneration. They are caused by mutations in 
the genes encoding the glycohydrolases or the activator proteins that catabolise 
GSLs within lysosomes. In these diseases the GSL substrate of the defective 
enzyme accumulates in the lysosome, where it is stored and leads to cellular 
dysfunction and disease. The therapeutic options for treating these diseases are 
relatively limited; in fact, there are currently no available therapies for most 
of these disorders. The problem is further compounded by difficulties in 
delivering therapeutic agents to the central nervous system, which is where the 
pathology is frequently manifested. To date, research effort has mainly focused 
on strategies for augmenting enzyme concentrations to compensate for the 
underlying defect. These strategies include bone-marrow transplantation, 
enzyme-replacement therapy and gene therapy. Our group has been exploring the 
alternative strategy of substrate deprivation. This approach aims to balance the 
rate of GSL synthesis with the impaired rate of GSL breakdown. Studies using an 
asymptomatic mouse model of Tay-Sachs disease have shown that substrate 
deprivation prevents GSL storage. In a severe neurodegenerative mouse model of 
Sandhoff disease, substrate deprivation delayed the onset of symptoms and 
disease progression, and significantly increased life expectancy. The 
implications of this research for human therapy have been discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1462399400001484
PMID: 14585134


910. Cancer Treat Rev. 2003 Dec;29(6):533-40. doi: 10.1016/s0305-7372(03)00105-1.

The management of brain metastases.

Patchell RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, University of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington, 
KY 40536, USA. rpatchell@aol.com

Brain metastases are neoplasms that originate in tissues outside the brain and 
then spread secondarily to the brain. Metastases to the brain are the most 
common intracranial tumours in adults. Substantial progress has been made in the 
treatment of these tumours, and radiotherapy, surgery, and stereotactic 
radiosurgery are now established treatments. With aggressive treatment, most 
patients experience meaningful symptom reduction and extension of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0305-7372(03)00105-1
PMID: 14585263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Gene. 2003 Oct 30;318:169-75. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(03)00772-8.

Human disease genes: patterns and predictions.

Smith NG(1), Eyre-Walker A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala 
University, Norbyvägen 18D, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. nick.smith@ebc.uu.se

We compared genes at which mutations are known to cause human disease (disease 
genes) with other human genes (nondisease genes) using a large set of 
human-rodent alignments to infer evolutionary patterns. Such comparisons may be 
of use both in predicting disease genes and in understanding the general 
evolution of human genes. Four features were found to differ significantly 
between disease and nondisease genes, with disease genes (i) evolving with 
higher nonsynonymous/synonymous substitution rate ratios (Ka/Ks), (ii) evolving 
at higher synonymous substitution rates, (iii) with longer protein-coding 
sequences, and (iv) expressed in a narrower range of tissues. Discriminant 
analysis showed that these differences may help to predict human disease genes. 
We also investigated other factors affecting the mode of evolution in the 
disease genes: Ka/Ks is significantly affected by protein function, mode of 
inheritance, and the reduction of life expectancy caused by disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(03)00772-8
PMID: 14585509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Health Policy. 2003 Nov;66(2):147-58. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00021-6.

Long-term follow-up and consequences for severe road traffic injuries-treatment 
costs and health impairment in Sweden in the 1960s and the 1990s.

Maraste P(1), Persson U, Berntman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Technology and Society, Lund Institute of Technology, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.

The purpose of this study is to provide information from two prospective 
long-term follow-ups for severe road traffic injuries in Sweden. The long-term 
consequences, in terms of loss of health and costs of care, are presented for 
severe injuries in Sweden in the early 1990s and are compared with information 
on injury severity and health care utilisation 25 years ago. The follow-up in 
the 1990s show that, 1 year after the accident 38% of the non-fatal adults were 
suffering of some functional disability, pain and distress. Adults suffering 
from long-term loss of health decreased to 23% on average 3.7 years after the 
accident. The average health care cost was estimated to SEK46200 (in 1995 
prices), and the average in-patient care was 10 days. However, when also 
including subsequent expected life-long care for three severely injured 
patients, the average incidence-based health care cost was estimated to 
SEK100300. In the 4-5 year follow-up 25 years ago, severe traffic injuries were 
treated on average 21 days in hospital and 38% of the adults were still 
suffering from long-term physical effects. Conclusions to be drawn are that 
treatment in hospital of severe traffic injuries has shortened by half and 
long-term consequences have not been worsened. Our results indicate that 
long-term effects do not cause as serious loss of health nowadays as they did 25 
years ago.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(03)00021-6
PMID: 14585514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2003 Nov;26(5):1010-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.03.002.

Patient perceptions of an outpatient palliative care intervention: "It had been 
on my mind before, but I did not know how to start talking about death...".

Rabow MW(1), Schanche K, Petersen J, Dibble SL, McPhee SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of California at San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94115, USA.

Little is known about whether introducing palliative care to seriously ill 
outpatients continuing to pursue treatment of their disease is acceptable or 
beneficial to patients. Intervention patients in a trial of outpatient 
palliative care consultation completed structured exit interviews as part of a 
qualitative study. Participants had advanced heart or lung disease or cancer, 
and a life expectancy between 1 to 5 years as estimated by their primary care 
physician (PCP). Thirty-five of 50 intervention patients (70%) completed the 
final interview. Twenty-one patients (60%) reported that the team uncovered 
previously undiagnosed medical problems, 12 patients (34.3%) reported decreased 
primary care visits, and 8 (22.9%) reported avoiding emergency department 
visits. Most patients reported improved satisfaction with family caregivers 
(85.7%), PCPs (80%), and the medical center (65.7%). Most patients (68.6%) would 
have wanted the intervention even earlier in the course of their illness. 
Seriously ill outpatients found palliative care acceptable and helpful, 
reporting increased satisfaction and decreased health care utilization.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2003.03.002
PMID: 14585552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Lancet. 2003 Oct 25;362(9393):1420-1. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)14659-4.

Prognosis of diabetes in the developing world.

Yudkin JS, Beran D.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2003 Aug 16;362(9383):503-4.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(03)14659-4
PMID: 14585659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Invest New Drugs. 2003 Nov;21(4):465-71. doi: 10.1023/a:1026259503954.

A phase II study of rebeccamycin analog (NSC-655649) in metastatic renal cell 
cancer.

Hussain M(1), Vaishampayan U, Heilbrun LK, Jain V, LoRusso PM, Ivy P, Flaherty 
L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute and 
Wayne State, University, Detroit, MI, USA. mahahuss@umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: Rebeccamycin analog (NSC-655649) is an antibiotic with antitumor 
properties demonstrated in preclinical and phase I studies. We conducted a phase 
II trial to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of this agent in patients with 
advanced renal cell cancer (RCC).
METHODS: Eligible patients had histologically or cytologically confirmed 
diagnosis of RCC that was either locally advanced unresectable, locally 
recurrent, or metastatic. Patients had to have measurable disease, no prior 
chemotherapy, life expectancy of greater than 12 weeks, an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-2, adequate-organ function, and be 
>/=18 years old. Patients were treated with NSC-655649 at a dose of 165 mg/m(2) 
daily i.v. over 30-60 min for 5 days. Treatment was repeated every 21 days. 
Response was assessed every two courses.
RESULTS: Twenty-four patients were enrolled. There were sixteen males and eight 
females with a median age of 60.5 years (range 42-76). Nineteen were Caucasians, 
seventeen had prior nephrectomy, and thirteen had prior immunotherapy. The major 
toxicity was myelosuppression with grade 3 and 4 neutropenia in 38% of patients 
and anemia in 33% of patients. There were two partial responses (2/24, 8%) and 
11 patients (46%) achieved stable disease (SD). The 6-month progression-free 
rate for patients with SD was 30%. Of the seventeen patients with progressive 
disease at registration, one had a PR and eight had SD. The overall median 
survival time for all 24 patients was 10.0 months (90% CI=5.2, 17.4 months). The 
12-month survival rate was 39%, with 90% CI=(0.21, 0.58). Nine patients are 
still alive with survival times ranging from 3.8 to 24.2 months, at a median 
follow-up time of 11.9 months.
CONCLUSION: Rebeccamycin analog (NSC-655649) is well tolerated and has modest 
antitumor activity in patients with advanced RCC.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026259503954
PMID: 14586215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2003 Oct 31;52(43):1042-4.

Prevalence of selected risk factors for chronic disease--Jordan, 2002.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In Jordan, the average life expectancy in 2002 was 72 years, and chronic 
diseases are becoming increasingly prevalent. Because personal behavior can 
influence the occurrence and progression of many chronic diseases, the Jordan 
Ministry of Health (JMoH) established surveillance for behavioral risk factors, 
particularly those related to cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. This report 
summarizes the key findings of the 2002 Behavioral Risk Factor Survey, the first 
reporting segment in Jordan's surveillance program for chronic diseases. The 
findings indicate that smoking, physical inactivity, and obesity contribute 
substantially to the burden of chronic disease in Jordan and underscores the 
need for effective public health interventions.

PMID: 14586296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2003 Oct;189(4):1120-7. doi:
10.1067/s0002-9378(03)00579-9.

Ovarian cancer: changes in patterns at diagnosis and relative survival over the 
last three decades.

Barnholtz-Sloan JS(1), Schwartz AG, Qureshi F, Jacques S, Malone J, Munkarah AR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Wayne State 
University School of Medicine and Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, 
Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA. jbsloan@med.wayne.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine patterns of diagnosis and 
relative survival in women who had a diagnosis of primary invasive epithelial 
ovarian cancer (EOC) from 1973 to 1997, with follow-up through the end of 1999.
STUDY DESIGN: From the population-based Surveillance, Epidemiology and End 
Results (SEER) Program, 32,845 women diagnosed between 1973 and 1997 were used 
for analysis. The study population was divided in three cohorts based on year of 
diagnosis and the cohorts were compared with respect to variables of interest by 
using chi(2) tests and relative survival analysis by the life table method.
RESULTS: There was an increase in the proportions of minorities diagnosed with 
EOC, of women 60 years or older at diagnosis, and of women undergoing surgery 
over time. Survival continuously improved over time, although older patients (60 
years or older) and African Americans continued to have the poorest survival.
CONCLUSION: Over time, relative survival of women who had primary invasive EOC 
diagnosed improved.

DOI: 10.1067/s0002-9378(03)00579-9
PMID: 14586365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Bone Miner Metab. 2003;21(6):402-8. doi: 10.1007/s00774-003-0435-5.

Quantitative ultrasound of bone and clodronate effects in thalassemia-induced 
osteoporosis.

Pennisi P(1), Pizzarelli G, Spina M, Riccobene S, Fiore CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine University of Catania, Via Plebiscito 628, 
95124 Catania, Italy.

Osteoporosis in beta-thalassemia major has emerged as a topic of interest since 
optimized transfusion regimens have increased life expectancy and quality in 
these patients. Although the pathogenesis of thalassemic osteopathy is 
multifactorial, the evidence of an increased resorption phase suggests that the 
use of antiresorptive drugs such as bisphosphonates can be considered a valuable 
therapeutic strategy to reduce bone turnover and the risk of fragility 
fractures. We compared the effects of long-term cyclical clodronate therapy (300 
mg intravenous infusion every 3 weeks for 2 years) and of an active placebo 
(calcium 1 vitamin D) on bone mass and bone turnover in 30 male patients with 
beta-thalassemia major. We also tested the possibility of using quantitative 
ultrasound (QUS) for assessing bone involvement in thalassemic osteopenia and in 
monitoring the response to antiresorptive therapy. Broadband ultrasound 
attenuation (BUA) was significantly reduced in patients with beta-thalassemia 
major as compared to healthy controls. In calcium and vitamin D-treated 
patients, a significant decline in spine, femoral, and total body areal bone 
density was observed. In the patients given intravenous clodronate we measured a 
substantial stability of bone mass, which was not significantly changed at the 
end of the study. The urinary excretion of deoxypyridinoline (a marker of bone 
resorption) showed a progressive significant decline throughout the study period 
in clodronate-treated patients. No significant change was observed in BUA values 
in both groups of patients. These results indicate that intermittent intravenous 
clodronate administration was not able to increase areal bone density in our 
thalassemic patients. Moreover, this is the first study to have assessed the 
usefulness of broadband ultrasound measurements in beta-thalassemia major.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-003-0435-5
PMID: 14586797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Anal Chem. 2003 Nov 1;75(21):6029-33. doi: 10.1021/ac0346959.

Cylindrical compact thermal-cycling device for continuous-flow polymerase chain 
reaction.

Park N(1), Kim S, Hahn JH.

Author information:
(1)National Research Laboratory for Advanced Biotechnology and Biomedical 
Microinstrumentation, Department of Chemistry, Division of Molecular and Life 
Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, San 31 Hyoja-Dong, Pohang 
790-784, South Korea.

Erratum in
    Anal Chem. 2004 Feb 15;76(4):1211.

A compact, thermal-cycling device for high-throughput continuous-flow polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) has been developed, which consists of a flow-through 
capillary and a cylindrical heating-block assembly. A 3.5-m-long fused-silica 
capillary coils helically, with 33 turns, up around the 30-mm-diameter assembly 
of three equally divided thermostating copper blocks for melting, annealing, and 
extension. An injected PCR mixture undergoes one cycle of PCR each turn. A 
continuous-flow PCR of one sample and also a segmented-flow PCR of four 
different samples have been successfully demonstrated. The present device can 
easily evolve into a parallel-processing, multistation compact device and be 
modified to have real-time PCR capability. This solid-based compact PCR device, 
therefore, has a potentiality to be the format of choice when developed for a 
portable system.

DOI: 10.1021/ac0346959
PMID: 14588047


920. Rev Esp Med Nucl. 2003 Nov;22(6):386-94. doi: 10.1016/s0212-6982(03)72222-8.

[Clinical significance of tumor content of epidermal growth factor receptor in 
breast cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Mulero M(1), Fernández Raigoso P, Vázquez J, Lamelas ML, Corte D, Allende MT, 
Rodríguez JC, Vizoso F.

Author information:
(1)Medicina de Familia y Comunitaria del Hospital Central de Asturias. Oviedo. 
Asturias. Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the content of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
using a radioligand method in breast cancer and to analyze the relationship 
between the EGFR levels and the characteristics of patients and tumors. 
Prognostic significance was also analyzed.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: EGFR was measured by a single point radioligand assay in 
265 invasive breast carcinomas tissues. In addition, estrogen and progesterone 
receptors (ER and PR) were measured by enzymatic immunoassays. We analyze the 
relationship of EGFR levels with the different clinico-pathologic parameters.
RESULTS: EGFR levels in breast carcinomas varied widely (0.1 to 403) with a 
median at 4 fmol/mg prot. The significantly higher concentrations of EGFR were 
detected in patients under 60 years old (p = 0.042), undifferentiated tumors (p 
= 0.04), and carcinomas with negative ER and PR (p < 0.019 y p < 0018, 
respectively). In addition, there was a negative correlation between EGFR and 
the ER and PR levels (p < 0.05). EGFR levels did not show any relationship with 
the patient's prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition, intratumoral levels of EGFR in breast carcinomas vary 
widely and the highest concentrations are associated with the most aggresive 
characteristics of the tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0212-6982(03)72222-8
PMID: 14588231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Sleep Med. 2002 Jul;3(4):341-5. doi: 10.1016/s1389-9457(02)00013-8.
