new approaches to understanding the molecular bases for differences in aging 
rates and life expectancy among species.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2002.17.pe5
PMID: 14602985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2002 Jun 19;2002(24):pe10. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2002.24.pe10.

Oxygen? No thanks, I'm on a diet.

Longo VD(1).

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, Division of Biogerontology, and Department of 
Biological Sciences at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-0191, USA. vlongo@usc.edu

In yeast and worms, mutations that extend longevity appear to simulate 
starvation conditions. The daf-2 pathway in worms plays a major role in 
life-span extension and in entry into the starvation-resistant and 
low-metabolism dauer phase. In a recent study published in Science Express on 13 
June 2002, researchers screened for Caenorhabditis elegans mutants that survive 
in a low-oxygen environment and identified a number of daf-2 mutants that are 
resistant to hypoxia. The implications of these results are discussed in this 
Perspective.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2002.24.pe10
PMID: 14602992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2002 Jan 23;2002(3):pe2. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2002.3.pe2.

Regulation of aging by germline stem cells.

Tatar M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, 
RI 02912, USA. marc_tatar@Brown.edu

The author discusses a recent paper published in Science (see Arantes-Oliveira) 
that shows that germline stem cells in the worm Caenorhabditis elegans send a 
signal to a steroid hormone receptor and a forkhead-family member to stimulate 
reproduction and shorten longevity. The author compares the new results to 
previous findings in the fruit fly and discusses possible mechanisms behind the 
inverse relationship between reproduction and life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2002.3.pe2
PMID: 14602999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2002 Sep 18;2002(37):nf10. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2002.37.nf10.

The shrimps shall inherit the earth.

Chen I.

A new report confirms that peewees outlast titans--among rodents, at least. 
Whereas most studies assess size at one time point or life stage, the new one 
tracks the rodents' weight month by month from birth to death. As a result, the 
work offers the first hint that body weight at an early age correlates with an 
animal's life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2002.37.nf10
PMID: 14603003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2002 Oct 30;2002(43):pe17. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2002.43.pe17.

Of worms, flies, dwarfs, and things that go bump in the night.

Sonntag WE(1), Ramsey MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Wake Forest University School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. wsonntag@wfubmc.edu

Studies over the past several years have found that antagonism of the 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling pathway increases 
life-span in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila. However, a persistent 
problem in these studies is the fact that the genetic mutation has effects on 
the development of the organism as well as on reproductive function. These 
effects act as potential confounding variables that complicate the 
interpretation of results. Kenyon and colleagues circumvent these issues by 
suppressing the insulin/IGF-1-like daf-2 signaling pathway at specific stages in 
the life-span of C. elegans. The results of their investigation challenge our 
understanding of the evolution of aging and provide opportunities for future 
studies in mammalian models.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2002.43.pe17
PMID: 14603010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Nov 5;2003(44):pe30. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.44.pe30.

Strategies for engineered negligible senescence.

Gray DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Regional Cancer Centre, Ottawa, Canada K1H 1C4. Doug.Gray@orcc.on.ca

This Perspective summarizes presentations at the 10th Congress of the 
International Association of Biomedical Gerontology, which was held in 
Cambridge, England in September 2003. The seminar topics ranged from telomeres 
to ethics, stem cells to limb regeneration. The meeting organizer, Aubrey de 
Grey, is a leading proponent of life extension through biological engineering.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.44.pe30
PMID: 14603036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Sex Transm Dis. 2003 Nov;30(11):859-65. doi:
10.1097/01.OLQ.0000086601.18907.47.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis A/B vaccine versus hepatitis B vaccine in public 
sexually transmitted disease clinics.

Jacobs RJ(1), Meyerhoff AS.

Author information:
(1)Capitol Outcomes Research, Inc, Alexandria, VA 22310, USA. 
jake.jacobs@capitaloutcomesresearch.com

Comment in
    Sex Transm Dis. 2005 Aug;32(8):465.

BACKGROUND: Many patients seen at U.S. sexually transmitted disease (STD) 
clinics are offered hepatitis B vaccination. Substituting hepatitis A/B vaccine 
would provide additional protection but increase costs.
GOAL: The goal was to estimate the cost effectiveness of hepatitis A/B versus B 
vaccination for 1,000,000 public STD clinic attenders.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model of hepatitis A outcomes was developed using 
published literature, U.S. government databases, and expert panel opinion. Added 
vaccination costs were compared with savings from reduced hepatitis A treatment. 
Net costs were compared with life-years saved and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: Substituting hepatitis A/B vaccine would prevent 2263 overt hepatitis A 
infections, 292 hospitalizations, 8 premature deaths, and the loss of 281 QALYs. 
Net health system costs would be $20,892 per life-year saved, or $13,397 per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Substituting hepatitis A/B for hepatitis B vaccine would reduce 
morbidity and mortality in a cost-effective manner.

DOI: 10.1097/01.OLQ.0000086601.18907.47
PMID: 14603096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Minerva Chir. 2003 Aug;58(4):439-46.

Laparoscopic colorectal resection with curative intent. Own results and review 
of the literature.

Scheidbach H(1), Lippert H, Köckerling F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany. 
scheidbach@t-online.de

AIM: Laparoscopic surgery is without a doubt one of the most important 
innovations in the field of surgery in the last 15 years. Since the 1st 
laparoscopic colorectal resection in 1991, this modality has spread like 
wildfire. Nevertheless, laparoscopic surgery in the field of oncology is still 
regarded as controversial. On the basis of our current knowledge, the present 
study considers the advantages and disadvantages of laparoscopic surgery 
performed with a curative intent - with emphasis on oncological radicalness and 
long-term outcome - and evaluates them against our own results.
METHODS: In principle, the extent of the resection, compliance with margins of 
clearance, radicalness of lymphadenectomy and the avoidance of intra-abdominal 
tumour dissemination (for example, no touch technique) must be applied equally 
to the laparoscopic modality, too.
RESULTS: At present there would not appear to be any restrictions vis-à-vis open 
surgery in any of the oncological parameters. Nor do currently available 
long-term results provide any evidence that laparoscopic colorectal surgery is 
in any way inferior.
CONCLUSION: Colorectal oncological interventions with curative intent are still 
recommended to be done only in controlled studies. A final assessment will not 
be possible until the results of ongoing prospective randomized multicentre 
studies become available.

PMID: 14603156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Minerva Chir. 2003 Aug;58(4):515-22.

[Surgical treatment for colorectal cancer in patients over 80 years. Short and 
long term results].

[Article in Italian]

Capra F(1), Scintu F, Zorcolo L, Casula G.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgia Generale II, Università degli Studi di Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy. 
fabio.capra@tin.it

AIM: To determine the results of elective surgical treatment for colo-rectal 
cancer in the elderly.
METHODS: A total of 746 patients were consequently operated on in elective 
conditions for colorectal cancer. Patients were divided into 4 groups, according 
to patient's age: Group A > or =80; Group B=70-79; Group C=60-69; Group D < or = 
60.
RESULTS: Between older patients there was a higher percentage of right colon 
cancers (A: 26.3%; B: 13.9%; C: 16.6%; D: 20.6%) and stage D tumors (A: 34.4%; 
B: 28.3%; C: 21.4%; D: 26%), explaining the greater proportion of palliative 
surgical treatment in this group of patients (A: 34.7%; B: 28.2%; C: 28.6%; D: 
25.7%). There were no differences in term of morbidity (A: 12.6%; B: 9.2%; C: 
5.1%; D: 6.4%), mean hospital stay (A: 18.9+/-16.2 days; B: 17.2+/-15.8; C: 
15.2+/-8.6; D: 16.8+/-21.8) and postoperative mortality (A: 3.1%; B: 2.3%; C-D: 
0.4%); on the contrary, survival curve in group A was significantly shorter than 
in the other groups.
CONCLUSION: Advanced age is not per se a negative prognostic factor and 
consequently does not represent a contraindication to surgery. In fact, 
long-term results have been proved to be similar both in young and old patients. 
Nevertheless, elderly patients have a lower capacity to react to postoperative 
complications; this needs an accurate evaluation of single patient, considering 
different parameters such as disease stage, possibility of cure or palliation, 
quality and expectancy of life.

PMID: 14603163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Minerva Chir. 2003 Aug;58(4):523-28,529-32.

Gastrointestinal carcinoids. Prognosis and survival.

[Article in English, Italian]

Caprotti R(1), Angelini C, Mussi C, Romano F, Sartori P, Scaini A, Muselli P, 
Uggeri F.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, San Gerardo Hospital, University of 
Milan-Bicocca, Milan, Italy. fabriziorom@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors are rare and little is known about 
factors related to prognosis in patients with carcinoid disease. Aim of this 
study is to determine the impact of clinical presentation variables on the 
management and survival.
METHODS: We have evaluated 31 consecutive patients with gastrointestinal 
carcinoid tu-mours who underwent surgical intervention at the I Department of 
Surgery of Milano-Bicocca University over 15 years (1985-1999). Tumor 
distribution, hormone production, prognostic factors and survival were analysed.
RESULTS: Carcinoid syndrome was the only clinical pattern diagnostic of 
carcinoid tumour. Most common symptoms were abdominal pain (64%), nausea and 
vomiting (48%). High levels of urinary 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid were 
significantly associated with carcinoid syndrome and metastatic disease. Tumor 
size, depth and gender were significant predictors of metastases. Age, gender, 
tumor size, metastatic spread and location were statistically significant 
predictors of death.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical presentation was non specific except for those patients 
affected by carcinoid syndrome. Ten years overall survival was 43%, with 52% 
metastatic spread incidence. The extent of surgical resection should be 
modulated on patient related risk factors. Poor prognostic factors affecting 
survival were: age, gender, metastatic disease, depth of invasion and tumour 
size.

PMID: 14603164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2003 Aug;52(4):246-53. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-3928(03)00082-9.

[Value and role of lipid lowering therapy for cardiovascular prevention in the 
elderly].

[Article in French]

Philippe F(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de pathologie cardiaque, institut mutualiste Montsouris 42, 
boulevard Jourdan, 75116 Paris, France. francois.philippe@imm.fr

Most of elderly people die of coronary and cerebrovascular disease events or 
become disabled after non fatal stroke or dementia. Most of evidence of benefits 
shown in both primary and secondary prevention comes from randomized trials done 
on middle-aged men. The elderly population exposed to major cardiovascular 
events and dementia regularly increase due to the lengthening of life 
expectancy. If the benefit of anti-hypertensives agents is now well-established 
in isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly, evidence of efficacy with 
statins remained unclear and needed to be investigated. Observational studies 
and post-hoc analysis of randomized trials have raised the possibility that 
statins could reduce the rate of cardiovascular events and the rate of dementia 
in elderly individuals. In this setting occur the results of two recent trials 
investigated the effects of simvastatin in a high cardiovascular risk population 
of whom 30% were aged 70 or older (Heart Protection Study), or the effects of 
pravastatin for primary or secondary prevention in high risk elderly patients 
with a middle-age of 75 (Prosper). Major cardiovascular events are significantly 
reduced in both trials but the relative risk reduction is lower than in previous 
trials in middle-aged patients. In Prosper, the most beneficial group of 
patients are those with baseline HDL cholesterol under 0.40 g l-1 (1.1 mmol 
l-1); coronary heart disease events is the principal component of treatment 
benefit whereas cerebrovascular events are not significantly reduced at 3-years 
follow-up probably due to the short duration of the trial. The outcome do not 
provide evidence for benefit in dementia. However, there is a non significant 
trend to reduction of transient ischaemic attacks. Recent publications suggest 
that stroke benefit from statins does not begin to appear until after 3 years of 
treatment. Hence, those evidence suggests that the strategy for vascular risk 
management in middle aged people should also be applied to elderly individuals 
with a greatest benefit in the subgroup with the lowest HDL cholesterol.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-3928(03)00082-9
PMID: 14603706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jan;58(2):305-14. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(03)00208-9.

A direct method for estimating the compensating income variation for severe 
headache and migraine.

Groot W(1), Maassen van den Brink H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. wim.groot@beoz.unimaas.nl

A subjective quality of life measurement method is introduced to calculate the 
compensating income variation for diseases and handicaps. This approach avoids 
some of the limitations of existing methods. The method is based on the direct 
measurement of life satisfaction of individuals. We apply the method to severe 
headache and migraine. It is found that severe headache and migraine have a 
large effect on well being and that the compensating income variation for severe 
headache and migraine is substantial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(03)00208-9
PMID: 14604616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Soc Sci Med. 2004 Jan;58(2):315-20. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(03)00215-6.

Optimisation versus certainty: understanding the issue of heterogeneity in 
economic evaluation.

Stevens W(1), Normand C.

Author information:
(1)MRC Laboratories, Fajara, PO Box 273, Banjul, Gambia. wstevens@mrc.gm

This paper considers how the information provided by economic evaluation for 
decision-makers can fail to optimise use of health resources and how assessment 
of the relative cost-effectiveness of health care interventions can be 
misleading unless heterogeneity within populations is taken into account. The 
cost-effectiveness of an intervention is not a point estimate but an average 
chosen from within a distribution of different results. The normal 
interpretation of the distribution around that point is often mistakenly assumed 
to be the 'white noise' of measurement error. In reality this variance is a 
combination of measurement error and true heterogeneity of results. There 
remains an overemphasis on pursuing certainty which stems from the fact that the 
methods involved were originally devised to measure dichotomous outcomes not 
continuous ones such as cost-effectiveness ratios. It is argued in this paper 
that more consideration be given to the heterogeneous nature of costs and 
effects across populations in analysis and policy making.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(03)00215-6
PMID: 14604617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Rev Med Interne. 2003 Nov;24(11):711-5. doi: 10.1016/s0248-8663(03)00220-0.

[Homozygous sickle cell disease in patients above 20 years of age: follow-up of 
108 patients in Dakar].

[Article in French]

Diop S(1), Mokono SO, Ndiaye M, Touré Fall AO, Thiam D, Diakhaté L.

Author information:
(1)Service d'hématologie, centre national de transfusion sanguine, CHU de Dakar, 
avenue Cheikh-Anta-Diop, BP 5002 Dakar-Fann, Sénégal. saliou.diop@sunumail.sn

CONTEXT: The progress realized in the treatment of sickle cell anemia has 
resulted to a better and longer life for these patients in developed countries. 
Ongoing challenge are to manage complication and social living for these 
patients. The purpose of this study was to determine morbidity, mortality and 
socioprofessional insertion of homozygous sickle cell patients, followed up in 
Dakar university hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a longitudinal and prospective study 
including 108 homozygous sickle cell anemia patients, whose age were above 20 
years, followed in a regular basis (at least 3 times per year), during 5 years 
on average (3 to 12 years). All patients had a quarterly hematological check-up 
and a annual statement to detect chronic complications. Clinic and paraclinical 
data, as information in socioprofessional insertion were noted in medical 
records for analysis.
RESULTS: Mean age was 27 years (20-51 years). The age between 20-29 years was 
represented by 67.5%, 26.9% aged 30-39 years and 5.6% were above 40 years of 
age. Men were slightly predominant with a sex-ratio of 1.25. Concerning 
morbidity, 96.3% of patients had at least 1 vaso-occlusive crisis per year, 
26.9% were transfused and 64.8% had been hospitalized during the follow-up. A 
chronic complication was found in 49% of patients (53/108). The more frequent of 
these complications were gall stone (10%), femoral head necrosis (9.2%), 
priapism (11.6% of men), chronic leg ulceration (4.6%), ophthalmic involvement 
(3.7%), renal and cardiac complications (2.7% for each one). The presence of 
complications was not significantly influenced by patient's sex. Five patients 
died during a mean follow-up of 5 years. Concerning school attendance, 13% reach 
university level whereas 47% stop their education on the secondary level and 40% 
on primary level. Professionally, 36.2% of patients had no exercise any 
activity.
CONCLUSION: Our results emphasize that life expectancy can be prolonged in 
sickle cell anemia patients in Africa, when they have a benefit of a regular 
follow-up. We show also the respective frequency of chronic complications and 
then, the necessity of multidisciplinary teams to optimize the take care of 
sickle cell anemia patients in Africa.

DOI: 10.1016/s0248-8663(03)00220-0
PMID: 14604747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Science. 2003 Dec 19;302(5653):2124-2126. doi: 10.1126/science.1088697. Epub
 2003 Nov 6.

Yeast life-span extension by calorie restriction is independent of NAD 
fluctuation.

Anderson RM(#)(1), Latorre-Esteves M(#)(1), Neves AR(2), Lavu S(1)(3), Medvedik 
O(1), Taylor C(3), Howitz KT(3), Santos H(2), Sinclair DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, 200 Longwood Avenue, Boston 
MA 02115, USA.
(2)Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Rua 
da Quinta Grande 6, Apartado 127, 2780-156 OEIRAS, Portugal.
(3)Biomol Research Laboratories, Inc., 5120 Butler Pike, Plymouth Meeting, PA 
19462, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Calorie restriction (CR) slows aging in numerous species. In the yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, this effect requires Sir2, a conserved NAD+-dependent 
deacetylase. We report that CR reduces nuclear NAD+ levels in vivo. Moreover, 
the activity of Sir2 and its human homologue SIRT1 are not affected by 
physiological alterations in the NAD+:NADH ratio. These data implicate alternate 
mechanisms of Sir2 regulation by CR.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1088697
PMCID: PMC4998187
PMID: 14605207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Rev Neurol. 2003 Nov 1-15;37(9):849-59.

[Women and strokes: specific therapy for female patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Gil-Núñez AC(1), Vivancos-Mora J.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Ictus, Servicio de Neurología, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañon, Madrid, España. agiln@meditex.es

INTRODUCTION: Stroke is the primary cause of mortality and incapacity of women 
in Spain. Current therapeutic guidelines are based on clinical trials in which 
the number of females taking part is insufficient, and overall benefits are then 
dangerously extrapolated to women.
DEVELOPMENT AND CONCLUSIONS: Strokes in women have important features that 
distinguish them from those suffered by males, both as regards risk factors and 
aetiology, and in prevention and the therapeutic treatment that is performed 
during the fertile stage, pregnancy and menopause. There is, then, a need for 
further studies and specific clinical trials about strokes in females. Health 
professionals, society and the authorities, as well as women themselves, also 
need to be made more aware of the importance of strokes and to be provided with 
more information. If not, this epidemic will increase, especially if we bear in 
mind the foreseeable increase in life expectancy, and mortality and loss of 
independence in women will rise along with it.

PMID: 14606054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Ann Urol (Paris). 2003 Oct;37(5):239-43. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4401(03)00057-3.

[Malignant renal tumors before one year of age. Experience of a North African 
pediatric surgery service].

[Article in French]

Mekki M(1), Landolsi A, Belghith M, Krichene I, Chelly S, Zakhama A, Jouini R, 
Golli M, Gahbiche M, Nouri A.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie pédiatrique, centre hospitalier universitaire 
Fattouma-Bourguiba, 5000 Monastir, Tunisie. mongi.mekki@fmm.rnu.tn

The malignant tumours of the kidney are not very frequent during the first year 
of life and pose diagnostic and therapeutic problems. The aim of this work is to 
make an analysis of the epidemiologic, clinical and anatomo-pathological 
characteristics of these tumours during the first year of life and a development 
on the therapeutic methods and their results.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: [corrected] This is a retrospective study of 8 
observations of malignant tumours of the kidney whose first symptomatology 
appeared during the first year of life.
RESULTS: The malignant tumours of the kidney observed before the one year age 
constituted 18% of the tumours of the kidney in the child. A female prevalence 
was noted with a sex-ratio of 0.6. The assessment of extension found cutaneous 
(one case), ganglionic (one case) and pulmonary (two cases) metastases. First 
chemotherapy was prescribed to five patients. The surgery consisted on a widened 
nephrectomy in seven cases and a tumorectomy for an infant presenting a 
nephroblastomatosis. The tumour corresponded to a nephroblastoma in seven cases 
and a rhabdoide tumour in the last case. Mortality was high (50%) caused by the 
toxicity of chemotherapy in three cases and an advanced stage of cancer in one 
case.
CONCLUSION: Renal tumoral pathology occurring in infants less than one year of 
age poses true etiologic and therapeutic problems. The high frequency of the 
nephroblastoma and the absence of benign tumour in our series encourage us to 
evocate more often the malignant renal tumours and to practice per cutaneous 
biopsies in case of diagnostic doubt.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4401(03)00057-3
PMID: 14606310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Compr Ther. 2003 Summer-Fall;29(2-3):130-45. doi: 10.1007/s12019-003-0017-4.

Diagnosis and management of diabetic autonomic neuropathy.

Vinik AI(1), Mehrabyan A.

Author information:
(1)Strelitz Diabetes Research Institutes, Departments of Internal Medicine and 
Anatomy/Neurobiology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Va., USA.

Autonomic neuropathy affects every system in the body including the eye, 
cardiovascular, respiratory, and gastrointestinal and neurovascular systems. The 
diagnosis confers an attenuated life expectancy, but much can be done to 
alleviate symptoms and to address the underlying disorder.

DOI: 10.1007/s12019-003-0017-4
PMID: 14606343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2003 Oct 18;147(42):2056-60.

[Coinfection with hepatitis C virus and HIV].

[Article in Dutch]

Ruys TA(1), Reesink HW, Lange JM.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Inwendige Geneeskunde, onderafd. Infectieziekten, Tropische Geneeskunde 
en Aids, Academisch Medisch Centrum/Universiteit van Amsterdam, Postbus 22.660, 
1100 DD Amsterdam. t.ruys@amc.uva.nl

The life expectancy of patients with an HIV infection has improved dramatically 
since the introduction of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART). 
Retrospective studies have shown that since then, hospital admissions and 
mortality caused by a co-infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) have increased. 
Patients with an HIV-HCV co-infection exhibit on average a more rapid 
progression to liver cirrhosis and liver failure than patients with an HCV 
monoinfection. It is expected that a co-infection with HCV will lead to serious 
complications among some of the HIV-infected population. It is therefore 
recommended that all HIV-infected patients be screened for a co-infection with 
HCV. The treatment of an HCV co-infection needs to be considered. The first 
choice therapy will probably be a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin, 
although final conclusions about the safety and efficacy are still awaited. A 
combination of ribavirin with zidovudine or didanosine is best avoided. 
Developments being made with new classes of drugs, such as HCV-specific protease 
inhibitors and polymerase inhibitors, seem promising.

PMID: 14606352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Tumori. 2003 Jul-Aug;89(4):443-7. doi: 10.1177/030089160308900420.

High-dose radiation-induced meningiomas. Report of five cases and critical 
review of the literature.

Salvati M(1), Caroli E, Brogna C, Orlando ER, Delfini R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, INM Neuromed IRCCS, Pozzilli (Is), University of 
Rome La Sapienza, Italy. salvati.maurizio@libero.it

Radiotherapy is an important modality for the treatment of tumors and 
arteriovenous malformations affecting the central nervous system, even though 
several significant side effects have been described (radionecrosis, tumors, 
etc.). Meningiomas induced by high-dose radiation therapy are uncommon. In this 
study we describe five cases treated at our institute and review all previously 
published reports of meningioma occurring after high-dose radiotherapy. These 
tumors develop mainly in patients irradiated in childhood; their incidence peaks 
in the second decade of life, there is a predominance in females and a high 
frequency of malignant forms. Although rare, meningiomas may represent a late 
complication of radiation treatment. The behavior of the radiation-induced 
variety of meningioma seems to differ from that of its "spontaneous" 
counterpart. The use of radiotherapy should be carefully evaluated for 
relatively benign or congenital lesions which generally affect young patients 
with a long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160308900420
PMID: 14606653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2003 Nov;48(2):123-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.04.003.

When to diagnose and how to treat prostate cancer in the "not too fit" elderly.

Dahm P(1), Silverstein AD, Weizer AZ, Crisci A, Vieweg J, Paulson DF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, 
27710, Durham, NC, USA

The appropriate management of elderly patients diagnosed with prostate cancer 
remains controversial. In order to provide guidelines as to when aggressive 
local treatment may be indicated, we provide estimates of the long-term 
probability of death from prostate cancer and other competing causes in patients 
of 70 years of age or older, who underwent radical surgery in the form of 
radical perineal prostatectomy for clinically non-metastatic disease. In this 
study, a total of 484 patients with an age of 70 or above who underwent radical 
perineal prostatectomy between 1970 and 2000 comprised a retrospective cohort of 
patients with clinically organ confined prostate cancer. Of these patients, 461 
patients (95.3%) had a minimum follow-up of half a year and were included in the 
analysis. The median age was 73 years (range 70-81 years) and the median 
follow-up was 5.4 years. Overall 115 men died during the follow-up period with 
49.6% of deaths attributable to prostate cancer. The median time to 
cancer-associated death was 17.5 years and the median time to death of any cause 
11.6 years. When the likelihood of death from prostate cancer as a function of 
Gleason score was estimated, the 10-year cancer-associated death rates of 
patients with Gleason scores of 2-6, 7 and 8-10, were 15.2, 25.2 and 40.2%, 
respectively. In the subset of patient with margin positive disease the 
estimated likelihood of a cancer-associated death was 45.3% after 10 years. 
While the median time to cancer-associated death for margin positive patients 
with a Gleason score of 2-6 was not reached, patients with a Gleason score of 7 
and 8-10 experienced median cancer-associated survival times of 9.6 and 7.6 
years, respectively. In conclusion, Gleason score is a strong predictor of the 
likelihood of prostate cancer related death in elderly patients. Patients with a 
given Gleason score and a projected life expectancy of at least 10 years may be 
at similar risk of dying of prostate cancer as younger patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2003.04.003
PMID: 14607375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Fertil Steril. 2003 Nov;80(5):1185-9. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)01172-5.

Isolated teratozoospermia and intrauterine insemination.

Spiessens C(1), Vanderschueren D, Meuleman C, D'Hooghe T.

Author information:
(1)Leuven University Fertility Centre, University Hospital Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium. carl.spiessens@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2004 Jun;81(6):1717-8; author reply 1718-9.

OBJECTIVE: This study tests the hypothesis that IUI treatment in cases with 
isolated teratozoospermia (<10% normal forms using strict criteria, normal 
motility and normal count), results in a lower cumulative live birth rate 
compared to cases with normozoospermia.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: An academic fertility center.
PATIENT(S): Eight hundred seventy-two IUI cycles in 440 couples were analyzed.
INTERVENTION(S): Couples (n = 440) were classified in three groups: 
normozoospermia (n = 213), isolated teratozoospermia (n = 104), and male factor 
infertility (n = 123).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Live birth rate per cycle and cumulative live birth 
rate (CLBR).
RESULT(S): The three groups were similar with regard to female age, female 
infertility factors, and ovarian response after hormonal stimulation. The 
overall CLBR after four cycles was 41.5%, and was significantly increased in the 
normozoospermic group (52.8%) when compared to the isolated teratozoospermia 
group (33.4%) and the male factor infertility group (31.4%).
CONCLUSION(S): This study documents for the first time that the CLBR after four 
IUI cycles is significantly and similarly reduced in couples with isolated 
teratozoospermia as in couples with other sperm defects, when compared to 
couples with normozoospermia. As with couples with male factor infertility, 
couples with isolated teratozoospermia should be counseled about other treatment 
options such as IVF, as the CLBR after three IVF cycles is 70%-80% in our 
program.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)01172-5
PMID: 14607572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Fertil Steril. 2003 Nov;80(5):1255-9. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)01176-2.

Life-table analysis of the success of thermal balloon endometrial ablation in 
the treatment of menorrhagia.

Lok IH(1), Leung PL, Ng PS, Yuen PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Prince of Wales Hospital, The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong SAR, China. 
ingridlok@cuhk.edu.hk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the change in intrauterine pressure during thermal 
balloon endometrial ablation and to identify risk factors associated with 
treatment failure.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
SETTING: University-affiliated teaching hospital.
PATIENT(S): Seventy two consecutive patients with idiopathic menorrhagia 
refractory to medical treatment.
INTERVENTION(S): Thermal balloon endometrial ablation under patient-controlled 
sedation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Change in intrauterine pressure during the treatment 
cycle and risk factors associated with treatment failure.
RESULT(S): A spontaneous decrease in intrauterine pressure occurred in most 
patients (93%). The mean (+/-SD) decrease was 34.1 +/- 14.9 mm Hg, or 19.5% +/- 
9.1%. The treatment failed in 10 patients (13.9%), and the mean end pressure was 
significantly lower in this group (131.1 +/- 14.1 mm Hg vs. 145.1 +/- 18.0 mm 
Hg; P=.02). The chance of success of treatment was significantly lower when the 
end pressure was <140 mm Hg (odds ratio, 0.42 [95% CI, 0.27 to 0.68]; P=.01), 
the intrauterine volume was >10 mL (odds ratio, 0.43 [95% CI, 0.22 to 0.83]; 
P=.058) and the uterus was retroverted (odds ratio, 0.36 [95% CI, 0.20 to 0.65]; 
P=.008).
CONCLUSION(S): Maintaining high intrauterine pressure during the treatment cycle 
and correction of the retroversion may help to improve treatment success in 
thermal balloon endometrial ablation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(03)01176-2
PMID: 14607584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Haematologica. 2003 Nov;88(11):1204-12.

Circulating hematopoietic progenitor cells predict survival in patients with 
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.

Sagaster V(1), Jäger E, Weltermann A, Schwarzinger I, Gisslinger H, Lechner K, 
Geissler K, Oehler L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Hematology, University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The levels of circulating hematopoietic progenitor 
cells are often increased in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM). The 
prognostic relevance of this phenomenon is largely unknown.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We determined the number of circulating myeloid (CFU-GM), 
erythroid (BFU-E), and pluripotent (CFU-GEMM) progenitors, in 110 patients with 
MMM at diagnosis using a semi-solid colony assay. Overall survival was 
investigated by plots of the Kaplan-Meier estimator; known risk factors and the 
number of circulating progenitor cells were tested by univariate and multiple 
Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis showed that hemoglobin concentration (p=0.019), 
CFU-GM (p< 0.0001), BFU-E (p=0.002), and age (p=0.002) predicted survival. 
Numbers of circulating CFU-GM above the 75th percentile were associated with a 
significantly shorter survival than were CFU-GM levels at or below the 75th 
percentile (27 vs. 74 months, p=0.0007). Similarly, high numbers of BFU-E in 
peripheral blood (> 75th percentile) predicted a shorter survival (33 vs. 74 
months; p=0.007). When myeloid and erythroid progenitor cells were calculated 
separately in the multiple Cox regression analysis, both CFU-GM (hazard ratio 
2.8, 95% CI, 1.35 to 5.93) and BFU-E (hazard ratio 2.57, 95% CI, 1.26 to 5.21) 
numbers above the 75th percentile were independent adverse prognostic factors in 
our patients.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: High levels of circulating myeloid and erythroid 
progenitor cells are novel risks factors in patients with MMM. The assessment of 
hematopoietic progenitor cells may be useful to determine risk-adjusted 
treatment strategies.

PMID: 14607748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Haematologica. 2003 Nov;88(11):1272-8.

Long-term disease-free survival in patients with angioimmunoblastic T-cell 
lymphoma after high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation.

Schetelig J(1), Fetscher S, Reichle A, Berdel WE, Beguin Y, Brunet S, Caballero 
D, Majolino I, Hagberg H, Johnsen HE, Kimby E, Montserrat E, Stewart D, 
Copplestone A, Rösler W, Pavel J, Kingreen D, Siegert W.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin m. S. Hämatologie und Onkologie, Humboldt 
Universität, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Patients with angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma 
(AIL) have a poor prognosis with conventional treatment.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We initiated an EBMT-based survey studying the impact of 
high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) and autologous hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation in patients with AIL. Data on 29 patients, who were transplanted 
between 1992 and 1998 in 16 transplant centers, were collected on standardized 
documentation forms.
RESULTS: The median age at transplantation was 53 years. HDCT was given as part 
of 1st-line therapy (N=14; 48%) or 2nd/3rd-line therapy (N=15; 52%). Regimens 
for the mobilization of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) included VIPE (N=7; 
26%), DexaBEAM (N=6; 22%), CHOP-like regimens (N=6; 22%), other regimens (N=5; 
19%) or alternatively growth factor alone (N=3; 11%). The median yield of PBSC 
was 3.8x106 CD34+cells/kg. Two patients received autologous bone marrow. The 
HDCT consisted of BEAM-type regimens in 16 patients, ICE-type regimens in 7, and 
other regimens in 6 patients. There was one treatment-related death. The rate of 
complete remissions increased from 45% before HDCT to 76% after HDCT. As of 
January 2003, after a median observation time of living patients of 5 years 
(range 2.5 to 10 years), 14 patients have died (13 from progressive disease), 
and 15 patients are alive. The probability of 5-year overall and event-free 
survival was 44% (95% CI, 22% to 66%) and 37% (95% CI, 17% to 57%), 
respectively. Long-term disease-free survival was observed in patients 
transplanted during 1st-line treatment as well as in the context of 2nd/3rd-line 
therapy.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that AIL is susceptible to 
high-dose chemotherapy. HDCT and autologous stem cell transplantation should be 
considered in selected patients with AIL.

PMID: 14607756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. J Nutr. 2003 Nov;133(11):3610-3. doi: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3610.

Lifespan is prolonged in autoimmune-prone (NZB/NZW) F1 mice fed a diet 
supplemented with indole-3-carbinol.

Auborn KJ(1), Qi M, Yan XJ, Teichberg S, Chen D, Madaio MP, Chiorazzi N.

Author information:
(1)North Shore-Long Island Jewish Research Institute, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA. 
kauborn@nshs.edu

Dietary modulation has the potential to prevent or ameliorate systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE). Indole-3-carbinol (I3C), which is abundant in cruciferous 
vegetables, was evaluated in a murine model of SLE because of its antiestrogenic 
activities. Female (NZB x NZW) F1 mice, which develop SLE, were fed an AIN76A 
diet without or with 0.2 g/kg I3C, starting soon after weaning or at 5 mo of 
age. At 12 mo of age, 80% of mice fed the I3C-supplemented diet soon after 
weaning were alive compared with only 10% of controls. When experimental diets 
were initiated at 5 mo of age, 100% of I3C fed mice and 30% of controls were 
alive at 12 mo of age. Anti-double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) antibodies developed in 
all groups, although at several time points, the levels produced in I3C-fed mice 
were significantly lower. Renal disease (proteinuria, histologic changes, IgG 
immune complex deposition, subepithelial deposits and diffuse epithelial cell 
foot process effacement) was more severe in controls with both protocols. The 
estrogen urinary metabolite ratio of 2- to 16alpha-hydroxyestrone was increased 
in I3C-fed mice. These findings demonstrate a profound effect of dietary I3C in 
experimental SLE.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/133.11.3610
PMID: 14608082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Arthroscopy. 2003 Nov;19(9):963-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arthro.2003.09.009.

Partial meniscectomy in the presence of severe osteoarthritis does not hasten 
the symptomatic progression of osteoarthritis.

Pearse EO(1), Craig DM.

Author information:
(1)Worthing and Southlands National Health Service Trust, Worthing Hospital, 
Worthing, West Sussex, UK England. YemiPearse@aol.com

PURPOSE: This study had 2 aims: to determine whether arthroscopic partial 
meniscectomy improved symptoms in patients with a torn meniscus and severe 
degenerative change and to determine whether meniscectomy hastened the 
symptomatic progression of osteoarthritis in these patients.
TYPE OF STUDY: An outcome study.
METHODS: The study group consisted of 126 patients with Outerbridge grade IV 
degeneration (exposed bone) in the same compartment as a meniscal tear. These 
patients underwent arthroscopic partial meniscectomy. The control group 
consisted of 13 patients with exposed bone in the tibiofemoral compartment but 
intact menisci. They underwent washout. Data were obtained from a database of 
over 3,000 consecutive arthroscopies, patient medical records, and patients 
directly. Outcome was assessed a minimum of 12 months after surgery.
RESULTS: Meniscectomy improved symptoms initially in 82 cases (65%). At a median 
of 52 months after meniscectomy, 41 patients (32%) had undergone further surgery 
(39 total knee arthroplasty, 1 unicompartmental knee arthroplasty, and 1 tibial 
osteotomy). Fifty patients (40%) reported subjective improvement. The subjective 
outcome assessment by patients was consistent with patient activity, use of 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and the Lysholm score. Meniscectomy did 
not hasten the progression of osteoarthritis because more patients required 
joint replacement after washout (P =.04), and the mean time to further surgery 
was greater for meniscectomy than for washout (74 months [standard error, 4.11] 
and 50 months [standard error, 12.3], respectively, P =.067).
CONCLUSIONS: Arthroscopic partial meniscectomy in the presence of Outerbridge 
grade IV degenerative change is likely to improve symptoms initially in patients 
with symptomatic meniscal tears and may provide lasting benefit. It does not 
appear to hasten the progression of the osteoarthritis in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arthro.2003.09.009
PMID: 14608315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2003 Sep-Oct;77(5):581-94.

[Characteristics and analysis of survival of people served in the program of 
home care from the basic health area of Raval Nord, Barcelona, 1993-2002].

[Article in Spanish]

Segura Noguera JM(1), Bastida Bastús N, Martí Guadaño N, Riba Romeva M, Marsá 
Cantero M, Lancho Lancho S.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Atención Primaria Dr. Lluís Sayé, Equipo de Atención Primaria Raval 
Nord, Ciutat Vella, Barcelona.

BACKGROUND: Longer life expectancy has led to a progressive aging of the 
population and to growing sociosanitary homecare. This study is aimed at 
describing the population of patients suffering from chronic diseases having 
been provided with homecare throughout the first ten years that homecare was 
available by a primary care team at an urban Healthcare Center, to study how 
often this type of care was used and to analyze the survival of those 
individuals having been provided with this care.
METHODS: A descriptive study. The subjects under study were 1,357 
chronically-ill patients included from the very start of a homecare program (May 
1994-December 2002). Firstly, a descriptive analysis was made the main 
characteristics of this population. Afterward, using Cox's proportional hazards 
model, the factors linked to survival were assessed, as well as having plotted 
the corresponding cumulative survival probability curves using the Kaplan-Meier 
method.
RESULTS: Predominant female population (68%), and an average age of 82 (DE: 11 
years). Worth of special note were the lack of elevators (76%) and loneliness 
(18%). Eleven percent (11%) of the patients were totally dependent for all of 
their daily living activities, whilst approximately 20% revealed severe 
cognitive disorders. With regard to the homecare, the program target of 2-3 
visits/patient/year for the medical staff and off 4-6 visits/patient/year for 
the nursing staff were surpassed. The flu vaccine injections were always above 
the 70% target, whilst the tetanus vaccine injections increased yearly.
CONCLUSIONS: The population cared for under this program is characterized by 
being greatly aged, with a high death rate and requiring continuous homecare. 
During the ten years studied, most of the objectives previously set were 
achieved.

PMID: 14608961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Drugs. 2003;63(22):2427-34; discussion 2435-6. doi: 
10.2165/00003495-200363220-00006.

Miglustat.

McCormack PL(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Miglustat is an orally administered ceramide glucosyltransferase inhibitor which 
prevents the lysosomal accumulation of glucocerebroside that occurs in patients 
with Gaucher's disease. In noncomparative trials in patients with type 1 
Gaucher's disease, miglustat (50 or 100mg three times daily) for 6-12 months 
significantly reduced baseline liver and spleen volumes. At both 6 and 12 
months, the reductions in organ volumes were greater with the higher dosage. 
Miglustat 50 or 100mg three times daily for 6-12 months had no significant 
effect on haemoglobin concentrations. Baseline platelet counts were not 
significantly improved by either dosage at 6 months, although the higher dosage 
significantly increased platelet counts at 12 months. In an open extension 
phase, patients continued to show further reductions in organ volume as well as 
significant improvements in haematological parameters at 24 and 36 months. black 
triangle In a 6-month randomised study in patients with type 1 Gaucher's disease 
who had previously received long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT), liver 
volume reduction was greater with miglustat plus ERT than with ERT alone. 
Diarrhoea and weight loss were the most frequent adverse events associated with 
miglustat therapy. Fine tremor has been reported in approximately 30% of 
miglustat-treated patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200363220-00006
PMID: 14609352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Drugs. 2003;63(22):2501-20. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200363220-00015.

Inhaled tobramycin (TOBI): a review of its use in the management of Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Cheer SM(1), Waugh J, Noble S.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Specifically formulated for nebulisation using the PARI LC PLUS reusable 
nebuliser, tobramycin solution for inhalation (TSI) [TOBI] provides a high dose 
of tobramycin (an aminoglycoside antibacterial with good activity against 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa) to the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis, while 
maintaining low serum concentrations of the drug, thus reducing the risk of 
systemic toxicity. Intermittent (28-day on/28-day off) treatment with TSI 300 mg 
twice daily significantly (p < 0.001) improved lung function and sputum P. 
aeruginosa density compared with placebo (randomised double-blind trials), and 
was significantly (p = 0.008) more effective than colistin for improvement in 
forced expiratory volume in 1 second (small nonblind trial) in patients aged > 
or =6 years with cystic fibrosis and chronic P. aeruginosa infection. 
Improvements in lung function were most marked in adolescent patients (aged 
13-17 years) in placebo-controlled trials. Improvements were maintained for up 
to 96 weeks in patients in an open-label extension study. Fewer TSI than placebo 
recipients required parenteral antipseudomonal agents or hospitalisation. In 
addition, TSI 300 mg twice daily for 28 days reduced P. aeruginosa density in 
the lower airways of patients aged <6 years with early colonisation and cystic 
fibrosis, although TSI is not currently indicated in this patient group. A 
decrease in tobramycin susceptibility of P. aeruginosa isolates and an increase 
in fungal organisms (Candida albicans and Aspergillus species) during prolonged 
intermittent treatment with TSI 300 mg twice daily was not associated with 
adverse clinical outcome. There was no evidence of selection for the most 
resistant isolates. TSI is generally well tolerated, with no renal toxicity or 
hearing loss in clinical trials, although transient mild or moderate tinnitus 
occurred more frequently in TSI than placebo recipients. Bronchospasm after 
administration of TSI was transient and occurred with a similar incidence to 
that with placebo; TSI is preservative free and specifically formulated for the 
lung in terms of osmolality and pH. In conclusion, TSI provides an effective 
means of delivering tobramycin to the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis 
with chronic P. aeruginosa infection, improving lung function and sputum P. 
aeruginosa density in these patients without the nephrotoxicity or ototoxicity 
of parenteral aminoglycosides. Further data on the potential for and clinical 
significance of increased tobramycin resistance and fungal colonisation during 
TSI treatment would be beneficial, as would longer-term data. In the meantime, 
TSI represents a valuable option for suppressive antipseudomonal therapy in 
patients with cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200363220-00015
