PMID: 14609360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(35):iii-iv, xi-xiii, 1-170. doi:
10.3310/hta7350.

Systematic review and economic decision modelling for the prevention and 
treatment of influenza A and B.

Turner D(1), Wailoo A, Nicholson K, Cooper N, Sutton A, Abrams K.

Author information:
(1)Trent Institute for Health Services Research, University of Leicester, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish the clinical and cost-effectiveness of amantadine, 
oseltamivir and zanamivir compared to standard care for the treatment and 
prevention of influenza.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases. Reference lists of identified articles and 
key publications. Relevant trials.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis of the randomised evidence 
was undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of oseltamivir and zanamivir 
compared to standard care for treatment and prophylaxis use for influenza A and 
B. An additional systematic review of the effectiveness of amantadine for 
treatment and prophylaxis use for influenza A in children and the elderly was 
also undertaken. Economic decision models were constructed to examine the 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of the alternative strategies for treating 
and preventing influenza A and/or B. This was informed by the systematic reviews 
outlined above and additional sources of information where required.
RESULTS: The systematic review of the treatment of influenza found that 
oseltamivir reduced the median duration of symptoms in the influenza positive 
group by 1.38 days for the otherwise healthy adult population, 0.5 day for the 
high-risk population, and 1.5 days for the children population. This compared to 
1.26 days, 1.99 days, and 1.3 for the similar groups for inhaled zanamivir. The 
systematic review of the prevention of influenza found that the relative risk 
reduction for oseltamivir was between approximately 75 and 90% and approximately 
70 and 90% for inhaled zanamivir depending on the strategy adopted and the 
population under consideration. For the economic model a base case was 
constructed that focussed primarily on the health benefits generated by 
shortening the period of influenza illness. This base case found that, compared 
to standard care, the estimated cost per quality-adjusted life year ranged from 
pound 6190 to pound 31,529 for healthy adults, from pound 4535 to pound 22,502 
for the 'high-risk' group, from pound 6117 to pound 30,825 for children, and 
from pound 5057 to pound 21,781 for the residential care elderly population. The 
base case model included valuations of the health effects of pneumonia (and 
otitis media in the children's model) based on observed rates in the trials. 
However it does not include the cost of hospitalisations as only very limited 
data was available for the effects of antivirals on hospitalisation rates. As 
for mortality rates, deaths from influenza were rare in trials of neuraminidase 
inhibitors (NIs). Therefore, suitable data on mortality were not available from 
these sources. As avoided hospitalisation costs and avoided mortality are 
potentially important we also carried out sensitivity analysis that involved 
extrapolating the observed reductions in pneumonias in the NI trials to 
hospitalisations and deaths. In all four models the cost-effectiveness of NIs is 
substantially improved by this extrapolation. For prophylaxis, antiviral drugs 
were compared with vaccination as preventative strategies. In all cases the 
cost-effectiveness ratios for vaccination were either low or cost-saving. In the 
base case the cost-effectiveness of antivirals was relatively unfavourable, 
there were scenarios relating to the elderly residential care model where 
antivirals as an additional strategy could be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness varies markedly between the intervention 
strategies and target populations. The estimate of cost effectiveness is also 
sensitive to variations in certain key parameters of the model, for example the 
proportion of all influenza-like illnesses that are influenza. The effectiveness 
literature that was used to inform the economic decision model spans many 
decades and hence great caution should be exercised when interpreting the 
results of indirect intervention comparisons from the model. Further randomised 
trials making direct comparisons would be valuable to verify the model's 
findings.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7350
PMID: 14609480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Health Technol Assess. 2003;7(33):iii, ix-x, 1-157. doi: 10.3310/hta7330.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of new and emerging technologies for early 
localised prostate cancer: a systematic review.

Hummel S(1), Paisley S, Morgan A, Currie E, Brewer N.

Author information:
(1)The School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of new and emerging 
technologies for early, localised prostate cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases, reference lists of relevant articles and 
various health services research-related resources.
REVIEW METHODS: A list of new and emerging technologies was identified and 
agreed. A systematic review was undertaken and selected studies were reviewed 
against a set of criteria. An economic model was developed and used to compare 
the specified newer treatments with the traditional approaches.
RESULTS: For neoadjuvant hormonal therapy, no evidence of benefit was seen in 
terms of biochemical disease-free survival. For adjuvant hormonal therapy, there 
was no evidence of benefit in terms of survival, but some conflicting evidence 
that higher risk patients may benefit. The largest number of studies reported 
results for brachytherapy, where some evidence suggested that it may be more 
effective than standard treatments for lower risk patients, although less 
effective for intermediate- and high-risk patients, in terms of biochemical 
disease-free survival. Lower quality evidence reported fewer complications than 
for standard treatments. Higher quality evidence suggested that disease-specific 
quality of life (QoL) for brachytherapy patients was lower than for patients 
receiving standard treatments. The review of three-dimensional conformal 
radiotherapy (3D-CRT) considered treatment-related morbidity, where 
significantly fewer gastrointestinal complications occurred than with standard 
radiotherapy. It was suggested that higher radiation doses achieved better 
disease control, although patient characteristics were often reported as 
independent indicators of control. The review of intensity-modulated conformal 
radiotherapy suggested that late gastrointestinal toxicity may be reduced 
compared with 3D-CRT. For cryotherapy, high rates of impotence were reported. 
Owing to the paucity and poor quality of evidence identified for other 
interventions, conclusions regarding their clinical effectiveness cannot be 
drawn. Cost-effectiveness estimates were based on the impact of adverse events 
on quality-adjusted life-years and the assessment was restricted to 
brachytherapy, 3D-CRT and cryotherapy compared with standard treatments. Of the 
new treatments included, only cryotherapy appeared not to be potentially 
cost-effective compared with traditional treatments, owing to the associated 
high incidence of impotence.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the clinical effectiveness review should be viewed 
in the context of the quality of the available evidence. Very few randomised 
controlled trials (RCTs) were identified, with the majority of included studies 
being descriptive case series, open to patient selection bias and measuring 
surrogate end-points with short-term follow-up. It is difficult therefore to 
draw conclusions on the relative benefits or otherwise of the newer technologies 
owing to the lack of substantive evidence of any quality and the lack of 
comparisons between the newer technologies and with standard treatments. Given 
the lack of high-quality clinical evidence with long-term follow-up and the 
uncertainty surrounding the assumptions in the economic analysis, the following 
areas are recommended for further research: RCTs with sufficient follow-up to 
measure benefits in terms of overall survival to include QoL measurement to 
establish trade-offs between potential adverse events and benefits of treatment; 
the identification of prognostic risk factors among men diagnosed with early 
prostate cancer; QoL studies to compare the utility of health states among 
patients on active monitoring, patients receiving treatment and the comparable 
healthy population; the relationship between surrogate end-points and survival; 
and the adoption of standard definitions for adverse events.

DOI: 10.3310/hta7330
PMID: 14609482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Arch Intern Med. 2003 Nov 10;163(20):2448-55. doi:
10.1001/archinte.163.20.2448.

Body mass index in middle age and health-related quality of life in older age: 
the Chicago heart association detection project in industry study.

Daviglus ML(1), Liu K, Yan LL, Pirzada A, Garside DB, Schiffer L, Dyer AR, 
Greenland P, Stamler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, The Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. daviglus@northwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: Overweight and obesity are associated with higher morbidity and 
shorter life expectancy, but the effect of body mass index (BMI) (calculated as 
weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) ascertained 
during middle age on subsequent quality of life among older survivors is 
unknown. This study evaluates whether BMI in middle age is related to 
health-related quality of life in older age.
METHODS: This prospective cohort of adults from the Chicago Heart Association 
Detection Project in Industry included 6766 middle-aged men and women, aged 36 
to 64 years, without diabetes mellitus or myocardial infarction at baseline 
(November 7, 1967-January 8, 1973), who completed a 26-year follow-up 
questionnaire in 1996 when they were 65 years and older. Relationships of 
baseline BMI (categories: normal weight, overweight, and obese) to mean 26-year 
follow-up Health Status Questionnaire 12 scores (measuring physical, mental, and 
social well-being) were assessed.
RESULTS: For men and women, BMI had significant inverse-graded associations with 
all Health Status Questionnaire 12 scores (P<.01 for trend for all). Scores 
(adjusted for baseline cardiovascular disease risk factors and 1996 age) were 
highest (best) in normal-weight individuals (BMI, 18.5-<25.0) and decreased 
significantly (P range,.006-<.001 for trend) with higher BMI, with worst 
outcomes for obese persons (BMI, >or=30.0). A higher multivariate-adjusted 
percentage of normal-weight persons reported excellent or very good health 
compared with overweight and obese persons: for women, 46.8% vs 37.9% and 24.3%; 
and for men, 53.8% vs 49.1% and 36.5% (P<.001 for trend).
CONCLUSIONS: A higher BMI in middle age is associated with a poorer quality of 
life in older age. Preventive measures may lessen the burden of disease and 
impaired quality of life associated with excess weight.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.163.20.2448
PMID: 14609781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Arch Intern Med. 2003 Nov 10;163(20):2460-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.163.20.2460.

Favorable cardiovascular risk profile in middle age and health-related quality 
of life in older age.

Daviglus ML(1), Liu K, Pirzada A, Yan LL, Garside DB, Feinglass J, Guralnik JM, 
Greenland P, Stamler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University, Feinberg School 
of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. daviglus@northwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is greater for people with favorable midlife 
cardiovascular risk profiles (ie, low risk). However, some speculate that 
increased longevity may lead to large numbers of ill, disabled, older persons 
with lower quality of life. Few data exist on this important issue. This study 
evaluates the relationship of midlife low-risk status to quality of life and 
illness in older age.
METHODS: Cohort of middle-aged adults from the Chicago Heart Association 
Detection Project in Industry (2692 women and 3650 men; baseline ages, 36-64 
years [average age, 73.2 years in 1996]) without baseline (1967-1973) major 
electrocardiographic abnormalities or history of diabetes or myocardial 
infarction. Quality of life (12-item Health Status Questionnaire [HSQ-12] on 
physical, mental, and social well-being) and self-reported diseases were 
assessed after 26 years of follow-up. Baseline risk strata included low risk 
(favorable blood pressure and serum cholesterol levels, no smoking, and no minor 
electrocardiographic abnormalities); 0 risk factors (ie, no high risk factors 
but >or=1 risk factors not at favorable levels); or any 1, any 2, or 3 or more 
of the following 4 risk factors: high blood pressure, high serum cholesterol 
level, smoking, and minor electrocardiographic abnormalities. The HSQ-12 scores 
and disease outcomes for low risk were compared with other strata.
RESULTS: Adjusted scores for physical, mental, social functioning, and 
disease-free outcomes were highest for low-risk individuals and decreased 
significantly with number of risk factors (eg, 58% of low-risk women had 
excellent/very good health compared with 28% of women with >or=3 risk factors).
CONCLUSIONS: Favorable cardiovascular risk profile in middle age is associated 
with better quality of life and lower risk of diseases in older age. Moreover, 
the fewer the risk factors, the higher the quality of life.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.163.20.2460
PMID: 14609782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Rofo. 2003 Nov;175(11):1482-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-43399.

[Marfan syndrome: pathogenesis, phenotypes and diagnostic value, of various 
imaging techniques].

[Article in German]

Dieckmann C(1), Von Kodolitsch Y, Rybczynski M, Adam G.

Author information:
(1)Radiologisches Zentrum, Klinik und Poliklinik für Diagnostische und 
Interventionelle Radiologie, Hamburg. dieckmann@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder with autosomal dominant inheritance. It is 
caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene and leads to different disease 
manifestations. Seventy-five percent of the affected individuals develop an 
aneurysm of the ascending aorta, 41 % suffer from aortic dissections, and 93 % 
die of cardiovascular diseases. Skeletal changes occur in two-thirds of the 
patients, and lens dislocation is observed in 60 to 80 %. Without treatment, the 
life expectancy is 32 +/- 16 years. However, Marfan patients can live up to 60 
years if they receive optimal therapy. Early diagnosis of the disease and it 's 
life-threatening sequelae is the prerequisite for early therapy. Radiologic 
diagnostic techniques are of pivotal importance in this context as they allow 
the identification of major and minor disease manifestations and the detection 
of severe dilatations and aortic dissections at an early stage. This overview 
describes the radiologically detectable multiple changes seen in Marfan syndrome 
and explains the diagnostic value of various imaging techniques in the diagnosis 
and therapy of Marfan syndrome.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-43399
PMID: 14610698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Manag Care Pharm. 2003 Jul-Aug;9(4):353-9. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2003.9.4.353.

The economic impact of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in the United 
States and Canada: a literature review.

Halpern MT(1), Higashi MK, Bakst AW, Schmier JK.

Author information:
(1)Exponent Inc, Alexandria, VA 22314, USA. mhalpern@exponent.com

BACKGROUND: Acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) are recurrent and 
potentially severe medical events for the 13 million people in the United States 
who have chronic bronchitis. Medical resource use associated with AECB can have 
a substantial economic impact on the patients, health care system, and society 
overall.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate literature on the economic impact of AECB in terms of 
cost of illness, cost of treatments, and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A MEDLINE literature search was conducted for studies of chronic 
bronchitis and costs. Reference lists of identified articles were also retrieved 
for review.
RESULTS: Eight published studies were identified: 2 cost-of-illness studies, 1 
comparative cost study, and 5 cost-effectiveness studies. Important drivers of 
costs associated with AECB include hospitalization and choice of antibiotics. In 
mild to moderate AECB, patient adherence with therapy is essential to consider 
when selecting treatment. The antibiotic with the lowest acquisition cost has 
not been shown to be the most cost effective, as adherence and clinical 
outcomes, particularly rehospitalization rates, differ.
CONCLUSION: Further research in these areas is needed to guide clinical decision 
making and the conduct of disease management programs.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2003.9.4.353
PMCID: PMC10437276
PMID: 14613454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2003 Nov 3;1:64. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-64.

The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS): from joint injury to 
osteoarthritis.

Roos EM(1), Lohmander LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Lund University Hospital, SE-221 85 Lund, Sweden. 
Ewa.Roos@ort.lu.se

The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) was developed as an 
extension of the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index with the purpose of evaluating 
short-term and long-term symptoms and function in subjects with knee injury and 
osteoarthritis. The KOOS holds five separately scored subscales: Pain, other 
Symptoms, Function in daily living (ADL), Function in Sport and Recreation 
(Sport/Rec), and knee-related Quality of Life (QOL). The KOOS has been validated 
for several orthopaedic interventions such as anterior cruciate ligament 
reconstruction, meniscectomy and total knee replacement. In addition the 
instrument has been used to evaluate physical therapy, nutritional 
supplementation and glucosamine supplementation. The effect size is generally 
largest for the subscale QOL followed by the subscale Pain. The KOOS is a valid, 
reliable and responsive self-administered instrument that can be used for 
short-term and long-term follow-up of several types of knee injury including 
osteoarthritis. The measure is relatively new and further use of the instrument 
will add knowledge and suggest areas that need to be further explored and 
improved.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-64
PMCID: PMC280702
PMID: 14613558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2003 Oct 16;1:54. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-54.

The Health Utilities Index (HUI): concepts, measurement properties and 
applications.

Horsman J(1), Furlong W, Feeny D, Torrance G.

Author information:
(1)Health Utilities Inc, Dundas, ON, Canada. horsmanj@mcmaster.ca

This is a review of the Health Utilities Index (HUI) multi-attribute 
health-status classification systems, and single- and multi-attribute utility 
scoring systems. HUI refers to both HUI Mark 2 (HUI2) and HUI Mark 3 (HUI3) 
instruments. The classification systems provide compact but comprehensive 
frameworks within which to describe health status. The multi-attribute utility 
functions provide all the information required to calculate single-summary 
scores of health-related quality of life (HRQL) for each health state defined by 
the classification systems. The use of HUI in clinical studies for a wide 
variety of conditions in a large number of countries is illustrated. HUI 
provides comprehensive, reliable, responsive and valid measures of health status 
and HRQL for subjects in clinical studies. Utility scores of overall HRQL for 
patients are also used in cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analyses. 
Population norm data are available from numerous large general population 
surveys. The widespread use of HUI facilitates the interpretation of results and 
permits comparisons of disease and treatment outcomes, and comparisons of 
long-term sequelae at the local, national and international levels.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-1-54
PMCID: PMC293474
PMID: 14613568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2003 Oct;111(7):405-14. doi:
10.1055/s-2003-44287.

Risk of hypoglycaemia with oral antidiabetic agents in patients with Type 2 
diabetes.

Holstein A(1), Egberts EH.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Medicine, Klinikum Lippe-Detmold, Detmold, Germany. 
Andreas.Holstein@t-online.de

In patients with Type 2 diabetes, the appropriate intensity of glucose control 
is determined by age, life expectancy, and the presence of concomitant disease. 
Geriatric patients are especially susceptible to hypoglycaemia and therefore 
particular care should be taken in this group characterized by polypharmacy, 
renal or hepatic dysfunction, cardiovascular multimorbidity and malnutrition. As 
hypoglycaemia is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality, treatment 
regimens for diabetes should minimize the occurrence of hypoglycaemic episodes 
and be tailored to the patient's individual needs. The pharmacological options 
for treating Type 2 diabetes have increased considerably and the risk of 
hypoglycaemia of the currently available drugs varies considerably. Metformin, 
thiazolidinediones, and acarbose, oral antidiabetic drugs that decrease insulin 
resistance or postprandial glucose absorption, are associated with a low risk of 
hypoglycaemia. These drugs can also be used effectively in various combination 
regimens; however, by improving insulin sensitivity, combinations of metformin 
and thiolidinediones with sulphonylureas or meglitinides may considerably 
increase the risk of hypoglycaemia. On account of its complex pharmacoprofile 
glibenclamide is a problematic substance carrying a high risk of hypoglycaemia. 
There are limited preliminary data indicating that, under routine conditions, 
glimepiride may be associated with a lower risk of hypoglycaemia than 
glibenclamide and is no more likely to cause hypoglycaemia than other 
shorter-acting agents such as gliclazide and glipizide. Nateglinide and 
repaglinide as short-acting insulin secretagogues may be associated with a 
reduced risk of hypoglycaemia compared with glibenclamide, in particular when 
dosed flexibly. Repaglinide might be beneficial in individuals with renal 
impairment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-44287
PMID: 14614647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. BMJ. 2003 Nov 15;327(7424):1129. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7424.1129.

Measuring the health of nations: analysis of mortality amenable to health care.

Nolte E(1), McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT. ellen.nolte@lshtm.ac.uk

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2004 Feb 28;328(7438):494.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether and how the rankings of the world's health systems 
based on disability adjusted life expectancy as done in the 2000 World Health 
Report change when using the narrower concept of mortality amenable to health 
care, an outcome more closely linked to health system performance.
DESIGN: Analysis of mortality amenable to health care (including and excluding 
ischaemic heart disease).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Age standardised mortality from causes amenable to health 
care
SETTING: 19 countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and 
Development.
RESULTS: Rankings based on mortality amenable to health care (excluding 
ischaemic heart disease) differed substantially from rankings of health 
attainment given in the 2000 World Health Report. No country retained the same 
position. Rankings for southern European countries and Japan, which had 
performed well in the report, fell sharply, whereas those of the Nordic 
countries improved. Some middle ranking countries (United Kingdom, Netherlands) 
also fell considerably; New Zealand improved its position. Rankings changed when 
ischaemic heart disease was included as amenable to health care.
CONCLUSION: The 2000 World Health Report has been cited widely to support claims 
for the merits of otherwise different health systems. High levels of health 
attainment in well performing countries may be a consequence of good fortune in 
geography, and thus dietary habits, and success in the health effects of 
policies in other sectors. When assessed in terms of achievements that are more 
explicitly linked to health care, their performance may not be as good.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7424.1129
PMCID: PMC261807
PMID: 14615335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Science. 2003 Nov 14;302(5648):1172-5. doi: 10.1126/science.1088665.

Human population: the next half century.

Cohen JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Rockefeller University and Columbia University, 1230 New York Avenue, Box 20, 
New York, NY 10021, USA. cohen@rockefeller.edu

By 2050, the human population will probably be larger by 2 to 4 billion people, 
more slowly growing (declining in the more developed regions), more urban, 
especially in less developed regions, and older than in the 20th century. Two 
major demographic uncertainties in the next 50 years concern international 
migration and the structure of families. Economies, nonhuman environments, and 
cultures (including values, religions, and politics) strongly influence 
demographic changes. Hence, human choices, individual and collective, will have 
demographic effects, intentional or otherwise.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1088665
PMID: 14615528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Acta Neurol Scand. 2003 Dec;108(6):435-42. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0404.2003.00168.x.

The impact of ageing on stroke subtypes, length of stay and mortality: study in 
the province of Teruel, Spain.

Modrego PJ(1), Pina MA, Lerín FJ.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Hospital del INSALUD de Alcañiz, Spain. 
pmodrego@halc.insalud.es

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: During the last three decades, there have been important 
advances in the diagnosis and treatment of stroke leading to a decline in 
mortality rates in western countries. However, the longer life expectancy and 
the higher proportion of elderly people in the structure of the population may 
partially counteract this positive trend in stroke-related mortality. The 
purpose of this study was to analyse the impact of a high ageing index of the 
population on stroke-related variables such as stroke subtypes, length of 
hospital stay and mortality from stroke.
METHODS: We analysed the data of 1850 consecutive patients with first-ever 
stroke retrieved from a prospective registry over a period of 8 years 
(1994-2001) in the province of Teruel, Spain, with two public hospitals in the 
catchment area. The mean age was 75.5 years (SD: 9.4) and the sex was male in 
62% of cases. The variables included in the study were vascular risk factors, 
stroke subtypes, fatality rate, length of stay and mortality. Mortality was 
assessed from 1990 to 2000.
RESULTS: Arterial hypertension and atrial fibrillation were the most frequent 
risk factors, with an observed high frequency of cardioembolic stroke. The mean 
28-day case fatality rate was 16.6%, ranging from 11.9% in 1994 to 23.4% in 
1999. We found complications in 38% of patients, especially in the elderly. 
Fatality occurred in 20.3% of elderly subjects (65 or over) in comparison to 
7.25% for those younger (Relative risk: 2.8; 95% CI: 1.475.3). Crude mortality 
rates were higher than for the general population in Spain and ranged from 169 
in 1991 to 139/100,000 in 2000 with higher rates for women. However, the 
age-adjusted mortality rate to the standard European population was 56.6/100,000 
(95% CI: 4664) in 1999, which was similar to that found in Spain (61/100,000).
CONCLUSIONS: The impact of ageing on case fatality and mortality by stroke was 
substantial. Whereas mortality by stroke stabilized after decreasing in our 
province and in Spain in the last decade, fatality rates have significantly 
increased in our province because of the high proportion of elderly people and 
to the high rate of post-stroke complications.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0404.2003.00168.x
PMID: 14616297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Mol Biol Cell. 2004 Feb;15(2):611-24. doi: 10.1091/mbc.e03-05-0343. Epub
2003  Nov 14.

Rabip4' is an effector of rab5 and rab4 and regulates transport through early 
endosomes.

Fouraux MA(1), Deneka M, Ivan V, van der Heijden A, Raymackers J, van Suylekom 
D, van Venrooij WJ, van der Sluijs P, Pruijn GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Nijmegen Center for Molecular Life Sciences, 
University of Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

We describe the characterization of an 80-kDa protein cross-reacting with a 
monoclonal antibody against the human La autoantigen. The 80-kDa protein is a 
variant of rabip4 with an N-terminal extension of 108 amino acids and is 
expressed in the same cells. For this reason, we named it rabip4'. rabip4' is a 
peripheral membrane protein, which colocalized with internalized transferrin and 
EEA1 on early endosomes. Membrane association required the presence of the FYVE 
domain and was perturbed by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor 
wortmannin. Expression of a dominant negative rabip4' mutant reduced 
internalization and recycling of transferrin from early endosomes, suggesting 
that it may be functionally linked to rab4 and rab5. In agreement with this, we 
found that rabip4' colocalized with the two GTPases on early endosomes and bound 
specifically and simultaneously to the GTP form of both rab4 and rab5. We 
conclude that rabip4' may coordinate the activities of rab4 and rab5, regulating 
membrane dynamics in the early endosomal system.

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.e03-05-0343
PMCID: PMC329268
PMID: 14617813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Biogerontology. 2003;4(5):325-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1026207620132.

A further comment on why the Gompertz plot does not measure aging.

Driver C(1).

Author information:
(1)National Aging Research Institute, P.O. Box 31, Parkville, VIC, 3052 
Australia. c.driver@nari.unimelb.edu.au

Comment on
    Biogerontology. 2002;3(3):187-90.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026207620132
PMID: 14618030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Biogerontology. 2003;4(5):329-34. doi: 10.1023/a:1026269122432.

Continuous remodeling as a key to aging and survival: an interview with Claudio 
Franceschi. Interview by Suresh I S Rattan.

Franceschi C.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026269122432
PMID: 14618031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Neurocytol. 2003 Jan;32(1):25-38. doi: 10.1023/a:1027324230923.

Characterization of three human oligodendroglial cell lines as a model to study 
oligodendrocyte injury: morphology and oligodendrocyte-specific gene expression.

Buntinx M(1), Vanderlocht J, Hellings N, Vandenabeele F, Lambrichts I, Raus J, 
Ameloot M, Stinissen P, Steels P.

Author information:
(1)Biomedisch Onderzoeksinstituut, Limburgs Universitair Centrum and School of 
Life Sciences, Transnational University Limburg, Universitaire Campus A, B-3590 
Diepenbeek, Belgium.

Oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells of the central nervous system, are 
the target of pathogenic immune responses in multiple sclerosis. Primary 
cultures of human oligodendrocytes have been used to unravel the cellular and 
molecular mechanisms of immune-mediated injury of oligodendrocytes. However, 
these studies are hampered by the limited availability of viable human brain 
tissue. The present study was aimed at comparing the morphological and 
biochemical characteristics of the human oligodendroglial cell lines HOG, MO3.13 
and KG-1C. We have determined oligodendrocyte-associated features of these lines 
and analyzed the degree to which they can be used as a model of human 
oligodendrocytes arrested at specific developmental stages. The oligodendroglial 
cell lines all exhibited markers of immature oligodendrocytes, such as CNPase 
and GalC, but not the astrocytic marker GFAP. Differentiation could be induced 
in HOG and MO3.13 cells, as was seen through a decrease in proliferation, an 
increase in process extension without formation of myelin sheets and 
up-regulation of genes associated with mature oligodendrocytes such as MBP and 
MOG. Microarray analysis revealed the expression of MAG, MOBP and OMG genes in 
HOG cells. The KG-1C cells displayed poor growth characteristics in the 
recommended conditions. In conclusion, our data show that the oligodendroglial 
cell lines HOG and MO3.13 can be used as a model of human oligodendrocytes 
"arrested" in an immature developmental stage. Culturing in appropriate medium 
can induce further differentiation of these cells. These cell lines can 
therefore be applied as a model to study immune-mediated injury of 
oligodendrocytes in relation to disease.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1027324230923
PMID: 14618099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2003 Oct;60(10):2254-65. doi: 10.1007/s00018-003-3258-6.

Nuclear localization of mouse fibroblast growth factor 2 requires N-terminal and 
C-terminal sequences.

Foletti A(1), Vuadens F, Beermann F.

Author information:
(1)ISREC (Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research), NCCR Molecular 
Oncology, Chemin des Boveresses 155, 1066 Epalinges s/Lausanne, Switzerland.

In vertebrates, different isoforms of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) exist, 
which differ by their N-terminal extension. They show different localization and 
expression levels and exert distinct biological effects. Nevertheless, genetic 
inactivation of all FGF2 isoforms in the mouse results in only mild phenotypes. 
Here, we analyzed mouse FGF2, and show that, as in the human, mouse FGF2 
contains CTG-initiated high molecular-weight (HMW) isoforms, which contain a 
nuclear localization signal, and which mediate localization of this isoform to 
the nucleus. Using green fluorescent protein-FGF2 fusions, we furthermore 
observed, that C-terminal deletions disable nuclear localization of the short 
low-molecular-weight (LMW) 18-kDa isoform. This loss of specific localization is 
accompanied by a loss in heparin binding. We therefore suggest that, first, 
localization of mouse FGF2 is comparable to that in other vertebrates and, 
second, FGF2 contains at least two sequences important for nuclear localization, 
a nuclear localization sequence at the N terminus which is only contained in the 
HMW isoform, and another sequence at the C terminus, which is only required for 
localization of the LMW 18-kDa isoform.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-003-3258-6
PMID: 14618271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Biofouling. 2003 Apr;19 Suppl:249-54. doi: 10.1080/0892701021000051635.

Wood digestion in Pselactus spadix Herbst--a weevil attacking marine timber 
structures.

Oevering P(1), Pitman AJ, Pandey KK.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Cooperative Extension 669, County Square Dr #100, 
Ventura, CA 93003, USA.

Pselactus spadix tunnels timber structures in the marine environment. Recent 
studies reported a cosmopolitan distribution for this weevil, which is 
frequently found in harbour and port areas. P. spadix feeds on timber (hardwood 
and softwood) in immature and adult life stages, but its digestion of wood 
components had not been investigated. Using dry weight analyses of tunnel walls 
and frass produced, P. spadix adults consumed Scots pine with soft rot decay at 
a rate of 1.59 +/- 0.37 mg d-1 and the digestibility of this substrate was 57.96 
+/- 5.89 (i.e. for 100 mg consumed SR-pine, 58 mg was digested). Using 
gravimetric analysis to quantify structural wood components in tunnel walls and 
frass, P. spadix adults were found to digest cellulose, lignin and hemicellulose 
with digestibility coefficients of 82.2, 41.2 and 14.5 respectively. Fourier 
Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy analyses of tunnel walls and frass of 
adults and larvae from soft rotted pine also indicated digestion of all 
structural components, with larvae digesting cellulose and lignin more 
efficiently than adults. When FTIR was employed to analyse adult tunnel walls 
and frass from undecayed pine, cellulose and hemicellulose were digested, but no 
evidence of lignin digestion was found. This study shows that adults digest 
lignin when soft rot is present and suggests a symbiotic function of wood 
degrading microorganisms.

DOI: 10.1080/0892701021000051635
PMID: 14618727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2002;1(1):33-41.

The value of a statistical life: theoretical and empirical evidence.

Johansson PO(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Box 6501, SE-113 83 Stockholm, Sweden. 
Per-Olov.Johansson@hhs.se

The value of a statistical life is an important concept in health and 
environmental economics. This paper provides definitions of the value of a 
statistical life, and considers single-period and life cycle models. It shows 
how the value of a statistical life can be measured simply in empirical studies, 
and addresses the important age profile issue. Available empirical evidence is 
briefly presented, and recent studies are included that use meta-analysis to 
determine which variables are appropriate to explain the variance of estimates 
of the value of statistical life.

PMID: 14618746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Ugeskr Laeger. 2003 Oct 20;165(43):4112-6.

[Cost-effectiveness of alendronate treatment of osteoporosis in Denmark. An 
economic evaluation based on the Fracture Intervention Trial].

[Article in Danish]

Jönsson L(1), Borgström F, Zethraeus N.

Author information:
(1)Neurotec, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm Health Economics, Centre for 
Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm. 
linus.j@healtheconomics.se

PMID: 14619061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2003 Oct 22;92(43):1815-8. doi: 
10.1024/0369-8394.92.43.1815.

[Morphological and hemodynamic indicators of early arteriosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Frauchiger B(1).

Author information:
(1)Spital Thurgau AG, Medizinische Klinik, Kantonsspital Frauenfeld. 
beat.frauchiger@stgag.ch

DOI: 10.1024/0369-8394.92.43.1815
PMID: 14619213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2002;1(4):191-6.

Accounting for the missing opportunity costs in incremental cost-outcome 
analysis.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

When used to assess the value for money of cost-increasing health care 
interventions, incremental cost-outcome analysis (i.e. cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility analyses) overlooks potentially important opportunity costs. 
Consequently, a reliance on this method in practical decision making may serve 
to sustain otherwise avoidable inefficiencies. To mitigate this problem, a net 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) approach (or, more generally, a net outcome 
approach) to health economic evaluation is recommended. Moreover, existing 
empirical evidence in the experimental economics and psychology literature 
suggests that people will attach a disutility of significantly greater magnitude 
to outcomes that are perceived as losses, than the utility they attach to gains 
of the same absolute size. The net QALY approach ought to be modified to account 
for those circumstances where health outcomes may be valued differentially 
according to whether they are perceived as already 'owned', or as merely 
'potential'. The importance of this modification is discussed here by way of 
example.

PMID: 14619248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2002;1(3):123-8.

Economics and decisions to end life: van Acht and Stooker revisited.

Scuffham PA(1), Taylor MJ.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium Ltd, Level 2, Market Square, University of 
York, York, England YO10 5NH. pas8@york.ac.uk

Comment on
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2002;1(1):10-2.

Debates about euthanasia have tended to exclude any economic arguments. This 
might be due to the narrow perspective of the economic arguments presented to 
date, most of which focus on the health care costs in the last year of life. 
This paper considers the wider economic aspects in decisions to end life, 
including potential methodological weaknesses in measuring costs in the last 
year of life, the costs of euthanasia itself, the value of patient preferences 
and the value (and problems) of choice. Suggestions are made on how these 
economic issues might be explored to take the economic arguments forward.

PMID: 14619262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(2):71-3.

Scientific prioritization: inescapable judgement.

McCulloch D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Politics, University of Ulster, Newtownabbey, 
Northern Ireland.

Comment in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(2):73-6.

PMID: 14619275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(2):73-6.

In the land of blind decision making, is one-eyed economics the king?

Drummond M(1), Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, United Kingdom.

Comment on
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2003;2(2):71-3.

PMID: 14619276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2003 Fall;12(4):372-83. doi: 10.1017/s0963180103124061.

The ethical case against stem cell research.

Holm S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Philosophy and Clinical Theory, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2003 Fall;12(4):384-92.

DOI: 10.1017/s0963180103124061
PMID: 14619369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2003;120(2):375-88; discussion 388-92.

[Functional dyspepsia. The physician and the patient].

[Article in Spanish]

Díaz-Rubio García M.

Functional dyspepsia is defined by the presence of pain/discomfort in the upper 
abdomen without evident of organic disease which explain it; it must not be 
relief by defecation and its onset must not be related to changes in 
freqfrecuentlyuency or consistency feces. Diagnosis also requires pain or 
discomfort to be present for 12 weeks, not necessarily consecutives, in the last 
year. It is classified in three subgroups: ulcer-like, dysmotility-like and 
unspecified). Functional dyspepsia represents not only a diagnostic challenge 
but also a therapeutic problem, since no specific drug is available. An 
appropriate management of functional dyspepsia should consider patient's 
personality, diagnostic work-up, therapeutic alternatives and patient-doctor 
relationship. Many patients "live" their disease as the center of their life, 
sometimes creating great problems to physicians. Doctors should dedicate enough 
time to the patient, show interest in patient's problems, make a rigorous 
physical examination, and perform an appropriate work-up individualized for each 
patient. Regarding therapeutic decisions, it is important to reassure patients 
about the absence of organic disease. However it should be avoid to tell them 
that no disease exist at all; instead, the functional nature of the disease must 
be emphasized, explaining what and how upper GI tract is malfunctioning; 
Patients should know that doctor understand their symptoms are true symptoms; 
also, they must be informed bout the excellent outcome, without changes in life 
expectancy and a natural trend to improve with time; doctor should help patients 
to recognize that emotional situation have a great impact in disease course; and 
a therapeutic plan should be discussed and agreed with patients.

PMID: 14619548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Mol Cell Biochem. 2003 Nov;253(1-2):159-65. doi: 10.1023/a:1026024829294.

Harmful health effects of cigarette smoking.

Das SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, TN 37208, 
USA. sdas@mmc.edu

This is a comprehensive review on the harmful health effects of cigarette 
smoking. Tobacco smoking is a reprehensible habit that has spread all over the 
world as an epidemic. It reduces the life expectancy among smokers. It increases 
overall medical costs and contributes to the loss of productivity during the 
life span. Smoking has been shown to be linked with various neurological, 
cardiovascular, and pulmonary diseases. Cigarette smoke not only affects the 
smokers but also contributes to the health problems of the non-smokers. Exposure 
to environmental tobacco smoke contributes to health problems in children and is 
a significant risk factor for asthma. Cigarette smoke contains several 
carcinogens that alter biochemical defense systems leading to lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026024829294
PMID: 14619966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 2003 Oct;103(10 Suppl 6):S6-11.

Management of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Murphy FT(1), Kivitz AJ, Sands EE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Research, Altoona Arthritis and Osteoporosis Center, 
Meadowbrook Plaza, 1125 Old Route 220 North, Duncansville, PA 16635, USA. 
ftmurphy@pol.net

Postmenopausal osteoporosis is associated with significant morbidity, mortality, 
reduction in quality of life, and increasing health care costs. It is estimated 
that 1.5 million women in the United States have one or more 
osteoporosis-related fractures annually. Fractures may occur at any site, but 
vertebral fractures are the most common. Longitudinal studies have demonstrated 
a decreased life expectancy associated with both vertebral and nonvertebral 
fractures. Once an initial fracture occurs, there is a fivefold increased risk 
of a second fracture within 1 year. The management of osteoporosis today 
incorporates multiple modalities of therapy. In addition to early detection, 
patient education, exercise, and nutritional supplementation, multiple 
therapeutic agents should be implemented early in an attempt to prevent initial 
and subsequent fractures. This article reviews currently approved modalities of 
therapy for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

PMID: 14620079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2003;15(1):10-6. doi: 10.1177/101053950301500103.

Social and functional status of older persons in a north Indian community.

Swami HM(1), Bhatia V, Parashar A, Bhatia SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Chandigarh, 
India. gmchd@Ch1.dot.net.in

With increase in life expectancy, the geriatric population is growing in 
developing countries. The Union Territory of Chandigarh has a population of 
about 0.9 million with nearly 90% in urban and 10% in rural areas. This 
cross-sectional, descriptive study was conducted in Chandigarh over a period of 
one year; 1998-99 among 362 subjects 65 years or more of age covering a 
population of 7937 family members in 1882 houses. The sampling was done by 
random sampling technique covering urban and rural population. The proportion of 
older persons in Chandigarh comprised 5.47% of the population. Most of the 
respondents were living with their spouses. More than one-fifth of urban and two 
third of rural older persons were illiterate. About 86% were living with their 
families and only 3.6% were living alone. Major modes of recreation were 
visiting religious places by two-thirds followed by going to parks and gardens 
by nearly one-fourth. Among 203 older persons having living partners in the 
study, one in every fifth older persons had indulged in sexual intercourse in 
the past six months. Nearly 2% of older persons needed assistance (partial or 
full) in activities of daily living like bathing, dressing, toileting, feeding, 
continence etc. The study also observed rural and urban variation in the use of 
aids and appliances by older persons. On the basis of very few having functional 
limitations, there is a need to include components of recreational facilities, 
activities of daily living, and not just assistance and aids and appliances, 
while developing a comprehensive geriatric health care programme in developing 
countries.

DOI: 10.1177/101053950301500103
PMID: 14620492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Natl Med Assoc. 2003 Oct;95(10):969-73.

Bouveret's syndrome: revisiting gallstone obstruction of the duodenum.

Dan D(1), Collure DW, Hoover EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The State University of New York at Buffalo, 14215, 
USA.

Bouveret's Syndrome is obstruction of the duodenum secondary to an impacted 
gallstone, usually without the presence of pneumobilia. With the steadily 
increasing life expectancy, greater numbers of these cases are being seen. 
Gallstones enter the gastrointestinal tract following fistula formation between 
the gallbladder and an adjacent hollow viscus and may cause obstruction at any 
point along the intestinal tract. Duodenal obstruction is the least common and 
represents only a very small percentage of cases. The presenting signs of nausea 
vomiting, abdominal cramping, and the absence of abdominal distension should 
alert the clinician to pathology in the proximal small bowel. The purpose of 
this report is to heighten the awareness of the primary care physicians, 
emergency room doctors, and surgeons to this diagnosis in elderly patients so 
that it can be included in the differential with the usual causes of gastric 
outlet obstruction--including ulcer disease; neoplasm; gastric volvulus; and 
other enteroliths, such as bezoars. Early diagnosis is critical, as these cases 
require urgent surgical intervention. Early resuscitation, diagnosis, and 
treatment are essential for a successful outcome.

PMCID: PMC2594488
PMID: 14620710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


