9. Am J Health Promot. 2003 Nov-Dec;18(2):146-50. doi:
10.4278/0890-1171-18.2.146.

A vision for health in our new century.

McGinnis JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Route 1 and College Road East, P.O. Box 2316, 
Princeton, NJ 08543, USA. mcginnis@rwjf.org

Our vision of good health is changing. Extraordinary progress was made over the 
course of the 20th century--life expectancy at birth increased by nearly 30 
years and scientific insights revealed that our health fates are determined by 
interacting factors within each of the five major health domains. As life 
expectancies extend far beyond customary notions of old age, attention shifts 
from survival and toward improving the quality of life. Our beliefs about what 
makes for a healthy life are reorienting around a vision of new possibilities, 
in which we take full advantage of what we know about getting each child off to 
the right start; providing all the opportunity for lifelong vitality borne of 
healthy lifestyles; designing safe and nurturing physical environments for our 
communities; assuring that all have access to the kind of medical care they 
need; protecting the isolated or estranged from the illness or injury that often 
accompanies their condition; and providing comfort and choices for all at the 
end of life.

DOI: 10.4278/0890-1171-18.2.146
PMID: 14621410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Eur J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2002 Feb;1(1):23-8. doi:
10.1016/S1474-5151(01)00014-7.

Comprehensive care for adults with congenital heart disease: expanding roles for 
nurses.

Moons P(1), De Geest S, Budts W.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services and Nursing Research, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven, Kapucijnenvoer 35/4, B-3000, Leuven, Belgium. 
philip.moons@med.kuleuven.ac.be

Adults with congenital heart disease constitute a growing patient population. 
Although life expectancy of these patients is increasing, they may be confronted 
with specific medical, psychosocial and behavioural problems throughout their 
life span. Special attention needs to be given to patients' illness experiences; 
knowledge and health behaviour; employability and insurability. Hence, 
comprehensive care by specialised health care professionals, addressing the 
multidimensional problems experienced by the patients is required. 
Interdisciplinary teams in which nurses guarantee the management beyond typical 
medical issues are promising. Key elements of nurses' involvement are 
facilitation of the transition process from paediatric to adult cardiology, 
identification of patient needs, screening and referral for psychosocial 
problems, and education and counselling of patients and families. In particular, 
an advanced practice nurse seems to be pre-eminent to optimise illness 
management of adult patients with congenital heart disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-5151(01)00014-7
PMID: 14622863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2003 Dec;51(10):581-5. doi:
10.1016/j.patbio.2003.09.004.

Immunity and immunization in elderly.

Bourée P(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité des Maladies Parasitaires et Tropicales, Hôpital de Bicêtre 78, rue du 
Général-Leclerc, 94275 Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. 
patrice.bouree@bct.ap-hop-paris.fr

As the average life expectancy increases, retired people want to travel. Five to 
8% of travellers in tropical areas are old persons. Immune system suffers of old 
age as the other organs. The number and the functions of the T-lymphocytes 
decrease, but the B-lymphocytes are not altered. So, the response to the 
vaccinations is slower and lower in the elderly. Influenza is a great cause of 
death rate in old people. The seroconversion, after vaccine, is 50% from 60 to 
70 years old, 31% from 70 to 80 years old, and only 11% after 80 years old. But 
in public health, the vaccination reduced the morbidity by 25%, admission to 
hospital by 20%, pneumonia by 50%, and mortality by 70%. Antipoliomyelitis 
vaccine is useful for travellers, as the vaccines against hepatitis and typhoid 
fever. Pneumococcal vaccine is effective in 60%. Tetanus is fatal in at last 32% 
of the people above 80 years, therefore this vaccine is very important.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2003.09.004
PMID: 14622949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Ann Intern Med. 2003 Nov 18;139(10):810-6. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-139-10-200311180-00008.

Effect of medication adherence on survival of HIV-infected adults who start 
highly active antiretroviral therapy when the CD4+ cell count is 0.200 to 0.350 
x 10(9) cells/L.

Wood E(1), Hogg RS, Yip B, Harrigan PR, O'Shaughnessy MV, Montaner JS.

Author information:
(1)St. Paul's Hospital and University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2003 Nov 18;139(10):I20.

BACKGROUND: The safety of delaying highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) 
in HIV-infected patients is uncertain when the CD4+ cell count declines below 
0.350 x 10(9) cells/L.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of baseline CD4+ cell count and adherence to 
HAART on survival rates.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
SETTING: Province-wide Canadian HIV/AIDS treatment program.
PATIENTS: 1422 HIV-infected persons initiating HAART between 1 August 1996 and 
31 July 2000 and followed through 31 March 2002.
MEASUREMENTS: Patients were stratified by baseline CD4+ cell count and adherence 
level. Cumulative mortality rates were evaluated by using Kaplan-Meier methods 
and Cox regression-estimated adjusted relative hazards.
RESULTS: Kaplan-Meier analyses showed no survival benefit of starting HAART at a 
CD4+ count of 0.200 x 10(9) cells/L or greater among adherent patients. Adjusted 
analysis showed that compared with adherent patients who initiated HAART at a 
CD4+ cell count of 0.350 x 10(9) cells/L or greater, nonadherent patients who 
initiated HAART when the CD4+ cell count was 0.200 to 0.349 x 10(9) cells/L had 
statistically elevated mortality rates (adjusted relative hazard, 2.56 [95% CI, 
1.36 to 4.84]; P = 0.004). However, compared with adherent patients who 
initiated HAART at a CD4+ cell count of 0.350 x 10(9) cells/L or greater, 
adherent patients who initiated HAART when the CD4+ cell count was 0.200 to 
0.349 x 10(9) cells/L had statistically similar mortality rates (adjusted 
relative hazard, 0.82 [CI, 0.45 to 1.49]; P > 0.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Delaying HAART until the CD4+ cell count falls to 0.200 x 109 
cells/L does not increase the mortality rate in HIV-infected patients with good 
medication adherence. Mortality rates increase if HAART is initiated below 0.200 
x 10(9) cells/L. Also, nonadherent patients have higher mortality rates than 
adherent patients with similar CD4+ cell counts. Above a CD4+ cell count of 
0.200 x 10(9) cells/L, medication adherence is the critical determinant of 
survival, not the CD4+ cell count at which HAART is begun.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-139-10-200311180-00008
PMID: 14623618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Arch Neurol. 2003 Nov;60(11):1601-3. doi: 10.1001/archneur.60.11.1601.

A phase 1 trial of riluzole in spinal muscular atrophy.

Russman BS(1), Iannaccone ST, Samaha FJ.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health Sciences University and Shriners Hospital for Children, 
Portland, OR 97201, USA. brussman@shrinenet.org

BACKGROUND: Severe spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) (Werdnig-Hoffmann disease, 
acute SMA, and SMA I) is a disease of the motor neuron characterized by onset 
before 6 months of age, failure ever to achieve sitting without support, and a 
life expectancy of 2 years or less. There is no known treatment for SMA, and, 
until recently, no therapeutic trials have been attempted. There is reason to 
believe that glutamate, an excitatory neurotransmitter, enhances programmed cell 
death of anterior horn cells. Riluzole, a glutamate inhibitor, has been shown to 
slow the rate of decline in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, another 
form of motor neuron disease.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether a glutamate inhibitor might be tolerated by 
infants with SMA and, furthermore, whether this medication could have a positive 
effect on life expectancy.
DESIGN: Subjects with homozygous deletions of the survival motor neuron gene 
were recruited from pediatric neuromuscular clinics and randomized in a 2:1 
ratio, 2 riluzole to 1 placebo. Neurologic examination was performed at the 
first visit by one of the investigators. Complete blood count, hepatic and renal 
screens, and urinalysis were performed at baseline, 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 
3 months, 6 months, and 9 months after drug or placebo was started. An 
electrocardiogram was done at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months. 
Treatment was stopped after 9 months, and blood work was repeated at 12 months. 
Treatment was reinstituted at 1 year if requested by the parents. The enrollment 
goal was 30 patients; however, support from the pharmaceutical company was 
withdrawn when Rhone-Poulenc Rorer was taken over by Aventis. The 
investigational review boards of the participating centers approved the protocol 
and consent forms.
RESULTS: Seven patients received riluzole and 3 received placebo medication. All 
3 patients in the placebo group died (mean age, 9 months). Three of 7 who 
received active drug are still living at ages 513 years, 4 years, and 30 months. 
None of the 10 subjects experienced adverse effects or changes in laboratory 
test results. None showed any change in motor abilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Riluzole appears to be safe in young children. This was a limited 
study with insufficient power to show a difference between the 2 groups. Because 
there is a suggestion of possible benefit in treated subjects, we recommend 
further study of riluzole in pediatric patients with SMA.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.60.11.1601
PMID: 14623733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Circulation. 2003 Dec 9;108(23):2883-91. doi: 
10.1161/01.CIR.0000100721.52503.85. Epub 2003 Nov 17.

Noninvasive arrhythmia risk stratification in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy: 
results of the Marburg Cardiomyopathy Study.

Grimm W(1), Christ M, Bach J, Müller HH, Maisch B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Philipps-University Marburg, Baldingerstrasse, 
35033 Marburg, Germany. wolfram.grimm@med.uni-marburg.de

BACKGROUND: Arrhythmia risk stratification with regard to prophylactic 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy is a completely unsolved issue in 
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Arrhythmia risk stratification was performed prospectively 
in 343 patients with IDC, including analysis of left ventricular (LV) ejection 
fraction and size by echocardiography, signal-averaged ECG, arrhythmias on 
Holter ECG, QTc dispersion, heart rate variability, baroreflex sensitivity, and 
microvolt T-wave alternans. During 52+/-21 months of follow-up, major arrhythmic 
events, defined as sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, 
or sudden death, occurred in 46 patients (13%). On multivariate analysis, LV 
ejection fraction was the only significant arrhythmia risk predictor in patients 
with sinus rhythm, with a relative risk of 2.3 per 10% decrease of ejection 
fraction (95% CI, 1.5 to 3.3; P=0.0001). Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia on 
Holter was associated with a trend toward higher arrhythmia risk (RR, 1.7; 95% 
CI, 0.9 to 3.3; P=0.11), whereas beta-blocker therapy was associated with a 
trend toward lower arrhythmia risk (RR, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.3 to 1.2; P=0.13). In 
patients with atrial fibrillation, multivariate Cox analysis also identified LV 
ejection fraction and absence of beta-blocker therapy as the only significant 
arrhythmia risk predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced LV ejection fraction and lack of beta-blocker use are 
important arrhythmia risk predictors in IDC, whereas signal-averaged ECG, 
baroreflex sensitivity, heart rate variability, and T-wave alternans do not seem 
to be helpful for arrhythmia risk stratification. These findings have important 
implications for the design of future studies evaluating prophylactic 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy in IDC.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000100721.52503.85
PMID: 14623812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Urologe A. 2003 Nov;42(11):1453-60. doi: 10.1007/s00120-003-0452-y.

[Chemotherapy of hormone refractory prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Wirth MP(1), Nippgen J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum "Carl Gustav Carus" 
der TU Dresden, Dresden. manfred.wirth@mailbox.tu-dresden.de

An increasing life expectancy and the growing number of largely healthy older 
men have lead to more patients with hormone insensitive relapses after 
palliative hormone or curative therapy for prostate cancer. After 10 years 
without therapeutic improvement for hormone refractory prostate cancer, the 
introduction of new substances has led to a revival of chemotherapy. Although a 
definitive cure is still not possible, such chemotherapy fulfils important 
palliative criteria-good toleration and an improvement in quality of life-in 
addition to distinct long-term remission. For example, taxane as a monotherapy 
or in combination with estramustine is effective and well tolerated while 
mitoxantrone in combination with prednisolone, although of limited 
effectiveness, leads to a substantial reduction in symptoms. Although evidence 
for increased longevity through modern chemotherapy is available, this has still 
not been definitively demonstrated. The substantial reduction in pain and 
therapy related morbidity frequently makes chemotherapy for hormone refractive 
prostate cancer a superior alternative to simple pain and complication 
management.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-003-0452-y
PMID: 14624343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Crit Care. 2003 Dec;7(6):435-44. doi: 10.1186/cc2392. Epub 2003 Oct 17.

Bench-to-bedside review: microvascular and airspace linkage in 
ventilator-induced lung injury.

Marini JJ(1), Hotchkiss JR, Broccard AF.

Author information:
(1)Professor, University of Minnesota, Regions Hospital, St Paul, Minnesota, 
USA. marin002@umn.edu

Experimental and clinical evidence point strongly toward the potential for 
microvascular stresses to influence the severity and expression of ventilator 
associated lung injury. Intense microvascular stresses not only influence edema 
but predispose to structural failure of the gas-blood barrier, possibly with 
adverse consequences for the lung and for extrapulmonary organs. Taking measures 
to lower vascular stress may offer a logical, but as yet unproven, extension of 
a lung-protective strategy for life support in ARDS.

DOI: 10.1186/cc2392
PMCID: PMC374383
PMID: 14624683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Insect Physiol. 2003 Dec;49(12):1199-209. doi:
10.1016/j.jinsphys.2003.09.004.

Probiotic effects of beta-glucuronidase on the peach-potato aphid Myzus persicae 
(Aphididae).

Cherqui A(1), Alla S, Saguez J, Doury G, Sangwan-Norreel BS, Giordanengo P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie des Entomophages, UPRES EA 2084, Université de 
Picardie Jules Verne, 33 rue Saint Leu, 80039 Amiens Cedex, France.

beta-glucuronidase (GUS) is a reporter protein commonly expressed in transgenic 
plants allowing the visualization of the transformed individuals. In our recent 
work, we showed that consumption of transformed potato plants expressing this 
GUS enzyme improves performance of the phloem feeding aphid Myzus persicae. 
Those results led us to the conclusion that the expression of GUS in potato 
plants might be responsible for the probiotic effect measured in feeding aphids. 
In the present paper, artificial diets were used to provide active GUS (10 and 
500 microg ml(-1)), inactivated heated GUS (500 microg ml(-1)), glucuronic acid 
(10, 100 and 500 microg ml(-1)), and bovine serum albumin (500 microg ml(-1)) to 
M. persicae. Our results reveal that these chemicals provided as food intake 
might influence the biological parameters of this aphid. Experiments showed a 
probiotic effect of 500 microg ml(-1) GUS diet, resulting in reduced larval 
mortality, and increased adult reproduction period and fecundity, which led to 
an increased population growth potential (r(m)=0.17+/-0.01 versus 
r(m)=0.12+/-0.03 for aphids fed on control diet). A lower amount of added GUS 
led to fewer variations, biological parameters being only slightly altered 
(r(m)=0.14+/-0.03). Statistically similar alterations of the biological 
parameters were obtained when comparing aphids fed on the diet added with 
inactivated GUS or the non-structural bovine serum albumin protein 
(r(m)=0.15+/-0.02 and 0.14+/-0.03, respectively). Feeding assays conducted with 
glucuronic acid supplemented diets enhanced longevity and nymph production of 
the adult aphids and reduced larval mortality, resulting in r(m)=0.15+/-0.02 for 
the highest dose (500 microg ml(-1)). Although 100 microg ml(-1) glucuronate 
diet did not induce any effect on M. persicae (r(m)=0.12+/-0.03), aphids fed on 
10 microg ml(-1) glucuronate diet exhibited unexpected reduced demographic 
parameters (r(m)=0.10+/-0.03). Immuno-histological analysis showed GUS labeling 
along the whole digestive epithelium of adults and in various tissues including 
embryos and bacteriocytes. These results suggest that GUS crosses through the 
digestive tract. Western blots performed with protein extracts of transformed 
potato plants expressing the gus gene showed a unique band of molecular weight 
76 kDa. On the contrary, in extracts from aphids fed on transgenic potato plants 
or bred on GUS 500 microg ml(-1) artificial diet, several proteins of lower 
molecular weight were hybridized, revealing proteolysis of ingested GUS. It is 
concluded that GUS protein, and more precisely GUS activity, is responsible for 
the probiotic effects on aphid feeding. The possible pathways of induction of 
such physiological alterations by GUS are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2003.09.004
PMID: 14624892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):793-9. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00653-8.

Expectant management of localized prostate cancer.

Khan MA(1), Partin AW, Carter HB.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00653-8
PMID: 14624896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):845-8. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00654-x.

Prostate size and PSA serum levels in male patients with spinal cord injury.

Pannek J(1), Berges RR, Cubick G, Meindl R, Senge T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Herne, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate prostate size and serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
levels in male patients with spinal cord injury (SCI). As a result of improved 
medical care, the life expectancy in patients with SCI today equals the life 
expectancy of the general population. Therefore, male patients with SCI are 
likely to develop benign prostatic hyperplasia or prostate cancer. Although 
animal experiments indicate that neurogenic factors play an important role in 
prostate growth, the influence of these factors is not well examined in humans.
METHODS: The data of 100 male patients with SCI and 575 noninjured men were 
evaluated. The inclusion criteria were age older than 35 years and SCI for 
longer than 2 years. The exclusion criteria were previous prostate surgery, 
acute urinary tract infection, and bladder or prostate cancer. PSA was measured 
by an immunoenzymatic assay, and the prostatic volume was assessed by 
transrectal ultrasonography. For analysis, patients were grouped according to 
age.
RESULTS: With increasing age, the mean prostate volume increased in the patients 
with SCI and in the control group. The mean PSA level increased with age in the 
control group and to a far lesser extent in the patients with SCI. Neither for 
the entire cohort nor for the subgroups delineated by age were the differences 
in mean PSA level and mean prostate volume between patients with SCI and the 
control group statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Prostate growth is detectable in patients with SCI. Although there 
is a tendency toward a lower prostate volume and lower serum PSA level in 
patients with SCI, the differences were not statistically significant. According 
to our results, the reference ranges for PSA levels are not vastly different 
from the general reference ranges.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00654-x
PMID: 14624906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):860-5. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00690-3.

Continued undertreatment of older men with localized prostate cancer.

Schwartz KL(1), Alibhai SM, Tomlinson G, Naglie G, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, School of Medicine, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To explore the association among patient factors (age, comorbidity), 
disease-specific factors (stage, Gleason score), and suboptimal initial 
treatment in a cohort of men with localized prostate cancer.
METHODS: An age-stratified, geographically representative cohort of 276 patients 
with localized prostate cancer diagnosed in 1995 to 1996 was identified using 
the Ontario Cancer Registry. Data describing age, comorbidity, Gleason score, 
stage, and treatment received were abstracted by chart review. A previously 
developed Markov state-transition model was used to estimate the optimal 
treatment for each patient. A logistic regression model was developed to 
estimate the predictors of suboptimal treatment. The treatment received was 
compared with the predicted optimal treatment. Suboptimal treatment occurred 
when the difference between the optimal treatment and treatment received was 
clinically important (thresholds of 0.2 to 1.0 life year or quality-adjusted 
life year).
RESULTS: Of 276 patients, 41 (14.9%) received suboptimal treatment. Age, Gleason 
score, and comorbidity were independent predictors of suboptimal treatment. 
Healthy men aged 70 years or older, with Gleason scores of 5 to 7 or 8 to 10 had 
the greatest proportion of suboptimal treatment (46.9% and 72.7%, respectively). 
The average quality-adjusted life expectancy lost for healthy men aged 70 to 79 
years with Gleason scores of 5 to 7 and 8 to 10 was 0.62 year and 0.93 year per 
patient, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Otherwise healthy men in their 70s and 80s with localized prostate 
cancer are often receiving watchful waiting and potentially losing valuable 
years of life. Many of these patients with at least moderate-grade disease may 
benefit from potentially curative therapy (radical prostatectomy or 
radiotherapy).

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00690-3
PMID: 14624909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):866-71. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00674-5.

Probability of biochemical recurrence by analysis of pathologic stage, Gleason 
score, and margin status for localized prostate cancer.

Khan MA(1), Partin AW, Mangold LA, Epstein JI, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute and Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21287-2101, USA

OBJECTIVES: The Partin tables provide pretreatment information regarding the 
probability of various pathologic stages (eg, organ confined, extraprostatic 
extension, and seminal vesicle or lymph node involvement). Although the 
pathologic stage serves as an excellent surrogate for outcome after radical 
prostatectomy (RRP), many patients and physicians want to know how the 
predictions made from the Partin tables can be translated into long-term 
biochemical recurrence-free survival. In this work, we go beyond the pathologic 
outcomes predicted by the Partin nomograms to provide long-term biochemical 
recurrence-free estimates on the basis of the pathologic data obtained at RRP to 
help counsel patients after surgery for prostate cancer.
METHODS: The study group comprised 1955 men treated by one surgeon with RRP and 
pelvic lymph node dissection for clinically localized disease (1989 to 2001). 
The patients were followed up for at least 1 year postoperatively, and the 
disease-free survival rates were determined using Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: The pathologic stages were as follows: organ confined in 57%, 
extraprostatic extension in 35%, seminal vesicle involvement in 4%, and lymph 
node involvement in 4%. The prostatectomy Gleason score distribution was as 
follows: 2 to 4 in 1%, 5 to 6 in 63%, 7 in 30%, and 8 to 10 in 6%. Overall, a 
positive surgical margin was present in 9.8%. On the basis of the prostatectomy 
Gleason score, pathologic stage, and surgical margin status, the probability of 
long-term biochemical recurrence-free survival was divided into four groups: 
excellent, good, moderate, and low.
CONCLUSIONS: These simple to use and explain risk groups can be used to predict 
long-term biochemical recurrence-free survival from pathologic stage data 
obtained at surgery or predicted from the Partin tables, along with surgical 
margin status and Gleason score information obtained at RRP.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00674-5
PMID: 14624910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):872-6. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00667-8.

Combination of low-dose flutamide and finasteride for PSA-only recurrent 
prostate cancer after primary therapy.

Barqawi AB(1), Moul JW, Ziada A, Handel L, Crawford ED.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, 
Colorado 80262, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of combined finasteride 
and low-dose flutamide for prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-only recurrence after 
definitive therapy and to determine the predictors of recurrence-free survival.
METHODS: Seventy-one men with biochemical recurrence after primary therapy for 
prostate cancer were prospectively enrolled from 1996 to 1998. Forty-two 
patients had undergone radical retropubic prostatectomy and 29 had undergone 
external beam radiotherapy. Radionuclide bone scans and computed tomography of 
the abdomen and pelvis showed no metastasis. The initial treatment with 
finasteride (5 mg twice daily) and flutamide (125 mg twice daily) was continued 
unless participants were unable to tolerate the agents or experienced PSA 
progression.
RESULTS: At a mean of 44.4 months (range 12 to 92) of follow-up, 54 (76%) of 71 
patients were available for measurement of disease status and response to 
therapy. Three patients had died of unrelated causes; 5 men withdrew from the 
study because of side effects and 1 patient for protocol violation. Eight 
patients were lost to follow-up. Twenty-seven patients (38%) continued receiving 
therapy with no evidence of PSA progression (PSA level less than 0.4 ng/mL), 6 
patients maintained a more than 50% reduction in their baseline PSA level at the 
time of analysis, and 21 (29%) had PSA progression (ie, elevated PSA level on 
three consecutive tests more than 4 weeks apart). Major side effects were breast 
tenderness (90%), gynecomastia (72%), gastrointestinal disturbances (22%), 
fatigue (10%), and decreased libido (4%). The side effects were mild and well 
tolerated by most patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of finasteride and flutamide showed a moderate 
efficacy in patients with PSA-only recurrence after definitive therapy. The 
efficacy appears to be greater in patients who can achieve a PSA nadir of 0.1 
ng/mL or less after the start of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00667-8
PMID: 14624911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Urology. 2003 Nov;62(5):918-21. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00665-4.

Factors influencing the outcomes of penile prosthesis surgery at a teaching 
institution.

Lotan Y(1), Roehrborn CG, McConnell JD, Hendin BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at 
Dallas, Dallas, Texas 75390-9110, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term outcomes of penile prosthesis surgery at a 
teaching institution.
METHODS: Patients who had penile prosthesis surgery from 1988 to 1999 at a 
private teaching hospital and the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center were 
identified and charts abstracted for age at first prosthesis, ethnicity, 
etiology of impotence, comorbid medical disease, previous treatments, surgeon, 
type of prosthesis, perioperative complications, social history, and outcome. 
Patient outcomes were determined either from recent clinical documentation 
within the prior year or by telephone survey of patients. Frequent implanters 
were defined as those surgeons who performed more than 10 procedures during the 
study period. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to evaluate survival for patients 
and prostheses; statistical significance was assessed by the log-rank test.
RESULTS: A total of 152 patients were identified, 81 patients at the Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center and 71 patients at the private hospital. A total of 180 
procedures were performed by 15 attending surgeons, 4 of whom performed most (n 
= 132) of these procedures. No statistically significant difference was noted in 
patient age between the two hospitals. No statistically significant differences 
were found in survival of the penile prostheses on the basis of a history of 
smoking, diabetes, hypertension, or coronary artery disease. First prostheses 
had statistically significant better survival compared with secondary prostheses 
(5-year rate 71% versus 42%; 10-year rate 60% versus 35%, P = 0.0002). The 
overall infection rate at final follow-up was 9.9% and 18.8% for primary and 
secondary prostheses, respectively (P = 0.03). The 5-year survival outcomes with 
first prostheses for frequent implanters were superior to those of infrequent 
implanters (70% versus 63%, P = 0.034). Malleable prostheses had fewer 
complications than three-piece inflatable prostheses (10-year survival rate 87% 
versus 50%, P = 0.0081).
CONCLUSIONS: Superior penile prosthesis outcomes were achieved with first penile 
prostheses when implanted by higher volume implanters. Meticulous technique and 
experience are important in all penile prosthesis surgery; however, outcome 
analysis emphasizes that the differences in outcomes are most apparent with 
first prostheses, which represent the best opportunity for the patient to 
achieve good results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00665-4
PMID: 14624920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Surg Endosc. 2004 Jan;18(1):128-30. doi: 10.1007/s00464-003-9093-x. Epub 2003
 Nov 21.

The laparoscopic approach to sacrococcygeal teratomas.

Bax NM(1), van der Zee DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, University 
Medical Center Utrecht, P.O. Box 85090, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
N.Bax@wkz.azu.nl

BACKGROUND: Sacrococcygeal teratomas (SCT) are classically approached 
posteriorly through an inverted chevron incision. In large, external, mainly 
solid SCT, prior interruption of the arterial supply is warranted because of 
impending heart failure and life-threatening hemorrhagic diathesis. Hitherto, 
this has required prior laparotomy. A laparotomy is also added when the tumor 
extends presacrally into the pelvis. The presacral region is, however, difficult 
to access. A laparoscopic-assisted approach seems to offer a solution for both 
problems.
METHODS: A laparoscopic-assisted approach was used in five patients with SCT. In 
one neonate, it was used to interrupt the arterial blood supply only; in the 
other four patients, it was used to dissect the internal extension of the tumor.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic interruption of the median sacral artery proved to be 
simple in the neonate with a large, external, mainly solid SCT. In three of the 
remaining four patients with presacral extension of the tumor, good 
visualization and dissection of the intrapelvic portion of the tumor was 
obtained. In one patient, the procedure had to be converted because of a lack of 
working space due to extensive intraabdominal growth of the tumor.
CONCLUSION: A laparoscopic-assisted approach seems to be ideal for SCT. It 
provides the opportunity to interrupt the median sacral artery before the 
dissection. Moreover, it enables far better access to the presacral area than 
the conventional surgical approach when the SCT extends presacrally into the 
pelvis. Such a meticulous laparoscopic dissection may improve the functional 
results.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-003-9093-x
PMID: 14625743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Liver Transpl. 2003 Dec;9(12):1295-307. doi: 10.1016/j.lts.2003.09.012.

Midterm cost-effectiveness of the liver transplantation program of England and 
Wales for three disease groups.

Longworth L(1), Young T, Buxton MJ, Ratcliffe J, Neuberger J, Burroughs A, Bryan 
S; CELT Project Team.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

Comment in
    Liver Transpl. 2003 Dec;9(12):1308-11.
    Gastroenterology. 2004 Jun;126(7):1915-7; discussion 1917.

Liver transplantation has never been the subject of a randomized controlled 
trial, and there remains uncertainty about the magnitude of benefit and 
cost-effectiveness for specific patient groups. This article reports the results 
of an economic evaluation of adult liver transplantation in England and Wales. 
Patients placed on the waiting list for a liver transplant were observed over 27 
months. The costs and health benefits of a comparison group, representing 
experience in the absence of liver transplantation, were estimated using a 
combination of observed data from patients waiting for a transplant and 
published prognostic models. The analysis focuses on three disease groups, for 
each of which prognostic models were available: primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), 
alcoholic liver disease (ALD), and primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). A 
higher proportion of patients with ALD were assessed for a transplant but not 
placed on the waiting list. The estimated gain in quality-adjusted life-years 
from transplantation was positive for each of the disease groups. The mean 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (95% bootstrap confidence 
intervals) from time of listing to 27 months for patients with PBC, ALD, and PSC 
are pound 29,000 (pounds 1,000 to pounds 59,000), pounds 48,000 (pounds 12,000 
to pounds 83,000) and pounds 21,000 (-pounds 23,000 to pounds 60,000), 
respectively. In conclusion, liver transplantation increases the survival and 
health-related quality of life of patients with each of three end-stage liver 
diseases. However, the extent of this increase differs between different disease 
groups. Cost-effectiveness estimates were poorer for patients with ALD over the 
27-month period than for patients with PBC or PSC. This in part reflects the 
costs of the higher number of ALD patients assessed for each transplant.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lts.2003.09.012
PMID: 14625830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Liver Transpl. 2003 Dec;9(12):1308-11. doi: 10.1016/j.lts.2003.09.025.

Liver transplantation is effective, but is it cost-effective?

Bambha K, Kim WR.

Comment on
    Liver Transpl. 2003 Dec;9(12):1295-307.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lts.2003.09.025
PMID: 14625831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Diabetes Educ. 2002 Sep-Oct;28(5):768-71, 774-5. doi: 
10.1177/014572170202800518.

Cystic-fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus.

Freeland BS(1)(2), Micallef J(1).

Author information:
(1)The Outpatient Diabetes Education Program, Harper University Hospital, 
De­troit, Michigan
(2)Ms Freeland also is with Wayne State University, School of Medicine, Detroit, 
Michigan.

DOI: 10.1177/014572170202800518
PMID: 14625963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Int J Health Care Finance Econ. 2002 Nov;2(4):285-96. doi: 
10.1023/a:1022308217947.

Efficient use of health care resources: the interaction between improved health 
and reduced health related income loss.

Hoel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1095, N-0317 Oslo, 
Norway. michael.hoel@econ.uio.no

Cost effectiveness is a criterion that is often recommended for prioritizing 
between different types of health care. A modified use of this criterion can be 
justified as the outcome of a choice that is made "behind a veil of ignorance." 
Reduced health will in many cases also gives an income loss that is shared 
between the patient and society ar large. In the special case where the marginal 
utilities of health status (measured by QALYs) and income are independent of the 
health state, an efficient allocation of health resources is characterized by 
net marginal costs per QALY being equalized across different types of health 
care. Net marginal costs are equal to gross marginal costs minus the reduction 
in health related income losses due to treatment. In the general case where 
marginal utilities depend on the health state this rule must be modified.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022308217947
PMID: 14625995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Hosp Outlook. 2003 Aug-Oct;6(4):11, 13.

Creating a health care system that works for all Americans.

Wyden R(1).

Author information:
(1)United States Senate, USA.

PMID: 14626600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Rev Med Liege. 2003 Sep;58(9):572-5.

[Hormone replacement therapy one year after the results of the Women's Health 
Initiative].

[Article in French]

Pintiaux A(1), Van den Brûle F, Foidart JM, Gaspard U.

Author information:
(1)Université de Liège, Département de gynécologie-obstétrique.

The currently reported data concerning the large WHI randomized controlled trial 
compare the impact of continuous combined conjugated estrogens + 
medroxyprogesterone acetate vs placebo in postmenopausal women. These results 
appear largely pessimistic. After 5.2 years of hormone replacement, an excess of 
coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, venous thromboembolism, breast 
cancer incidence and extension, mild cognitive impairment and dementia is 
recorded. By contrast, osteoporotic fracture risk and colorectal cancer are 
decreased during hormone replacement. Accordingly, this hormonal treatment can 
no longer be recommended on a long term basis, except after extensive 
risk-benefit balance evaluation. It should no longer be prescribed for 
prevention of chronic diseases. It remains indicated during 4-5 years for relief 
of vasomotor symptoms, genital atrophy and, potentially, for some aspects of 
quality of life. HRT should probably be prescribed in minimal-effective dosages; 
new regimens, routes of administration, new compounds and associations should be 
envisaged in order to avoid cardiovascular or breast problems. However these new 
approaches ask for thorough validation studies.

PMID: 14626652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Lakartidningen. 2003 Oct 23;100(43):3436-7.

[Health services need knowledge of how the public values health].

[Article in Swedish]

Persson U(1), Hjelmgren J.

Author information:
(1)IHE (Institutet för hälso- och sjukvårdsekonomi), Lund. up@ihe.se

PMID: 14626774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Value Health. 2003 Sep-Oct;6(5):542-50. doi:
10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.65248.x.

When should functional neuroimaging techniques be used in the diagnosis and 
management of Alzheimer's dementia? A decision analysis.

Kulasingam SL(1), Samsa GP, Zarin DA, Rutschmann OT, Patwardhan MB, McCrory DC, 
Schmechel DE, Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Functional neuroimaging, including positron emission tomography 
(PET), has been proposed for use in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease-related 
dementia (AD).
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was identify the circumstances under 
which PET scanning for the diagnosis of AD maximizes health outcomes.
METHODS: A Markov-model-based decision analysis was conducted using estimates 
derived from the literature on AD epidemiology, the accuracy of PET, and 
donepezil treatment efficacy. The target population for the analysis was assumed 
to be US men and women who either have mild AD or are asymptomatic but at an 
elevated risk of developing AD owing to disease in a first-degree relative 
(parent or sibling). The time horizon was the patient lifetime. We compared 
treatment 1) based on an American Academy of Neurology (AAN) clinical evaluation 
either alone; 2) in combination with PET scanning; or 3) empirically based on a 
family history. Outcomes measures were life expectancy, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and (severe) dementia-free life expectancy (SDFLE).
RESULTS: For both patient populations, treating all patients based on an AAN 
evaluation without further testing using PET resulted in the greatest gains in 
life expectancy, QALYs, and SDFLEs. PET-based testing was the second preferred 
strategy compared to no intervention. The rankings of the strategies were 
sensitive to severity of treatment complications: analyses of hypothetical 
treatments with the potential for severe complications indicated that testing 
was preferred if the treatment was effective but had moderate complications.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that current treatments, which are relatively 
benign and may slow progression of disease, should be offered to patients who 
are identified as having AD based solely on an AAN clinical evaluation. A 
clinical evaluation that includes functional neuroimaging based testing will be 
warranted, however, when new treatments that are effective at slowing disease 
progression but have the potential for moderate to severe complications become 
available.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.65248.x
PMID: 14627060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2003 Aug;44(4):543-7.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in high-risk and elderly patients.

Geraghty PJ(1), Sicard GA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110-1094, USA. geraghtyp@msnotes.wustl.edu

Elective open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a proven surgical 
therapy with acceptable rates of perioperative mortality. Open AAA repair in 
elderly and high-risk patients, however, carries a significantly greater risk of 
surgical mortality and perioperative complications. Given the steady increase of 
life expectancy in developed nations, assessment of surgical outcomes and 
clarification of the role of emerging therapies in the aging population are of 
significant interest to the vascular surgeon. Selection of treatment options for 
these patients must be based on an individual approach, and assessment of 
outcomes must include more subtle parameters, such as quality of life, in 
addition to operative survival. Recent studies assessing the applicability of 
endoluminal graft repair in the elderly demonstrate that this avenue of 
treatment may offer substantial benefit to selected patients. We review the 
historical data regarding operative aneurysm repair in the high-risk and elderly 
population, and examine the impact of endoluminal therapy of AAAs in these 
challenging patients.

PMID: 14627227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2003 Dec;181(6):1653-61. doi: 10.2214/ajr.181.6.1811653.

Incorporating patient-centered outcomes in the analysis of cost-effectiveness: 
imaging strategies for renovascular hypertension.

Carlos RC(1), Axelrod DA, Ellis JH, Abrahamse PH, Fendrick AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, 1500 E Medical Center Dr., 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0030, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to assess the contribution of patient-centered short-term 
disutilities and quality-of-life measures in the cost-effectiveness analysis of 
CT angiography, MR angiography, and conventional angiography in patients with 
medication-resistant hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision analytic model compared the life expectancy 
and incremental cost per life year using three initial diagnostic tests in a 
cohort of hypothetical individuals with medication-resistant hypertension over a 
range of renal artery stenosis probabilities: CT angiography (sensitivity, 96%; 
specificity, 96%; cost, $865); MR angiography (98%, 94%, $850); and conventional 
angiography (99%, 99%, $2,627). All imaging strategies were compared with a base 
case scenario mimicking the natural history of medication-resistant hypertension 
and with a scenario immediate enhanced medical therapy without prior imaging. 
Individuals without evidence of renal artery stenosis on initial testing 
underwent conventional angiography if enhanced medical therapy failed to control 
hypertension. Individuals diagnosed with renal artery stenosis on MR angiography 
required conventional angiography for definitive stent treatment ($11,1223). 
Blood pressure response to renal artery stenting or enhanced medical therapy 
varied according to blood pressure, as did the incidence of myocardial 
infarction and stroke resulting from hypertension. Patients who progressed to 
end-stage renal disease received dialysis ($60,000 per year). Quality-of-life 
adjustments were made for patients with hypertension, end-stage renal disease, 
myocardial infarction, and stroke. Short-term disutilities from undergoing an 
imaging test were included. The analysis accounted for direct costs derived from 
Medicare reimbursements and total costs derived from the literature.
RESULTS: All imaging strategies were cost-effective compared with enhanced 
medical therapy alone or with natural history. When only direct costs were 
considered, MR angiography was the preferred strategy, with conventional 
angiography as a cost-effective alternative to MR angiography. When total costs 
were considered, conventional angiography dominated all other strategies. 
Adjusting for quality of life decreased the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios, making an already competitive strategy a more favorable alternative to 
the base case. Adjusting for test-related disutility did not significantly 
influence the cost-effectiveness of any of the imaging tests. Despite marked 
variation in the key clinical and cost variables, MR angiography remained the 
most cost-effective strategy.
CONCLUSION: In the evaluation and treatment of medication-resistant 
hypertension, strategies that included preliminary imaging saved more lives than 
did the immediate institution of enhanced medical therapy at a lesser cost.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.181.6.1811653
PMID: 14627591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Zentralbl Chir. 2003 Oct;128(10):821-30. doi: 10.1055/s-2003-44336.

[Pancreas transplantation: a survey on indications, surgical techniques, 
immunosuppression, complications and outcome].

[Article in German]

Drognitz O(1), Hopt UT.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Chirurgie, Abteilung für Allgemein- und 
Viszeralchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Freiburg. oliverdrognitz@web.de

Since its introduction in 1966, pancreas transplantation has undergone 
considerable progress. Refinements in surgical technique, better organ 
preservation solutions, and more potent immunosuppressive therapies have 
improved patient and graft-survival rates dramatically. Survival rates for 
patient and pancreas at 1 year approach 95 and 83 %, resp., for simultaneous 
pancreas and kidney transplantation, and 97 and 78 %, resp., for pancreas alone. 
US pancreas graft and patient survival rates do not significantly differ from 
the results of the European centers. However, there is still a hesitant 
acceptance of combined pancreas-kidney transplantation in Germany. Combined 
pancreas-kidney transplantation is nowadays the treatment of choice in carefully 
selected patients with type 1 insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and end-stage 
renal failure. Many US centers even advocate combined transplantation in 
diabetic patients at a pre-uremic stage. Pancreas transplantation significantly 
improves quality of life and provides excellent long-term glycemic control which 
halts or even ameliorates secondary diabetic complications such as 
microangiopathy and neuropathy. In addition, there is increasing evidence that 
successful pancreas transplantation significantly prolongs patient survival 
mainly by a reduction of cardiovascular-related mortality. Current 10-year 
patient survival rate after SPK exceeds 70 %. For diabetics with end-stage renal 
disease there is no alternative treatment available with comparable live 
expectancy. However, morbidity and mortality after SPK is still higher than for 
kidney transplantation alone in the first year. Outcome of isolated pancreas 
transplantation is also improving but this technique is still restricted to 
non-uremic patients with severe diabetic complications or with brittle diabetes 
and severe impairment of quality of life.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2003-44336
PMID: 14628231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Hosp Q. 2003;6(4):63-5, 4. doi: 10.12927/hcq..16612.

Public skepticism in Canadian healthcare: the real cause of inertia in the 
system?

Craighead PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Calgary and Department of Radiation 
Oncology, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Alberta.

Although Canada has not examined issue related to public trust in as much depth 
as the United States, we can assume that despite improvements in life 
expectancy, quality of life and infant mortality rates during the past 30 years, 
Canadians perceive their healthcare to have deteriorated over the last two 
decades. Should we worry about this phenomenon, and can anything be done about 
it?

DOI: 10.12927/hcq..16612
PMID: 14628534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Am J Nurs. 2003 Nov;103(11):52-3.

Assessment of dying.

Kesler TC(1), Mowers R, Griffie J, Prochnow J.

Author information:
(1)Community Care for the Elderly, Milwaukee, WI, USA.

PMID: 14628845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Health Soc Care Community. 2003 Jul;11(4):329-34. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2524.2003.00431.x.

Social networks, social support, health and HIV-positive gay men.

White L(1), Cant B.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, South Bank University, London, UK.

The present pilot study explored the experiences of social support on the part 
of a number of HIV-positive gay men. It drew upon the growing body of literature 
that highlights links between social support, and the health and well-being of 
people with chronic illnesses. In particular, it drew upon the way in which 
social network analysis can be used to illustrate patterns of both emotional 
support and instrumental support. The study informants were 30 HIV-positive gay 
men who were recruited through community support organisations which they 
accessed at the time of the study. The findings highlighted patterns of support 
among members of this marginalised community. At a time when access to treatment 
is extending the life expectancy of people infected with HIV and when, in the UK 
at least, there are major changes in the funding of HIV services, this paper 
raises pertinent questions about the impact of social support on people 
