suffering from this illness and about the development of appropriate services.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2524.2003.00431.x
PMID: 14629204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Biomed Sci. 2003 Nov-Dec;10(6 Pt 2):766-73. doi: 10.1159/000073964.

Use of gain-of-function study to delineate the roles of crumbs in Drosophila eye 
development.

Fan SS(1), Chen MS, Lin JF, Chao WT, Yang VC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Life Science Research Center, Tunghai University, 
Taichung, Taiwan, ROC.

The cell polarity gene, crumbs (crb)), has been shown to participate in the 
development and degeneration of the Drosophila retina. Mutations in CRB1, the 
human homologue of Drosophila crb, also result in retinitis pigmentosa and Leber 
congenital amaurosis. In this study, we used the gain-of-function approach to 
delineate the roles of CRB in developing Drosophila eye. In the third-instar 
larval stage, eye development is initiated with photoreceptor differentiation 
and positioning of photoreceptor nuclei in the apical cellular compartment of 
retinal epithelium. In the pupal stage, differentiated photoreceptors begin to 
form the photosensitive structures, the rhabdomeres, at their apical surface. 
Using GMR-Gal4 to drive overexpression of the Crb protein at the third-instar 
eye disc, we found that differentiation of photoreceptors was disrupted and the 
nuclei of differentiated photoreceptors failed to occupy the apical compartment. 
Using HS-Gal4 to drive Crb overexpression in pupal eyes resulted in interference 
with extension of the adherens junctions and construction of the rhabdomeres, 
and these defects were stage-dependent. This gain-of-function study has enabled 
us to delineate the roles of Crb at selective stages of eye development in 
Drosophila.

Copyright 2003 National Science Council, ROC and S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000073964
PMID: 14631116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Kidney Int. 2003 Dec;64(6):2222-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00321.x.

Effect of starting with hemodialysis compared with peritoneal dialysis in 
patients new on dialysis treatment: a randomized controlled trial.

Korevaar JC(1), Feith GW, Dekker FW, van Manen JG, Boeschoten EW, Bossuyt PM, 
Krediet RT; NECOSAD Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Academic Medical 
Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.korevaar@amc.uva.nl

BACKGROUND: Up-until-now, the survival and health-related quality of life of 
hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients has only been compared in 
observational studies. These studies have reported small and opposing 
differences between both modalities. The aim of this study was to compare the 
outcome of hemodialysis as initial chronic dialysis treatment with that of 
peritoneal dialysis in a randomized controlled trial.
METHODS: All new dialysis patients from 38 dialysis centers in The Netherlands 
without indications against either modality were invited to participate. 
Patients were assigned to start with hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. The 
primary outcome was mean quality-adjusted life year (QALY) score. Secondary 
outcome was survival.
RESULTS: Due to the low inclusion rate, the trial was prematurely stopped after 
which 38 patients had been randomized: 18 patients to hemodialysis and 20 to 
peritoneal dialysis. The mean QALY score in the first 2 years was 59.1 (SD 12) 
for hemodialysis patients versus 54.0 (SD 19) for peritoneal dialysis patients, 
which constitutes a small difference in favor of hemodialysis of 5.1 (95%CI -7.3 
to 17.6) After 5 years of follow-up, nine hemodialysis and five peritoneal 
dialysis patients had died, a significant difference in survival; hazard ration 
of hemodialysis versus peritoneal dialysis of 3.8 (95%CI 1.1 to 12.6). After 
adjustment for age, comorbidity, and primary kidney disease the hazard ratio was 
3.6 (0.8 to 15.4).
CONCLUSION: Only a small difference in QALY score was observed between patients 
who started with hemodialysis compared to patients who started with peritoneal 
dialysis, lending support for the equivalence hypothesis. The significant 
difference in longer-term survival, which favored peritoneal dialysis in this 
small group of patients, could be used to posit that incident dialysis patients 
might benefit from starting on peritoneal dialysis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00321.x
PMID: 14633146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Anesth Analg. 2003 Dec;97(6):1740-1742. doi:
10.1213/01.ANE.0000086725.01761.8B.

Epidural analgesia at end of life: facing empirical contraindications.

Exner HJ(1), Peters J, Eikermann M.

Author information:
(1)*Keski-Suomen Saivaanhoitopiiri, Anestesiologia ja tehohoito, Jyväskylä, 
Finland; and †Klinik für Anästhesiologie und Intensivmedizin, 
Universitätsklinikum Essen, Essen, Germany.

Comment in
    Anesth Analg. 2004 May;98(5):1503; auhtor reply 1503-4.
    Anesth Analg. 2005 Feb;100(2):600; author reply 600-1.

In a patient with unbearable cancer pain at the end of life, long-lasting 
analgesia without impairment of consciousness could only be achieved with an 
epidural infusion of local anesthetics combined with opioids and clonidine. 
Despite leptomeningeal infection during prolonged treatment, epidural analgesia 
at the lumbar level provided analgesia using very large doses of local 
anesthetics combined with clonidine and morphine. Thus, terminal sedation was 
avoided, allowing the patient's end-of-life planning of an "aware" death 
surrounded by her family. It may be useful to reconsider institutional pain 
management standards when unbearable pain occurs in patients with limited life 
expectancy.
IMPLICATIONS: We report a patient with severe visceral and neurogenic pain from 
metastatic carcinoma of the colon resistant to multimodal oral analgesic 
therapy. Although there were empirical contraindications, epidural analgesia was 
successful, allowing the patient's end-of-life planning of an "aware" death 
surrounded by the family.

DOI: 10.1213/01.ANE.0000086725.01761.8B
PMID: 14633552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Gut. 2003 Dec;52(12):1752-5. doi: 10.1136/gut.52.12.1752.

Decision analysis in the surgical treatment of colorectal cancer due to a 
mismatch repair gene defect.

de Vos tot Nederveen Cappel WH(1), Buskens E, van Duijvendijk P, Cats A, Menko 
FH, Griffioen G, Slors JF, Nagengast FM, Kleibeuker JH, Vasen HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Leiden University Medical Centre Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Gut. 2005 Jan;54(1):169.

BACKGROUND: In view of the high risk of developing a new primary colorectal 
carcinoma (CRC), subtotal colectomy rather than segmental resection or 
hemicolectomy is the preferred treatment in hereditary non-polyposis colorectal 
cancer (HNPCC) patients. Subtotal colectomy however implies a substantial 
decrease in quality of life. To date, colonoscopic surveillance has been shown 
to reduce CRC occurrence.
AIMS: To compare the potential health effects in terms of life expectancy (LE) 
for patients undergoing subtotal colectomy or hemicolectomy for CRC.
METHODS: A decision analysis (Markov) model was created. Information on the 10 
year risk of CRC after subtotal colectomy (4%) and hemicolectomy (16%) and 
stages of CRCs detected within a two year surveillance interval (32% Dukes' A, 
54% Dukes' B, and 14% Dukes' C) were derived from two cohort studies. Five year 
survival rates used for the different Dukes stages (A, B, and C) were 98%, 80%, 
and 60%, respectively. Remaining LE values were calculated for hypothetical 
cohorts with an age at CRC diagnosis of 27, 47, and 67 years, respectively. 
Remaining LE values were also calculated for patients with CRC of Dukes' stage 
A.
RESULTS: The overall LE gain of subtotal colectomy compared with hemicolectomy 
at ages 27, 47, and 67 was 2.3, 1, and 0.3 years, respectively. Specifically for 
Dukes' stage A, this would be 3.4, 1.5, and 0.4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Unless surveillance results improve, subtotal colectomy still seems 
the preferred treatment for CRC in HNPCC in view of the difference in LE. For 
older patients, hemicolectomy may be an option as there is no appreciable 
difference in LE.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.52.12.1752
PMCID: PMC1773904
PMID: 14633956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Urol. 2003 Dec;170(6 Pt 1):2279-83. doi: 10.1097/01.ju.0000094190.46523.b2.

Predictors of treatment after initial surveillance in men with prostate cancer: 
results from CaPSURE.

Meng MV(1), Elkin EP, Harlan SR, Mehta SS, Lubeck DP, Carroll PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California-San Francisco/Mt. Zion Cancer 
Center, 94143-0738, USA. mmeng@urol.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: Expectant management of prostate cancer or watchful waiting (WW) is a 
reasonable option for some men with clinically localized prostate cancer. We 
identified predictors of eventual prostate cancer treatment in a cohort of men 
initially choosing WW.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We identified 457 men in the Cancer of the Prostate 
Strategic Urologic Research Endeavor data base selecting WW as initial 
management without subsequent treatment for at least 6 months. A subset of these 
men eventually received active treatment for prostate cancer. These groups were 
compared with respect to baseline clinical, sociodemographic characteristics and 
followup prostate specific antigen (PSA) characteristics using Kaplan-Meier life 
tables and Cox proportional hazards models to determine predictors of active 
treatment after WW.
RESULTS: Of the 457 men initially on WW 188 (41%) went on to active treatment at 
a median of 1.7 years after diagnosis. Baseline characteristics associated with 
progression to active treatment included younger age, higher level of formal 
education, higher PSA and higher Gleason grade. Actuarial freedom from treatment 
(that is continued WW) was 74% at 2, 63% at 3 and 49% at 5 years with androgen 
deprivation the most common form of therapy (72%). Men progressing to treatment 
had higher baseline and followup PSA as well as a significantly greater PSA 
change that those remaining on WW (7.2 vs -0.4 ng/ml). Other measures of PSA 
dynamics also predicted eventual active treatment. These observations persisted 
in multivariate models.
CONCLUSIONS: WW is an appropriate and common form of treatment in many men with 
prostate cancer and about half remain on WW at 5 years. Our analysis of national 
practice patterns identified demographic, clinical and PSA characteristics 
associated with men who continue with this modality. Conversely these factors 
may help determine which men (for example higher risk/PSA) ultimately receive 
active treatment despite initial treatment preference and allow investigation of 
the effects of these interventions on cancer outcomes and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000094190.46523.b2
PMID: 14634396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2003 Nov;189(5):1228-33. doi: 
10.1067/s0002-9378(03)00778-6.

Decision analysis of hormone replacement therapy after the Women's Health 
Initiative.

Kim C(1), Kwok YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to estimate the quality-adjusted life 
expectancy with and without hormone replacement therapy.
STUDY DESIGN: We compared the quality-adjusted life expectancy with and without 
combination hormone replacement therapy in three cohorts of women with 
menopausal symptoms over a 20-year period using a Markov decision-analysis 
model. Women were either at high or low risk for breast cancer and coronary 
heart disease or at high risk for osteoporosis.
RESULTS: Hormone replacement therapy decreases life expectancy slightly compared 
with no hormone replacement therapy if menopausal symptoms are not considered. 
However, if relief from menopausal symptoms is considered and the usefulness of 
life with symptoms is worth <0.996 compared with life without symptoms, then 5 
years of hormone replacement therapy provides equivalent quality-adjusted 
life-years.
CONCLUSION: Combination hormone replacement therapy decreases life expectancy if 
quality of life with menopausal symptoms is not considered. However, the benefit 
of hormone replacement therapy can exceed the risk for women with menopausal 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1067/s0002-9378(03)00778-6
PMID: 14634545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. S Afr Med J. 2003 Sep;93(9):682-8.

Initial burden of disease estimates for South Africa, 2000.

Bradshaw D(1), Groenewald P, Laubscher R, Nannan N, Nojilana B, Norman R, 
Pieterse D, Schneider M, Bourne DE, Timaeus IM, Dorrington R, Johnson L.

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Research Unit, Medical Research Council of South Africa, 
Tygerberg, W Cape.

BACKGROUND: This paper describes the first national burden of disease study for 
South Africa. The main focus is the burden due to premature mortality, i.e. 
years of life lost (YLLs). In addition, estimates of the burden contributed by 
morbidity, i.e. the years lived with disability (YLDs), are obtained to 
calculate disability-adjusted life years (DALYs); and the impact of AIDS on 
premature mortality in the year 2010 is assessed.
METHOD: Owing to the rapid mortality transition and the lack of timely data, a 
modelling approach has been adopted. The total mortality for the year 2000 is 
estimated using a demographic and AIDS model. The non-AIDS cause-of-death 
profile is estimated using three sources of data: Statistics South Africa, the 
National Department of Home Affairs, and the National Injury Mortality 
Surveillance System. A ratio method is used to estimate the YLDs from the YLL 
estimates.
RESULTS: The top single cause of mortality burden was HIV/AIDS followed by 
homicide, tuberculosis, road traffic accidents and diarrhoea. HIV/AIDS accounted 
for 38% of total YLLs, which is proportionately higher for females (47%) than 
for males (33%). Pre-transitional diseases, usually associated with poverty and 
underdevelopment, accounted for 25%, non-communicable diseases 21% and injuries 
16% of YLLs. The DALY estimates highlight the fact that mortality alone 
underestimates the burden of disease, especially with regard to unintentional 
injuries, respiratory disease, and nervous system, mental and sense organ 
disorders. The impact of HIV/AIDS is expected to more than double the burden of 
premature mortality by the year 2010.
CONCLUSION: This study has drawn together data from a range of sources to 
develop coherent estimates of premature mortality by cause. South Africa is 
experiencing a quadruple burden of disease comprising the pre-transitional 
diseases, the emerging chronic diseases, injuries, and HIV/AIDS. Unless 
interventions that reduce morbidity and delay morbidity become widely available, 
the burden due to HIV/AIDS can be expected to grow very rapidly in the next few 
years. An improved base of information is needed to assess the morbidity impact 
more accurately.

PMID: 14635557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Epilepsia. 2003 Nov;44(11):1445-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1528-1157.2003.09203.x.

Epilepsy and multiple sclerosis in Sicily: a population-based study.

Nicoletti A(1), Sofia V, Biondi R, Lo Fermo S, Reggio E, Patti F, Reggio A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. 
anicol@dimtel.nti.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the association between epilepsy and multiple sclerosis 
(MS), we analyzed the incidence of epilepsy in a population-based incidence 
cohort of MS in Catania, Sicily.
METHODS: According to Poser's diagnostic criteria, 170 incident cases of MS have 
been identified from 1975 to 1994 in the city of Catania. All these subjects 
underwent a complete neurological examination to confirm the diagnosis of MS and 
to identify those patients with a history of seizures. Diagnosis of epilepsy was 
based on the criteria proposed by the International League Against Epilepsy 
(ILAE) in 1993, and seizures were classified according to the classification of 
the ILAE, 1981.
RESULTS: From 1975 to 1994, 170 subjects with MS had the clinical onset of the 
disease. The mean annual incidence of MS was 2.3/100,000 (95% CI, 2.0-2.6). Of 
the 170 defined MS patients, four developed epilepsy after the onset and also 
diagnosis of MS, giving an incidence rate of epilepsy of 285/100,000 person 
years at risk (95% CI, 119-684) and 147.8/100,000 when age adjusted to the world 
standard population. The cumulative risk of developing epilepsy after the onset 
of MS, evaluated by using the life-table methods, was zero at 1 year and 1.76% 
at 5 years. Of these four patients, three were classified as having partial 
seizures with secondary generalization and one with tonic-clonic seizures.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data are consistent with those reported in literature 
suggesting that the risk of developing epilepsy is threefold higher among MS 
patients than in the general population.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1528-1157.2003.09203.x
PMID: 14636354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2003 Dec;13(6):476-87. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2003.08.008.

Pharmacological treatments for heroin and cocaine addiction.

van den Brink W(1), van Ree JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Tafelbergweg 25, 1105 BC Amsterdam, The Netherlands. wvandenbrink@amc.uva.nl

AIMS: To provide an overview of the pharmacological options for the treatment of 
heroin- and cocaine-dependent patients based on known biochemical pathways to 
addiction and the chronic disease model as a starting point for treatment 
planning.
RESULTS: Recent pre-clinical and clinical studies indicate that different brain 
structures and different neurotransmitters are involved in different stages of 
the addiction process. In addition, clinical experience shows that heroin and 
cocaine addiction can best be conceptualised and treated as a chronic, relapsing 
disorder with the following treatment goals: crisis intervention, cure or 
recovery (detoxification, relapse prevention) and care or partial remission 
(stabilization and harm reduction). The various high-quality studies, systematic 
literature reviews and formal meta-analyses clearly demonstrate that today many 
proven effective interventions are available for crisis intervention, 
detoxification, stabilization and harm reduction for heroin-dependent patients. 
Interventions directed at relapse prevention are still problematic and only 
effective in a minority of motivated patients in stable living conditions and 
adequate social support. In contrast, no proven effective pharmacological 
interventions are available for the treatment of cocaine-dependent patients, 
maybe with the exception of some patient groups that seem to benefit from 
treatment with disulfiram or amantadine. Treatment innovations are primarily 
based on experimental animal studies. Newly developed cannabinoid receptor 
antagonists and cortisol synthesis inhibitors show great promise.
CONCLUSION: Heroin addiction is a chronic relapsing disease that is difficult to 
cure, but stabilization and harm reduction can greatly increase the life time 
expectancy and the quality of life of the patient, his direct environment and 
society as a whole. Currently, no proven effective pharmacological interventions 
are available for cocaine addiction, and treatment has to rely on existing 
cognitive behaviour therapies combined with contingency management strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2003.08.008
PMID: 14636964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Mutat Res. 2003 Oct 29;531(1-2):191-203. doi: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2003.07.006.

Miscoding properties of 1,N6-ethanoadenine, a DNA adduct derived from reaction 
with the antitumor agent 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea.

Hang B(1), Chenna A, Guliaev AB, Singer B.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Erratum in
    Mutat Res. 2004 Feb 26;546(1-2):105.

1,N(6)-Ethanoadenine (EA) is an exocyclic adduct formed from DNA reaction with 
the antitumor agent, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). To understand 
the role of this adduct in the mechanism of mutagenicity or carcinogenicity by 
BCNU, an oligonucleotide with a site-specific EA was synthesized using 
phosphoramidite chemistry. We now report the in vitro miscoding properties of EA 
in translesion DNA synthesis catalyzed by mammalian DNA polymerases (pols) 
alpha, beta, eta and iota. These data were also compared with those obtained for 
the structurally related exocyclic adduct, 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine (epsilonA). 
Using a primer extension assay, both pols alpha and beta were primarily blocked 
by EA or epsilonA with very minor extension. Pol eta, a member of the Y family 
of polymerases, was capable of catalyzing a significant amount of bypass across 
both adducts. Pol eta incorporated all four nucleotides opposite EA and 
epsilonA, but with differential preferences and mainly in an error-prone manner. 
Human pol iota, a paralog of human pol eta, was blocked by both adducts with a 
very small amount of synthesis past epsilonA. It incorporated C and, to a much 
lesser extent, T, opposite either adduct. In addition, the presence of an A 
adduct, e.g. epsilonA, could affect the specificity of pol iota toward the 
template T immediately 3' to the adduct. In conclusion, the four polymerases 
assayed on templates containing an EA or epsilonA showed differential bypass 
capacity and nucleotide incorporation specificity, with the two adducts not 
completely identical in influencing these properties. Although there was a 
measurable extent of error-free nucleotide incorporation, all these polymerases 
primarily misincorporated opposite EA, indicating that the adduct, similar to 
epsilonA, is a miscoding lesion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2003.07.006
PMID: 14637255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Am J Gastroenterol. 2003 Nov;98(11):2354-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.t01-1-08735.x.

Economic and clinical effects of evaluating rapid viral response to 
peginterferon alfa-2b plus ribavirin for the initial treatment of chronic 
hepatitis C.

Wong JB(1), Davis GL, McHutchison JG, Manns MP, Albrecht JK; International 
Hepatitis Interventional Therapy Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Department of Medicine, Tupper Research 
Institute, Tufts-New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Evaluation of 12-wk viral response to initial antiviral therapy for 
chronic hepatitis C has been recommended to minimize antiviral-associated 
morbidity and costs. The aim of this study was to examine the economic and 
clinical effects of evaluating rapid viral response during antiviral therapy for 
treatment naive chronic hepatitis C patients.
METHODS: We applied viral response and drug dosage from an international 
randomized clinical trial of ribavirin plus peginterferon alfa-2b or ribavirin 
plus interferon alfa-2b to a previously published computer cohort simulation to 
project lifelong clinical and economic outcomes. Natural history and economic 
estimates were based on published literature, expert panel estimates, and actual 
variable and reimbursement cost data.
RESULTS: The assessment of 12-wk rapid viral response reduced antiviral 
treatment duration by 40-44% and antiviral costs by 44-45% (savings of 
$15,116-16,268 for peginterferon plus ribavirin and $8300 for interferon plus 
ribavirin) compared to full 48-wk dosing. With the 12-wk evaluation, the 
marginal cost-effectiveness of peginterferon plus ribavirin versus interferon 
plus ribavirin was $13,600-22,800 compared with $14,600-25,000 per discounted 
quality adjusted life-year gained with the 24-wk evaluation. For genotype 1, 
hepatitis C infected patients, 12-wk testing for peginterferon plus ribavirin 
remaining preferred and cost-effective compared with interferon plus ribavirin. 
For genotype 2 or 3, hepatitis C infected patients, 12-wk testing yielded 
similar results to those of 24-wk treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of 12-wk viral response in genotype 1, hepatitis C 
infected patients should reduce peginterferon plus ribavirin morbidity and costs 
and improve its cost-effectiveness; however, for genotype 2 and 3, hepatitis C 
infected patients, 12-wk testing and 24-wk treatment have similar outcomes. 
Decisions regarding continuation of antiviral treatment should also consider the 
variability in the accuracy of quantitative viral assays as well as patient 
preferences and other potential benefits of the same treatments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2003.t01-1-08735.x
PMID: 14638334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Eur J Endocrinol. 2003 Dec;149(6):577-82. doi: 10.1530/eje.0.1490577.

Do patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 1 benefit from 
periodical screening?

Geerdink EA(1), Van der Luijt RB, Lips CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Centre Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the benefit of periodical clinical screening of carriers 
of a mutation in the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1) gene, because 
any useful discussion requires more concrete data.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Our study population consisted of all the patients with 
MEN-1 (n=58) who were treated at the University Medical Centre Utrecht, The 
Netherlands, during the period 1975-2003, and their affected relatives (n=29). 
Records of affected individuals who died were analysed for morbidity, cause of 
death and age at death. We discuss our results in the light of the literature on 
MEN-1 regarding the benefit of screening.
RESULTS: Over a period of 28 Years, we identified 87 individuals affected with 
MEN-1, from 16 families. A mutation in the MEN-1 gene was detected in 57%, 18% 
were obligate carriers, and in 24% the diagnosis was only clinically confirmed. 
Thirty individuals died, 17 from MEN-1-related causes, including malignancies 
(n=12: pancreatic islet cell tumours n=6 and carcinoid tumours n=6), the 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (n=4) and Cushing's disease (n=1). The remaining 
patients died of causes probably related to MEN-1 (n=3), unrelated to MEN-1 
(n=7) or of unknown causes. Mean ages at death from MEN-1 were 55.4 Years for 
men and 46.8 Years for women, in both cases significantly lower than the mean 
age at death in the average Dutch population (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: We feel that the significantly increased risk of premature death 
found in patients with MEN-1 justifies the periodical clinical screening of 
carriers of the MEN-1 gene mutation. Early detection and treatment of 
abnormalities will probably reduce this risk.

DOI: 10.1530/eje.0.1490577
PMID: 14641000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Biochem Soc Trans. 2003 Dec;31(Pt 6):1305-7. doi: 10.1042/bst0311305.

Oxidative stress and aging--the use of superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics to 
extend lifespan.

Sampayo JN(1), Gill MS, Lithgow GJ.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, CA 94945, U.S.A.

To date, more than 40 genes have been identified in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans, which, when mutated, lead to an increase in lifespan. Of those tested, 
all confer an increased resistance to oxidative stress. In addition, the 
lifespan of C. elegans can also be extended by the administration of synthetic 
superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics. These compounds also appear to confer 
resistance to oxidative damage, since they protect against paraquat treatment. 
The protective effects of these compounds are apparent with treatment during 
either development or adulthood. These findings have demonstrated that 
pharmacological intervention in the aging process is possible and that these 
compounds can provide important information about the underlying mechanisms. To 
date, such interventions have targeted known processes rather than screening 
compound libraries because of the limitations of assessing lifespan in 
nematodes. However, we have recently developed a microplate-based assay that 
allows for a rapid and objective score of nematode survival at rates many times 
higher than previously possible. This system now provides the opportunity to 
perform high-throughput screens for compounds that affect nematode survival in 
the face of acute oxidative stress and will facilitate the identification of 
novel drugs that extend nematode lifespan.

DOI: 10.1042/bst0311305
PMID: 14641049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Clin Lab Haematol. 2003 Dec;25(6):383-91. doi:
10.1046/j.0141-9854.2003.00550.x.

Nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide 
for patients with hematologic malignancies.

Nakajima H(1), Oki M, Kishi K, Ueyama J, Miyakoshi S, Hatsumi N, Sakura T, 
Miyawaki S, Yokota A, Fujisawa S, Mori S, Tanaka Y, Sakamaki H; Kanto Study 
Group for Cell Therapy.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Medical Oncology, Tokai University School of Medicine, 
Boseidai, Isehara, Japan.

We conducted a multi-center phase I/II trial of nonmyeloablative stem cell 
transplantation for patients with hematologic malignancies. The aim of this 
trial was to assess the safety and feasibility of this treatment modality for 
older or younger patients with significant organ dysfunction, who could not be 
treated with conventional high dose chemoradiotherapy. Twelve patients were 
treated with a conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide, followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation from 
human leukocyte antigen (HLA) identical siblings. Nonhematologic toxicities were 
mild. Median time to absolute neutrophils above 0.5 x 10(9)/l, 1.0 x 10(9)/l and 
platelets above 50 x 10(9)/l were 8, 10 and 12 days, respectively. Donor 
dominant hematopoiesis was achieved in all patients, with or without donor 
leukocyte infusion. The cumulative incidence of acute and chronic 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was 75 and 56%, respectively. Only one patient 
experienced early death within 100 days, caused by acute GVHD complicated by 
fungal infection. All patients except one achieved complete remission. With a 
median follow-up of 330 days, expected progression-free survival is 75%. Overall 
survival is 76%. Our study confirms that nonmyeloablative stem cell 
transplantation with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine conditioning is a safe and 
promising treatment for elderly patients with hematologic malignancies. A 
further study in large-scale setting is warranted.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0141-9854.2003.00550.x
PMID: 14641143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Eur J Neurol. 2003 Nov;10(6):687-94. doi: 10.1046/j.1351-5101.2003.00701.x.

Cost-utility analysis of intravenous immunoglobulin and prednisolone for chronic 
inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy.

McCrone P(1), Chisholm D, Knapp M, Hughes R, Comi G, Dalakas MC, Illa I, 
Kilindireas C, Nobile-Orazio E, Swan A, Van den Bergh P, Willison HJ; INCAT 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Health Services Research 
Department, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, UK. 
p.mccrone@iop.kcl.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to provide an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis 
comparing intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) and prednisolone treatment for 
chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Patients were 
recruited to a double-blind randomized crossover trial from nine European 
centres and received either prednisolone or IVIg during the first 6-week 
treatment period on which the economic evaluation was based. A societal 
perspective was adopted in measuring service use and costs, although the costs 
of lost employment were not included. The main outcome measure in the economic 
evaluation was the number of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, with 
change in a 11-point disability scale used to measure clinical outcomes. Service 
use and quality of life data were available for 25 patients. Baseline costs were 
controlled for using a bootstrapped multiple regression model. The cost 
difference between the two treatments was estimated to be euro 3754 over the 
6-week period. Health-related quality of life, as measured by the EuroQol EQ-5D 
instrument, increased more in the IVIg group but the difference was not 
statistically significant. Using a net-benefit approach it was shown that the 
probability of IVIg being cost-effective in comparison with prednisolone was 0.5 
or above (i.e. was more likely to be cost-effective than cost-ineffective) only 
if one QALY was valued at over euro 250 000. The cost-effectiveness of IVIg is 
greatly affected by the price of IVIg and the amount administered. The impact of 
later side-effects of prednisolone on long-term costs and quality of life are 
likely to reduce the cost per QALY of IVIg treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1351-5101.2003.00701.x
PMID: 14641514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Pediatr Neurol. 2003 Oct;29(4):278-83. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(03)00266-2.

Nucleated red blood cell counts: not associated with brain injury or outcome.

Hamrick SE(1), Miller SP, Newton NR, Parer JT, Ferriero DM, Barkovich AJ, 
Partridge JC.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pediatrics, San Francisco, California, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatr Neurol. 2004 Jul;31(1):76; author reply 76-7.

The objective was to determine whether an elevated nucleated red blood cell 
count at birth after perinatal depression is associated with brain injury as 
measured by (1) proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and (2) abnormal 
neurodevelopmental outcome at 30 months of age. The nucleated red blood cell 
counts from the first 24 hours of life were statistically analyzed in 33 term 
infants enrolled in a prospective study of the value of magnetic resonance 
imaging for the determination of neurodevelopmental outcome after perinatal 
depression. Nucleated red blood cell counts were elevated in 13/33 (39%). 
Abnormal outcome (19/33, 54%) was associated with Score for Neonatal Acute 
Physiology-Perinatal Extension (P = 0.04), decreased N-acetylaspartate to 
choline ratio in the basal ganglia (P = 0.009), and increased lactate to choline 
ratio in the basal ganglia (P = 0.02), but not with cord pH, Apgar score, or 
nucleated red blood cell value. In a logistic regression model, increasing 
nucleated red blood cell counts did not increase the odds of an abnormal outcome 
at 30 months of age (OR 1.02, P = 0.17). In a population of neonates with 
perinatal depression, the nucleated red blood cell count at birth does not 
correlate with magnetic resonance spectroscopy or 30-month neurodevelopmental 
outcome. The nucleated red blood cell count should not be used as a surrogate 
marker for subsequent brain injury.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(03)00266-2
PMID: 14643387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Am J Hypertens. 2003 Dec;16(12):1074-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amjhyper.2003.07.019.

Experimental evidence for blood pressure-independent vascular effects of high 
sodium diet.

Simon G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, VA Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55410, USA. 
simo0038@tc.umn.edu

The two physiologic mechanisms that may be responsible for the adverse 
cardiovascular effects of long-term high sodium diet without increasing blood 
pressure (BP) are increased blood flow and increased extracellular sodium 
concentration. The first dilates arteries, and the second may impact on vascular 
reactivity and growth. The experimental evidence for these two mechanisms was 
critically reviewed, distinguishing between the administration of 
physiologically relevant and potentially toxic doses of dietary sodium. There is 
evidence that a high sodium diet results in dilatation and reduced 
distensibility of arteries. There is also evidence for an increase of plasma 
sodium concentration during a high-sodium diet (2 to 5 mmol/L) that may be 
sufficient to stimulate vascular reactivity and growth. An increase in 
transmembrane sodium gradient of vascular muscle and increased affinity of 
receptors for agonists may be the underlying mechanisms. Further experimental 
evidence is needed to convince the scientific community that lifelong high 
sodium intake expedites cardiovascular aging and reduces life expectancy 
independently of its effect on BP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjhyper.2003.07.019
PMID: 14643585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Public Health. 2004 Jan;118(1):3-10. doi: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00130-6.

Socio-economic inequalities in health expectancy in Belgium.

Bossuyt N(1), Gadeyne S, Deboosere P, Van Oyen H.

Author information:
(1)Scientific Institute of Public Health, Unit of Epidemiology, J. Wytsmanstraat 
14, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium. nathalie.bossuyt@iph.fgov.be

Various international studies have demonstrated socio-economic differences in 
health. Linking the 1991 Census to the National Register and using the Health 
Interview Survey 1997 has enabled assessment of the association between the 
level of education and health in Belgium using the composite indicator 'health 
expectancy'. The Sullivan method was used to calculate health expectancy on the 
basis of current probability of death and prevalence of perceived health. Two 
measures of educational attainment were used: absolute educational attainment 
and the position on a relative hierarchical educational scale obtained by a 
regression-based method. The latter measure enables international comparisons. 
Differences in health expectancy by education were spread over the whole range 
of the educational hierarchy, and were consistently larger among females than 
males. At 25 years of age, the difference in health expectancy between different 
levels of education reached up to 17.8 and 24.7 years in males and females, 
respectively. Compared with people with the highest educational attainment, 
males and females at the lowest level of education spent more than 10 and 20 
additional years in poor perceived health, respectively. Between ages 25 and 75 
years, the difference in health expectancy between people with the lowest and 
highest levels of education was 17 years among males and 21 years among females. 
Compared with people at the top of the relative educational scale, males and 
females at the bottom of the scale had 13.6 and 19.7 additional years in poor 
perceived health, respectively. The conclusions of this study in Belgium are 
consistent with studies in other countries. People with a low level of education 
have shorter lives than people with a higher level of education. They also have 
fewer years in good perceived health, and can expect more years in poor health 
in their shorter lives. The inequality in health expectancy seems to be greater 
in females than males.

DOI: 10.1016/S0033-3506(03)00130-6
PMID: 14643622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Curr Opin Pharmacol. 2003 Dec;3(6):672-7. doi: 10.1016/j.coph.2003.07.007.

Medical treatment in acromegaly.

Paisley AN(1), Trainer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Wilmslow Road, Manchester M20 
4BX, UK.

Acromegaly is a rare disabling disorder that results in premature death. The 
excess mortality and morbidity are the result of prolonged elevation of growth 
hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) levels, and vigorous 
control of these improves well-being and restores life expectancy to normal. 
Recognition of the benefits of treatment has emphasised the need for optimal 
control of the GH/IGF-I axis. Transsphenoidal surgery is first-line therapy in 
the majority of patients; however, as most tumours are macroadenomas, cure rates 
are low. The role of radiotherapy is evolving and, although extremely effective 
at controlling tumour growth, it can take up to 15 years to control GH & IGF-I 
levels. In the interim, medical therapy is necessary. Dopamine agonists are 
inexpensive oral agents but, although most patients experience some benefit, GH 
and IGF-I levels are only normalised in around 35-40% of patients, and side 
effects are common. Somatostatin analogues are the gold standard of medical 
treatment. They can induce tumour shrinkage in a proportion of patients and can 
normalise the GH/IGF-I axis (at best) in approximately 65% of individuals; 
however, this leaves a significant cohort uncontrolled. The advent of the GH 
receptor antagonist pegvisomant provides the potential for IGF-I to be 
normalised in virtually every patient, but this novel form of therapy, which 
does not act on the pituitary, also raises many questions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coph.2003.07.007
PMID: 14644022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Ophthalmology. 2003 Dec;110(12):2310-7. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00796-6.

Cost-utility analysis of cataract surgery in the second eye.

Busbee BG(1), Brown MM, Brown GC, Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Health Care Economics, Wills Eye Hospital, 
Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. bgbusbee@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To perform a reference case cost-utility analysis of second-eye 
cataract surgery by using the current literature on cataract outcomes and 
complications.
DESIGN: Computer-based econometric modeling.
METHODS: Visual acuity data of patients treated and observed over a 4-month 
postoperative period were obtained from the U.S. National Cataract Patient 
Outcomes Research Team report. The results from this prospective study were 
combined with those of other studies that investigated the complication rates of 
cataract surgery to complete the cohort of patients and outcomes. These 
synthesized data were incorporated with time trade-off utility values, which 
accounted for prior successful cataract surgery in the fellow eye. Cost-utility 
determinations were made with decision analysis, and present value modeling was 
used to account for the time value of money and health state consequences.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained 
was calculated for the study group undergoing second-eye cataract surgery, 
assuming that the postoperative vision in the second eye was equivalent to the 
vision in the first eye after surgery (20/27). This was divided into the cost of 
the procedure to find the number of year 2001 nominal U.S. dollars spent per 
QALY gained.
RESULTS: Second-eye cataract surgery, as compared with unilateral pseudophakia, 
resulted in a mean gain of 1.31 undiscounted QALYs per patient treated. A 3% 
annual discount rate, dependent on the duration of benefit, was used, yielding 
0.92 discounted QALYs gained over a 12-year life expectancy. The mean discounted 
cost of treatment for each patient totaled 2509 US dollars. The cost divided by 
the QALYs gained (benefit) resulted in 2727 US dollars per QALY gained for this 
procedure. Sensitivity analysis varying costs and utility values revealed a 
range from 2045 US dollars to 3649 US dollars per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Second-eye cataract surgery is an extremely cost-effective 
procedure when compared with other interventions across medical specialties. The 
cost-effectiveness of second-eye surgery diminishes only slightly from the 2023 
US dollars per QALY gained from first-eye cataract surgery. This suggests that 
patients with good vision in one eye and visual loss from cataract in the fellow 
eye derive substantial benefit from cataract extraction.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(03)00796-6
PMID: 14644712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. BMJ. 2003 Nov 29;327(7426):1237-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7426.1237.

What do we gain from the sixth coronary heart disease drug?

Warburton RN.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2004 Feb 14;328(7436):405; author reply 405.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2003 Nov 29;327(7426):1264.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7426.1237
PMCID: PMC286232
PMID: 14644934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Sci Aging Knowledge Environ. 2003 Nov 26;2003(47):ns7. doi: 
10.1126/sageke.2003.47.ns7.

Rising expectations.

Leslie M.

DOI: 10.1126/sageke.2003.47.ns7
PMID: 14645857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2003 Nov;132(3):183-95. doi: 10.1159/000074299.

HIV/AIDS in Central Africa: pathogenesis, immunological and medical issues.

Sibanda EN(1), Stanczuk G, Kasolo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Zimbabwe College of Medicine, Harare, 
Zimbabwe. esibanda@africaonline.co.zw

The estimated worldwide prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infections topped 52.5 million in June 2003, a mere 20 years after the 
aetiological agent was shown to be a sexually transmissible virus with a 
predilection for CD4+ T lymphocytes. More than 22 million people have died of 
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the condition has in one 
generation become the most devastating and persistent epidemics in recorded 
history. More than two thirds of the world total of HIV-infected people live in 
Sub-Saharan Africa. In Central and Southern Africa at least 20% of the adult 
population is infected. As these adults die, they leave increasing numbers of 
orphans. Life expectancy at birth declined by 10 years per decade since the late 
1980s to 50 years in the late 1990s, and in Botswana it is estimated to be as 
low as 33 years by 2010. The epidemic is increasing unabated and prospects for a 
curative or protective vaccine remain remote. The impact on HIV in Africa has 
been so profound that it influences political, economic, agriculture/food 
security, social, education, defence, science and health considerations. The 
medical and in particular immunology communities in Central Africa have the 
invidious challenge of on the one hand diagnosing the condition, monitoring its 
impact and contributing to treatment and management efforts. The science and 
clinical practice of immunology is challenged to find answers to the epidemic, 
perhaps including a vaccine. In this review we address the peculiarities of the 
HIV epidemic in Africa, its epidemiology and immunopathogenesis. We address the 
effect of the epidemic on individual patients, in their homes, workplaces and 
the knock-on effects on families and friends of the infected. Respective 
specialists discuss special groups (women, children) that are predominantly seen 
in Africa. We also discuss the impact of the epidemic on the clinical practice 
of medicine in general and challenges faced in the introduction of 
antiretroviral medicines. We also discuss options available for the diagnosis, 
treatment and monitoring of HIV-infected patients in this region.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000074299
PMID: 14646379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2003 Dec;(417):139-47. doi: 
10.1097/01.blo.0000096810.78689.62.

Metal degradation products: a cause for concern in metal-metal bearings?

Jacobs JJ(1), Hallab NJ, Skipor AK, Urban RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Rush Medical College, 1653 W. Congress 
Parkway, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. jjacobs@rush.edu

In the majority of patients, orthopaedic implants are biocompatible. However, 
there is an increasing recognition that, in the long-term, permanent orthopaedic 
implants may be associated with adverse local and remote tissue responses in 
some individuals. These adverse effects are mediated by the degradation products 
of implant materials. The recent reintroduction of metal-on-metal bearings for 
total hip arthroplasty has heightened concerns about the biologic response to 
metal degradation products in light of the fact that the serum and urine metal 
concentrations in patients with these implants typically are higher than those 
seen in patients with conventional metal-on-polyethylene bearings. From previous 
studies of long-term metal-on-metal McKee-Farrar implants, it seems that these 
elevated levels may persist for the duration of the implant's lifetime. This is 
of particular concern in the younger and more active patient in whom life 
expectancy after implantation may exceed 30 years. The association of metal 
release from orthopaedic implants with any metabolic, bacteriologic, 
immunologic, or carcinogenic toxicity currently remains conjectural because 
cause and effect have not been established in human subjects. However, continued 
surveillance of patient populations with metal implants, particularly those with 
metal-metal bearings, is warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/01.blo.0000096810.78689.62
PMID: 14646711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2003 Nov;159(11 Suppl):6S95-7.

[Mortality in treated sleep apnea syndrome].

[Article in French]

Chaouat A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital de Hautepierre, CHU Strasbourg. 
ari.chaouat@chru-strasbourg.fr

Obstructive sleep apnea is common and considered to be a risk factor for 
hypertension, stroke and coronary disease. Accordingly, the presence of sleep 
apnea is probably a predictor of premature death. Continuous positive airway 
pressure is an effective treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. It has been 
demonstrated that such treatment improves daytime sleepiness and 
quality-of-life. To determine mortality in obstructive sleep apnea patients 
treated with nasal continuous positive airway pressure, we followed 296 patients 
given continuous positive airway pressure for 11 years 6 months. At the end of 
the study 26 of the 296 patients had died, mainly from cardiovascular disease. 
Mortality was 7% (95% confidence interval: 3%-9%) at 5 years. Three independent 
factors of death identified by forward stepwise selection were included in a Cox 
analysis. These factors were 1) smoking as a categorical covariate (>30 
pack-years), 2) age and 3) forced expiratory volume in 1 s. When the 52 patients 
with an associated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (forced expiratory 
volume in 1 s/vital capacity<0.65) with obstructive sleep apnea were excluded 
form analysis, mortality of the 244 remailing patients was 2% at 5 years, a rate 
observed in the general population. Subsequently, it appears that nasal 
continuous positive airway pressure corrects for the risk of premature death 
suspected in obstructive sleep apnea patients. Mortality in obstructive sleep 
apnea patients treated with continuous positive airway pressure is near to that 
of the general population, particularly when patients with an associated chronic 
respiratory disease are excluded.

PMID: 14646808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2003 Dec;32(12):1135-43. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704288.

Autologous stem cell transplantation in multiple myeloma patients <60 vs >/=60 
years of age.

Reece DE(1), Bredeson C, Pérez WS, Jagannath S, Zhang MJ, Ballen KK, Elfenbein 
GJ, Freytes CO, Gale RP, Gertz MA, Gibson J, Giralt SA, Keating A, Kyle RA, 
Maharaj D, Marcellus D, McCarthy PL, Milone GA, Nimer SD, Pavlovsky S, To LB, 
Weisdorf DJ, Wiernik PH, Wingard JR, Vesole DH.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The role of autologous stem cell transplantation (AuSCT) in older multiple 
myeloma patients is unclear. Using data from the Autologous Blood and Marrow 
Transplant Registry, we compared the outcome of 110 patients >/=the age of 60 
(median 63; range 60-73) years, undergoing AuSCT with that of 382 patients <60 
(median 52; range 30-59) years. The two groups were similar except that older 
patients had a higher beta(2)-microglobulin level at diagnosis (P=0.016) and 
fewer had lytic lesions (P=0.007). Day 100 mortality was 6% (95% confidence 
interval 4-9) and 1-year treatment-related mortality (TRM) was 9% (6-13) in 
patients <60 years, compared with 5% (2-10) and 8% (4-14), respectively, in 
patients >/=60 years. The relapse rate, progression-free survival (PFS) and 
overall survival (OS) in the two groups were also similar. Multivariate analysis 
of all patients identified only an interval from diagnosis to AuSCT >12 months 
and the use of two prior chemotherapy regimens within 6 months of AuSCT as 
adverse prognostic factors. Our results indicate that AuSCT can be safely 
performed in selected older patients: the best results were observed in patients 
undergoing AuSCT relatively early in their disease course.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704288
PMID: 14647267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2003 Dec;32(12):1145-51. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704289.

Outcome after autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation for patients 
with multiple myeloma: impact of graft-versus-myeloma effect.

Alyea E(1), Weller E, Schlossman R, Canning C, Mauch P, Ng A, Fisher D, Gribben 
J, Freeman A, Parikh B, Richardson P, Soiffer R, Ritz J, Anderson KC.

Author information:
(1)Jerome Lipper Multiple Myeloma Center, Department of Medical Oncology, 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, MA 02215, USA. Edwin_alyea@DFCI.Harvard.edu

A total of 228 patients with multiple myeloma (MM), 166 patients receiving 
autologous transplantation (124 PBSC and 38 BM) and 66 patients receiving 
T-cell-depleted allogeneic transplantation were analyzed to compare overall 
survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS) and risk of relapse. Patients 
