receiving autologous transplantation had a significantly improved OS (P=0.006) 
and PFS (P=0.002) at 2 years with OS and PFS for autologous transplant 74% and 
48%, respectively, compared with 51% and 28% for allogeneic transplantation. By 
4 years after transplantation, outcome was similar with OS and PFS for 
autologous transplantation 41% and 23%, respectively, compared with 39% and 18% 
for allogeneic transplantation. The 4-year cumulative incidence of nonrelapse 
mortality was significantly higher in patients receiving allogeneic 
transplantation (24% vs 13%) (P=0.004). Relapse was the principle cause of 
treatment failure for both groups; however, there was a significantly reduced 
risk of relapse associated with allogeneic transplantation at 4 years: 46% for 
allograft vs 56% for autograft (P=0.02). Despite a lower risk of relapse after 
allogeneic transplantation, autologous transplantation is associated with 
improved OS and PFS compared with allogeneic transplantation in patients with 
MM. Strategies focused on reducing nonrelapse mortality in allogeneic 
transplantation may translate into an improved outcome for patients receiving 
allogeneic transplantation.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704289
PMID: 14647268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2001 Nov-Dec;77(6):455-60. doi: 10.2223/jped.343.

[Predictive value of SNAP and SNAP-PE for neonatal mortality].

[Article in Portuguese]

Silveira Rde C(1), Schlabendorff M, Procianoy RS.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology and the Score for 
Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal Extension as neonatal mortality predictors 
in our neonatal intensive care unit, and to compare their results. METHODS: All 
newborn infants admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit from March 1997 
through December 1998 were prospectively evaluated just at completion of 24 
hours of life for SNAP and SNAP-PE. Exclusion criteria were: death or discharge 
from the neonatal intensive care unit in the first 24 hours of life, congenital 
malformations incompatible with life, and outborn infants. RESULTS: 553 newborn 
infants were included in the study and 54 died. The median SNAP and SNAP-PE 
values were higher in those who died. Infants were allocated to five different 
raising ranges of SNAP and SNAP-PE severity. SNAP: up to 6, 7-11, 12-15, 16-24, 
higher than 24 (mortality: 3%, 11%, 29%, 48%,75%, respectively). SNAP-PE: up to 
11, 12-23, 24-32, 33-50, higher than 50 (mortality: 3%, 10%, 53%, 78%, 83%, 
respectively). The optimal cut off points based on ROC curve were 12 for SNAP, 
and 24 for SNAP-PE. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), 
and negative predictive value (NPV) for death were figured out. SNAP 12: 
sensitivity 79.6%, specificity 71.7%, PPV 23.4%, NPV 97%. SNAP-PE 24: 
sensitivity 79.6%, specificity 80%, PPV 30%, NPV 97.3%. The area under the curve 
(Az) were 81.4% for SNAP, and 85.1% for SNAP-PE, both statistically significant. 
There were no statistical differences between the two areas under the curve. 
CONCLUSIONS: SNAP and SNAP-PE are excellent predictors of neonatal survival. 
Therefore, we recommend their use in Neonatal Intensive Care Units.

DOI: 10.2223/jped.343
PMID: 14647824


67. Ment Retard Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2003;9(4):236-42. doi: 10.1002/mrdd.10086.

Early amplification options.

Gabbard SA(1), Schryer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, UC Hospital Audiology Clinic, The University of 
Colorado Health Sciences Center, PO Box 6510, Mail Stop F736, Aurora, CO 80045, 
USA. Sandra.Gabbard@uch.edu

Children with permanent hearing loss have been remediated with hearing 
amplification devices for decades. The influx of young infants identified with 
hearing loss through successful newborn hearing screening programs has 
established a need for amplification resources for infants within the first six 
months of life. For the approximately two of every 1000 infants born who are 
identified with bilateral hearing loss [Mehl and Thomson, 1998, Pediatrics 101, 
p. e4], the use of amplification is commonly the first step in treating the 
sequella of their loss. The use of hearing aids, combined with early 
intervention, has been shown to significantly improve the speech and language 
skills of young children with hearing loss [Yoshinaga-Itano, 2000, Seminars in 
Hearing 21, p. 309]. Speech and language delays have contributed to compromised 
academic performance of school aged children with hearing loss [Johnson et al., 
1997, Educational Audiology Handbook, Singular Publishing, San Diego]. Most 
hard-of-hearing and deaf children use hearing aids and other assistive listening 
devices every day throughout their lifetime and the life expectancy of a hearing 
aid is only five to eight years. The current challenge for pediatric 
audiologists is selecting and evaluating the available amplification to provide 
the best options for children and their families. Amplification technology has 
seen an explosion in growth the past few years and the options continue to 
expand rapidly. This article examines currently available amplification 
technology and reviews the selection criteria that may be used for infants and 
young children. Issues such as style, type, amplification features, signal 
processing strategies, and verification and validation tools are also discussed.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrdd.10086
PMID: 14648816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Contemp Nurse. 2003 Oct;15(3):300-9. doi: 10.5172/conu.15.3.300.

Coronary heart disease in Aboriginal communities: towards a model for 
self-management.

Wade V(1), Jackson D, Daly J.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Family and Community Health, University of Western Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is one of the main causes of death and disability 
in the Aboriginal population, and is the major cause of the twenty-year gap in 
life expectancy of Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. This paper 
explores Aboriginal health in relation to CHD, and suggests self-management as a 
culturally acceptable therapeutic and sustainable ideology from which positive 
outcomes may be achieved.

DOI: 10.5172/conu.15.3.300
PMID: 14649534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2002;16(1):61-79. doi:
10.1080/j354v16n01_05.

Palliative care: an international necessity.

Twycross RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford University, United Kingdom. 
robtwy@yahoo.com

Palliative care is the care of patients whose disease is incurable and whose 
life expectancy is limited to weeks or months. This commentary describes the 
development of modern palliative care, some of the elements and underlying 
philosophical constructs of such care, and calls for expansion and improvement 
in end of life care throughout the world.

DOI: 10.1080/j354v16n01_05
PMID: 14650450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Tex Med. 2003 Nov;99(11):52-6.

The anomalous health status of Texas border counties.

Homan RW.

The health status of Texas border counties is anomalous in that the combination 
of poor health care services, low socioeconomic status, and low education rate 
does not result in the expected increase in age-adjusted mortality rate and 
shortened life expectancy. The anomaly appears to be due largely to the 
combination of a high Hispanic population density in this region, specifically 
Mexican-Americans, and to the phenomenon of Hispanic longevity. The latter is 
considered to be based on a variety of possible cultural factors. In the face of 
continuing escalations in the cost of health care, further definition of what 
those factors are and how they could be incorporated into the delivery of health 
care in our state should be a priority for state health policy.

PMID: 14650721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2003 Dec;28(6):513-21. doi:
10.1046/j.0269-4727.2003.00521.x.

Use of health-related quality of life in prescribing research. Part 1: why 
evaluate health-related quality of life?

Calvert MJ(1), Freemantle N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and General Practice, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK. m.calvert@bham.ac.uk

Clinicians, regulatory authorities, and pharmaceutical companies increasingly 
recognize the importance of assessing the patient's perspective on the impact of 
disease and its treatment on their health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This 
article describes the importance of assessing HRQoL, particularly in patients 
with chronic disease, provides examples of the different types of instrument 
available for measuring HRQoL and considers how such assessment can aid 
medical-decision making. In addition we consider the potential role of HRQoL 
assessment in routine clinical practice, and its use in licensing and health 
technology appraisal.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0269-4727.2003.00521.x
PMID: 14651676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2003 Dec 1;28(23):E490-1. doi: 
10.1097/01.BRS.0000099094.54241.77.

Peculiar fracture of the cervical spine: a rara avis.

Ozçakar L(1), Başgöze O.

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University Medical School, Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Ankara, Turkey. lozcakar@yahoo.com

STUDY DESIGN: Case report.
OBJECTIVES: To report a peculiar case of the cervical spine that ensued after a 
sudden harsh extension along with its prompt evaluation and management.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Fractures of the cervical spine do occur and are 
usually inconsequential because of the rarity of accompanying neurologic 
complications. Accordingly, they are often treated conventionally.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cervical radiographies and magnetic resonance imaging 
were performed to depict the fracture.
RESULTS: Cervical radiographies demonstrated the C7 fracture in our patient but 
the magnetic resonance imaging also disclosed a T1 fracture. He was treated by 
physical therapy and close follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: This type of an unexpected incident in daily life can be seen and 
it should always orient the clinicians toward being vigilant against concomitant 
vertebral fractures or neurologic complications. And once it is proven that the 
spinal cord is not compromised, one might feel comfortable in treating solely 
these inconsequential fractures conventionally.

DOI: 10.1097/01.BRS.0000099094.54241.77
PMID: 14652483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Soc Biol. 2002 Fall-Winter;49(3-4):206-17. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2002.9989059.

Individual aging and mortality rate: how are they related?

Yashin AI(1), Ukraintseva SV, Boiko SI, Arbeev KG.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.

Many researchers working in the area of aging and longevity base their 
conclusions on the behavior of empirical age trajectories of mortality rates. In 
such analyses, changes in the slope of the logarithm of the mortality curve are 
often associated with changes in the rate of individual aging. We show that such 
interpretation may be incorrect: the changes in the slope of this curve do not 
necessarily correspond to the changes in the rate of individual aging. We use 
three models of mortality and aging to illustrate this statement. The first one 
is based on the idea of frailty. We show that changes in frailty distribution 
alone may be responsible for changes in the slope. The second model exploits the 
idea of saving lives. It evaluates changes in mortality rate after elimination 
of lethal stressful events. The third model uses the idea of Strehler and 
Mildvan (1960). It shows that changes in the rate of individual aging may take 
place without changes in the slope of the logarithm of the mortality curve.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2002.9989059
PMID: 14652918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. S Afr Med J. 2003 Oct;93(10):773-4.

Puzzles in the causation and epidemiology of prostate cancer--a sombre outlook.

Walker AR, Walker BF.

PMID: 14652967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2003 Oct;96(10):967-72.

[Evaluation of postoperative mortality and quality of life of patients over 75 
years of age after valve replacement for aortic stenosis. Report of 110 cases].

[Article in French]

Borel ML(1), Amaral A, Bezon E, Mondine P, Barra JA, Boschat J, Blanc JJ, 
Mansourati J.

Author information:
(1)Département de cardiologie, hôpital de La Cavale blanche, CHU Brest, 29609 
Brest.

The authors carried out a retrospective study of short and long-term mortality 
after aortic valve replacement and assessed the quality of life by the IRIS 
scale in patients over 75 years of age operated for severe aortic stenosis at 
the University Hospital of Brest between June 1990 and March 1995. The hospital 
files of 110 consecutive patients (71 women, 39 men; average age 78 +/- 2 years, 
range 75-85 years) were studied. The pre- per- and postoperative data was 
studied. Each survivor was contacted by telephone during the year 2000 and a 
health and IRIS quality of life questionnaire was sent to them. Precise 
information about patients who had died was obtained from the family and/or 
medical practitioner. In the preoperative period, 30.9% of patients had left 
ventricular failure. The average aortic valve surface area was 0.53 +/- 0.12 
cm2. Of the patients who underwent coronary angiography (60%), one third had 
significant coronary lesions. Coronary artery bypass surgery was associated with 
aortic valve replacement in 10% of cases. Biological prostheses were used in 108 
patients. The operative mortality was 8.2%. One year, 5 year and 10 year 
survival rates were 89.9%, 75.5% and 33.3% respectively. Of the survivors, 16.7% 
were in institutional care and 83.3% lived at home. A total of 77.8% were 
readmitted to hospital, about half of them for cardiac problems. Cardiac 
treatment was prescribed for 97% of patients. The quality of life questionnaire 
was completed by 35 patients: the quality of life was better than average in 
nearly 83% of these patients. Aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in 
patients over 75 years of age improves life expectancy which is almost the same 
as that of the normal population of the same age, and improves the quality of 
life by restoring functional autonomy, enabling the majority of them to live in 
their own houses most of the time.

PMID: 14653057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Health Policy Plan. 2003 Dec;18(4):351-6. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czg043.

Measuring health in a vacuum: examining the disability weight of the DALY.

Reidpath DD(1), Allotey PA, Kouame A, Cummins RA.

Author information:
(1)UNICEF India Country Office in Delhi.

The Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) is a widely used summary measure of 
population health combining years of life lost due to mortality and years of 
healthy life lost due to disability. A feature of the DALY is that, in the 
assessment of morbidity, each health condition is associated with a disability 
weight. The disability weight lies on a scale between 0 (indicating the health 
condition is equivalent to full health) and 1 (indicating the health condition 
is equivalent to death). The disability weight associated with each health 
condition is currently fixed across all social, cultural and environmental 
contexts. Thus blindness in the United Kingdom has the same disability weight as 
blindness in Niger in spite of structural interventions in the UK that make the 
disability less severe than in Niger. Although the fixed disability weight is 
defended on grounds that it supports a strongly egalitarian flavour in the DALY, 
we argue that the lack of consideration of realistic contexts results in a 
measure that will underestimate the burden associated with morbidity in 
disadvantaged populations and overestimate the burden in advantaged populations. 
There is, consequently, a loss of information on possible non-clinical points of 
intervention. Disaggregated estimates of the burden of disease such as those in 
the World Health Report 2000 should be interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czg043
PMID: 14654511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Pediatrics. 2003 Dec;112(6 Pt 1):1351-60. doi: 10.1542/peds.112.6.1351.

Cost-effectiveness of inhaled nitric oxide in the treatment of neonatal 
respiratory failure in the United States.

Angus DC(1), Clermont G, Watson RS, Linde-Zwirble WT, Clark RH, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research, Investigation, and Systems Modeling of Acute Illness 
(CRISMA) Laboratory, Department of Critical Care Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA. angusdc@ccm.upmc.edu

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2003 Dec;112(6 Pt 1):1422-3.
    Pediatrics. 2004 Jun;113(6):1849-51; author reply 1849-51.

OBJECTIVE: Two recent randomized controlled trials (RCTs) reported that inhaled 
nitric oxide (iNO) decreased the incidence of extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation (ECMO) or death in term and near-term newborns with hypoxic 
respiratory failure. Our objective was to estimate the cost-effectiveness ratio 
of iNO in this population.
METHODS: We studied 1000 simulation cohorts (n = 483 for each cohort) of 
term/near-term newborns with hypoxemic respiratory failure. We conducted our 
study following US Public Health Service Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health 
and Medicine guidelines, adopting the US societal perspective. We constructed a 
decision tree reflecting iNO use, subsequent ECMO use, death, and long-term 
neurologic and respiratory morbidity in survivors, as determined from the 
combined outcomes of the 2 RCTs (n = 483). We estimated costs on the basis of 
length-of-stay data for the initial episode of care from 1 of the RCTs, unit 
costs from administrative data sets, and current pricing for iNO. We ran a Monte 
Carlo simulation to generate estimates of differences in costs and effects at 1 
year, along with the stochastic uncertainty around these estimates. We expressed 
effects as quality-adjusted survival, assuming quality of life = 1 with no 
comorbidity, 0.7 with 1 comorbidity, and 0.49 (0.7 x 0.7) with 2 comorbidities. 
We constructed a base case, in which iNO was initiated at tertiary care ECMO 
centers (mimicking the RCTs) and a Public Health Service Panel on 
Cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine reference case, in which iNO was 
initiated at the local hospital before transfer (mimicking real-world practice). 
We exposed our assumptions to a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Direct application of the trial results (base case) suggested that iNO 
was both more effective and cheaper (cost savings of 1880 dollars per case 
despite acquisition costs of 5150 dollars, predominantly as a result of 
decreased need for ECMO), with 84.6% probability that the cost-effectiveness 
ratio was better than 100,000 dollars per quality-adjusted life-year. Under the 
reference case, iNO was also more effective (though slightly less so) and was 
even cheaper (cost savings of 4400 dollars per case), with 71.6% probability 
that iNO was cheaper and more effective and 91.6% probability that the cost 
effectiveness ratio was better than 100,000 dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year. Sensitivity analyses showed these estimates to be sensitive to 
patient selection and the price of iNO but insensitive to assumptions regarding 
quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: From a US societal perspective, iNO has a favorable 
cost-effectiveness profile when initiated either at ECMO centers or at local 
hospitals in term/near-term neonates with hypoxemic respiratory failure.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.112.6.1351
PMID: 14654609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Dec;42(6):1154-63. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.040.

Light chain deposition disease with renal involvement: clinical characteristics 
and prognostic factors.

Pozzi C(1), D'Amico M, Fogazzi GB, Curioni S, Ferrario F, Pasquali S, 
Quattrocchio G, Rollino C, Segagni S, Locatelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Dialysis, A. Manzoni Hospital, Lecco, Italy. 
c.pozzi@ospedale.lecco.it

BACKGROUND: Light chain deposition disease (LCDD) is characterized by the tissue 
deposition of monotypical immunoglobulin light chains (LCs). The aim of this 
study was to investigate its clinical characteristics and prognostic factors.
METHODS: Multicenter study of LCDD with renal and patient survival analyses.
RESULTS: Sixty-three cases were studied (age: 58 +/- 14.2; males: 63.5%; 
kappa/lambda deposition: 68/32%; underlying disorders: multiple myeloma [MM] 
65%, lymphoproliferative disorders 3%, idiopathic 32%). Ninety-six percent 
presented with renal insufficiency (acute, 52%; chronic, 44%), and 84% with 
proteinuria >1 g/d. During the follow-up, 36 patients reached uremia (incidence 
rate: 23.7/100 patient-years) and 37 died (17.5/100 patient-years). The factors 
independently associated with a worse renal prognosis were age (relative risk 
[RR], 1.05; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.009 to 1.086) and serum creatinine 
at presentation (RR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.5). Those independently associated 
with a worse patient survival were age (RR, 1.06; 95% CI, 1.03 to 1.1), MM (RR, 
2.75; 95% CI, 1.22 to 6.2), and extrarenal LC deposition (RR, 2.24; 95% CI, 1.15 
to 4.35). While kappa-LC deposition was more frequently associated with nodular 
sclerosing glomerulopathy, histological parameters were not predictors of 
renal/patient prognosis. The survival of the uremic patients undergoing dialysis 
was similar to that of patients not reaching uremia.
CONCLUSION: LCDD is characterized by renal insufficiency with proteinuria and 
has a severe prognosis. Apart from age, the prognostic factors identified were 
degree of renal insufficiency at presentation affecting the renal prognosis, 
underlying hematologic disorder and extrarenal LC deposition affecting the 
patient prognosis. Dialysis is worth performing in uremic LCDD patients.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.040
PMID: 14655186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Dec;42(6):1228-38. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.024.

Cost analysis of renal replacement therapies in Finland.

Salonen T(1), Reina T, Oksa H, Sintonen H, Pasternack A.

Author information:
(1)Medical School, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland. 
tapani.salonen@uta.fi

BACKGROUND: Costs for treating patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have 
grown noticeably. However, most of the cost estimates to date have taken the 
perspective of the payers. Hence, direct costs of treating ESRD are not 
accurately known.
METHODS: Files of all adult patients with ESRD who entered dialysis therapy 
between January 1, 1991, and December 31, 1996, were studied retrospectively, 
and all use of health care resources and services was recorded. Follow-up 
continued until December 31, 1996.
RESULTS: Two hundred fourteen patients fulfilled the study criteria, 138 
patients started with in-center hemodialysis (HD) therapy, and 76 patients 
started with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) therapy. Patients 
were followed up until death (72 patients) or treatment modality changed for 
more than 1 month. Fifty-five patients received a cadaveric transplant, and 
after transplantation (TX), they were examined as a separate group of TX 
patients. Direct health care costs for the first 6 months in the HD, CAPD, and 
TX groups were 32,566 US dollars, 25,504 dollars, and 38,265 dollars, and for 
the next 6 months, 26,272 dollars, 24,218 dollars, and 7,420 dollars, 
respectively. During subsequent years, annual costs were 54,140 US dollars and 
54,490 dollars in the HD group, 45,262 dollars and 49,299 dollars in the CAPD 
group, and 11,446 dollars and 9,989 dollars in the TX group. Regression analyses 
showed 4 variables significantly associated with greater daily costs in dialysis 
patients: age, ischemic heart disease, nonprimary renal disease, and HD 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: Compared with HD, CAPD may be associated with lower costs, yet the 
absolute difference is not striking. After the TX procedure is performed once, 
annual costs decline remarkably, and cadaveric TX is less costly than both 
dialysis modalities.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.024
PMID: 14655195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Am J Kidney Dis. 2003 Dec;42(6):1275-82. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.030.

The impact of residual renal function on graft and patient survival rates in 
recipients of preemptive renal transplants.

Ishani A(1), Ibrahim HN, Gilbertson D, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Minneapolis Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN 55417, USA. isha0012@umn.edu

BACKGROUND: Transplantation before the initiation of dialysis is associated with 
prolonged allograft survival. It is unclear if this benefit is attributable to 
greater residual renal function or to avoidance of dialysis exposure. The 
authors performed an analysis to determine whether higher renal function at 
transplant was associated with increased patient and graft survival rates.
METHODS: The authors identified individuals who between 1994 and June 2000 were 
>or= 18 years and had undergone a living donor renal transplant (Tx) as initial 
form of renal replacement therapy. Pre-Tx and 6-month estimated glomerular 
filtration rates (eGFR) were calculated using the 4-variable Modification of 
Diet in Renal Disease formula. Survival was compared in those with a pre-Tx eGFR 
>or=15mL/min to those with an eGFR less than 15 mL/min, after adjusting for 
demographic variables, co-morbidities, and transplant characteristics. Survival 
rate then was adjusted for calculated propensity scores.
RESULTS: A total of 4,046 patients were included. Mean pre-Tx eGFR was 9.9 
mL/min (0.9 to 57.1 mL/min). There was no difference in graft survival rates by 
strata of eGFR in any of the tested models, even after correcting for propensity 
score (hazard ratio, 0.95; 95% confidence interval, 0.69 to 1.30). There was no 
correlation between pre-Tx eGFR and 6-month post-Tx eGFR (r(2) =-0.005).
CONCLUSION: Recipients of preemptive transplants fare equally, regardless of the 
eGFR at which they receive their transplant. There was no relationship between 
pre-Tx eGFR and 6-month eGFR, suggesting that post-Tx renal function is 
independent of the level of pre-Tx renal function. These data suggest that 
preemptive kidney transplantation should be delayed as long as possible, 
provided the patient does not have uremic symptoms, and dialysis can be safely 
avoided.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2003.08.030
PMID: 14655201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2003 Aug;14(8):1395-7.

[Construction and important factors analysis of natural life table of 
diamonthback moth, Plutella xylostella under pesticides treatment].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu X(1), You M.

Author information:
(1)College of Plant Protection, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou 350002, China. liuxin777@vip.sina.com

The natural life tables of diamonthback moth (DBM), Plutella xylostella under 
pesticides treatment were constructed, and the construction method of item 
"pesticide" was particularly discussed. The life tables indicated that the 
indices of population trend (I) under the treatment with 80% Dichlorvos EC 1000x 
and the contrast were 0.7796 and 1.4804, respectively, showing that Dichlorvos 
had some control on DBM. But, Dichlorvos had some effects on natural enemies of 
DBM. The decrease of parasitism rate at pupa stage was most obvious, which 
indicated that Dichlorvos had some effects of killing and wounding on the 
natural enemies of DBM.

PMID: 14655383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. MMW Fortschr Med. 2003 Oct 30;145(44):4-5.

[Sweating against cardiac death. What training is needed to prolong life?].

[Article in German]

Einecke D.

PMID: 14655494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Hum Biol. 2003 Aug;75(4):521-37. doi: 10.1353/hub.2003.0054.

The evolution of human phenotypic plasticity: age and nutritional status at 
maturity.

Gage TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University at Albany, SUNY, Albany, NY 12222, 
USA.

Several evolutionary optimal models of human plasticity in age and nutritional 
status at reproductive maturation are proposed and their dynamics examined. 
These models differ from previously published models because fertility is not 
assumed to be a function of body size or nutritional status. Further, the models 
are based on explicitly human demographic patterns, that is, model human 
life-tables, model human fertility tables, and, a nutrient flow-based model of 
maternal nutritional status. Infant survival (instead of fertility as in 
previous models) is assumed to be a function of maternal nutritional status. Two 
basic models are examined. In the first the cost of reproduction is assumed to 
be a constant proportion of total nutrient flow. In the second the cost of 
reproduction is constant for each birth. The constant proportion model predicts 
a negative slope of age and nutritional status at maturation. The constant cost 
per birth model predicts a positive slope of age and nutritional status at 
maturation. Either model can account for the secular decline in menarche 
observed over the last several centuries in Europe. A search of the growth 
literature failed to find definitive empirical documentation of human phenotypic 
plasticity in age and nutritional status at maturation. Most research strategies 
confound genetics with phenotypic plasticity. The one study that reports secular 
trends suggests a marginally insignificant, but positive slope. This view tends 
to support the constant cost per birth model.

DOI: 10.1353/hub.2003.0054
PMID: 14655875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2003 Nov-Dec;13 Suppl 2:212-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1525-1438.2003.13355.x.

Cost-effectiveness studies in ovarian cancer.

Szucs TD(1), Wyss P, Dedes KJ.

Author information:
(1)Hirslanden Research, Division of Gynecology, University Hospital, Zurich, 
Switzerland. thomas.szucs@unibas.ch

Ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer-related deaths. The costs 
associated with this cancer impact both on the affected individual and on the 
health system. Screening is currently unproven as a strategy for improving 
outcomes for women with ovarian cancer. Randomized controlled trials, however, 
are underway, estimating any impact of screening with ultrasound and CA125 on 
ovarian cancer mortality. Paclitaxel and carboplatin combination, the standard 
first-line chemotherapy regimen for ovarian cancer, has not been compared with 
cisplatin and cyclophosphamide regarding the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility, but for paclitaxel and cisplatin, numerous studies have addressed 
these issues. The estimated incremental costs resulting from these studies fall 
well within the generally accepted range for new therapies. Although acquisition 
costs of new chemotherapy drugs exceed those of older drugs, the impact of 
costly drugs on total costs may be cost saving due to less costs related to 
supportive and palliative care. The most important costs for the patient, the 
pain and suffering associated with ovarian cancer and its treatment, are hard to 
quantify. Nevertheless, patients' quality of life must be considered when making 
a clinical decision to treat this disease. A review of available 
cost-effectiveness studies is presented and discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1438.2003.13355.x
PMID: 14656283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Am J Med. 2003 Dec 1;115(8):632-41. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.07.007.

Projecting the cost-effectiveness of adherence interventions in persons with 
human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Goldie SJ(1), Paltiel AD, Weinstein MC, Losina E, Seage GR 3rd, Kimmel AD, 
Walensky RP, Sax PE, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115-5924, USA. sgoldie@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2003 Dec 1;115(8):672-3.

PURPOSE: To explore the cost-effectiveness of interventions to improve adherence 
to combination antiretroviral therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection.
METHODS: A simulation model of HIV infection, incorporating CD4 cell count and 
HIV ribonucleic acid levels as predictors of disease progression, was used to 
estimate the lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy associated with 
clinical interventions to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy (e.g., 
directly observed therapy, automatic medication dispensers, beepers, portable 
alarms) in a clinical trial cohort with early disease (mean CD4 count, 350 
cells/microL), a clinical trial cohort with advanced disease (mean CD4 count, 87 
cells/microL), and an urban cohort (mean CD4 count, 217 cells/microL). Data were 
from clinical trials, national databases, and published literature.
RESULTS: For relatively healthy patients with early disease, interventions that 
reduced virologic failure rates by 10% increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy by 3.2 months, whereas those that reduced failure by 80% increased 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 34.8 months, as compared with standard care. 
The cost-effectiveness ratio was below 50000 US dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) for interventions costing 100 US dollars per month provided 
that failure rates were reduced by at least 10%, and for those costing 500 US 
dollars per month provided that failure rates were reduced by more than 50%. For 
both patients with advanced disease and those from an urban cohort, adherence 
interventions costing about 500 US dollars per month (e.g., directly observed 
therapy) had to reduce failure by about 25% to have cost-effectiveness ratios 
below 50000 US dollars per QALY.
CONCLUSION: In patients with lower baseline levels of adherence or advanced 
disease, even very expensive, moderately effective adherence interventions are 
likely to confer cost-effectiveness benefits that compare favorably with other 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.07.007
PMID: 14656616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Am J Med. 2003 Dec 1;115(8):672-3. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.023.

The economic viability of antiretroviral adherence interventions.

Bozzette SA, Gifford AL.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2003 Dec 1;115(8):632-41.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2003.09.023
PMID: 14656623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. BMJ. 2003 Dec 6;327(7427):1316. doi: 10.1136/bmj.327.7427.1316.

Cost effectiveness and cost utility model of public place defibrillators in 
improving survival after prehospital cardiopulmonary arrest.

Walker A(1), Sirel JM, Marsden AK, Cobbe SM, Pell JP.

Author information:
(1)Robertson Centre for Biostatistics, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness and cost utility of locating 
defibrillators in all major airports, railway stations, and bus stations 
throughout Scotland.
DESIGN: Economic modelling exercise with data from Heartstart (Scotland). 
Parameters used in economic model included direct costs derived for increased 
accident and emergency attendances, increased hospital bed days, purchase and 
maintenance of defibrillators, and training in their use; life years gained 
calculated from increased discharges from hospital and mean survival after 
discharge; utility (quality of life) obtained from published data. Sensitivity 
analyses tested the robustness of model. Future gains discounted at 1.5% a year 
and future costs at 6%.
SETTING: Whole of Scotland.
SUBJECTS: Records of all prehospital cardiac arrests due to presumed heart 
disease that occurred in a major airport, railway, or bus station between May 
1991 and March 1998 and were not witnessed by ambulance or medical staff.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Observed survival to hospital admission and observed 
survival to discharge. Predicted survival calculated by applying observed 
survival in patients attended by ambulance staff within three minutes to those 
who waited longer.
RESULTS: The total discounted direct costs were 18 325 pounds sterling a year. 
The cost per life year gained was 29 625 pounds sterling (49 625 dollars, 43 151 
Euros) and the cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained was pound 41 
146 (68 924 dollars, 59 932 Euros). More widespread provision of public place 
defibrillators would increase these figures.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost per QALY calculated for public place defibrillators 
represents poorer value for money than some alternative strategies for improving 
survival after prehospital cardiopulmonary arrest, such as the use of other 
trained first responders. The figure exceeds the commonly discussed cut off 
levels for funding in the United Kingdom and United States of pound 30 000 and 
50 000 dollars per QALY, respectively.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.327.7427.1316
PMCID: PMC286317
PMID: 14656838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Circulation. 2003 Dec 9;108(23):2870-6. doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.0000100723.50363.2C.  Epub 2003 Dec 1.

Randomized comparison between stenting and off-pump bypass surgery in patients 
referred for angioplasty.

Eefting F(1), Nathoe H, van Dijk D, Jansen E, Lahpor J, Stella P, Suyker W, 
Diephuis J, Suryapranata H, Ernst S, Borst C, Buskens E, Grobbee D, de Jaegere 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Heart Lung Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2004 Jun 8;109(22):e312-3; author reply e312-3.

BACKGROUND: Stenting improves cardiac outcome in comparison with balloon 
angioplasty. Compared with conventional surgery, off-pump bypass surgery on the 
beating heart without cardiopulmonary bypass may reduce morbidity, hospital 
stay, and costs. The purpose, therefore, was to compare cardiac outcome, quality 
of life, and cost-effectiveness 1 year after stenting and after off-pump 
surgery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients referred for angioplasty (n=280) were randomly 
assigned to stenting (n=138) or off-pump bypass surgery. At 1 year, survival 
free from stroke, myocardial infarction, and repeat revascularization was 85.5% 
after stenting and 91.5% after off-pump surgery (relative risk, 0.93; 95% CI, 
0.86 to 1.02). Freedom from angina was 78.3% after stenting and 87.0% after 
off-pump surgery (P=0.06). Quality-adjusted lifetime was 0.82 year after 
stenting and 0.79 year after off-pump surgery (P=0.09). Hospital stay after the 
initial procedure was 1.43 and 5.77 days, respectively (P<0.01). Stenting 
reduced overall costs by 2933 dollars (26.2%) per patient (8276 dollars versus 
11 209 dollars; P<0.01). Stenting was more cost-effective in 95% of the 
bootstrap estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: At 1 year, stenting was more cost-effective than off-pump surgery 
while maintaining comparable cardiac outcome and quality of life. Stenting 
rather than off-pump surgery, therefore, can be recommended as a first-choice 
revascularization strategy in selected patients.

DOI: 10.1161/01.CIR.0000100723.50363.2C
PMID: 14656913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. P N G Med J. 2002 Mar-Jun;45(1-2):51-62.

Demography and causes of death among the Huli in the Tari Basin.

Lehmann D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Child Health Research, University of Western Australia, Telethon 
Institute for Child Health Research, Perth, WA, Australia.

Monthly demographic surveillance by local reporters was continuous in the Tari 
Basin from 1971 until 1995 and cause of death was determined primarily by verbal 
autopsy. In 1982 the de jure population was 26,500, 15% aged less than 5 years. 
Crude birth rate was 34/1000/annum in 1980-1984; from 1977 to 1983 crude 
mortality rate was 15/1000/annum and life expectancy at birth 50 years. Infant 
mortality fell from 160 in the 1920s to 72/1000 livebirths in the 1970s, the 
greatest decline occurring between 1952 and 1971 when antibiotics became widely 
available. Respiratory disease (particularly chronic lung disease in adults) 
accounted for 39% of all deaths, and pneumonia for 50% and 33% of infant and 
toddler deaths respectively. Very few deaths from pigbel have occurred since the 
introduction of pigbel vaccine. Initially childhood mortality from diarrhoea 
declined following introduction of an oral rehydration program but subsequently 
rose when medical attention was no longer sought and children were inadequately 
treated at home. The higher mortality in the lower-lying Iumu area was 
attributed to malaria. Since the opening of the Highlands Highway in 1981, there 
has been a dramatic increase in short-term movement of both men and women in and 
out of Tari resulting in increased incidence of sexually transmitted diseases 
and viral infections such as measles. If restored, the Tari Research Unit could 
continue to play a key role in assisting the Department of Health in making 
decisions on appropriate interventions to improve the quality of life of Papua 
New Guineans.

PMID: 14658828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Breast. 2003 Dec;12(6):550-7. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9776(03)00165-6.

Adjuvant therapy for older women with breast cancer.

Muss HB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Vermont College of Medicine, Vermont Cancer Center, Burlington, 
VT 05401, USA. hmuss@zoo.uvm.edu

The major risk factor for breast cancer is increasing age and more than half of 
all breast cancers in affluent nations occur in women 65 years and older. 
Co-morbidity is a key consideration in offering systemic adjuvant treatment to 
older women since significant co-morbidity minimizes the potential value of any 
adjuvant therapy. Tamoxifen has clearly been shown to significantly decrease the 
risk of recurrence and improve survival in women of all ages who have estrogen 
(ER) or progesterone receptor (PR) positive invasive breast cancer, including 
those 70 years and older. Chemotherapy in older patients can improve survival 
but adds little to tamoxifen in women with node-negative, ER+ or PR+ tumors: it 
should be reserved for older women who have reasonable life-expectancy and 
larger node-negative tumors, or node-positive tumors. Ageism is still a barrier 
to clinical trials participation and clinical trials focusing on older women are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9776(03)00165-6
PMID: 14659134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Int J Environ Health Res. 2004 Feb;14(1):13-30. doi: 
10.1080/09603120310001633895.

Linkages between biodiversity loss and human health: a global indicator 
analysis.

Huynen MM(1), Martens P, De Groot RS.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Integrative Studies (ICIS), Maastricht University, 
The Netherlands. m.huynen@icis.unimaas.nl

The association between health and biodiversity loss was explored by means of 
regression analysis on a global scale, with control for confounding by 
socio-economic developments. For this we selected indicators of human health 
(life expectancy, disability adjusted life expectancy, infant mortality rate and 
percentage low-birthweight babies), biodiversity (percentage threatened species, 
current forest as a percentage of original forest, percentage of land highly 
disturbed by man) and socio-economic development (health expenditure as 
percentage of GNP, percentage one-year olds immunized, illiteracy rate, GNP per 
capita and development grade) on a country level. After controlling for relevant 
socio-economic confounders, both current forest as a percentage of original 
forest and the percentage of land highly disturbed by human activities had no 
relationship with one of the health indicators. The logarithm of the percentage 
threatened species, showed a positive association with life expectancy and 
disability adjusted life expectancy. The present study was not able to provide 
any empirical proof of a negative association between loss of biodiversity and 
human health at the global scale. This does not mean, however, that no such 
relationship exists, because there may be several reasons for our findings, like 
possible non-linearity of the relationship, lack of suitable indicators, 
non-randomness in the sample of countries and the limitations of regression 
analysis in proving causality.

DOI: 10.1080/09603120310001633895
PMID: 14660115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2003 Sep-Oct;(5):22-4.

[Life expectancy of the residents of St. Petersburg].

[Article in Russian]

Petrova NG, Sivashinskiĭ SV.

The dynamics of the mean life expectancy (LE) were analyzed for the residents of 
Saint-Petersburg in 1979-2001. The trends of the above index were compared for 
Saint-Petersburg, Russia and a number of countries in the Eastern, Central and 
Western Europe. The influence of different age- and sex-groups on the 
mortality-intensity changes observed at crucial stage of the mentioned period 
were analyzed and evaluated. An LE increase at removing certain mortality causes 
from some age intervals were assessed. The specificity of mortality processes in 
Russia and Saint Petersburg was found to be essentially different from that 
observed in other countries. The conclusion was substantiated on that the 
social-and-economic situation in the country and in the city has a significant 
impact on the mortality level among population and, primarily, among the 
able-bodied population.

PMID: 14661412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2003 Sep-Oct;(5):54-7.

[Reforming of the health care system in Uzbekistan].

[Article in Russian]

Asadov DA, Durmanov BD, Ismailov SI, Dzhamalutdinova ISh.

PMID: 14661423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2004 Jan;286(1):E31-40. doi: 
10.1152/ajpendo.00283.2003.

Proton leak and hydrogen peroxide production in liver mitochondria from 
energy-restricted rats.

Ramsey JJ(1), Hagopian K, Kenny TM, Koomson EK, Bevilacqua L, Weindruch R, 
Harper ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. jjramsey@ucdavis.edu

Energy restriction (ER), without malnutrition, is the only environmental 
intervention that consistently increases maximum life span in laboratory 
rodents. One theory proposes that a reduction in energy expenditure and reactive 
oxygen species production is the mechanism responsible for this action of ER. To 
further test this theory, proton leak, H2O2 production, lipid peroxidation, and 
protein carbonyls were measured in mitochondria from FBNF1 rats fed either a 
control or 40% ER diet (onset at 6 mo of age). Liver mitochondria were isolated 
at 7 and 12 mo of age. Liver weight decreased 25 and 36% at 1 and 6 mo of ER, 
respectively (P < 0.05). ER resulted in an increase (P < 0.05) in percent total 
polyunsaturates, n-6 polyunsaturates, and total unsaturates (6 mo only) in 
mitochondrial lipids. These changes, however, were not associated with 
significant alterations in mitochondrial function. State 4 respiration and 
membrane potential were not different (P > 0.05) between groups at either 
assessment period. Similarly, proton leak kinetics were not different between 
control and ER animals. Top-down metabolic control analysis and its extension, 
elasticity analysis, were used at the 6-mo assessment and revealed no difference 
in control of the oxidative phosphorylation system between control and ER rats. 
H2O2 production with either succinate or pyruvate/malate substrates was also not 
different (P > 0.05) between groups at either time point. In conclusion, ER did 
not alter proton leak or H2O2 production at this age or stage of restriction in 
liver.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00283.2003
PMID: 14662512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Arch Intern Med. 2003 Dec 8-22;163(22):2728-31. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.163.22.2728.

Extent of cardiovascular risk reduction associated with treatment of isolated 
systolic hypertension.

Sutton-Tyrrell K(1), Wildman R, Newman A, Kuller LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa 15261, USA. Tyrrell@edc.pitt.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2003 Dec 8-22;163(22):2677-8.

BACKGROUND: The Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) demonstrated 
the benefit of treating isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) in older adults. 
However, nearly 20% of older adults remain at high risk of heart disease and 
stroke from untreated ISH.
METHODS: For the Pittsburgh SHEP cohort, 11- to 14-year death or cardiovascular 
event rates were compared for active (n = 135) and placebo (n = 133) arms plus 
normotensive controls (n = 187). Carotid ultrasound and ankle blood pressures 
were used to identify subclinical atherosclerosis at baseline.
RESULTS: Fourteen-year Kaplan-Meier event rate estimates were 58% vs 79% for the 
active vs placebo groups (P =.001). Eleven-year event rates for the control, 
active, and placebo groups were 35%, 47%, and 65%, respectively. Compared with 
controls, the relative risk of an event was 1.6 (95% confidence interval, 
1.1-2.4) for the active treatment group and 3.0 (95% confidence interval, 
2.1-4.4) for the placebo group. Baseline history of cardiovascular disease was 
present in 19% of SHEP participants vs 15% of controls (P =.32), and subclinical 
disease (carotid stenosis or low ankle blood pressure) was detected in 33% of 
SHEP participants vs 10% of controls (P<.001). Among those with no clinical or 
subclinical disease at baseline, the ISH group assigned to active treatment had 
10-year event rates similar to those of the control group (29% vs 27%), whereas 
the placebo rates were much higher (69%).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of ISH in older adults results in reduced event rates in 
14 years. Treatment before advanced atherosclerosis develops will likely produce 
the best long-term outcome.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.163.22.2728
PMID: 14662626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2003;95:281-5.

How to identify and assess tasks and challenges of Medical Image Processing.

Horsch A(1), Thurmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medical Statistics, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany. 
alexander.horsch@imse.med.tu-muenchen.de

