Research in Medical Image Processing (MIP) is mainly driven by a 
technology-oriented point of view. However, as an application-oriented field, 
MIP research should always be able to give an answer to the question of what is 
the potential benefit of a solved MIP problem or a newly developed MIP-based 
system supporting a diagnostic or therapeutic process, in terms of outcome 
criteria like e.g. Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) for the patient or cost 
savings in health care. As one subtask of establishing a Reference Image 
Database for MIP R&D Groups, the Working Group on Medical Image Processing of 
the European Federation for Medical Informatics (EFMI WG MIP) works on an 
answer. This paper presents the concept and the strategy of how the Most 
Relevant MIP problems (MRMIP) shall be identified and assessed in the context of 
improving evaluation of MIP solutions.

PMID: 14664000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Drugs. 2003;63(24):2755-66; discussion 2767-8. doi: 
10.2165/00003495-200363240-00005.

Enfuvirtide.

Dando TM(1), Perry CM.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Enfuvirtide is the first of a new class of drugs, the fusion inhibitors. It is a 
synthetic peptide which binds to the HIV glycoprotein 41 (gp41), blocking fusion 
of the viral and cellular membranes. HIV isolates with reduced susceptibility to 
enfuvirtide have been recovered from patients receiving enfuvirtide in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents. Enfuvirtide 90mg (subcutaneously, 
twice daily) in combination with optimised background (OB) antiretroviral 
therapy significantly reduced plasma HIV RNA levels compared with OB alone after 
treatment for 24 weeks in two randomised trials involving adults with advanced 
HIV infection. The antiviral efficacy of enfuvirtide was maintained through to 
48 weeks. At 24 and 48 weeks, the increase from baseline in the CD4+ cell count 
was significantly greater for patients receiving enfuvirtide plus OB than for 
those receiving OB alone. Enfuvirtide 30 mg/m(2) or 60 mg/m(2) in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents reduced plasma HIV RNA levels and increased 
CD4+ cell counts in a small trial involving paediatric patients with HIV 
infection. Local injection-site reactions were common. Lymphadenopathy and 
pneumonia occurred more often in patients receiving enfuvirtide plus OB than in 
the control group. The incidence of most other events was similar in each group.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200363240-00005
PMID: 14664654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Urology. 2003 Dec;62(6):1024-8. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00763-5.

Impact of tumor-associated symptoms on the prognosis of patients with renal cell 
carcinoma: a single-center experience of 683 patients.

Schips L(1), Lipsky K, Zigeuner R, Salfellner M, Winkler S, Langner C, Rehak P, 
Pummer K, Hubmer G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karl Franzens University Graz, Graz, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact of cancer-associated symptoms present at the 
diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) on the prognosis of patients. Increasing 
numbers of RCC are currently detected incidentally by routine ultrasonography.
METHODS: From January 1994 to December 2000, 693 operations for RCC in 683 
consecutive patients have been performed at our institution. Overall, 
tumor-specific, and progression-free survival were investigated using the 
Kaplan-Meier method. For multivariate analysis regarding tumor-specific 
survival, the Cox regression model, including risk ratios, was used. A receiver 
operating characteristics curve regarding the sensitivity and specificity for 
the association between tumor size and symptoms was used.
RESULTS: Of the 683 patients, 417 patients were male and 266 female. The mean 
patient age was 62 years (range 16 to 88). Of the 683 patients, 141 (20.8%) 
presented with symptoms suspicious for cancer. The 5-year overall, 
progression-free, and cancer-specific survival rates were 82%, 79%, and 86%, 
respectively, for asymptomatic patients compared with 60%, 55%, and 65%, 
respectively, for patients with symptoms at diagnosis (P <0.0001, log-rank 
test). The cutoff value of 5 cm for the tumor diameter to result in symptoms was 
chosen on the receiver operating characteristic curve. Multivariate analysis 
found tumor grade (P = 0.001), tumor stage (P = 0.001), presence of symptoms (P 
= 0.013), and tumor diameter (P = 0.005) to be independent prognostic parameters 
for cancer-specific survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Tumors larger than 5 cm were significantly more likely to cause 
symptoms compared with smaller tumors in our series. In multivariate analysis, 
patients presenting with symptoms suspicious for cancer at the diagnosis of RCC 
had a 1.8-fold greater risk of dying of cancer compared with patients without 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00763-5
PMID: 14665348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Urology. 2003 Dec;62(6):1063-7. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00772-6.

Comparing PSA outcome after radical prostatectomy or magnetic resonance 
imaging-guided partial prostatic irradiation in select patients with clinically 
localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

D'amico AV(1), Tempany CM, Schultz D, Cormack RA, Hurwitz M, Beard C, Albert M, 
Kooy H, Jolesz F, Richie JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Dana 
Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether high-dose radiation delivered to a subvolume of 
the prostate gland (peripheral zone) using intraoperative magnetic resonance 
imaging-guided brachytherapy provided comparable 5-year prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) control rates to radical prostatectomy (RP) in select patients 
compared prospectively but in a nonrandomized setting.
METHODS: Between 1997 and 2002, 322 and 196 patients with clinical Stage T1c, 
PSA less than 10 ng/mL, biopsy Gleason score 3 + 4 or less, and without 
perineural invasion underwent RP or intraoperative magnetic resonance 
imaging-guided brachytherapy, respectively, and had a 2-year minimal follow-up. 
Cox regression multivariable analysis was used to evaluate whether the initial 
therapy, pretreatment PSA level, biopsy Gleason score, percentage of positive 
biopsies, or prostate gland volume were predictors of the time to post-therapy 
PSA failure. PSA failure was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and defined 
using the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology Oncology consensus 
definition.
RESULTS: Only the percentage of positive prostate biopsies (P(Cox) = 0.02) was a 
significant predictor of the time to post-treatment PSA failure. However, the 
distribution of this parameter between RP and brachytherapy-treated patients was 
not significantly different (P(chi-square) = 0.25). The initial therapy did not 
predict for the time to post-therapy PSA failure (P(Cox) = 0.18). The 5-year 
estimate of PSA control was 93% versus 95% (P(log-rank) = 0.16) for the RP and 
brachytherapy patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite only partial prostatic irradiation using intraoperative 
magnetic resonance imaging-guided brachytherapy, similar 5-year estimates of PSA 
control were found for both brachytherapy and RP-managed patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00772-6
PMID: 14665356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Urology. 2003 Dec;62(6):1073-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.07.004.

Importance of implant dosimetry for patients undergoing prostate brachytherapy.

Potters L(1), Huang D, Calugaru E, Fearn P, Lee L, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center at 
Mercy Medical Center, Rockville Centre, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the disease and treatment-related factors for predicting 
biochemical freedom from recurrence (BFR) in patients with clinically localized 
prostate cancer undergoing permanent prostate brachytherapy.
METHODS: Between November 1992 and June 1998, 883 consecutive patients with 
T1-T2 prostate cancer underwent permanent prostate brachytherapy. Computed 
tomography-based dosimetry was performed, and the minimal dose to 90% of the 
prostate volume relative to the prescribed dose (D(90)) was calculated. BFR was 
defined as three prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rises from nadir, with patients 
having one or two PSA rises censored early. Follow-up was calculated by censored 
events. Kaplan-Meier actuarial outcome was determined, and multivariate Cox 
regression analysis was performed to assess the significance of the D(90), 
initial PSA value, Gleason score, addition of external beam radiotherapy, 
addition of hormonal therapy, and isotope selection.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 55 months (range 3 to 125). The 10-year BFR rate 
was 79.1%. Cox proportional analysis identified D(90) as a predictor of BFR (P 
<0.0001), along with Gleason score, initial PSA level, and clinical stage (P = 
0.001, P = 0.001, and P = 0.011, respectively). The addition of external beam 
radiotherapy, hormonal therapy, and isotope selection did not have an impact on 
BFR (P = 0.128, P = 0.399, and P = 0.224, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The quality of permanent prostate brachytherapy as measured by the 
D(90) was the most significant predictor for BFR in this study cohort at 10 
years. Furthermore, adding external beam radiotherapy and/or hormonal therapy as 
adjuvant therapies did not independently predict for BFR. Overall, the reported 
10-year BFR rates in this study were favorable. Strategies for ensuring the best 
quality implant should be used and, when reporting brachytherapy outcomes, the 
implant quality should be noted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2003.07.004
PMID: 14665358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Urology. 2003 Dec;62(6):1078-82. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00768-4.

Tissue factor expression and prognosis in patients with metastatic prostate 
cancer.

Akashi T(1), Furuya Y, Ohta S, Fuse H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical University Faculty 
of Medicine, Sugitani, Toyama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To assess immunohistochemically the pattern of tissue factor (TF) 
expression in patients with metastatic prostate cancer, because TF is aberrantly 
expressed in human cancer. TF is the primary initiator of the coagulation 
cascade.
METHODS: Seventy-three patients with untreated metastatic prostate cancer who 
received hormonal therapy were included in the present study. Biopsy specimens 
were stained with anti-human TF antibody. We evaluated the histologic grade, 
extent of bony metastasis, clinical response to hormonal therapy, and patient 
prognosis.
RESULTS: TF was detected in 75.3% of the tumors of the patients with metastatic 
prostate cancer. TF expression showed no association with histologic grade, 
extent of bony metastasis, or clinical response to hormonal therapy. Patients 
with TF-positive tumors had a poorer cause-specific survival than those with 
TF-negative tumors. Multivariate analysis showed that TF expression, clinical 
response to hormonal therapy, and extent of bony metastasis were significant 
prognostic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The TF content measured using immunohistochemical staining was a 
useful prognostic factor for patients with metastatic prostate cancer treated 
with androgen withdrawal therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(03)00768-4
PMID: 14665359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Chest. 2003 Dec;124(6):2087-92. doi: 10.1378/chest.124.6.2087.

Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension: a preliminary decision analysis.

Highland KB(1), Strange C, Mazur J, Simpson KN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, Allergy, and Clinical Immunology, 
Medical University of South Carolina, 96 Jonathan Lucas Street, Suite 812 CSB, 
Charleston, SC 29425, USA. highlakb@musc.edu

Comment in
    Chest. 2003 Dec;124(6):2045-9.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: New therapies for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) improve 
functional status, quality of life (QOL), and survival. Clinicians must chose 
between very different therapies without the availability of comparison studies. 
We constructed a "virtual" clinical trial to help inform these treatment 
choices.
DESIGN: We compare key outcomes related to survival, costs, and QOL using a 
Markov-type decision model to estimate the expected outcomes and costs for PAH 
patients treated for 1 year with bosentan and treprostinil compared to patients 
treated with epoprostenol, as well as patients treated with bosentan compared to 
those treated with treprostinil. The allowed transitions in the model were 
between World Health Organization functional class I to IV and death. Transition 
probabilities were based on observed transitions for bosentan. Treatment effect 
was estimated using 6-min walk data for treprostinil and epoprostenol. Utilities 
were calculated from estimated EuroQol health states. Cost was estimated from 
average wholesale price and Medicare reimbursement data. The effects of changing 
values of input variables on the key outcomes were calculated.
RESULTS: Treatment with bosentan compared to treatment with either epoprostenol 
or treprostinil was less costly and resulted in a greater gain in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Conversely, treprostinil was significantly 
more expensive than epoprostenol, without an appreciable gain in QALYs. These 
findings were not substantially affected by the reasonable adjustments of 
transition probabilities, utility values, or tachyphylaxis to epoprostenol.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with bosentan is more cost-effective than treatment with 
either treprostinil or epoprostenol. In addition, a net improvement in 
quality-adjusted survival may be expected.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.124.6.2087
PMID: 14665484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Jan 15;22(2):244-53. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.198. Epub
2003  Dec 9.

Cost-utility analysis of preoperative radiotherapy in patients with rectal 
cancer undergoing total mesorectal excision: a study of the Dutch Colorectal 
Cancer Group.

Van Den Brink M(1), Van Den Hout WB, Stiggelbout AM, Klein Kranenbarg E, 
Marijnen CA, Van De Velde CJ, Kievit J; Dutch Colorectal Cancer Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, J10-S, Leiden University Medical 
Center, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC Leiden, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2004 Jan 15;22(2):217-9.
    J Clin Oncol. 2005 May 20;23(15):3632-3; author reply 3633-4.

PURPOSE: To compare the societal costs and the (quality-adjusted) life 
expectancy of patients with rectal cancer undergoing total mesorectal excision 
(TME) with or without short-term preoperative radiotherapy (5 x 5 Gy).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We used a Markov model to project the clinical and 
economic outcomes of preoperative radiotherapy. Data on local recurrence rates, 
quality of life, and costs were obtained from the patients of a multicenter 
randomized clinical trial. In this trial, 1,861 patients with resectable rectal 
cancer from 108 hospitals were randomly assigned for TME surgery with or without 
preoperative radiotherapy. Outcome measures of the model were life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs per patient, and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: The base case model estimates that the loss of quality of life due to 
preoperative radiotherapy is outweighed by the gain in life expectancy. Life 
expectancy increases by 0.67 years; quality-adjusted life expectancy, by 0.39 
years; and costs, by $9,800 per patient. The corresponding cost-effectiveness 
ratio is $25,100 per quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity analyses indicate 
that the cost-effectiveness ratio remains acceptable under a wide range of 
assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Assuming that the reduced local recurrence rate does lead to a 
survival advantage, the cost-utility analysis estimates that the improved 
survival outweighs the impaired quality of life and the increased costs. We 
conclude that short-term preoperative radiotherapy in patients with rectal 
cancer undergoing TME is both effective and cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.04.198
PMID: 14665610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Clin Oncol. 2004 Jan 15;22(2):217-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2004.11.918. Epub
2003  Dec 9.

Economics of preoperative radiotherapy with total mesorectal excision: what can 
we learn from the Dutch experience?

Simunovic M, Gafni A, Levine M.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2004 Jan 15;22(2):244-53.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2004.11.918
PMID: 14665616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2003 Jul-Sep;49(3):293-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302003000300034. Epub 2003 Nov 5.

[Cholecystectomy in the elderly: early results of open versus laparoscopic 
approach].

[Article in Portuguese]

Régo RE(1), de Campos T, de Moricz A, Silva RA, Pacheco Júnior AM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirurgia da Faculdade de Ciências Médicas da Santa Casa de 
São Paulo, SP, Brasil. cir.pancreas@santacasasp.org.br

The rise of elderly population is due to the improvement of life expectancy. The 
biliary lithiasis is the most common condition requiring intra-abdominal 
surgery. Half of these patients sustain associated diseases and frequently 
develops acute and complicated forms of cholelithiasis. Therefore, 
cholecystectomy is indicated for patients with chronic symptomatic disease. 
During a long period open cholecystectomy has been practiced, with low 
complications and mortality rates. Videolaparoscopy has been recently proposed 
as an option in these cases, however, few studies compared its advantages over 
open cholecystectomy for elderly patients.
OBJECTIVE: To access the early results of the surgical treatment for 
cholelithiasis in the elderly submitted to an open or laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy.
METHODS: retrospective study with 246 patients > 65 years old, who underwent 
elective cholecystectomy through a subcostal incision (group I) or laparoscopic 
approach (group II). We employed Student's t test and Spearman's correlation for 
statistical analysis, considering p < 0,05 as significant.
RESULTS: A hundred and twenty patients were arranged in group I and 126 in group 
II. Associated diseases were present in 155 cases (63). There were no 
differences between the groups regarding both the distribution of comorbid 
conditions. Conversion was evaluated in 10 patients (8.3%). The mean operative 
time was 133 minutes in group I and 112 minutes in group II (p=0.001). The mean 
hospital stay in group I was 3,3 days and in group II was 3.2 days p=0.698. 
Thirteen patients in each group developed complications: group I (10.8%) and 
group II (10.3%) p=0,896. There was no statistis significance in complication 
rate related to gender, age, associated diseases and ASA when the both groups 
were compared. There were two deaths, both in group II, although the mortality 
rate was not statiscally significant between the groups (p=0.158).
CONCLUSION: Both open and laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be practiced in the 
elderly with low and similar rate of complications.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302003000300034
PMID: 14666355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2003 Jul-Sep;49(3):335-41. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302003000300041. Epub 2003 Nov 5.

[Medication errors: who is responsible?].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rosa MB(1), Perini E.

Author information:
(1)Fundação Hospitalar do Estado de Minas Gerais e na Universidade Federal de 
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil. mariobr@uai.com.br

New diagnostic and therapeutic technologies are used with growing frequency, 
improving the quality of medical assistance and increasing life expectancy. 
Health care, however, is becoming progressively more expensive and complex. 
Adverse events related to medical assistance, particularly errors, are becoming 
public, being debated and judged in courts. Given their training, health workers 
are not prepared to deal with errors, which are associated with shame, fear and 
punishment. The approach to errors in the health system is usually 
individualistic, considering such events as acts of insecurity performed by 
careless, non-motivated and ill-trained persons. The tendency is to hide errors 
when they occur, with the result that an important learning opportunity is lost. 
There is another way to deal with errors, a systemic view that has obtained 
positive results in sectors such as aviation, anesthesiology and unit-dose drug 
distribution systems. These systems have varied degrees of safety and should 
take into account human limitations when designed and applied. A change in 
paradigm is needed when dealing with drugs, as it is not enough for a drug to 
have quality assurance, but the complete process of drug use should be safe. 
Medication errors, avoidable by definition, are at present a serious public 
health issue, leading to loss of lives and significant financial losses. A 
systemic approach to medication errors may disclose failures in the process as a 
whole, and improvements can be implemented to reduce their occurrence.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302003000300041
PMID: 14666362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2003 Jul-Aug;26(4):340-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-003-0039-4.

Extracranial carotid artery stenting in surgically high-risk patients using the 
Carotid Wallstent endoprosthesis: midterm clinical and ultrasound follow-up 
results.

Maleux G(1), Bernaerts P, Thijs V, Vaninbroukx J, Daenens K, Fourneau I, 
Nevelsteen A.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals, Department of Interventional Radiology, Leuven, 
Belgium. geert.maleux@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility, safety and midterm 
outcome of elective implantation of the Carotid Wallstent in patients considered 
to be at high surgical risk. In a prospective study, 54 carotid artery stenoses 
in 51 patients were stented over a 24-month period. Three patients underwent 
bilateral carotid artery stenting. Institutional inclusion criteria for invasive 
treatment of carotid occlusive disease (carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery 
stenting) are patients presenting with a 70% or more symptomatic stenosis and 
those with an 80% or more asymptomatic stenosis having a life-expectancy of more 
than 1 year. All patients treated by carotid artery stenting were considered at 
high risk for carotid endarterectomy because of a hostile neck (17 
patients--31.5%) or because of severe comorbidities (37 patients--68.5%). No 
cerebral protection device was used. Of the 54 lesions, 33 (61.1%) were 
symptomatic and 21 (38.8%) were asymptomatic. Follow-up was performed by 
physical examination and by duplex ultrasonography at 1 month, 6 months, 1 year 
and 2 years after the procedure. All 54 lesions could be stented successfully 
without periprocedural stroke. Advert events during follow-up (mean 13.9 +/- 5.7 
months) were non-stroke-related death in 6 patients (11.1%), minor stroke in 4 
stented hemispheres (7.4%), transient ipsilateral facial pain in 1 patient 
(1.8%), infection of the stented surgical patch in 1 patient (1.8%) and 
asymptomatic instent restenosis in 4 patients (7.4%). The percutaneous 
implantation of the Carotid Wallstent, even without cerebral protection device, 
appears to be a safe procedure with acceptable clinical and ultrasonographic 
follow-up results in patients at high surgical risk. But some late adverse 
events such as ipsilateral recurrence of non-disabling (minor) stroke or instent 
restenosis still remain real challenging problems.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-003-0039-4
PMID: 14667115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Eur J Haematol. 2003 Nov;71(5):327-33. doi:
10.1034/j.1600-0609.2003.00108.x.

Bulky disease is the most important prognostic factor in Hodgkin lymphoma stage 
IIB.

Glimelius I(1), Molin D, Amini RM, Gustavsson A, Glimelius B, Enblad G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Radiology, and Clinical Immunology, Rudbeck 
Laboratory, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The aim of this study was to evaluate treatment results for Hodgkin lymphoma 
(HL) patients younger than 60 yr in stage IIB, treated according to the Swedish 
National Care Programme. The intention was also to identify specific subgroups 
depending on the number of negative prognostic factors the patients have, in 
order to optimise and differentiate future treatment. In total, 99 patients with 
HL stage IIB, diagnosed between 1985 and 1994, have been analysed. There were 47 
men and 52 women and the median age was 33 yr (range 17-59). Eighty-six patients 
presented with supradiaphragmatic disease and 13 with infradiaphragmatic. The HL 
specific and overall 10-yr survival was 73 and 65%, respectively. The 
HL-specific survival for patients in pathological stage IIB tended to be better, 
although not statistically significant than for clinical stage IIB, despite less 
chemotherapy (P = 0.1). The patients in stage IIB who were selected for 
laparotomy were, however, younger and with fewer negative prognostic factors. 
The only significant negative prognostic factor was bulky disease (P = 0.001). 
The following factors also tended to have a negative influence on the prognosis 
although not statistically significant: the International Prognostic Score, the 
number of involved lymph node stations, extranodal involvement and leucocyte 
count > 15 x 10(9)/L. In conclusion, we suggest that bulky disease should be 
taken into account when treating patients with stage IIB HL.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2003.00108.x
PMID: 14667195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Proc Biol Sci. 2003 Nov 7;270 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S189-91. doi: 
10.1098/rsbl.2003.0048.

Extremely short lifespan in the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri.

Valdesalici S(1), Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Associazione Italiana Killifish, Canossa 42026, Italy.

Evolutionary theories of senescence postulate that lifespan is determined by the 
age-dependent decrease in the effects of natural selection. Factors that 
influence survival and reproduction at early life stages have a larger impact on 
fitness than factors that influence later life stages. According to these views, 
selection for rapid sexual maturation and a steep age-dependent decrease in 
fitness drive the evolution of short lifespans. Here, we report on the survival 
trajectory of Nothobranchius furzeri (Pisces: Ciprinodontidae): a member of a 
group of annual species found in temporary bodies of water whose life expectancy 
in the wild is limited to a few months. We find that maximum survival of N. 
furzeri in the laboratory is less than 12 weeks. The temporal trajectory of 
survival shows an age-dependent increase in the mortality rate that is typical 
of organisms with defined lifespans. The lifespan of N. furzeri is exceptionally 
short for a vertebrate: owing to its small size and the possibility of 
propagation in captivity, N. furzeri could be used as a convenient model for 
ageing research.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2003.0048
PMCID: PMC1809958
PMID: 14667379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ann Thorac Surg. 2003 Dec;76(6):1782-8. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)01243-8.

Sleeve lobectomy or pneumonectomy: optimal management strategy using decision 
analysis techniques.

Ferguson MK(1), Lehman AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA. mferguso@surgery.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: The choice between sleeve lobectomy and pneumonectomy is 
controversial for patients with early-stage lung cancer and who have acceptable 
lung function.
METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of results of sleeve lobectomy and 
pneumonectomy published in English from 1990 to 2003. A decision model was 
developed with 5-year survival, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and cost 
effectiveness as the outcomes, and sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The model favored sleeve lobectomy (3.5 percentage point survival 
advantage) when the reward was 5-year survival; the results were influenced 
primarily by the 5-year survival rates for patients who did not develop 
recurrent cancer. Sleeve lobectomy was strongly favored when the reward was QALY 
(1.53 QALY advantage). Sleeve lobectomy was more cost effective than 
pneumonectomy, and had an incremental cost effectiveness ratio of $1,300/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with anatomically appropriate early-stage lung cancer, 
sleeve lobectomy offers better long-term survival and quality of life than does 
pneumonectomy and is more cost effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(03)01243-8
PMID: 14667584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Med Care. 2003 Dec;41(12):1382-95. doi: 10.1097/01.MLR.0000100584.18276.C4.

Transitioning the second-generation antihistamines to over-the-counter status: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Sullivan PW(1), Follin SL, Nichol MB.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research Program, Department of Clinical Pharmacy, 
University of Colorado School of Pharmacy, Denver, Colorado 80262, USA. 
Patrick.Sullivan@UCHSC.edu

BACKGROUND: A U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory committee deemed the 
second-generation antihistamines (SGA) safe for over-the-counter use against the 
preliminary opposition of the manufacturers. As a result, loratadine is now 
available over-the-counter. First-generation antihistamines (FGA) are associated 
with an increased risk of unintentional injuries, fatalities, and reduced 
productivity. Access to SGA over-the-counter could result in decreased use of 
FGA, thereby reducing deleterious outcomes. The societal impact of transitioning 
this class of medications from prescription to over-the-counter status has 
important policy implications.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of transitioning SGA to 
over-the-counter status from a societal perspective.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A simulation model of the decision to transition SGA to 
over-the-counter status was compared with retaining prescription-only status for 
a hypothetical cohort of individuals with allergic rhinitis in the United 
States. Estimates of costs and effectiveness were obtained from the medical 
literature and national surveys. Sensitivity analysis was performed using a 
second-order Monte Carlo simulation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted, quality-adjusted life-years saved as a result 
of amelioration of allergic rhinitis symptoms and avoidance of motor vehicle, 
occupational, public and home injuries and fatalities; discounted direct and 
indirect costs.
RESULTS: Availability of SGA over-the-counter was associated with annual savings 
of 4 billion dollars (2.4-5.3 billion dollars) or 100 dollars (64-137 dollars) 
per allergic rhinitis sufferer and 135,061 time-discounted quality-adjusted life 
years (84,913-191,802). The sensitivity analysis provides evidence in support of 
these results.
CONCLUSION: Making SGA available over-the-counter is both cost-saving and more 
effective for society, largely as a result of reduced adverse outcomes 
associated with FGA-induced sedation. Further study is needed to determine the 
differential impact on specific vulnerable populations.

DOI: 10.1097/01.MLR.0000100584.18276.C4
PMID: 14668671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Urologe A. 2003 Dec;42(12):1556-63. doi: 10.1007/s00120-003-0456-7.

[Diabetes mellitus and bladder function. What should be considered?].

[Article in German]

Hampel C(1), Gillitzer R, Pahernik S, Melchior S, Thüroff JW.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz. 
hampel@urologie.klinik.uni-mainz.de

Increasing prevalence of diabetes mellitus and rising patient life expectancy 
are causing an accumulation of urologic late complications-despite or due to 
steadily improving medical health care. The prevalence of diabetic cystopathy 
(impaired bladder sensation, increased bladder capacity, sometimes accompanied 
by voiding difficulties and residual urine) is 25% in non-insulin-dependent 
diabetics and 48% in insulin-dependent diabetics. Autonomic and peripheral 
neuropathy lead to detrusor hyposensitivity, and chronic overstretching of the 
bladder causes myogenic detrusor hypocontractility. Since diabetic cystopathy 
often develops insidiously and asymptomatically, prevention of secondary 
complications such as recurrent urinary tract infections, vesicorenal reflux, 
nephrolithiasis, and pyelonephritis requires the urologist's full attention as 
well as early and repeated urodynamic diagnostics. Comorbidities can lead to a 
variety of urodynamic findings. Therapeutic options are generally conservative 
(timed voiding, micturition training, CIC, pharmacotherapy) and should be part 
of an integrated interdisciplinary health care approach since undiscovered 
complications involving non-urologic organ systems create a higher long-term 
socioeconomic burden than preventive support provided by other specialists.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-003-0456-7
PMID: 14668981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Radiologe. 2003 Dec;43(12):1103-8. doi: 10.1007/s00117-003-0987-3.

[Thoracic findings in pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in German]

Wunsch R(1), Wunsch C.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Radiologie, Vestische Kinder- und Jugendklinik, Universität 
Witten/Herdecke, Datteln. R.Wunsch@kinderklinik-datteln.de

Cystic fibrosis is the most common autosomal recessive metabolic disease in 
Europe with an incidence of 1:2500. The severity of the lung disease is the most 
important factor of morbidity and mortality in CF-patients. Because of the 
better diagnostic and therapeutic modalities life expectancy has increased 
significantly. The underlying pathology is a defect of chromosome 7, which 
encodes the regulation of the fluid balance across the cell membrane which 
effects chloride as well as sodium. The exocrine glands produce a viscous mucus 
which obstructs the airways and promotes infections. The result is the 
destruction of lung parenchyma. In daily routine, chest x-ray is still the most 
important radiological tool, although computed tomography depicts changes in 
morphology earlier and more exactly. Recent research studies show that MRI 
has-because of its additional functional options-interesting aspects for the 
future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-003-0987-3
PMID: 14668999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. World J Gastroenterol. 2003 Dec;9(12):2772-5. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v9.i12.2772.

Effect of complex amino acid imbalance on growth of tumor in tumor-bearing rats.

He YC(1), Wang YH, Cao J, Chen JW, Pan DY, Zhou YK.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, Wuhan 
430071, Hubei Province, China. w030508h@public.wh.hb.cn

AIM: To investigate the effect of complex amino acid imbalance on the growth of 
tumor in tumor-bearing (TB) rats.
METHODS: Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats underwent jejunostomy for nutritional support. 
A suspension of Walker-256 carcinosarcoma cells was subcutaneously inoculated. 
TB rats were randomly divided into groups A, B, C and D according to the formula 
of amino acids in enteral nutritional solutions, respectively. TB rats received 
jejunal feedings supplemented with balanced amino acids (group A), 
methionine-depleted amino acids (group B), valine-depleted amino acids (group C) 
and methionine- and valine-depleted complex amino acid imbalance (group D) for 
10 days. Tumor volume, inhibitory rates of tumor, cell cycle and life span of TB 
rats were investigated.
RESULTS: The G0/G1 ratio of tumor cells in group D (80.5 +/- 9.0)% was higher 
than that in groups A, B and C which was 67.0 +/- 5.1%, 78.9 +/- 8.5%, 69.2 +/- 
6.2%, respectively (P<0.05). The ratio of S/G2M and PI in group D were lower 
than those in groups A, B and C. The inhibitory rate of tumor in groups B, C and 
D was 37.2%, 33.3% and 43.9%, respectively (P<0.05). The life span of TB rats in 
group D was significantly longer than that in groups B, C, and A.
CONCLUSION: Methionine/valine-depleted amino acid imbalance can inhibit tumor 
growth. Complex amino acids of methionine and valine depleted imbalance have 
stronger inhibitory effects on tumor growth.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v9.i12.2772
PMCID: PMC4612050
PMID: 14669331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J R Soc Promot Health. 2003 Nov;123(4):204-9. doi:
10.1177/146642400312300408.

Background influences on dietary choice in early old age.

Blane D(1), Abraham L, Gunnell D, Maynard M, Ness A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Science and Medicine, Imperial College London, Charing 
Cross Campus, St Dunstan's Road, London WG 8RP, United Kingdom. 
d.blane@imperial.ac.uk

The contemporary increase in life expectancy is opening up a new stage in the 
Life course--early old age. Diet during early old age makes an important 
contribution to disease prevention, the management of established disease and 
postponing the onset of physical dependency. Despite its importance, few 
specifically medical, dietary interventions have been designed for this age 
group. The presently reported study aims to supply background information for 
such an endeavour. Qualitative interviews have been conducted with people in 
early old age, sampled purposively from members of a longitudinal study cohort. 
A number of background influences on the dietary choices of the interviewees 
have been identified. Some of these influences are specific to the present 
generation of people in early old age, such as eating in NAAFI canteens during 
National Service. However, the more general categories of which they are a part 
will have enduring usefulness. The findings are discussed in relation to: future 
dietary advice; the potential for interventions in primary care; enhancing the 
policy of free school fruit and research on the next age cohort to enter early 
old age.

DOI: 10.1177/146642400312300408
PMID: 14669494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 2003 Jul-Sep;43(3):397-425.

[The physician/population ratio in Switzerland: the impact of its regional 
variation on mortality, health expenditures and user's satisfaction].

[Article in French]

Crivelli L(1), Domenighetti G.

Author information:
(1)Institut MECOP, Université de la Suisse Italienne, Lugano, Suisse.

An opinion survey conducted in 1997 in the various Swiss "cantons" produced the 
following findings: 1. The satisfaction of the population concerning the 
provision of ambulatory care does not increase when the physician/population 
ratio increases. It is not clear whether a decrease of "oversupply" gives raise, 
at least in the short term, to a feeling of dissatisfaction. 2. The perception 
of signs of shortened supply does not increase when the physician/population 
ratio decreases. 3. When the cantons are grouped by level of 
physician/population ratio, the different groups show nearly the same health 
performance as measured by the rate of avoidable mortality. 4. The number of 
consultations per capita increases clearly in the "cantons" having high 
physician/population ratios. Increased ratios have clearly an impact on health 
expenditures.

PMID: 14669639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2003 Nov;12(9):921-30. doi: 
10.1089/154099903770948159.

Factors associated with arm swelling after breast cancer surgery.

Geller BM(1), Vacek PM, O'Brien P, Secker-Walker RH.

Author information:
(1)Health Promotion Research, University of Vermont, 1 South Prospect Street, 
Burlington, VT 05401-3444, USA. berta.geller@uvm.edu

PURPOSE: As life expectancy improves for women with breast cancer, more women 
will be living with symptoms of lymphedema. This study reports the incidence of 
arm or hand swelling and associated risk factors in women with invasive breast 
cancer following surgery.
METHODS: Data were obtained from baseline and follow-up interviews of women with 
invasive breast cancer (n = 145), and mammography and pathology records. The 
Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the probability of developing arm or 
hand swelling over time. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression 
analyses were conducted to identify risk factors for arm or hand swelling.
RESULTS: Of women in this study, 38% self-reported arm or hand swelling. There 
was a significantly increased risk of arm swelling if women were under 50 years 
of age, had axillary node dissection, received chemotherapy, worked outside the 
home, and had a high household income. There was no association of body weight 
with swelling. A significantly decreased risk of arm swelling was found in women 
who were on treatment for high blood pressure. After adjustment for nodal 
dissection, only age had a significant independent effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights two important areas of future research that 
could reduce the incidence of lymphedema. There is a need to better understand 
the role that treatment for high blood pressure may play in protecting women 
from arm edema. Second, the potential effect of weight as a modifiable 
lymphedema risk factor needs to be studied in more detail in light of the 
conflicting results of different studies.

DOI: 10.1089/154099903770948159
PMID: 14670172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Gac Sanit. 2003 Nov-Dec;17(6):466-73. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(03)71793-2.

[Trends in mortality and years of life lost related to alcohol in the Canary 
Islands, Spain [1980-1998]].

[Article in Spanish]

Bello LM(1), Saavedra P, Serra L.

Author information:
(1)Dirección General de Salud Pública del Gobierno de Canarias. Las Palmas de 
Gran Canaria. Spain. lbelluj@gobiernodecanarias.org

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article was to describe death rates and years of life 
lost prematurely (YLLP) in relation to alcohol consumption in the Canary 
Islands. The study covered the period between 1980 and 1998.
METHODS: Deaths from 1980 to 1998 were classified by age, sex, and cause using 
data obtained from the National Institute of Statistics (Natural Changes in the 
Population). The number of alcohol-related deaths was calculated by year, sex, 
and age group using the attributable population fraction as proposed by the 
Centers for Disease Control (USA). The YLLP attributed to alcohol consumption 
were calculated for each cause of death by multiplying deaths by the 
attributable population fraction in 5-yearly age groups for both sexes (average 
span of five years), up to the age of 65 years.
RESULTS: Between 1980 and 1998, the number of alcohol-related deaths was 12,614, 
averaging 6.4% per year and with a male-to-female ratio of approximately 2:1. 
The main causes of death and YLLP in both men and women were malignant 
neoplasms, diseases of the digestive system, and alcohol-related accidents, 
although accidents were by far the main cause producing 50.6% of alcohol-related 
YLLP in men and 55.5% in women. Over the study period, the incidence of 
cirrhosis of the liver and that of other chronic liver diseases (CIE 571) 
decreased in men whilst remaining stable in women.
CONCLUSIONS: The finding that the percentage of alcohol-related deaths and 
cirrhosis of the liver remained high in the Islas Canarias between 1980 and 1998 
highlights the need for educational strategies on the effects of alcohol, 
together with policies designed to reduce its consumption, particularly among 
the young.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(03)71793-2
PMID: 14670253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Dec;88(12):5680-8. doi:
10.1210/jc.2003-030123.

CYP21 genotype, adult height, and pubertal development in 55 patients treated 
for 21-hydroxylase deficiency.

Balsamo A(1), Cicognani A, Baldazzi L, Barbaro M, Baronio F, Gennari M, Bal M, 
Cassio A, Kontaxaki K, Cacciari E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Bologna and S Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, 40138 Bologna, Italy. antonio.balsano@unibo.it

Erratum in
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004 Nov;89(11):5409.

In a retrospective study we evaluated long-term growth, pubertal developmental 
patterns to final height (FH), and medication in 55 patients (35 females) 
affected by 21-hydroxylase deficiency. The patients were classified into 3 
groups according to predicted mutation severity: group A (11 women and 9 men), 
homozygous or compound heterozygous for null or In2 splice mutations [residual 
enzymatic activity (RA), <1%]; group B (11 women and 4 men), homozygous for 
I172N or R341P or R426H mutations (RA, approximately 2-3%) or compound 
heterozygous with any of the group A or B mutations; and group C (13 women and 7 
men), homozygous for P30L or V281L or P453S mutations (RA, >30%) or compound 
heterozygous with any of the group A, B, or C mutations. Three patients showed 
unclassifiable genotypes. FH was similar in the female groups, whereas male 
patients in group B were shorter than males in groups A and C. Fifty-five 
percent of patients in group A, 33% in group B, and 40% in group C reached an FH 
within 0.5 SD of target height. Four of the 7 patients diagnosed via neonatal 
screening achieved an FH equal to or above the target height. In the entire 
group, early diagnosis (<1 yr) improved height outcome. Early diagnosed CAH 
patients who received lower cortisol equivalent doses during the first year of 
life reached a better FH. Our results underline the importance of 
mineralocorticoid therapy, as CAH subjects in groups A and B who did not receive 
this treatment showed reduced FH. Early diagnosis, the use of more physiological 
cortisol equivalent dosages during the first year of life, and the extension of 
mineralocorticoid therapy to all classical patients are shown to improve the 
auxological outcome. Genotypic analysis helped to interpret the height results 
of our cases and prospectively may represent a useful tool for improving the 
therapeutic choice and the height outcome.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2003-030123
PMID: 14671153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Digestion. 2003;68(2-3):153-60. doi: 10.1159/000075524. Epub 2003 Dec 10.

Validation of a reliable instrument (QUOTE-IBD) for assessing the quality of 
health care in Greek patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Pallis AG(1), Vlachonikolis IG, Mouzas IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, 
Greece.

Given the early onset, the chronic and recurrent nature of their disease and 
their normal life expectancy, patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) may 
need considerable health care. The purpose of this study is to validate the 
Greek translation of the QUOTE-IBD questionnaire (GR-QUOTE-IBD). For that 
purpose we assessed its construct validity, and reliability. Fifty patients (33 
ulcerative colitis, 17 Crohn's disease) completed the GR-QUOTE-IBD and 
visual-analogue scales (VAS) for the patients' evaluation of the quality of 
separate care dimensions, and of the total care. A subgroup of 33 patients (64%) 
completed the GR-QUOTE-IBD for a second time. Quality of life was assessed by 
the short version of the IBDQ. Clinical activity was assessed by Harvey-Bradshaw 
index and Colitis Activity Index. Correlations among all care dimensions and VAS 
were positive and highly significant (p<0.001). The total care and all eight 
dimensional care scores (quality impact and importance) had no significant 
differences between the baseline and the follow-up visit. Similarly, the 
correlation coefficients between the scores of the two occasions were all 
positive (close to one) and highly significant (p<0.001). The GR-QUOTE-IBD 
proved to be a valid and reliable instrument, applicable in international 
clinical studies.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000075524
PMID: 14671422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. J HIV Ther. 2003 Nov;8(4):89-95.

Issues in diagnostic testing and monitoring in HIV/viral hepatitis co-infection.

Dervisevic S(1), Pillay D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, Royal Free and University College Medical School, 46 
Cleveland Street, London W1T 4JF, UK.

Co-infection with HIV and hepatitis B (HBV)/ hepatitis C virus (HCV) occurs 
commonly due to similar routes of transmission. Both hepatotropic viruses can 
cause a severe clinical picture in HIV-infected individuals with rapid 
progression of liver disease, cirrhosis and increased mortality. Fortunately, 
treatment options of HBV and HCV are becoming well established and may have a 
clinical impact in slowing disease progression. This, coupled with the fact that 
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has increased the life expectancy 
of HIV-infected patients stresses the importance of management of concurrent 
illnesses such as HBV and HCV infection, taking into consideration 
pharmacokinetic interaction with components of HAART regimens.

PMID: 14671506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Acta Med Austriaca. 2003;30(3):69-71.

[Gender differences in cardiology].

[Article in German]

Hochleitner M(1), Bader A.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Innere Medizin, Ludwig Boltzmann Institut für Kardiologische 
Geschlechterforschung, Innsbruck. margarethe.hochleitner@uibk.ac.at

Frequent reports of gender differences in cardiology prompted us to study the 
cardiological situation in Tyrol, Austria, from 1995 to 2000. Mortality 
statistics for heart deaths 1995: women 1008 (53.5%), men 875 (46.5%); 2000: 
women 1104 (58.2%), men 792 (41.8%). Coronary heart deaths 1995: women 572 
(50.0%), men 571 (50.0%); 2000: women 634 (54.4%), men 531 (45.6%). Angiograms 
1995: women 332 (33.9%), men 646 (66.1%); 2000: women 688 (32.5%), men 1429 
(67.5%). Bypass surgery 1995: women 54 (33.0%), men 156 (67.0%); 2000: women 42 
(27.5%), men 157 (72.5%). Heart deaths 1995-2000: women +9.5%, men -9.5%; 
coronary heart deaths 1995-2000: women +10.8%, men -7.0%. By (welcome) contrast, 
coronary angiograms 1995-2000: women +107.2%, men +121.2%. Bypass operations 
1995-2000: women -22.2%, men +0.6%. Life expectancy 1995-2000: women +0.6%, men 
+0.6%. Patient age at heart death 1995-2000: women +1.8%, men +2.5%. In 
aggregate, we see that for decades more women than men have died a heart death, 
but that cardiac mortalities remain a typically "male bastion" with persistent 
gender differences in access to clinical cardiology. The worsening trend for 
women begs for awareness programs and corresponding preventive measures.

PMID: 14671822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Med Decis Making. 2003 Nov-Dec;23(6):511-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X03258431.

Variations in risk attitude across race, gender, and education.

Rosen AB(1), Tsai JS, Downs SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA. arosen@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Significant disparities in health care utilization exist across 
gender and race. Little is known about the patient-specific factors that may 
contribute to this variation. This study examined variations in risk attitude 
across major sociodemographic groups.
METHODS: A survey elicited utility measures for health states under 
risk-insensitive and risk-sensitive conditions (time tradeoff and standard 
gamble methods, respectively). Risk attitude was modeled assuming constant 
proportional risk posture, thus the utility function used was a power function. 
A multivariable linear regression model was used to examine the relationship 
between risk attitude and sociodemographic factors.
RESULTS: Of the 62 study subjects, the mean age was 47.6 years, 47% were female, 
and 33% were African American. Overall, 37% of respondents were decidedly risk 
averse, 37% moderately risk averse, 15% moderately risk seeking, and 11% 
decidedly risk seeking. Significant predictors of increasing risk aversion in 
multivariate modeling were white race (P < 0.01) and lower education (P < 0.05). 
Women also tended to be more risk averse (P = 0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: This study found significant differences in risk attitude across 
race and educational status, with a smaller difference across gender. Further 
research is needed to validate these findings and clarify their contribution to 
racial and gender variations in health care utilization and their future role in 
decision and cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X03258431
PMID: 14672111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
